DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS MEN
March 1, 2012
Janko Tipsarevic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DJOKOVIC/J. Tipsarevic
  6‑1, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Your reaction to tonight and your performance?   How do you feel you played?
JANKO TIPSAREVIC:   First set obviously not good enough.   My serve was not present for the first 30 minutes of the match.
Second set I kind of played better.   Survived a couple tough games.   Had a couple of small chances like two games Love‑30 or so. 
But anyway, he was more dominant on his serve than I was on mine.   I played a good tiebreak.   I made an opportunity for myself.   For no particular reason, I decided to risk the second serve instead of just playing the point, which I obviously regret right now.
I don't know if I would've won, but I felt I should've won the second set. 

Q.   How difficult is it to be always in the shadow, especially at home since you come from the same team, same country? 
JANKO TIPSAREVIC:   Well, being No. 9 in the world, I don't feel I am in the shadow.   It's obviously nice have to Novak as a part of my life, because he has been winning everything that a man can win.
But I never felt that I am in anybody's shadow.

Q.   You just mentioned you took a chance with the second serve.   You were serving really well in the set.   What chance were you really trying to take here? 
JANKO TIPSAREVIC:   I don't understand the question.   I decided to risk the second serve because he was always stepping in and trying to attack my second serve. 
So what was the question? 

Q.   What were you trying to do with the second serve?
JANKO TIPSAREVIC:   I was trying to risk and make a deep second serve.   That's why I made a mistake.

Q.   Both times?   There was two double faults in the tiebreak?
JANKO TIPSAREVIC:   First one was just a normal double fault, but the one on the set point, I remember that one.   I wanted to serve a deep volley second serve, you know, because he was always stepping in and putting so much pressure on my second serve. 
I should have remembered that even though I'm feeling nervous, he is also feeling nervous because he is a set point down.   I'm at least a set point up. 
So should have made him play honest that one.

Q.   The way you played in the second set, you can take that confidence to Indian Wells and Miami?
JANKO TIPSAREVIC:   Well, I hope so.   Obviously it's disappointing not win a set today, especially because of the way I lost it. 
But I've been playing well.   You know, I didn't make any extraordinary results since the beginning of the year, but pretty consistent, pretty solid.   Two major events are coming up, and I hope I can play good there? 

Q.   How difficult is it to face Nole, Novak, seeing as he's your friend?   Was that part of reason why you began slowly in the first set?
JANKO TIPSAREVIC:   No.   We played numerous times; I think two times I even won the first set.   So it was just a bad and slow start. 
You know, the way also I lost those two service games, I was 30‑Love up and then four straight points in a row.
Next game, 40‑15 up, four straight points in a row.   Against the world No. 1, you are going to pay the price of losing the set like that. 
With these guys like Novak, you focus ‑‑ I mean, I was playing good tennis in the second set and it was 7‑6; it was really close.
So against these guys your level has to be on top all the time.   They don't give you many chances.   If they do, you better take them.

Q.   Something more personal about the tattoo? 
JANKO TIPSAREVIC:   No tattoo questions.

Q.   When you said you were nervous on the set point, what was that?   Sweaty hands?   You couldn't think right? 
JANKO TIPSAREVIC:   No.   Obviously it's like little butterflies in the stomach having the set point on 6‑5 in the tiebreak after a one hour set. 
It's not only against Novak, you know.   It would have happened against anyone.   Normally you're trying your best on this point.
It's just that I tried too much for no reason. 

Q.   He's No. 1 who you know the best.   There are few players who would know him more than you do.   Do you think there is some secret that he only unleashes on the court? 
JANKO TIPSAREVIC:   I don't understand the question again.   Secrets like what? 

Q.   Of game play. 
JANKO TIPSAREVIC:   What do you mean, when I practice with him?   Obviously he's a different player on the match.   He feels when he should hold back and he feels when he should attack.   He's not playing same on practice as he is on matches, if that was the answer you were looking for. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT