DAVIS CUP BY BNP PARIBAS WORLD GROUP FINAL: FRANCE v SERBIA
December 3, 2010
Janko Tipsarevic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







G. MONFILS/J. Tipsarevic
  6-1, 7-6, 6-0

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Janko, can you explain how tense you seemed to be? Do you have an explanation about the bad beginning, the first two double-faults?
 JANKO TIPSAREVIC: This never happened to me in my life. Obviously, there was tension on the beginning, but I didn't lose this match because I was tense. I lost because Gael Monfils was the better player than me today. 
 It was, honestly to say, a disappointing performance for myself. I didn't play on my highest level. The problem was that I was missing matches. My last competitive match that I played was three, four weeks ago against Federer in Basel. 
 I had energy to play, but I didn't execute good enough, you know. Gael was moving like a cat on the court, really good, covering everything. Just every time it seems that I was missing one or two balls to finish the point. 
 Obviously, if I would have won the second set, I think it would be a different story. But then again, I mean, all congratulations to Gael. He played like a true champion today. 

 Q. During the second set you seemed to be very upset in the beginning of the tiebreak. Do you think you were right or it was just to be helped by the atmosphere or... 
 JANKO TIPSAREVIC: I think honestly was a little bit of both. I was really upset because I feel that the referee completely choked. He was afraid of the supervisor or whatever. Maybe the call didn't upset me by hitting the ball, but clearly the referee said 'out' before I touched the ball. So it was a clear, clear mistake. 
 I'm not saying the match would be different or whatever. I think I didn't miss the next forehand because of it. Obviously, I returned in the tiebreak. It was 4-All. I had chances to close up and finish the tiebreak, but I didn't. 
 But it was just a horrible, horrible call by the referee who was completely scared and afraid because, I don't know, maybe the Serbian fans were too loud or something. 

 Q. Is it a game that destroys you or are you still in this because it's a very hard loss but you're still in the game? 
 JANKO TIPSAREVIC: Honestly, it's a tough loss. But you would need to ask the Davis Cup captain. I am still ready. And the most important thing is that I'm fit enough to play the decisive match in case this happens, you know. 
 It's a big experience just to have a match because, you know, I feel that a lot of points today I didn't finish because I was not positioning and moving right, and I was just missing this match feeling. 
 And having a guy like Gael, well, he doesn't attack that much, but he doesn't give you a lot of unforced errors. Just having this we say like a worm in your head, that you have to win by yourself every point, it was difficult for me today. 
 But generally I would like to think that, yes, I'm still in the combination for the last day. 

 Q. Janko, we speak a lot in French about the big pressure for the French team in the arena. Today do you feel like a lot of pressure, because it's a big luck to have the final of the Davis Cup at home. Do you feel that? 
 JANKO TIPSAREVIC: Do you mean on my side? 

 Q. Yes. We saw that at the beginning of the game. 
 JANKO TIPSAREVIC: I know like at the last moment the racquet that I start with was not the one that I originally wanted to play. But, you know, I mean, first game, it shows that I was nervous. But generally it's really a long match. You know, best-of-five sets, anything can happen. 
 It gave I think Gael the mental edge in the beginning that he knows that also I am nervous, you know. I mean, but when you talk about the crowd, I really feel the crowd was fair. They were whistling sometimes in between serves. This is the Davis Cup finals. It wasn't anything drastic or dramatic. 
 So, you know, I was feeling the pressure. But then again, on the other hand, I was the underdog in this match. Even though we were playing at home, everybody was expecting Gael to win, which eventually happened. 
 As I said, I feel disappointed because the way it ended. But, you know, I think Novak has a break, so we'll see what happens at the end of that match. 

 Q. Do you want to come back Sunday? 
 JANKO TIPSAREVIC: Do I want to come back Sunday? Yes, I do. But that's probably the question for the Davis Cup captain. 
 I'm fit enough to play. I have one match behind me. I managed to deal with similar situations in my career. So, yes, I would be ready to play the decisive match if it's needed. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT