DAVIS CUP BY BNP PARIBAS WORLD GROUP FINAL: FRANCE v SERBIA
November 30, 2010
Novak Djokovic
Bogdan Obradovic
Janko Tipsarevic
Viktor Troicki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Captain, if you can explain to us this surface. Maybe the French tell us they were waiting for a more slower surface. Can you explain to us more about that.   
 CAPTAIN OBRADOVIC: Hello, to everyone.   
 Well, the surface is, of course, prepared for my team. They like to play on this surface. You already know that we beat a couple of teams on this surface, especially Croatia and against the Czech Republic.   
 That's the only reason we make the decision to play on this surface.   
  
  Q. Novak, is it easy to make the transition, very short transition, from the Masters to the Davis Cup? Are you already in the event?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, it's not the situation that I had after US Open, which was much more difficult to get used to, you know, traveling from States, arriving Wednesday.   
 This time I came here on Sunday, so I had these two days to rest a little bit. Now I'm ready to practice and give my best throughout the weekend.   
  
  Q. Viktor, can you explain why you didn't play Bercy? Was it just to be ready for the Davis Cup or...   
 VIKTOR TROICKI: Yes, it was. I took a couple of days after Basel off. I relaxed for a few days, then started preparation for Davis Cup here in Belgrade.   
 I think it was the right choice. Now I feel fresh and ready.   
  
  Q. Captain, what do you expect from the French side for the first singles? Is it Llodra or Simon in your mind?   
 CAPTAIN OBRADOVIC: It's going to be a French player. That's what Nenad said (laughter).   
 We are focused on our team, so we are going to be prepared hopefully in the next three days. That's our focus.   
 We are going to play against the French players. They are great players. So it's a decision of Guy Forget who is going to play the first day. But we are going to be ready, for sure.   
  
  Q. Novak, do you think the crowd in the stadium can be the difference this weekend?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Well, I don't think that it's going to be a huge difference from any other Davis Cup ties that we played at home. We always had a big support.   
 But there is going to be a slight difference because of the occasion. It's the first time that we are playing Davis Cup final at home in the history of this sport in our country. You can feel the excitement and the interest of the people to come and cheer, you know, their tennis players.   
 It's going to be, well, crucial for us to have big support because it's very unpredictable what's going to happen in the matches because I think they have a very strong team. But the support of the crowd can actually play a key role in this match.   
  
  Q. Janko, what is better, the honeymoon or a win in Davis Cup?   
 JANKO TIPSAREVIC: Well, now I'm under pressure. I have to say Davis Cup in front of all you guys. But the truth is somewhere in the middle. This is one of the reasons why I also skipped Paris, like Viktor, to have my honeymoon and have my rest in time to be hundred percent ready for Davis Cup.   
 So at this point now, if you ask me, since honeymoon is in the past, winning Davis Cup is more important.   
  
  Q. Captain, did you watch the victory of Llodra against Novak in Bercy?   
 CAPTAIN OBRADOVIC: Yes, I watched that match. But that was a special match on a special surface. The conditions are completely different here.   
 We will see. Still we don't know who is going to play. So we will see in a couple of days.   
  
  Q. Novak, did you watch the match?   
 NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Did I watch that match? I kind of watched the ball pass me, yeah (laughter).   
 Well, Llodra was playing I think tournament of the year there for him. He was playing great tennis. Surface was the most suitable to his game. He was serving well. He was using the slice. It was super fast. I think I never played on a faster surface except grass in the tennis.   
 As Bogdan said, it's going to be a much different surface here, much different conditions, occasion. You know, I don't mind if I play him, to be honest. I played him on the slower surface two years ago. I won in Miami. There is no secrets between each other's game.   
 Whoever I play, I'm going to be ready.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT