ROLAND GARROS
May 23, 2016
Janko Tipsarevic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








M. RAONIC/J. Tipsarevic
6-3, 6-2, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.
Q. Can you just say how you feel about the match?
JANKO TIPSAREVIC: I don't feel the match was too exciting until the very end of the third set.  Milos was having the match under control, having an early break in all three sets.  His focus dropped a little bit as he was serving for the match in the third set.  I kind of used that.
I feel I was a better player in the last few games of match and in the tiebreak.  You can really see in that occasion I am missing match play, that I was off the court for two years and for too long.  I wasn't able to close out the third set.  That doesn't mean that I would have won, but I really felt that I was playing better than him in the end of the third set.
It's just that I missed I think in the tiebreak three or four shots which I shouldn't have missed.  Like an overhead, backhand two meters from the net, easy forehand, which, if those balls would go in, I would have won.
He improved tremendously in defense, and last time I played him -- every time except this time we play close matches, but I know his defense was his main problem.  But now, really, if he's on the ball he's not giving away too many points.  You really need to play an extra shot for him to miss or to bring him in.
Q. First time you lost your serve was sort of symbolic.  You had huge, huge long rally and you win it, and then you lose four points in a row.
JANKO TIPSAREVIC: That's exactly what I was talking about a second ago, that I was missing this match focus, you know, that I'm obviously trying.  But, you know, being injured for two years has taken its toll in terms of match concentration.  You know, winning a huge rally, a big point, doesn't mean anything if you make three and four unforced errors after that.
Unfortunately that's not something you can get better at in practice.  You just need to play matches and deal with these kind of situations on court.
Q. Physically you're okay?
JANKO TIPSAREVIC: I am pain-free.  I don't feel I'm completely fit, because even this small kind of preseason, which I had for this clay court swing, wasn't as I would like it to be, because it was more about staying pain-free than really focusing on getting fit and 100% ready for the clay court swing.
But, you know, if I think that four months ago I was in a hospital, you know, having surgery, I'm happy where I am now.
Q. Your plans for the immediate future?
JANKO TIPSAREVIC: I am scheduled to play 125,000 challenger next week, which is the second week of French.  And then we haven't decided yet which grass court tournaments am I definitely going to play.
I will play Queen's and Wimbledon, and then after that -- before that, there is a chance I play Stuttgart or something else.  We will see how my body is after the grass court season and then make schedule for the rest of the year.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT