AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 18, 2013
Janko Tipsarevic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. TIPSAREVIC/J. Benneteau
  3‑6, 6‑4, 2‑6, 6‑4, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   What is the camera for?  
JANKO TIPSAREVIC:   This?   Is actually Eurosport.   It's a blog that I do.   I just videotape (beep) during the day and I post it.   
   
 Q.   I wanted to know if you feel like these long matches are actually an advantage for you.   Seems like you're playing a lot of them at the moment.   
JANKO TIPSAREVIC:   How do you see that as an advantage?   
   
 Q.   Maybe you're really fit at the moment, so...   
JANKO TIPSAREVIC:   Uh‑huh, okay.   Well, thank you for saying that.   Yeah, I am pretty fit at the moment, but these matches are actually not helping me.   
If I'm really wanting to go deep into the tournament, potentially playing Nicolas Almagro on the heat, my legs are going to feel the five‑set matches which I played in the last two rounds.   
I'm so happy I'm in the second week.   It's the first time in my career that I'm able to be in the second week of the Australian Open and I'm really thrilled for that.   
But to answer your question, no, they do not help me at all.   
   
 Q.   Do you train specifically for the heat or is it mainly stamina for five sets?  
JANKO TIPSAREVIC:   You know, we did pre‑season in Doha, Qatar, where it was hot, but not ridiculously hot.   The weather in Australia, I have to say it's crazy.   You don't know what are you going to get.   I mean, three days ago it was really cold when I played Latsko.   Two days ago it was like 70 degrees Celsius on the court.   
Today was beautiful, but it was really, really windy.   Who knows what's going to happen tomorrow.   Probably we'll have rain and we're going to end up playing indoors.   
You really need to adjust on a day‑to‑day basis to this Grand Slam.   
   
 Q.   I'm not sure if you saw today, but Lance Armstrong admitted to playing performance‑enhancing drugs.   I was wondering if you thought tennis had a vigorous enough policy on anti‑doping?  
JANKO TIPSAREVIC:   You know what, you're probably asking the wrong guy.   You know, actually came to Kenya to test me.   I wasn't going to Kenya to hide from anti‑doping.   I was actually doing my pre‑season there.   
One morning a person was waking me up.   I was so shocked and afraid somebody was like robbing us.   I wasn't sure.   
But I think it's not cool what he did, cheating the sport and cheating so many people in the sport and so many people around him, believing that what he did actually did it on a clean and regular way.   So that's really not cool what he did.   
In regards of tennis, I think they test me often enough, blood and urine.   So, sure, if they want to increase it, why not?   But we have a tough enough time with this WADA process of us telling them every single day of our life where we need to be.   
So I don't really see how can it be more strict than that.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT