AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 14, 2013
Janko Tipsarevic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. TIPSAREVIC/L. Hewitt
  7‑6, 7‑5, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You came up with some pretty big shots at very important moments in the match tonight.   3‑Love down in the second...   
JANKO TIPSAREVIC:   Yeah.   I don't think that was the main reason that I won, but I think it really helped that on important moments, having breakpoints up or game points or, I don't know, deuce on 6‑5 in the second set, the set point, it really helps.   Sometimes it happens; sometimes it doesn't.   Today, obviously most of these shots were going in.   
It was really a big help today.   
   
 Q.   When the draw was made, was it one of those, I wish this didn't happen to me?  
JANKO TIPSAREVIC:   I was going to practice on Margaret Court and Jo was practicing there.   He started laughing at me.   He said, Who is going to play on center court, singing like a song.   I said, No, please.   
But I think Lleyton Hewitt is as tough as it gets for a first round Australian Open first Grand Slam of the year.   With all the respect to all the other guys who are potential threats, like Davydenko or Monfils or Dimitrov or whatever, I think this is as tough as it gets, knowing that he plays really good tennis here, knowing that he won Kooyong last week, beating Raonic, Berdych, and Del Potro in the same tournament, even if that was an exhibition event.   
I cannot tell you how happy that I am, first of all, that I managed to win, and second of all, to win in straight sets.   
   
 Q.   He said he thought it was the best you could play.   Did you feel the same way?  
JANKO TIPSAREVIC:   I feel it was the best I could play in important moments of the match.   Overall I am satisfied with my game.   
I think I was a little bit too passive in the first and the beginning of the second set.   But luckily I was able to get out of trouble with my serve.   I was serving really well I think all throughout the match.   
But when I really started playing well was I think when I was a double break down in the second set.   That's when I realized that if I continue running, pushing, relying on my first serve, that I will not be able to beat this guy in a best‑of‑five‑set match.   
Especially because it was a night session match, it was getting colder, the serve was not going as fast as it did in the first set.   I stepped up, I started to hit, I started being closer to the line, my backhand down the line was making more damage later in the match.   
But I'm having confidence from last week, two weeks ago, because I won an event.   And I really look forward to going deep in this tournament.  
   
 Q.   Is he still one of the best scramblers that we've seen in tennis?   
JANKO TIPSAREVIC:   It's really amazing.   I mean, the guy had so many injuries, and he is turning 32 this year, and the balls that he's making you play just to finish the point.   I mean, you saw the game, somebody can maybe say, It was 5‑3, 6‑3, but I really had to dig deep, deep, deep, even in the game when I had to serve it out.   And I was serving good.   I made three or four first serves.   I really needed to produce some extraordinary tennis in order to win in the important points.   
I think, as I said, this part really helped.   Because every time when I needed to today, I was able to come up with big shots and winners from positions which normally you don't make a winner from.   
   
 Q.   What is the meaning of the tattoo on your right arm?  
JANKO TIPSAREVIC:   What does it mean?   
   
 Q.   Yes.   
JANKO TIPSAREVIC:   It means that beauty will save the world.   
   
 Q.   Chinese or Japanese?  
JANKO TIPSAREVIC:   It's Japanese.  
   
 Q.   What time did you make it?  
JANKO TIPSAREVIC:   What time?   I don't know the time of the day that I made it (smiling), but I believe I was 21 or 22.   
   
 Q.   How many tattoos on your arm?  
JANKO TIPSAREVIC:   Six.   Do you have any tattoos?   
   
 Q.   Yes.   
JANKO TIPSAREVIC:   Good.   That's good.   That's great stuff.   
   
 Q.   Do you have any regret?  
JANKO TIPSAREVIC:   So far no.   I am currently on an embargo from my wife not allowing me to do any more.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT