THE HASKELL INVITATIONAL MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 3, 2006
Tom Albertrani
Kelly Breen
Angel Cordero
Kiaran McLaughlin
Eddie Plesa
Elliot Walden
John Ward
George Zoffinger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







GEORGE ZOFFINGER:  I'll be very brief.  I want to reemphasize the welcome to Vonage as a sponsor this year.  We certainly are very grateful for their support and look forward to working for you for years to come.  I hope you have a winner on Sunday. 
On a serious note, one of the things that I've said over the last couple days as we go through this, look forward to the best weekend in horse racing in New Jersey, certainly it's an extremely important industry to our state, the fact that we've got to do something about shoring up our business, making sure that we're viable for the long-term. 
 The one way we can do that is VLTs, slots, whatever you want to call them, in our marketplace at the Meadowlands.  I know there's a lot of people of influence in this room. 
 As we look around at the competition that's going to occur in New York, Pennsylvania, certainly it's already in Maryland, Delaware, potentially in Maryland, we need to do something to make sure this industry is viable not only from the standpoint of the horsemen and horse racing, but also from the standpoint of all the farms that raise horses, all the breeders, the people that own the stallions, all the things that make this state the great place that it is in terms of some green space. 
 Anyway, I just want to say that the people in this room are very influential.  Got to get behind this effort, because Yonkers is opening in the spring, Aqueduct is coming, Philadelphia Park is coming.  We've got to do something.  I want everybody in this room to be supportive of that effort.  I know you are, but we have to use our influence to get this done. 
 With that said, I want to say, get on with the show.  I hope the that the four horse is a strong horse, but you know I always bet on the four horse.  And thank you very much for your participation and support, thanks. 


























ELLIOTT WALDEN:  Thank you.  Seems like old times. 

 ELLIOTT WALDEN:  It was one of the fondest.  It was a tremendous week, quite honestly.  Probably the best week of my training career, because we had Menifee win the Haskell; Ecton Park won the Jim Dandy, and Victory Golf won the Whitney the following week or the week before, I can't remember.  We were on a roll at that point. 

 ELLIOTT WALDEN:  Well, you know, we've driven that, I guess, heard you all draw it.  You know, with nine horses in a mile and an eighth, I don't think it's a really super problem.  If you had 12 or 13 in there.  If we drew the outside, then it would be an issue. 

 ELLIOTT WALDEN:  He's done well.  Todd has had him at Belmont Park since the Belmont.  After his work last week, he moved to Saratoga.  He gave his final preparation at Saratoga on Monday.  He's doing great.  He has filled out. 
 The Triple Crown, as with most horses, will take its toll on a horse, just the daily preparation up to the Triple Crown.  And then the rigors of going through the Triple Crown, even though we didn't run in the Preakness, we ran a mile and a quarter the first week in May, then came back in the Belmont going a mile and a half. 
 He lightened up a little bit.  We were able to give him some time, fill him back up, and hopefully have a great latter part of the year. 

 ELLIOTT WALDEN:  Well, I think that's real important.  I was getting ready to allude to that.  You know, the post position isn't that big a deal for him because he is so versatile.  You know, if he needs to be pushed along a little bit to get over, he can do that.  Or if he needs to take back a little bit to get over, he can do that. 
 I think that's why I'm not concerned about the post position.  It's a real asset to have a horse that's versatile.  I know we ran in the Haskell with Victory Gallop.  Victory Gallop was a little bit different.  This horse is very similar to Menifee in the fact you can kind of place him where you feel comfortable.  Victory Gallop, on the other hand, is a horse that needed to come from off the pace and make one big run.  Sometimes those horses are victimized. 

 ELLIOTT WALDEN:  He is going to arrive the day of the race.  That is by design.  The only bad race that he ran basically in his career, he had shipped to Kenneland from Churchill three days before the race, and had schooled in the paddock. 
 The only thing that we could come up with was the fact that he had kind of fretted, worried about running for three days.  By the time the race was on, he was flat.  He was very calm in the paddock.  For the people that are listening, the fans that are going to be, this horse should be on his toes a little bit in the paddock; he should be feeling good, having a little bit of that storm cat attitude to him.  And that day in the Bluegrass, he was very, very flat. 
 At the time, we thought that might be a good thing because he's settling down.  In hindsight, when he ran so flat and poor, we decided that might be a possibility.  He's going to ship out of his own stall the morning of the race. 

 ELLIOTT WALDEN:  Yes. 

 ELLIOTT WALDEN:  Yes. 

 ELLIOTT WALDEN:  Sunday.  I might ride the van down with him. 

 ELLIOTT WALDEN:  Thank you.  Good luck to everybody. 

 JOHN WARD:  I'm great.  You? 


 JOHN WARD:  I think it's a perfect draw for us.  It puts us, you know, down close to the fence.  This horse has got some lick when you want to use it.  You know, it gives Edgar Prado the ability to do with the horse what he feels best. 

 JOHN WARD:  That question will be answered about 6:30 on Sunday (laughter).  So far, you know, we are lightly raced.  That is an advantage to me because this is a May the 15th foal.  We've been able to kind of, since we didn't go in any of the Triple Crown races, we've been able to pick our spots. 
 You know, I think this horse is coming up to this race just about as good as we can get him there.  He's just going to have to show us, just as everybody else, whether he's got the talent to compete in the grade one company or he's just a notch below.  It's going to be an interesting day to watch. 

 JOHN WARD:  Not really.  The horse was probably most comfortable training at Gulfstream this winter, which was a two-turn configuration racetrack, a mile and an eighth.  I think if anything, the training at Belmont has probably been a little bit against his grain because it is a big one-turn racetrack. 
 He seemed to overcome that.  He seemed to get stronger because of that.  I kind of think that dropping back to the true two turns is going to be somewhat of a plus.  Also the mile and an eighth racetrack is a little quicker racetrack, firmer, get ahold of it.  He tends to like to have something a little bit harder underneath his feet. 

 JOHN WARD:  Well, you know, there's some formidable horses in here.  Bluegrass Cat has certainly done all anybody can ask him to except win the Classic.  I think he's going to be on his game.  The other horses, Deputy Glitters, is a good horse.  I think it's not -- I think it's a good field this year, very competitive. 
 I go into it very reserved.  My pluses are the fact that Edgar Prado is back on him again.  He really knows him like the back of his hand, has a lot of confidence in him.  I think y'all have done a good job of putting together a very nice field. 

 JOHN WARD:  We're all going to be there on Sunday morning.  Bluegrass Cat and Strong Contender will probably race each other down the New Jersey Turnpike.  We're going to get there pretty early on Sunday, try to beat the heat, just kind of rest the rest of the day, go on over for the race. 

 JOHN WARD:  Thank you. 

 TOM ALBERTRANI:  Good. 

 TOM ALBERTRANI:  Thank you very much. 

 TOM ALBERTRANI:  Well, it shouldn't bother us too much.  He's got some early speed.  He'll probably be running through the first turn trying to get a little position.  If we were down a couple more post positions, may have suited us a little bit better.  Seven is not a bad draw for us. 

 TOM ALBERTRANI:  Well, I think we hit a couple obstacles with this horse.  We had him going in the right direction.  When he ran second to Bluegrass Cat in the Sam Davis Stakes, was the first time we were able to run him two turns. 
 He was disappointing before that race because he kept seeming like he just wasn't finishing up his races going short.  Since we started going through turns with him, he actually started to run better.  He came back in the Tampa Bay Derby and certainly put in a huge effort that day to beat Bluegrass Cat. 
 At that point, we had him going in the right direction.  We hit a sloppy track going into the wood.  We went two steps back after that race going to the derby.  His derby run, we had a horrible trip that day.  He got off a bit slow.  He was further back than we wanted to be.  He came 11, 12 wide.  He really had no chance. 
 We lost a lot of ground, getting beat only about -- I don't know what the exact distance was -- not more than nine lengths I think on the race.  So he didn't run a really bad race in the Derby considering. 
 And then back to the Belmont, for some unknown reasons, he just didn't finish up.  Didn't know if he was coming down with a virus of some sort.  His skin coat didn't look great.  Maybe he was just coming down with something.  He didn't put in a very good effort that day. 
 After the Belmont, he came back, he was firing.  He trained well leading up to the Ohio Derby, was able to put in a huge effort that day. 

 TOM ALBERTRANI:  Well, it gives you maybe a little advantage.  Strong hope, I think he's going to be able to get the distance, I don't question that.  Bluegrass Cat can certainly get the distance.  Those are the two horses I have great respect for. 

 TOM ALBERTRANI:  He would have to win impressively, I think.  Also, depending how he came out of the race, would give us three weeks back.  I don't think we'll make any decisions until we actually saw the running of the race, see how he did. 

 TOM ALBERTRANI:  He'll be leaving Sunday morning from Belmont. 

 TOM ALBERTRANI:  Thanks very much. 

 KIARAN McLAUGHLIN:  Great.  How are you? 

 KIARAN McLAUGHLIN:  Well, I like it.  I mean, I would much rather be down close to the rail than in the eight or nine hole.  We have enough speed to leave there running and get some position into the first turn being that far inside we might actually have to send him away from there and get position.  We'll be probably first, second, or third into the first turn, go from there. 

 KIARAN McLAUGHLIN:  Well, he seems to, you know, not do well inside the red zone, as Terry said.  It's down to the 20 yardline; we can't quite score.  He does everything right to that point.  We've been second, third, second in some nice races.  We need to get through and get to the winner's circle. 
 The last race, the jockey did a good job, really did do a good job.  Looks like the horse resented trying to go inside the last three-sixteenths.  Finished third, ran well. 
 We were second to Bluegrass Cat in the Ransom last year.  We ran and got beat by Minister's Bid.  In the Kentucky Derby, 20 of 20, had no chance.  So he's run very well in most of his races and hopefully we'll get lucky on Sunday. 

 KIARAN McLAUGHLIN:  Not more pressure.  It would be nice to do it.  Like I said, the horse deserves to win a nice race.  He's a very nice horse.  I like you bringing up his sire won the race.  We need all the pluses we can think going into a big race. 

 KIARAN McLAUGHLIN:  Well, now that I heard Tom Albertrani is going Sunday morning from Belmont, maybe we'll share a van because we're also at Belmont and going Sunday morning. 

 KIARAN McLAUGHLIN:  Thank you. 

 EDDIE PLESA:  Good morning. 

 EDDIE PLESA:  Absolutely.  I'm a big -- I've always been a fan of Monmouth Park.  It's exciting to be able to run in this race.  We think we have a chance. 

 EDDIE PLESA:  I would have to think so.  He doesn't have to go through the rigors of traveling, whether it be from Belmont, Saratoga or elsewhere.  In our last race, we had to fly out to Iowa. 
 Any time you have to travel, there's not a lot of good (indiscernible).  Needless to say, it sounds strange for me to say this, but it's almost a home court advantage for us being here at Monmouth. 

 EDDIE PLESA:  I believe so.  Again, you know, being wide on both turns certainly cost him, you know, some ground.  He ran a good race.  Needless to say, there's one way to win and a thousand ways to lose.  That was one of the ways of losing, drawing a bad post position, getting hung up on the outside, never having an opportunity to save any ground. 

 EDDIE PLESA:  Actually, I'm leaving Saturday night out of Fort Lauderdale to come up here.  I have some horses running in some stakes at Calder.  Big day racing at Calder.  We'll be there Saturday night. 

 EDDIE PLESA:  Thanks very much. 

 ANGEL CORDERO:  Very good.  Very good. 

 ANGEL CORDERO:  I'd say he has changed a lot since the Derby.  He filled up a lot.  He's training very, very good.  Belmont was an excellent race.  Seems like he's just getting better and better. 
 Probably going to do his best.  The older he get, the better he get.  He's solid and he's very willing to do a lot of stuff.  So he's coming into the race as good as he's come into any other race. 

 ANGEL CORDERO:  Well, Johnny rode him this colt and knows him very well.  He knows him very well.  I don't think the post is going to be any problem.  I don't think the track condition is going to be any problem. 
 You know, he's the type of horse that he can handle any kind of track.  He's a little more mature than he was earlier in the year, so he's easier to train now than he was before. 
 You know, he's answering every question that we ask him.  He'll go two turns, he can go to the lead, he can come from the behind, he can run on the mud, he can run on the dry.  I just a big believer that the older this horse, the better he's going to get. 

 ANGEL CORDERO:  I won my 6000th race there in Monmouth Park.  I was able to win 6000 there when I went to Monmouth Park to ride on two- and three-year olds.  I always remember that. 
 I didn't rode a (indiscernible) in Monmouth Park, but I did a lot of flying from New York to Monmouth to ride.  (Indiscernible) the management are very nice to everybody.  They could be the nicest when you go there.  They go out of their way trying to make everybody comfortable. 
 But I'm looking forward to see Johnny win the Haskell because I never did it.  I would like to see him win that one. 

 ANGEL CORDERO:  I'm going to try.  If they have room on the plane, I'm going with him.  Otherwise, I'm going to stay home and root for him. 
 One thing I have to tell you, the horse is doing the best.  You know, he might act a little hyper in the paddock.  That's him.  It's that breeding that comes through.  When he's like that, that's when he runs his best. 

 ANGEL CORDERO:  I wish all your fans have a good day, and may the best horse win. 




 KELLY BREEN:  We actually ran in the Haskell when I was assistant trainer for Ben.  I was getting ready to run in the grade one in the Breeders Cup last year, fell short with a horse getting sick.  You know, this is the biggest race I've been involved in.  I'm just happy to be here. 

 KELLY BREEN:  I think it's a great post position.  I figure we'll come out, we'll float out Bluegrass Cat a little bit, come back over, get Strong Contender, and just go wire to wire, make it look easy (laughter). 
 I do believe it's a great post position.  Joe can see who is going to do what, who is going where.  I believe we'll be close to the front end. 
 Joe can make up his own mind if he wants to really go to the front end.  You know, the horse can race.  We're not going to get trapped down inside like we were last time, although the horse showed a lot of grit and kept on running. 
 But, you know, just to be in with this quality of horses, we're going to have -- a lot of the horse's ability is going to come through Joe.  I put my faith into Joe.  We're going to give 'em hell. 

 KELLY BREEN:  The horse loves the track.  We knew it from last year as a two-year-old.  He just excels over it.  He really -- you can tell a difference.  I was on him, I gallop him, I was down in Florida.  He got back to Monmouth Park, it was like we put springs on his shoes.  He loves the track.  We got that going for us.  He's here every day.  We don't have to ship.  This is our house.  Bring it on.  We'll try anybody.  It's a million dollars.  We'll do whatever we got to do to try and win. 

 KELLY BREEN:  He was tired for a couple days.  You like to see that.  You like to see a horse that gives it at the office.  He laid down, he relaxed.  Sure, it took something out of him.  I think there was enough time after that race coming into this race. 
 Tried not to knock him out, didn't give him any hard workout after the race, tried to prep him the same as difficult for the last race as this race, long, slow gallop, trying to get him fresh again for Sunday. 

 KELLY BREEN:  I said it before, this is like our Kentucky Derby.  Jersey people, the owners are all Jersey people, born and raised 25 minutes north of here.  I have my mom and dad out here.  They're all proud.  I guess my brother has been yelling at me that I don't say anything about my family.  My family will be here. 
 You can't describe it.  You come here as a little kid.  You talk about the Haskell, coming here to get a Haskell hat, now I'm trying to get the Haskell trophy.  It's a good feeling. 

 Joe, come over here for a second.  Joe, obviously the man here at Monmouth Park, 11 riding titles.  You got it done two years ago with Lion Heart.  Not only have you won a ton of races at this racetrack, you've won the Haskell.  What kind of advantage is that for you in this race? 
 JOE BRAVO:  I tell you right now, I'm going to start off by saying, I want to congratulate all the trainers in this race for developing these three-year-olds for coming into this race.  Every one of these horses are some really class acts. 
 It's really nice to be sitting on Kelly's horse, first of all.  Because we're looking forward --  this horse broke his maiden last year.  He's coming along.  When you're looking at a horse like this, two-year-olds, three-year-olds, we already had the Haskell in mind. 
 We knew he was a nice horse, developed him and bringing him around.  Nothing greater than to be able to knock it out.  It's going to be one hell of a race.  To sit here and try to talk strategy about the race, we have three days to sit through, guys.  Let's wait till the last minute, get as much information as we can and see what everybody else is doing, then get it done. 



 ALAN GOLDBERG:  We didn't make the West Virginia Derby.  That's an easy decision. 

 ALAN GOLDBERG:  Very much so.  Quiet.  Especially for the older horses.  The younger horses need the track at some point.  The older horses, it helps them a lot. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Talking about Awfully Smart, what about the versatility for that horse?  Seems like he's done well on the pace, off the pace.  Is that a big edge for you to have a horse with that much versatility? 
 ALAN GOLDBERG:  I think it's a big edge having Ramon Dominguez.  He's a wonderful rider.  He said he fits with these horses.  That's why we're in here. 

 ALAN GOLDBERG:  A little concern.  I think he would have won here when he ran in the Stakes.  It was just a bad trip.  Nobody's fault.  The whole way, things happened.  He ran at the end.  He might have been the best that day. 

 ALAN GOLDBERG:  I'd rather switch the post and have 6 with him and 2 for Victory Lake.  But Victory Lake is going to come from out of it.  This way Ramon can get position on the outside.  It is what it is. 

 ALAN GOLDBERG:  Thank you. 


 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT