NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 12, 2016
Russell Westbrook
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You guys just got done playing 12 hours ago; you're here.  How are you feeling?  Are you exhausted or excited?
RUSSELL WESTBROOK: I'm all right.  I'm hungry.  I've got to get some food, but I'm all right.
Q. You get voted in by the fans as a starter for the first time.  How does that make you feel?
RUSSELL WESTBROOK: It's a blessing, honestly, man, especially to be voted in.  I never thought I'd be voted in the All-Star Game as a starter.  It just shows your fan base, it shows the support system that the fans are giving over the last year.  So I'm thankful for that.  It's a great experience for me thus far.
Q. Can you talk about Kobe's impact on you and your generation?
RUSSELL WESTBROOK: It's been great.  Me growing up in Los Angeles and being able to see Kobe, obviously he's one of the greatest players to play the game.  It was a true honor to be able to learn from him.  It's a great experience to be able to learn different things from him, not just on the floor but off the floor as well and very different experiences.
Q. Is it a little surreal that the All-Star Game will not have Kobe again?
RUSSELL WESTBROOK: It's crazy to even see it now without Tim Duncan, those guys, Kevin Garnett, to see those guys not here is a little bit different.  To not see Kobe will definitely be a different experience.
Q. How would you like to perform on Sunday?
RUSSELL WESTBROOK: Well, I mean, just go out, have fun, enjoy the moment, enjoy the time on the floor and enjoy the experience.
Q. There are many Japanese fans watching the NBA All-Star Game.  Could you give us a message?
RUSSELL WESTBROOK: Yeah, thank you guys for voting.  Thank you guys for supporting the NBA and enjoy the game.
Q. Your game, you have just been yourself your entire career, but you've managed to get better in each aspect of the game.  What's the process been like over the years to continue to be kind of the most efficient version of yourself?
RUSSELL WESTBROOK: Every year trying to find ways to expand your game.  Every season I try to find ways to get better and find ways to be able to become a better player, and that's what I try to do.
Q. Has there been anything special or unique about this season for you with the way that you've played?
RUSSELL WESTBROOK: Just being able to find a way to make other guys better.  I think that's most important to me.  To be able to see other guys' games expand, at the same time our team is expanding and to see other guys grow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT