NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: THUNDER v SPURS
May 28, 2012
Russell Westbrook
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   It's a long series, but can you talk about the importance of coming back and getting out of here with a slip?   
RUSSELL WESTBROOK:   It's important, but our job is to come in and find a way to get a win, especially at home.  
   
 Q.   Talk about your defensive efforts, especially on a team concept.   You guys looked like you did a really good job.   But the point of attack with Tony Parker in that pick‑and‑roll?  
RUSSELL WESTBROOK:   It was good.   Good team defense.   Everybody did a good job just being in the help position.   We weren't able to come out with the win.  
   
 Q.   It seemed like if you guys sustained that with four quarters, you're going to get out of here with a win tomorrow night?   
RUSSELL WESTBROOK:   It gives us an opportunity to win the game.   They're a tough team.   They're going to make runs and it gives us a better opportunity to come out with a win.  
   
 Q.   Offense in the fourth quarter, normally when you guys go to James, you have success with the ball in his hands.   What was different about last night?   
RUSSELL WESTBROOK:   I'm not sure.   Maybe just we weren't able to make shots.  
   
 Q.   Seemed like you were force feeding it to Kevin a lot, and that bogged things down with Stephen Jackson crowding him?   
RUSSELL WESTBROOK:   I mean, Scotty was calling the sets and we were just running them.  
   
 Q.   Today's practice, you got an opportunity to figure out to get better every day?   
RUSSELL WESTBROOK:   Definitely.   We will come in and watch film to see what happened.  
   
 Q.   How did you assess your play last night?   Was it a night that you just didn't hit as big a percentage, or were there things that you think you need to adjust?   
RUSSELL WESTBROOK:   No, it was an okay game.   It wasn't bad, but I definitely could do better.  
   
 Q.   We've seen your ability to take over in the fourth quarter offensively when things sort of stagnate like that.   Do you have the freedom even when Scotty's calling in for Kevin to take over?   
RUSSELL WESTBROOK:   Yeah, I definitely have the freedom, but I just was passing it to Kevin.   Kevin was getting fouled and getting good shots.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel like you let one slip away last night?   
RUSSELL WESTBROOK:   Not really.   I mean, we played hard.   I'm pretty sure we're going to come out and do the same tomorrow.   We have opportunities to get going.  
   
 Q.   What will be the goal, to win the match‑up with Parker?   
RUSSELL WESTBROOK:   No, my goal is to win the game.  
   
 Q.   What is the biggest key to getting a win tomorrow?   
RUSSELL WESTBROOK:   Defending, man.   We continue to defend, and it gives ourselves an opportunity to win.  
   
 Q.   You guys have been really good at bouncing back all year.   Will it be any tougher to do in the playoffs like tomorrow night?   
RUSSELL WESTBROOK:   It's definitely going to be tougher, especially on the road.   This is a tough team, but hopefully we can come out with the same mindset.  
   
 Q.   They got 39 in the fourth.   What was the biggest problem, in your opinion?   
RUSSELL WESTBROOK:   They got in the paint.   They scored a lot of points in the paint.   
In the fourth quarter, they got a lot of shots in the paint, a lot of lay‑ups.   They got a lot of points in the paint.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT