NBA DRAFT
June 26, 2008
Russell Westbrook
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  (No. 4 Overall Selection, Seattle SuperSonics)


 Q. Can you talk about your feelings about being picked?
 RUSSELL WESTBROOK: I'm really excited. I'm thrilled to be here. I've been excited all weekend long. Just looking forward to playing for the Supersonics. 

 Q. Did you have a feeling that Seattle was in the picture for you, and the reason this becomes interesting is that you know that franchise may be moving to Oklahoma City, so guess you won't be buying any property in King County?
 RUSSELL WESTBROOK: Not any time soon but real fortunate that Seattle picked me and now I've got to go and do my job. 

 Q. Earlier in the year, more so in the season, you were not really being mentioned with the top five guys; how does it feel to sneak away to Seattle? 
 RUSSELL WESTBROOK: It feels great. I worked so hard to get to the best possible positions I could possibly be in and this is one of the best possible positions there is, and now I have to keep working to be at the top. 

 Q. Fortunately Seattle is in the same Western Conference so there's a chance for your family and friends to see new Los Angeles a few times; is that also a factor in saying, please don't move to Oklahoma City? 
 RUSSELL WESTBROOK: A little bit but at the same time my family is always by my side, so whatever it takes to come to the games, they will be there, so I'm not worried about that. 

 Q. You mentioned the other day that you kind of like the fact that you did not have a lot of attention on you coming out of high school and were able to sneak up on people going into the draft. Now that you've got a top five pick to your credit, how do you see yourself going forward?
 RUSSELL WESTBROOK: I've got to do the same thing I've been doing. Working, you know, twice as hard, especially in the NBA, got to work double time to try to become the best possible player I can become and continue to work. 

 Q. Talk about the Pac-10 flavor with you and O.J. and Kevin going 3,4,5? 
 RUSSELL WESTBROOK: O.J. is a big guy and Kevin right behind me, he's my boy and he's been there through the whole time I've been here. I'm real proud of the Pac 10, real proud for them. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT