ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 30, 2009
Josh Nesbitt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


   LINDSEY ROGERS: We're now joined by Josh Nesbitt, junior quarterback at Georgia Tech. Josh, are you with us? 
 JOSH NESBITT: Yeah, I'm right here. 
 LINDSEY ROGERS: Welcome. Josh leads Georgia Tech in both rushing touchdowns with 17 and passing touchdowns with 9, and we will now open the line for questions for Josh. 

 Q. Can you tell me about the differences in the first Clemson game and the offense now heading into facing them a second time? 
 JOSH NESBITT: We feel like we have a lot to prove because in our first meeting we only scored one offensive touchdown, and we feel like we can do a whole lot better than that. 

 Q. And why that? I mean, is it more confidence I assume? 
 JOSH NESBITT: Yeah, more confidence, and you know, we just have to go out and just play our best and do our assignments. 

 Q. As everybody knows, you've got quite talented and stable backs to work with on your offense. I wanted to ask you specifically about Anthony Allen, who has transferred in and playing for the first time this year. What has he added to your team, and what do you see as his strengths? 
 JOSH NESBITT: He's another leader that we need on this team. His leadership we need a whole lot. With him out on the field, he's such a great leader, and he runs the ball hard. 

 Q. To follow up, as he transferred in, what was the transition like as you guys got to know him and how he was able to fit in with you guys?
 JOSH NESBITT: We just got to learn what type of person he is, and while he was sitting out for that year, he went down and ran the scout team and gave our defense a very good look, and we knew we had a great player. 

 Q. I just wanted to ask you how the team is coming back from that loss on Saturday. Obviously it was a pretty disappointing thing, but you guys have put it behind you pretty quickly with the game coming up Saturday. What do you notice about the team since that game Saturday night and coming back from the disappointment of that? 
 JOSH NESBITT: Everybody knows that it was a very disappointing loss, but this upcoming game is much bigger than Georgia, just for the ACC, and we acknowledge that. I think everybody is ready. 

 Q. I guess obviously a lot of people are going to look at this game as kind of an afterthought after both you and Clemson lost on Saturday to SEC teams. What do y'all think when you hear people kind of putting the conference down and saying that it doesn't match up with some of the conferences like the SEC or Big 12?
 JOSH NESBITT: I think we match up perfectly with anybody that you line us up against. But we just came up a little short on Saturday. 
 LINDSEY ROGERS: Josh, thank you so much for joining us today.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT