BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL
December 30, 2012
Bojana Bobusic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 B. BOBUSIC/K. Pliskova
  6‑4, 4‑6, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Feel on a bit of a roll?   
BOJANA BOBUSIC:   Yeah, pretty‑‑ you know, gained a bit of confidence.   Just playing each match at a time and things are coming together well.  
Yeah, no, I'm stoked to be through in the main draw.  
   
 Q. (Question regarding the outside courts.)  
BOJANA BOBUSIC:   Yeah, today was actually windy.   The last two days it was really hot and still.   You know, Melbourne can get windy and in the playoff it was definitely windy, so, yeah, it doesn't phase me.   
Yeah.   
   
 Q.   What was your sort of attitude coming here after the playoff?   
BOJANA BOBUSIC:   Just seeing if I could just back up what I've been doing since the playoff.   Seeing if I can match up with the girls that are ranked a little bit better and seeing if my game can, like I said, match up with the others.  
Seems to be working so far.   So, yeah, just to see if I can get some more matches.   I bowed out of the quallies in Brisbane and Hobart in 2012, so it was just nice to get through a few rounds, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Probably won more matches than anybody.   That must give you great relief.   
BOJANA BOBUSIC:   (Laughing)   Yeah, it's easier said than done.   I've still got a fair way to go, but it's nice that things are coming together and I've been able to get a few more wins under my belt.  
   
 Q.   (Question regarding the draw.)   
BOJANA BOBUSIC:   Yeah, my coach said may possible play Wozniacki, but, yeah, Olivia has got to qualify as well.   You just don't know what you're going to get.   
I played an Australian first round of quallies, so it is what it is.   Take it as it comes, yeah.   
   
 Q.   When do you find out?  
BOJANA BOBUSIC:   I think there are still a few more qualifiers playing, so maybe a bit later on.   I'm actually not too sure.   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible.)  
BOJANA BOBUSIC:   Yeah, I'll just keep doing what I've been doing:   recovering and getting some food in me.   Just did an ice bath and stretched and got some lunch and get a bit of treatment, and then I'll head back and see what the schedule is like.  
   
 Q.   How much reassessing did you do after the playoff knowing that you're going to start off the season with a Grand Slam?   You know that's going to be there.   Does it make this coming here a little bit easier knowing that things are (indiscernible) for at least the first part of the season?  
BOJANA BOBUSIC:   Yeah, before the playoff I actually didn't think I was going to be playing Brisbane.   I think in the playoff probably helped that a little bit.   
But as I said this isn't the end; it's more of the start.   2013 is a new year.   I had a bit of a tough year with my injury.   It's not even January yet, so I can't ‑‑ you know, Brisbane and then potentially Hobart or Sydney and then the Aussie.   
So start of the year and it's ‑‑ like we've been saying, it's not the end, it's the start.  
It's nice to know what I'm playing, but take it as it comes.   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   You won all three matches in three sets?  
BOJANA BOBUSIC:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Mentally you're pretty strong then?  
BOJANA BOBUSIC:   I actually really enjoy playing in the heat and humidity.   For me I think it's a bit of an advantage.   It's nice to know that I'm physically in shape and can last three matches with three sets.   
Yeah, it's good.  
   
 Q.   Do you pride yourself on your fitness?  
BOJANA BOBUSIC:   Yeah, I've worked hard in November.   I did a really good training block leading up to the playoff.   
Yeah, I worked hard physically and on court and it was hard, and came into the playoff and was able to back it up every day.   Here as well.   
Things are good, yeah.  
   
 Q.   Your injury, did you take time to do things differently?   
BOJANA BOBUSIC:   Yeah, I had plantar fasciitis in February and redid it the end of July.   There are things that I can't do physically.   Like I don't run anymore.   My conditioning is bike, pool, boxing, and the rest is done on court.   
So I've really got to off‑load as much as I can with the foot.   It's something that I manage every day.   Every day is different with my foot.   
So, yeah...  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible.)   
BOJANA BOBUSIC:   No, no, not at all.   No.   
   
 Q.   (Question regarding the surface.)  
BOJANA BOBUSIC:   Just the Plexicusion, yeah.   Hard court.   Growing up because I'm from Perth played a lot on grass as well.   Actually really enjoy the grass as well.  
   
 Q.   Is that why you love the heat, growing up in Perth?  
BOJANA BOBUSIC:   I think so.   It's been 41 all these last in Perth these last few days in Perth, so I've kind of missed out on it.   Just growing up in Perth and having the heat is an advantage, yeah.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT