NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 13, 2015
Brandon Knight
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Take a fresh look at everything.  If you could change one thing, what would it be?BRANDON KNIGHT: For me I appreciate -- spent a lot of time practicing and stuff like that.  Training camp.  A little bit excessive before the season started.  Three or four games, maybe five.  I prolonged it a little bit more than (Inaudible) .Q. How different was it?BRANDON KNIGHT: I wouldn't say it was a whole lot different as far as activity.  I would say the mindset we had as a team from the beginning was a little bit different.  I would say just basically what we went through last year, our guys were a lot more focused this year and prepared.  Really bought in from day one.Q. (Inaudible).BRANDON KNIGHT: Just trying to focus on finishing up half the season, the games before the All-Star Break.  As a team we wanted not to slip and use this time as a time to gain some ground.  We did that.  The All-Star Game was in the back of my mind.  But I couldn't focus on it.  Like I said, I had to focus on trying to win games.Q. Do you expect you guys to play as well as you've played over the first half over the summer, preseason?  Did you have a sense that it could be as good as it's been --BRANDON KNIGHT: I had a sense we could be a pretty good team.  I had a sense we had the talent, the bodies and the players needed to make a good push, and we've done that so far.Q. You individually, did you think that you would take the step that you've taken this year?BRANDON KNIGHT: Yeah.  I never put it past myself.  I am going to continue to take steps as an individual.  I put the time in, I study the game.  I'm one of the hardest workers I've been around.  I know that I will continue to take those steps.Q. How would you describe the team chemistry?  It seems you guys are sort of at the top of the league right now.  It seems like you really enjoy each other.BRANDON KNIGHT: It's great.  It's great.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT