NBA DRAFT
June 23, 2011
Brandon Knight
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 BRANDON KNIGHT (No. 8)
  DETROIT PISTONS 
  
  Q. Brandon, if you can start with an opening statement, your feeling about being drafted by the Pistons?  
 BRANDON KNIGHT : I'm just happy I got picked by the Pistons. I had a great interview with them. I didn't have the chance to work out with them.   
  
  Q. Talk about playing with veterans like Tayshaun Prince, how much are you looking forward to being mentored?   
 BRANDON KNIGHT: Definitely looking forward to it. I'm someone that likes to learn, so I know that in Detroit, I'll be able to learn and get better, and that's one of my goals.  
  
  Q. How confident were you that you were going to be the next guard taken off the board after Kyrie got taken?  
 BRANDON KNIGHT: I was very confident. I just didn't know when it would be.   
  
  Q. In addition to veterans, you've got a lot of young guys, guys like Greg Monroe and guys like -- that are young players. How is that going to fit for you? Do you know any of those players? What do you feel like you're going to bring to the Pistons?  
 BRANDON KNIGHT: No, I don't personally know any of those players, but I think it will fit fine. I think every team has a way of finding a way to gel, and I'm sure we'll find a way to do that.  
 I just try to fit in just by working hard. That's what I've done every place I've been. I'm just going to work hard and give it a 110 percent.   
  
  Q. What was going through your mind when some of those guys went ahead of you in the 5, 6, 7 range? Did you think you would go higher than you did?  
 BRANDON KNIGHT: I did, but the Draft is inexact. You can't think about it. From now, it's just about making people pay that passed up on you. That's really what it's about.  
  
  Q. Were you surprised Detroit picked you since you did not work out for them?  
 BRANDON KNIGHT: I was kind of surprised. I didn't think it would come from them, but like I say, the Draft is inexact. You never know what's going to happen.   
  
  Q. What are your feelings on the Pistons, where they are at right now, and where do you see them possibly at the end of the season?  
 BRANDON KNIGHT: I know they are in a rebuilding stage trying to get back to previous form and winning championships. I want to be a part of that process and be a part of making the team better. I know they missed the playoffs the last couple of years, and I know I want to be part of that run trying to make the playoffs.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT