NHL STANLEY CUP FINAL: BLUES VS BRUINS
June 7, 2019
Craig Berube
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I don't know if you've had time to look at any video, but what did you like about last night's game?
CRAIG BERUBE: Like I said last night, it was a gutsy performance.  I thought Boston came hard, obviously.  They tested us, but we hung in there.  Our goalie played really well, and I just thought everybody really competed hard and put everything on the line for the win.
Q. You mentioned after the first home game here where maybe the players maybe got a little too emotional about the atmosphere and everything.  Obviously there's going to be another crazy atmosphere surrounding this game.  How do you maybe guard against that?
CRAIG BERUBE: Yeah, we already talked about it, and we'll talk again tomorrow about it.  I think our guys, they went through it already once, and I think they'll be more prepared this time.
Q. It's amazing how when you get to this point, the two best teams, how difficult it is to get that fourth win against a good team.
CRAIG BERUBE: It always is.  I think every round it's been difficult to get that fourth win.  It's always hard to close a team out, and we're going to get their best game.  A lot like last night, I thought they came out hard, like I said.  They really poured it on in the first period.  We hung in there, and we're going to have to be really prepared to go, and Game 6 we will be, and again, we're at home, so we've got to get after that team in the first period and set the tone.
Q. What have you guys been able to do against their power play the last two games?
CRAIG BERUBE: I think just taking away lanes.  They really like using seam passes and things like that, and I thought we were tight and doing a good job with our sticks and doing a real good job on our stand at the blue line on their breakouts and breaking plays up.
Q. You guys clinched your first three series at home.  Any common denominators there?
CRAIG BERUBE: I don't know, I don't really look in the past at that.  I know that's over with.  I just focus on the next game here, and it's a new series, so every series is different.
Q. What did Zach Sanford show with his passing ability the last three games?
CRAIG BERUBE: Yeah, he's always -- like we've always known he had real good puck skills and the ability to make plays.  He's been a good player since we put him in there, been a hard player.  He's been physical, strong around pucks, and he's made some good plays that resulted in goals.
Q. Barbashev has a hearing today.  Since there wasn't a penalty on the play, are you surprised that there's a hearing?
CRAIG BERUBE: Well, they're going to look at things that happen in games, and that's just part of it.  It's physical hockey, it's heavy hockey out there both ways, and they're going to look at some stuff once in a while, so that's the way it goes.
Q. I'm not going to ask you to guess on what comes out of that, but is it just the next-man-up type of mentality if there is discipline handed down?
CRAIG BERUBE: Yeah, well, somebody is going to have to step in and go do the job, for sure, a lot like Sundqvist with the suspension there.  Somebody will come in and do the job for sure.
Q. What is Barbashev doing in these Playoffs?
CRAIG BERUBE: Well, a lot like Sundqvist, heavy hockey, good defensive stuff, penalty kill, just relentless on the puck and the forecheck.  They've been a physical line throughout the Playoffs.  We'll see what happens.
Q. A lot of attention again on officiating; how do you keep your team focused on playing the game?
CRAIG BERUBE: Well, we're going to focus on playing the game.  It goes both ways, like I've said.  There's calls either way that could be made, and some are made and some aren't made.  That's just the way we look at it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT