NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: CAPITALS v RED WINGS
June 9, 1998
Craig Berube
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  It seems like this hockey game just came down to that two minutes and change in the first period when Detroit got those couple of goals.  From a team's perspective what happened in that stretch?

CRAIG BERUBE:  Just kind of had a couple of breakdowns.  We went to sleep for a couple of minutes.  But when you do that with this team, they put it in the net.  You let the guard down a little bit, they get a couple of quick goals.  We just couldn't get them back.  We played well, I thought.  We just let it down for a little bit, you know, went in our net.


Q.  You guys are down 0-1 at this point.  What positives can you take out of this game going into Game 2?

CRAIG BERUBE:  A lot.  I thought we played a pretty solid hockey game and played with them.  We had some good chances and the goalie made the saves.  We didn't get the puck through and stuff, but for the most part, we played right with them.  And I think that is very important to see that after the first game for team confidence.


Q.  When you are on the road if it has to be a split is it better winning the second game because you carry momentum going into home?

CRAIG BERUBE:  I don't know.  It doesn't really matter.  I think sometimes when you win the first game you can really go after that second game here.  But, we lost the first game against Buffalo at home and came back and won the next won.  So, we are not too worried.  We feel pretty good about ourselves and we have to go out and play 60 minutes next game.  You can't play 50 or 45 against this team because you see what happens, they score.  When they get chances they put them in.


Q.  How tight was it out there for a shooter?

CRAIG BERUBE:  They are probably one of the best defensive teams in the League.  They have it down pat.  They got that third guy back all the time.  You have got to work for your goals.  You have got to get it deep and grind it out and try to get the puck to the net.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT