UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 5, 2011
Tray Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q. In the first half were you guys a little disappointed you couldn't run the ball better? A lot of the running yards came in the second. 
 TRAY ALLEN: You know, as far as that goes, after every drive we just have to come back to the sideline and say, okay, what are we doing and try to make our changes and get back out there and call the right plays and get it going. It's something that we need to do. We need to start fast next week. BYU is a veteran team. They're really good, and starting slow isn't going to be acceptable. We need to -- first drive of the game, no matter where we get the ball, if it's on the 20 or if it's on the 50, that drive needs to be a drive for us. 

 Q. Particularly in the second half you guys really started to click, push the line. 
 TRAY ALLEN: I mean, just feeling the game. Games aren't always going to be what they seem, but when you get to the sideline and we look at our game plan, we look at the defense and what they're doing and you get a feel of -- we had it pretty well after that. 

 Q. Talk about the challenge of BYU. 
 TRAY ALLEN: Yes. BYU has history, BYU is a great team. They have a big defensive front. They're veterans. They've won their last ten games for the last however many years. That's a big credit to them and their coaches. They're doing a really good job up there, and we can't take them lightly when we go play them on Saturday. We're going to get to the drawing board today and look at the film and start breaking it down and get ready for practice this week and then next week and then on Saturday have a good game.

 Q. Talk about how big they are up front. 
 TRAY ALLEN: Yeah, I'm looking forward to the game. I'm ready to have all the blue marks and the paint chipping off of my helmet, a physical game, getting back to the physical running game that Texas is known for, and establishing our identity this year, and we're having fun with it. 

 Q. What's Garrett's demeanor like in the huddle? 
 TRAY ALLEN: When Garrett gets to the huddle, we're talking before he gets to the huddle and calling plays, but when he gets to the huddle he demands attention. He makes sure everybody is in the huddle, all the backs and receivers, and he gets our attention and gives us the play, and we get to the line and run it. 

 Q. Is Garrett's demeanor different from last year?
 TRAY ALLEN: Last year I had an injury so I didn't play, and the year before the last time I seen Garrett in the huddle was at the National Championship. It was a big stage for him to be thrown into. But he handled it well. We almost came back and beat Alabama, and I think that Garrett is going to be a great quarterback. He's already been a great quarterback, and he's going to keep our offense moving and we're going to have a lot of fun this year, win a lot of games.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT