WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: 1ST ROUND POOL C
March 9, 2017
Ernie Whitt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Dominican Republic - 9, Canada - 2   
 Q.  Is the philosophical way to look at it that you needed two wins in this tournament to advance anyway?  
ERNIE WHITT: Yeah, we try to win every game we go out.  That's a pretty good ballclub they ran out there tonight.  There's no soft spot, that's for sure.   
But I'm proud of the guys.  We hung in there and a couple mistakes, but overall have a practice tomorrow and ready to play on Saturday.   
 Q.  What was your assessment of Ryan?  And at 49 pitches was there a thought that you wanted to kind of make sure that you could use him again or was he just maxed out at that point?  
ERNIE WHITT: No, he could have gone back out.  But we just felt that at that point in time that we had an opportunity to save him, and now he's able to pitch on Saturday or Sunday, depending upon how his body feels.   
 Q.  Your assessment of how he pitched?  
ERNIE WHITT: I thought he threw the ball fine.  They got some hits that made it through the infield.  That's a fast infield out there.  They hit some balls hard, but they got some also some hits that made it through the infield.   
 Q.  Overall can you talk a little bit about what you see after this game.  Obviously it was a tough game to start with, but coming in to the next game, what do you want from your team?  
ERNIE WHITT: A win.  I mean that's -- we have to win now.  We wanted to win tonight, we wanted to play -- I can say that I can't think of a team that was better than what the DR team puts out there.  I've been involved with this since 2006.  I thought the U.S. team in 2006 was a good team, but I think they have more consistent arms coming out of the DR, out of this team than theirs.  Like I said, there's no soft spot in the lineup.  You make one mistake and they're going to hurt you.   
 Q.  My question was about that, what were your plans for the next two games?  But actually you just said it.  I want to know who has impressed you the most the young guys from your team?  
ERNIE WHITT: Well, I'm really impressed with -- well, we saw one of them pitch tonight, Rowan Wick.  He's got a pretty good arm.  That ball gets on them really good.  Naylor, who came in to pinch-hit, but I was looking forward to seeing him put one in the fourth deck up there.  But didn't happen.  But he's going to be a good young star.  Tyler's going to be a good player.  So we have got some good young players coming up that's going to keep this program going.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT