U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2004
Amanda McCurdy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
RHONDA GLENN:  Amanda McCurdy, I know you've been waiting around for us.  That was very nice of you to do that.  Thank you.  Congratulations for winning the match, getting to the final.  What's your overall take on this?
AMANDA MCCURDY:  It's just unbelievable experience.  I just am enjoying every minute of it.  I just can't think of a better place to be right now than right here and to make it to the finals tomorrow is just unbelievable to play Paula today and to do as well as I did is pretty good experience.
RHONDA GLENN:  You only had one bogey on the day.  Three birdies, that's very consistent play on a very difficult golf course.
AMANDA MCCURDY:  I played better yesterday.  Because you could tell by my scores, but today I just hit just about every fairway, just about every green, and if I didn't, I got up-and-down, except for on that one bogey.  So in match play I think that's what you have to do.  And that's what I've tried to do all week is hit the fairways, because you have to out here, and hit the greens.  And it just worked out for me today.
RHONDA GLENN:  I saw the putt on 9.  But your birdie putt on 3.  About how long was that.
AMANDA MCCURDY:  3?
RHONDA GLENN:  Excuse me, 9 then was that about four.
AMANDA MCCURDY:  Yeah, it was about three feet.  It was pretty close.
RHONDA GLENN:  And then your birdie on 14.
AMANDA MCCURDY:  On 14?  That was conceded.  Because she had a putt for bogey like 10?
Q.  She was putting for par?
AMANDA MCCURDY:  And I had a short one for 10 feet for birdie and she conceded it.  And that was the match.
RHONDA GLENN:  Okay.  Questions.
Q.  The shot on 7.  Seemed to be the turning point when you made that up-and-down par from 150 yards in.  You said you hit 5-iron?
AMANDA MCCURDY:  Yeah, I had kind of a bad break I think on the tee shot and just hit a really good -- well, I just kind of punched an 8-iron up and I was about 150, but the wind was pretty strong.  And I tried to blade it.  I just hit it horrible with a 5-iron but it carried enough up there up that false front to get up there close.  I was glad I was outside of her.  I was glad to put that pressure on her and make that putt first.  I think that was really big.  And when she missed it, that was pretty big for me.
Q.  Did you know a lot about Paula and her past accomplishments?  Were you intimidated at all?  Were you fired up?
AMANDA MCCURDY:  I've played with her when she was 14.  I think.  And that was my best AJGA tournament.  Like the second one, the last one I played.  And she was good then.  And I followed her since and -- I haven't followed her personally, but I've, it's hard not to.  It's like Michelle Wie, you follow them.  And I knew she was a good player, but obviously I'm good enough to get to this point too.  And I try not to, it's hard not to because of the -- I don't have as much experience, but I try not to sell myself short.  And I know she's young and she's younger than I am, and even though she's got tons more experience.  But she's human just like every other player and I knew if I went out there and got on my game plan and got up on her early that that would be good.  And that's what I did.  And her putting just, she of course, obviously winning 6 and 4 she was not on her game today.  Flat out.  And I'm not ever going to say any different than that.  But really I played better too.  So it was a great day for me and she's a great player and she's got a good future, but I was not intimidated, no.
Q.  What AJGA event was that?
AMANDA MCCURDY:  The Robert Trent Jones.  It was right before I committed to go to school.  But she was 14 I was 17.  So and Nicole won it.  It was a big group.  It was a big deal.
Q.  Was that in Alabama?
AMANDA MCCURDY:  Mobile.
RHONDA GLENN:  When you talk about her reputation, did you at all have the feeling that you had nothing to lose?
AMANDA MCCURDY:  Well, that's just, that was just the questions I kept getting asked yesterday.  But, "Do you realize who you're playing and are you nervous?"  I'm like no, because none of you expect me to win so really why am I nervous?  What do I have to be nervous about?  And I think that obviously I came into this tournament as a no namer, even though I played decent in college golf, I'm, you know, I've been a decent player, steady player.  But nobody really knew who I was and everybody knew the marquee names and so really I did have nothing to lose, because if I lost, she's a good player, she's going where she deserves to be.  But I came in and played well enough to beat her, well enough to beat the other players that I beat to get here.  So it's a good position for me to be in.
RHONDA GLENN:  I think you did have a number of people though who predicted that you would win this match.
AMANDA MCCURDY:  Probably not, maybe.  I think, but at the beginning of the week I think before anybody knew, if they had said, well this is what it will be in the semis, I don't know if my name would have continued on to that point, to that other bracket.  People would have saidÂ  --
Q.  Your name wasn't picked at the NCAA women's amateur pool?
AMANDA MCCURDY:  I'm not -- I'm not betting person but I would like to say probably not for that.
Q.  Was there a point out there where you could tell she kind of started to get deflated a little bit.  Maybe 10 or 11?
AMANDA MCCURDY:  I think honestly where I saw it was on 3.  That's early, but just when she missed that putt and I knew that if I got up on her quick, that with putting, because that's what it comes down to is what putts you make.  And when she missed that putt and then on I think when I won 5 and I was 2-up, I couldn't think of a better position to be in.  Because I knew there were tough holes coming in, but 2-down and then on 7, like you said, I think that was really the turning point because I made that putt in front of her like I said, and I think that was huge that I got to putt before her.  When she missed that putt, even though she won the next hole, I still think something in her mind changed and in mine too.
Q.  Did you sense her feeling the pressure today?  There's been so much talk of her, this was her fourth straight semi-final in a USGA amateur event.  Could you sense it at all?
AMANDA MCCURDY:  I could see the frustration in her.  Because I know he she wasn't playing her best golf.  But we were both just getting in around, but I could see frustration in her putting for sure.  And on 5, on that drive, you could see she was just kind of getting frustrated.  But she didn't want to be down just like anybody.  And she was trying to do what she could to get back.  And 8 was a good birdie for her, which I should have tied it.  I should have made my putt.  But I think was big for me to come right back and birdie with the iron shot I hit in there.
RHONDA GLENN:  Was there any way to say that you had a point where you said, I've got it now?  I'm going to win this match.
AMANDA MCCURDY:  Yeah, when they said I was dormie.  I thought I'm good, I can tie her on one hole.  So because after yesterday when I was 6-up and I got it, I think that was yesterday?  Yeah.  And I got it down to 3-up, I learned not to ever take anything for granted.  So when I got 5-up with 5 to go I was like all right.  I can tie her on a hole.  So we're good to go.
Q.  Do you get the sense that maybe you're winning over the gallery a little bit?
AMANDA MCCURDY:  I think so.  That's the whole underdog story too though.  This is a really good town, it's, you know, I'm short, and southern and no one knows me.  And I try to be polite.  My parents did very well for me and taught me how to treat people.  And, yeah, it's been a joy.  I've had so much support.  And I expected some, but the feedback that I've gotten from the little kids the dad's that bring out their sons and everything, oh, look, she's short, you should see her.  So I think it's more of a height thing is why they like me, but it's been pretty neat.
Q.  Your dad described you as fiery and he said you two are butted heads way back when.  What's he talking about?
AMANDA MCCURDY:  Apparently I have been considered emotional since I've been here.  That's what people are saying.  But I don't know, if you're doing good, I'm going to show emotion.  Because it's hard not to feed off the crowd.  And he just, I guess, I don't know, he just likes me to be calm but it's hard to be calm when he's sitting there just nervous as anything and right beside me.  "What's this do?  I don't know yet."  He's just really, he's very nervous person.  And he makes me nervous, so we got to, I try to separate myself a lot from him.
Q.  You made quite a few cell phone calls down there.  Who were you calling?
AMANDA MCCURDY:  Well, I had 24 voice mail messages by the time I got done with dinner.  So those, they were just calling I actually had my phone on me.  So it was my family and friend back from Arkansas.  And all over.  Really.  And some of the competitors that I saw her that were calling me.  So it was pretty neat.
Q.  What competitors called you?
AMANDA MCCURDY:  Just one, Shannon, who was runner-up in the Mid-Am last year.
RHONDA GLENN:  Jane Park is fairly short as well, I mean, I don't think she's much taller.
AMANDA MCCURDY:  I haven't ever been around her.
RHONDA GLENN:  Haven't played with her or anything.
AMANDA MCCURDY:  No.
RHONDA GLENN:  So what do you expect tomorrow?  What's your attitude going to be?
AMANDA MCCURDY:  The same way that I've gone into every day.  It's worked for me so far.  Try to hit the fairways, greens and if you can get up early and then try to keep the hammer down on them.  And that's just because you're up early doesn't mean you're going to stay that way.  So just try a two hole lead is not enough, three is not enough.  Just try to keep building it up and if I'm lucky enough to be in a that position tomorrow.  And if not, fight like heck to get back.
RHONDA GLENN:  Have you ever played 36 holes in a match?
AMANDA MCCURDY:  Not in a match, well in college we play 36, 18 a lot.  And so this won't be the first.  And I don't even have to carry my bag, so this will be nice.  But not match play 36 I haven't ever done that.
Q.  How tall do you consider yourself?
AMANDA MCCURDY:  I've five one.  They measured me.  Some will argue that point.  But.
RHONDA GLENN:  61 inches, 61 inches of dynamite.
AMANDA MCCURDY:  I was glad to get over that five foot mark.
RHONDA GLENN:  When did that happen?  When you did you pass five?
AMANDA MCCURDY:  I stopped growing when I was 14.  My feet kept growing, but I stopped growing this way.  So I've been this high since I got my letter nerves permit.  That's kind of sad, but.
Q.  Obviously exempt into The Open next year.  You got to be excited about that.
AMANDA MCCURDY:  Yeah, I didn't realize that.  I thought had you to win to get it.  And then I found out, I think my dad just is beside himself excited about it.  But, yeah, I mean that's -- I mean these two tournaments that's what I, as an amateur, I mean as a professional of course The Open but as an amateur you dream of winning this and then you dream of winning The Open or at least being there.  And I tried to qualify a few times and it's nice to know I won't have to worry about that next year.
Q.  How many times have you tried for The Open?
AMANDA MCCURDY:  Two.
Q.  Ever got --
AMANDA MCCURDY:  I didn't do it this summer.  I've been to sectional both times.
Q.  How many times did you try to qualify for this?
AMANDA MCCURDY:  Last summer and I didn't make it and then this summer.  This is my second time.
RHONDA GLENN:  She qualified second low in Houston with 72.
AMANDA MCCURDY:  Um-hum.
RHONDA GLENN:  Okay.  We all set?
Q.  What do you do tonight like do you -- you said you're a boring person.  But I don't know, you're lying, but?
AMANDA MCCURDY:  I am.
Q.  What do you to do tonight?  Just sort of relax, watch TV go out on the town?
AMANDA MCCURDY:  No, no, I'm not that type of person.  Go hang out at the hotel.  My coach is here.  So hang out with her.  Find a hamburger somewhere.  Eat a hamburger, I have to eat one every night before I play.
Q.  Who is your coach?
AMANDA MCCURDY:  Kelly Hester.
Q.  How excited were you to see her?
AMANDA MCCURDY:  I was on the phone at midnight last night and she happened to be on my floor and I knew she was coming and she got off the elevator and I may the mistake of pointing out the fact that I was still up and on the phone.

And she told me to get off it and so I talk to her for a few minutes and then went to bed.  But as far as people go, she is my idol.  As far as that goes.  If you take away golfers and I look up to her more than anything.

It's awesome for her to be here right now.  She's the reason I am here.  Other than my instructor.
Q.  One other thing, I was talking to you yesterday the little interview and I'm going to try to hold it to you, you to it, if you win, are you going to do the souey call from Arkansas?
AMANDA MCCURDY:  The hog call?  Yeah.  Golf Channel already told me have I to do it.  On camera.  I didn't know you all said on camera.  I wasn't excited about that, but I will probably be so elated tomorrow if I win that I will do whatever probably, so.  You might want to catch me right after it though because I'll probably be pretty emotional.
Q.  Will you be a bigger name in John Daly in Arkansas if you win?
AMANDA MCCURDY:  I think that's hard to do, to be a bigger name than John Daly.  But maybe I can be up there with a little bit, held in a different regard maybe somewhere.  Along the lines.  But we'll see how it goes.
RHONDA GLENN:  Well, we like listening to you talk.
AMANDA MCCURDY:  Well, thank you.
RHONDA GLENN:  Thank you very much, you've been very gracious.
AMANDA MCCURDY:  Thank you.
RHONDA GLENN:  Good luck tomorrow.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT