U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2004
Amanda McCurdy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
RHONDA GLENN:  Amanda, you had her down by so much.  What, five after nine holes?
AMANDA MCCURDY:  I had her, I think it was 6 through 10, wasn't it?  6.  Because I birdied 10.  Yeah.
RHONDA GLENN:  Tell us how you got in that position in the first place.
AMANDA MCCURDY:  I just made a lot of birdies.  I won the second hole with a par, but I just made, after that I made a lot of birdie and I chipped in on number 5 for birdie.  So that helped for sure.  She was right in front of me too.  And she had a chip for par.  So that just won it right there.

But stayed steady, made another good chip on 7.  Almost made that one to win that hole.  Just putted well and chipped well and just hit the fairways and hit the greens and to keep it, to stay steady.  She was so much longer than me so I got to hit first a lot.  Which was good.
RHONDA GLENN:  That does help in match play.
AMANDA MCCURDY:  Which I did like.
RHONDA GLENN:  How far do you hit the ball off the tee.
AMANDA MCCURDY:  It all depends.  I lost a lot of yardage, but probably if you want an average, 240, 250.  But probably today not that far with the wetness.
RHONDA GLENN:  How far past you was she?
AMANDA MCCURDY:  Not as far today as I think she would have it hadn't been so wet, but probably like 15, 20 yard.  I'm just going by the average, but she just took some angles that I wouldn't take that made her go a lot farther.  But she hits the ball well.
RHONDA GLENN:  And then after you got 6-up she started to come back.  Were you playing as well or did your game fall off a little or did she just throw it at you?
AMANDA MCCURDY:  I was 6-up after 11 and then 12 I had a really good shot into the green and I just didn't carry it, it's kind of that false front and it kind of fell back.  She hit a really good shot in there to about, oh, five, six feet.  And I hit a good chip, almost made it.  But she made her birdie.  So I knew she was going to eventually win won with a birdie.  But I made par, I was going to make par just fine.

But 13 I 3-putted.  I missed, I just blew, I hit a great shot out of the bunker and just 3-putted it.  And I kind of got down on myself after that.  So I just handed that one to her.

And then 14 is a par-5, right?  I was inside of her for our third shots in.  She hit it to like 10 feet was going to have tough putt, I knew, but I just killed a sand wedge, tried to hit it 30 yard and hit it like 50.  So I don't know if I was adrenaline rushing or what.  I just know I hit it too hard.  And that made me go over the green and then I had an opportunity to tie her, but I missed like a nine foot par putt.
RHONDA GLENN:  So you made par.
AMANDA MCCURDY:  I made bogey she won with a par.  Because I didn't get up-and-down from over the green coming back.
RHONDA GLENN:  Then you righted your ship.  What were you thinking then when you lost three in succession?
AMANDA MCCURDY:  Because I knew, I mean, I had given myself enough of a cushion that I was probably going to be okay because at some point I was probably going to tie her again or beat her.  And I knew going into that par 3 that she kind of hit it off to the left and I knew she was -- nothing is an easy par on that hole.  Ever.  So I hit it on the green, on the front.  We both had to make like 6 foot par putts and I just told myself, just get it up there and stop trying to beat her early, just get up there and you have given yourself enough of a cushion, if you tie her you tie her and then you're dormie.  So I just tried to settle myself and tried to get it on the green like I had been doing and just putt like I had been putting.  Not trying to so hard to make anything.
RHONDA GLENN:  So you gave yourself a little talking to.
AMANDA MCCURDY:  I tend to do that quite a lot.  So that was a very aggressive one on that talking to.
Q.  Which hole was that?
AMANDA MCCURDY:  Right before 16 or before 15.  Yeah.
Q.  And you had lost 14, 13 and 12?
AMANDA MCCURDY:  Yes.  I should have only lost one of them.
RHONDA GLENN:  All set?  Thank you Amanda.  Good luck to you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT