RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 29, 2017
Ryan Ruffels
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Nice finish today.  How important is that for you?  I saw the little fist pump on the end for the par save to keep the momentum going.  Gives you a big jump in your step so to speak heading into Sunday.
RYAN RUFFELS: Yeah, I had a bit of a falter on that back nine there, 13, which is a really gettable hole for me because I can get my length off the tee.  I blew a drive right there and 14, as well.  So two bogeys in a row and I sort of slipped back.
It was a gutsy sort of 16, 17, 18.  Two good birdies on 16, 17.  Thought I made that putt for eagle on 16.  Yeah, it was important not to drop that one because I knew it was going to put me a few groups earlier and I wanted to be as close to the leaders as I can.
Q. Seemed to be a few times you were losing momentum but you made a great par on 11, you handled some bogeys well and you bounced back.  Was that a description of most of the day, had it going, hold onto it, get it back again?
RYAN RUFFELS: I don't feel like I've got quite my A Game right now, especially off the tee.  When I'm driving it well, I don't miss a lot of fairways.  I've had just a few sort of big misses off the tee, and when those happen, I've just got to sort of grit down a little bit and make a few putts, make a few par saves.  Like you said, that one on 11 was huge for me.  I did the smart thing, chipped out and made a par.
I feel like I'm doing well with keeping my head and holding it together a little bit.  My putter is hot, so when I get a chance, I'm converting a good percentage.
Q. You put yourself into contention come Sunday.  Had you did you get over the bogeys at 13 and 14?
RYAN RUFFELS: It was hard.  It's just such a low-scoring course that when you make a mistake like that, it's hard to get it back.
But yeah, I was proud of myself.  I felt like I hit a good putt on 16.  I'm not really sure how that one missed for eagle, and then to birdie 17 to keep the momentum and obviously that par on the last.  It was a gutsy day for me today.  I didn't quite have my stuff that I did the first couple of days but I was still able to scratch out a score.  So I think if I can sort a few things out off the tee and come out here tomorrow, I think I'll be in a good spot.
Q. You've played this course before and made the cut in 2015.  How comfortable are you on this course?
RYAN RUFFELS: Very much so.  I just feel like the tee shots suit my eye well for the most part.  Even when I'm not quite on, I can pick a side and miss it on and really make sure I'm erring on that side and I can still make birdies.  And then my putter is hot, and these are such good greens that if you see the line you hit it on there, it's never really going to miss.  There's never any bumping or anything like that.  Those two things are sort of why I like this place.
Q. What has this year been like, playing on the PGA Tour Latinoamérica and coming up and getting sponsor exemptions here; between the travel and getting acclimated to the professional golf lifestyle?
RYAN RUFFELS: Oh, I great.  I'm lucky because most people, maybe on the smaller tours don't get these opportunities.  So every week that I get out here is a great opportunity for me.
And we like to try and take advantage of them.  I had a bit of a rough stretch through the last sort of three weeks and sort of worked on a few things.  Worked really, really hard to try and get it back because I knew my game was good enough to be out here.  I just sort of had to prove it.  I feel like this week, it's starting, this is what should be happening a little bit more, so I'm happy to see that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT