AT&T PEBBLE BEACH PRO-AM
February 11, 2016
Ryan Ruffels
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Great way to get the tournament started off.  What was the key to playing out there today?
RYAN RUFFELS: I struck the ball really well.  Got off to a nice start, 4-under through five, which is always nice.  Almost holed out on the first.  It hit the pin and knocked it to six inches or something.  So it's always good when you get under the card early, and I just sort of held it on from there.
Q. How have you handled the transition to being a professional and the play, practice kind of routine that you have?
RYAN RUFFELS: I feel like I handled it quite well.  My results are starting to kick in a little bit.  I played all right at Torrey Pines.  Had a nice round today.  Haven't had much time to sort of prove myself, I guess.
But I played really good today, played good at Torrey Pines.  So I'm starting to get used to it.  The only thing that's different for me is I get my name on my bag and I get to earn money for doing what I do.  So I'm still doing the same stuff.
Q. The perks of playing on the PGA TOUR, what are the things that have stood out for you so far?
RYAN RUFFELS: Back home, they had a tournament back in the Australasia Tour last week.  I think the winner got about 18 grand, and I came 43rd last week, and I got 20.  So it's pretty cool, That aspect of it and the courses.  You get to play Pebble Beach like this, Spyglass, Monterrey Peninsula.  It's amazing the opportunities we get.  I think that's probably the biggest thing.
Q. Some of the other Australians in the PGA TOUR have they kind of reached out to you?  Have you played practice rounds with them?  What's that been like?
RYAN RUFFELS: I played a practice round with Jason on Tuesday.  That was great.  He's a great guy.  He's tried to help us out, me and Cameron Smith a lot.  Obviously, I saw him at the top of the leaderboard playing well, too.  So he's been great for us.
Aaron Baddeley has been a very good influence for me.  Adam Scott as well.  All those guys have been great and trying to help us out, which has been really awesome.
Q. What's your next event?
RYAN RUFFELS: I'll play Bay Hill.  So that will be awesome.  I got a few others in the works, but Bay Hill is confirmed, so that was nice.
Q. Nice to have some events to look forward to as well and just kind of pick up as much experience as can you these weeks?
RYAN RUFFELS: Exactly.  Every tournament I get is a new experience and that's something that I can build on.  And it's nice to see that people give me invites because, obviously, they see the potential in me, which is a nice little perk, and I just got to take advantage of it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT