FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 29, 2016
Ryan Ruffels
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. First goal achieved, you made the weekend on your first pro start.
RYAN RUFFELS: Yeah, that's pretty neat.  Obviously, I let a few slip late in the round, which was disappointing.  Would have liked to have got one more on the last two.  But that's all right.
I guess if someone said, you're going to make the cut this week in your first event, there's obviously a few nerves and it's fun to be out here on the weekend.
Q. You get a chance to spend two rounds trying to move up that leaderboard and get as many points as you can given those seven starts?
RYAN RUFFELS: Absolutely.  I have a good opportunity now.  The first step was make the weekend and now it's sort of a free hit out there.  I can have a bit of fun and hopefully make a few birdies and not so many bogeys.
Q. So your assessment of the first two rounds, like after -- when you get back and have dinner tonight, are you going to think about what kind of looking back on playing the South Course, especially today, are you going to sort of regret or think about doing differently?
RYAN RUFFELS: I played really good golf.  It's just a tough course.  You get sort of past the 10th hole and it's a grind in from there.  Even the 13th off that back tee today, you can't get there in two.  And you're hitting a tough shot in there for your third.  So it's just a grind from the 11th tee onwards.
Especially that last hole, I never been so nervous over like a hundred meter pitch shot.  So, it feels good that I'm done now and made the weekend.  But in terms of being in contention, it would have been nice to save a few late, but we'll work on that this weekend.
Q. Were you aware of the number?  Did you know you needed a par on the last there?
RYAN RUFFELS: Yeah, I did.  I actually hit it and I thought it was over the back, so I was sort of a bit scared of that.  But that's all right, I ended up good.  I would have liked to have holed that putt, but it was a good pitch shot under the pressure because, obviously, it meant a lot to me to make the weekend.
Q. Your pre-shot routine looks very similar to Aaron Baddeley, especially on the greens.  Is that just coincidence, is that golf Australia, is that just --
RYAN RUFFELS: I think it's a bit -- it may be golf Australia, I don't know, I did that for awhile.  And people say I putt a bit like Aaron Baddeley.
Q. Which is a good thing?
RYAN RUFFELS: That's a good thing.  He always leads the putting stats.  If I can putt like him, I'm not too disappointed.  So, yeah, I hopefully it's a sign of good putting.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT