FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 28, 2016
Ryan Ruffels
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
RYAN RUFFELS: That's probably the worst score I could have shot, which is actually kind of motivating for me because if I keep doing that and sinking a few putts it's going to be quite good from here, I think.   
 Q.  Just run us through if you had any nerves on the first or anything like that.  Like how were you feeling there, any different?  
RYAN RUFFELS: It wasn't as bad as I thought it was going to be.  I didn't sleep much last night, I was pretty nervous and anticipating that first tee shot for a bit.  Practiced that on the range for awhile.   
I got up there and hit a beauty down the first, tight little tee shot, hit a nice fade down there, which was good.  Hit a fairway and a green to start off.  Which settled the nerves a little bit and I was able to get in the round from there.   
 Q.  What did you like about the course in particular?  
RYAN RUFFELS: Yeah, it's somewhere I've played well before.  This whole area I sort of have had good rounds before, so I knew there was a lot of birdies out there.  I didn't make as many as I probably could have or should have, I guess.  And that's why I was only 2-under.  The weather is perfect and the course is in unbelievable shape.  So hopefully another good one tomorrow.   
 Q.  You've had some success on other side, so you're looking forward to hopefully three days there?  
RYAN RUFFELS: Yeah, it's funny the way I played today, I think it almost would have been better on the South Course because I hit the ball so well and hit a lot of fairways and stuff.   
So if can I keep the ball striking up, which you got to do on the South Course, then, yeah, it should be fine for tomorrow and hopefully post another good number.   
 Q.  There's not a lot of golfers that will say they play the South Course better than the North Course.  
RYAN RUFFELS: Yeah, I'm not -- I guess I'm not intimidated by the South Course.  I've played good rounds out there and obviously, it's a little tougher now.  The rough's up and that sort of stuff.  But yeah, like I said, I'm playing good, so there's nothing that's going to stop me.  If I keep playing like that, nothing's going to stop me from shooting low numbers tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT