SAN DIEGO STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 10, 2018
Ryan Agnew
Parker Baldwin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








UNLV - 27, San Diego State - 24
Q. Ryan, can you walk us through that first drive?  What happened?
RYAN AGNEW: Started off pretty good.  Got a couple of first downs, in the right direction, midfield, and a little miscommunication, bad throw.  Can't have that in that moment.
Q. Parker, you guys kind of dug that early hole and you didn't have the lead until late in the first half and found a way to work through that and lost the lead again.  What did that game feel like in terms of the inability to get sustained traction?
PARKER BALDWIN: Felt like a lot of games we played this year.  Played a lot of close games, and we've been able to pull it out at the end, and unfortunately we weren't there.  We can't rely on pulling it out at the end.  We've got to play better football all the way through.
Q. Ryan, with what's at stake, even though you guys have had a lot of close games, there was a lot in front of you.  You guys controlled your own destiny until tonight in terms of the title game.  Fresno in front of you, still had a chance to make it all the way to the title game against a team that's really struggled.  What does that mean in the scheme of things?
RYAN AGNEW: It's not good.  You never want to lose a game, no matter who the opponent is, especially at this point where we controlled our own destiny.  We've got to come in on Monday and have a great attitude, we've gotta have great leadership, because the season is not over yet.  We still have games in front of us, and we need to come out with the right mindset.
Q. Did they do anything defensively that changed in the fourth quarter?
RYAN AGNEW: No, they just wanted it more than we did and it proved on the final scoreboard.
Q. Parker, why do you think the defense couldn't hold the 11-point lead in the fourth quarter?
PARKER BALDWIN: Just complacency.  We got up 11 and felt like the game was in our hands and just got complacent.  Bad tackling at the end; that's partly on me.  We lost it.
Q. On a lighter note:  Can you talk about Tim Wilson?  You guys had a connection tonight.  He had a big game.
RYAN AGNEW: Tim had a great game, some great catches, two touchdowns.  But stats are cool to talk about when you win games, but when you lose, that's the only stat that matters.  Great to have a performance like that, but much rather have the win than two touchdowns, I believe.
Q. Were you surprised at all that you were pretty much considered for the rest of the game after Chapman went in?
RYAN AGNEW: Coach said they were going to go with who they feel comfortable with at the time.  Doesn't matter who is out there, me or Christian, and the offense is going to run the same way, and I think everyone on the offense trusts that and the coaches trust that.
Q. Ryan you said you have to come in and the season is not over, there are more games to play.  How do you get your head around doing what you said you guys need to do at that point and move forward?
RYAN AGNEW: We gotta play for the love of the game.  We all came here to San Diego State to play football because we all loved it.  We need to show that now.  We need to show how much we love the game of football.  We need to show how much we love our teammates, and that's it.  We've just gotta show the love for the game.
THE MODERATOR: Thanks, guys.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT