NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 17, 2008
Amar'e Stoudemire
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  What did you think of the end of the game, and how hot Ray got? 
 AMARE STOUDEMIRE:  I think it was a great game.  The fourth quarter is always a time when the All-Stars step it up a notch, and Ray just got hot.  I couldn't believe how hot he was.  We came up with an incredible run in the fourth quarter.  But Ray kept them in the game. 

 Q.  Hey, is there anyone you look forward to playing with in these kind of games or against? 
 AMARE STOUDEMIRE:  Well, I just like competing.  I think when you're among the All-Stars, it's a great chance to play with the best.  Same with playing with the Olympic team.  You're practicing with the All-Stars, which brings out the best in you.  That's why it's always so fun to play in. 

 Q.  Can you talk about playing with Chris Paul a little bit.  Did he deserve to be in the All-Star Game? 
 AMARE STOUDEMIRE:  Oh, yeah.  I think he's well deserved for Chris Paul to be here.  He's one of the top point guards in the league.  With myself being blessed to play with Steve Nash, but being able to play with Chris Paul here in the All-Star Weekend was phenomenal. 
 Looking forward to seeing him this summer. 

 Q.  Can you talk about it looked like Jason's going to Dallas now.  Can I just get your thoughts on that? 
 AMARE STOUDEMIRE:  I think it's going to help Dallas with the up-tempo game.  Jason's a future Hall of Famer along side with Dirk Nowitzki, it will be fun to see.  The West is back.  With the Lakers acquiring Pau Gasol, and Jason Kidd going to Dallas with the Suns acquiring Shaq, it's going to be a lot of fun. 

 Q.  What kind of host did you think New Orleans was this weekend? 
 AMARE STOUDEMIRE:  Oh, it was great.  I think it's great for New Orleans to have us here.  The hospitality that they showed here was amazing.  I think the NBA did a great job of lending a hand and helping out the city as much as possible, and it was great. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT