NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 18, 2007
Amar'e Stoudemire
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Before the season you predicted you'd be here at this game.  You were here, you played well.  Can you describe your experience at All-Star Weekend? 
 AMARE STOUDEMIRE:  It was great.  I had a great chance to play in front of some wonderful fans, and the All-Star Weekend was fantastic for me. 

 Q.  The Suns were very well represented.  You guys as a group have to be proud about that? 
 AMARE STOUDEMIRE:  No doubt about that, we have the coaching staff, training staff, and players, and it was a good experience. 

 Q.  Could you talk a little bit about the performance of Kobe Bryant tonight and winning the MVP? 
 AMARE STOUDEMIRE:  Kobe came out and played pretty aggressive.  He played pretty good defense out there. 
 As a team we was able to rally around him and get a win. 

 Q.  Were you disappointed at all that you didn't get the MVP?  Were you hoping for that?  It seems like you and Kobe were trading off scoring down the stretch? 
 AMARE STOUDEMIRE:  We had a good scoring thing going.  It was well deserved on his part. 
 He shot the ball out there well, he had six assists out there, so it was well deserved. 

 Q.  Everyone knows how strong you came back, do you feel you could show how strong the come back was from the knee surgeries? 
 AMARE STOUDEMIRE:  I wanted to come back and play hard.  We wanted to win, because the East won last year.  We played solid defense when we needed to and we did that. 

 Q.  Can you talk about Las Vegas as a host city.  Was this a good weekend for you guys? 
 AMARE STOUDEMIRE:  No doubt about it.  I definitely enjoyed Las Vegas, I hope the All-Star Game comes back here soon, because it was a lot of fun. 

 Q.  You said you thought you would be here, but a lot of people didn't.  Can you talk about the long road that you had back, I Jason Kidd talked to you about the microsurgery and everything you had to do to get back here? 
 AMARE STOUDEMIRE:  It was a long, rough season, it was a long season for me last year with me having two knee surgeries. 
 It was a tough rehabilitation process, it took a lot of work and dedication.  A lot of people didn't think I'd be here today, a lot of doubters out there.  I stay focused with my goals and I reached them. 

 Q.  How did this All-Star experience compare to your first one? 
 AMARE STOUDEMIRE:  My first one I was extremely nervous.  This one I was more relaxed.  I was able to really enjoy it and go out there and play as hard as I can. 
 FastScripts by ASAP Sports 
1 
2.18.07 A. STOUDEMIRE POSTGAME.doc 
1 

 visit our archives at asapsports.com 


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT