NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SUNS v LAKERS
May 28, 2010
Amar'e Stoudemire
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How do you feel today after such a dramatic loss?
 AMAR'E STOUDEMIRE: I feel great. We played well last night. Game-winning shot, offensive put-back. We feel pretty good about our chances. 

 Q. Do you take away anything knowing you came so close? 
 AMAR'E STOUDEMIRE: We got confidence. We always do. We're going to come out in Game 6 focused, give it all we got. We're facing elimination right now so we got no choice but to give it all we got. 

 Q. (Question about the last seconds of the game.) 
 AMAR'E STOUDEMIRE: Well, we knew we had a chance to tie it up. We needed a three. We drew up a play. First shot didn't go down, got a rebound, got it back out. Another chance at it. Didn't quite go down. Got another rebound. We felt great about that. 
 We did know that Kobe was going to get the ball with three seconds left. We tried to relax, regain our composure. Kobe got the ball. Well-contested shot by Grant. Put it up for the game winner. 
 Definitely wasn't nothing we was expecting, but it happens sometimes. We just got to regroup. 

 Q. (Question regarding attitude about winning.) 
 AMAR'E STOUDEMIRE: It's a great attitude, confidence. Every time you go into battle, you got to have confidence. We feel we have a great chance to win Game 6. It's not going to be given to us. We got to go in and take it. We all got to be ready to go. 

 Q. (Question regarding team chemistry.) 
 AMAR'E STOUDEMIRE: We're a bunch that don't give up. We got great pedigree, we got great heart. We will not give up regardless of the situation. 
 We had a great season. We're playing the defending champs, we're going to give it all we got. Playing Game 6, we got to get ready to take care of business here at home.

 Q. People are saying this might be your last game here. What are you saying to that? 
 AMAR'E STOUDEMIRE: If we don't win, it's possible. If we win, we have plenty more. If we can win this Game 6, going to Game 7, that will be great for us. 
 You never know. You know, this summer is going to be an interesting summer. Very important for myself and my family. We got to make a great decision. 

 Q. Emotional second and third quarters. What was your take on that? 
 AMAR'E STOUDEMIRE: We didn't quite get it going offensively. So, again, we can't afford that. We got to get it going. Regardless, we got to get it going. They have a hard time guarding out there. Going to try to take advantage of it. 

 Q. (Question regarding rebounding.) 
 AMAR'E STOUDEMIRE: The only thing I can say, we got to get the ball more. Got to take advantage of the matchup between myself and Gasol. 

 Q. (Question regarding opportunities.) 
 AMAR'E STOUDEMIRE: There was opportunities. Our offense was a little stagnant. We didn't quite take advantage of our situations. 
 You know, again, we played well enough to win. We had a great shot at winning the ballgame last night up till the last play. But we lost. Overtime, had a better chance of winning. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 AMAR'E STOUDEMIRE: Definitely makes you feel good. I thrive in there getting that last rebound, that last dropped shot, so... Didn't work out that way. 

 Q. (Question regarding the crowd.)
 AMAR'E STOUDEMIRE: Crowd is going to be phenomenal, I can tell you that right now. We're going to be ready to go from the start. I can't wait. You know, I really can't wait. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 AMAR'E STOUDEMIRE: I could play 82 more games. I feel great. 
 Tomorrow is very important. For one, we're facing elimination. If we lose, we go home. If we win, we got a chance to go to the finals. It's very, very important. We played all season for this game. We have to take advantage of it. 

 Q. Can you talk about the crowd here. 
 AMAR'E STOUDEMIRE: The crowd's been phenomenal. If I can get a crowd to wear a Band-Aid on their forehead like I will tomorrow night, it will be even better. The crowd has been great. In the playoffs so far they've been great. 
 I'm expecting a Band-Aid foreheaded crowd that's going to be rowdy and ready to go. Orange Band-Aid tomorrow. Turn it orange, baby, turn it orange. 

 Q. Seems like the door is open and it is definitely within reach. 
 AMAR'E STOUDEMIRE: It is definitely within reach. We have to take advantage of it. No second chances. It's just right now. 
 So we got to make sure we understand how important this game is, how close we are to reaching the finals, so... It's all about determination there. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 AMAR'E STOUDEMIRE: That's what they want to do. They want to make adjustments. They want to try to switch roles. Feel like if I'm scoring the ball, we got a better chance of winning the ballgame. Points in the paint. 
 They want to force Steve to be the scorer. But, you know, we're going to counter that. We got great players. We have to do a better job of scoring the ball. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT