NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SUNS v LAKERS
May 26, 2010
Amar'e Stoudemire
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. (Asking about Alvin Gentry)?   
 AMAR'E STOUDEMIRE: I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I see the same Alvin every day. So I'm not sure how he treats different people. But his character is contagious. He get as long with everybody very well, and that goes with the players as well.   
  
  Q. From one player to another, what impresses you about Louis?   
 AMAR'E STOUDEMIRE: Lou? He works hard. He's going to give you a lot of energy. He's going to rebound the ball well, he's going to block shots. You know, so that's definitely great to have him on the team because he's an energy guy for us and gives us an extra toughness down there in the paint.  
  
  Q. Alvin talked about how he's doing well. Were you happy for him when he was out there?   
 AMAR'E STOUDEMIRE: Oh, yeah. We love our guys. When they go out there and play hard as well as they did last night, it's a lot of fun to watch. It's great because you're only as strong as your weakest link, and our second unit has been phenomenal for us and they're extremely strong, which makes us a better team.  
  
  Q. Coach was saying a minute ago that you guys aren't going to really stop Kobe. He's got 35 and 10 plus in three straight games. Is there any realization that, Hey, Kobe gets his, let's just try to stop the other guys?  
 AMAR'E STOUDEMIRE: You've got to try to stop the other players. Kobe gets his numbers. He shoots the majority of his shots and you know he's going to get them up. He's very talented on the offensive end. He's going to get his numbers.   
 For the most part we have to contain the rest of the guys and make sure nobody gets off, and we're doing a good job of that so far.  
  
  Q. No one's been able to get through L.A., but you guys seem to be able to. Is there anything specific reason why, team-wise?   
 AMAR'E STOUDEMIRE: No, we've just got to make sure we come out with the same intensity we have in the past two games. We've got to make sure we bring it. We have to approach Game 5 as if it's Game 7, and just leave it out there on the court. It's a matter of will.   
  
  Q. Is it better to have a couple of wins in a road game?   
 AMAR'E STOUDEMIRE: Absolutely. I mean, the momentum we have, and the confidence that we have now will definitely help going into L.A.   
  
  Q. How are those other guys now, tied up 2-2?   
 AMAR'E STOUDEMIRE: We feel good. But we're not satisfied. We understand this is a long Series, and Game 5 is a very, very important game for us. Trying to get a win in L.A. is never easy, so we have to make sure we stay focused, and that we never get complacent and try to go out there and get a win.  
  
  Q. Does it help your confidence? I mean, Game 2, you made that run back and tied it. You didn't win, but you put together a come pleat game and you have the capabilities of it?  
 AMAR'E STOUDEMIRE: Oh, yeah, oh, yeah. We definitely can win there, so it's just a matter of us implementing our will. We've got to play hard; we've got to leave it all out there on the basketball court.   
 We've got to be very scrappy defensively, and make sure that we're offensively and just play as hard as we can.   
  
  Q. How fun was last night?   
 AMAR'E STOUDEMIRE: It was a lot of fun. It might have been the funnest game I've been a part of. It was so great to see the second unit play so well. It was a lot, a lot of fun.   
  
  Q. Tell me about that emotion on the bench?   
 AMAR'E STOUDEMIRE: Yeah, when Goran makes his move, it's always fun to see. We tease him all the time about his moves, and to see him actually do it in the game, we get very excited about that. It was great last night.   
 Channing hit his first three of the Series. So when that happened, we knew we were off to a great start.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT