NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SUNS v LAKERS
May 24, 2010
Amar'e Stoudemire
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Amar'e, how did it feel coming off the court, the sense of satisfaction last night after the win and after a day of confidence?
 AMAR'E STOUDEMIRE: It was great. It was a great win for us. Much needed to get that confidence back up the way it should be. We didn't play particularly as well the first two games, but we came out Game 3, played great.

 Q. (Off microphone)?
 AMAR'E STOUDEMIRE: Nothing. I mean they did a great job. We had a different game plan, the first two games we had a totally different defensive game plan and took advantage of it.

 Q. (Off microphone)?
 AMAR'E STOUDEMIRE: First game tried to take the shots off the boards. I wasn't concerned about the rebounds, more keeping the guys off. Did a good job at that. Gasol had four rebounds. (Indiscernible). Game 2 was similar. Focused a little bit more on Lamar Odom off the boards. Wasn't too concerned about grabbing it. So in Game 3 I just grabbed it. Grabbed it.

 Q. Is it going to be double teamed?
 AMAR'E STOUDEMIRE: Possibly. That's where I can catch the ball, double team may bring it (indiscernible) figure out a way to contain myself and also figure out what they can do offensively.

 Q. (Off microphone)?
 AMAR'E STOUDEMIRE: I was ready. First two games I was ready. I wanted to come out Game 3 and (indiscernible) and the guys did a great job of playing off that watching went to the zone defense.

 Q. How aware are you of what's being said around here about you, free agency, on any given day?
 AMAR'E STOUDEMIRE: The free agency talk has been going on since trade day talk for a couple of months. I don't quite get into it before the game.

 Q. How much do you hear -- are you aware what's going on? Are you just --
 AMAR'E STOUDEMIRE: I know what's going on. And it should be. Everyone wants to know what my decision is going to be most season. So what I do is -- I block it out on the basketball court. Win ball games.

 Q. Everybody knows you're available the last two years. After that can you still come back to that?
 AMAR'E STOUDEMIRE: Yeah. Yeah, definitely can. Even though during that time it was difficult to deal with as far as trade rumors. Doing a great job of rallying up and playing well and the ultimate goal is to win. So we've done a good job winning here.
 But the next step is to win a championship.

 Q. Have you seen the results in the second half of the season (indiscernible)?
 AMAR'E STOUDEMIRE: No, I felt the same. Still felt the same since -- I know I came back from the eye injury, I couldn't train all summer. Get the rhythm back, top basketball shape. And I have to get in great shape second half of the year.

 Q. There are times when you had the ball immediately went to the basket. Off balance and good looks and everything?
 AMAR'E STOUDEMIRE: I take what the defense gives me and the great thing I work hard in the offseason to come back with something new every year. Looks terrible for guys to go out there. And gives me more versatility on the basketball court where I take what the defense gives me. Sometimes they give me a tough shot. Some nights they play close, I drive to the basket. Some nights just making a play, making assists. Every game is different. 
 And every player, plays are different.

 Q. Have you ever played with a broken nose?
 AMAR'E STOUDEMIRE: Never played with a busted nose. Or a broken nose for that matter.

 Q. What do you expect out of Steve with a broken nose?
 AMAR'E STOUDEMIRE: He's going to play well. It didn't bother him at all. He came out played well in practice not really a factor.

 Q. (Off microphone)?
 AMAR'E STOUDEMIRE: I don't really tune into all the rumors, that type of stuff. So if it works, we've got to continue to keep playing that way, like going to figure out what we do better to score our defense. Gotta stay active.

 Q. (Off microphone)?
 AMAR'E STOUDEMIRE: Whatever works. However you can win. Win by any means. So zone defense, man-to-man, whatever it takes to win. 

 Q. You guys are going after (indiscernible), when you have big games, contact in that area. Maybe it's incidental?
 AMAR'E STOUDEMIRE: What happens when I drive to the basket, they swipe a lot. A lot of contact to the face, a lot of times it's hard to see because it's such a quick swipe with the fist, can't really catch it. But as you can see from the previous games, when my goggles were shifted, a lot of contact.

 Q. Got off to a quick start. How important is that for your offensive game? Talked to Alvin, he said he wanted --
 AMAR'E STOUDEMIRE: I felt great. I was ready to go. As I was the first two games, so Game 3 was. Game 4, take it one game at a time, see if we can get Game 4. 

 Q. (Off microphone)?
 AMAR'E STOUDEMIRE: Lakers will try to do better on the offensive end zone. We have different defenses, we're going to try to catch them off guard as well. Interesting match-up. 
 Not sure what they're going to do. But I guarantee you it's going to be slick. So we have to make sure we play hard and play smart and see if we can still get a win. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT