NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SUNS v LAKERS
May 21, 2010
Amar'e Stoudemire
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   AMARE STOUDEMIRE: We're doing good. We had a good practice today. Went over a few things, what we may be doing wrong out there on the court. So today was a good overall day for us.  
  
  Q. What's your sense of just confidence, what adjustments have to happen?   
 AMARE STOUDEMIRE: Well, we're going back to what we said all season long, making a few adjustments Game 1 and Game 2, didn't quite work too well we had to go back to what we know.  
  
  Q. How frustrating has it been for you personally?  
 AMARE STOUDEMIRE: Well, turn me loose, it's not fun. So it's been pretty -- pretty upset about the last two outcomes of the game.  
  
  Q. What about defensively out there having to try (indiscernible)?  
 AMARE STOUDEMIRE: We're doing everything that the coaching staff asks us to do. Front the post or double Kobe or set traps on Gasol. We're doing everything that coach asks us to do. They're just doing a great job of finding open spaces there and taking advantage of the high-low action. Doing a great job.  
  
  Q. Why do you think it will work now?  
 AMARE STOUDEMIRE: Well, we're going to change it up a little bit. We're going to do something a little bit different now for Game 3, see if it works.  
  
  Q. Where are you at emotionally?   
 AMARE STOUDEMIRE: A lot of fingers being pointed at me right now. But we had a great year so far. Last year we didn't make the playoffs. Now we're going back, Western Conference Finals.   
 I think it's been a success so far. Playing defending champs is never easy when you're playing great guys like Gasol and Odom. Those guys are huge. It's hard when you're undersized. We're playing as hard as we can, give it 100 percent. So have to try to make adjustments, see if we can win.  
  
  Q. (Question about criticism)  
 AMARE STOUDEMIRE: Only from your guys' radio station. You guys are the only ones pointing the fingers at me right now. I think from my standpoint, I'm doing everything the coaching staff asks me to do, every single thing, from fronting the post, to doubling Kobe, to helping out.   
 Those guys are big down there to take advantage of high-low, which they should be, with two seven-footers, they should take advantage of that. They've done a great job. Artest. Whenever we double Artest, 0 for 3. Didn't expect him to shoot the ball that well in the series. Our strategy was to late rotate to Artest. He's knocking down those shots now. So we have to kind of adjust on the fly.  
 It didn't quite work out well for us. So we're going to see what we can do in Game 3.  
  
  Q. Do you think that strategy sets you up to look bad in terms of the double team and all that?  
 AMARE STOUDEMIRE: It's okay. We win as a team; we lose as a team. So we're going to stay together. We're going to figure out what we're doing wrong, try to make adjustments in Game 3. And we're going to fight as hard as we can. We're going to get out there on the basketball court and see what we can do.  
  
  Q. The offense, just to get off offensively --  
 AMARE STOUDEMIRE: Who, me?   
  
  Q. Yes.   
 AMARE STOUDEMIRE: When it comes to me, I'm ready. It's very simple. They have a hard time right there guarding on the court. When it comes my way I'll be ready to attack.  
  
  Q. On the inside?  
 AMARE STOUDEMIRE: Haven't been too many posts, to be honest with you. A lot of my shots in previous games have been on the perimeter.   
 When I catch them on the post I'll be attacking, getting inside. So it shouldn't be too complicated for me.  
  
  Q. (Question about the matchup)?  
 AMARE STOUDMIRE: Gasol is very crafty in the post. Don't get me wrong. Offensively he's very crafty. He's great using his left and right hand. Phenomenal player. He has a lot of help with Bynum and Odom and Artest. The personnel they have on the court, you have to guard all those guys, not just Gasol. Makes it tough to guard a guy one-on-one because you've got to focus on everybody. He's definitely crafty out there on the court.  
  
  Q. Is it just an explanation of they're just better than you at--  
 AMARE STOUDEMIRE: They're defending champs. You can't take anything away from them. They're winning champs last year. We didn't make the playoffs. So now that we're...  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT