NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: DODGERS v PHILLIES
October 10, 2008
Brett Myers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Questions for Brett Myers. 

 Q. We couldn't tell the sequence whether we were watching tapes or not, but was there almost -- after the third one and you were on base, was there almost like a surreal feeling to the whole thing?
 BRETT MYERS: No, I actually looked in the dugout and shrugged my shoulders like I don't know what's going on. I would have rather gone out there and thrown seven solid innings and get three hits, but it worked out for us to where those three runs I drove in made a big difference in the game.

 Q. Were you going first to third all the way?
 BRETT MYERS: I don't know, I guess. I don't know. I looked at the ball and I was just like I gotta go, I guess. I rolled my ankle, too, halfway there, so that wasn't good. I have a mild sprain. But it's something that you can get over.

 Q. Which ankle?
 BRETT MYERS: My right one. 

 Q. Can you talk about the at-bat with Manny there, kind of what happened?
 BRETT MYERS: I made a good pitch on him. I mean, I looked at it several times. I'm not going to be the guy to make excuses. If I make a semi good pitch, I felt like I made a good pitch. We had been pounding him in all series. I threw a pitch that was up and in and off the plate. And he's a good hitter. He makes adjustments. And he was able to do it. 
 So it sounded like he got jammed a little bit, but it's one of those things. 

 Q. Was there a little bit of a "win one for the Gipper" mentality for Charlie today?
 BRETT MYERS: Yes, I went up to him as I was getting ready for the game. I told him, I'm going to win this for your mom today. So it was in the back of my mind, for sure. But he's been so good to us. We gotta show him some love, too, and my thoughts and prayers go out to his family dealing with this time.

 Q. And what happened, the pitch to Manny in the first inning, went behind his back? It looked like in the dugout you were talking --
 BRETT MYERS: It's Manny Ramirez. I'm going to try to throw at 100, especially in this kind of atmosphere. The whole thing for me was where I've had success was throwing him up and in. And in his third at-bat he finally got the one. So I tried to throw it too hard. It slipped -- the balls were a little slippery kind of slipped out of my hand but I was overthrowing to him and it got away from me. 
 The first one I was trying to go up and in on him, maybe get him away. I wanted to show him two in there so I could get him out away later.

 Q. Looked like you were talking to somebody about the grip on the way off the field. Was that the ump or not?
 BRETT MYERS: Mariano Duncan said you're going to get somebody hurt out here. I was like, The ball slipped out of my hand. I wasn't trying to hurt their best player. Because, in hindsight, if I hit their best player, they're going to hit one of our best players. I don't want to get one of our players hurt. 
 So I was just trying to basically trying to overpower him there and the ball got away from me. So I'm definitely not trying to hurt anybody out there. But I definitely need to pitch inside to be successful.

 Q. Do you think the ankle had any effect on the next couple of innings?
 BRETT MYERS: I don't think so. I didn't really feel it when I was pitching, but then, again, there's a lot of adrenalin going. And you don't really feel too much when you're out there with the way our fans were tonight.

 Q. Any thoughts if you guys are in a position where --
 BRETT MYERS: No.

 Q. You don't want to pinch hit?
 BRETT MYERS: I don't know. But I about broke my ankle tonight running the bases. No, definitely, I'm not going to pinch hit. Hamels has been our best hitter off the bench for pitcher-wise all year. I just get lucky occasionally.

 Q. What is happening with your hitting? Are you seeing the ball better, or is it just --
 BRETT MYERS: I don't know.

 Q. What's going on?
 BRETT MYERS: I don't know. Usually when guys are feeling good at the plate, I guess they really don't know what's going on. I'm not really feeling good at the plate. I've got four hits all year and I go out there and now I've got four in the post-season. I'm actually baffled as to what's going on, too. I mean, I just can't explain it. 
 But definitely I'd rather pitch, would have pitched better than the way that things turned out tonight.

 Q. That was kind of the question I was going to ask. But more specifically the first at-bat when you lined that single to center, scored the run. How big was that? Did that feel really good when you hit it?
 BRETT MYERS: I don't know, man. I mean, I've said it before. I'm not a very good hitter, but it kind of -- I got a pitch I could handle and I was able to hit the ball back up the middle, which I've been trying to do during BP, hit it up the middle. I don't take too much into my hitting and everything. I'd rather go out and pitch, like I said, instead of go up there and get base hits. 
 Because you know in the long run me being on the bases three times tonight and going from first to third then going from first to home, I mean, you kind of get a little fatigued. So especially when you're running, trying to score runs and stuff like that. But I'd much rather have went 0-3 with three punchouts and pitched seven innings. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT