BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
March 15, 2019
Bob Huggins
Derek Culver
Brandon Knapper
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Kansas 88, West Virginia 74   
THE MODERATOR: We are joined now by the Mountaineers from West Virginia, Coach Bob Huggins, student-athletes, Derek Culver and Brandon Knapper.  Questions for our student-athletes?   
 Q.  For either player, guys, take me through Kansas' 11-0 run right before halftime.  How did they take charge of the game right before the break?  
BRANDON KNAPPER: Like Coach said, we just didn't get back on defense.  Our transition defense wasn't good enough, and they was getting the rebound and pushing the ball up court.  We just made simple mistakes, basically, on getting back on defense and that's what hurt us.   
DEREK CULVER: Yeah, to piggyback on what Knapp said, we failed to get back in transition defense.  We weren't talking.  Just little mishaps like that can make a big difference in the game.  Like I said, we didn't get back on defense.  We weren't talking or communicating and we weren't knowing where we were supposed to be.  When you don't execute things like that it's kinda hard to make the game go in your favor.   
 Q.  Follow-up to that, is it lack of execution or fatigue?  You guys have played so much basketball at a high level over the last few days, which is it?  
DEREK CULVER: I don't want to make any excuses and say it's fatigue, but it kinda just comes down to lack of just paying attention to what's going on around you.  Like I said, I will be the first one to blame.  We just gotta go back to the drawing board and try to fix it.   
 Q.  Either of you, potential to play more basketball, is that an exciting prospect to try to continue to build off of what you guys have accomplished here over the last few days?  
BRANDON KNAPPER: Of course.  I mean, this team will be here next year, and like Coach said, we just gotta stay together and stay positive.  We've got to continue to work.  We don't come out and basically play the game that we learned how to play and just learn from this and basically build on to it for next year.   
DEREK CULVER: Like he said, we have to go back to the drawing board and figure things out.  It's always going to be fun to go out and play with my brothers again.  Like I said, blood sweat and tears, I would give everything for these guys.  Like I said, it's always fun to get another opportunity to get to play basketball with them.   
THE MODERATOR: Okay, Derek and Brandon, we will let you go back to the locker room.  Thank you.  Good tournament, guys.  Questions for Coach Huggins?   
 Q.  Coach, what defense miscues happened?  Derek mentioned down the stretch there in the first half, how was Kansas able to pull in front and stay in front?  
BOB HUGGINS: Grimes got hot at the end of the half.  We had our hands down and he just jumped up and shot it in.  I think he was the biggest reason or maybe the only reason for the run.  He was very good.   
THE MODERATOR: Coach, thank you for coming.   
BOB HUGGINS: My pleasure.   
THE MODERATOR: Good luck.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT