CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
August 27, 2019
Jin-young Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Alongside the world's No. 1 golfer, Jin-Young Ko. You're coming off your fourth career victory. In the middle of the week, you visited Niagara Falls. What was that like?
JIN-YOUNG KO: I went on Friday last week after Friday's second round, and I had a great time. I was a little wet from the water, but it was fun.
Q. Also fun winning your fourth event of the season. You're riding an incredible bogey-free streak of 106 holes. What's been the most important part of your game to stay so consistent?
JIN-YOUNG KO: I don't know. I was just trying to focus on my game on the course. Also last week was incredible, like a lot of crowds out there, and I played with Brooke on Sunday. It was fun.
Q. What was the funnest part of playing with Brooke?
JIN-YOUNG KO: Always happy to play with Brooke, and the course was amazing last week. I don't know what was the most fun part, but I like Brooke.
Q. This is your first time here at the Cambia Portland Classic. Have you taken a look at the golf course? What are your first impressions of the course?
JIN-YOUNG KO: Fairways are narrow and a lot of trees, like right side, left side, so a key is keep the fairways. And the greens are firmer, especially in the afternoon, so the greens are faster. It's a great course.
Q. Have you thought about that bogey-free streak at all at any point since the last time you made a bogey on the second hold of the third round of the AIG Women's British Open?
JIN-YOUNG KO: Well, I will try. I will try to keep the bogey-free run. I hope so. But nobody knows about how can I play, how -- how can I play the course. Just I will keep -- I want to keep the bogey-free round, but just focus on my game.
Q. It's your first time here in Portland. What made you come to the event this week? Did anyone say anything in particular about the tournament?
JIN-YOUNG KO: Yeah, Sue told me Portland is a really great city. Usually she doesn't like food. She doesn't like eating for food. But she said, can I go to vacation, I want to go to Portland. It's a really huge city here. That's why I will play here.
Q. That's quite an interesting reason. So your manager -- none of your Korean counterparts or friends on Tour had mentioned this event.
JIN-YOUNG KO: Yeah, many players told me about great food here and great music on the road, and then also great city. So I want to play here. But last year I was tired, so that's why I skipped this tournament. But this year I'm good with everything. I like eating for food.
Q. Last week you went to Niagara Falls in the middle of the tournament. Is there anything you have on the agenda this week?
JIN-YOUNG KO: Yeah, I will go to Nike store, Adidas, and then Patagonia or ice cream store. I went to Portland City Grill with my caddie and manager, and he bought steak for everybody, Elk, Caesar salad, everything. It was fun.
Q. Do you like eating different types of food as opposed to --
JIN-YOUNG KO: It doesn't matter. I like everything.
Q. You said ice cream?
JIN-YOUNG KO: Yeah, I like.
Q. Do you know Salt and Straw?
JIN-YOUNG KO: Oh, Salt and Straw.
Q. Have you gone?
JIN-YOUNG KO: I will try today.
Q. And then just going back to the course, it's tree-lined, it's tight, a little firm in the afternoon. How do you think that matches up to your game?
JIN-YOUNG KO: Well, I will trust my caddie, line, target, choice of club. Yeah, that's it.
Q. Is there any one thing that's separated you from everyone else this year to win two majors and win last week? What's the best part of your game?
JIN-YOUNG KO: Well, I think everything. Like from the tee and then to the green, everything is great, great game I think now. Especially just one thing is putting. Yeah, putting.
Q. What are your plans after this week? You've had quite a hectic summer. What are you going to do?
JIN-YOUNG KO: I will go to hiking, then I'm going to Korea. After this week I will go to Vancouver. My friends live there, so three or four days' vacation with her, and then great food.
Q. So it seems like you're actually finding a way to supplementing LPGA Tour life and your leisure, which is really interesting and something not a lot of people can do.
JIN-YOUNG KO: Yeah.
Q. So that's been a positive for you this year coming out from the Korean LPGA?
JIN-YOUNG KO: Yeah, mm-hmm.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT