U.S. OPEN
September 1, 1992
Shaun Stafford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 SHAUN STAFFORD:  Don't make me nervous.

 Q.   Have you ever played better?

 SHAUN STAFFORD:  How about this:  I don't think I have ever had
so much fun.  I just-- I was out there playing great tennis. 
I think I can play better, but I mean, I am not going to knock
the way I played.  But because if I would have played better,
I would have won.  So-- but I really enjoyed it.  I had a great
time out there.

 Q.   Did you think you were going to have a great time going
out there?

 SHAUN STAFFORD:  That was my plan.  I was, you know, going out
there on stadium court.  In the past, like I played Graf at the
French Open on the stadium and I played Conchita Martinez on the
stadium in Australia, totally froze, and played like a dog.  Just
because you want to go in there playing so well, you get so uptight
that you can't even play, but this time, I did not want that to
happen, so, I said, okay, let's us.  How exciting is it to go
to the U.S. Open.  You are an American.  You are going to be in
there-- what, 15,000 people?  I am not really sure, but they are
going to be screaming and yelling and having a great time watching
the match.  So I may as well have a great time playing the match
and I did.  That is because I played well, though.

 Q.   Do you think she is more vulnerable early in the tournament
like this when?

 SHAUN STAFFORD:  I think everybody is.  Just because you don't
have any matches under your belt, first rounds, and it is another
environment, you know, the court -- I mean, you are playing. 
You are practicing on the courts, but you are not playing matches
on the courts.  I mean, everyone is a little nervous, because,
you know, everyone wants to do well.  This is the first round.
 You want to get through the first round.

 Q.   Why do you think more players don't smile as much as
you do during that match and seem to have as good a time?

 SHAUN STAFFORD:  Everyone is different.  I don't know.  I have
no good answer for that.  I don't know.

 Q.   Are you always like that?     

 SHAUN STAFFORD:  I try to be.  I mean, sure, I have my sad moments.
 But, for the most part, I am a pretty happy person.  I feel --
I think I have had a good life.  So, no, I have lots of friends.
 I like my friends.  I like what I do.

 Q.   Did you smile that much when you were playing against
Graf and Martina?

 SHAUN STAFFORD:  No, I wanted to go crawl in a hole.  No.  I
was a little stressed.

 Q.   After you won the first set she seemed to obviously sort
of get a wake up call or back in the second one and then take
a big--

 SHAUN STAFFORD:  I had a wake up call other than that first set
too.

 Q.   It seemed the usual pattern, she would sort of get aroused
and win the next two sets. Then something happened in that third
set that got that turned around again.  What was it that turned
it back in your favor?

 SHAUN STAFFORD:  Well, not trying to be stupid, was I down 5-1
in the third?

 Q.   Yes.

 SHAUN STAFFORD:  That is what I thought.  Well, I mean, shoot,
I am down 5-1, I am, like, you know, great.  So I just relaxed.
 I mean, maybe I think I got a little uptight, maybe.  Maybe tried
to do too much.  I started flowing again, and you know, started
smiling.  I guess I smiled the whole time.  I don't know, but,
I don't know.  I just-- things started clicking again and I mean,
and I don't think she choked.  I think I played great points.


 Q.   Was there a point when winning the match overshadowed
just having the enjoyment?  The fact that you were trying to enjoy
it, was there a time you said, hey I am enjoying it.  Now I can
win this thing?

 SHAUN STAFFORD:  Yeah, I think that is how it happened when I
was down 5-1.  I was, shoot, I won the first set.  I was playing
great.  Now I am making all these mistakes, you know, let's get
back into the groove, and it happened.

 Q.   Does it ever cross your mind that the way you were acting
out there, having so much fun, can be a little tough on somebody
like Martina, a champion who is here for--

 SHAUN STAFFORD:  I mean, gosh, I have been watching her for years.
 She is always saying in her interviews, oh, I love tennis.  I
am having a great time.  So, I mean, I feel she probably feels
the same way out there.  Maybe she doesn't express herself with
a smile.  A lot of people always said, gosh, you are always smiling
when I am off the court.  That is me.  That is my personality.
 I think she has a great smile too.  You see her smile every now
and then.  I just happen to do it a little more, I guess, but,
I mean, I think she enjoys it as well.

 Q.   What was your record against her?

 SHAUN STAFFORD:  That is the first time I played her in singles,
yeah.

 Q.   Are you going to be upset tomorrow?

 SHAUN STAFFORD:  I don't think so.  It is going to be disappointing,
because, you know, maybe when I sit down with my coach he will
like say, gosh, if you would have won that point there, you never
know what would have happened. No, but, I mean, you can always
look at stuff like that, and dwell on it, but, I don't think I
will.  That was a great moment for me, and I am going to savor
it.

 Q.   At 4-5, in the third, you played a fantastic game.  I
think you had 3-4 winners, then you tied it up. When it was tied
at 5-5 you were riding all of the emotion.  What was going through
your mind?  Were you thinking, I am going to ride it all the way
through?

 SHAUN STAFFORD:  See if I can remember what I was thinking. I
don't know.  I was kind of looking in the corner where all my
friends were sitting.  They were like so excited, and I was excited
and I was just, like, okay, just keep doing what I am doing. 
I won 4 games in a row.  That is what I tried to do.

 Q.   How do you like how the crowd got behind you?

 SHAUN STAFFORD:  That was such a rush.  That was so awesome,
because, you know, it is funny, I always wondered what that would
be like.  It is great.  So I wish that was like that all the time.


 Q.   Any other questions?   


 End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT