WIMBLEDON
June 25, 2002
Jane O'Donoghue
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  How did you like playing on Centre Court?

JANE O'DONOGHUE:  It's fantastic.  I've been looking forward to it like for the last week  - to go out there, and I felt I did do myself justice.  I'm playing against the best player in the world.  I thought I did quite well.

Q.  You broke her serve. 

JANE O'DONOGHUE:  Yeah.  Venus served really well today.  The length on her first serve was really good.  I struggled to make a lot of returns.  I went out there and I enjoyed every minute of it. 

Q.  You seemed quite at ease.  You weren't nervous to start with?

JANE O'DONOGHUE:  No  -- well, 10 minutes before I went onto the court, I had a lot of butterflies in my stomach, which is understandable.  As soon as I hit the first ball in the warm-up, I relaxed and thought, "I'm going to enjoy the occasion and give a hundred percent."  I'll work hard now to get my next opportunity to play on Centre, because it's the place where everybody wants to play.  Now that I've had a taste of it, I want more of it.

Q.  When did you sense it might be difficult? 

JANE O'DONOGHUE:  Well, the first service game, she came out and served (laughter).  I thought, "I'll make her serve first, put a bit of pressure on (laughter)."  She came out and nearly did four aces, so she was quite loose.  Then I realized, "I've got a mountain to climb here." 

Q.  Did you feel the crowd got behind you?

JANE O'DONOGHUE:  Yeah, they were great.  The country's desperate for somebody in this country, for a British player to do well in the women's game.  Hopefully I've shown them that there is talent out there.  I'm only young, 19.  Hopefully in three or four years' time, they have something to shout about.

Q.  Can you explain to us why in this country where tennis is so popular, this hasn't happened?

JANE O'DONOGHUE:  I don't know.  It's a difficult question to answer, I think.  I mean, Tim Henman has come through the system.  If you are good enough, you will come through any system.  I believe I will come through the system if I remain injury-free and keep putting the work in.  So hopefully you'll see in a couple years' time.  There's quite a few youngsters pushing each other now, so we will have a couple players in the top hundred in the near future.

Q.  Why has the women's side not done as well as the men's as of late?

JANE O'DONOGHUE:  That's difficult to answer.

Q.  What is the British system for young people?

JANE O'DONOGHUE:  Well, we all go to school til we're 16.  I mean, the way I came through the system, I played five hours a week up until the age of 16, whereas my peers abroad, eastern bloc players, they played five hours a day from the age of 10.  They've already made up 20 hours every week of the year.  If you add that up over six years, that's why I'm a couple years behind.  I do believe I will come through the system.  I've just got to keep putting the work in.  I've shown that.  My ranking has gone up all the time.  I just have to keep injury-free so hopefully come through the system.

Q.  You seem to go in there with the attitude, "I could sit back and let Venus do whatever she wants or I can try to match her." 

JANE O'DONOGHUE:  Exactly. 

Q.  Is that fair?

JANE O'DONOGHUE:  Yeah.  I know how good she is.  I had to approach it that I was going to beat her, because there's no point stepping on Centre Court believing you're going to lose.  I approached it that I believed I could beat her.  I went out there and gave it my best shot.  On the day, Venus came up with some good tennis.  It's been in this environment all the time.  Playing the likes of Venus, Serena, Jennifer Capriati, week-in, week-out.  That's the way your game improves.  At the moment, because my ranking is lower  - I was out of the game six months last year  - it's difficult to play against these girls week-in, week-out.  But my incentive now, now that I've had a taste of it, I've got to try to get my ranking up so I do play these girls week-in and week-out.  You'll see my game go up and up and up.

Q.  Were you trying to hit the ball harder than normal?

JANE O'DONOGHUE:  Not really.  I play quite aggressive anyway.  You feel a bit rushed.  The pace of the serve is a lot quicker.  Every shot, you really have to focus where you're hitting it because she is such a great athlete and she covers the court so well.  I really had to focus where I was going to play the ball.  Sometimes you do find yourself maybe going for a bit bigger shot than maybe what you normally would.  That's only because of the way she covers the court.  You feel rushed, and you have to do that. 

Q.  If you take one thing back with you, what would it be from?

JANE O'DONOGHUE:  I want to play on Centre Court again because it's just a great place.

Q.  Did she say anything to you after the match?

JANE O'DONOGHUE:  No.  She just said, "Well done."  That was it.  She was nice.  It was good to see that she realized that it was kind of my day out there, and she respected me for that.  So it was nice of her to do that.

Q.  It looked like a lot of the shots, the forehands in particular, were even harder than the serves.  Was that correct? 

JANE O'DONOGHUE:  What's that? 

Q.  It looked like a lot of your rallies were even harder than the serves.  Is that accurate? 

JANE O'DONOGHUE:  I don't know.  I mean, I do hit the forehand quite hard.  Well, Venus hits it hard off both sides.  I felt very comfortable with her when I was rallying on my forehand side, and even the backhand side.  It was a case of she served good today.  It put a lot of pressure on me holding my serve.

Q.  What's next for you?  You're still in the doubles here?

JANE O'DONOGHUE:  Yeah, I've got doubles with Anna Hawkins.  I'm going to try to get into the mixed doubles with Martin Lee.  Again, we've drawn the No. 2 seeds in the doubles, so I seem to be  -- I'm against it (laughter).  I mean, I've got a great opportunity again to go out there and enjoy playing my first Wimbledon.  If you would have said to me a year ago, "You'll be playing on Centre Court against the defending champion," I wouldn't have believed you because I had such a hard time when I was injured for six months.  I've come back stronger and hungry.  After having a taste of it today, I'll be working even harder to get back out there again.

Q.  Your next tournament?

JANE O'DONOGHUE:  I'm going to Casablanca to get into a tour event, hoping to get in that.  Like I said, I have to move my ranking up and play these better girls week-in and week-out.

Q.  Barry Cowan did well again.  You must be weary of going away and letting it slip. 

JANE O'DONOGHUE:  I don't think that's going to happen, no. 

Q.  If you had to tell somebody how to beat her, what would you say?

JANE O'DONOGHUE:  Well, you've got to get  -- the serve, on her day, when she's playing her best tennis, she'll beat anybody, and everybody knows that.  You really have to stay with her in the first couple of games and test her, because once she starts to unleash, she's very dangerous.  I didn't feel I played enough returns today, and that was the difference. 

Q.  Was there one shot that's like a miracle shot you hadn't seen before?

JANE O'DONOGHUE:  From her? 

Q.  Yes.  One that stood out. 

JANE O'DONOGHUE:  It was a set and 5-1 to her.  I thought, "I'll serve-volley here."  I serve-volleyed, hit a great first serve, came in, hit a great volley to the corner.  Nobody else on the women's tour would make that cross-court forehand.  I was waiting for the down the line.  I thought, "There's no way on the serve she can make it cross-court."  She took two strides, and she was there, bang, winner cross-court.  I just thought, "Too good."  That's what you're dealing with.

Q.  You were trying to G up the crowd.  Did you feel they weren't being noisy enough for you?

JANE O'DONOGHUE:  I thought they were great.  The crowd were fantastic.  When I won my first game, I told them to get behind me.  I just enjoyed the whole atmosphere.  It was fantastic.  I thought the crowd were really good to me.  It was nice. 

Q.  Will Young played a part in your preparations.  You had a slightly unusual picture of Venus Williams ahead of that game. 

JANE O'DONOGHUE:  I did visualize her in a different way.

Q.  Go ahead. 

JANE O'DONOGHUE:  I'm not going to say what I visualized her as (laughter).  No, I mean, you can't really step on court thinking "This girl is the greatest player," whatever.  I just approached the match in a positive way and said, "I'm going to take the game to her," which I felt I did do.  On the day, she was too good. 

Q.  What about Will Young?

JANE O'DONOGHUE:  I do listen to his music because I think he's got a great voice.  So, yeah, I listened to  -- I watched a lot of the Pop Idol.  So I got into it.  But Will Young, I listen to his music all the time.  He's very good. 

Q.  What pleased you most about your game today?

JANE O'DONOGHUE:  Just the way that I went on court.  It was such a big match for me, the biggest match of my career.  I went out and felt I did myself justice.  I was loose and really took the game to her.  You know, I wish I'd got a few more games or what have you.  But that will come in the future.  I've just got to keep working at my game, getting it bigger, getting my serve bigger.  It was a great experience for me today.  It shows me where I am at against the best in the world. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT