UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA SANTA BARBARA BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 14, 2014
John Green
Alan Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







<span style="font-weight:normal; "></span>
Q.   What was it like to play against KU ’s defense? 
JOHN GREEN:   They're a very good defensive team.   We knew they were going to pressure the ball, try to get in the paint and try to get easy steals. We had a couple of silly turnovers.   Take those away and the free-throw battle away, I think we would have still been in the game.   But I felt like we were a little rushed at times and when we capitalized and stayed patient on offense by getting the ball inside and getting the shots we needed to, just didn't make enough.

Q.   Did the atmosphere contribute to the slow start?
ALAN WILLIAMS:   Well obviously being in front of 16,000, it's a different atmosphere.   It's something that you really never get to experience too much until you come to this home of college basketball.   It was a great opportunity for us and it was a great environment.   But to answer your question, I don't think it changed the way we shot the ball.   I think we just didn't make shots.   You had guys out there you know uncharacteristically missing shots.   That's something that we're not accustomed to.   We're a better shooting basketball team than we showed out there today. 

Q.   What was it like emotionally getting to play after three years (of being injured)?
JOHN GREEN:   Growing up as a little kid, it's a dream come true.   Why not let this be your first game? At Allen Fieldhouse to play the number five team in the nation, I felt great out there.   First game really being back as a Division I player.   I fouled out, I take full blame for that.   But I think that I had a good feel for the game for missing three seasons with multiple injuries.   I'm only going to get better and coaches know they still believe in me and my players still believe in me.   But I love the atmosphere, I love the crowd, I love my team and I just thought it was a great game.   It was a good battle between two good teams. 

Q.   You are putting up All-American numbers, were you a national recruit?
ALAN WILLIAMS:   I don't think so.   I don't think so.   I didn't have a lot of offers throughout high school. 

Q.   Why do you think that is? 
ALAN WILLIAMS:   Undersized maybe.   Didn't have the right exposure.   Whatever it may be.   The coaching staff here at UCSB saw something different and they have been there for me through everything. First, I'm just extremely blessed to play for Coach Williams and to play for this team and to play for the university that's as well recognized as UCSB and just get a good education from there and play basketball against schools like this is awesome. 

Q.   What was it like being matched up against Cliff Alexander?
ALAN WILLIAMS:   I think him knocking down those shots that's what people wanted to see from him.   It was a bit tiring, but at the same time my teammates gave me some pretty good looks and I found some open teammates and I think that's what the thing is to bring harmony. Somebody is going to be open and we just have to keep working on cutting and moving without the basketball when I get double-teamed. 

Q.   What kind of potential to you think Cliff has?
ALAN WILLIAMS:   I heard about him, but didn't know much about him until today.   Obviously, the guys here are pretty high on him.   I think he has a good chance.   He's long, athletic and he's shown that he can knock down that 15‑footer.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT