U.S. OPEN
September 4, 2011
Vera Zvonareva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 V. ZVONAREVA/S. Lisicki
  6-2, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. How well do you feel you're playing right now?   
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Yeah, you know, I think I played a very consistent match today and I think I was able to raise the level of my game compared to my three previous matches. I'm really happy about that.   
 Started off well, and then didn't let her find her rhythm in the first set. Then she started playing a bit more consistent in the second, took a lead. I was happy I was able to hold my serve and then break her and eventually win the match in two sets.   
  
  Q. Do you feel like you'll have any advantage over Sam because she's played two really long matches?  
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Well, yeah, I have another day off before. I know that Sam is experienced player. She's a fit player. But we will see. You know, that's something I'm not really thinking about.   
 The most important thing is to concentrate on myself and try to bring the best out of myself when I step on the court and when I have to face her after tomorrow.   
 I remember we had tough matches. Last two matches took -- I think both matches took like almost three hours. Yeah, you know, we will see how it goes. But the most important thing is for myself to concentrate on my own game.   
  
  Q. Did you see any of that tiebreak?   
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Well, I haven't seen. I heard it was a long tiebreak. I haven't seen. Of course, I was preparing for my match.   
 I remember once I played a tiebreak and I think it was 18-16 or even 17-15 in the final set in San Diego. It was against Myskina. It was a very long one. You know, it's not easy, but I think it's something that makes tennis exciting, and it's always nice to see those kind of matches.  
  
  Q. Did you win that tiebreak?  
 VERA ZVONAREVA: No, I lost in that one in the third set. Anastasia had to go back on the court. We played a night session, and she had to go back on the court the next day. I think she lost to Lindsay Davenport like love and 1 in 30 minutes. She told me she was not able to move on the court.  
  
  Q. Sam's developed quite a good record against you. Any sort of reason you put that down to at all?  
 VERA ZVONAREVA: I don't know. The record is one thing. New day is a new day. It's a new match. We always had tough matches. So, you know, it was like 50/50. She won those.   
 There's nothing I can do about it right now. But I can go on the court after tomorrow and try to change it a little bit. I will have to play very good and I have to play very consistent, but I will try to prepare myself the best I can and we will see how it goes.  
  
  Q. What have you learned about her game from playing her so many times?  
 VERA ZVONAREVA: You know, what can you learn? She's a powerful player. She serves really well. She puts a lot of spin on the ball, heavy topspin. That's pretty much it.   
 You know, each surface is a little bit different, conditions are a little bit different. So you always have to make some adjustments. You know, I think the most important is to serve well, to try to return well, and then hang in there in the rally. Then we will see who is going to be better player.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT