U.S. OPEN
August 29, 2011
Vera Zvonareva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 V. ZVONAREVA/S. Foretz Gacon
  6-3, 6-0 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Vera.   
  
  Q. Thoughts on the match?   
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Well, it was a first-round. It is never easy to start a tournament, but I think I played pretty well. I played her a long time ago so I didn't really know, what to expect. It took me some time to adjust, to try a few shots, but then I figured it out.   
 I think I did pretty well. I tried to stay, you know, aggressive throughout the match. Had a few unforced errors, but overall was pretty good.   
  
  Q. Kind of an unusual entry into this tournament with the hurricane in New York yesterday. Talk about what yesterday was like for you.   
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Well, first of all, I hope everyone is safe, everyone is fine. But, yeah, it threw off a little bit of our practice routine before the tournament. Usually I do not take day off before the tournament.   
 But, well, you know, it happened still I didn't play tennis yesterday. Some players went to play indoors. I didn't, but I still went to the gym. I did my footwork drills, some drills with the racquet as well.   
 But, yeah, it's a little bit different the first time I'm in a situation like this. But on the other hand, there are some days or some tournaments where it happens where it rains the whole day and matches were delayed, but never like before the first day I have to play.   
 So, you know, I adjusted to it pretty well. I think I coped with the conditions pretty good. I feel like I was actually pretty fresh today. It's always nice maybe to have an extra day, easier day, before the tournament.   
  
  Q. You mentioned that first matches are extremely difficult. Normally you would think that wouldn't be the case. Why would first matches be so difficult?  
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Well, we travel around the world. We play tournaments in different cities, in different countries every week, and there are different conditions at each tournament. We play with different balls. We play on a different surface. We have to adjust to it.   
 No matter how much and how long you practice before the event, matches and practices are absolutely different the way you have to focus, the way you have to play out there.   
 So always the first match is sort of finding your rhythm, and you never know what to expect. Also I played an opponent, she already won three matches in qualifying, so she already got used to the conditions, to the balls, to the courts and everything.   
 For me, it was like a first time out there. That's why you feel a little bit maybe discoordinated maybe.   
 If you play on clay, you have to play certain game. When I'm coming from another tournament, I adjusted to those conditions. Now I have to readjust as well. Maybe here court is a little bit faster and the ball is traveling through the air a little bit faster, so maybe you need to take the balls a little bit earlier, maybe you need to stay a little more aggressive.   
 So all these adjustments, you try to make it happen in the first match, but you can still miss a little bit there and there. So they're always difficult. And if you don't find your rhythm, you know, there are tough opponents on the other side, and they can use it. Then you never know what's going to happen.   
  
  Q. You come in as the second seed. Talk about coming in as the No. 2 seed and the opportunity to showcase your talents in this atmosphere, in these stadiums.   
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Well, always excited about playing on a big court because it creates a great atmosphere. It motivates us a lot. That's what I've been practicing all my life for, you know, to go out there on big stage and try to play my best tennis out there.   
 You know, of course, like I said, there are different conditions. Once you used to play on the side courts, you feel like you're playing a little bit in a box out there. And here you have a lot of space. It's a little bit different.   
 But, you know, I like it. I think over the past few years a lot of matches on the big courts, and I'm really enjoying that atmosphere. I really like it. You know, sometimes when you have to play on a side court when nobody's watching, it's not fun anymore. You practice all day long and you want to go out there and play on a big stage.  
  
  Q. Is it different coming in as a second seed in terms of expectations of yourself?  
 VERA ZVONAREVA: You know, I never pay attention to what seed I am. I never look at the draw. I have no idea who I'm facing. If I win my match, I will ask my coach, Okay, who is my next opponent? That's it. That's how I think. That's what helps me to stay focused on what I need to do, because I always try to focus on myself but on my game.   
 I don't really think about all other things that are going around. I never look at the ranking. It's not something that really matters to me a lot. So, you know, doesn't really matter for me. I always believed in myself no matter what my ranking, no matter what my seeding is. I always believe if I can play my best tennis, I can beat anyone. That's what matters.   
 But I have to go out there and try to play my best tennis every day. It's not easy. It's difficult. But, you know, that's how I want it.   
  
  Q. Are you playing your best tennis?  
 VERA ZVONAREVA: You know, if you ask me personally, I will never tell you I'm playing my best tennis, because there are some things that I'm always not happy about (smiling).   
 But I think I'm playing good tennis overall. You know, I think I will never tell I'm playing my best tennis till I win the whole thing.   
  
  Q. As the second seed, you're still not a household name. Do you see this as an important tournament for you to advance far, to become a household name, and to get more people in here?  
 VERA ZVONAREVA: That's probably the last thought on my mind. I want to go out there and play deep into the tournament because it is a Grand Slam, because it is prestigious, because we got the best field in the world here.   
 That's where I want to perform the best I can just because I love tennis, I love what I do. I'm a professional athlete. You know, that's how I see it.   
 But all other things that go around with it, yes, they are part of the job. But what matters to me, it's my game and my performance.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT