QATAR LADIES OPEN
February 26, 2011
Vera Zvonareva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







V. ZVONAREVA/C. Wozniacki
  6-4, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. How does it feel to win your first Qatar Ladies Open?
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Well, I'm very excited at the moment. It was definitely a special moment for me on the court, and, you know, I was trying to fight for every point out there, not really thinking. And then when I won that last point, I was, you know, so happy.
 It was definitely something special for me, and I think I'm still excited. I'm happy, you know, more than ever before at this moment.

 Q. Your 11th title. Must be quite sweet for you. Could you compare this victory with the US Open victory in the semifinals?
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Well, it's different, you know. It's always special to win the tournament, and I think I played some good tennis today in the final, and it definitely means a lot to me.
 I don't think I can compare this to any other matches. It's just totally different moment, and I'm enjoying it. You know, hopefully I can have more great moments in the future, but at the moment I'm just trying to live this day and just be happy.

 Q. Was it a victory of believing in self or... 
 VERA ZVONAREVA: You know, I was not thinking about the final at all. I was into the match and thinking it's another match, just another tough challenge, and I was trying to focus on every point. That's it. 

 Q. You were solid in defense and you were aggressive. Is it the key of your victory today?
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Well, I think everything is the key today, because when you are playing against such a good player like Caroline but also No. 1 in the world, you've got to be good at everything. You've got to be able to defend well. I've got to be able to attack well. You know, one thing, you know what you have to do, but another thing is to be able to produce it. 
 I think today, you know, I was able to produce some good tennis. You know, I was really focused throughout the whole match, and I didn't really have, you know, ups and downs. 
 If I had some ups and downs in the previous matches, I think today I played a very good, clean match. I think that helped me a lot to win.

 Q. You realized with Love-2 it was very important to win these points?
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Well, every single point is important, but especially when we have those long rallies with a lot of shot exchanges, and, you know, with dropshots, lobs, and of course all those points are important. You run a lot, you move a lot, and then you want to keep your focus for the next point.
 But, you know, I think overall, every single point is important when you play against Caroline, and especially in the close matches like this. So I was not thinking about, you know, that it was a long rally or short rally. I was just thinking, okay, I won this point. I've done something right. Keep focusing and try to win the next one.

 Q. What was the worst moment of the tournament during the match before against Jankovic or Hantuchova?
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Well, I think, you know, I kept fighting no matter what. I was not really happy the way maybe I played in my quarterfinal or semifinal. I was not totally satisfied, because like I said, I had some ups and downs. There were some good moments but also bad moments, but I kept fighting no matter what.
 I'm really happy that I was really able to play better tennis today.

 Q. What is your positions considering the No. 1 position in the WTA? This is your main goal, or this is a Grand Slam victory?
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Well, you know, I'm not really thinking about ranking. I'm not really a ranking person. I know that if I play well and I win every single match, the ranking will be there and I will be No. 1 in the world, but in order to do that, I have to win every single match.
 That's how I always think. I'm just, you know, trying to live in the moment and take it one day at a time and give my best all the time, and whatever happens happens. I don't really think about winning that title or reaching No. 1. I'm just trying to do my best all the time.

 Q. You played well for sure tonight, but do you think that Caroline didn't play good tonight?
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Well, I don't think about what happens on the other side of the net. I have to, in these kind of matches, I have to concentrate on myself. I have to be focused and I have to play my game. If I start thinking about, okay, she's playing good or bad, then I will never win the match.
 So I would not assess her game. You know, I'm happy I won and that's it. 

 Q. Towards the end you remember that the ball was in and it was called out and you ran out of your chances for review. What did you feel that time?
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Nothing. Really, I felt like, okay, I thought I would have advantage, but now it's advantage to her, so I was just thinking, okay. I played a right shot and it's just a little bit out. I've done everything right, so next time if I have the same chance I will go for that shot again, because it was a winning situation for me. I just have to be maybe a little bit more focused, a little bit more precise with my footwork, and that's about it.

 Q. Will you come back to Doha?
 VERA ZVONAREVA: It's too early to say, but for sure I'm enjoying playing here. You know, I always have played some great matches here. I have great memories. I have so many fans here that have been supporting me for the past few years, and I'm definitely looking forward to coming back, and, you know, if I'm healthy and everything is good, for sure I would love to come back. 

 Q. Where do you go from here now?
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Home. I'm going home.

 Q. Next tournament?
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Next tournament, Indian Wells; Indian Wells and Miami, two big events in the States.

 Q. I want to ask you, today you played a special technique. According to how she plays or you just played your own way?
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Well, both. You know, first of all, when you play top players, you have to play your game. You have to do everything that you're good at, because if you are doing the things that, you know, you're playing the game that you are strong at, you can hurt your opponent.
 But at the same time, of course there are some tactics, and you have to adjust to every single opponent. You cannot play everyone the same way. 
 I think it's about finding the right balance, doing both things. If I'm able to find the right balance, I believe I can play the very good match, and I believe I can beat anyone on the other side of the net.

 Q. Do you feel pressure because people want you to win the Grand Slam after two finals? 
 VERA ZVONAREVA: No, not at all. You know, it's not something that I'm thinking about. I really -- I never read press. I never think about what people say. I'm just trying to enjoy my tennis and trying to, like I said, trying to give my best every day, practicing and improving. 
 Then at the end of my career, I will look back, and I will say, Okay. I gave my best. That's what I achieved. That's what I achieved. I'm proud as long as I'm trying my best every day. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT