DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS WOMEN
February 16, 2011
Vera Zvonareva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 V. ZVONAREVA/R. Vinci
  6-3, 6-1 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Your reaction to the win. It must be nice to get it over in straight sets in a little over an hour?  
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Um, well, definitely. It's never easy to play Roberta. She's a tricky player. It was a tough match. It always looks a little bit easier from the side. On the court it is never easy.   
 I think I managed it really well. It's never easy to start the tournament and to play your first match. You're still trying to get used to conditions. The ball is flying a little bit here, so you have to make some adjustments.  
 I think I'm pretty happy the way I managed the match. I had some unforced errors out there, but at the same time I had some great points.   
 So I'm happy overall. Just looking forward for the next one.  
  
  Q. As you've just said, obviously you got a second-round bye, where someone like Roberta has played already. Is it to some extent a disadvantage to have a second-round bye? You come in pretty cold.   
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Well, you know, you can look at it both ways. I played a lot matches since the beginning of the year, and for sure is helps to have a bye, because sometimes with a travel and all that you need some time just to maybe have an easier day and recover physically, especially when you go deep in the tournaments.   
 But on the other hand, yes, it's always better to play a little bit, get the chance to play a real match in real conditions to get through. And then you really feel that you're improving for the next one. So it goes both ways.   
 But I think overall, it helps me a little bit, because I had, you know, two days to practice and take some maybe easier days and recover physically from my previous tournament.  
  
  Q. Roberta's slice backhand gave you quite a few opportunities to come in and attack the ball on a fast court. Were you perhaps surprised by that tactic? Seemed a bit strange on a fast court that you were given an opportunity to attack almost.   
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Well, that's her game. Her slice is very low and you have to manage. It gives trouble to a lot of players. I knew that I will have to take an opportunity and go for my shot. That's what I was doing.  
 But, you know, it looks that it is an opportunity. But on the same time the ball stays very low on the fast court and skids, so you really have to concentrate and move your feet to go around in order to execute a good shot. As soon as you lose your focus, you will miss the shot.  
  
  Q. You seemed to hurt yourself on a stretched volley in the second set. Are you okay?  
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Yeah, I just made a weird step and just something bother me for just a second. As a player, you're always careful, especially I been through so many injuries in my career.   
 But it's nothing. Just after five seconds it was nothing. Just when you walk and you step on something you feel the same thing. Nothing bothering me.   
  
  Q. Seemed like you took a few games to get warmed up and settled, and then you felt much more comfortable.   
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Um, well, in the beginning of the every single match, you start and you play the match against different opponents all the time. So it takes time a little bit to get adjusted.  
 Today it was the same. You know, I tried to figure out what she wants to do on the court today, and I tried to find my footwork, you know, the court, to feel the court really well. I tried few different shots, made some mistakes, then I made some adjustments, and then it was already much better and much more consistent tennis.   
  
  Q. You said time to figure out and understand the game, but you're played her many times before. Every match is different?   
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Yes, every match is different because we play in different conditions. Some conditions you have heavy balls and they don't fly. Sometimes you have a slower court where the slice stops and you really to have get it.   
 On this court, the ball is very light. Her slice skids. So if you just try to get to the ball and just hit it, you will probably overhit it and your ball will go like three meters out. Here you have to wait a little bit longer.  
 Once you make those little adjustments, you figure out how the ball bounces on the court, how it flies here, then you already know which shot you should pick. Depends where you are on the court.   
  
  Q. Your thoughts for the rest the tournament, how you're feeling today, and looking forward.   
 VERA ZVONAREVA: On, I feel good today. I'm really happy right now. At the moment, I'm not thinking about anything else farther than that. Right now I will just go stretch, recover, and then we will see after.   
 I'm just looking forward for my next match. That's about it. Not thinking about anything else.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT