AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 27, 2011
Vera Zvonareva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







K. CLIJSTERS/V. Zvonareva
  6-3, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. You met a very in-form Kim today. 
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Yeah. I think she played a very good match, very clean match. I tried to hang in there. I knew what I had to do, but I think she was, executing her shots really well.
 The quality my shots weren't maybe good enough to hurt her today. She was playing fast, and that maybe affected my game a little bit, and I was playing a little bit too short and passive. I was trying to turn it around but, yeah, she was on top of me today and it was a little bit difficult for me.
 But, you know, I tried some things, and there were couple of chances that I could have used, especially in the first set to go 4 all. I had an opportunity. And a little bit in the second set there was a little chance. Maybe I didn't take it today. Overall I think she played a very good match. 

 Q. What about the rest of the year? What do you take out of this tournament? It's the first one of the year, so you've got plenty of time to win a Grand Slam. 
 VERA ZVONAREVA: You know what I take out of it, positive thing. I think today I prepared myself throughout the whole tournament. I prepared myself the best I could. So, you know, during previous Grand Slams maybe I was getting a little bit tired at the end of the tournament and I was not able to play my best tennis because of it.
 I think this Grand Slam, I was, you know, doing everything possible to recover and prepare myself the best I can. And I think I did well. So I really improved. So that experience helped me.
 Well, I still didn't win the match today, but overall I'm feeling good. So there is nothing. I just have to think about what can I do next time if I meet a player like this, like Kim, who's playing her game perfectly. What can I do to hurt them? What can I improve in my game to come up with something better next time? 
 That's it.

 Q. Who do you like out of two for Saturday? 
 VERA ZVONAREVA: I never make predictions. It's tennis. You never know until the last point is played. But I'm sure it's going to be very good match. They played a final in Sydney and they have to play the final here.
 It's going to be a tough one because I think Li Na is improved a lot and playing some good tennis. Kim played some great tennis today, so we will see a great match.

 Q. How exciting for Li Na, if she can get through it, a breakthrough win for Chinese tennis? 
 VERA ZVONAREVA: I think that's already a win for China to have a Chinese player in the final. I don't know what's going to happen on Saturday, but I think China should be proud of her already. She's done amazing thing for the country to be the first one in top 10. And then to be the first one in final, it will definitely raise the profile of tennis in China all. It's already big. We have a big event in Beijing.
 I think for me she's the winner already anyway. We will see what's going to happen on Saturday.

 Q. You played Kim five times the last six, seven months or so. You beat her three times and you lost two times. The two losses were on bigger occasions, I guess. Is there a difference between the Kim in a quarterfinal and the Kim in a final or semifinal?
 VERA ZVONAREVA: It's always difficult when you play a top player and you beat a top player. They always take something out of that match and they come up with a different plan next time. They play better the next time.
 It happened that I always played Kim -- you know, I sort of played her in the final of US Open, so I know what to do the next time. I adjust my game and play differently. Maybe she tries to adjust her game. We play in Doha and I beat her. She takes something from Doha and I meet her in a Grand Slam again, so she does something differently. Maybe I have to adjust next time. 
 So it always goes back and forward. It's tough to say. But definitely Kim's got that great experience in Grand Slams. She can really play great tennis when she needs to play.
 I think I can do it as well, but today I was just overplayed. She was just too fast and playing very clean tennis today.

 Q. I don't know if you heard about this, but Justine Henin has announced her retirement. What are your thoughts about that? 
 VERA ZVONAREVA: When did that happen? 

 Q. Yesterday, last night. 
 VERA ZVONAREVA: I haven't heard about it yet so I cannot make any comments.

 Q. It's because of injury. 
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Yeah, I cannot make any comments at the moment because it's just like quick news for me. Well, you know, you never want to see player like Justine retire, because she's great for women's tennis. Her achievements were great. She has done a lot for women's tennis.
 She's a great player. Definitely miss her on the tour. You never want to see a player retiring because of an injury. It's very sad for the sport. It is part of the sport, but it's very sad to see.

 Q. Do you have some special memories of playing with Justine? 
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Memories, I played her so many times and I never beat her, so that's probably the biggest memory that I have. You know, she's a great player. That's all I can say.
 I was never able to beat her.

 Q. Anastasia Myskina won the French Open in 2004. How important was that for Russian girls? Was it the first time you believed you could do it as well? Me personally I always believe I can be up there. When you see someone that you grew up with since a kid that you practiced the same courts, the same club, and you see them winning the Grand Slam, it definitely pushes you to be better player. 
 You really think, Okay, we grew up together. We all can be up there. Definitely helped to raise the profile of women's tennis in Russia. Helped us, yeah, to believe in ourselves a little bit more. Just the girl next door can win a Grand Slam; we can do it as well.
 We have a lot of talented players. It's great right now maybe part because of her successes as well. 

 Q. There are three Grand Slams to come this year. Where do you rate your own chances the highest? 
 VERA ZVONAREVA: I don't know. I have no idea. You know, each tournament, each Grand Slams very difficult. I could never say where are you going to play your best tennis. I will try to prepare myself to play my best. You never know what's going to happen in the future.

 Q. But you have never been so far at the French Open than in the other Grand Slams. Is it an extra motivation to do better in Paris, too? 
 VERA ZVONAREVA: When you're playing tennis for so many years and you're part of those Grand Slams, you don't need any extra motivation to go into the Grand Slam. It is already a Grand Slam and you already want to do the best you can in there.
 Definitely every tournament I'm coming I want to win it, no matter what tournament it is. That's how I'm trying all the time. 

 Q. What tournament's next for you?
 VERA ZVONAREVA: I'm going to be in Pattaya, then Dubai and Doha probably. 

 Q. You said Kim was playing quite perfectly. Any weakness in her game today?
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Well, I think today she played, you know, very clean match. Obviously there are always moments and opportunities you can get and use in the match. She still had some mistakes. 
 You know, there are still some situations I could have played differently and maybe put her in trouble a little bit more. But, you know, there is no one person in tennis. She didn't win every single point. 
 So I think there are couple of little things. I could have maybe give her a little bit more trouble. But just went for my shots. I think I did everything right but just couldn't execute it today.
 Yeah, but overall I think she played very good match.

 Q. So many players wear green these days. You do. Love and hope, is it a special statement? 
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Because I liked it. I was walking in the -- during the pre-season I was in Amsterdam and passing by the store and I saw this sweater and I'm like, Wow, I like it. It is very nice. Well, suits the Australia Day and everything. I think it's a nice statement. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT