AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2011
Vera Zvonareva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 V. ZVONAREVA/B. Jovanovski
  2-6, 6-3, 6-1 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
  
  Q. A slow start, but then you got it all together. What are your thoughts on the match?  
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Well, definitely think that she's a very good player, you know, and she started off very aggressive. We never played before. So it got me some time to understand her game, to read her game.   
 Yeah, maybe, you know, I was a little bit slow in the beginning with my decisions and, uhm, few unforced errors here and there. But I was able to pick it up and really turn it around in the second set. Then it was a bit easier for me.   
  
  Q. She was hitting the ball so cleanly in the first set. Was it a matter of hanging on and waiting till she started missing a few of those?  
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Well, I think I was also playing the way she likes, the way that was comfortable for her. So, of course, she was able to hit the ball a bit cleaner.   
 Then I mixed it up a little bit more, I changed a little bit my game. Then, you know, I was able to turn it around. Also I was able to play a little bit with a higher intensity and having a little bit less unforced errors and it made it a bit difficult for her.  
  
  Q. Did you sense a change come over her when she started missing a few?  
 VERA ZVONAREVA: I was trying to concentrate more on my game, what I had to do. Was trying not to think what was going on on the other side of the net. Was just trying to take one point at a time. Just really happy that I was able to turn this match around.   
  
  Q. Is your game at a level you'd like it to be at this stage of the championship?  
 VERA ZVONAREVA: It is definitely getting better, and that's what I wanted, this kind of match, where maybe you're not playing perfect throughout the whole match, maybe a little bit inconsistent yet, but you still getting through this kind of match. And I really think that it will really help me to improve for the next one. I'm very positive about it.   
 I'm maybe not as sharp yet as I want to be, but definitely this kind of match will help me to be better the next one.   
  
  Q. You had a problem with your racquets today or the string?  
 VERA ZVONAREVA: No, I just wanted to get a tighter racquet. There are a couple racquets that the strings broke on top on the edge of my racquet. It happens sometimes. That's part of the game.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT