WTA CHAMPIONSHIPS - DOHA 2010
October 30, 2010
Vera Zvonareva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. WOZNIACKI/V. Zvonareva
  7-5, 6-0 
   
  Q. Obviously the end of a long season for you, but you got semifinals here, and I guess a good year for you nonetheless.   
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Yeah, I think overall it's a good year. Of course I'm disappointed about my match tonight, but I think Caroline started really well.   
 I was behind, but then I came back; played really good first set; and then it was really like 5-4, 5-All, but she came back with some great shots.  
 I feel like in the beginning of the second set I lost a little bit the concentration, and I gave her three games right away the beginning of the second set. Then it was I think a little bit too late. She was already dominating the second set.   
 I was trying to take a little bit of risk, but maybe the concentration level wasn't there, so I had some a little bit more unforced errors. And, of course, against a player like Caroline, you cannot give her so many mistakes. It was already too difficult for me in the second set.   
 But overall, I think it's been a great week for me. No matter what, you know, it's time to rest and prepare for the next season.   
  
  Q. So No. 2 in the world; two Grand Slam finals; semifinals here. You've actually had a wonderful year.   
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Yeah, I think it's definitely one of my best years if you look at the statistics and everything.  
 But, you know, you always want to finish maybe year on better note a little bit. You want to win.   
 But anyway, I think I've done an amazing job. At the beginning of the year, I didn't think I will be playing this year because I got the surgery at the end of the last year. What I've done, I should be probably proud of what I was able to achieve this year.   
 So, you know, hopefully I can rest well now and prepare for the next season and take this good momentum into the next season.  
  
  Q. Last question. Let's not talk about next season. Let's talk about holiday plans. What are you going to do? What's next? Holidays?  
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Yeah, for sure. First of all, I go back home, spend some time with my family, my friends. I have to go back, study a little bit. Still getting degree and all this, so it's going to be a bit busy back home.  
 But, yeah, and then hopefully I can go somewhere for like a week, a quiet place, maybe on the beach somewhere, warm weather. Then I will start preparation for the new season probably in Florida. So, yeah, hopefully.   
 But I definitely need some rest. I feel like, you know, during this tournament I was trying to concentrate on my matches and felt like I was full of energy. But now since I played my last match, I realize how much I need that rest and how much I just want to pack my racquet and just leave it alone somewhere and, you know, don't touch it for three weeks.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT