WTA CHAMPIONSHIPS - DOHA 2010
October 29, 2010
Vera Zvonareva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







V. ZVONAREVA/K. Clijsters
  6-4, 7-5

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Congratulations. You're getting stronger by the day. With the heat, how do you feel you'll cope with your stamina by Sunday hopefully? 
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Well, yeah, I think I had three great matches the past few days, and I think the heat wasn't there today. I think even the heat rule was out, so that was quite a good condition to play tennis today.
 I definitely produced some good tennis, and I'm happy that I won this match.

 Q. Are you hopeful of winning the Championships? 
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Well, you know, every tournament I'm coming to I'm not coming to lose, you know. Every tournament I'm coming I'm coming to try my best to win it. 
 But I'm not -- you know, but I also know that I have to concentrate on one match at a time. Tomorrow I have a very tough match, and that's what I'm going concentrate on.

 Q. You play Wozniacki tomorrow. US Open you won in straight sets; Beijing you lost in straight sets. Can you talk a little bit about the ups and downs in your matches?
 VERA ZVONAREVA: I think Beijing was three sets, tough match, three sets, so...
 We always had tough matches against each other. Even if there was like two-setter, that was still quite tough.
 So it's tough to say. Every day is a different day. Caroline is a great player. She's No. 1 in the world. It's going to be a difficult match.
 But, um, you know, I just have to go out there and try my best; then we will see. I know if I play my best tennis I can beat anyone on the other side of the net. 
 But I know it's not easy to produce your best tennis every day. That's why I'm going to try to prepare myself the best I can so I'm physically and mentally I'm in that match and able to give my 100% , and then we will see what's going to happen.

 Q. Is that what's going to be the key of the match, who's able to play her own game?
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Yeah, I think at this level, at this Championships, whoever goes out there on the court and is able to produce the best tennis and is able to play their best will win the match.
 You know, tennis is a game. You try your best every time. Sometimes you go and you feel like, Ah, few things didn't work for me and you lost the match. The next day you go out there and everything works for you and you're winning the match. 
 It's just a little bit, just little adjustments that need to be done. Maybe also few things tactically that you change and you try to do it on the court.
 Whoever is able to do it the best tomorrow will win.

 Q. Does it mean anything special that it's a match between No. 1 and 2 in the world? 
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Um, I don't know. There is nothing special. It's just another tough match. You know, rankings, they change all the time. I haven't seen anyone in the same position for ten years in a row. Tennis is a little bit up and down. It's a game. Always something happens. Everyone is trying to improve.
 You know, tennis is not staying in the same place. It's improving as well. (Smiling.)

 Q. How much have you seen of Caroline's matches in Doha?
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Haven't seen many, actually. I saw one yesterday, a little bit. Not everything, but a little bit. 
 I mean, I think -- yeah, yesterday was a great second set. I felt Francesca played some great tennis in the first set, what I saw, and then the second set Caroline was able to turn it around. 
 I thought it was a great match overall.

 Q. So you thought that Caroline's level was the same as in China more or less? 
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Oh, you know, it's hard to assess like this. I think she's a great player. No matter what, she's got that level. No matter what. Just sometimes it's a little bit better; sometimes maybe it's a little bit worse, like with any other player.
 But you have to go on the court and try your best out there. I cannot tell like this she's got that level. She won so many matches this year, so I think she's the same player. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT