WTA CHAMPIONSHIPS - DOHA 2010
October 27, 2010
Vera Zvonareva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 V. ZVONAREVA/V. Azarenka
  7-6, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. You a big Grace Jones fan then?   
 VERA ZVONAREVA: I don't know. No, not really, but I like the T-shirt.  
  
  Q. I see. Because she goes to a lot of tennis events.   
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Does she?   
  
  Q. Yeah.   
 VERA ZVONAREVA: That's great. So I will become her fan.   
  
  Q. That was a good, gutsy win out there today, wasn't it?   
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Yeah, that was definitely good win. I think I started a little bit slow, had a little bit in the beginning few unforced errors, was down 2-Love in the first set, but was able to come back.  
 The same in the second set. Overall, I'm very happy about that.   
  
  Q. You spoke at Wimbledon and you spoke a little bit after the US Open about getting tougher, about really coming through in these clutch matches. This isn't a final, I know, but this is the end of the year. Every match counts. Is this evidence of you getting tougher?   
 VERA ZVONAREVA: I don't know. I'm facing very tough opponents, and I'm happy that I won. I think overall, my experience helps me right now to go through a lot of tough matches.  
 But also I've been working very hard. You know, I think I'm just improving generally, and I think that's why it's helping me to beat tough opponents on the other side of the net.  
 I'm not really thinking about that. I think just that experience that I got, it made me tougher. Just those years on the tour, they make everyone tougher.   
  
  Q. Another way of asking that, coming out of that match, what did you learn from tonight? You were down most of the match and kept fighting back. What do you take away from that, and how will that help you in the upcoming matches?   
 VERA ZVONAREVA: I don't know. I feel like I'm always fighting out there no matter what the score is. I'm always leaving 100% on the court and always trying to give my best.   
 I'm really happy that, you know, I was able to come back in those two sets when I was down. I think I shouldn't have started that slow, because I gave her an advantage right away.   
 But at the same time, I was just trying to find my rhythm. I was trying to play aggressive. Of course when you're taking a little bit more risk, those mistakes will come.   
 But I think I analyzed it well, and I made some adjustments throughout the match. I made I think few adjustments while we were playing, and I really came up with great tennis in the tiebreaker in the first set when I really needed it.   
  
  Q. Who is the best tennis player in the world?   
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Who's the best tennis player in the world? I think it's Caroline Wozniacki right now. (Smiling.)  
  
  Q. Who will be the best on Monday?  
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Who will be the best on Monday? I don't know. We'll see on Monday.   
  
  Q. You don't have any guess?  
 VERA ZVONAREVA: On Monday? I don't know. I don't really follow rankings or anything. When they will come out, we will see who's going to be the...  
  
  Q. Did you play in your mind the idea that if you lose, you lose the No. 1, the possibility to be No. 1?   
 VERA ZVONAREVA: I had no idea about this. When I was coming into the match, I was coming to fight. I was coming into the match to give my all and try my best and to do everything to win the match.   
 That's all I was concentrating on and thinking about. I really don't think about anything else.   
  
  Q. Last night you talked about consistency, and you were struggling with that. Obviously that was a problem in the first set. What's the problem with consistency in the first two matches? As you get further into the week, is that something that's a little bit worrying to you?   
 VERA ZVONAREVA: For sure I think I have to be a little bit more consistent. But we're talking about two absolutely different matches, two absolutely different players.   
 In the first match I felt like I was dominating rallies, and sometimes I was not able to finish them just because I had those unforced errors.  
 Today Victoria is a different player. She is very aggressive and is putting a lot of pressure and forcing me to miss a little bit more.   
 So those mistakes that I was having today, it's not only because they were unforced errors, but because she was forcing me. So that's a little bit different.   
 But I still wish I could have played a little bit more consistent, especially, like I said, in the beginning of those two sets.   
 You know, I'm very maybe lucky in a way that I was able to turn it around in the first and second set today.   
 Maybe the next match, if I let the player dominate like that, it might be different story.   
  
  Q. Sorry to come back to the old, old, old question about is the season too long and everything like that, but are you looking forward to a break now, or with your form getting better and better, would you like to go on for another couple of weeks yet?  
 VERA ZVONAREVA: I would like to go for another few days. I would like to stay here until Sunday, you know, and then we will see what's after. But definitely looking for some time off afterwards and preparing for the next season.   
 I think, you know, maybe I could have played longer, but I would not get the chance to prepare myself for the next season.  
 As always, when you play well, you don't want to stop; when you play bad sometimes you don't want to stop either because you want to do better.  
  
  Q. Did you field tired? Worn out? Do you feel you need a rest?  
 VERA ZVONAREVA: I think at the moment my scheduling was very good. So I feel pretty good at the moment.  
 I took sometime off after Beijing tournament and I prepared myself well for the Championships, so I'm feeling great.   
 But at the same time, after the US Open I felt a little bit physically and mentally tired. Then when we went to Tokyo and Beijing it was a little bit tough for me.  
 But, you know, I stayed tough there. I knew I will have few days off. That was enough for me to prepare myself for the Championships.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT