WIMBLEDON
June 28, 2010
Vera Zvonareva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 V. ZVONAREVA/J. Jankovic
  6-1, 3-0 (ret.) 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Do you feel like this is the best grass court tennis you're playing this year?  
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Uhm, I don't know. Hard to say. But I think I was able to play pretty good match.   
 I think I started the tournament pretty slow. It was very difficult for me in the first couple of matches. But I really raised the level of my game for the third, and today for the fourth round.   
 You know, I'm really enjoying it so far.   
  
  Q. Do you feel like you're playing well enough to go another round deeper to make your first semifinal here?  
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Well, I always believe in myself. No matter what, I always know that if I can produce good tennis out there, if I can show my best, I can beat anyone on the other side of the net.   
 Every time I'm coming for the tournament, I'm coming to try my best to win it. So, of course.   
  
  Q. Is there an element of your game that you've been particularly pleased with over the last week?   
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Uhm, I think I should be pleased with my movement on the court 'cause I had so much trouble last year. And I think finally I'm getting back. I'm confident about, yeah, the way I move on the court I think.   
  
  Q. How soon during the match did you realize that Jelena was having problems?  
 VERA ZVONAREVA: I haven't noticed it. I was not paying attention to the other side. I knew that this match, I had to concentrate on myself and I had to go for my shots no matter what, because she's a very good player. And I was trying to take it one point at a time.   
 To be honest, I wasn't paying any attention to what was going on on the other side. I haven't noticed anything until she called the trainer on the court.   
  
  Q. Do you know what was wrong with her? What did she tell you when she shook hands with you at the end?  
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Yeah, I'm not sure exactly what was it. She said something is, you know, really bothering her. I just wished her a quick recovery. I hope it's nothing serious, you know, and she can recover quick, be back for the hard court season.   
  
  Q. Both your potential opponents are still on court at the moment. Do you feel like your game works better against one than the other?   
 VERA ZVONAREVA: It's hard to say. They are both very good players, you know. They have achieved so much in their careers. And, uhm, with those players, you always have adapt to what surface you playing on, the conditions around. I don't know. It's a lot of things.   
 So I don't think you can really, uhm, say that, Okay, against Kim is better for me or against Justine is better. No, it will depend on that day, on that surface, and who is going to be able to produce the best tennis.   
  
  Q. What do you think you have to do well, whoever it is, what will you be concentrating on that day?  
 VERA ZVONAREVA: I think I will have to stay aggressive no matter what because it is very difficult to win the match against them if you let them dominate, because they will take their chances, they will play risky shots. They're good enough to make it happen.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT