BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 21, 2009
Victoria Azarenka
Vera Zvonareva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 ZVONAREVA-AZARENKA/Peer-Dulko
  6-4, 3-6, (10-5) 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions for the double champions, please.   
  
  Q. Can you kind of talk about the difference between the first and second sets? First set looked like you were pretty much in control. Second set, not so much.   
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Well, I think we had our ups and downs throughout the game, and they're very tough opponents to play. You have to be very consistent against them.   
 As soon as we make couple of mistakes, they, you know, they play very good. They play very consistent, so I think in the first set we were a little bit better.   
 Consistency maybe a little bit less in the second set, but we came out for the tiebreak very strong, and we're happy about it.  
  
  Q. Do you guys plan on playing a lot of doubles? You guys haven't really lost a match on the court this year, right, together?   
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: Well, we got -- we pulled out in Australia, but, I mean, we didn't lose.   
  
  Q. That's what I meant.   
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: Not really a loss. Yeah, we're going to keep going for the big tournaments. We're not going to play every tournament, but for the big ones and the Grand Slams we are going to play.  
  
  Q. How does this help your confidence heading into tomorrow?   
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Well, I think a single match and doubles match is a big difference, but definitely it's great to win the tournament in doubles. I think tomorrow is going to be a new day.   
 I'm going to try my best tomorrow, so we'll see what's going to happen.  
  
  Q. You want to talk a little bit about playing against Ana. I know last year for first few matches you had a tough time playing against her, and then you got her over at the Championships.   
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Well, I played against Ana lots of matches. I lost a few, I won a few, so it was always tough. We have tough matches all the time, and it's going to be tough tomorrow.   
 She's obviously playing very strong, and she beat lots of good players on her way to the finals. She has lots of experience. She's a Grand Slam champion, so it's not going to be easy. But I'm going to try my best, and we'll see.   
  
  Q. Can you tell us how you came together as a pair? Were you friends before? How did that happen?  
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: Well, it kind of happened last year and before the Olympics, I think.   
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Yeah.  
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: Montreal? I asked Vera if she has somebody to play doubles with for the next year, and she didn't know then yet.   
 Probably the US Open, we said, Yeah, we're going to try to play some tournaments. That's pretty much it.  
  
  Q. You both have a lot of emotion in your games. How has that helped your performance on court, the passion that you put in your shots?   
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: Obviously it didn't help much today, but, especially from me. (laughter.)  
 Yeah, we're both emotional. I mean, it's just the way we are. Outside the court we are very different people. It's just something that helps us, and it's our personality on the court.   
 We want to win so bad. We want to be so much better that sometimes we just probably expect too much from ourselves.   
 But I think you have to be emotional on the court, otherwise I don't think it's fun.   
  
  Q. Vera, you have a chance to beat the only one other player who has won singles and doubles in this tournament, Lindsay. Can you talk about the opportunity of winning both titles in the same tournament?  
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Well, there is no point to talk about it right now. We'll see what happens tomorrow. We'll talk after the match. It definitely feels great to go far in the tournament both in singles and doubles.   
  
  Q. Are you playing together in Miami?  
 VICTORIA AZARENKA: Yes.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT