BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 17, 2009
Vera Zvonareva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







V. ZVONAREVA/N. Li
  6-4, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. First of all, congratulations. Can you just talk a little bit about the match? You were able to control it, for the most part, seemed like. 
 VERA ZVONAREVA: I think it was very tight match from the very beginning, and I wouldn't say I was controlling everything. I think she was playing really good, and I was playing some games better.
 But I'm very happy about the way I was able to finish up the first set and the second set, because it was, like I said, very tough and close. 
 I had to serve out for the first set and serve out to close the match, and I did that well.

 Q. When you had your opportunity to close it out and you lost a couple of key points but you came back, do you have a system that you use when you've disappointed yourself that you didn't close it out, and now you come back again? Do you have a system?
 VERA ZVONAREVA: You know, I always believe in myself, and I always think I can do better and better.
 Yeah, there are going to be some mistakes and I'm going to make them probably over and over again. It's tennis. It's the game. But I accept this, and I'm just trying to concentrate on the next point and try and take it one point at a time.

 Q. You've got to be happy with the way you're playing this tournament. Looks like you haven't dropped a set. All your results have been looking really solid. Can you talk about the level of your game at this point?
 VERA ZVONAREVA: I'm not really thinking about the level of my have game. I'm just trying to concentrate on every match and get through every one. I'm pretty glad the way I was doing so far.
 It's never easy, but I think, like you said, I never dropped a set yet, so it's a good sign. 
 I never really think about, oh, I dropped a set today. I lost a few games today. No, never like that. But sometimes it's good to know it, but I know the next one will be a tough match, interesting match, so I'm looking forward to it. 

 Q. Who do you have next? I forget. 
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Caroline Wozniacki.

 Q. Can you talk about playing against her? Have you played against her before?
 VERA ZVONAREVA: I never played her before, so it's going to be interesting because she's very young and upcoming player. She had very good results, and I think it will be interesting for me. I'm going to try my best, and we'll see what's going to happen.

 Q. Do you pay much attention to the tournament and how, like, some of the seeds have been falling and some of the other top seeds have been struggling? Do you pay attention to that at all?
 VERA ZVONAREVA: I don't even pay attention. If you ask me about the other results, I have no idea. I never look at the draw. I don't really follow it. Yeah, occasionally I can see that match or another match, and I will watch my next opponent, but that's about it.

 Q. With the way you're playing right now, how much do you think it helped that you came here a little bit earlier and got used to the conditions here in Indian Wells?
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Well, in general, I'm the player who needs time to get used to the conditions. I think I can play anywhere, on any surface, but I need time to get used. 
 So I think it was helpful for me to get used by coming here earlier. Well, but right now I'm in the tournament, and it's totally, of course, different, you know. Playing matches and practicing, it's totally different. 
 I'm glad the way I got through these three matches, and I'm looking forward to the next one. 

 Q. Your focus is on each point, each game, and not on the outcome. Was that a result of your coach or your own development?
 VERA ZVONAREVA: I think both maybe. Both, because my coach would give me some advises [sic.] I learn a lot by playing for the past few years on the tour, so I think it's a combination. It's a work together.
 It's been, you know, helping me a lot just trying to concentrate on myself more than everything else that's going around. Well, I'm going to keep doing it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT