MEDIBANK INTERNATIONAL
January 12, 2009
Vera Zvonareva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Vera has unfortunately had to withdraw from the tournament due to gastrointestinal illness. Here she is.  
  
  Q. Obviously very disappointing for you. When did you first notice the problem?  
 VERA ZVONAREVA: It's been bothering me the last few days, but just got to the point today where I felt like I cannot perform. I couldn't go on court today.   
 I wish more than anything to play, of course, the tournament before the first Grand Slam of the year, but I have to take care of this so I can, well, try to play the Australian Open next week.   
  
  Q. So what are your plans now?   
 VERA ZVONAREVA: I really have no plans yet, because I really thought I was getting ready for my match. I was planning to be, well, on the court at the moment. So far, no plans.   
 But definitely will have to take care of it and, well, look forward for -- to go to Melbourne and be ready for the Australian Open.   
  
  Q. Before this happened, how did you feel about the preparation that you got in Hong Kong?   
 VERA ZVONAREVA: I think it's been pretty good in Hong Kong. I got a few matches, and even though it's an exhibition, it's always nice to start the year with, you know, a couple of matches.   
 But I was looking forward for this tournament because it's different. It's a competition. It's the first -- for me, it would have been the first event of the year, and I was really looking forward to it.   
 Well, unfortunately no chance to play today. We'll see. I will have to start with the Grand Slam, but we'll see what I can do.   
  
  Q. You finished 2008 on a very high note. What sort of goals have you set for this year?  
 VERA ZVONAREVA: You know, I never have a certain like ranking goal or certain tournament win goal. For me, the most important is to try my best every time I'm on the court, and to improve myself every day.   
 I want to work on some things. There are still lots of room for improvement, and that's what I'm going to do. Of course, I know if I'm going to do it I can beat -- I can beat anybody and I can make steps forward.   
  
  Q. Can you see a particular turning point last season when things clicked for you and you started to feel you were on the up again?   
 VERA ZVONAREVA: I think there is no certain turning point. It was hard work. I was putting my best efforts in every day. Day by day i was improving. I think that's what help me to perform good throughout the year, even though I had ups and downs. Every player has ups and down throughout the year.  
 Overall it was a pretty good year.  
  
  Q. Were you able to have some fun in the pre-season?   
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Yeah. I didn't do much. I went back home. Finally I spent some time at home. I went to school and did a few things.   
 But like every other player, I was preparing for a new season for the past, I don't know, three, four weeks.  
  
  Q. You went to school?   
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Yeah.   
  
  Q. To study what?  
 VERA ZVONAREVA: I'm studying the economic relations, international economic relations. I graduated from one university and it's my second university. It's my second year, so I had to take care of those things. I had to take a few exams when I went back home. It was fun.  
  
  Q. Do you carry books with you when you travel to study?  
 VERA ZVONAREVA: I used to bring even more last year. I think a little bit less this year. I have everything on my computer what I need.  
  
  Q. It must be difficult to concentrate on tennis and studying.   
 VERA ZVONAREVA: It is difficult, but there are moments I actually enjoy my school stuff a lot. So it is actually very good to concentrate on something else besides tennis and tennis balls all the time. I take my time to read and to study something, and it's something I enjoy. Like my free time.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT