SONY ERICSSON CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 4, 2008
Vera Zvonareva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  V. ZVONAREVA/S. Kuznetsova
6-2, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. You obviously handled the conditions better than your opponent, but were they difficult? It looked very windy?
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Yeah, of course. The conditions are very difficult, especially since we were playing indoors for the past two months. And it was the first match outdoors, and the wind like this right away, and a tough opponent like Svetlana. So I knew it was going to be very difficult. So I was just trying my best, you know, and at the end of the day I did a pretty good job. 

 Q. Traditionally, do you dislike playing in the wind? How does your game normally play in the wind? 
 VERA ZVONAREVA: I played here earlier this year, and it was very, very windy, and I made it to the finals. So I would say I don't mind the wind. 
 Of course, it's tough. There are some matches that the wind can bother me a lot, and I would never be able to find my rhythm. Some matches I would be able to find my rhythm. 
 But, I think, those conditions are difficult for both players. So you have to try to, you know, find your way to win anyways. 

 Q. Is this your first victory in the Sony Ericsson Championships, and more so it should be important for you because you had lost to Svetlana in 2004 first match. So what do you feel about this tournament? 
 VERA ZVONAREVA: It feels great to win the first match of the championships. That's for sure. Especially since I played in 2004, and I didn't win a match. It's my second time, and I won today, so it feels great. 
 Svetlana, like I said, is a tough, tough opponent, so I'm really glad the way I played today. 

 Q. Svetlana seemed to be getting annoyed with the crowd up at the top. Did you find that it affected your game at all? 
 VERA ZVONAREVA: I think it was a little bit loud, but I was trying to concentrate on the game and not to pay attention. It's difficult. I think it's difficult for both players to play under such conditions. 
 Yeah, it was pretty loud. It was windy. But I had to fight, you know, I had to try to play my best tennis today. 

 Q. When she was complaining, did you just have to try to drop that out of your game? Was it affecting your game? 
 VERA ZVONAREVA: I was just concentrating on myself today. I knew it was getting very tough, and I knew I had to concentrate. If I lost concentration in such conditions, it would be very difficult for me to win the match. So I was trying not to think about anything, but just look at the ball and play my game. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT