AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 22, 2007
Vera Zvonareva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Close but not quite close enough tonight against Maria?   
 VERA ZVONAREVA:  I think it was a close match.  I didn't use all my chances.  I got broken early in the second set, so it was really tough to come back.   
 But I fought till the end.  I had chances to go back to 5-All.  But she played a great match.   
  
  Q.  Talk to us about the chance to go back to 5-All.   
 VERA ZVONAREVA:  Well, she served really well.  She didn't really give me chances to win the point.  I just played one point at a time.  She's a great fighter.  She did a great job to come back in that game.   
  
  Q.  Having saved so many breakpoints in the first set, would it have gone to a tiebreak, might have been somewhat of a different story?   
 VERA ZVONAREVA:  Well, it's tough to say.  We didn't go to the tiebreak.  So, unfortunately, I couldn't hold my serve at 5-All.  Well, I think she played really well, 'cause I was fighting for every point.  It helped me to save breakpoints, but I couldn't do it right on time in the first set.   
 I think she had a little more advantages with her serve.  I didn't really get any chances to break her in the first set and she had so many breakpoints.  Finally she converted one.   
  
  Q.  Do you think you're playing pretty close to your best at the moment?   
 VERA ZVONAREVA:  Seriously I don't really think about it.  I'm just trying to enjoy myself out there, trying to do my best.  No matter how I do, I think it's important to fight for every point, then the best tennis will come out.  It's not just going to come out when you, you know, going on court and not fighting.   
 It's never perfect from the beginning to the end.  You always have to fight for it.  I think I was doing it pretty good today, but unfortunately a little bit unlucky on the key points.   
  
  Q.  Seemed to get a bit frustrated towards the end of the match well.   
 VERA ZVONAREVA:  Well, she played a really good match.  I tried to change something and it didn't work.  I just did everything what I could do today.   
  
  Q.  First couple of games I think you went to the net a couple of times.  We didn't see you up there for a large portion after that.   
 VERA ZVONAREVA:  Well, Maria is a pretty aggressive player.  She doesn't just let anybody come to the net against her.   
 I tried when I -- I could have do a little bit more probably.  But, like I said, I didn't use all of my chances there.   
  
  Q.  When you think about Maria's game the last couple of years, what are the aspects that stand out that you think she's improved upon?   
 VERA ZVONAREVA:  She definitely improved her serve and her movement on the court.  She became a really patient player, no matter even though she's really aggressive.  She knows when he needs to be more patient.  She's not just going to give easy points away.   
  
  Q.  She's able to raise her level at the crucial points in the match, do you think that's one of her great strengths?   
 VERA ZVONAREVA:  It's not just about the crucial points in the match.  It's just that she's playing pretty even match from the beginning, from the very first ball till the very last ball.  She will have couple mistakes here and there.  She's always fighting.  I think that's very important for her.   
  
  Q.  Do you think the noise she makes when she hits the ball, is it a different sound at more crucial points?   
 VERA ZVONAREVA:  I don't really think about it.  I'm just concentrating on myself and what I have to do on the court.  Whatever she does, whatever she wants to do, that's her game.  It's important for me just to be out there and enjoy myself.   
  
  Q.  It's not a distraction?   
 VERA ZVONAREVA:  Like I said, I don't pay attention.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT