TELECOM MASTERS ITALIA
May 13, 2005
Vera Zvonareva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.


Q.  Was it as you expected with the public and your opponent and everything?

VERA ZVONAREVA:  Well, it was worse than last year (smiling).  But of course, you know, I expect because she's Italian, she's the only one left in the tournament and, you know, I had to play her.  And especially when I was leading 2-Love, you know, in the score against her. I mean, it was -- you know, it was really nervous match.  We didn't -- I don't think we played our perfect tennis, but we were just trying to fight for every point.  And especially myself, you know, I was trying not to pay attention, you know, when everyone were supporting her.


Q.  What were you expecting differently from Francesca today?  Did you expect she was going to play like she did, or something different?

VERA ZVONAREVA:  Well, you know, when you're on the tour for 10 years, it's tough to completely change your game; you just can't change the tactics, you know, suddenly. So I knew that -- you know, I knew that I just have to go on court and fight and try to figure out what she's gonna do this day, you know, at this moment.  Then just, you know, just keep playing my game and don't start do what she likes to do. So it was the most important thing just to play my game.


Q.  Sorry, what is it that she likes to do?

VERA ZVONAREVA:  You know, she's -- I think she's more like a clay court player, you know, but she serves pretty well and she likes to change the height of the ball, you know, slice and spin.  She moves pretty well, so I had to expect that she's going to get lots of balls.


Q.  Do you run into many situations like this where you're at the enemy camp and nobody wants you to win?

VERA ZVONAREVA:  You know, I'm traveling all around the world all year, so basically I have to play hometown players, you know, all the time.  It happens. But, you know, today was so many people supporting her.  It's not like you gonna see it every tournament.  I mean, I feel the same but opposite, I mean, when I play in Moscow.  Today is different. But, you know, I didn't really pay attention that people were supporting her.  I was just trying to concentrate on my game (smiling).


Q.  The Italians are specialists at it.

VERA ZVONAREVA:  Well, Russians, too (smiling).


Q.  There are so many Russian players that it's difficult to know them all.  What can you tell me about Linetskaya?  She's less known than Sharapova, for instance, where there have been written 10,000 stories.

VERA ZVONAREVA:  Oh, well, I don't really know what to say because I remember her when she was a kid, and she's two years younger than me.  I remember when she was a kid playing Juniors tournament.  But I didn't really -- you know, I never really saw her because we still were in the different age division little bit. Now, you know, now she improved a lot for the last year and she started playing better.  I mean, you can see the results. But it's -- she's like a newcomer, you know?  Players, lots of players, they don't really know her and they don't know how to play her.  But when you -- you know, a little bit sooner, players will know her and then, I don't know, then you will ask her questions about somebody else (smiling).


Q.  Were you more nervous today or the other time when you played Schiavone and you were up 5-Love in Paris and had seven matchpoints?

VERA ZVONAREVA:  Today.  Today, for sure (smiling).  Because, you know, in the Paris I qualified and -- I had to play qualifying, and then I got into the third round and, you know, I played Francesca.  I knew she is a tough player and I didn't expect to be 6-2, 5-Love up so soon.  Then everything became normal, you know:  We were fighting, we got into the third set.  So it was okay. But today, you know, I'm coming on court as the favorite player and she's playing at her home city, everyone supports her.  So it was really tough.


Q.  So tomorrow you have to play Mauresmo again and you always lost against her.  What happens when you meet a player you always lost against?  Do you try to change your tactic, or do you go in and play your game?  What's your strategy?

VERA ZVONAREVA:  Well, I think you just go on court, you know, and trying to play your best tennis.  Because, you know, especially when you always lost, you don't really know what game you should play if you lost before.  If you would know, maybe you would win. But, I mean, it's important to play your best tennis against any Top 10, you know, Top 20 player, because if you don't do it and you have a bad day, you're not gonna be able to win. So I'll just, you know, I'll just go on court and my coach will give me couple advices what to do.  And, you know, I'll try to see what she's gonna do tomorrow and, you know, maybe change my game.


Q.  This is such a nice city.  Are you having any fun?

VERA ZVONAREVA:  Me?  On the court only.


Q.  On the court?

VERA ZVONAREVA:  Uh-hmm.


Q.  You don't get around?

VERA ZVONAREVA:  Not really.  I have to go play doubles now and then everything is -- I mean, maybe something is open, but it's not like I can be up 24 hours a day.


Q.  No, of course not.  You've been here a few times.  Have you seen much of the town at all?

VERA ZVONAREVA:  You know, last year I was busy all week 'cause I had to play semifinals.  And it's only my second time here, and this year it's the same. But I'm happy with that (smiling).


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT