CHINA OPEN
October 4, 2011
Vera Zvonareva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 V. ZVONAREVA/K. Zakopalova
  6-3, 4-6, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. This match was a really tight one, especially in the second set. You did some unforced errors and lost it. How did you adjust to win the match?   
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Well, you know, I think I played a pretty good match, but she's a very dangerous player. I don't think I made that many mistakes. I think she played very aggressive and she made a lot of winners.  
 Of course there was a moment where I allowed her to make those winners. I think I was playing a little bit softer, a little bit shorter, and she was stepping in and just making winners.  
 But then in the third set I think I started playing a little bit more aggressive. I went for my shots a little bit more. I think that was the reason I won at the end. I was not waiting for her mistake anymore. I started playing my game.   
  
  Q. Next match you will play with Ana Ivanovic. How do you see your chances?  
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Oh, you know, I think it's too early to speak about the next match yet. I just came off the court and I'm still thinking about my match that I just played. I never look at the draw.   
 Well, since you said it's Ana, it's going to be a tough one. She's a tough and dangerous player. She always has a good level of play, so you always have to play very good tennis to beat her.   
  So we will see. You know, I will come back tomorrow and I will be trying my best, as usual, and we will see how it will go.    
  Q. Would you please talk more about the cooperation between you and your new coach?   
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Well, we started working together since the clay court season. I also have another coach who is helping me when I'm back home, so we sort of have a team, you know, of people. I also have a physio and fitness trainer on my team.  
 I'm enjoying it so far. We been working on few things. You know, it's going well. I've known him for so many years. Two or three years ago he traveled with me for a full year, so it's not something new for me. I knew him from before. He plays really well and challenges me on the practice courts, so I think it's going well so far.   
 So we will see.   
  
  Q. (Through translation.) Off court, it is said that Li Na has a very good relation with you. This time when you come to China did Li Na invite you to dinner?   
 VERA ZVONAREVA: You know, actually we do have very good relationship with Li Na off the court. I think she's a great girl and a great athlete. We always speak in the locker room.  
 But it's a bit difficult to get together during the tournament, because each player has got their own schedule. Everyone is trying to prepare themselves for the matches. We don't really, you know, go out together because we're never on the same schedule. So it's tough.   
 But, you know, she always gives me some advices about China. She will always tell me which places I should go and what I should try. I get to know some things about China from her. I think she's a very nice girl.  
  
  Q. It's the end of the season. Is your mental right now trying to win the big tournaments like China Open or try to finish strong and qualify for WTA Championships?   
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Well, you know, definitely the end of the season you always want to finish strong, but I want to play my best every time. You know, any tournament I'm coming to I want to win. Doesn't matter if it's the beginning of the year or end of the year. I think if you want to be one of the top players, you have to play consistent throughout the whole season.   
 Of course one of the main goals is try to make it to the Championships. I think it's going to be a tough challenge. A lot of girls are trying to do well, and this is one of the biggest events at the end of the year. Of course everyone wants to try to play their best here and try to get into the Championships.  
 I will try my best as well. We will see.   
  
  Q. Right now we have two Grand Slam winners and the top seeds have left this game. What do you think the problem is with the girls? Do you think the schedule is too close to US Open? How do you adjust with your own condition?  
 VERA ZVONAREVA: I don't see it as a problem. You know, I see it in a different way. I see it as a very tough competition right now. Women's tennis grew a lot over the past few years. It shows that if you're not playing your best or you're just a little bit underperforming, you're not going to be able to win matches anymore. Even in the first or second rounds there are no easy matches anymore.  
 It shows that maybe some players played a lot of matches in the beginning of the year. It is always tough to be on top of your form 11 months during the season. So there are some ups and downs. It shows that some players, when they have a little bit of down, it's tough for them to go through.   
 It shows a great competition, and it shows that, you know, you have to learn a lot about yourself in order to prepare yourself in the best way so you can play your best tennis all the time.  
 I think that's something a lot of young girls, and especially first time Grand Slam winners, it is a new experience for them, and they have to start learning this and how to manage and stay consistent throughout the whole season.   
  
  Q. Staying on that then, you say you don't see it being a problem in the women's game. What do you make of Andy Murray's call? He was talking about possible strike action, and they were planning talks next week at the Shanghai Masters. What do you think of the men's complaint that perhaps the season is too long and it leads to burnouts and injury and so forth?   
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Well, you know, I haven't heard his comments exactly, so it's tough for me to comment on what Andy said. Just looking at the men's calendar, it is even longer than ours. I think they're trying to make it a little bit shorter so they can have a little longer break.  
 Also we have to take -- they have to take into consideration that guys are playing five-setters at the Grand Slams, and the Davis Cups as well. It puts a lot of physical challenges on them as well. So, you know, it's a little bit tough for me to comment about something I'm not really sure.   
 But just looking in their calendar, it is quite busy. I think the tennis is a different level right now. Let's say 20 years ago nobody was really thinking about working on the fitness very, very hard. Right now, girls are doing it since they're very young. Everyone on the tour is very, very fit.   
 That puts a lot of challenges when you play on the court. We take our bodies to the limits. We push ourselves to the limits on an everyday basis.   
 Of course it is maybe more difficult than before, especially for the guys when they play those long, long five-setters. So they have to take everything into consideration. I don't know exactly what they're going to change, but I think talking and thinking and maybe managing it a little bit better, there is always a way. We always have to look at the different options.   
  
  Q. You have football friends as well. Are you following the Stuttgart football club?  
 VERA ZVONAREVA: Yeah, I have a few friends that are playing in Stuttgart. I got to know them when we trained together in Amsterdam. After I had my surgery and I was recovering and doing my rehab, there were a few players from Stuttgart there.   
 They were there and we got to know each other. When I was playing a tournament in Stuttgart, Khalid Boulahrouz and Pavel Pogrebnyak, they came to watch me play and I went to watch them play their game. I think it's fun. I know some athletes from other sports, and it's exciting always nice to talk to them and share our experiences.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT