ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 28, 2016
Ken Ekanem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How much does it mean for you to get the program back to this level after some lean years?  
KEN EKANEM: Man, I think it's been a really special year. You know, just getting back to where Tech was originally envisioned at, it's just an awesome feeling. Just been really special this year. You know, the night before the game, the seniors on the defense got to get up and say whatever they wanted about the season and how this last game in Lane means, and I just couldn't thank my team and my coaches enough. It's meant so much to me, just bringing Tech back to the slot where I originally envisioned us at.   
 Q.  Have you maybe stressed to some of the younger guys that this type of season doesn't really come along often? And when you were a player did you maybe take success that Virginia Tech had had for granted and assume you were coming into a program where the tendency to make the ACC Championship was pretty routine?  
KEN EKANEM: Yeah, I didn't really know much about it when I was younger. I thought we were going to come in and just be Tech, just be really dominant in the ACC and always be in contention for the ACC Championship. My first year here, first four years here was kind of disappointing seasons and all that. You know, yeah, but I've been -- I've been telling all these younger guys, these moments like this don't come around that often, and you never know when the next time you will be in this situation again.   
You can't take any of this for granted, and you've got to just live in the moment and have a great amount of pride, just capitalize and make the best of our opportunities this weekend.   
 Q.  As a follow-up to that, oftentimes when a legendary coach retires the transition isn't really that smooth, but it has been for you guys. Why do you think that is?  
KEN EKANEM: Well, I mean, I think the seniors were just -- we were just so ready to buy in and to get this thing rolling as quickly as possible because we knew as a group the quicker that we bought in, the quicker that the younger guys will, you know, and so I remember meeting with all the seniors, and we just had a talk about it, and we had to really start motivating these younger guys to buy into this program, buy into Coach Fuente's philosophies and all that, and you know, the quicker that everybody buys in, the more success we'll have as a team.   
It's really, I think, us doing that, it really has proven that his formula works, and you know, it's just been a really special year.   
 Q.  Sam said that Coach Fuente's personality is similar to Coach Beamer's; do you sense that their personalities are similar and maybe that's also a reason why the transition has been smooth?  
KEN EKANEM: Yeah. You know, they both put a lot of emphasis on taking care of the little things and the big things will come. Yeah, just both workmanlike mentalities, and having Coach Foster there, too, defense-wise, there's some similarities. Yeah, I mean, it's just both workmanlike mentalities, and it made it really easy for the transitioning phase.   
 Q.  Did you get any grief for your comment about letting Clemson know we're coming?  
KEN EKANEM: Just a little bit on Twitter here and there. But yeah, I didn't think it was going to take off like that.   
 Q.  I know you don't watch the offense all the time because you guys sit down and rest and all that stuff, but what have you seen from Jerod that has most impressed you this year?  
KEN EKANEM: I think his composure. You know, he kind of just has a short-term memory, and if something bad happens, he moves on to the next play. That's a really good trait to have in a QB. But yeah, I mean, we all feed off the offense, so once he gets going and the offense gets going, we start to play as a complete football team. It lights a fire underneath our butts and really gets us going, and once we get going early, it's kind of game over. It's really exciting to watch our offense this year compared to the past seasons.   
 Q.  When you heard he was coming, and I'm sure you heard about the 38 touchdowns and three interceptions, was there some need for you to see it in person just to prove that from junior college in Texas to ACC football that he could play at that level?  
KEN EKANEM: Yeah. I mean, definitely. But I think he proved his worth in the spring in winning the spot and during camp, too. So yeah, I mean, we saw a lot of promise in him in his time here before he won the job. You know, he's made a really good transition from JuCo to FBS football. Couldn't be more proud of him and the season that he's having.   
 Q.  What do you see that's different about the offense this year that's struggled in the past to get points and yards, this year it hasn't been as much of a struggle? Is it simply Jerod? Is it Coach Fuente's plans and schemes? You go against these guys; what do you think?  
KEN EKANEM: Well, I mean, I think it's Coach Fuente and Coach Cornelsen, and good QB play, like you said. But yeah, going against these guys, really pretty up tempo, and then from what I've seen, there's just so many different variations of plays. You've got to cover a lot -- a lot of teams now do the RPO's, and we do that, as well, that's run pass option. So I think we just do a really good job of QB's making pre-snap reads and knowing when to pull it and pass it and stuff like that.   
I think it's a good combination of Coach Fuente, Coach Cornelsen's play calling, and just being really smart on the field and making those reads and just executing.   
 Q.  You just referred to the fact that a lot of teams do run pass option now, so you see a lot of what they call dual-threat quarterbacks. Of course Deshaun Watson is an elite dual-threat quarterback. What's the secret to being able to keep pressure on him as the game goes along?  
KEN EKANEM: Well, I think we've just got to get after him early. He is a really great quarterback, probably one of the best quarterbacks in the nation. We've got to bring it early to him and hopefully get back there. But you know, he has a lot of good skill players around him and a solid offensive line, so it might be tough, but I think we're up to the task.   
 Q.  Is it the kind of thing that you know he might make some plays as the game goes on and you just buckle up and go on to the next play, or what's your mindset going into that?  
KEN EKANEM: Yeah. I mean, he's a Heisman candidate, so you know he's bound to make some plays every game he goes into. He's a guy that doesn't really make that many mistakes. Really good, talented player that we're going against. We've got to buckle down, and hopefully we can provide a couple stops here and there. But yeah, he's a pretty good quarterback. Really excited to go play against this guy, and really excited to play in this ACC Championship game.   
 Q.  Since you've never played them before, how would you like to introduce yourself to him on the field?  
KEN EKANEM: Hopefully on that first drive getting a sack. They've got a good offensive line, so it might be a little tough to get back there, but hopefully I can introduce myself pretty early.   
 Q.  You mentioned Clemson's offensive line; they have only allowed a few sacks this year. As you've started to look at them, what makes them so tough and what will you need to do to, as you said, introduce yourself to Deshaun?  
KEN EKANEM: Well, I haven't watched that much film besides the last game against South Carolina, but I think it's just a solid group. I don't think they make that many mistakes in protection wise and blocking assignment wise. I think they're just solid all the way around. I think they just really work as one. When you get an offensive line that does that, they're pretty much locked down when it comes to pass protection wise and in the run block assignments.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT