WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC POOL C: TORONTO
March 11, 2009
Marco Scutaro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  Q. Fair to say after Sunday's 15-6, that this game was little more than maybe some would think, even though there was really nothing on the line?  
 MARCO SCUTARO: Well, this win was very important, because it gave us the confidence, you know, to get to Miami and know that we can compete against the U.S.A., or any other team.  
  
  Q. What was it about tonight that made the difference? I mean, the pitching is something that kind of got away from Victor, didn't it?  
 MARCO SCUTARO: Definitely. I mean, the relievers, the first game, they didn't throw strikes. In this game, the U.S. hit us badly, the corners, and they were more aggressive in the first game.  
  
  Q. How much fun was it playing here? Was it a lot of fun knowing that this is your home park?  
 MARCO SCUTARO: Well, always when you are representing your country, it's always fun. Because you get to play with a lot of superstars, then you get to face your teammates, it's kind of different. So I really enjoyed it.  
  
  Q. Feel like you guys are peaking at the right time right now? You scored what 15 runs last night.   
 MARCO SCUTARO: Just trying to play as a team. We just tried to play hard every inning, every game. And, you know, this is a short series. The one that plays best and do the little things is the one who will win.  
  
  Q. What's the feeling like when you are out there in the ninth and K-Rod is on the mound?  
 MARCO SCUTARO: It's very good feeling. You got one of the best closers in the game on the mound, and you are pretty much confident he is going to get the job done.  
  
  Q. Do you think, the Dominicans are out, you guys have beat the U.S., do you think you are the best team right now?  
 MARCO SCUTARO: Like I said before, by names, I don't think we are the best team. I think the U.S. is a really good team. But like I said before, this is a short series, and whoever plays the best and do the little things, I think that's the one that is going to win the tournament or go to the next level.  
  
  Q. This isn't a championship, but beating the U.S. must be a big thing back home?  
 MARCO SCUTARO: Definitely. Especially a team like that. Like I said before, it gives us the confidence to know that we can compete, especially the bullpen. We have a lot of young guys, and the first game they were a little intimidated. But they got their confidence back and they did a pretty good job today.  
  
  Q. It appears you are going to play the Netherlands in the first round. Did you watch the game last night?  
 MARCO SCUTARO: Oh, yeah.  
  
  Q. What was your reaction to watching it and what you have to face?  
 MARCO SCUTARO: I was surprised. I mean, there's been a lot of surprises in this tournament. Like, Australia almost beat Cuba, too. They already beat Mexico. And the Netherlands beat twice the Dominican. That's one thing, that if you would have told me that before the tournament start, I wouldn't believe you.   
 That's why it's so great. You never know what's going to happen.  
  
  Q. Were you guys watching that game together a bunch of guys?  
 MARCO SCUTARO: Yeah.  
  
  Q. Were you still around here?  
 MARCO SCUTARO: Yeah, we were in the clubhouse.  
  
  Q. So I guess you have to be on your toes now, you know, because of the Dominicans, it might be a good thing for you?  
 MARCO SCUTARO: Definitely, because the Dominican had an unbelievable team. Like I said before, it's short series, you never know what's going to happen.  
  
  Q. After playing this leg in Toronto, what was your assessment of the crowd reaction, the fan support?  
 MARCO SCUTARO: It's pretty good. I mean, I think there's a lot of Venezuelans in Toronto. It was very nice. I mean, they're kind of loud, too, so I like that.  
  
  Q. What do you expect in Miami?  
 MARCO SCUTARO: That's going to be real nice.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT