BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
April 24, 2009
Robert Jan-Derksen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MICHAEL GIBBONS: Robert, give us your assessment of a great round of golf today. 
 ROBERT JAN-DERKSEN: Yeah, it was a difficult day. It didn't start too difficult. I would say the first eight holes were okay. It wasn't that windy. But then it picked up from 18 till my ninth. It was tough. 
 Every par was actually a good hole, and I managed to even squeeze in a few birdies. Hit one bad drive, which was on No. 4, and made a double-bogey there. That happens under these conditions; if you hit one bad shot on the wrong hole, you're going to get a big number. 
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: Tell us about No. 4. I believe you had a bit of an adventure there. 
 ROBERT JAN-DERKSEN: I definitely had an adventure on No. 4. Hit my only bad shot of the day. Went right. Hit a provisional; went left. 
 We all looked for the first ball for five minutes. Couldn't find it. So walked back to the left side where the provisional was. 
 I had a look, but I couldn't find that and then I saw the spotter there, and she explained to me that the ball was just lying here, and now it was gone. So we didn't know really what to do. Got a referee. Actually a Korean referee, as well. So he talked to the girl to make sure what had happened. And then the referee tried to get the spectator, who probably even picked up my ball, but we couldn't find him. So the girl was able to tell that the ball was there before, and so I had a free drop and continued from there, and I made double-bogey. 
 So at least it was good that the girl could tell me that the ball was there. If she wasn't there, then it was a lot of ball and it would have been even worse. 
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: And we have a very bad weather forecast for the weekend. Does that place an importance on your good first two rounds.
 ROBERT JAN-DERKSEN: I think so. It's always great to have a good start, but if the weather is expecting worse, then you never know whether it's going to be 72 holes or maybe 54 or whatever. 
 I guess it's difficult for everybody. But to be in the lead after two days, or at least close to the lead or whatever happens, it's always a good starting point. 

 Q. Can you talk about your form coming into this week? Were you confident coming here? 
 ROBERT JAN-DERKSEN: I wouldn't say very comfortable, but I worked on a few things the last few weeks. I worked on my swing a little bit, and I worked on the putting very hard. I missed actually the last three cuts, but I think it's always when you change something, it takes time. It's easy to change it on the range or on the putting green, but it's definitely more difficult to change it on Thursday morning and Friday. 
 I was working on the good things, and I was happy with the progress, but it just takes a little bit of time. Yeah, I'm happy now that after three weeks, it's coming together. 

 Q. So after the second round when it finishes if you are still the forerunner, if the weather in the third or fourth round is not very good, are you the type of golfer that plays it safe or would you play it very aggressively? 
 ROBERT JAN-DERKSEN: I think with the weather is really bad, you have to play a little bit more safe, because every par is actually a good score. 
 But of course, also depending what the other ones do, I think the bad weather, or difficult circumstances, would actually favor my kind of play. But I think the good thing of being the leader is you can see what the other ones are doing. So I'll definitely have to be patient when it's difficult weather. 

 Q. So you started very early in the morning, and in the earlier parts of the morning, the weather was a bit more soft than right now. Do you think that helped your game? 
 ROBERT JAN-DERKSEN: Yeah, definitely. I think I was lucky to start on No. 10, because I would rate 10 to 18 as the more difficult holes. I think the first eight holes, so 10 through 17, very calm. It was definitely a lot easier.
 18 was very tough. I think the wind was at its strongest, but I managed to make a par there, and I think that was very important for the rest of the round. 
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: Thank you very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT