THE QUINN DIRECT BRITISH MASTERS
September 21, 2007
Robert Jan-Derksen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ROBERT JAN-DERKSEN:  I am delighted with that score and five birdies on a tough day. I hit the fairways and greens and was able to get a low score in when the conditions were tough.   
 My mind-set didn't change when all the rain came down. I didn't think, 'I want to be in the clubhouse,' because I thought we were going to be lucky with only a few to play. But then it started to rain and okay, you accept it as part of the game. Fortunately I was lucky to finish on the ninth when the siren went and I was able to make the putt to finish on seven under.   
 It's nice to be co-leader. I've been playing well all year - I finished second in Russia and was close to a win - but there are still two days to go. If I can keep playing like this then I might have a chance come Sunday afternoon.   
 I started the day thinking every par would be good golf, as it was so windy, and I managed to get a birdied on the first par three on the back nine I played, and then I kept hitting good shots and then some putts went in. Suddenly I was a few under par and then I think luckily for us, the wind dropped. Then the rain came in, which was not great, but the wind going down was good for us.   
 On these days you look for pars - birdies are bonuses. It was nice to drop only one shot in conditions like this. I was looking at the leaderboard on the 18th, at the halfway point of my round and ninth hole, and thought that play wasn't  that good. But I didn't pay too much attention to it at that stage. We were only 27 holes into the tournament. But as long as you're on the first and second page after two rounds, it's okay.   
 It would be nice to get into contention and have a chance, as I've been playing well this year and was second in Russian. Of course, you're always looking for one better.   
 I like playing here in Birmingham. It's weird, I always seem to do well here at The Belfry or at the Forest of Arden. I don't know why - but maybe I can tell you on Sunday."   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT