ING NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
November 2, 2003
Clint Wells
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
CLINT WELLS:  Everything was going smooth for 10, 11 miles.  Somewhere half marathon, my legs felt hard.  They felt really pounded.  I still managed to go through in 1:07 and some.  So I was still on pace at halfway.  Then I got to the 59th Street Bridge and that pretty much put me under. 
 
Q.   What is it like when you are going through that?  You know, you have trained so hard, you come out with a certain expectation, then it crumbles how does that sort of feel?
 
CLINT WELLS:  In some ways I was kind of confused as to how within a one-mile span -- I have never really had that happen before.  Within a one-mile span I went from really smooth at 5:08 pace to almost instantly 7-minute pace.  I bonked I guess you would call it.  I ran out of fuel.  I wasn't breathing hard at all.  My cardiovascular was really doing really well the whole time.  My legs just went out from under me, so at certain points in the race I was able to get them back and I could go, I can pick it back up again but it would only last for around 400 meters or so then it was back to 6, 7, I don't know what pace I was running. 
 
Q.   Is it a humbling experience?
 
CLINT WELLS:  It's a very humbling experience.  It makes me  -- I mean, the conclusion I came to is that I don't think I really trained or prepared well enough for it.  It definitely gives me some insight as to maybe how I am going to do stuff differently.  I think I am going to have to wear different shoes as well because I started getting a bit of a blister on my right foot at about seven or eight miles, which I started limping slightly and then my left quad and hamstring started hurting mid-race.  And then that also hampered my ability to go much faster because since I started to pick it up a little bit, my hamstring would start to cramp.  So I had to slow it back down again.  There was lots of things I learned definitely throughout this race.  One of the most humbling experiences I have had.  I am not sure even if I want to do another one right now. 
 
Q.   Is there a chance you may change your mind in the next few weeks or months, do you feel you will do another marathon in the near future?
 
CLINT WELLS:  No, my goal coming into this was never really to qualify for the Olympic trials for the marathon.  In the back of my mind, I just wanted to experiment with it for the future  -- for maybe 2008.  However, I have always wanted  -- I still wanted to go back to the track and run the trials on the track and so I will not be doing another marathon probably until, you know, the fall of 2005, 2006, maybe Boston, I don't know.  I don't even know, but it's going to be at least a year. 
 
Q.   You will sleep on it?
 
CLINT WELLS:  Yeah, long sleep.  
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT