MLB WORLD SERIES: INDIANS v MARLINS
October 22, 1997
Livan Hernandez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Did you ever pitch in snow?
 
LIVAN HERNANDEZ:   This year at Charlotte and last year in Portland in AA there was a lot of times it was very cold. 
 

Q.  Was that the first time you had seen snow?
 
LIVAN HERNANDEZ:   Uh-huh. 
 

Q.  Has your mother arrived to see the World Series games?
 
LIVAN HERNANDEZ:   I don't know anything about that right now and I don't know about anything that's happening. 
 

Q.  Livan, are you uncomfortable in cold temperatures?
 
LIVAN HERNANDEZ:   That's resolved with a little bit of coffee and just go out and throw the baseball. 
 

Q.  Livan, do you expect that your mother might be here?  Is there any way of knowing or do you expect that she could be here by tomorrow?
 
LIVAN HERNANDEZ:   I don't know anything about what's going on.  I don't know if she's coming, I  don't know if she's staying in Cuba.  I don't know anything about the news and reports that have been coming out.  I wish she was here, but I really don't know anything about it. 
 

Q.  How much would it mean to you if she was here tomorrow night?
 
LIVAN HERNANDEZ:   100 percent, I'd love her to be here 100 percent, but right now I don't know anything that's happening. 
 

Q.  When was the last time that you talked to her and what did she tell you at that time?
 
LIVAN HERNANDEZ:   I talked to her a few days ago, but I can't tell you at what time or on what day. 
 

Q.  Your manager says that you're in your own world right now or maybe in your own world right now and it's probably a good thing.  Is it true and are you in your own world right now?
 
LIVAN HERNANDEZ:   I'm feeling real good right now.  I'm in the World Series, and it's a dream. Right now I'm feeling real, real good, and everything is great right now.  It's something incredible for me, it's been only two years since I arrived from Cuba and now I'm in the World Series.  And to have an opportunity to throw in the World Series. 
 

Q.  Livan, you've won a game in the World Series  already, your team is ahead 2 games to one, do you deep down feel that your team is going to be able to win the World Series?
 
LIVAN HERNANDEZ:   Well, I did get the first win and I was real excited about that.  I owe it all to my teammates and I owe it all to catcher, Charles Johnson for the game he called.  Our team is a team that doesn't give up, we're not quitters, they're going to battle and battle all the way up through the 9th inning.  So we're going to battle and we're going to fight throughout the entire time. 
 

Q.  Livan, do you feel that the number of prominent successful Latin American players like yourself in the Series has had an impact in the Latin American community here and do you see any results of that?
 
LIVAN HERNANDEZ:   There's a lot of Latins, and not only the ones that are doing well in the World Series, there are a lot that help their team make it to the World Series.  And you see a lot of collaboration among the Latins with the players that are doing well. 
 

Q.  Livan, could you assess what you did well and what you didn't do quite as well in your first performance and what you need to do better this time around? 
 
LIVAN HERNANDEZ:   In the first game I was behind hitters and my breaking balls weren't -- I wasn't throwing them very well.  Charles Johnson helped me a lot in moving the ball around and to spot my pitches.  To try to go out there and spot my pitches well, throw well and forget about the cold. 
 

Q.  Just to clarify, didn't you see a lot of snow when you went to Boston on the recruiting trip and also Toronto?
 
LIVAN HERNANDEZ:   I did get to see snow in Boston and New York.  I never had the opportunity to go to Toronto when I was making those trips, but where I really saw a lot of it was last year in AA and AAA. 
 

Q.  Jim Leyland says you shouldn't be afraid of the cold, you should respect it, what are your thoughts on that?
 
LIVAN HERNANDEZ:   Right now to be honest with you I don't like the cold, I don't like to pitch in the cold, but I like it when it's hot.  But these are the times where you can't worry about whether it's hot or cold, you've just got to go out and pitch and do the best job you can. 
 

Q.  Can you talk a little about what your eating habits are, and how that compares to when you were first here, the whole transition there? 
 
LIVAN HERNANDEZ:   I've changed a lot mentally and I've changed a lot physically, and even in the foods that I eat, like McDonalds I'm leaving it off to the side now.  I'm eating more salads now, that I never liked.  And I've changed a lot in the way I pitch and most importantly in my mental outlook towards it. I'm a different pitcher than the one that first arrived. 
 

Q.  Livan, you've talked often about how your brother taught you everything about pitching, I've wondered about if you've spoken to him and how happy he is with your success in being in the World Series?
 
LIVAN HERNANDEZ:   My brother taught me a lot about pitching in Cuba.  He's very happy with the job I'm doing, and we've talked and he's really excited about where I am right now. 
 

Q.  Livan, now that you're on the Major League level of playing here, how many players do you know in Cuba that could play at this level that you've played with in Cuba?
 
LIVAN HERNANDEZ:   That's one of the most difficult decisions that a person has.  Not everyone has the same thought patterns.  I thought about my family, but also knowing that the possibility existed that I could help them.  And I also thought about  liberty.  There's a lot of players in Cuba who don't even know, like I was, don't even know about this and what exists here.  And I feel this is the best baseball in the world.  It's the land of opportunity.  And you can help your family. 
 

Q.  Just purely on a baseball level, how many do you think could play on this level?
 
LIVAN HERNANDEZ:   There's a lot of them, probably -- there's a lot.  But the majority don't think the same way I do, so they'll never be able to play at this level. 
 

Q.  Is it important in the sight of the Cubans for a player to leave Cuba to be able to have success?
 
LIVAN HERNANDEZ:   It's very important because this is the best baseball in the world.  In Cuba you can be a success in everything, but unless you can do it at this level there's really nothing there, I mean this is the best baseball in the world and this is where you have to prove that you can play. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT