MLB WORLD SERIES: INDIANS v MARLINS
October 17, 1997
Livan Hernandez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. What do you know about Orel Hershiser?

LIVAN HERNANDEZ: I know he's a great pitcher in the Major Leagues, and a pitcher that
moves the ball around a lot. He's one of the best pitchers there is in baseball.

Q. What was the biggest game you ever pitched in Cuba?

LIVAN HERNANDEZ: Well, I once threw a game where they got the first hit, a one-hitter
with two outs in the 9th inning, to me that's probably the best game I've ever pitched.

Q. Have you spoken to your mom since Sunday?

LIVAN HERNANDEZ: Yes, I did speak to her.

Q. Anymore information?

LIVAN HERNANDEZ: No, that's all the information I have (laughter.)

Q. Has the postseason been physically draining on you? 

LIVAN HERNANDEZ: No, I feel real good. I feel very strong physically right now.

Q. What do you know about the Cleveland Indians?

LIVAN HERNANDEZ: I pitched against them in Spring Training, they're a team that has a
lot of power, they're a team that makes a lot of contact. They got here because they're a
great team in the American League.

Q. Did you see the games that they played against the Orioles, and did you see what the
Orioles did, because they didn't hit them very well?

LIVAN HERNANDEZ: Yeah, I did get to see parts of the games, I didn't get to see them
all because I had things to do. But I did see parts of them. I saw they didn't hit the
Orioles very well, but you can't rest on that, because that's just false confidence.

Q. What is the definition for a rookie to be working in the first game of the World
Series?

LIVAN HERNANDEZ: No, they've given me the opportunity to pitch this game and I just
need to go out and do my job, do my work. And they gave me the opportunity, I'm just going
to go out and try to help the team.

Q. How have you changed, as a pitcher, since you faced the Indians in Spring Training?

LIVAN HERNANDEZ: I've changed a lot. I've changed physically, I've changed my pitches,
I've changed my outlook, I've changed my technique, I think I've changed a lot.

Q. Were you a better pitcher this year than last year? How much did the cultural
adjustment have to do with it?

LIVAN HERNANDEZ: Last year there were a lot of things affecting me, that's one of the
reasons I had a lot of problems. All those worries have been going away slowly, they
haven't been as great, and that's probably why I've had a better year.

Q. What kind of worries, and what things have gone away?

LIVAN HERNANDEZ: The preoccupations with adjusting to the American way of life, the
worries about my family and how they were doing. Well, you know, the worries about the
food and I ate too much and adjusting to the differences in food. I had no friends, I
didn't know anyone really. It was a lot of stuff.

Q. How much did you worry about the repercussions of leaving on your family?

LIVAN HERNANDEZ: You worry a lot about it, it's your family and you left them there.
And you have to worry a lot about it, it's probably the biggest decision I've ever made in
my life.

Q. When you visited Texas as a free agent, did you, at any time, seriously consider
signing with Texas?

LIVAN HERNANDEZ: I went to the stadium, and that's about it.

Q. Do you have any recollection of watching any World Series games, were you able to
watch any as a kid in Cuba or did you see any World Series games?

LIVAN HERNANDEZ: In Cuba I saw the '92, '93 World Series on video cassette.

Q. You've never seen a World Series game live before?

LIVAN HERNANDEZ: In Cuba they don't put on the World Series. No, I never had the
opportunity to see one, but now I'm getting the opportunity to not only see one but play
in one.

Q. How about last year's?

LIVAN HERNANDEZ: Last year I saw the final game between the Yankees. It's very
emotional and I saw how great it is to win.

Q. How did you get a copy of the videotape of the World Series? 

LIVAN HERNANDEZ: It wasn't me who got it, it was friends who had family and contacts
here in the United States and they were able to send it to Cuba and it got passed on to
me.

Q. Can you compare the pressure of pitching in the postseason World Series to pitching
for the Cuban National Team at some of the big games. My second question is, do you
believe your brother, Orlando, will ever make it out of Cuba.

LIVAN HERNANDEZ: The differences are great. The baseball in Cuba ask amateur baseball,
and here we were playing the best baseball in the world. It's the best players in the
world, the best batters. It's a lot more difficult here, but it's a lot more comfortable.
Here it's a lot more comfortable in the methods and the way baseball players are treated.
In Cuba you go to the baseball park on a bicycle in your uniform.

Q. The second part of the question, do you think your brother is going to get out of
Cuba?

LIVAN HERNANDEZ: That's a question I can't really answer. I mean no one knows what's
going to happen, and it's just a question I can't begin to answer.

Q. Despite the fact that in Cuba it's amateur baseball and here it's professional,
compare the pressure of pitching for a team and a country?

LIVAN HERNANDEZ: The difference between playing for a team and playing for a country,
here it's just a group of guys playing together for a common cause, playing for a goal,
playing for a ring, playing for each other and something that years down the road you can
look back at and be real happy with. In Cuba it's something that you were chosen to do,
you were selected to do, and you basically just played it for roughly translated, for
blind love, for something that you weren't even aware of what you were doing.

Q. Just to clarify this. So last year's final World Series game is the only World
Series game you've ever watched live?

LIVAN HERNANDEZ: Yes, that is the last one and the only one.

Q. On television?

LIVAN HERNANDEZ: Television.

Q. The young player coming over here from Cuba, what advice would you give them?

LIVAN HERNANDEZ: In this country the first thing you've got to do is don't go crazy
(laughter.) The things here in this country you have to work them very well; find good
friends. At that time a lot of friends come up to you that know you and they want to get
close to you and you don't know who they are, but they really want to get close to you at
that time. And to come here and work, work hard and work at baseball as if it's the most
important thing in your life, and your career is the most important thing. And to work
hard, because this is the country of opportunity, like they say. Everyone comes with
different qualities and qualifications in sport, but it's something you can't just say you
have, you have to demonstrate them, you have to show them. And you can only do that by
working.

Q. Do you have any regrets whatsoever about leaving, whether it has to do with you or
your family?

LIVAN HERNANDEZ: My mind is still the same as when I came, I haven't changed at all. At
times a person gets upset or mad, but that's the way things are.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT