MLB WORLD SERIES: INDIANS v MARLINS
October 23, 1997
Livan Hernandez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Did you have anything left for the 9th inning or were you spent?

LIVAN HERNANDEZ:   I felt fine.  I felt strong.  I gave up a man on base, and then Vizquel hit two-out single, I felt fine.  At that time comes the time of the closer, and he came in and did his job.


Q.  It looked like you had your foot right on the bag on that call, what was your reaction to that?

LIVAN HERNANDEZ:   I really don't know.  I don't know if I did or not.  But to be honest with you I really don't know.  I went by it running.


Q.  Do you think the people at home know how well you did tonight?

LIVAN HERNANDEZ:   Yeah, and they saw me, as well.


Q.  How do we know that?

LIVAN HERNANDEZ:   Because it's a secret.


Q.  Livan, it looked like you lost your poise at the end of the second inning, what helped you get it back?

LIVAN HERNANDEZ:   When I get angry like  that, it helps me concentrate better.  I don't get angry when I'm on the diamond, but when I'm done it helps me get fired up, when I come off the field, helps me concentrate better, because I know I did something wrong.


Q.  Did you get mad when Jim Leyland took you out of the game?

LIVAN HERNANDEZ:   No, I wasn't mad at Jim Leyland, I might have been a little mad at myself because I threw Vizquel a pitch that I probably shouldn't have thrown, but I wasn't mad at him at all. I had to throw him a breaking ball in that situation, so I could get a ground ball for a double play.


Q.  After the second inning Alex Fernandez was talking to you in the dugout and seemed to calm you down, what exactly did he say?

LIVAN HERNANDEZ:   To take it easy, to take it slow, to calm myself down, there was still a lot of baseball to be played and we were going to win the game.


Q.  Did he speak to you about the reaction you were having on the mound?

LIVAN HERNANDEZ:   No, really all he said was just to take it easy, take it calm, slow down, there's still a lot of baseball game to be played. 


Q.  Livan, did you think about your mother listening to the game while you were pitching tonight, did you think about your mom?

LIVAN HERNANDEZ:   When I get out there, I really can't think about her, because if I do I'll wind up getting into a lot of trouble, and I'll start worrying about everything out there.  I think about her before, and I think about her right now, I'm thinking about her, but at the time I'm there, I take her out there with me, but I really can't think about it.


Q.  It seemed you calmed down after the homerun, can you tell us about the pitch you threw and what you did to calm down?

LIVAN HERNANDEZ:   He hit a fastball down and in and he did it well, but then I was able to calm down by just moving my pitches around.


Q.  Livan, a lot of walks tonight, eight bases on balls, you had only given up four walks in the postseason before tonight, what was the problem?

LIVAN HERNANDEZ:   Eight?  (Laughter.) I was able to throw a lot of balls down, where they were able to hit grounders for double plays, and others where they were just ground outs.


Q.  Did he get a lift from Alou's homerun?

LIVAN HERNANDEZ:   That homerun was the nail  that inning, it got us all excited, it helped me out a lot, and the whole dugout, we all got very, very excited, screamed a lot for Moises, and it helped a lot.


Q.  What did it feel like pitching in that kind of temperature, you're used to pitching in temperatures much higher than that?

LIVAN HERNANDEZ:   I think the cold actually helped me.  I felt fresh, I felt cool out there, and I was even sweating.


Q.  Did the call at first affect you in a way that if he'd have made a different call you would have been able to finish the game?

LIVAN HERNANDEZ:   Those are things that happen in the game.  Perhaps if he was out, maybe I could have gotten three outs, but those things happen in the game, and as it was I didn't finish the game.  I really don't know, I think maybe I didn't step on the bag.


Q.  Livan, you talked a little bit about what Alex Fernandez was saying to you, was Charles Johnson saying things along the same line or was he talking more mechanical kinds of things?

LIVAN HERNANDEZ:   Charles Johnson is just a great catcher, he's always saying things, helping you  out throughout the game.  And as always I owe it to Charles Johnson for the game he called and to the great team that plays behind me.  He helps me concentrate, especially when I'm doing something mechanically that's not right, he comes over and helps me and points it out.  Same as a few of the infielders, they'll come over there and they'll come close and they'll help me out as well.  And even though some people may not agree, that helps the pitcher out a lot.  It gives them -- it relaxes them and it also gives them more courage.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT