PILOT PEN TENNIS AT YALE
August 26, 2010
Sergiy Stakhovsky
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. STAKHOVSKY/M. Baghdatis
  5-7, 6-1, 7-6

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Obviously you had a long day, but it looked like he was tired and you weren't. 
 SERGIY STAKHOVSKY: I wouldn't say so. I would say we were both tired. It was really an exhausting match, not only physically. Some of the shots were really... 
 I would say that if I would be more fit today, I would more or less be more nervous because some of the shots that Marcos done today was out of another league, I would say. 

 Q. Have you played two matches in one day before?
 SERGIY STAKHOVSKY: Two days in a row. I played yesterday to finish and then played a set with Robredo, then today to finish with Robredo to play with Marcos. I would say I have a nice long streak here in tennis. 

 Q. You don't get a day off tomorrow. 
 SERGIY STAKHOVSKY: I don't need a hotel. I could sleep in the lounge. Why not? 

 Q. Were you relieved when the match got pushed to 7:00?
 SERGIY STAKHOVSKY: Not really. I was quite angry actually 'cause I finished 11:30. I got in bed about 1:00 or something. I wake up at 8:00 to get here by 10:00 to get ready for the match. Waiting all the time until 7:00. 
 I was quite falling asleep when I walked on the court. Thanks God I didn't fall asleep and managed to play actually some quite good tennis.

 Q. How big of a win is this for you? 
 SERGIY STAKHOVSKY: How big is the win? I think it's big. Marcos is playing really good now. I know that maybe today wasn't his best day and he had a really tough streak going from Cincinnati to here, here playing two matches back to back. 
 I definitely played a great match today. I was a bit lucky in the second set when he just lost his focus, I think. I was lucky to save that game at Love-30, I think 5-6 in the third. 
 So I'm really pleased to win the match (smiling). 

 Q. Can you talk about 5-1 in the second, and he did a dropshot, you managed to save that, a lob. Seemed like every shot you tried was working. 
 SERGIY STAKHOVSKY: I would say that both of us more or less were using the shot that are not used permanently. 
 But that was quite a nice rally. He could have dropshot'd a bit better after my whatever shot. But, yeah, I hope the people enjoyed because some shots, I mean, some rallies were really nice to watch, I believe. Marcos is specializing in these ones.

 Q. You used the dropshot very effectively. Is that a big part of your game?
 SERGIY STAKHOVSKY: I use it quite often. Unfortunately, not often it's working as a weapon (smiling). But, yeah, I'm using just to break the rhythm down, just to break the opponent down.

 Q. Did it surprise you today when it did work?
 SERGIY STAKHOVSKY: It actually didn't work that well. I maybe won half of them only because Marcos is quite quick on his legs. He was getting there in time. It was not an easy match today.

 Q. He mentioned his legs were getting tired because of some of the dropshots. Could you sense that at all?
 SERGIY STAKHOVSKY: I was trying to play more when I could, even when the score was 40-Love or 40-15 for him, just to make him run a bit. I knew he was tired at some point. I just needed to get him more there. 

 Q. Have you won any tournaments this year? How far have you advanced in any tournaments? Is this one of your better tournament runs?
 SERGIY STAKHOVSKY: I won three already. This year I won one. Actually, I haven't lost in the semis yet, just for the record. In the finals, didn't lose yet. 

 Q. How many finals have you been in this year?
 SERGIY STAKHOVSKY: One. One last year, one 2008. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT