NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: KINGS v DEVILS
May 31, 2012
Ryan Carter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Ryan Carter.   
   
 Q.   When you guys fell behind in the first three series, were there significant changes made to turn things around?   Are you in that position again?   
RYAN CARTER:   No, I don't think significant changes were made.   Learned from the games, moved forward.   You know, we've been tested, I guess, throughout those playoffs in situations where we've been behind in series and things like that.   I anticipate this being no different where we learn from that last game, move forward.   
We've got confidence in that locker room.   I think that will hopefully show next game.   
   
 Q.   Pete DeBoer just said a few minutes ago you had to be better.   He pointed to execution.   From the player's standpoint, where do you think you need to be better in the next game?  
RYAN CARTER:   I think he's spot on.   Execution is one of those areas.   I think nerves, jitters, ice.   I don't know.   You can point to a couple different areas.   I think at times we were careless with the puck a little bit and got away from what got us where we're at, turning it over and not making the plays that we're used to making.   That created a little momentum for them, some room.   You can't give that up this time of year.   
   
 Q.   It seemed like the Kings win the game on a breakaway.   They had a couple two‑on‑ones.   Was that just something you guys were making mistakes?   Were they just playing very well?  
RYAN CARTER:   Yeah, anytime a team gives up a two‑on‑one or a breakaway, there's obviously a mistake.   They're few and far between.   You have to be careful.   We had our chances in that game.   Outplayed or not, poor execution or not, we had our chance to win that game.   
We've got to look into that, stay positive, try to find a way to win the next one.   That's what's most important.   
   
 Q.   In what areas did you learn more about the Kings last night from playing them as opposed to watching them on film?  
RYAN CARTER:   Yeah, I think the execution, too, we kind of sat back, waited to learn them a little bit.   That obviously is a mistake.   We should have gone out there and played our game.   We'll take today and tomorrow, watch the video, learn from it.   
They're a good group.   They've got some strong D, obviously a good goaltender.   We got to find ways to keep the puck away from the goaltender, get our forecheck going, get back to our game.   I think we'll learn quite a few things from that last one.   
   
 Q.   Did your hitting get you back in the game?  
RYAN CARTER:   Their hitting?   
   
 Q.   Yours.   
RYAN CARTER:   Yeah, that's a momentum thing.   If you get a timely big body check, it can fuel the crowd.   It was a home crowd.   That first period, I don't know that we gave them too much to cheer about.   When you can get the energy back in the building, you can feed off a big hit like that, there's no question it can get you back into the game.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, Ryan.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT