SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 15, 2021
Parker McLachlin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. I know the week didn't go the way you wanted.  Just your overall assessment of the last two days?
 PARKER McLACHLIN:   Yeah, I think yesterday I had a lot of firepower.  Made a few silly mistakes.  Kind of turned a 65 or 66 into a 70 and today was kind of a grind on the front nine.  The wind sort of switched directions on us a bit, so a few awkward tee balls.  You know, just sort of grinded out 1-over on the front nine.  I'm thinking, okay, if I can make a few on the back nine, I might have a chance.  But just got one bad break there on our 11th hole, and that was kind of it.
 So obviously disappointed, but saw a lot of good stuff on Thursday.
 Q. What's next for you?
 PARKER McLACHLIN:   Yeah, I've got a handful of things that I'm sort of working on.  I'm doing some PGA TOUR Live broadcasting.  I've got a few of those coming up.  Been working on some short game teaching.  I have a few high-level players I work with and I have a couple inventions that go along with that that will be coming out in the next few months.
 I've got a lot of things that are sort of keeping me busy.  It was fun to train for this week and try to put myself in a spot to succeed, and obviously I'm not pleased with the results, but I've got a lot of things that I'm kind of working on going forward.
 Q. Do those things excite you just as much as competing?
 PARKER McLACHLIN:   I tell you, in quarantine, sort of coming up with some inventions was actually really fun.  It was creatively stimulating, and going and preparing a pitch for -- I pitched my idea to one of the major manufacturers, and it was picked up by them.
 So something like that gets your heart racing and you're up at night thinking about it and whatnot.  Yeah, it sort of maybe doesn't necessarily fill the void completely of competitive and competitive golf, but it definitely it has a similar type of feeling, right.  So speaking on camera, doing the PGA TOUR Live, when the red light goes on, you have to be toward say what's on your mind.  Very similar types of performance; you want to be at your best.
 Q. So is there no future tournaments right now in your future?
 PARKER McLACHLIN:   I would guess potentially Puerto Rico would be my next start.  But I don't have anything -- I don't have anything on the books just yet.  We'll see what happens.  But Puerto Rico, Punta Cana, would be probably a logical next step for me, end of February, mid-March.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT