TURNING STONE RESORT CHAMPIONSHIP
September 22, 2007
Parker McLachlin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  7-under today, just a nice, fun round of golf.   
 PARKER McLACHLIN:  Man, nothing like a Saturday morning going out and making a bunch of birdies to start and hitting fairways, hitting greens.  And it's like, man, let's go play two more, you know?  So that's fun out there.  It's not as taxing on your body to have to hit balls out of the rough or anything.  It was just fairways and greens; it's easy golf out there.   
  
  Q.  Amazing how much energy you have left in you after making four birdies in a row, you birdied 2, 3, 4, 5.   
 PARKER McLACHLIN:  That will get the energy going pretty good for you.  I guess yesterday I went four in a row, and the day before that, went three in a row.  I seem to get them in strings out here, especially on the front nine.   
 So, yeah, I've been enjoying the front nine.  It's been treating me good so far.   
  
  Q.  And a nice ruling at the last rule on 18.  It looked like your heel was just kind of going down into where that sprinkler head was, but you had to bring the rules official over just to make sure you were doing the right thing, and it worked out.   
 PARKER McLACHLIN:  Yeah, there's a really big indentation right where the sprinkler head was, and so my right foot was six inches below and just really awkward.   
 I called him over just to see, and it looks like the sprinkler goes somewhere underneath where your heel is, and he gave me relief.  It worked out great, because it would have been a little more challenging shot, and I executed it pretty well.   
  
  Q.  That was four inches, come on!   
 PARKER McLACHLIN:  All right; it was off the hook.   
  
  Q.  That's what I'm talkin' about.  Now, any big college football games going on today that you're worried about?   
 PARKER McLACHLIN:  Dude, I lost a lot of hope last week had UCLA got beat 44-6 to Utah.  My National Championship hopes went down the drain.   
 If USC loses, I wouldn't be sad.   
  
  Q.  As long as you don't root against Penn State.  The way my Eagles started, that's all we've got left.   
 PARKER McLACHLIN:  As long as you're not playing the Bruins, you're okay.   
  
  Q.  Now going into tomorrow, you've got to keep the same mind-set, just go out and play and have fun; right?   
 PARKER McLACHLIN:  Yeah, it looks like the last time I teed it up was the Nationwide event in West Virginia and had that big 7-shot lead and sort of changed my mind-set going into the last round and started in college football terms, starting playing the prevent defense.  That didn't work out.   
  
  Q.  Which doesn't prevent anything.   
 PARKER McLACHLIN:  Just makes the other team score a lot quicker.   
 So, I learned from that.  And this week, really sort of my model from last week, and this week is just pedal to the medal.  If I make a birdie, make another one.  Hit the ball in the fairway; all right, let's go put it on the green, close to the hole.  Just really thinking about making birdies, and you've got to do that out here.  These guys are good, right?   
 So you've just got to keep the pedal to the medal.  If you think that seven birdies in a round is enough; it's not.  You've got to make eight, you've got to make nine and the last couple of days, I've made seven and eight birdies, so I think just staying on that trend will be a good thing for me.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT