INDIANA UNIVERSITY BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
February 12, 2020
Armaan Franklin
Aljami Durham
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Coach Miller was just talking about the need for player leadership at a time like this, when you're slumping a little basically and need for guys to step up and have a voice. Who is that on, basically, and what has to happen for you guys -- who do you feel like has to do that, step up and take control here?  
ALJAMI DURHAM: I feel like, I would take part ownership in that. I feel like me being one of the older players, I've got to make sure that everybody is accounted for and everyone is, you know, doing their part.   
I feel like we got to step up. Everyone has to step up in their role, step up and bring some energy to the table and make sure everyone is accounted for and everyone has each other's back. I feel like we all got to step up in our roles and play better for sure.   
 Q.  In terms of the turnovers, seems like one half is good, and another half is isn't. What do you think falls off in those moments and what have you done in practice to try to eliminate that?  
ALJAMI DURHAM: I think we got to be more locked in coming out in the second half, or whether it's the first half or second half or flip them, vice versa. I feel like we have to stay locked in for 40 minutes, not 20. So we have to be able to carry over one 20 minutes and carry it over and not have 20 minutes of turning the ball over, and the next 20 minutes we play a clean half. We have to start and finish like we want to, and we've been working on it in practice and emphasizing it. I feel like we've just been doing that, really.   
 Q.  Coach has talked before about not being afraid to trim the rotation if he feels that's what's going to be best, if going with a tighter lineup is going to work. I think he made similar comments Monday night. Do you see a sense of urgency in moments like that if what we are doing is not working, I'm not afraid to change it, I need you guys to maybe change my mind, for lack of a better term.  
ALJAMI DURHAM: I mean, it is what it is. I feel like if that's what it is, and if it's for the betterment of the team, then it is so what it is.   
But I feel like everyone can contribute. Everyone can step up and everyone can come out -- if that's what it is, it is but at the same time I feel like anyone can step up for us and play good and unite.   
 Q.  You may have watched from afar -- what are you trying to maybe say as a younger player, trying to learn from the older player priors to try to snap out of something like?  
ARMAAN FRANKLIN: It's something I've never been a part of before. You've just got to go by the other players' lead. They have been through similar things like this before and you just kind of like have to gain knowledge from them on what they know and how to get out of it and snap out of it and just -- this is hard being a freshman, to speak up. But that's something I've got to work on to get better at for the betterment of the team, I've got to do it.   
 Q.  Iowa has some really good shooters. Is it harder to get out of the perimeter when they have somebody like Luka on the inside?  
ALJAMI DURHAM: Say it one more time. My bad.   
 Q.  Some really good three-point shooters -- is it because they also have Garza?  
ALJAMI DURHAM: We all know Garza has been playing great basketball right now.   
I feel like them having shooters; we have to do both. We have to be able to help on the inside and recover and have each other's back. We've been working on it in practice and we've been covering it. I feel like we've gone over the game plan for it. We just have Coach applying it and go over it, and I feel like it will translate into the game for sure.   
 Q.  Is there an issue with what happened with Purdue on three-point shooting? Some of these past games, teams have really shot well against you. What did the film show you in that regard?  
ALJAMI DURHAM: We've had our lapses on defense for sure. I feel like we've turned the page on it. We have learned from it. We've looked over and talked about it and I feel like we are just trying to take a step forward to learn from the experiences we've had in the past and just become better from it.   
 Q.  For either player, do you sense there's a togetherness right now going through this and who, if any players are trying to kind of bring everyone together if there is?  
ARMAAN FRANKLIN: I think there's a sense of togetherness for sure. You know, when you lose four straight, all you have is each other. You can't listen to the outside sources. You have to be in the room with each other and progress every day with one another. You just can't listen to the outside noises.   
 Q.  Either of you: Trying to get the guards maybe in the paint more, trying to attack downhill; that a point of emphasis and if so, what are you going to try to maybe change if you come off a screen, try to maybe attack, as opposed to maybe pull it back out or something?  
ARMAAN FRANKLIN: I think for us, attacking opens a lot for more us. We can attack, dish it out to the bigs, attack and dish it out to the guards. Us being able to attack downhill opens up more for the offense instead of just hanging around the perimeter.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT