INDIANA UNIVERSITY BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
December 28, 2019
Aljami Durham
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk about the unique challenge of playing against Arkansas with their personnel, a much smaller lineup than you're used to playing against.
ALJAMI DURHAM: Yeah, we're aware that they play small there and they are a bunch of guards and there's a lot of guard play, so we got to be able to sit down, guard the ball, keep them in front of us and get stops and allow that to lead our game. And let the defensive side dictate the offensive side.
Q. Having the one game in the two-week span, how much has that helped everybody just kind of take a breath and refresh themselves from the grind that you guys were in?
ALJAMI DURHAM: Yeah, it's always a good break. You get a restart button, I feel like, and it gives us some juice back, and you get ready to come back, ready to play again. So I feel like it's just it gave us a refresher and everybody was eager to get back to work, so I feel like it was a good thing for us.
Q. What do you guys do to try to help the freshmen kind of make that adjustment, because now they don't have to worry about school, they have been through a little bit of the season, and how do you help them?
ALJAMI DURHAM: School's a lot. School's a ton of work. You got to put in the hours, so just not having that load on them, they are kind of relieved. So I feel like with that relief they are focused, more dialed in on basketball.
Q. What would it mean to you guys to get through the non-conference season undefeated, win all those games?
ALJAMI DURHAM: It's always a good thing to have. What, how many games was it in non-conference? I don't even know, but just going undefeated in non-conference is a big thing. But I feel like each game is important to us and we're going to just take it one by one, but it's a good thing to have in your pocket.
Q. What do you think this team improved the most during this time up to this point? How do you think you guys have really improved?
ALJAMI DURHAM: From the beginning to now? Oh, just paying attention to details and being locked in. And we have improved a lot on defense, I feel like. We have taken strides from the beginning to now and I feel like that's our biggest thing.
Q. How do you get everybody to find that consistent level of play that I know that Coach is really pushing for you guys?
ALJAMI DURHAM: Bringing it every day in practice. You reap what you sow. I feel like if you put in the work every day in practice you'll be able to do it in the game. So I feel like us going against each other in practice and continuing to make each other better, I think it's making us a better team.
Q. We asked Armaan after the game, I mean, you made that extra pass for him to hit that three against Notre Dame, what gave you faith to go to him again?
ALJAMI DURHAM: I knew he was going to make it. I had no doubt at all. So it was nothing but swinging it to him. I always told him if he's open, knock it down. And I always told him that I'm going to pass that 10 times out of 10, really, if he is open. So I feel like he, I have faith in him to knock it down and our team did, so it was no problem passing him the ball.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT