INDIANA UNIVERSITY BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
March 22, 2019
Aljami Durham
Zach McRoberts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Do you practice with the hoodie under the --
ALJAMI DURHAM: No, it was a little cold downstairs and I had to wear some Indiana stuff, so I just threw it over.
Q. You've seen Arkansas's pressure already once this season.  I know they're a little bit of a without Gafford, but the backcourt guys, just what do you have to prepare for, and are there maybe some points of comparison with Illinois?  Obviously you played them late in the season.
ALJAMI DURHAM: Yes, there is.  I feel like we've played the pressure already between them and Illinois, so I feel like we've just got to execute our game plan and not turn the ball over and just run good offense, and I feel like we'll be fine.
Q. Zach, what did you guys learn from that first game?  Obviously they're a little different without Gafford this time.  What did you learn from the first game that you maybe can apply to tomorrow?
ZACH McROBERTS: We know they play fast.  They're going to play hard.  They're going to try to turn you over, so that's something we've got to try to be prepared for offensively, defensively, get our transition defense under control and then also not give anything easy through turnovers.
Q. You were working with -- sometimes it was three guards the other night, you're out there with Rob and Devonte.  How did that work, and how did that feel out there in terms of cohesion?
ALJAMI DURHAM: You know, I've got two great guards with me, so I feel like it was just like we were in rhythm, we were in sync, and I feel like it wasn't nothing but like practice I feel like.
Q. For either of you guys, Joe and Jones in particular, they both had a lot of threes this year.  They're also big guards.  Just what kind of challenges does it present in terms of maybe trying to run them off the three-point line but also deal with their size?
ZACH McROBERTS: Yeah, that's something we've been focused on in practice the past couple days, knowing they've got a lot of good three-point shooters, knowing it's going to be like five out motion.  It's going to be tough to guard, but we've been working on it, running guys off the line, being able to move our feet, stay in front, so something we've got to work on, something we've got to be able to do.
Q. These last few days just having already played a game, maybe settling into this tournament a little deeper, has the focus improved?  Are more guys just locked in and ready to play these games now?
ZACH McROBERTS: Yeah, I think focus has been good throughout practice, but especially now we've got one under our belt, I think we know what it's going to take, know how hard we're going to have to play from the jump, and I think guys are ready to go.
Q. Al, you had your career high the other night.  Just in terms of your progress over the course of the season, how do you think you've gotten better?  Where have you looked to get better over the course of the season?
ALJAMI DURHAM: I'm just trying to get better every day in practice and by myself in the gym, so I feel like it's just been a steady grind over time, and it just showed last night when I had my career high.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT