U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 31, 2009
Robin Freeman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Scoring conditions good?  
 ROBIN FREEMAN: They were pretty good today.   
  
  Q. Tell us about the birdies you made.   
 ROBIN FREEMAN: I started on 10, made birdie on 11 with a driver. Doc, give me a break, man!   
 Anyway, I got up and down out of 11. Next hole, used a driver, sand wedge about 12 feet, made that. The next par 5, what was that, 15, I drove it in the bunker, laid up to 82 yards, and hit a sand wedge in about 2 feet, made that.   
 I guess 18 I birdied, too. I hit a driver in the left rough and 8-ironed it out in the front and made a stupid putt, broke three ways going up there, and, anyway, it was from the front 45 feet, something like that. What else?   
  
  Q. Five?   
 ROBIN FREEMAN: Five was a good drive; a 3-wood short; chipped it up and made a 10-footer. Next hole was a 6-iron; carved it into there about 10 feet, made that for a birdie.   
 I messed up a couple of holes, but I played well most of the day.   
  
  Q. You like your position?   
 ROBIN FREEMAN: Yeah, if somebody doesn't go nuts this afternoon it's going to be okay, I think.   
 But I haven't played well lately in my career over the last, I don't know, 20 years -- no! (Laughter.) It's been a struggle for me lately playing golf, and it was good to get some good play going.   
  
  Q. Can we go back to the wind issue? Can you describe that?   
 ROBIN FREEMAN: The wind came up this morning and it was blowing all day. The problem with it is around some of the holes it varies. Sometimes you think it's blowing one way, and it will switch back the other way. And most of the time it's going the same way, but it's gusty, and it will switch back around when it gets in front of those trees, so it's tricky to figure out most of the time. But, if you're hitting it solid, the wind is not going to affect it very much. I was playing solid and that was the key for me.   
  
  Q. When did you turn 50?   
 ROBIN FREEMAN: May 7th.   
  
  Q. Q school this fall?   
 ROBIN FREEMAN: Yeah, if I have to go to Q school this fall, I will.   
  
  Q. Is this a rebirth?   
 ROBIN FREEMAN: Definitely a rebirth.   
 Over the last couple of years I had a couple of injuries, things everybody has gone through I've gone through, and I'm looking forward to having a fresh start and hopefully this week will get me going.   
  
  Q. Has it been what you expected?   
 ROBIN FREEMAN: You mean as far as what?   
  
  Q. Being on the road --  
 ROBIN FREEMAN: The Championship?   
  
  Q. The Championship, being on the road.   
 ROBIN FREEMAN: I'm a lot younger than the guys I'm playing with now. Most of the kids have been kicking my butt on the Nationwide Tour; I feel like a rookie.   
 But as far as what I expected, the people here are terrific, they support this event very well, and I'm looking forward to having a good weekend.   
  
  Q. Does it seem possible that you're 50?   
 ROBIN FREEMAN: No, it doesn't.   
  
  Q. How did that happen?   
 ROBIN FREEMAN: You know, in the 80s you do all this funny stuff. I don't feel 50 at all, physically I feel like I'm about 30 again, so is it a rebirth for me? Yeah. I'm looking forward to playing over-50 golf.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 ROBIN FREEMAN: Wrist, shoulder, head, I think you could put head first on that list. I had a wrist injury where I had to take a lot of time off and then a shoulder surgery after that. It's the normal stuff, everybody out here can tell you about an injury or two.   
  
  Q. You look trimmer, have you lost a lot of weight?   
 ROBIN FREEMAN: Yeah, I have. About three years ago I decided to get fit and I've been working hard at it over the last three, three and a half years, so I'm about 25 pounds lighter than I was. I feel physically very, very good.   
  
  Q. Was that in anticipation of the Senior Tour or just lifestyle?   
 ROBIN FREEMAN: No, just a lifestyle change for me. I was tired of being overweight and tired.   
  
  Q. What are your impressions of the course?   
 ROBIN FREEMAN: The course is great. You have to hit every shot out here. You have to be able to work it left to right, right to left, high, low. You basically have to do everything well here to get around this course. You've got to make proper club selections from the tee, too, because there is a lot of doglegs, so you've got to be careful of your club selections off the tease on a few holes.   
 It's a great course, makes you think, makes you play all kinds of different shots, and, obviously, the best ball strikers and guys making putts -- I putted really well today especially, so hopefully we can keep that up over the weekend.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 ROBIN FREEMAN: No.   
  
  Q. Talk about the ball strikers. The greens are challenging, which aspect of the game do you think on this course this weekend has been the most important? Because guys have missed a lot of putts out on the course.   
 ROBIN FREEMAN: With the greens the way they are, that's one of the advantages of good ball strikers. They can keep the ball in a certain position on the green to where they'll have better putts.   
 Most of the greens from 9 through 18 are very rolly and moundy and got a lot of movement to it, so no matter how you strike it, the ball can go crazy. But the guys striking it well are going to have better putts than guys who aren't.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT