ING NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
November 6, 2005
Paul Tergat
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PAUL TERGAT:  I don't know what to say.  (Smiling). 
 
Q.  Take us through the last few hundred meters.  When did you realize you had the race?
 
PAUL TERGAT:  I think one thing is that the weather was incredible, very hot, but I was trying to keep cool because I had been working extremely very hard for this race.  But the least thing that I was expecting is that we were going to have to sprint to finish. 
 
Q.  That's the last thing you expected?
 
PAUL TERGAT:  Yes, but 24 miles, coming to 25, I knew 25 I knew it was going to be a big battle.  It was going to be a very big -- at one stage, I was very afraid to move very hard because Meb was there, Ramaala was there, so I decided that I push, but conservative, because it was very important for me to win this race.  
 
Q.  What do you think when Ramaala made the big sprint on First Avenue coming off the bridge?
 
PAUL TERGAT:  From the beginning, I just want to run my own race.  I didn't want to run the race or anybody's race.  So I knew it was between 18 miles, 17, 18 miles, and I knew that there was still a long way to go.  Based on what I had seen from the elevation of the course, I knew it was going to be very difficult at the end with the hills and all that.  So I decided just to push, to follow and to push, but not to kill myself because I knew there was a lot of work that was there.  
 
Q.  Was the last 100 meters painful?
 
PAUL TERGAT:  I'm still -- it was really, really painful.  We work until the last minute.  It reminds me of the Olympics again, but I was not expecting that in a marathon, that sprint.  But I knew Ramaala, he's a good runner, he's a finisher, so I didn't want to take any chances.  When it was the last 100 meters, there was a hill, a small hill there, so I knew immediately, you get to the finish line -- as soon as you finish the hill, the finish line was there, so I was very cautious every step, but I felt very good toward the course and toward the race.  
 
Q.  In the final 20 meters, were you ever behind for part of that time?
 
PAUL TERGAT:  Yes, I think also -- that was the time I had to give all that I had, because it was a matter of I was going to win.  So the finish, it was very hard.  
 
Q.  At the end, was there any doubt in your mind that you had won?  Did you know you had won?
 
PAUL TERGAT:  Yes, I think I knew because when I got the tape, I knew I had it.  
 
Q.  You came in second many times in your career, in the last 100 meters, is there any that you can think, you see in your mind other moments?
 
PAUL TERGAT:  As I said, again, I have been working so hard for this competition and I tried to put everything that I wanted, in terms of speed walking in, terms of hill walking in, terms of the miles that I needed.  So I knew I was good in the last stages, so whichever way it was going to be, we were going to fight very hard.  As you say, I finished maybe second quite a number of times but I think we are changing slowly.  So I think this is something now.  (Smiling). 
 
PAUL TERGAT:  Honestly what happened is that I usually don't like reflecting the past competitions.  I think what I have at hand always.  So it's very important that I learn from the past experiences and be able to look forward to the future.  
 
Q.  After your last two, three disappointments in a marathon, were you still hoping to win?
 
PAUL TERGAT:  The one thing that I know from the Olympics and London, I had problems, so the only thing that I knew, it's very difficult when you experience maybe you have a problem, you didn't perform and all of that.  But deep in my heart I knew what happened, so the only things I know the course well and be in good health, and that's what happened.  
 
Q.  What kind of problems?
 
PAUL TERGAT:  I had in the Olympics, I took a very cold water and I'm not used to cold water.  It gave me a very strong stomach cramp. In London, between about 18 miles, I caught a hamstring problem and I couldn't push.  I just wanted to finish the race.  
 
Q.  Can you describe just that feeling, it's so close and such a sprint, when you break the tape, the feeling?
 
PAUL TERGAT:  The feeling was so exciting.  I mean, I was excited.  At last to be able to take home, the last second the tape, that was the feeling that I had.  As I say, New York was the key thing to me, winning here for me, it gives me a lot of motivation again to be able to be a runner.  I'm now focused again.  
 
Q.  Can you comment on New York versus the speed courses like Berlin and London?
 
PAUL TERGAT:  This is a very different course, very hard course.  You cannot compare it with London or Berlin.  Those are more of fast courses. So one thing, it's very, very difficult to run 2:06 here, very, very difficult.  
 
Q.  Do you prefer an event that is really set up more for the competition than for the time?
 
PAUL TERGAT:  The most important thing is that when I came, when I was preparing for New York, I knew it was not going to be 2:06 or 2:05 race.  So it was a question of to tackle the course of New York and of course, maybe to crown it with a win.  So what I would say, this is a very difficult course, that's all.  
 
Q.  Were you closer in Berlin two years ago?  Was it closer at the end, the finish?
 
PAUL TERGAT:  As you come towards the end, you just come from a small hill, and there, the finish is there.  So it's better to slightly see better the finish line, so when you are engaging, fighting, sprinter -- but this one is very close, you don't see the finish until you come up from the hill, and then the finish is there. 
 
Q.  You've had so many great victories and so many different events in your career, how does this compare to some of the other great victories?
 
PAUL TERGAT:  New York is one of the greatest races in the world has at the moment.  Winning it is very special to me.  I won't say that out of so many victories I've won, I think this is very special.  
 
Q.  Did you watch the attempt of your world record in Amsterdam and were you afraid of losing it?
 
PAUL TERGAT:  One thing that was very evident is that when a record is set, it's always possible to be broken.  So for me, I knew that Haile had the potential and he was ready and he going for it.   I was wishing him all the best.  But again, I know because I ran that time, the 2:04, I think it was a big challenge for him.  So many things has to be right in terms of weather, in terms of pace-making.  It's very difficult, very difficult.  But I think the best -- well, I was afraid myself.  It's difficult for a lot of people so, it's like that. You win today, you prepare for today and tomorrow, that's competition.  That's the sport.  
 
Q.  What will be next, London?
 
PAUL TERGAT:  I'm looking forward, it's still early, but it's London.  I always have my program in advance, so whatever I do in terms of my preparation, in terms of -- it's good that you know where you'll be in advance so, that gives you an edge.  You prepare psychologically and so at least when you are traveling or training, you know that the main goal will be where.  So it's still a long way, but I'll be in London if all goes well.  
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT