AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: TIGERS v ATHLETICS
October 11, 2006
Carlos Guillen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  How many times during the season will you take balls at first base during batting practice, and what are the things about that position that impress you when you do have to play it? 
 CARLOS GUILLEN:  You know, I'm not surprised, and it's not going to be the first time I'm going to play first base in the game.  I played a little bit during winter ball, I played a little bit in the World Cup Series, and this year I played a couple games over there.  I feel comfortable. 

 Q.  How is it different than shortstop?  Is it angles, or how would you describe sort of the challenges that you face over there? 
 CARLOS GUILLEN:  Of course it's the angles.  You know, it's important to be on time on the base when the hitter hits a ground ball somewhere in the infield.  To me it's easy.  I don't feel it's too hard.  Shortstop is hard.  When you play shortstop you can play everywhere. 

 Q.  The ball that Kendall hit to you last night, a lot of side spin.  Do you want to talk about that a little bit, explain what happened? 
 CARLOS GUILLEN:  Well, we're not used to those balls.  It's pretty tough, having the spin, trying to catch with two hands.  I knew I was going to be in trouble as soon as he hit it because the ball was moving everywhere.  Unfortunately, I didn't make the play, but we turned a double play. 

 Q.  Yesterday your manager, Jim Leyland, said that of all the players in the clubhouse, he thought that you would go on possibly to be a manager in the big leagues.  That's quite a bit down the line, but do you have any thoughts about staying in the game after playing as a coach or manager? 
 CARLOS GUILLEN:  I think it's too early (laughter).  Yeah, I love this game.  I like to be in the ballpark.  When I'm not playing I go to the ballpark and watch the games.  Every day you learn something in this game. 
 I like it; it's my job, and that's the only thing I know how to do right now. 

 Q.  When were you sold on how good this team is?  Was it coming out of the spring?  Was it when you guys had that good start?  Do you remember a time when you thought we're the real thing, this is not just a passing thing? 
 CARLOS GUILLEN:  You know, it's funny, but the first time I come here when they trade me from Seattle, I knew we were going to have a good team.  We've got pretty good, young players, good pitching, good guys with good arms.  And the front office, they want to make a good team. 
 The difference is there's not too many players who want to come and play in Detroit.  Now they know we are a pretty good team, good players, good fans, everybody is good.  I feel comfortable, and this year will make a big difference. 
 Zumaya, our pitching staff, all those guys, they've got more experience.  They've got more experience and they're still young; they're still learning.  The attitude in the clubhouse, they're figuring out how to win ballgames. 

 Q.  What do you think of Marco Scutaro as a ball player?  And did you know him in Venezuela?  Did you think he would become as productive player as he has? 
 CARLOS GUILLEN:  Yeah, he's a good player.  We played together in winter ball.  Last year we played together in the winter ball; we played for the same team.  He's a really good player.  He can play anywhere in the infield; he can hit.  If they give him a chance to play anything, one thing is he's going to do a good job. 

 Q.  Last night you guys showed a lot of patience at the plate, and during the season you guys weren't always the most patient team as far as pitch selection.  How important is it to stay patient at the plate in this series? 
 CARLOS GUILLEN:  You know, we don't want to try to put pressure on ourselves.  We're trying to play the same way we've been playing the whole year.  Everybody has to have a nice at-bat; that's the key.  Trying to put the ball in play, that's the difference, the pitching. 
 A lot of things can happen when you put the ball in play.  Over there, looking for a good pitch to hit, wait to hit it. 

 Q.  Can you give us your impressions of the relationship between the Tigers and the city of Detroit and what this year has been like for just the city all around you? 
 CARLOS GUILLEN:  Well, I knew we got pretty good fans.  Detroit is a sports city.  We've got basketball, the Pistons, Red Wings, Lions, and now we've got the Detroit Tigers.  It's exciting, they're pretty good fans, and I like it. 

 Q.  If I could ask what it was like when you first got there and how it has changed? 
 CARLOS GUILLEN:  Well, the last three years they've been doing a pretty good job.  They've been great fans.  This is what they've been waiting for for a long time, 20 years to go to the playoffs, and this is a famous team to me. 
 Back in the '80s they win the World Series, and right now they expect this kind of moment.  They enjoy it. 

 Q.  You lost five games to end the regular season, three of those coming against Kansas City, now four consecutive victories against the Yankees and obviously Oakland.  How did this thing turn around, particularly against competition this good? 
 CARLOS GUILLEN:  It turned around when the season started to me.  We created the attitude in the clubhouse.  We know we lose against the Kansas City Royals the last three games.  But to me, it was one of the hardest things, the second half.  They played good.  We played good ball against Kansas City.  They hit better maybe, or we hit -- that's part of the game. 
 You're not going to win every game.  I was happy to -- we lost those games, but we lost on the field.  We played hard nine innings every day.  We lost the last one, I think, in extra innings. 
 It was good attitude after the game.  We know we can do this.  We've got to believe in our team and our teammates.  We've got to believe we can win this thing. 
 FastScripts by ASAP Sports... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT