STATE FARM MISSOURI VALLEY CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 5, 2020
Bryan Mullins
Ronnie Suggs
Barret Benson
Eric McGill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: We have the Southern Illinois Salukis. They are the 5th seed. They'll play the No. 4 seed Bradley Braves at 2:30 on Friday. Eric McGill, Barret Benson, and Ronnie Suggs, Jr. represent the student body. The head coach is Bryan Mullins.   
BRYAN MULLINS: We're excited for our game tomorrow. We have a tough opponent in Bradley. We played them tough both times. I think these guys are really looking forward to this weekend. Right now, it's about us being us and playing the right way. We know that Bradley is going to be ready to go. With our three seniors, they've done a great job of leadership and communicating this whole season. I'm excited to coach these guys tomorrow.   
 Q.  Can you just talk about what it's like to be here? Do you feel like you've put the three-game skid to end the year behind you and taken this as a new season?  
THE MODERATOR: Eric, we'll start with you, and Barret and Ronnie finish up.   
ERIC MCGILL: I feel like we had a lot of great preparation the last couple of practices to where we can get past those last three games and be ready for this weekend.   
BARRET BENSON: I agree with Eric. Definitely excited for this. You get in the arena and get that conference tournament feel. The excitement is there, and like he said, it's a new season. All the guys are ready and are going to do what we have to do.   
RONNIE SUGGS JR.: Agree with what they said. We have a next game mentality. It's a new game, new season, and I'll be ready to go.   
 Q.  Coach Mullins, what do you plan to do differently as a team heading into the third game against Bradley this year?  
BRYAN MULLINS: We played two good halves against Bradley. The first game we played a good first half, and the second game we played a good second half. Our challenge is to play 40 minutes against them. We've got to play the right way, we've got the value the ball, we've got to rebound and get back in transition defense. We can't play only 20 minutes and expect to be successful tomorrow.   
 Q.  Barret, you know, obviously, their size, big matchup for you. Just how much responsibility do you take? You've got to either win that matchup or match their numbers, so to speak, on Friday night.  
BARRET BENSON: I mean, I approach every game the same way regardless of who we're playing. So I'm just going to go as hard as I can for as long as I can and attack the game whatever way I can and help our team get a win.   
 Q.  Bradley typically crashes the boards pretty hard, as you guys know. How well do you have to rebound as a team to be effective on Friday?  
ERIC MCGILL: Just being able to be physical and just being able to mentally just be prepared to block out everyone and just having guards to come down and crash and help us with the rebounds will be huge for us.   
 Q.  Ronnie, I apologize if this has already been asked. Coming back to St. Louis for the last time for you, how special is this, obviously, as it all kind of comes together playing against your former team?  
RONNIE SUGGS JR.: Yeah, it's definitely special. It's always special to play in front of my hometown. I love St. Louis so much, and to be able to play against my own team, it's going to be very competitive, but I'm excited for it.   
THE MODERATOR: Gentlemen, thank you very much for your attendance. Best of luck.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT