THE 148TH OPEN
July 19, 2019
Dimitrios Papadatos
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Much better today?
DIMITRIOS PAPADATOS: Yeah, just a little bit.  Yeah, obviously the conditions were a little bit better.  I played a little bit better, I suppose.  It was pretty bad yesterday, where it didn't feel that bad.  But obviously that's the learning point of the majors.  The tucked pins and tricky conditions wear you out pretty quickly.  And before you know it you shoot 83 or whatever it is.
Q. What has been the difference between you yesterday and you today?
DIMITRIOS PAPADATOS: I don't think it was that much.  We obviously spoke to my caddie, and he's pointed out a few things today and we're just going to try to be a bit more disciplined.  There's so many pins out there that you just can't be short-sided.  It's not even a matter of getting up and down.  I made a few double bogeys from being pin-high greenside.
Today I obviously wanted to shoot a good score but you still have to hit away from pins otherwise you're going to get beaten up really quickly.
Q. Do you fight the temptation?
DIMITRIOS PAPADATOS: Yeah, it's really hard.  I wasn't playing for anything today, just a bit of pride.  And I was trying to keep away from those pins and give myself longer birdie putts, but not too much damage.
Q. What do you make of the overall experience of playing in something like this?
DIMITRIOS PAPADATOS: Yeah, it was unbelievable.  So good, the atmosphere, and the crowds.  And obviously the course.  And being up against -- just even being around the likes of Tiger and Jason Day.  It was an unbelievable experience.  I'm pretty happy.
Q. What did you learn about the way you played?
DIMITRIOS PAPADATOS: I've got a lot of work to do, definitely.  So it's obviously a big step up playing majors.  It's good to see where your game is at.  I'm not disappointed where my game is at but it's definitely made me realise I've got a lot of work to do.
And there's all aspects of my game -- I didn't come here thinking I was going to kill it.  I knew I've come off a bunch of missed cuts as it is.  So it wasn't like I was in fine form or anything like that, but definitely made me realise I've got to keep sharpening up pretty much all aspects, to be honest.
I played with Jason Day on Monday and I've played with him before.  He was nice enough to have a practice round with me.  And just seeing how pure he hits every shot.  You can hit good iron shots here but if you don't strike it perfectly with the right flight and enough spin on the ball to stop it.
Q. Flight is the key, isn't it?
DIMITRIOS PAPADATOS: Yeah, but you have to get the strike for it to stop.  If you're hitting a 9-iron or 8-iron, and you don't quite catch it, it bounces and rolls off the green.  You have to hit it pretty good.
And obviously the short game is quite tricky around here, which I don't think for me is too bad.  But definitely the ball-striking and I putted -- I'm usually not too bad at putting, but I putted terribly this week.  I need to sort that out.
Everything was just okay, but the conditions were favoring this morning.
Q. Are you proud of the way you fought back today?
DIMITRIOS PAPADATOS: Yeah, I was sort of just trying to end the fight to not finish last today.  I was happy to just have a good score today and just know that even today obviously I felt like I could have been a handful better.  It's nice to know that I could put a decent score on if I brought my A game.  But the B and C game this week wasn't too good.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT