BELGIAN KNOCKOUT
May 18, 2018
Dimitrios Papadatos
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Your performance last week, do you feel it's a continuation in your play this week?  
DIMITRIOS PAPADATOS: Yeah, last week gave me a lot of confidence coming into this week.  Obviously feel like I belong here a lot more after last week, and yeah, my game feels pretty good at the moment.  My ball-striking's not great but I'm scrambling pretty well and my short game's really good at the moment, so sort of kept the scorecard tidy.   
 Q.  The golf courses this week and last week are very different.  Does that show how strong your game is at the moment, that you can adjust to this golf course?  
DIMITRIOS PAPADATOS: Yeah, possibly.  I got here and seemed to like the course, even in the practise round, it's quite tight.  I hit quite a lot of drivers.  I was driving it pretty well, and the greens are actually the same as last week, a bit of poa in them.   
So that was nice to come here and see that.   
 Q.  Do you feel this golf course, is different to the ones you play week-in and week-out, and do you like that little change, seeing a tree-lined course, rather than a bomber's course?  
DIMITRIOS PAPADATOS: Yeah, it's different, and it's demanding off the tee, so it's definitely going to favour the guys that are hitting it straight.   
Yeah, compared to the courses that I'm used to playing back in Oz are a bit more wide open.  This is very tricky with the wind.  I've never played a course where the wind swirls around so much and you're sort of left scratching your head sometimes.  You hit one straight at the pin and it lands 20 metres short, but I think it's the same for everyone, so it's all right.   
 Q.  Starting off yesterday, was it your mind to get into the top 16 and are you aware of how positive it can be a seed going into the Knockout Stage?  
DIMITRIOS PAPADATOS: I'm not aware of it at all to be honest.  I just saw you go out there, top 64, I don't know how they do the draw to be honest.  I thought I was playing all right, so thought I might as well get on with it.   
 Q.  Obviously different format, are you looking forward to that, something different on the weekend?  
DIMITRIOS PAPADATOS: Yeah, definitely.  It's very exciting.  It's going to be interesting playing, it's called the match medal, stroke play against one guy.  It's going to be very interesting and pretty exciting.  I think I'm going to look forward to it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT