NBA DRAFT
June 28, 2007
Gabe Pruitt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Gabe, did you have any idea about the Celtics looking at you? 
 GABE PRUITT:  No idea.  I just found out a couple minutes ago that Boston was looking at me.  So it was a little surprise to me. 

 Q.  So they had had no contact with you? 
 GABE PRUITT:  No contact, no. 

 Q.  You're getting an opportunity to play with both Paul Pierce and now Ray Allen, can you tell me what you think about getting knowledge from these two All-Stars? 
 GABE PRUITT:  I think it will be a good learning process for me.  Paul Pierce is a West Coast guy so I see him a lot in L.A.  Ray Allen I watched a lot growing up. 
 So for me to pick up from those two guys and learning from them, I think that will help me out a lot. 

 Q.  Obviously you came from southern California, very popular basketball place, but Boston is a very rabid basketball fan base; are you ready to deal with that? 
 GABE PRUITT:  I am.  I'm ready to deal with any environment.  It will be new to come to the East Coast and play for a team, but this is my life now and I have to make it happen. 

 Q.  With all of the trades that are going to go on today, do you feel like there's maybe more pressure for you now; that this is going to be a team that's expected to make the playoffs next year? 
 GABE PRUITT:  Maybe.  With the trade with Ray Allen and we have Paul Pierce now and the guys they have on their team, you know, it could be possible.  But you know, I do good with pressure and I just have to work that much harder to make this team better. 

 Q.  Were you in any way, shape or form promised or given any kind of indication that you probably were going to be a first-round pick from somebody?  Because we had heard that; did you hear that? 
 GABE PRUITT:  Yeah, coming up to this day, Detroit, that was a team I thought I was going to at 27.  I thought I was going to go there but things didn't work out, something happened and they took my good friend Arron. 
 After that I was pretty much -- I didn't know exactly what was going on, so I was just sitting here waiting patiently. 

 Q.  Now that you've been through the process and here at draft night, take me through how you're feeling and now that this is all said and done, you're heading to Boston? 
 GABE PRUITT:  It's a big relief that I've been selected now.  It's a long waiting process.  Just going through this was new to me and my family and going through this whole process, learned a lot of new things and met a lot of great people.  I don't regret any of it. 

 Q.  You mentioned Paul Pierce before; do you actually know him? 
 GABE PRUITT:  No, I've never spoken with Paul Pierce.  But I've seen him around, played with him a couple of times.  But I don't know him too well.  You know, I'm sure in the next couple of days I'll get to know him very well and meet him and have a couple of talks with him. 

 Q.  Where have you played with him? 
 GABE PRUITT:  UCLA I played there a couple of times with him and also gyms around L.A., the pros come in and play.  But mainly UCLA is where. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT