AL DIVISION SERIES: RAYS VS ASTROS
October 10, 2019
Willy Adames
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  From the experience built from Game 3 and 4 and also the Wild Card in Oakland, can that apply for winner-take-all Game 5 like tonight?  
WILLY ADAMES: Yeah, I'd say that, because we've been playing elimination games for the past three days. We know that we have to do it tonight. If not, we're going home. So I would say that applies tonight.   
 Q.  You did this in Oakland, but how much do you enjoy the winner-take-all games and the atmosphere that a game like this brings?  
WILLY ADAMES: I really enjoy that because this is do or die today. For us, you know, we have already played a couple of games like that. I guess feels comfortable now after those last games. Everybody has that mentality that we have to win, no matter what. We've been feeling more comfortable playing in those situations.   
 Q.  You've been playing the best baseball of your career from September on when they count the most. What is it about this pressure that brings out the best in you?  
WILLY ADAMES: The whole team has been playing great. And I would say that's contagious, you know. When everybody is taking good at-bats it's contagious on the team. Like I say, everybody has been playing great. And for me, that makes me feel good. Everybody tries to step it up, and I guess that's why I've been playing good, because the whole team has been playing like that with the same energy.   
 Q.  I know how important your family is to you. Your mom and dad were there at Tropicana Field for the games there?  
WILLY ADAMES: Of course. They're here, too.   
 Q.  Are they here, too?  
WILLY ADAMES: Yes.   
 Q.  How much did that mean in terms of your performance? I know how much you like to perform in front of them, too, and how much does this help having them here tonight?  
WILLY ADAMES: I play for them and for the fans. For me to have them here, to have them the past two games at Tropicana, it means the world. So for me, I just want to play the best for them, in front of them. It makes me feel good that they're here. It makes me feel special. And try to play the best for them.   
 Q.  Playing up the middle of the infield, what as Eric Sogard brought to the team since he was traded over? He's starting for the first time in a few weeks tonight.  
WILLY ADAMES: He's been around the League a long time. And he knows the situation. He knows how to play the game. He's smart. He's a veteran. So he just try to help us every time. He's always there trying to give us advice. And for us to have him starting the game tonight means a lot. So we're happy that he's in the lineup today and I hope he plays well tonight.   
 Q.  I know you guys always say you try to treat every game like another game. But have you thought about it or has it hit you that you're playing to eliminate the Astros tonight, you're playing to go to New York tomorrow and play the Yankees for a chance to go to the World Series?  
WILLY ADAMES: Yeah, I mean, like I said before, we've been playing elimination games. We played the Wild Card and then the past two games we've been playing elimination games.   
So today, for us to be here today, you know, it means the world. Nobody thought we were coming back to be Houston. We have to do it tonight, we have to be aggressive. We have to take any advantage they give us. And we'll try to go to New York to beat the Yankees there. We have to do it tonight first and then we go to the Yankees.   
 Q.  Is all the pressure on the Astros considering they are the World Series favorites and you guys so many times this year have been counted out by people in this organization?  
WILLY ADAMES: I'd say that, yeah, everybody is counting us out already. They're making the schedule the Yankees and the Astros. So I would say the pressure is on them. Obviously because they went to Tropicana up 2-0. So like I said, nobody thought that we'd come back to Houston, and we're here. I'd say the pressure is on them, for sure.   
 Q.  You've gotten to face Gerrit Cole a few times. What makes him so tough? And how much does the experience of the last playoff game help you tonight?  
WILLY ADAMES: He's got plus stuff, man. Everything he's got is above average. It's really good. But we know that he's going to be tough tonight. He's going to come with the best stuff he got.   
And we faced him last time and it's going to help us today because he was unbelievable last start. We know that he's going to come similar tonight with the same mentality. We have to make some adjustment from the first game here and try to take advantage of him any way we can.   
 Q.  What specifically adjustment-wise are you going to try to make against Gerrit Cole? You, in particular, and then the rest of the Tampa Bay Rays?  
WILLY ADAMES: Just trying to be aggressive on the zone. He throws a lot of strikes. So I would say try to be aggressive early in the count. Try to put the ball in play. Try to get on base. And try to make him work a lot, because last night he was working on us. We weren't making him work. So I'll say just be aggressive with the pitches in the zone.   
 Q.  We know that Tommy Pham is one of the most intense players during the regular season. How would you describe playoff Tommy Pham?  
WILLY ADAMES: You've seen it. You've seen it yourself. He's been killing it. He love the spotlight. So he's really intense. I'd say he's more intense now in the playoffs. He spent like two hours in the cages today hitting, like 2500 swings. So he's a really good player, and he's showing it to the world that he can play ball.   
 Q.  Can you talk to him the day of a game before a playoff game?  
WILLY ADAMES: Yes, of course, he's there for us. He's a great teammate. If you go and ask a question for advice, he's going to give it to you. He's been in the league more time -- he's got more time than us, and he knows what to do in the situation and he's there for us, he's always accountable.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT