WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC POOL ONE: SAN DIEGO
March 15, 2009
Norichika Aoki
Shuichi Murata
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   NORICHIKA AOKI: Well, I was even thinking a single hit or a sacrifice, either one of the two. I was hoping for that, and that's what I was prepared for. But ultimately it turned out to be a hit, and I was -- I'm happy about that. That was the best, and I was able to link it to Marata's hit. 

 Q. (Indiscernible). And Aoki, I thought you played the way you was supposed to play. It was just like you. 
 NORICHIKA AOKI: Well, it was no runs and it was my turn, and somehow I wanted to advance on the base, and ultimately the four ball, and hit or something. I just -- whatever it takes, I have to do. And I was able to make it out in front of the big crowd, and everyone I knew was watching, and I was able to play a good game. 
 Within myself, I knew I had to play a good game, and whatever it may take, and somehow, and Mr. Marata, also. And then he did the good play. So somehow I wanted to link it to Marata's good play. 

 Q. Last time you played at Petco Park. Compared to last time, you were different position compared to the last time. How is it this time? 
 NORICHIKA AOKI: Well, before even I started playing this game, within myself, then I was all tensed up, but I was just calm and I wasn't afraid of the circumstances and the atmosphere. And compared to three years ago, I think I grew up three more years. And I was nicely tensed up, and then that led to the victory today.
 So as an individual, I am happy about that. 

 Q. What are you preparing for next? 
 NORICHIKA AOKI: Well, whatever it takes, we have to win, and then we have to advance to the finals and the -- that's it. 

 Q. Thank you very much. Mr. Marata, talk about the third sacrifice reply. 
 SHUICHI MARATA: We have been lucky, and Mr. Aoki, somehow I knew he was doing his best, and he wanted to link up for us to score somehow, whatever it takes and I can see that. So I saw that. So I thought either sacrifice fly, whatever it may take. And in Tokyo, the experience we lost, I think actually that worked to our advantage and to our best interest. 

 Q. The question here, now Cuba, very strong team, and how did you prepare? 
 SHUICHI MARATA: Well, for a long time, I knew without changing any style, if the runner is there, then they return the runner. And if there is no runner there, that will connect to scoring. And Mr. Aoki was aiming at it, and then there was a runner on first, and it was nicely done. His run wasn't all that speedy. Nevertheless the condition was very good, and I am satisfied about how we played today. 

 Q. One more game you wanted in the last inning or the 9th inning. 
 NORICHIKA AOKI: Well, of course, the early part, we score the three runs in. And if we didn't have it that way, we may have had a different result. So whatever it takes, we all did, so I just wanted to do the best. 

 Q. What about (indiscernible)?
 NORICHIKA AOKI: Whatever it may take, we have to do. And then we have to advance to the finals, and then after finals, we think about the next. 

 Q. Thank you very much Mr. Aoki and Mr. Marata, thank you very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT