ROLAND GARROS
June 3, 2019
Aliona Bolsova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. ANISIMOVA/A. Bolsova
6-3, 6-0
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.
Q. You seem to be in a good mood.  How do you sum up your whole experience here at Roland Garros?
ALIONA BOLSOVA: I mean, it's been amazing two weeks.  I did not expect to be here when I just got here.  It was two weeks ago.
And I just wanted to leave my first Roland Garros as a professional, to try to go through the quallies and, suddenly, I'm playing the fourth round here.  I won six matches.  I played seven.
Today was not my best today, and she played unbelievable.  But still, I mean, if I'm sad, I'm not being fair with myself.  I just did so many good things, so I need to stick to that.
Q. What for you was the key today going into the match?  What were you hoping to do today and why do you think it went the way it did?
ALIONA BOLSOVA: Yeah, I mean, I just wanted to enjoy the moment.  It's just amazing to be in the fourth round for me.  It's something I'm not used to, to playing in central courts against top players.  I mean, I barely played, like, four, five top 100 players in my whole life this year.
So she just showed amazing tennis all match, and it was so hard to follow with her level today.  And I was little tired after all my matches.  So I think all the important moments and throughout all the match, she didn't give me many chances.  So I was not there to take the few I had.
And she played great, so congrats to her.
Q. Could I ask you to explain a little bit about what she does well or what about her game is impressive or strong?
ALIONA BOLSOVA: I mean, she's a very aggressive player, and she takes the ball very early.  She does not give you a lot of time to be in the point.  You need to be very fast, very reactive to her shots.  And she did that pretty well today, so yeah.
Q. How does this run change your -- does it change your goals or expectations for the rest of this season?
ALIONA BOLSOVA: Not really.  My goals are still to try to be a professional tennis player.  Because it's my first year actually I did a preseason, that I'm, like, starting to do a full calendar.  So I'm just learning to be a professional tennis player every day of the year.  And I just want to keep improving myself and everything else will come.
I mean, yeah, when the year started, I was hoping to be top 100.  Next week I'm going to be.  So I just want to keep there, be there, maintain myself in the top 100 now.  But even if I go backwards a little bit, I have showed this few weeks that I have the level.
So I just need to believe in myself and keep working very hard.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT