CONNECTICUT OPEN
August 24, 2017
Dominika Cibulkova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
D. CIBULKOVA/A. Pavlyuchenkova   
7-5, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Behind 3-1, 4-2 in the first set, the way you battled back, got to be feeling pretty good.  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, that's true.  She started with a strong game, and I couldn't find my response.  I mean, I was ready for the way she's going to play.  I knew she's going to play like this.  But I just couldn't help myself, couldn't really do the things I wanted.   
And then I was just fighting.  It was just a pure fight until 6-5.  Then what happened, the break actually helped me because I, you know, also talked to my coach.  I came back on the court, I was completely different personality on the court.   
 Q.  Like two different sets.  The second set you dominated her.  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yes, exactly.   
 Q.  The game with 16 points, five deuces, that was like a defining moment in the match.  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: The game to go up on 6-5?   
 Q.  Yes.  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: I remember that game, but still I wasn't feeling good playing-wise on the court.  I knew this is not the way I going to win the match.  I was just fighting, fighting, trying to find my rhythm, trying to turn the match around.   
As I said, actually the break really helped me.  I thought about it again.  I knew this is not the way I have to play.  There is only way I can play:  to be aggressive and go against her strong balls.  That's what I did later.   
 Q.  The break, did it allow you to think about your next steps for the match?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, yeah, that's what I'm saying.  The break was, like, Okay, it's 15-All on her serve.  The only chance how to play better today is to go against her strong balls, you know, just to hit it 100%.  I wasn't hitting the ball 100%, and when I give her the advantage, I give her time.  She was just kind of killing me on the court.   
So she had time for the balls, she was playing with me.  I knew this is not the way how I can beat her.  So then I came back and I knew I have to be more aggressive, and I have to be the first one to play, to play strong, to play fast.   
 Q.  Once you're up 5-Love in the second, did you mentally let down a little or did she pick her level up again?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: No, that's why I was still so calm.  Even though it was 5-4, I didn't do any mistake.  I was playing really well.  I was going for my shots.  It wasn't, like, I got nervous or something.  It wasn't this way.  You know, I was still going for it.   
But this is how it is.  I know Anastasia.  When she's down, she's going for it more, even 100%.  Either it's in or it's out.  She managed so many balls to put in.  She gave me these aces on the match points, four match points, four aces.  So it's not easy.   
But I was still there.  I knew I'm playing well.  It's just four balls has to come together for me in one game, and that's what it did in the end.   
 Q.  Is a breakthrough like you had at the end of the first set really good for you going forward because it's a reminder that you have to play a certain way?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: I don't understand.  What do you mean?   
 Q.  Can a win like today be really good for you going forward?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Of course, yes, it is.  Of course, it is.  After longer time I played my game, my aggressive game against aggressive player.  I was able to level up my game.  During the match, I played even better and better.  This is what I'm looking for.  This is what I need for my confidence.   
So this was really another great match for me, that I finished.   
 Q.  What is your mindset going into the semifinal against an opponent you haven't played?  How would you prepare for her?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: First of all, I can't underestimate her because she has really good season.  Yeah, it's somebody I never saw playing better, and I never played before.  So is always difficult.   
But that makes me more to focus on my game and what should I do.  Of course, I going to watch some of her matches tonight.  We going to talk about the tactic with my coach.   
But I think the most important thing will be that I have to be focused on my game and what I have to do on the court.   
 Q.  Is a day like today the reason you come to New Haven?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah.   
 Q.  To kind of collect yourself, find yourself and some focus?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Exactly.  I mean, this is exactly what I wanted.  It's happening, so I'm really happy about it.   
I wanted to have more matches before the US Open.  This tournament is always a lot of good girls are playing this tournament.  So the competition is really high.  You get to play these girls that you can play in the third, fourth, quarterfinals.  It's very good preparation for me.   
 Q.  Other than adjusting your mindset, did you do physically anything really well when you turned the match around?  You were hitting crisper shots, deeper shots?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: I was just able to go against her really fast shots.  I was hitting it back, not just, you know, being in the back and just putting it up.  I was playing much more aggressive.  My mindset was much more aggressive.  I was returning really, really well.  Even she hit a first serve, I was going after it.   
It was about my mindset.  I was really aggressive.  I didn't even mind that she's playing a first serve.  I was just going for it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT