INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA
May 14, 2017
Dominika Cibulkova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








An interview with:
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. I just want to know how you are feeling about your play so far and tournaments to come, preparation and your physical form.
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yes.  I had injury in my wrist, so I couldn't really play Fed Cup and Stuttgart, so I start to play really full, like, one or two days before Madrid.  So I was really happy about my first win against Jankovic in Madrid and not so happy about the second round.
But finally, you know, I practiced for a few more days, and we come here already on Wednesday.  So I had a few days to practice.  It's a different conditions from Madrid, but, you know, I'm getting used to it and starting to feel myself on the court much better.
So, you know, I wish I could feel like this longer time before Madrid, but, you know, that's how it is.  I'm just doing 100% to be ready for the clay season.
Q. That tapes on your body, are they serious?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Oh, no.  That's just, you know, because I didn't play on clay for almost three weeks.  And I didn't play -- my first tournament after Miami was Madrid, so I had really tough match against Jankovic, and then I had one or two days off and then I started practicing.
So the body still -- you know, the clay is really hard surface to play on and it's not easy to get used to.  So it's just for recovery.
Q. In the current state of WTA, Serena is missing, Vika is not there, Sharapova is rising again.  How do you evaluate you in the future?  Could you be one name on top 3 or could Roland Garros be your occasion to shine?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: You know, that's something I hope for, and that's something I wish for and do everything, but sometimes, you know, it's just sometimes it's meant to be and sometimes it's not meant to be.
So hopefully Paris it's gonna be a good one for me starting here in Rome.  I haven't played here for two years, and so I was really looking forward to be back here.  So I take all these like preparation before Paris, and, you know, I just want to get used to clay because the clay season is so short, so you don't have much time to get used to it.
Q. How is your coming back here?  You said you had few days before the tournament.  Have you visited the city a little bit?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: No, not really.  I had one day off in Madrid right after I lost.  Then we were traveling here.  We took a really early flight.  I was just resting in hotel the next day, and the day after, on Thursday, we already started to practice twice a day.
So not really time for sightseeing, but I'm happy this year we are staying in hotel in the city.  It's nice that we can have little walks around the city.
Q. How is practicing, these conditions against the weather?  It's hot outside?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, the weather is much hotter than back home or in Madrid where I was last week, but it's okay.  It's still not a big deal compared to, I don't know, Australia or when we play US Open.
So it's still fine, and it's nice to get such nice weather in Europe finally.
Q. I just want to know if you still think about your WTA Finals, your winning it.
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: I mean, if I think about it -- I don't think about it anymore, you know.  Just when I see a picture or when I see the trophy back at home in my apartment, you know, it's nice memory, but the sport is that way that you cannot think about the past.  You just have to be right now and in this moment and to do everything to be ready for the next tournament, next tournament, and even next season.
So in sport, it's like you win one day, you win the finals, and the next day on Monday, somebody really hungry to beat you is waiting for you.
So it's like this, and it's just one of the best memories and great experience.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT