QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 12, 2017
Dominika Cibulkova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You had a great end to last season.  How do you feel now?  You've had the Australian Open.  How do you feel like you're going into the rest the season world No. 5?  Are you confident you can improve on that?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, you know, as I said before, this time of the year has for me always been a little bit strange, you know, because you're after the big tournament, after the Australian Open.  Then there's Indian Wells and Miami just a few weeks ahead.   
I didn't play this tournament for a while.  When I came here, you know, it was mostly after Fed Cup.  I was really, really tired.  This is finally, finally first time, you know, I can have good preparation.  I can hit more.  I can get used to the courts and balls and everything around here.   
I'm really looking forward for my first match.  I'm feeling fine on the court.  Just to get maybe -- well, not maybe.  By winning matches, you get more confidence.  This is what I expect.   
 Q.  Last year you were very consistent.  That was one of the great things you had throughout the season.  Were you able in the off-season to think of how you managed to do that and how you can maintain that this season?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, I managed to do that.  I wasn't thinking to be consistent at all.  I was just really, really focusing on my next match I had ahead.  I wasn't paying attention to results.  Of course, the good results give you confidence.  But I always wanted more last year.  I wasn't satisfied with any results.   
I think all these details and all these things came together, and that's why I had such a great year.   
But there was last year, and now it's a new year.  The time flew really, really fast.  It was just crazy how fast there is a new season.  It's already started.   
I want to be here right now and playing good tennis.   
 Q.  You're world No. 5.  When you're at a tournament now, do you feel that you are really one of the best players in the draw?  Is it important for you maybe to not think about that?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, I mean, of course you have to think about it because this is something I feel.  I'm in a new position, you know.  It's something I have to get used to or to start to see normal because, of course, I'm in the situation for the first time.   
Of course, you feel bigger pressure.  The players just come on the court and they really want to beat you because they have nothing to lose.  Even I was top 20 or even before I was top 10, to be in top five is still different position.   
I'm trying to not panic that this is something new for me.  I'm trying to work on myself every day and get used to it.   
 Q.  Did you watch the Australian Open final, Venus and Serena?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: No, I didn't.  I never watch anything after.  I don't watch any more matches when I lose or win the tournament.  I watched some from the men's, but I had to go practice so I didn't see the end.   
 Q.  What is your reaction in general the fact we did get a Grand Slam final between Venus and Serena after all these years again?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: I didn't really think about it.  I don't know.  I mean, Serena, she's a legend.  I think it was great for her.  She said she had only one goal:  to come there and to win a Grand Slam.  Her confidence is really, really something we all can look up to.   
And Venus, you know, I think she gives hope to - I don't want this to sound bad - but, like, she's older than me, and she still can play finals of a Grand Slam.  That's something I really admire in her.   
 Q.  Do you think you can improve on the world ranking at the moment?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yes, for sure.  Yeah, for sure.  I'm 100% convinced I can improve on the ranking.   
This is the mentality I need to have.  I need to have the mentality I want to improve my ranking.  I can see it go even further.  If I would only want to stick to my ranking, I would be afraid that I don't want to lose the ranking, that's the mentality that would really not help me.   
This is something I'm trying to work on with my coach and with my team.  As I said, this is a new position for me.  I'm trying to work out things well.   
 Q.  Very off topic.  Usually in Doha or Dubai it's Valentine's Day.  When that falls during a tournament, do you ever celebrate with your new husband?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: It's not something that we would -- I don't really -- I mean, this is -- I don't know how to say it.   
This is nothing I would really like, Okay, this is Valentine's Day, so we have to celebrate.  It's not like this for me or my boyfriend either.  We don't have any special celebrations for Valentine's Day.   
I always get some small cute gift, so that's quite good.   
 Q.  You called him your boyfriend.  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Sorry, husband.   
 Q.  You're still not used to it?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: No, sometimes I mix it up (smiling).   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT