BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
January 1, 2017
Dominika Cibulkova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Welcome back.  Wonderful circumstances for you.  Are you on a little bit of a high after Singapore?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, I'm happy it was the last tournament of the year, and I really got used to that I won such a big title.   
It was so many things going on after that, and then I had some time off.  It really helped me to get a new energy and a new motivation.   
So I would say I really had a great preseason for this year.  I was back on track.  And really, these four weeks that I practiced, it really -- it really gives me -- I found it gives me new motivation.  I'm really happy to be here in Brisbane, to start here.   
 Q.  How long did you get to put the racquet down and not just do anything?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: I didn't play for a month, I think for a month, yeah.  But after two weeks I already started with my fitness, physical.  So I didn't play four or five weeks.  But then I had my preseason in Chris Evert Academy in Florida.  So where I go, I think it was our seventh or eighth time in a row, so I really like to do my things the same as I did it before.   
 Q.  What's a win like that do for you?  Obviously tells you your game is pretty good.  What did it tell you, winning that?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Oh, it gives you really a lot of confidence, and, you know, I achieved my best ranking.   
It's something that really puts you on a different level as a player, and it really, as I said, it gives you a lot of amount of confidence.   
 Q.  Does it show you that smaller girls can do the big things?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah.  I mean, I knew it before (smiling).  I had good results even before, but I never had such a great year.  I was never so consistent.   
I won four titles last year, and I was just really enjoying my time on the courts.  They were asking me if I have, how you say, like for a new year, you say --   
 Q.  Resolution?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, resolution.  I don't really have one.  I just want to really enjoying playing tennis and really enjoy to go in front of my fans, and to try to play my best tennis.  This is what I want to do and continue with.   
 Q.  What's the most important thing, as the season starts and you play your first tournament and you're coming off your preseason - we obviously have a Grand Slam right around the corner - so what's the most important thing for you this week?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: For me, this week is to not have big expectation for myself.  Even I practice good, I practice well, for more than three weeks, this is still a first tournament.  You know, I don't want to come in here and to think like, okay, I won the last one.  I want myself to play as good as Singapore.   
We are in different country, you know, different everything.  So I just want to get used to the heat here in Australia, because I just arrive yesterday and it's really, really hot.  I want to get used to have a few nice days of practicing and playing a few matches here.   
 Q.  Did you talk a lot with your mental coach during the offseason?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah.   
 Q.  Kind of talk about the entire year and everything?  What was the big takeaway there?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, of course we did.  We continue with work.  We have new goals with him and with my coach, and of course I'm in a little bit different situations right now.  Last year when I played this tournament, I think I was around 50 or 60 in the world, and it feels different to come to the tournament and when you're No. 5 in the world.   
So this is a new situation for me, and I want to deal with it in a good way and not to see it as a pressure.   
 Q.  How hard is it to overcome the heat?  Good thing to experience it here before Melbourne?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: I think you cannot prepare for such heat.  In Florida it was really humid and hot.  But when you come here with the jet lag and everything, it's so hard.   
You just have to get used to and try to practice and, step by step, to, you know, to get even better and stronger on the court, you know.   
Physically, I'm really well prepared, but this heat is just really hard to play in.  But I think it's really good, because when I played my finals in the Australian Open, it was so hot over there, and we had so many matches to postpone because of the heat.  So this is a good preparation.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT