BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS SINGAPORE
October 25, 2016
Dominika Cibulkova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
M. KEYS/D. Cibulkova   
6-1, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  It's tough to play against Madison I think when she has a day like this when everything clicks.  You still hold on very well and firmly and bravely I think in the second set.  It didn't go your way.  How did you feel out there?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, today was a little bit frustrating on the court because I was feeling good after the match against Kerber.  Today I just couldn't play my tennis.  Couldn't get in the rhythm.  I knew it's going to be like this.  I tried to change it a little bit.   
In the second set I got into the match bit better.  I tried to change my position on the return.  Especially on the second serve I went a little bit more back.  It was better, but it was probably too late.   
So, yeah, it was one of those days where she was playing really good and I was fighting myself on the return.  That's the most important thing, that I just couldn't return her pretty well.  Couldn't read her serve that well.   
Yeah, that was it.  We didn't get into too many rallies, and that's what she wanted.  It was just going her way today.   
 Q.  Was there any kind of hangover from the first opening match in terms of fatigue?  Sometimes the first match, the adrenaline and things like that can kick in and maybe give you an extra 10%.  Was there any flatness today, or it just wasn't there?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: No, not really.  If you would ask me maybe yesterday I would say there could be fatigue.  Today I was feeling pretty good also in the warmup, but couldn't get into the match.   
I tried.  In the second set I tried to change something.  Even my coach came.  He helped me with the strategy a little bit.  Tried to change, but it was still not enough.  Maybe I needed a little bit more time.   
It was too late when I started to get into the match the right way where I wanted.   
 Q.  Can you talk about what a positive it is that considering the circumstances you are still in contention for a semifinal spot?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: What do you mean?  Like if I win -- if I beat --   
 Q.  You could still make the semifinals.  That's what they're telling us.  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yes.  Is it like this?  Yeah, so something that I can see these two losses, you know, so frustrating because of course I lost two matches that I wish I could win.   
It's different than on all the other tournaments.  Maybe on one side it's good because you still have a third chance.  Still I have to see it in a good way.  If I see it in a bad way that I lost two matches then I will be really down.   
It's a big challenge for me.  First time playing here.  As I said, I want to give 100% on the court.  Knowing this, that I can still go into semifinals, so I will -- of course I try to forget -- not forget -- but be as positive as I can and to win my match against Halep.   
 Q.  Going back to playing Keys, obviously she's got a great record against you.  Do you feel that today you actually came probably the closest you've come to getting the...  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: No, no.  There was better match, but still, that was only one set.  It was in Brisbane.  I lost 7-5, 6-2 or something like that.  It was the first tournament of the year; this is the last tournament of the year.  It's a little bit different.   
No, I wouldn't say I was today the closest.  I was just getting into the -- what I wanted to play in the second set.  But, you know, it wasn't the match I want to remember.  (Smiling.)   
 Q.  You've been at the tournament for a little bit of time now.  How different is this tournament compared to a regular tournament as a first timer?  What are some of the things that you're still trying to get used to?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: You know, I cannot say.  It's really different.  I feel like maybe if I get here another year I would feel like, okay, I was here and I had this experience, so I'm happy I'm experiencing this for the first time.   
It is different.  You feel like, Okay this is only 8 top players in the world, and you want to try to play your best tennis.  Of course it's different because you can lose two matches and now the situation I can win the third one and still can go on.   
So it's very new experience for me.  I'm happy to be here and to see and to live it, but I'm hoping to win a match.  I will do every thing to win a match this year.   
 Q.  The ball kid in the beginning, you walked out without the ball kid.  What happened there?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, I was just waving to the people around and forgot.  I didn't see the ball kid.  And then from my box they tell me like, You forgot the ball kid.  I'm like, Oh, my God, no way.  So I went for her bag and I took her bag, so it was nice.   
Okay.  It was fine, yeah.   
 Q.  It was a little bit dark so we couldn't see her reaction.  Was she surprised when you came back for her?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: I think she was happy, but she must have been confused with what I did because she was for sure I will not forget her.   
Then was a funny story when we were at the net.  The guy who did the coin toss, he was pretty funny.  But I will keep it to myself that, fine.   
No, it's okay.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT