U.S. OPEN
August 30, 2018
Dominika Cibulkova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








D. CIBULKOVA/S. Hsieh
7-6, 4-6, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Obviously a tough match, tough conditions.  You managed two three-setters.  How do you feel now about the way you're playing?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, today's match was extreme in all ways.  The weather was so tough, and the opponent was playing really, really good.  I have to say, if I have to say, it was one of the top three toughest matches in my career, I would say, with the conditions and the way we played.
I think the level of tennis we played was really high, and it was just a matter of a few balls who could win that match.  So I'm happy I made it.  When you win such a match, it gives you a lot of confidence because you know you didn't give up.
Yeah, it was really important win for me today.
Q. You'll see Angie next and a tough match.  She's playing great.  Your thoughts looking ahead to that match.
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, we played against each other so many times.  I think the best matches from my side was in 2016, where I was able to beat her.  Yeah, it's gonna be tough one.  Another lefty, so I will do everything now to just to get ready and, you know, to be fit and ready in two days.
Q. How did the conditions out there compare to the conditions against Rus a couple days ago?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, today, I don't know, it just felt like it was really hard to play, you know.  There was no clouds.  You know, the humidity was so high.  I had to change, like, four times my shoes.  Even when we were in the first set, it was 6-All, I just came to the umpire and I said, I cannot play, I have to change my shoes.
So it was just extreme.  To play in this heat for three hours and 20 minutes, it's just really drains you from the energy.
Q. Is she even worse to play in the sun, because she can be so tricky and gives no rhythm?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, she was just getting so many balls back, you know.  Sometimes I felt like I need to finish the point, like, four, five times to really finish it.
You know, it was such a great match.  I will remember this match for a long time.
Q. Can you sort of walk us through what happened in your eyes during your 10-minute break and coming back on to the court.  Were you made aware of the protocol, where you could go, how long it was?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: No, they just told me, Okay, it's 10-minute break, but they don't consider that we walk from Court No. 17, not like when you play on center court and takes you one minute to get to the cooling room, and you can just change and can do everything, you know, in a good time.  But it took me, I think, like more than three minutes walking through the people, because there were so many fans and so many people.
So I think, the rule is just very strange.  I think they should think about it, because it really took me, like, three or four minutes to get on the court.  And then the umpire, she just told me, Okay, it's gonna be Love-30, and I couldn't believe it.
Is it my fault it takes so long to get from where you send me to go to change to the court back?  You know, I think it's just not right.
Q. Do you feel like you had time to cool off?  What were you able to do?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: I just changed.  I changed my dress, changed my shorts.  And then it takes me a little bit longer to change my shoes, because I'm using some, whatever, and so, yeah, that's what I was just able to do.
Then they told me, Okay, it's nine minutes.  You have to go.
I was, like, Okay.
I tied my shoes and went to the court.  She told me I was one minute late.  I'm getting two points' penalty.
You cannot be serious.
Q. Did you have someone giving you warnings?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: No, no, and I didn't even know about this rule.  Now I will remember that.
But, no, just there was a lady with me and she said, Okay, now it's nine minutes.
I said, Okay, I'm just gonna tie my shoes and I'm coming.
That was all about it.  It just took longer to get from the cooling room to my court, because there were so many people.  We were, like, literally waiting for the people to give us some space.
Q. Some other players mentioned that when they take that walk during the heat break, that maybe fans approach them.  Did you have that experience?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: They didn't try to approach me, but they were just in our way.  Of course, they were talking to me, but I wasn't paying attention.  I don't know.  Maybe they were approaching me.
I think it's not right to get two-point penalties because of this.
Q. You were up a break and got broken.  How were you able to focus and win the match?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: I just had to, in few moments, you know, in the third set, I felt, like, I just cannot anymore.  If I would stick to this, I want to be able to win.  So I was, like, Okay, just forget it and just do everything you can, and just one point, one point, one point at a time.  This is what got me through.
Yeah, there were moments where I had really troubles to, you know, go and to play another point, because I couldn't really breathe.  It was really hard.
Q. When you've been at your best, you have been able to win a lot of these matches in a row.  How close do you feel to that 2016 form?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, it was really, really good match.  I would say I wouldn't even play better in 2016.  So this was really tough one, a great match.  I had to earn it to win it.
Yeah, as I said, it was one of the best matches of slams I have played and toughest.
Q. How different of a player are you from then to now, would you say?  What do you think is different that you're able to play even better now in your estimation?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, it was also a bit different because in the third set I just knew, okay, I have to go for it.  I couldn't wish for her mistake because she was not making any mistakes.  I just knew with all the conditions and with the way how I felt, I knew I have to go aggressively for it.
And in the end, I served pretty, pretty well.  The last two serving games, I served the best from the whole match.
Q. Shifting gears, Venus and Serena play tomorrow.  Over the years watching them play, what do you remember and appreciate most about that matchup?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: I wasn't the kind of player who grew up with them, so I don't really know.  They are two great players.  Yeah, it's gonna be interesting match (smiling).






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT