ROGERS CUP
July 27, 2016
Dominika Cibulkova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
E. BOUCHARD/D. Cibulkova   
6-2, 6-0   
An interview with:   
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How important was that second game in the second set when you had all those breakpoints?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: You know, the beginning of the sets were the most important because then it was everything going on.  Like how it started, then the set ended.  It was really important.   
I had my chances today.  I just didn't take them.  Against a player like Eugenie, you know, it's really hard to play after, as you could see.   
She had a better day today, I have to say.   
 Q.  You beat her in a Wimbledon a month ago.  What was different today?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Actually she was playing the game I was supposed to play, but I just made some mistakes in the beginning.  We are all such great players, so very small differences.  When one of us get, you know, confident on the court, then you can see it, as you could see it today.   
It was the other way around in the Wimbledon.  Here it was like this.  Also I felt, like, I mean, all the respect for Eugenie, she played really good, but I felt a little bit today down with my energy.  I'm having a long year, a long season.  It felt like it was really, really hard for me today on the court.   
 Q.  What is it like to try to derail a player who seems to have such momentum?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, it was exactly like that, you know.  But I let her have this momentum with the first games.  I still regret the first game of the match.  I started with four bad shots.  It put me a little bit down, her a little bit up.  These were the small differences today.   
Yeah, you know, today, as you could see, when she was up, she was just everywhere on the court.  I know how it feels because it's the same with me.  When I feel really pumped up and confident on the court, it feels the same.   
Today, you know, she was just playing really, really good.  But it started in the beginning where she was better.  I think the difference was serve and return.  My percentage of the first serve today wasn't really, really good.  She was just pushing me from the return.  I couldn't make such a pressure from the return.  So this is the biggest difference.   
 Q.  How big a part did the crowd play in that?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, no, I'm experienced player, so it wasn't like I was getting angry or something.  I was expecting that.  I played here against Abanda two years ago, so I knew what to expect.   
I know the crowd was on her side.  I was expecting that.   
 Q.  Have you been 100% healthy in the match today?  I had the impression that you had some problems.  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: You know, as I said, she played really, really good, so she earned the win.  But you're right, I'm having little health issues since Stanford and before.  I was supposed to fly from here to Olympic Games, but I'm having the health issues, so I have to fly back home to see my doctor and see what is happening.   
So I hope it will be fine and I will be ready for Olympics, but right now it's not looking good.   
 Q.  Where is home?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Slovakia.   
 Q.  Bratislava?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Bratislava, yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT