MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 7, 2016
Dominika Cibulkova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. HALEP/D. Cibulkova
6-2, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Obviously tough loss today.  Still, overall, what do you take away from this week?  The five matches before that or that it just didn't quite work out today?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, you know, just one hour after the match, so of course I'm a little sad.  I don't want this loss to get into the great feelings of this week.  You know, it was just a great week.
I couldn't -- yeah, I could hope for more, but playing finals here, it's a great experience.  I was playing great as the whole week.
Now I just want to get some rest and prepare for Roland Garros.  Because my game on clay really came together.  I know what to do.  Yeah, today I could just -- I would change few things.  I would play bit more aggressive from the beginning.
But she was playing really well, so wasn't like I played bad feels and I have to feel bad.
Q. What weren't you able to execute on today and how much of that had to do with how well she was playing specifically?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, she is the kind of player that she gets so many balls back.  Today I was playing much better in the second set.  I was much more aggressive, going for the shots, and just not playing a lot of crosses.  I was going down the line, even from her lines.
That's what I should do from the middle of the first set.  I started a little bit too late.  Then I think playing-wise, in the second set I felt like I'm better player on the court.  But she always got these two easy points from my side and I didn't get any easy points from her side.
So that was the difference.
Q. It was a matter of tactics?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, you know, I tried.  I didn't want to rush it too much.  That's what you have to do against these players like Radwanska and Halep.  You cannot rush.  You still have to play aggressive.  It's not easy to get balanced, these two things.
From the beginning I didn't want to get rushed, but then I realized that I'm not playing my tennis.  I have to be much more aggressive because she was just getting every ball back.  When I played one shot, she was just going for it.
Yeah, you know, I could be more aggressive, more changing like when I was running for the ball to play much more down the lines.
But it's easy to say.  Today was not easy to do on the court.
Q. Are you one of the players that can make the decision on your own?  Your coach wanted to come to the court, and then you decided not to call him.
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Oh, no, no.  I don't know about this moment.  He didn't mention it after the match, so I don't think so.  You just maybe misunderstood him.  It was just me calling him on the court.
No, no.  I don't remember this moment on the court today.
Q. What's next for you now for preparation for Roland Garros.  Skipping Rome?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Actually I didn't get into Rome because there was my old ranking, 56 before I won Katowice, so I stayed last out and I withdraw from the quallies.
So I didn't -- I mean, I wouldn't play quallies for sure.  Yeah, I'm going home.  Flying home tomorrow.  I going to take few days off and then to have good preparation for Roland Garros.
Q. You're giving Nuremberg a miss as well?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, it wasn't my plan to play week before Roland Garros.  So, yeah, I couldn't wish -- if you would tell me before the tournament I am going to play finals here, I would take it, yeah.  I should be happy, yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT