MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 6, 2016
Dominika Cibulkova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
D. CIBULKOVA/L. Chirico   
6-1, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  It was a big reaction from you after the win.  What were the emotions of winning that match and getting into this big final?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, you know, of course I'm always more emotional when I win.  Even during the match.  So it's part of me.  But I was really, really happy, because today's match was not easy.  I made it look easy.   
But I was playing just really well.  I was dominating on the court and I was mentally very strong.   
I was just -- you know, it was just really, really good match from my side.   
 Q.  What did you sense from her?  You said you were playing well.  Did you sense that she was nervous at all in the occasion and you took advantage of that?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: I think that because we watched a little bit of her videos last time and I saw some of her results that, you know, we realized that we had some tactic to play against her.   
But today I was playing really aggressive.  I did not let her play her game so she couldn't do much with the forehand.  I was really strong, solid on the backhand.  I was the first one going for the forehand and make her run.   
So that was the most important.  My serve was working really well today and I was just on my forehand all over the court.  That was the most important.   
 Q.  Any better birthday present essentially than making a premier mandatory finals?  Which is your biggest finals after the Aussie Open.  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, it feels great.  As I said before, I was hoping and waiting for something big like this.  It's happening right now, so I'm really happy.  I work really, really hard for this.  You know, it all came together on this tournament.   
I hope it's just next step for what I want to achieve.  You know, it feels great.   
 Q.  How much of a relief is it for you to get this done in straight sets?  In the past few rounds you've gone three sets.  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah.   
 Q.  How much of a relief is it for you?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, today I started the match when I don't count the match against Radwanska.  In the best way I was really aggressive.  I know what I want to play and I was just going for it.  I didn't wait what's going to happen on the court.  That's why.   
I really know the beginning will be really important because she's new in this situation, so I want to take advantage of it, to be ready for it.   
That's what I did perfectly.  You know, even I had some chances today, I was just really, really solid.  I had my plan and I was really doing what I had to do.   
 Q.  Thoughts on both of Stosur and Halep?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, we'll see.  This is the best way.  I know I'm in the finals and the opponent is going to play so I can watch them a little bit.  Either way I don't like to choose opponent.  It's going to ne who is going to be better going to play me in the finals.   
I'm just ready.  I'm playing good tennis and I want to keep going and playing this way.  Doesn't matter who's on the other side.   
 Q.  Was your mental preparation different from other matches this week?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: I had say like I would say the same routine I have before every match.  Today specifically, no.  I talk with my coach and he said like I should do everything to be ready for the beginning to do the tactic what I have to do from the first point.   
If it doesn't go well, it doesn't matter.  I just have to be there and do the things.  The matches I played before I didn't do everything from the beginning, so this was a little bit different today.   
 Q.  How rewarding is this two-sets win for you, your team, and your boyfriend.  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: It's great.  It's great.  I needed a win like this.  When I came off the court my coach told me, Oh, this reminds me of your matches of Australian Open when you went to the finals.  I had four matches like 6-1, 6-0, 6-1, 6-1.  He was like, Okay, good, but other ones wasn't bad.   
I'm not complaining, so...   
 Q.  How different does that center court play when the roof is closed?  Did you notice anything today?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: I was warming up on the center court, so to me it felt okay.  I already played my first match.  Yeah, it's a little bit different because there is no wind, nothing.  It's like indoor clay so can be a little bit faster.  Feels like indoor.  Overall indoor is always little bit faster.  I didn't really pay attention to that today.   
No.   
 Q.  You made the Australian Open final few years ago and it didn't go your way.  Do you feel like there are any lessons drawn from that experience that could help you tomorrow?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: From the finals?   
 Q.  Of the Australian Open.  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Ahh, yes, of course.  It was different when you play a Grand Slam.  This is also a big, great finals it's going to be.  Yeah, I already had experience with the big finals.  Of course it helps because I been in these situations and I know how to prepare, how to feel, and how to just be on the court.  That it's the same than other all the other matches, you know.   
But it always helps, because when I play my first semifinals of Roland Garros in 2009 I was really just walking on the court and I was just happy that I'm in the semifinals.  But when another semifinals came it was different story.  I wanted to go to the finals.   
Hopefully this will be the same.   
 Q.  You obviously said you were looking forward to getting big result on a big stage.  How important was the first round win over Agnieszka in hindsight, because at the last two premier mandatories you had the two tough losses very early on in the tournament.  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, I would say it was really, really important, because if I wouldn't make it then I could be already in Rome.  I knew that I'm playing well, but it doesn't mean -- no, I don't want to say it doesn't mean anything when you just playing well in the practice.  It means something.   
But you have to show it on the court and you just have to beat these good players if I want to get back where I was before.  So it was big win for me, and that's what helped me.  I was 6-0, 3-0 down against Garcia.  So you never know.   
 Q.  You made some comments a couple months ago about Maria Sharapova that were pretty critical.  Just curious if you got any reaction from other players about that or if you're worried about -- because Maria will presumably come back at some point -- her reaction?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: You think she's going to beat me in the locker or what?  No, no reactions.  Nothing.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT