CONNECTICUT OPEN
August 27, 2015
Dominika Cibulkova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 L. SAFAROVA/D. Cibulkova
  6‑7, 6‑4, 7‑5 
  
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
   
 Q. Three‑setters, all really long matches.   
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, it's been long matches. As I said before, that's what I came here, to play matches. I mean, I didn't mind to be so long on the court.   
I won these two matches. And today it was really, really close. But I would say today it was the best match from all these three matches I play here.   
Of course right now I'm a little bit disappointed because I tried my best today. I gave my today's 100%. It just didn't turn out my way.   
But it was a good tournament for me here.   
   
 Q. What was the difference in the end?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: I mean, yes, in the end the difference, Lucie now is having her best year in her career. She's little bit different, better player right now.   
I even felt like I had her in the second set already, but then she pulled out some good serves. That's the difference. It's really, really small details. That's why, she was hanging there all the time.   
Even I don't feel like I did something really, really bad. But she was still there and fighting, fighting. In the end she won.   
But I would say was pretty good‑quality match today of tennis.   
   
 Q. What's made her a little bit better this year? Is she more mature or experienced?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: I don't know. Just what I can say from this match today, even the first time I came to Eastbourne this year, I beat her in two sets. Again, it was really, really close match. We always have such close scores. Today was about a few points.   
In the second set, I was 5‑4 down, 40‑Love on my serve. I lost that game. This is the differences that make I lost the match. Just a few points that I could make better, to be active, something like that, and I could win it.   
   
 Q. What's the toughest part of playing her?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: The toughest part? Maybe that she's a lefty. Her serve. Even her serve, the speed is not that high, sometimes the lefty rotation is hard to return. Even on the second serve, that's where I feel like I get a lot of points with other girls.   
Here, when I hesitate, I don't hit the ball so active, then she opens the court with the lefty rotation. That's sometimes the toughest part to play against her.   
But overall I like to play against her because I keep my rhythm with her and I'm just feeling my rhythm, yeah.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT