AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 28, 2015
Dominika Cibulkova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  S. WILLIAMS/D. Cibulkova  6-2, 6-2  An interview with:  DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   Q.  Tough match.  Your perspective?  DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, it was tough match for me today.  She was just playing really well today, I have to say.  She was putting so much pressure from the serve and return.  I didn't have a chance to play my game.  Just felt under so much pressure.  It was a good day for her.   Q.  What makes her such a tough opponent for you?  DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: It's the way I struggle with reading her serves.  I just don't put many first returns in the game.  That's what makes it tough.  And also then I feel under a bigger pressure on my serve.  That's why I try to go for much more first serve today.  It just didn't go in.  Then my second serve, she was just going for it.  Yeah, that's make it really tough.  She tries to make the rallies much shorter and not to get me in the rhythm.  Yeah, that's it.   Q.  Is that what makes her so dangerous, she's a first-strike player both on serve and return?  DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, of course.  She's world No. 1.  She's a great champion.  When she has this day, it's tough to play against her.  I tried to change something today on return, but it didn't work out well, you know.  Yeah, she just didn't give me any time to breathe on the court today.   Q.  How do you assess the tournament?  DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, no, it's just like one hour after I lost.  Of course I'm disappointed.  I see it very positive.  I was able to show my great tennis here again and I reached the quarterfinals in Melbourne, first Grand Slam of the year, so I'm really, really pleased with the way the tournament went and with the way I played.  I'm really happy to be on a good track again.   Q.  What have you learned from a year ago?  You did very well the first part of the year.  DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, you know, I've been through the times last year, the good times last year and the tough times last year.  Yeah, maybe just do a little bit different schedule.  But now I see it's great that I started the first Grand Slam of the year again so well.  Not reaching the finals, but even playing quarterfinals, it gives me a lot of confidence.  I just want to still make my schedule to be fresh in the second half of the year, to be really pumped for the rest of the season.   Q.  You had a breakthrough Grand Slam at the French Open a few years ago.  Madison Keys is 19 and in the semis.  What advice would you give her?  DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, I was the same age when I reached my first semifinals at Roland Garros, which was 19.  It was very, very special for me.  Now I'm 25; been there a few times.  But, you know, she's a different player than me.  She's tall.  She's serving big, going for the big shots.  She's very dangerous player.  Even now it's tough to play against her.  So, yeah.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT