AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 26, 2015
Dominika Cibulkova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  D. CIBULKOVA/V. Azarenka6-2, 3-6, 6-3An interview with:DOMINIKA CIBULKOVATHE MODERATOR: Questions, please.Q. That was another strong performance from you.  What do you feel like helped you get over the line in that third set?DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, today was extremely, extremely good match from my side.  I would say it was a high level of tennis.  The first set, the way I played, was just really, really -- no mistakes.  I was going for my shots and I was just doing the right things.  I was really putting her under so much pressure.  And then --  then she stepped up in the second set much more.  She started to serve better and return better.  So she kept me out of the -- more behind the baseline.  Then in the third set I just knew I have to go for it more than hundred percent.  I knew I have to be much more aggressive and just stay there and to go for my shots.  So, yeah, today was really, really tough one, but I managed to get through.  It was such a good match.Q. Was that the biggest test you've had so far this tournament?DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, I mean, it's tough to say if this was the biggest test.  But I had all rounds tough matches here, tough opponents.  I'm just playing good, playing my tennis, and today was enough.  But it was really, really close and it was about few points today in third set.Q. We often when people come back after they've won the Australian Open we ask them how hard is it to defend it.  It's probably just as hard for someone who is the runner up.  Do you feel that pressure a bit?DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: I don't know if -- I don't see myself like I have to be in the final.  It's never easy.  Even the big names, the big players, it's not easy to defend something like this.  So I don't think like this.  It's a new year.  It's a new start.  I'm starting the year pretty well again.  So this is how I see it.Q. You made reference in your on-court interview about your height.  Are there advantages to being small?  Justine would probably say a few things.  What are your thoughts on being small?DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, it's a different kind of player.  I don't have a big serve obviously, but working on it all the time.  I don't think it's something that I have weakness there anymore.  But, yeah, I have to compensate my height with something, so I just put a lot of energy in my tennis.  I go for my winners and I'm just not like typical small player that I'm just defensive.  I'm going for it and that's my tennis about.Q. Where did that come from?  Were you the youngest in your family and had to fight for everything?DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: I don't know.  Just energy that I have.  Yeah, that's how I like to play tennis.  That's how I like to be on the court; aggressive and fight for every ball.  That's how I am.Q. Has last year's defeat given you more drive for this year?DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, we had always tough matches against Vika.  The tennis she's playing goes well with my tennis.  But today I would say it was the best match we ever played.  I lost to her a few times before that I was a set up and maybe 5-2 or 5-3 up in the second set and I didn't manage to finish it.  First time I finally beat her it was two years ago at the Roland Garros on clay.  So that give me really a lot of confidence.  Today I was not thinking about the score, I was just going for it.  When I was up I was going for it even more.Q. Do you wish you could always play in Melbourne?DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, you know, it's nice to be here.  But it's not only about the place.  It's also about the timing of the tournament.  You know, the beginning of the year I always feel fresh.  I always feel good from the off-season.  I always work really hard.  Obviously everybody is working really hard in the off-season, but that's what gives me the confidence.  That's how I feel good on the court.Q. Do you think after last season, kind of struggling in the second half, would you be tempted to maybe think about changing your schedule this year?DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, of course there will be something that we going to do for sure.  I started really well again this year.  I'm learning from my mistakes like in the past, and, yeah, I know what to do now.  I don't want to say I know, but I will not try to do the same mistake again.Q. You got a coaching violation in the second set I think.  I haven't seen that for a long time.  Is that one you haven't had for a long time?DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, I haven't had for a long time.  It was kind of funny because from the boxes all of the coaches are screaming or maybe showing something.  I wasn't even looking at my coach.  Sometimes we communicate.  It's normal.  Everybody is communicating with the coach.  But he gave me the warning and I accepted it.  It's okay.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT