THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 10, 2018
Dominika Cibulkova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. OSTAPENKO/D. Cibulkova   
7-5, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How do you feel after that?  You had a couple of opportunities in the first set.  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, exactly what happened.  I have to say she was playing really well today.  She was really playing aggressive.  I felt today on the court I couldn't really bring my game into the match because she was really aggressive on the return.   
Yeah, I could serve better.  My percentage should have been higher.  That was the most important thing today, that she could really put the pressure on my second serve.  It was not easy, not easy on the court to bring my game today.   
 Q.  What is it like when you're playing against a player that's going for it every single shot?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, these are the kind of players that are on the tour, are not easy to play against.  Unfortunately for me today, it was a day for her that the balls were going in.   
Yeah, I tried.  I cannot say, you know, I was playing well today, but it was because she didn't let me just to play what I wanted.  It was working for her and not working for me.  I let her play her game today.   
 Q.  Looking back over the whole tournament, do you think it was made more difficult for you by the fact of the seedings thing?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: I have absolutely no idea what would happen.  This is what happened and I'm really happy with the two weeks, with the 10 days I played here.  I finally played my great tennis again.  Finally it was me fighting on the court, just fighting against the opponent, not against myself.   
These 10 days just brought me so much joy.  Of course, I'm upset with my loss today.  Overall it was just such a great 10 days for me.   
 Q.  Do you think you played today against the person that could win the competition?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Of course, she can.  She made it before.  She can make it again.  She's young.  She's playing with no fear.  These are advantages.   
Yeah, I think on the grass she's playing even better than on the clay.  It might be.  It might be her year.   
 Q.  You served well all week.  Do you feel like you didn't hit your spots, didn't have the velocity, or really a case of not knowing where to serve?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: My serve was really working these couple of days.  That's what made my tennis even better.  Today I felt like I wanted to go for the first serve because I knew that the second serve she will attack and she will go for it, like, full power, 100%.  Maybe that's why I put the pressure on myself that I wanted to serve such a good first serve.   
It was just not there.  I felt like it's just not really -- I don't know what was my percentage during the serve, but I felt like I need to improve it every time.  Yeah, it will be much different if I would serve better the first serve, yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT