BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 13, 2014
Dominika Cibulkova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. LI/D. Cibulkova
  3‑6, 6‑4, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Obviously a pretty good match; very tight till the end.   How are your feelings on it?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   Yeah, you know, yeah, it was a pretty tough match today.   I'm just disappointed a little bit that I didn't win, because I had my chances today.   You know, I was 1‑0 up in my serve and I had some‑‑ two balls or one ball to go for 2‑0. 
Could have been a different story.   And also the breaks I had on 3‑All and 40‑15.   These are chances you get you have to take with such a player, and today I just didn't make it.
So, yeah, it makes me a little sad.

Q.   You were much closer than Australia. 
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   Yeah, I know.

Q.   A silver lining?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   Yeah, yeah, I have to say that finally I won a set. 
But, yeah, I was playing a little different in Australia, and I had, as you can see, much more chances.   She was not going so much into my serve and not putting so much pressure on me. 
But still, I was playing‑‑ I could play my game better, better than Australia and the match before.
So, yeah, it was closer.   But, yeah, I know that I could win today, so that's why I'm not like ‑‑ I could win, yeah.

Q.   You did a good job of continuing success from Australia.   A lot of players have one big result and then fall off.   Obviously Acapulco was great.   Now here, making quarters.   How have you been able to sustain that, do you think?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   Yeah, that's something I'm really proud, proud of myself about, because in the past, you know, I had good results, and after I just couldn't ‑‑I just didn't continue with it, you know. 
And now it seems like I became more consistent player, and that's what I was looking for really long time.
So, yeah, I'm really glad about it.   It was not easy week in Acapulco and was not easy to come here in different conditions, but it was never like one of my favorite tournaments here because it's hard to play different, different with the surface, with the air. 
But it seems like, you know, I'm getting there.   I was feeling even here pretty good on the court.

Q.   Miami is a big tournament for you. 
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   Yeah, yeah, Miami, it's my favorite tournament of the year, so I'm really looking forward there.
For me, the conditions and everything, the court and the balls, suits my game much better.
So hopefully, yeah, now I gonna take few days off, two, three days, gonna move to Miami and slowly start practice.
I'm playing well and feeling good on the court.   That's what I want to do.

Q.   How has your life changed since Australia?   I haven't seen you since then. 
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   My life?   I don't know.   I still have my boyfriend, dog.   I don't know.
It was really crazy.   When I came home after Australia it was too much people, too much like press for me. 
Also with the Fed Cup it was just too crazy.   And after that I took few days off and I just wanted to be focused for other tournaments. 
That's what I did, and that's what really helped me manage my life.   It's nice.   I get ‑‑ I have much more opportunities like I do different things, and many more people knows me more, but it's just something that it's nice, you know.   It didn't change my life.

Q.   What do you mean, too much people?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   Like at home.   You know, I had so many‑‑ when I came home, I had like not only press conference but ‑‑hard to explain.   I don't know how to tell. 
But I didn't stop for like four or five days, you know.   I was like somethingeverybody was inviting me for.   TV or radios, and it just get too much in the end.

Q.   What's the coolest thing you got to do since Australia?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   Oh, I don't know.   The coolest thing.   Nothing special.   Nothing special.   But really cool for me, I thought after Acapulco, after I won the finals, it was the first time in my life like I won such a tournament.   Like, because I never won 220 tournament I always won 600 or bigger tournaments, and I was first seeded and I proved‑‑ like, I played really well there and I won it.
So it was different experience for me.

Q.   You got the big hat, right?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   Yeah, I'm carrying with me.   I'm bringing it home as a souvenir.

Q.   How do you pack that?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   Just carry it in the hand. 

Q.   California, you have been carrying it? 
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   Yeah, it's in the room.   Actually, it's funny, because I have a big team.   I have my father, my boyfriend, my fitness ‑‑tennis coach and my physio, and I have my two doggies here.   So we have so many things to carry, now with a sombrero it's funny.

Q.   You have a tradition.   Every summer you come to California, you win a tennis tournament, and you have a crazy celebration.   I know you're entered in the Bank of the West tournament.   If you win, what will you do there, do you think?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   I don't know about some crazy celebrations.   Last year I didn't do much because I had to continue to play another tournament, you know. 
But, yeah, it would mean a lot because I never win ‑‑I never defend my title.   So there will be another new experience.   But, you know, we will see what's gonna happen.   I still have so many tournaments until that.
So we are looking forward, you know, for it.

Q.   So did you tell your father, you know, you might get arrested next time?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   Yeah, yeah.   He got really ‑‑he got really famous at home for that.   You know, it was all around the news.   It was more about him than about me.
But yeah, yeah, he's very emotional, and that's what I get sometimes on the court, too.   But, yeah. 

Q.   So you get your emotions from him?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   Yeah, I think so, yeah.

Q.   Let's talk about your doggies. 
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   Yeah, I got two little Yorkies.   Boodie and Spikey.   This is their first trip with me on the tournament. They only always come to Boca Raton when I have my offseason. 
Now they start to travel with me during the tournaments.   It's easy.   I have my boyfriend.   Sometimes he's taking care, sometimes me.
So it's nice.

Q.   What did you tell your doggies in terms of the pressure of being a tennis dog?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   They have no idea.   They just ‑‑they're fine.

Q.   Do the dogs socialize with other dogs?   A lot of players now have dogs on women's tour.   Do the dogs hang out together?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   I just met Caroline's dog and they didn't really like each other (smiling). 

Q.   What do you think you sort of learned from this experience of getting to this big spotlight of the Grand Slam final?   You're getting really close to top 10 now.   The attention I think will probably just sort of keep growing.   What have you learned from this experience so far?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   It made me stronger.   It give me really big self‑confidence that, you know, I can make it.   It was something completely different, you know.   It was something I really work like for the whole life.   My whole life I work for something like that.
Now like it was right there.   So I think I learned many things, and it gave me this confidence that and I'm proving right now I have on the court.

Q.   Offcourt attention, would you handle that in the future differently or not?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   I just know next time when I gonna play my next Grand Slam finals I'm just gonna come home for two, three days and I have two, three days of the press and everything, and then I gonna go and relax somewhere.

Q.   On TV they were comparing your serve and Radwanska's, which is not that powerful, but you have a pretty good serve.   Are you proud of it?   How do you get such power of it?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   Actually, today, I don't know why it is, but always again Li Na my serve is just not there.   You know, maybe I try to go for too much or I know that she's pushing me from the return and it's just not there, you know. 
Because my serve improved so much since last year.   Since two years I have a new coach.   We worked on the serve a lot.   Usually it's much better. 
Today it was ‑‑ I think the biggest difference that I lost today was because her serve was better than mine, you know.

Q.   But aside from today, why have you been able to kick it up?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   We changed some things, trying to jump more from my legs because I have to use every centimeter of my size.   Because I'm really small, so I cannot serve like Sharapova is serving from like this.   I have to ‑‑yeah, I have to jump to get that high.
For somebody it's natural and somebody not.   For me, it's not natural.   That's why my serve improved because I start to do better at these things.

Q.   Lots of men have been talking about Stan winning the Australian Open, thinking, If he can do it, I can do it.   Do you think there is a feeling out there with the women as well that a change is coming, people are thinking, Why not me?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   Yeah, you know, the first time when I realized this was when my really good friend, Marion Bartoli won Wimbledon.   It was like, you know, I know her since very long time and she was working so hard for this, and nobody would ever say that she will ever win Wimbledon, you know, and she made it. 
Since that, you know, it gave me like different look.   It's not only Serena or, I don't know, Li Na or somebody else winning the Grand Slams, but it's possible also for us who is working for it and who has the game and who can do it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT