ROGERS CUP WOMEN
August 6, 2013
Dominika Cibulkova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 D. CIBULKOVA/A. Kerber
  6‑7, 6‑2, 7‑5 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Long struggle.   You really had to hang in there.   
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   Yeah, it was really tough match.   Angelique, she's putting everything back.   Her defensive game is really good, and I just had to be patient and aggressive today.   
So it was not easy.   My serve was not working like I was expecting.   But in the end I made it, so I was really happy.  
   
 Q.   Just talk about what were some of the keys for you to be able to pull it out in the third set?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   Yeah, I just‑‑ in the first set I had I don't know how many, five or six set points, and I didn't make any of them.   In the tiebreaker I, a little bit, lost myself.   
Today she was trying to play really low to my backhand, and then she was expecting me to play cross or waiting for my down‑the‑line to ‑‑she was expecting mistake from my down‑the‑line, and was like half and half, and I was just, after trying to go around my forehand and, you know, to do points with my forehand, and then to play first point down the line to her backhand to make her surprise.  
So it was playing on the court a lot today.  
   
 Q.   It's complicated against her.   You were talking at Stanford about playing aggressive and playing steady, not getting so crazy.   Seemed like today you almost found the balance?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   Yes, exactly.   Today it was great, and I fought back from the 4‑1 down in the third set, you know.  
But it's never easy, you know.   You know, you have to go for it.   Then when you make some mistakes, then you get a little bit nervous.   You know, in the match it's a little bit different than in the practice.  
So, you know, I was happy second set I played really, really great, and my backhands down the lines were very good.   I was going for swing volleys, and that was really, really good.  
   
 Q.   The match almost goes three hours, and it seemed in the third set you were getting stronger and that she was maybe fading a little bit.   Did you feel that a bit?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   Yeah, a little bit in the end I was feeling that when I'm pushing her and when she has to run, because usually she doesn't have a problem to run there and back, there and back, 100 times.  
But in the end, you know, it was really long match because we had long rallies, and I was the one who was making her, you know, making her run.   I think it's normal that she became tired.  
   
 Q.   Which physical qualities priority is for you during this tournament?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   What do you mean?   
   
 Q.   Speed?   Are you focusing on speed?   Endurance?   
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   No, nothing, nothing special, just, you know, I have good fitness, good conditioning because it's part of my game, you know.   I have to be fit.  
You know, I just put everything together.   I'm really fast on the court, but you have to last long.   It's not easy sometimes to combine.   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   I guess the advantage, if there was one of losing early last week, was you got a little bit of time to rest and, you know, refocus and recharge for this week now?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   Yeah, maybe.   As I said in Stanford, I knew it's not going to be easy to come back from such a win in Stanford and to be there in SanDiego.   So many tournaments in a row, to play well, it's not easy.   
I didn't feel really fit against Ana.   You know, in the third set I was just out of energy and it was ‑‑she played really well, and it wasn't my day.   Then I took two, three days' easy practice and to get my energy back and, you know, to be just, you know, to be fit for this tournament and it looks like it paid off.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT