APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 11, 2013
Dominika Cibulkova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. RADWANSKA/D. Cibulkova
  6‑0, 6‑0

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Was there anything underlying, an injury that you were trying to shield?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   No.   I would like to say there was, but there was no injury.
No, I was feeling fine during the match.   No problem with my body.   It was fine. 

Q.   We could almost feel your frustrations growing?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   Yeah, yeah, it was first time something like that happen to me.   Especially in the finals it was not easy, because in the finals you want to play your best and you want to win.
I was losing every game, and actually I felt that I could win every game I lost until 6‑0, 1‑0.
When I lost that 1‑0 again in the second set, I just completely kind of break down and stop thinking about what I have to do and how to play well.   I was just thinking, Oh, my God, what is happening? 

Q.   You said it hasn't happened in a final before.   Has it happened any other time before at the WTA level?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   I think first time.

Q.   Therefore no explanation?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   No, it was just sometimes there are days that it's not going your way.   It was just the one for me today.   All the balls I missed and it was just not going right way and everything was going for her.

Q.   After the first game in the second set, what, you felt like you started choking even though you had many games left?   You were thinking maybe 6‑0, 6‑0?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   I was not choking, but I was starting to think about the score, you know.   Until then I was just going for‑‑ I had some strategy that I want to do. 
And then after 6‑0, 1‑0, 2‑0, I was like, Oh, my God, what is happening?   Now it's like the score that didn't want to be in. 
After I stopped thinking and I was just thinking about the score all the time, yeah.

Q.   Is that partly due to the way she plays, that she gives you nothing?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   Yeah, exactly.   That's the way she plays.   I knew that she would not give my one easy ball, and it was making my frustration even bigger because I knew that I have to play good to win rallies with her or to win games.
She didn't give me nothing for free.   Maybe if she would miss one ball on the break point or game point, you know, it would be completely different match.   But it was just not, you know. 

Q.   Going into next week, do you just try to wipe that out and think about...
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   Yeah, yeah, I was just talking with my coach, and he said it was really great week for me.   I beat three top 10 players.   Maybe that's why the finals was from the beginning just not going my way.   I was maybe not ready for it because the whole week I just played so well.
After maybe I didn't handle the situation very well, yeah.

Q.   Even in the first set didn't you think, Okay, I'll just try to play long points with her?   Your were missing your big shots.   You were missing your forehand a lot. 
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   Yeah, yeah, that's what happened.   After I just wanted to stay in a rally with her, but it's just not something I'm used to do, you know.   I'm just start to play with less power, and that's not where I feel comfortable.
Then I just didn't want to do the mistakes and then I was doing even more mistakes.   It was just like this, you know, going round.

Q.   Are you able to give us an idea on just how well she's playing.   Obviously this week you beat third, fourth, and fifth seeds, and she just seems to be another level. 
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   She's playing very different from all the other girls, you know.   I felt with her today that I have so much time that I was just like thinking I can play there, there, and there, and in the end I just did mistake. 
So she's just waiting for mistakes and just giving you go this extra ball to play.   Yeah, you know, she's not making any mistakes, and that's maybe just putting you under this kind of strange pressure. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT