NEW HAVEN OPEN AT YALE
August 23, 2012
Dominika Cibulkova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. WOZNIACKI/D. Cibulkova
  6‑2, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Yesterday you talked about how you're familiar with each other's games.   You had success with her.   Today was it a combination of her doing things differently or you not doing them as well, a combination?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   I would say in the first set I didn't play well for two games from 2‑1 to 4‑1.   But the rest, you know, was like deuce/advantage, so it could be the other way or the other. 
I should be more calm and more just relaxed.   I was just too much thinking of the mistakes.   When I did it, I was just like going through my mistakes. 
In the second set, I don't know what, I was just too much watching her, what she's doing.   Obviously with her knee injury, what she was doing, maybe it was too much thinking of her.   I lost my rhythm and it was just not going well at all. 

Q.   The unforced errors, things you can't control, you're not able to play as well as you want, does that bother you more than losing?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   Yeah, of course.   The second set was just mental part I didn't handle well today.   I was just a little bit not mature for me.   I was just thinking about her and not playing my tennis, you know. 
Then I started to do mistakes.   It was just all wrong. 

Q.   You didn't seem to realize immediately what was going on when she called for the trainer.   How much of a distraction was that from you?   Did you see any difference in her play afterwards?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   That's what I said, I was paying too much attention to her.   When you ask for a physio like this, I was serving, it was my game, it was during the game, it doesn't happen often.   When you do it, it has to be serious.   You really either cannot move or you cannot continue or something like that. 
Then I won that game.   The other game, I just missed one ball.   I was kind of looking at her, she was limping.   After I didn't want to miss a ball.   That's what was happening.   I was doing so many mistakes.   Yeah, that's what happened. 

Q.   How do you feel going into the US Open?   You started the summer really well. 
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   Yeah, the summer I started really well.   With the Olympics, it was not easy, the travel and the change of surface.   Previous two rounds here I finally felt pretty good again on the court.   Playing Medina and Petkovic, I was in good form. 
This match I want to forget really, really quickly. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT