MERCURY INSURANCE OPEN
July 21, 2012
Dominika Cibulkova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 D. CIBULKOVA/N. Petrova
  7‑6 (8), 6‑1 
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the tiebreak?   You go down 4‑0.   
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   Yeah, the tiebreak was like ‑‑ I'm pretty sure that's the key why I won the match because after she went down a little bit, and yeah, she was up 4‑0 and it's not easy to play tie breaks against such good serving players.   
But you know, I just said to myself, I don't want to give it up.   I just want to make it as tough as I can for her, you know.   And fight for every ball.   And that's tennis.   She can miss one easy ball, then I can hit something good, and that's how it happened today that I won it.  
   
 Q.   You seemed to neutralize her serve.   It was a big weapon in the first set, and in the second set your return‑‑  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   Yeah.   I think also my return because I won the first set, so I relaxed a little bit more, and my return is overall what is very good, and it was working today.   And when my coach came after the first set he told me something that he saw in the serve, and it was really working, so he helped me.  
   
 Q.   You called your coach in the third game, is that right, of the first set?   
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   Nadia Petrova called her coach?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   Yeah.   She called her coach.  
   
 Q.   Talk about what he told you at that point.   
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   When did my coach came?   Do you know.   Do you have any idea.  
   
 Q.   At 4‑3?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   4‑3 for me.   Yeah, he just told me to be relaxed on her serve because sometimes it puts you down a lot when you fight through the balls, and you're on her serve and you are up 15‑0 or 30‑0 and she serves two aces or two very good serves, so he just told me not to make a big deal about it, and I was all the time complaining to him when I was on his side that I'm not doing nothing with her serve.   I have to go for it.   And he just told me that you know, like okay you have to go for it but not like crazy crazy you want to go for it.   Go for it a little bit easy and make her run.   Don't want to do like a winner from it and then you can make a winner from the second ball.   So that's why I also started to return better in the second set.  
   
 Q.   She called for the trainer after the first set.   Did you see a difference in her between the first and the second set?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   Yeah.   This is unusual on the women's tour.   There is a lot of calling for the trainers, and you never know if it's real or if it's a tactic.   So I had many matches like this, so I'm already used to this.   And sometimes it's not easy for your mental when you see her down and complaining and not playing so.   I was trying to not pay attention to her, and I saw in the last game of the match that she was running a lot, so it was good that I didn't pay attention to her.   
   
 Q.   You don't think that she was zapped?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   Maybe.   I don't think that she was not ‑‑ you know, it sometimes happens that it's really that bad or not, but obviously she was not feeling all right.   But I think also that I won the first set put her much more down.  
   
 Q.   Obviously this is a very different match for you.   
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   Yeah, yeah.   She beat me two and O, but she was playing unbelievable.   She was serving and everything was going in.   She's one of the players who you never know how she's going to play, and today was like she played well, but she also made some mistakes where she didn't do it.   
So I was coming to this match today confident because I knew I beat her I think three times on the hard courts.   So I knew that I can beat her if I want to play well.  
   
 Q.   Your semifinal and overall your thoughts going into tomorrow?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   Yeah.   Especially this tournament, we practiced with my coach for two weeks, try not to go for crazy shots.   If I just don't feel the ball, just play on the other side and I don't need to finish every ball and to kill every ball.   So you know, just maybe it's working.  
   
 Q.   You have a new coach.   I knew he was a little bit different than what you were used to.   
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   Yeah.   The biggest difference was, as I said even before, Jacques was a great coach, but in the end it was not helping me.   He was just putting too much pressure and with every ball I missed and every match I lost I was just putting myself really down because he was very, very tough.   
So after we split, you know, I just felt so much freer on the court, if I do mistake, it doesn't matter.   But still sometimes after the three years with him, I do mistake and go crazy about that and that is what the new coach is trying to tell me.   It's nothing.   It's one ball and it's not the end of the world, and you have to keep going.   So it's working really well.  
   
 Q.   Did it have a lot to do with the loss in Miami or was it kind of coming?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   I think it was coming overall, and since the beginning of the new year with him I didn't win a match, and it was very frustrating because on the practice I was playing really well, and then I went on the court and I just couldn't win a match and I was losing in three sets and all the time the same things, so I think it was a very good decision.  
   
 Q.   Could you tell, though, when you left (indiscernible) or they separated after Roland Garros, she went up and then went down that she was also emotionally affected a lot.   Did you think about that and said, okay, he looks pretty intense all the time.   
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   Yeah, he's very intense all the time.   I think me being with him two years is something now I don't know how I could handle it, but it made me maybe tougher in some way.   But as I said in the end it was not helpful, and whether or not I think it was a little bit different story thing, and I think she stopped tennis after few weeks, after few months maybe.  
   
 Q.   What's the name of your new coach?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   Peter.   And the second name I will spell because it's really hard.   M‑I‑K‑L‑U‑S‑I‑C‑A‑K.  
   
 Q.   Could you talk about looking at your junior results, too.   You were right there with Caroline and Victoria, all the players of your generation and you're the lowest.   You're approaching your career‑high ranking, but three of them have won.   Victoria's won a Grand Slam, Caroline's won a grand slam.   What is the little thing that separates you from them?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   It was always my mental part.   You know, on the matches I was dealing with so many things.   I could be winning easily first set and then I ‑‑ it's what I said before.   I lose one game and then I get really nervous about it and then I start to think about not the right things, but the wrong things, you know, and this is what makes a difference in this top level.   
But I think this is really, really good way with my new coach, what we do, and he also told me, you know, but everybody on tour all around knew that my game or my shots can be the best, but just my head needs to be better.   
   
 Q.   So you're not actually a positive person?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   Yeah.   I would say that this is something that I really need to work on because it's ‑‑ I don't know from where, but I guess it's something very negative on the court.   Like I miss a ball and I lose ‑‑ I miss some ball and I say, okay, now I'm going to lose the match.   Just not thinking ‑‑ this is not the right thinking if you want to be really on top.  
   
 Q.   Has that always been the issue or up until recently or something you've always struggled with?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   Yeah, I would say before maybe I struggled more with my confidence.   Maybe when I was 14, 15, 16 I didn't believe I could be so good, but after it was going away and the negative part was coming, you know.   
   
 Q.   Do you want to talk about Bartoli.   I believe you played her at Wimbledon?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   But it was really, really long time ago, and I was really surprised by that she beat Jankovic, especially in such a long match.   I thought Jankovic would be much fitter and that she would beat her even physically, but she didn't.   So I think my favorite today is really Bartoli.   She also had two tough matches, but I think she's a very experienced player for them to beat her today.   I think she's playing much more diverse.  
   
 Q.   Could you talk about how you feel?   Several matches have gone three hours and you've been able to get off the court.   
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   I don't know what you mean.  
   
 Q.   Just how quickly you've been able to get off the court and how you feel right now.   
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   Yeah.   I feel really fresh and good because as I said, I didn't have a three‑set match and all the other girls, they play crazy long matches also yesterday.   So I'm feeling really good for tomorrow, and I think it can be my advantage for tomorrow also.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT