SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 26, 2012
Dominika Cibulkova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







V. AZARENKA/D. Cibulkova
  1‑6, 7‑6, 7‑5

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Do you think there was any particular turning point in the match?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   The turning point was 6‑1 up and 5‑2 up on my serve, and I just didn't finish the match, you know.   Until then, I was killing her from the return and just from the forehand. 
After that, I just didn't want to go for so much.   I just wanted her to beat herself.   That didn't happen, you know.   I gave her like very little small chance.
That was the turning point.   It was after.   In the third set it was just about one or two points, you know.   It could be the other way around.   But the biggest mistake was that I just let her play, and I didn't finish it, you know. 
6‑1, 5‑2 against Vika and the way she's playing and she's winning, you know, and I was just playing really good today.   I mean, until 6‑1, 5‑2.

Q.   Of course it must be encouraging to know that you played so good, but the disappointment must be tough. 
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   Yeah, it's tough, because in last two months I have played a lot of matches like this, you know, that I just didn't finish.
It's just frustrating right now and pretty sad, because, you know, the way I played, I was just really making her move a lot on the court and just giving her ‑‑I mean, playing really good and killing her on the court.
And after, I just didn't finish it.

Q.   Did you watch the match yesterday, the Wozniak and Venus Williams match?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   Yeah, I watched it.   I saw it, but this was just a little bit different story.   I beat many of the top 10 players, almost everybody, so it was more like my thing. 
It's not like I was afraid to beat her or something like that.   It was more after I was fighting against myself, you know, then against opponents.   So it was my mental part that didn't work.

Q.   How much do you feel she raised her game at the end of the match?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   You know, she's a great player, great fighter.   But I let her play much more because I put my level a little bit more down.   Then she could come into the court and she could do much more. 
That's the difference, you know.   There is not a big difference, but when I put the difference on the court, it was 6‑1, 5‑2.   After it was very‑‑ like, we were even.   Yeah. 

Q.   It was a great match.   Of course sad for you.   You were playing absolutely perfect.   You know, all your strokes and going for everything.   At 3‑Love, you know, in the second set, you know, still, your game was still working.   You had to do something different in that second set.   What would you have done?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA:   At 5‑2, going for the serve, I would just convince myself that I have to do something that she will not miss.   I have to go for it much more, 100% more, because I was up, you know.   I was leading, and I had to be actually bigger on the court than I was before, and that I didn't do, you know. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT