WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2011
Dominika Cibulkova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 D. CIBULKOVA/C. Wozniacki
  1-6, 7-6, 7-5 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Will you tackle Sharapova in exactly the same way you did Wozniacki in the second and third sets?  
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: What else I can do, you know. That will be my goal for tomorrow. I played Maria two times -- I mean, three or four times, and last two times I beat her, but it was on clay. It will be a little bit different tennis.   
 Uhm, she's always great opponent. But I have a lot of confidence from last matches, and especially from win against Wozniacki.   
 So, uhm, I think it's going to be a great match tomorrow.   
  
  Q. You went for everything today, didn't you? No holding back on any shot.   
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, that's the way how you should play against Wozniacki because she's just great. She's the best in defensing, so she's defensive player. She's just waiting and waiting and then she takes her chance.   
 Today I had to take all or nothing, you know. After first set I realize, you know, I have to go for my shots hundred percent or any way I have no chance. That's how I started to play, and I was really going for everything. I play real well today.   
  
  Q. I think right after the second set they flashed the Marion Bartoli upset on the board. Did you see that? Were you able to take anything from it?  
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: I saw it, but I didn't pay attention. It was like I saw anything else. It didn't mean nothing to me. I was in my match. I didn't really, really care.   
 I mean, Marion is my friend; I'm happy for her. But I had my job to do there on the court.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about the atmosphere? Seemed as if the crowd was behind you.   
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, it was great atmosphere. After I won the second set, you know, I heard so many people screaming my name in so many different ways. It was really nice that the crowd was behind me and it was really supportive. I really love to play in front of the big crowd.   
 It really helped me today because it was really tough match mentally and physically against Caroline today. I think she play also really well. We had such unbelievable points sometimes, and it was really, really, really tough match.   
  
  Q. Do you think it was a bit of an advantage for you that you weren't on Centre Court or Court 1?   
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Uhm, maybe. Maybe, yes, because I played on Centre Court only once last year and I lost to Serena. It's a little bit different atmosphere. Caroline already played there a couple more times. The Centre Court here is always not easy to play on.   
 So, uhm, it was maybe a little bit. But we had the same conditions both, but I was okay with it.   
  
  Q. Was it hot?   
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, it was really -- I think it was the hottest day today. It was really warm, especially the first set. After some clouds came and it was a little bit not so sunny, that helped because it was really not easy to play today. And it was also a tough match.   
 So, uhm, I show my good conditioning today.   
  
  Q. Wozniacki is the world No. 1. Do you think she doesn't have the aura of previous No. 1s before, like when Serena was No. 1?   
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: You know, it's not easy when you compare to Serena Williams, because she was the best player and she was just, you know, really tough to play. She had so many Grand Slam titles.   
 Caroline is now compared to the other No. 1s. She never won a Grand Slam, and that's what they ask her all the time, when is she going to win a Grand Slam. But if I'm would be No. 1, you know, I'm No. 1. It's also not easy to be there, so...   
  
  Q. Does she have less than an aura of Sharapova, particularly here at Wimbledon?   
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, uhm, I played her twice, Sharapova, you know, already, and I think we have respect for each other. We know it's going to be really tough match, and I'm really looking forward for tomorrow.   
  
  Q. I believe this is the first time in 100 years when all the women's quarterfinalists are from Europe. What do you make of that?   
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: I didn't know. I don't know if that's a big deal for somebody. You know, I'm in the quarterfinals, and that's the most important for me.   
  
  Q. Will you be happy to go on Centre Court tomorrow?   
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: We'll see. I will be happy with Court No. 1, Court No. 2, Centre Court. I really want to play my best tennis tomorrow. Doesn't matter on which court.   
  
  Q. If you were ranking your previous victories, where would you put this one?  
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: This one? Uhm, in one of the top five maybe because, you know, is big tournament and it's not first round, second round. It's already fourth round to go for the quarterfinals. It's really big win, and today was really great match.   
 So I would rank it as top five wins, yeah.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT