MEDIBANK INTERNATIONAL
January 11, 2011
Dominika Cibulkova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







D. CIBULKOVA/C. Wozniacki
  6-3, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Is that your first win over a player ranked No. 1 in the world?
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah. I think I beat No. 2, No. 3, No. 4, No. 5 and everybody, just not No. 1. So I'm really happy about it.

 Q. Did you give yourself a good chance going in?
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: I was just -- I think this is the most important thing, because I was going on the court, like I saw myself like a winner from the first until the last point. 
 So it wasn't surprising for me. I was just playing my game. I just had my plan. I knew it was going to work if I just stick to my plan.

 Q. How big a confidence boost is it for you, especially to win in straight sets? 
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Um, you know, it gives me really a lot of confidence. But I just have to get used to this is my game and I can beat everybody in two sets. Today a little bit the rain actually a little bit helped me today when it was 3-2, because, you know, I started well and then I was just going a little bit more back. I talked to my coach and it really helped me. 
 So I had to fight through it, but then I made it in the end. 

 Q. 2010 was a bit of a frustrating year for you. What have you changed about your game or the way you approach games to start 2011 so well?
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: You know, there are many things going together to play well on the court. In 2010 I had a lot changes. I just change my coach who I work with for three years. I had another coach, and it was not successful. Then I had another coach.
 Then in the end, Zeljko, my new coach, came out of nowhere and we started to work. He really give me a lot. So I think this is the most important thing. Everything is going well. I have my team and I'm happy. We're just working, you know. 

 Q. Your thigh, is there an injury there or just a precaution?
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: No, no. It's fine. I just pulled a little bit in the first match against Kirilenko. This was small prevention because it happened to me a lot, so I don't want to underestimate anything. It's nothing serious. 

 Q. Does this win change your ideas about your chances of success at the Australian Open?
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: I think this win can give me really a lot confidence. That's what I need, because I'm playing really well. My shots are just too good. I just need the confidence to believe that, you know, I just can beat anybody and I can play like this five matches in a row, five, six, and that's what it takes to win a tournament.
 So, no, I just need this confidence, and then I can be different player like this. 

 Q. How did you cope psychologically having been top 15 and getting the injury and falling down a little bit?
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, it wasn't easy, because it happened to me 2009, the injury. Then this thing with the new coach and with the other coach. It was just -- it just wasn't easy for me. 
 And I think for all the tennis player it's the most important thing, you know, to feel good, you know, and just to come on the court and don't have any other problems. You know, just to be concentrate. I think this is very important. 

 Q. Have you set yourself a goal for the Australian Open and for the season? 
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: You know, I don't have really like a goal that I want to play semifinals or quarterfinals or something like that. I'm just going match by match. For me, it's the most important to play my game like this: aggressive and not lose myself after two or three mistakes. Just be there in the match and know what I have to play, and then I can beat anybody.

 Q. You mentioned a game plan. Was the game plan specifically towards Caroline or just about your own game?
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: No. It was just about my own game. She's really defensive player. Today you could see it on the statistic. I made 30 winners, and that's what made me to win the match.
 And this is the type of game I play. It really work out today. 

 Q. You did rack up more winners and unforced errors. Did you decide just to go for broke?
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: No, but if you go for winners you also make mistakes. That's what it takes. This is what I just -- because before I was making like big deal. If I made a mistake then I wasn't playing the same thing. 
 But since the last matches and also today, I make mistake, but it's okay because I know what I want to do, and next point it will be good, you know. Just not to get nervous about one or two mistakes.

 Q. Takes more confidence to keep going for the winner after you've made mistakes. 
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, of course. These matches are just giving the confidence. Of course you need to practice very well and very hard for to play like this. I just had the great off-season. I was working really hard. It's paying off. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT