U.S. OPEN
September 6, 2010
Dominika Cibulkova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 D. CIBULKOVA/S. Kuznetsova
  7-5, 7-6 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. It was a huge win. What do you think the key was? Looked like you really used your speed and consistency against her.   
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, I would say it was a good match from my side. You know, I was just trying to be aggressive as I could, and Svetlana today, she lets me be more aggressive.   
 I think it was the key for sure, because always when I started to be more passive, I let her play, you know, I was losing the points. So I was just trying to step into the court, you know, tried to move her more around the court.  
  
  Q. Did you come into this tournament thinking you could make this kind of a statement or is it a bit of a surprise for you?  
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Um, you know, I was really working hard for this, and I had tough time. I had some of the unlucky matches I lost, and I didn't really have a good run in this tournaments in America.   
 So, you know, I was really pumped for this. I know my game and I know myself, so I knew I could make it; I could beat everybody in this tournament. You know, I was just waiting for a moment, and I'm happy it's here.  
  
  Q. She obviously is an extremely talented player. What does it mean for you to do this against her here?  
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: It means, you know, a lot, because if you beat such a good player in the Grand Slams, they always want to do the best here.  
 I knew it before the match, you know, but I was just trying to not think about it, you know, too much. You know, I was just trying to focus on myself, you know, and to do right thing and to do what I have to do to beat her, you know, step by step.  
 It just a little bit came to my mind when I was 5-3 up and match points. You know, I just got a little bit nervous. Maybe you could see it. But, you know, I fought through it, and, you know, I knew I have to be aggressive again to win it. It will happen.  
  
  Q. How would you describe your playing style and your strength for someone who is not perhaps too familiar with your game? For someone who is not too familiar with your game, how you would you describe?  
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Describe myself? I would say I'm pretty fast on the court. I have no problem with long rallies, and I really like to step into the court and play fast and not give time to my opponent. You know, to do a lot with my forehand.   
 I'm still working on my serve, you know, to believe it can be better, because it still can be better. My game is just trying to play fast and not let the opponent push me.  
  
  Q. You're facing Sharapova or Wozniacki in your next round. What are your thoughts on that match?  
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: My thoughts on that match? Um, you know, I played both, and we -- I beat both players, so it's gonna be open match. I'm pretty sure it's gonna be a great match, you know.   
 It's quarterfinals of the Grand Slam, so we gonna fight for every point. I just gonna watch them -- you know, I know them both, so we know each other. It's gonna be tough.  
  
  Q. Who would you prefer to meet?  
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Um, I never have this, you know, if I would prefer to meet somebody, because I cannot do anything about the match. So I will just, you know -- I will just focus on my next opponent and who's gonna win the match.  
  
  Q. You've lost the last four meetings against Caroline Wozniacki, the last one in New Haven a few weeks ago. What is it that makes her so difficult to play against for you?  
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: You know, because she's really consistent, you know, and she can keep the level that she's playing the whole match. You know, I was playing against her -- the last match I was 4-2 up and I was playing, you know, great.   
 But then I was just not able to keep this level. This gonna be my goal if I gonna play against her, to try to keep more consistent, and, yeah.  
  
  Q. Did you play against her in juniors?  
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah. We played.  
  
  Q. Do you remember the first time you played against her?  
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: The first time, no. I think we played two times in the juniors. I think once I beat her and once I lost to her. And then once I beat her in Beijing, I think, two years ago, something.   
  
  Q. Same kind of player then, or have you seen...   
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: She's now No. 2 in the world, so she must have improved in something, you know.  
  
  Q. Of course, yeah.   
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: And, you know, I think she's trying to play a little bit more aggressive now, you know. She not only with the backhand, also with the forehand she's a dangerous player.   
 You know, we're in the quarterfinals of the Grand Slam, so you cannot play against somebody that doesn't know how to play.  
  
  Q. Does your mentality or your state of mind change against the big players? You beat Sharapova at the French. You seem to get up for those players. Do you do anything different against them?  
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: You know, I beat, I don't know, it was maybe two years in Montreal, I had great run. I beat Dementieva, I beat, Jankovic, I beat Petrova, and I beat Bartoli. So, you know, I realize that I can beat them already maybe two, three years ago, and that's how I go on the court.   
 You know, I'm not just going there to win just couple of games. I just go on the court and I know that I can beat them. That's the most important thing.  
 You know, today's match was really, really hard, but, you know, I'm happy I, you know, did it and I stay real aggressive.  
  
  Q. Could you talk a little bit more just about being short? Is it a pain? Is it a drag? Do you sometimes see it as an advantage? Do you get some joy from it? Just talk about that.   
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Being what?   
  
  Q. Being short.   
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Being short? Ah, being short. (Smiling.)  
You know, I don't take this like disadvantage, because, you know, okay, I'm short, but, you know, I'm really quick. I can be fast on the court, and I have no problem with the low balls. I still can play fast and step into the court, so I really like the way I'm short.   
 Maybe I could be little more centimeters taller for my serve, but it's still nothing like, you know, I really struggle with. So I'm happy the way I am.  
  
  Q. Is it a little tougher, though, against a somewhat defensive player like Wozniacki?   
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: She has -- I mean, um, I wouldn't say it's not advantage for me, because, you know, I still have really fast arm and I have fast legs, so I can move around the ball really good and I can step into the court and just hit the winners from the forehand I would say from wherever I am in the court.  
 So, um, I don't take it like it's not advantage.  
  
  Q. Were you planning to be that aggressive before? Or as you saw the way she was playing, did that make you want to be even more aggressive in your plan?  
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Today against you Kuznetsova? Yeah, I was a little bit surprised -- not surprised, but in the first, in the beginning, she was putting a little more pressure on me. It's hard to be aggressive when somebody's playing -- is really pushing you behind the baseline.   
 But then, you know, she just chose the way of play, you know, to wait for my mistakes. I just took my chances and I was just stepping into court. She just let me to play aggressive and she just let me play my game, and I played well today.  
  
  Q. You've obviously always had the talent and game to take down almost any player, these big-name players, and you have the sort of attitude to take them down. Have you reached a point of impatience where, say, look, I can do this; I know I can beat them; it's time for me to make a Grand Slam; I have to make my move?  
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: You know, for this you need also confidence and you need to be consistent. Last year when I reached my semifinals, after I was just a little bit unlucky with the injuries. I changed my coach, so it was not the best moment, you know, in the tennis.   
 You know, I was struggling for half a year, but, you know, I have a new coach and I'm, you know -- I can say I'm happy to be back.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT