NATURE VALLEY INTERNATIONAL
June 26, 2018
Dominika Cibulkova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. KERBER/D. Cibulkova
6-3, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Do you feel like the break points that you missed were important?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah.  Yeah, it all made the difference in the scoring, actually, because I feel like today I had so many chances but I was always away from the game, like, one point.  I just didn't make it.
If I just would make one or two games from the ones that I didn't make, it would be completely different, because I think it was really even today.
Q. How do you feel six days from Wimbledon?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, you know, I was hoping to get more matches here.  Actually, I had a tough first-round win and good win against Makarova.  She's playing well on the grass and it was really good match.
Today the score is a little bit disappointing, but the game is there.  So it's like this.  Really small differences.  Yeah, you know, I feel really pumped before Wimbledon.
Q. You're probably aware that the seedings come out for Wimbledon tomorrow.  We're just interested in what you think about whether Serena Williams should be seeded or not, because you're potentially the player at 32...
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, so what do you think?  I cannot -- for me it would be great if she's not seeded, but I cannot do anything about that (smiling).
So that's their decision.  They have the right to do it.  So what I can do, you know?  Yeah, she won it so many times, so if I would be maybe 31 I would say, yeah, she has the right to be seeded (smiling).
But like this, you know, it's hard to say anything.  It will be, you know, how it will be.  I don't want to just be so, you know, uptight with the seeding, you know.
I had good results on the Grand Slams even I was not seeded, and I had bad result when I was seeded.  So it's all about a little bit of the luck in the draw and you still have to play good.
Q. In general, do you think it's right that women who have given birth are given a protected seeding, or should emphasis also be given to players who have been out there and...
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Oh, I think it's now right what WTA did that you can have protected ranking.  I think that's good.
But I think this is a little bit different story, no, to get, I mean, seeded spot in the draw.  I think it's not because she was pregnant.  She might have been injured for one year, and it would be -- so I think these are two different stories, no?  I think so.
Q. What do you think about the protected seeding if you're pregnant?  Do you think it's right that a player who has given birth should be given a protected seeding?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: I mean, you mean seeding at a Grand Slam, to be seeded?
Q. Yes.
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: I don't know.  I think if it will be a different player, not her, I think she will not get -- I think she would not be seeded.  It's just because she won it many times and she's Serena Williams.  So I think that's why.
Q. Were you personally pleased to see her come back and the incredible attention that she brought to the whole tournament in Paris?  Did you get to see that?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: I didn't follow her.  I didn't follow her matches.  I didn't follow her story at the French Open.
But, you know, it's her and she's just playing, I think, already playing legend, so it's normal  that it's like this, yeah.
Q. Did you think in the last few weeks, oh, I need to make sure I'm up a few more spots, like I need to get up to 27 to make sure...
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, of course I knew it.  But it was the same thing with the Roland Garros when I -- it all complicated my things this year that I couldn't play for two months in March and April because I was sick, and it all actually ruined my schedule of the year.
So I had to come back, and all the players were already, you know, playing really well.  I didn't do really good on the clay.  Then I decided to go to Strasbourg and I was not seeded at the French Open, and I first round lost to Goerges, really close match.
Since then I'm on the edge to be seeded on the Grand Slams.  So in Birmingham I lost in the first round, and it's just like this, you know.  That's tennis.
So I don't really want to focus myself on the seeding.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT