ROGERS CUP PRESENTED BY NATIONAL BANK
August 3, 2008
Dominika Cibulkova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  D. SAFINA/D. Cibulkova  
6-2, 6-1  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Did you wish some rain today to refocus and speak with your coach?   
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: You know, it wasn't really the same case like yesterday. It was just the thing that I was pretty nervous in my first big final and I wished to play better. I'm kind of upset of how I played in the final because I wish, you know, to play better, to have a good match against Dinara.   
 But I think she played really well. You know, I hope next final I will just play better.   
  
  Q. It seems today every decision you made turned against you.   
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, it was kind of like this because, you know, she was serving pretty good. I just didn't know what to do with the return because when I stepped back, she served like more angles. Then when I come into the court, she was playing to my body, so it was really hard to return her serve because she was serving pretty well.   
 In the rallies, I didn't really play what I wanted. You know, I was scared to make a mistake. That's why I was standing behind the baseline. It was all not good today. But it happens.   
  
  Q. Yesterday you were able to come back after losing the first set. What prevented you today?   
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: It was actually when I get the chance, when I get the break ball, I just made like very big mistake. I just miss the return or I missed the easy, easy shot. Today I made a lot of unforced errors. Actually it was every time when I to come back into the match, I just made a mistake that you cannot do in the final if you want to win.   
  
  Q. When you look back at who you beat in this tournament to get to the final, what do you take away from this experience?  
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: I mean, it is a great experience, this final for me. You know, I beat a great players. I beat, you know -- every round I beat a better player than me. I just played really well in this tournament. That's how I say, it's a great experience for me because next final, you know, I will be more relaxed and I will be not like, you know, scared about it.   
  
  Q. There's no really dominant No. 1 on the tour. Do you feel there's a window of opportunity for players like yourself to get good experience and make a move?  
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: You know, after this tournament, I will be I think the top 20. That's the place I think I belong. I think I can go farther, collecting the experience, when I will just work hard, how I work now.   
 I think it's a good chance and good op -- yes, it's a good chance (laughter).   
  
  Q. Are you going to Beijing?  
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yes.  
  
  Q. What do you think of that?  
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Tomorrow I fly home and on Wednesday I fly to Beijing. I really looking forward to go there. I'm so excited about my first Olympic Games. It will be just something different, Olympic Games. I will be playing not just for myself, I will be playing for Slovakia. I hope to play well. Now I have enough confidence to believe in myself and we will see there.   
  
  Q. How magic of a week was this for you?   
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: This was my best week ever and I really enjoy it because when you beat your idol or if you beat a player who you always look up, you know, it's something special for me. How you say? It was just the best week for me. I hope to have more weeks like this.   
  
  Q. Which one was your idol?  
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: You know, I really liked the game of Jelena Jankovic. When I was little, I saw Dementieva playing in the TV and I really like her. So, you know, yeah.   
  
  Q. How did you feel about the crowd? Seemed like the crowd was behind you today.   
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yes, I felt like home because the people were just -- they were amazing, you know. I felt like they really like me. I just want to thank all the people who came to support me. I'm sorry for not really good final, but I hope they enjoy my previous matches.   
 You know, it's something different when you play and when you know the crowd is behind you. They were supporting me really nice. I'm really thankful for that.   
  
  Q. When you look at Dinara's game, how tough was it compared to the other players you faced?   
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: You know, it was really a big emotional for me this week because, how I just said, I beat the top players. To stay focused on every match is really, really tough when you beat every day like a great player.   
 I'm really happy that I make it into the final. In the final, you know, I think she played very well. She was serving pretty good. She was changing the rhythm and she was not making a lot of mistakes. And when I get the chance, I didn't make it. Against a good player like she is, you cannot do this.   
  
  Q. Do you think Dinara might be next No. 1?   
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: I think Dinara is now playing really well. She won L.A. She played the final of Roland Garros. I think she's playing pretty good. She's a hard worker. So I think she can really make it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT