ROGERS CUP PRESENTED BY NATIONAL BANK
August 1, 2008
Dominika Cibulkova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  D. CIBULKOVA/J. Jankovic  
7-5, 6-2  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. What do you want to tell us about the game? In what state of mind did you enter the game? Did you have high expectations?  
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Today in the beginning of the match, I didn't start pretty well because I was quite nervous a little bit and I was doing a lot of mistakes. But I knew that if I start playing my game and start to step in the court and move her more, then I can come back.   
 So I was just still believing in myself. I was playing point after point. I get back and she gave me a chance and I took it.   
  
  Q. What did your coach tell me?  
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: What did my coach tell me? We didn't really have a chance to talk about it because I had a lot of things to do. He's sitting right here, so you can ask him (laughter).   
 But, you know, I think he was pretty happy that I finally, you know, make it. I had a few tough weeks last week, so I'm really happy that it show up. I really excited about that.   
  
  Q. How excited are you about your week here? You've taken out a lot of top players.   
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: I mean, it's the best feeling if you beat somebody like Jelena. Especially it's like the first time I beat her. I played against her two really close matches. I know her game and I knew it will be very tough match, but I was confident about myself. I think I have a great week. I beat Elena Dementieva. Play one of my best tennis ever.   
 So I hope to keep going like this and we'll see.   
  
  Q. What did you do to prepare for this week?   
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: It's not just prepare for this week. I had the preparation before at Stanford and L.A. I did a lot of fitness. I was working really hard, like always. I was preparing also here. We were practicing also pretty hard in Stanford and L.A. I'm really happy that it show up, especially here. This is a big tournament.   
  
  Q. Everybody else seems rundown and exhausted. What are you doing different?   
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: What I'm doing different? What I'm doing different?   
  
  Q. You seem upbeat, you're smiling, winning.   
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: I think I'm in a good shape. You know, I believe in myself because I know that I was working for this pretty hard and I did everything what I could. I don't know. You know, I was just playing my game. I was standing on the baseline and I was sprinting pretty fast. We had really long rallies with Jelena. I think I make her tired. You know, that's it.   
  
  Q. When it was 5-1 in the first set, you totally turned things around. What went through your head at 5-1 that made things change?  
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: I didn't change. When it was 5-1, you know, from the beginning of the first game, I knew that I just don't feel it really well. I was trying to find my rhythm. I knew when I will find it, you know, when I will feel good in the rallies, then it will be not like 5-1 for Jelena, but it will be closer.   
 Then I found it when it was 5-1. I step in the court. Then I just stop making mistakes.   
  
  Q. Jelena said she was feeling dizzy on the court. Did you notice that?  
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: I didn't feel dizzy on the court, but it was pretty hot out there.   
  
  Q. Did you notice she was feeling bad?   
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yes, I thin I saw it on her. I also didn't feel like after the long rally like fresh and everything. I also feel tired. I saw it on her, that she's not just like robot. She's also a woman. She's also tired.   
 Yeah, I think just doesn't know what to do because I was not making mistakes. We played long rallies. I was winning long rallies. I was playing lots of down the lines. Then I start serving better. It was really good game today for me.  
  
  Q. Do you remember at what moment you saw her tired on the court? Was it in the first set?  
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Actually I don't remember if it was 15-All in 5-4. I just knew that she has to be tired, you know. That's part of my game, to make my opponents getting all tired, then to just beat them (laughter).   
  
  Q. You're becoming the crowd's darling right now. How do you feel about that?   
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: I don't know why they like me. I really enjoy it. I'm happy that the people like me here and I got a lot of fans. It's really nice to see that the people like you also in the other country and they are getting to know you. So I'm really happy for that.   
  
  Q. You had a very good match against Sharapova in the final at Amelia Island. Has that tournament been an important step for you?  
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: I will say it wasn't a really good match in the final against Sharapova in Amelia Island. I played a quite good matches in the first round, second round in Amelia Island. In the final, it wasn't a really good match. Then I play also against Maria in Rome, and it was in three sets.   
 I don't know. I just start to feel more confidence about myself. I start to believe that I can beat these, you know, best players in the world. I just lose the respect from them.   
  
  Q. Do you get the impression what you're doing here is a big stepping stone in your career that can launch you into that elite rank?  
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, I think that you are right. It could be possible because, you know, this is the first time I beat No. 2 in the world. Finally I beat Jelena in the third match against her. I'm really getting confidence. I think also the big players will get the respect of me, yeah.   
  
  Q. Of all the big victories you've had this year, which was the one that did that for you, convinced you you could get to that level?  
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: The first one was I think in Doha when I beat Venus Williams. It was my first like big victory against a player, like the top player. And then I beat Schnyder, Chakvetadze, Mauresmo, quite a lot of good players. I was getting a confidence, yeah.   
  
  Q. Bartoli could be next. What could you say about her?  
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, we will see. I played against Bartoli in Paris indoor. There was a time when I still had, like I said, the respect from the big players. We will see. It's different to play her indoor and outdoor. I will try to do my best. You know, I will watch the match and I will talk my coach about the tactic tomorrow. I will try to stay focused and keep going.   
  
  Q. Do you keep in touch with GaÃƒ «l?  
 DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: I don't want to talk about these things.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT