CONNECTICUT OPEN
August 25, 2017
Dominika Cibulkova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








D. CIBULKOVA/E. Mertens
6-1, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You've reached your first final of 2017, I believe.  Do you feel like you have momentum, not only going into this final but also going into the US Open?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, as I said on the court, finally I reach my first finals of this year.  I won three very good and solid matches in a row, so this gives me a huge amount of confidence, what I was really looking for during the whole year.
So I couldn't be more happy with my decision to play here in New Haven.
Q. Momentum is huge.  Do you think if you play too many matches going into the Open, is that an advantage?  Some of your top rivals are practicing and resting.
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Right now I was in position that I needed matches, and I wanted to play more matches.  So this was for me the best solution I could do.  That I'm playing finals here, that's really great for my confidence.
I practice so much during the whole year, and didn't manage to put it out during the match, so this is what I needed right now.  It really paid off.  So I'm happy this way.
Even last year I was able to win Eastbourne and come to Wimbledon to play in two days.  I still reached quarterfinals.  So this can be only good for me.
Q. With everything that's happened with your shoulder this year, what were you hoping to work on the most this week?  What do you feel you've accomplished?  How do you feel physically going in?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Physically I'm feeling really fine.  You know, physically I would say I'm 100% prepared.  I worked really hard on my physical.  So that's 100%.
I was hoping to get more solid with my level of tennis to go in every single match.  That's what I achieved here.  You know, every single match I was playing better and better.  This is how I play when I'm playing my best tennis.
This week was really important for me it finally click in the right way.
Q. Mentally for you, how important was the break in the second set, to not give her the momentum?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Today in second set I won two games, I was down 15-40.  This just shows how strong I was on the court today.  I wasn't thinking about the score.  I was just really trying to be positive and thinking about the next point what I want to do, not think about the score.
My coach, when he came on the coaching, it was 3-4, he give me one, two good tips.  I used it.  When she was serving, it was 4-All -- no, 3-All, broke to go 4-3.  I started to return much better her second serve in the end of the match.  That's why I broke her and I won in the end.
Q. At the end of the match you seemed so excited.  A big fist pump.  Was there a big relief obviously because this being your first finals of the year?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yes, of course, I am excited because I didn't win three matches in a row the whole season this year.  It's finally here.  Before this tournament we were all setting some goals for the next few tournaments.  I said, Okay, my first goal is I want to win three matches in a row.  After this one it's finally happening, it's finally here.  That's why I was so happy, because I reached the first goal in the first tournament.
Q. A lot of players don't like to play a week before Wimbledon.  You played Eastbourne and played well in Wimbledon.  Does it fit your game, playing the week before is what you need to prepare?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yes, it really fits my game because if I don't get too emotionally involved, no lose a lot of energy on the court.  Like now I didn't, I was just playing well, trying to play relaxed.  For me it's much more important to have a lot of good matches under my belt than to be practicing there at the US Open for a week.
You know, it can be both sides because sometimes you practice there, it's so many people, it's a lot of going on around.  If you are not top 10, you don't get the practice courts as long as you want.  Sometimes it's not easy there.
I don't really like that chaos around the US Open.  So this is the perfect way for me.
Q. How does a year like this happen where you don't win three matches in a row, coming off such a great season last year?  What was different?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Different?  I was in different position.  I was No. 4 or 5 in the world.  I had to get used to it a little bit.  I was putting too much pressure on myself.  I had a lot of expectation for myself.
Every single match I was approaching, I was favorite.  I didn't approach it in a good way.  I was just putting too much pressure on myself.  And, yeah, that was it.
Q. Your net play was really impressive today.  What was it about your matchup that you kept taking advantage of it?  Was it where she was placing herself on the court?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: In the beginning, what you said?
Q. Your net play.
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Oh, on net.
I didn't hesitate today at all.  When I saw she's reaching like this for a ball, I was just going for it.  I knew there cannot be any hesitation because she's that kind of player that she is trying to play aggressive.  She hits very good running forehand and running backhand.  But I tried to not let her play her game.  When I saw she's just reaching for a ball, I knew I had to go for it.
It's fine.  I'm not coming to the net often, but I like swing volleys.  This is the best way when I don't hesitate, I just go and hit a swing volley.
Q. Last time you made a US Open Series final, you played Radwanska in the final.  I don't know if it's her or not.  What are the challenges of playing someone like her?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, if it will be her, it's always very challenging to play against her.  She's very tricky player.  She's a great player.  We had so many matches against each other, especially last year.  Our matches were epic.
But we didn't play against each other this year, so of course it's going to be different.  But just want to stay focused.  I just want to approach, just to see it as another match, just try to play better and better, to keep my aggressive focus.
Q. Have you looked at the bracket for the US Open?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, not before the match, but after my match.  We spoke with my coach.  I'm playing Slovakian girl in the first round.  We know each other real well.
But that's still US Open.  I will bother myself with that when I get to the US Open.  I'll start to think about the US Open when I get there.  Right now I'm still here and I want to do well.
Q. Your opponent is only 21, just starting out.  Do you think she has a lot to look forward to as she begins her career?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, you know, I'm getting older, I'm 28.  All these girls are coming up, they're younger and younger.  It's not easy to play against them.  They are fearless, they have nothing to lose.
I respect her as a player.  She was playing really good today.  Just my game was too solid.  I was really just playing well and didn't let her do anything much on the court.
So, yeah, she's having a great season.  I think she can do well, yeah.
Q. What is your favorite memory of the US Open as a fan?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: As a fan?  What do you mean?
Q. When you were watching the US Open.
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Wow, I don't remember that.  Always when I lose, I don't follow up on that.  I mean, I don't watch the tournament any more.
Q. Other players, when you were a kid.
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: I don't know (smiling).
Q. You mentioned putting too much pressure on yourself, expectations.  How have you been able to move beyond that, I guess?
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Just it took me some time.  It's not easy.  I don't know.  I just started to focus on myself much more, not to think about how it's going to be the result, I should win this, how it's going to be.
Last year I was playing well because I was approaching like this, like yesterday, like today.  I just going to the match, wanted to give my 100%, not really think about a score, if I have to win or not.  That became my priority in the beginning of the year.  I was just thinking about that too much, I should be the one winning this one.  It was just not working for me.
But, I mean, I learned from my mistakes.  Yeah, I hope to keep up like this.  I hope to continue with the way I play right now.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT