BNP PARIBAS FED CUP: USA VS SWITZERLAND
April 20, 2019
Captain Kathy Rinaldi
Sloane Stephens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. STEPHENS/T. Bacsinszky   
6-4, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Sloane, back and forth in both sets.  Did you feel like you were in control the whole time out there?  
SLOANE STEPHENS: Yeah, I thought I played a good match.  Obviously when you play against a player like that, you can't leave too many openings.  When I got down a little bit, I was able to regroup, so that was good.   
Yeah, just happy to be through.   
 Q.  There was the stretch in the middle of the second set, three long games, you won two.  How did you get through that?  
SLOANE STEPHENS: Yeah, just keep fighting.  Obviously everyone knows we're playing for more than ourselves, we're playing for our country.  You have to dig, find the energy, muster it up, fight as much as you can, make sure you get those games.   
 Q.  Is it sweeter to pick up your friend and teammate Madison after a tough loss?  
SLOANE STEPHENS: Yeah, obviously she didn't have a great day.  That's why we're on a team.  We're level at 1-All.  We just have to get back out there tomorrow and try to get the win.   
 Q.  Obviously your result was crucial to this tie and everything.  Talk about your mindset.  
SLOANE STEPHENS: Yeah, definitely.  I obviously I just wanted to go out and get the point for our team.  Like I said, Maddie didn't have a great day.  We're just going to regroup and come back tomorrow.   
We're level at 1-All.  Yeah, we have a good home crowd.  We got good backing, great energy.  We just got to go out there and fight hard and dig.   
 Q.  Kathy, your impressions a little bit of today's matches.  
CAPTAIN RINALDI: As Sloane said, Maddie had a tough day.  All credit to Switzerland.  Golubic came out and played a very solid match.  Sloane picked up her teammate.  That's what we do.  We're here to have each other's backs.   
I thought Maddie rebounded, came out and supported Sloane, as did the bench.  Sloane played a terrific match, got us back in.  We're at 1-All now.   
 Q.  Kathy, Heinz yesterday talked about their versatility being a key.  How do you feel like that played a role today?  
CAPTAIN RINALDI: They're crafty players, as you can see.  They have a lot of slice.  They're throwing a lot of different shots at you.  We knew that coming into this tie.  This week we worked on a lot of slice, picking up slice, dropshots, all kinds of things.   
I think Sloane just handled it beautifully today.  Tomorrow we're going to come out and look to do the same thing.   
 Q.  Nice crowd out there, especially the Spurs were across the street with a big playoff and everything.  It was a nice crowd.  Talk about that.  
SLOANE STEPHENS: Yeah, no, I thought it was great.  It was very full.  I haven't played a tie since last year when we played in France.  It was packed.  I thought today the crowd was awesome.  It was really full.   
Obviously to play at the same time as the Spurs is, like, I mean, yeah (laughter).   
CAPTAIN RINALDI: And Easter weekend.   
SLOANE STEPHENS: Yeah, Easter weekend.  I thought we had a great turnout.  The fans were awesome today.   
 Q.  Can you assess the matchups tomorrow, Kathy.  
CAPTAIN RINALDI: Well, I mean, obviously we got a good look at their players today.  We're going to go back -- I really haven't had a chance to even think about it.  But we've done our scouting, not just this week but before the tie.  We've done our homework.   
We'll sit down again, put down the game plan.  We learned a lot today, so...   
 Q.  Do you think Madison can put this behind her?  Do you think she'll be able to come out strong tomorrow?  
CAPTAIN RINALDI: Madison is a professional.  She plays week in, week out.  She's here to represent our country and her teammates.  No doubt that she'll put it behind her and step up.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT