NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIP
March 19, 2016
Myles Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Entering the room is Myles Martin from The Ohio State University.  Tell us about your match briefly.
MYLES MARTIN: I don't really remember much.  I was just wrestling, competing, and then I look at the score.  But in a second, when he tossed me on my back I was a little worried.  But you can't stop wrestling.  So I wrestled through it and ended up on his back out of balance.  I just kept coming and I wasn't able to get it but.
Q. Myles, is it official, two-part question -- is it official, is Tom Ryan a genius?
MYLES MARTIN: Yes.
Q. Pulls you out of redshirt.  Second, you were 0-3 against him or 0-4?
MYLES MARTIN: I was 0-3 against him.  This was the fourth match.
Q. Would you trade the other three for this one?
MYLES MARTIN: Oh yeah.  Those other three were a learning experience.  If I didn't wrestle those other three I wouldn't have been able to compete like I did today.  Before, I, like, approached my match differently than I did today.  Approached it with just going out there in a wrestling position and just be free and open.  Before I didn't wrestle like that.  So having those two matches under my belt helped me compete like I did today.
Q. At what point in that six-point roll did you know you had to roll through there when it looked like he almost had you on your back?
MYLES MARTIN: I guess the last point when I was on my back and he was over the top of me, I felt his weight move more to my left side, and I thought I was able to get out and back on top of him.  So just had to keep wrestling my position, feel it.
Q. You put on quite a show in that match with that big six-point move.  What was your mindset going in knowing that he beat you three times before and how confident were you that you were going to get the win which obviously you did?
MYLES MARTIN: My mindset going in before was, like, he beat me three times already.  He pinned me at Big Tens.  I'm, like, it can't get any worse than that.  So the match, I figured I would go out there and wrestle and compete as hard as I can.  I've been doing it at practice.  Did it all during the year.  If I just stick to what I do best, and just have fun, that's the main thing about it, have fun and just wrestling position, and I competed and I was able to win.
Q. That moment you shared with Coach Ryan and those close to you can you tell me what that meant to you?
MYLES MARTIN: It meant so much to me.  I love that guy.  In the beginning of the season (indiscernible) about the whole redshirt, he cares so much about me and the team and he understands where I come -- small town in Penns Grove.  There's not much there, and he understands all that and he was able to support me if I needed anything, any kind of support just to talk to him about girlfriend problems, my father, stuff like that.  He was there.  I just love that guy so much.
Q. You said earlier in the season you weren't sure you were ready to come and wrestle and you've won this tournament.  You just qualified for the Olympic Trials.  Do you feel maybe you should go there, too?  Give it a try since this year you gave yourself a chance and you're now national champion?
MYLES MARTIN: Yeah, I talked to Kyle Snyder about it.  He said, hey, you won a national title.  Are you going to compete in the world trials?  I'm, like, we'll see what happens, because I didn't know how well I was going to do in this tournament.  And I just stay focused.  I didn't really worry about it.  I won and we'll see how I do at the Olympic Trials.  We'll see.
Q. Iowa does not get a team trophy, because the first time it's happened in over 10 years.  Your win made that happen.  Did you have any clue that anything like that was a thing?
MYLES MARTIN: Yeah, we had a meeting earlier today before the final session with Coach Ryan and all the guys.  And he said in order for us to get a team trophy we have to catch up to Iowa or Virginia Tech.  Virginia Tech was close too.  I was more focused on my match and just doing what I needed to do to do my part in the whole team race, and so was Kyle.  We just competed hard and I won and then we beat Iowa.
Q. Myles, you went out there -- a big part of Bo's game is intimidation.  Did you go out there with the intent that early bear hug to make a statement?
MYLES MARTIN: I went out there with the intent to just wrestle and compete in every position.  A lot of guys who wrestle Bo, they get intimidated, like you said.  They take a back seat and they're afraid of his counter offense.  You shoot a shot, he'll jack you up.  And a lot of guys don't like wrestling in that position.  I figured a lot of guys don't like wrestling in that position, he wins that position all the time, so why not compete with him where he's good at and see, like, what happens and I showed him the match.
Q. The way the bottom side of the bracket, your side of the bracket opened up for you, and now you have the chance to go against the top seed Nolf, did you have any chance chip on your shoulder really prove like hey I deserve to be here; it's not just because of some upsets?
MYLES MARTIN: I mean, yeah, a lot of guys got upset, like Roberto and Butler.  It's not me.  I'm competing just like everyone else and I was able to beat the guys they lost to.  So be it.  I made it to the finals and got a rematch with a guy who beat me three times in a row.  I'm just happy the way I competed throughout the whole tournament.  The coaches were so happy I got All-American, but I wasn't really thinking about it.  I was thinking about the next match, keep competing, competing hard.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT