NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIP
March 18, 2016
Myles Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We have Myles Martin.  Make a brief statement and we will open it up for questions.
MYLES MARTIN: Made it to the semis.  I was nervous, I'm a freshman.  I'm young, but my coaches told me to keep my head and stay focused, wrestled well against him.  He took out Realbuto with a good upset and made it to the semi.  So I had to wrestle my match, and I did and I got the victory.
Q. Myles, this is the third time that you wrestled Bo this year?
MYLES MARTIN: Yes.
Q. And was it close at the Penn State Nittany Lion Open?
MYLES MARTIN: This is the fourth.
Q. Is close at the Nittany Lion Open?
MYLES MARTIN: Yeah.
Q. And he opened up the gap on you a little bit between there and here?
MYLES MARTIN: I feel like it's a mental thing for me, I talked to my coaches about it the last time I wrestled him was at the Big Ten's.  I knew I approached it differently than I did anyone else, probably because I gave him too much respect, but I wrestled how I did this whole tournament.  I wrestled well and smart and wrestled the match I wanted to wrestle against him.
Q. Your assessment of what it's been like to go through the experience of powering through a bracket here at the NCAA Tournament.  Obviously you've wrestled many important events in the past getting to this level, but just your impression of this special event and how you've been able to be successful here?
MYLES MARTIN: As a kid I grew up watching these tournaments and I knew how cool it would be if I got to wrestle in them, and I always told my dad I can't wait to get in college and wrestle in them and it all came so fast.  When I got to the tournament I said at one point at a time, one take down at a time, and having that mind-set it helped me stay focused and wrestle in every position, have fun, wrestle free, don't focus on one thing or what the guy is good at because that will affect the way you wrestle.  So Terrell told me to wrestle free and leave it all on the mat, so I did.
Q. Myles, Bo was in here talking about there is no big deal being a freshman, you just got done saying you were nervous first time at it.  Talk to us how different it is why some freshman are able to adapt, why some or not, talk about this process?
MYLES MARTIN: For me, I wanted to redshirt in the beginning of the year because I didn't think I was experienced enough at college and I argued with the coaches a bunch of times and they knew I was ready.  But I failed to believe that.  It's all a mind-set for people, and I didn't think I was good enough to keep wrestling.  But you look at the Ohio State wrestling room you have Kyle Snyder, Logan Stieber, Bo in there, me, Terrell, Reece, and wrestling all those guys.  They helped my confidence so well, even the coaches, Jager, Thatcher and Lou, just made my confidence grow more and more.  And when Tom Ryan talked to me about, we need you to wrestle, and I said I don't think I'm ready.  I was nervous and scared.  I don't think I can do it, and I wrestled in more open tournaments just to see how it goes.  And I started doing pretty well and he pulled me, and I said, I can do this, Coach, I got it.  In the beginning it was a struggle, but once I got the matches under my belt and got rolling it felt good.
THE MODERATOR: Congratulations, Myles Martin, finalist at 174.  Good luck tomorrow night.
MYLES MARTIN: Go Bucks!






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT