BREEDERS' CUP WORLD THOROUGHBRED CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 6, 2010
Garrett Gomez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   ERIC WING: And before we meet with the connections of the Breeders' Cup mile, we're happy to be joined now with Garrett Gomez, who is the winning rider. As you'll recall, in the Breeders' Cup Juvenile Turf aboard Pluck. 
Garrett, it was certainly not just a winning ride for you, but a rather eventful one. Can you walk us through it? Stumble through it, as was the case with Pluck. 
 GARRETT GOMEZ: Yeah. Actually, he stumbled pretty hard his first jump. When he come up, he just -- it took him a couple jumps to kind of recuperate from what happened. You know, I got him to where he was traveling okay, going into the first turn, and then the horse in front of me fell. I had to dodge Anna. She was sliding in right in front of me, and he had to kind of side step her. 
 We want with plan "C" and tried to just make the best of a bad situation and see what we could pick up. I mean, he ended up running a tremendous race. 
 ERIC WING: At the time that you were down to plan "C," not that you would ever give up during the race, but does the thought cross your mind, shoot, we'll be lucky to hit the board now? 
 GARRETT GOMEZ: That's what I'm thinking because after -- you don't know what he actually might have did to himself when he stumbled or how bad he might have stepped on his cord or if it was just a stumble or what. The ground is a little soft, so it's a little hard to make up the ground. I mean, it takes away from the turn of foot. I was giving up a lot of lengths to make up. 
 You know, to have much less the one thing happen, but we had the two things happen, the second one didn't bother us as bad as the first one, but he was able to, you know, get himself back under himself and start moving forward. You know, I mean, I still like the way he was traveling at the half-mile pole. He was moving up good. He was doing things good. I just thought it was going to be too much for him to overcome. 
 ERIC WING: Any questions here in the room or upstairs in the main box for Garrett Gomez, winning Breeders' Cup rider of Pluck? 
 Apparently, we're all set. Garrett, I know you're wearing the colors of Blame there. Good luck with him in the Classic. Congratulations on board your fine ride of Pluck, a very persevering ride in the Breeders' Cup Juvenile Turf.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT