MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 7, 2017
Toto Gana
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Well, two rounds at the Masters, what are you feeling right now? Just how awesome has this experience been for you?
TOTO GANA: I feel really, really good. This experience is amazing, I never been in an experience like that, so I am really, really, really happy.

Q. What's been the best part for you so far?
TOTO GANA: Today on No. 6 I made a chip‑in and people were going clapping and I never feel like that never in my life. So it's been, it's perfect.

Q. So you're staying in the Crow's Nest every night, how has that been staying with Brad and kind of getting to know him and just being a part of this?
TOTO GANA: I just been three days with Brad and it's amazing. The place is amazing. It feels like magic there, upstairs in the middle of the Masters. So it's amazing.

Q. What has coach said about this experience for you and how proud he is of you?
TOTO GANA: Yeah, I'm going to talk with him now, so I don't know, but he's going to be proud of me, I am sure of that. 

Q. Talk about when you first learned to play golf, back in Chile as a little kid, did you ever, was the Masters something that you dreamed about or not?
TOTO GANA: Yeah, of course. All the golfers dream some day to play the Masters. So, no, it is perfect. I am feeling really good right now.

Q. You're not the first countryman to play as an amateur in the Masters. What did you learn from Matias?
TOTO GANA: I learned a lot. He told me about the pressure and the putts and some shots. But that don't care, that doesn't matter, you need to play your golf. 

Q. When you showed up on the first tee, was it even more than you expected?
TOTO GANA: Yeah, I was nervous really nervous. But it's a good feeling. A very good feeling. 

Q. You played really well on the front nine today, didn't you?
TOTO GANA: Yes, I did very, very well.

Q. What was working well for you today out there on that front nine?
TOTO GANA: I feel today like a thrill of all the round, just like enjoy the people, enjoy the place, enjoy every shot. And it was really, really good. 
The second nine I played good, but, I don't know, I was a bit unlucky, some shots went wrong, but that's okay, it's just golf.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT