BIG EAST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 9, 2019
Brian Neal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Providence - 70, Xavier - 62   
BRIAN NEAL: Well, we wanted to come here and play what we hoped was our best basketball to finish the year, and I don't think we did that.  I thought we played with a lot of questions going through our brains and on our faces, and I thought Providence played like they had a lot of answers and was very committed to things, were really on time, and I thought we were second-guessing, and that made us hesitant, and when they were on time, it was just a bad combination.   
 Q.  (Inaudible) her development both character-wise and as a player?  
BRIAN NEAL: It's amazing what you can do with just a little spirit, right?  It's been an awesome story, and she just plays her butt off, and certainly not perfect and makes her share of mistakes, but she sure is fun to watch.   
Her development, she got a little confidence earlier in the year, and she just ran with it, and I wish we could have gotten a few more players to get that spark that she had.  But I think she's going to be a good player in this league for a couple years.   
 Q.  You talked about how you played with a lot of questions and you were second-guessing.  Where were you second-guessing?  
BRIAN NEAL: Well, there's a lot of things.  You know, there's a lot of things like we front the post, and we got stuck behind posts, whether you're big or small.  We got stuck.  So when you're doing things like that, it's obvious.  If we're supposed to fill certain spots, then we weren't there, it's obvious that your players aren't locked in.  So there's a million little things like that.   
I really -- I don't know if it was just the moment of being at the tournament for some of our young guys, you know, maybe that's part of it.  But they have 20 assists, so they make us pay, and I felt like they were really looking for each other, and I felt like we were fighting everything, and as a result of that, we were looking for ourselves too much, and I think that's probably where we just got tied up like a pretzel.   
It felt like in our huddles, I felt like maybe I contributed to that.  But it felt like we were down 50 points sometimes when the game was not over, and we could have made some pushes.  But then we'd have a breakdown and they would make us pay for that, and it just got away there, and we just couldn't get close enough to make them really get nervous.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT