BIG EAST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 3, 2018
Brian Neal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BRIAN NEAL: Didn't see that coming quite the way it played out.  We didn't coach well, we didn't play well, and the result was accordingly.  Any questions that you may have?
Q. This season, lot of young players, tough league, probably the strongest the league has been since realignment.  When you look at some of the successes that you did have over the course of the season beating a really good St. John's team twice, what do you draw from a year like this, even though maybe the record wasn't what you wanted?
BRIAN NEAL: Well, we didn't beat St. John's twice.  No offense, I'm not in a real reflective mood.  We've done some solid things this year, and you could not have hold -- we did not do day one stuff today.  If we were supposed to zig, we zagged, and I'm not sure why that is or what happened there.
I don't know if it was just so many young players in a moment.  I didn't feel like our players were playing quite up to potential, so we had a lot of young kids in the game and it really got away from us.
But we'll regroup after this, and I'm not in a real reflective mood about.  We didn't do anything worth talking about in that regard tonight.
Q. All season you've been well above average in assist-to-shot rate, meaning a lot of your ball movement came from passes.  Was that ball movement just not there today?
BRIAN NEAL: We could not get anything going.  I thought we had some really good looks from the three-point line from people who weren't shooting in the first half.  I just felt like the ball was coming out of our hands really fast.  We just did not have a good tempo.
Seton Hall, in my opinion, was right on point with their pace.  They were making the plays, and we just seemed to be a little bit off for whatever reason.  Then when it got away from us, it really got away.  But I thought we had some good looks.  We were 4 of 16 from the three-point line on the first half.  But then we started, kind of an Achilles heel.  We started getting a little bit trying to make it happen on our own.  So we started then shooting challenge shots, people driving when they should have been passing.  We just got off kilter a little bit, and it looked bad for a little while.
Q. In looking at the stats this season, you really didn't have one person that was really scoring in double figures, a key player for your team.  So who do you expect to kind of step up next year and kind of assist in being that go-to player?
BRIAN NEAL: That was a problem for us all year long in scoring.  When we played, we had to play well as a group, and when we did, we were competitive.  We won some games and we were in some games that maybe people didn't think we should be.  But if we did not play well as a group, we got our tails kicked.
That's kind of what happened tonight.  We just couldn't get it going.  Most teams in this league have two, three players who they know what they're getting most nights, 14, 15, 16 points, something like that.  We didn't have that luxury.  We had to be on point, and tonight you saw what happened when we did.
So moving forward, first of all, we've got a nice recruiting class coming in.  We'll be very young again next year, but hopefully we have some people who are playmakers coming in.  So we'll just build on that, and hopefully some of our young players.  Some of them had, you know, Aaliyah Dunham and A'riana Gray, some of those guys had a good freshman year, so hopefully they'll be ready with this experience under their belt to be more productive next year.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT