BIG EAST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 4, 2017
Brian Neal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Butler - 68, Xavier - 66
BRIAN NEAL: My opening statement would be, I guess, I thought Butler was locked in more for the game.  I did a poor job of having our team ready for the environment that we were going to play in.  I think that they didn't blink throughout the game, and there were a couple of times where we blinked.  I thought our players played really hard and showed a great spirit, but we just couldn't -- I always felt like we were on our heels a little bit too much mentally.  We were trying to force too much, and because we were in that state where we're forcing things, then even when we got good looks, we were not able to make the shots that we should be able to make, and I think we just couldn't get into a good frame of mind, a good rhythm, especially on the offensive end.
Q. What is it about Tori Schickel that makes her so tough to stop?
BRIAN NEAL: She's a great player.  She's got great composure in the low post, and she's very difficult to play one-on-one, which unfortunately was not our game plan but what we did a lot tonight.  She's a -- she's one of the best low post players in our conference, and if you are not on detail, she's going to make you look foolish, and that's the way we look right now.
Q. Just that final sequence, obviously they go one-on-one there to get that 15-footer.  Do you think of that last minute, do anything differently --
BRIAN NEAL: Yeah, calling a time-out would have helped.  I'm coaching 2010, it's 2017.  Should have called time-out and we got plenty of quick hits, and that's -- I was looking for an advantage before their setup, but it was just a poor decision on my part.
Q. What's the off-season hold for you and the group?
BRIAN NEAL: Well, we have a new club, a whole new group coming in.  We've got six signed freshmen and another player or two here coming up.  It's interesting, people look at our record, especially here in the Big East, and it hasn't -- we certainly haven't won like I felt like the quality of play -- and I think our players have never faltered from an emotional standpoint, especially some of our younger players, so that's something that we can build on.
But I, just to be honest with you, felt like we've been playing a play or two short in some situations, so hopefully these new young players can come in, can give us some enthusiasm and kind of fill in some of those gaps there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT