NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: BLACKHAWKS v DUCKS
May 24, 2015
Bruce Boudreau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You said your thought was to keep your foot on the gas.   Do you think you did that as much as you wanted to?  
    COACH BOUDREAU:   I think two minutes later we got a penalty.   It's pretty hard to keep your foot on the gas, then they scored 10 seconds into the power play.   
    Things changed a little bit.   Now you're playing 4‑4.   A little almost conservative than when you have the lead and you're trying to not allow them to play in your zone.   
   
 Q.   Bruce, they scored three in the third last night.   That's as many goals as you've given up in all of your games.   The penalty killing wasn't as good as the previous games.   Do those things concern you?  
    COACH BOUDREAU:   Not really.   I think they were 1‑4 last night in the power play.   To me, they made a great job.   Brad Richards did a great fake, hit Kaner with a one‑timer.   I think the puck was going wide.   It hit Freddie on the pad and went in.   
    Other than that, we killed it in overtime.   We killed it early.   I thought we did a good job of that.   Changed momentum a little bit.   
    But, I mean, when you're playing a good team, you give them four, five chances every night, you're going to get burnt eventually.   You're not going to go 0‑30, 0‑20, whatever it is.   
    We just got to stay out of the box, find ways to get out of the box.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
    COACH BOUDREAU:   They're big.   You'd like to think it's going to go on forever, that you're not going to get scored on.   But sometimes, yeah, you make mistakes.   The puck bounces.   I mean, they made a good play, a great play there from Hossa to Toews.   We blocked a shot that goes right on the tape.   Then they score the power play goal.   The third one, we made a mistake on.   
    Usually we've been pretty good in the playoffs defensively.   We had a blip yesterday.   I mean, the fortunate part for us is we also played very good offensively in the third period and in the first overtime.   We just couldn't score a goal.   
   
 Q.   I know you have a couple of overtime wins in this post‑season.   With the way the last two have turned out, is that a place your team would want to avoid?  
    COACH BOUDREAU:   I'm a pretty positive thinker.   My thoughts are the law of averages are going to catch up and it's our turn next.   All these games have been so close, you have to believe that eventually there might be another overtime.   
    If you go in there thinking, Uh‑oh, we're in trouble, it's an overtime situation, they're real good at it, then you're probably going to lose the game.   
    I think both overtimes that we've had against them, they've had some great chances, we've had some great chances.   It's what makes for a great series.   
    I don't think anybody by any stretch that has seen any of the four games wouldn't say that it was a great series so far.   
   
 Q.   Are you at all concerned or bothered by the disparity in penalties?   
    COACH BOUDREAU:   Well, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Do you want to elaborate?   
    COACH BOUDREAU:   No, no.   
   
 Q.   What did you tell the guys?   When you're having to deal with that on the ice, it's stress time.   
    COACH BOUDREAU:   Just play hard.   I don't want them to change the way they're playing.   It's important they watch their sticks.   Those are flagrant fouls that are easy to call.   We have to check with our legs and not with our sticks.   We've had too many stick infractions that we're not happy as a group with.   
    We can't do anything about calls the other way, but we can do something about us playing the right way.   
   
 Q.   Belief, you've mentioned that several times, this team always believes in themselves.   Did you believe when that three‑goal spurt came, did you believe you were going to win the game?  
    COACH BOUDREAU:   I thought, Okay, we've done that.   We'll hold on, because we have in the past.   But, I mean, they made a great play on the power play, then it was anybody's game for the next, what, 31, 32 minutes.   
   
 Q.   Are we at the point in the series where both teams are getting to be pretty irritated with each other?  
    COACH BOUDREAU:   I think we said the same thing in Calgary at about Game4, there's starting to become a hate for each other.   You can see it on the ice.   
    There's not scrums because both teams know exactly what's at stake all the time.   Between whistles, you can see there's guys starting to get irritated with each other, especially because the matchups have been pretty well the same for the first four games.   
   
 Q.   Did you see the Crawford slash on Beleskey?  
    COACH BOUDREAU:   I think I've seen everything that you can see.   
   
 Q.   Any thoughts?  
    COACH BOUDREAU:   No.   
   
 Q.   Thinking about any lineup changes for tomorrow?  
    COACH BOUDREAU:   I mean, again, we're mulling it over.   I mean, Wagner is an energy guy that would do good in a series like this.   Fleischmann is a good veteran that we've had a great record when he's in the lineup.   
    I mean, these things, even on defense, we're thinking, Okay, is this the time?   But we don't want to make anything rash.   We'll meet again tomorrow morning.   I told the guys to all sleep on it.   
    I mean, except for three goals in the third period, defensively our team has been pretty darn good in the playoffs.   So, I mean, it's not a time to panic, it's a time to believe.   
   
 Q.   Quotes from the Blackhawks indicate one of the things that's irritating them is this supposition that they're going to be worn down by all the contact.   Is that something that the players say during this point of the series?  
    COACH BOUDREAU:   I have no idea if it's a fact or isn't a fact.   We just know we play the same way every day.   If they wear down, great.   If they don't, great.   
    You know, I'm not really worried about the Blackhawks.   I'm worried about our team.   
   
 Q.   In terms of the resiliency both teams have shown, talk about that.   
    COACH BOUDREAU:   I mean, we've done it all year.   I mean, there's not a lot of times we've put games together that haven't been good.   Our resolve is really good, as is I'm sure Chicago's.   
    That's what makes great series.   In the end, two great teams going at it, battling for every inch of ice.   That makes it exciting.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
    COACH BOUDREAU:   I think in the end when you look at it, it would really help.   But, I mean, we played basically four games in four nights right now.   Both teams are going to have to have great resolve going forward.   
   
 Q.   Obviously the Blackhawks are feeling pretty good about themselves this morning.   How do you get back to instilling doubt in them?  
    COACH BOUDREAU:   I think they feel pretty good.   I think they know they're in a series.   I mean, I don't think they think they've had it very easy.   It's our job to continue to make them feel that way.   
   
 Q.   We were asking the players about the physical fatigue, but when you have a series like this where every shift means so much, the battle for the ice is so intense, how do you deal with mental fatigue?   
    COACH BOUDREAU:   I told them to get away from it today.   I said, Go home.   Don't sit on the couch or anything.   Get some movement and exercise in.   But have a good day with your families, not think about the game, then come back tomorrow refreshed, all excited to play Game5 in front of our home fans.   
    Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT