NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: BLACKHAWKS v DUCKS
May 23, 2015
Bruce Boudreau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for coach.   
   
 Q.   Any lineup changes this evening?  
COACH BOUDREAU:   None that I know of (laughter).   
   
 Q.   I feel like you've used, I don't know, maybe close to a half dozen guys on the line next to Getzlaf and Perry.   You've come back Patrick Maroon.   Why does he work there?  
COACH BOUDREAU:   Well, A, he's been playing really well.   B, sometimes during the season, there's moments of inconsistency.   Sometimes he needs to go back into the fourth line, then he gets going again, we move him up.   
We knew all along the best fit was probably him.   But 82 games is a long time.   You got to sometimes bring 'em along.   
   
 Q.   Goaltending a little bit different in this series than in the East series in terms of some guys in the East have blown up a little bit.   Both Andersen and Crawford are really good.   Do you ever sense frustration from your guys that shots aren't going in or is that part of the maturity of this team?  
COACH BOUDREAU:   You know, I haven't heard anything.   Quite frankly, the buzz on the bench or in the room isn't frustration at this stage, it's just 'keep going'.   
I mean, I could think when you're playing a really good goaltender, when it doesn't go in, frustration might be something if you're not winning the game.   But at this stage, we've been doing okay at that.   
Hopefully it doesn't change to frustration.   
   
 Q.   Bruce, NBC pointed out you and Joel had been teammates in New Brunswick a long time ago.   What do you remember about him?   
COACH BOUDREAU:   You know what, we were teammates in New Brunswick, but he was a guy that was called up an awful lot more than me.   We weren't teammates that long.   We were more teammates more one year in Toronto.   
But great player, knew the game really well, and was a good guy.   
   
 Q.   The Hawks have had 10 power play opportunities the last two games.   Have you talked about that that can't continue, made it a point of emphasis with your team?  
COACH BOUDREAU:   We've made it a point of emphasis.   You know eventually you get more than three penalties a game, it ends up biting you.   
We've been treading the water right now.   We know that we have to move our legs a little bit more and we can't take stick penalties in the offensive zone.   
   
 Q.   Bruce, maybe it was in the Calgary series, you said your group was a group that was disappointed the last couple years and were playing like it.   You're in the crux of a good series here.   Do you see some difference in your team based on their lessons from the last couple of seasons?  
COACH BOUDREAU:   Tough question.   
I mean, the lessons are simple:   you don't like to lose, you don't like the feeling after you lose.   To say they're more determined or committed isn't the right answer, even though I think we're more committed and determined, just as Chicago is.   
Last year you lose in Game 7, then you see that team go on and win the Stanley Cup, you know, you get a little antsy, ticked off and everything, especially when you think it could have been you.   
I think that's more of the look from the core of the group.   A lot of guys we didn't have on the team.   
   
 Q.   Coach, Corey was in front of the net in both goals in the last game.   In regards to this league, is he one of the best difference makers in regards to distracting goalies?   When he's there, is that a hidden asset?  
COACH BOUDREAU:   All he's doing is standing outside the blue paint.   I don't know if he's distracting goalies.   He's very good at tipping and he's got very good hands.   
He's a smart guy.   Where do I score goals?   Well, most of the goals are scored right near the blue paint, so that's where he's going.   
I don't think his intention for the most part is to distract goalies.   There he wants to be the scorer, not the distracter.  
   
 Q.   Bob Murray is a guy that doesn't want to seek the limelight or attention.   He's nominated for another GM award.   Talk about his approach.   He's aggressive in trades.   
COACH BOUDREAU:   You know what, he's done a great job.   I don't know how to answer that question because he does it behind closed doors.   
He's done a great job.   And three years, he's been nominated for GM of the Year.   The proof is in the pudding if you look at the young players coming up through the ranks.   He deserves everything he gets.   
Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT