NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: BLACKHAWKS v DUCKS
May 21, 2015
Bruce Boudreau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for coach.   
   
 Q.   Coach, the team's road success throughout the season, how can that help you in providing some confidence about tonight?  
COACH BOUDREAU:   I don't know if it helps us at all.   We're accustomed to playing and being successful on the road.   I think very similar to Chicago.   You go, you do your job, and that's the way we've been.   
It's hard to put a finger on exactly why you're so successful or why you've been successful on the road.   I just know the guys come to play, which is why you win 50‑plus games in a year.   
   
 Q.   Any lineup adjustments?  
COACH BOUDREAU:   Not right now, no.   We'll have a couple guys take warmup, but we don't know if we're putting them in or if we're not putting them in yet.   
   
 Q.   Coach, a lot of talk this time of year about net‑front presence, traffic.   Talk a little bit more about how players get to that point and stay there, how big of a key it is.   
COACH BOUDREAU:   Well, to me, it's where you score the goals.   If you want to score a goal, I'm going to the front of the net.   
I've read stats that 75% of all goals are scored within 75 feet of the blue paint.   If I want to be a goal‑scorer and I want to win games, by hook or by crook, I'm going to get to the front of the net, stand there, see where the puck ends up.  
   
 Q.   Any residual effects today from a six‑period hockey game the other night?   
COACH BOUDREAU:   I could tell you tomorrow.   If I had a crystal ball, I'd be able to tell you.   But I have no idea yet.   
   
 Q.   Last night Mike Milbury on the telecast made a comment about Corey Perry.   Somebody asked, How would you stop Corey Perry.   He said, If we were playing against Corey Perry, I would hurt him in a painful and permanent way.   Your reaction to that?   
COACH BOUDREAU:   You know what, I'm taking the cheap way out, but I don't want to get into anything Mike says.   It's TV.   
But I'm really happy Corey Perry's on my team.   
   
 Q.   All work in Canada stopped today for the Mike Babcock press conference today.   Does the contract raise any eyebrows in the coaching community, what you reckon your net worth is now?   
COACH BOUDREAU:   Oh, Jesus.   I'm happy for Mike, but I'm also really happy being in Anaheim doing what I'm doing.   I don't worry about him.   He's his own guy.   If he's happy, then I'm happy for him.   He's a good guy.   
   
 Q.   Coach, Patrick Kane came into this series on a hot streak.   You have limited his chances for the first two games.   What have you done to try and slow him down?   
COACH BOUDREAU:   I'll tell you exactly what we've done (laughter).   
I mean, there's no slowing him down.   It's just delaying it.   He's a very good hockey player.   He's going to get his chances.   You can't slow him down 100%.   You just got to acknowledge the fact that when he's out there, be aware.   
Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT