NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: BLACKHAWKS v DUCKS
May 20, 2015
Bruce Boudreau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for coach.   
   
 Q.   Can I get your first thoughts after the loss and how it will impact the series.   
COACH BOUDREAU:   Well, as far as my first thoughts about the loss, I thought our guys worked awful hard.   It's too bad for them that they didn't succeed.   
I thought the chances might have been close.   Everything was close.   I mean, faceoffs...   It was two really good teams who didn't want to lose going at it.   
Both teams had an opportunity to win on numerous occasions.   They were the ones that finally did it.   
   
 Q.   I think everyone anticipated a series that could go to the limit.   Did you anticipate there may possibly be a game of that nature somewhere in this series?  
COACH BOUDREAU:   You don't think, Gee, this could go into three or four overtimes.   You never think that.   
Was it a team we were playing that we thought would be nip‑and‑tuck the whole series?   Yeah.   
To me it was a confidence boost, this game.   I mean, yeah, we didn't get the final result we wanted, but for almost six periods, you know, we played really well.   Five‑on‑five, had opportunities.   But I thought we did a really good job.   
To me, that game was a game that I would look and say, Hey, man, we can play with these guys.   That's the way I took it.   That's why I'm excited about getting on the plane and getting back at it.   
   
 Q.   Your only other loss was in an overtime game.   Talk about rebounding.   
COACH BOUDREAU:   We've done it all year.   I would be more surprised if we weren't able to rebound and play a really great game than if it went the other way around.   
I've been with this group for a long time now.   You can see it.   They were, rightfully so, very angry last night.   Not disappointed, but angry.   That's a good thing.   
   
 Q.   Do you consider at all, given your incredible depth, of inserting another player or two for Game3?  
COACH BOUDREAU:   It's a good question.   We've had initial discussions in the coaching staff about it.   It's possible because we think we've got a lot of good players that aren't playing.   
But we'll have to talk about it more.   
   
 Q.   If it is a war of attrition, this series, do you believe that favors you and this team?   
COACH BOUDREAU:   You know, I wouldn't say that because the guys that play the big minutes for them are so used to playing the big minutes.   This is not a new thing for those guys.   
So, I mean, if it was a team that hadn't gone through the wars that Chicago's gone through, I'd say, yeah, we'll take that battle anytime.   
But I think they're well‑equipped for it.   They know what's at stake all the time.   I wouldn't say it's an advantage for us.   
   
 Q.   Bruce, is there any different mindset at all now going on the road even as opposed to the first two rounds where you've maintained the series lead throughout?  
COACH BOUDREAU:   I think the mindset's the same.   Just keep pushing forward, pushing forward, going as hard as we can.   They've got the last change, that will be the biggest difference, the home crowd.   That will be the biggest difference.   
But I think the last two years we've won more road games than any team in the league.   So we'll take our chances.   
   
 Q.   The way Crawford played last night, the way he's played since his early struggles, is there any sense you have a tough customer there now that you're dealing with?  
COACH BOUDREAU:   He's won a Stanley Cup.   He knows what it's all about.   He knows how to dig deep.   
I don't think he's going to get rattled anytime soon.   He's going to persevere and go through, as is their guy.   
   
 Q.   Are all the guys okay?   Freddie was taking some fluids after the game.   
COACH BOUDREAU:   They're tired, but they're good.   They're ready to go.   
   
 Q.   How did you deal with that in between periods or afterwards, anyone requiring IVs, supplementary type things?  
COACH BOUDREAU:   You know what, just the normal stuff.   Drink a lot of fluids, electrolytes.   I'm not a doctor.   They were cramping up a little bit, then they'd come back after they got something to drink and they were fine.   
We made it through.   I think all the guys are ready to go again.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, coach.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT