NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: BLACKHAWKS v DUCKS
May 19, 2015
Bruce Boudreau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for coach.   
   
 Q.   Do you go with a 'If it's not broke, don't fix it' with the lineup?  
COACH BOUDREAU:   I think we'll keep the same lineup for tonight.   
   
 Q.   When you think about the major adjustment that Chicago can make, or you're expecting them to make, what is that?   
COACH BOUDREAU:   You know what, I don't know what adjustments they're going to make.   I worry about our team, playing the way we play.   
I mean, we've looked at all their games, an awful lot of their games, from the whole course of the year.   They're not going to make any drastic changes because I think what they do works.   
So hopefully we'll get better in the things we didn't do well in the last game.   We are who we are.   Our DNA is not changing.   We'll play hopefully better, but basically the same way.   
   
 Q.   Bruce, I know we've talked a lot about Freddie and his play.   What do you think it's meant to your team and to yourself that you've had one guy carry the ball here?  
COACH BOUDREAU:   I think anytime you have that, A, the team has an awful lot of confidence in that particular player.   When the team has confidence in that player, they know they can afford to take chances that they don't normally take, that they've got somebody behind them.   
When you don't have that confidence, boy, you play a little bit more safer and it usually ends up hurting you even more.   
   
 Q.   As far as the lack of playoff experience for Freddie coming into this series, the injury a year ago, was there ever any concern about his ability to handle this stage?  
COACH BOUDREAU:   I think at the beginning.   We're talking end of March, April, we didn't really know at that time if he was going to be able to handle it or not handle it.   
Fortunately for us, or unfortunately, Gibby got hurt in early April and Freddie ran with it a little bit.   He's gotten better and better and better.   I think it's taken the worry out of Freddie's game and it's taken the worry from us about him being able to handle playoff pressure.   
Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT