NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: BLACKHAWKS v DUCKS
May 30, 2015
Bruce Boudreau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for coach.  
   
 Q.   Bruce, I wondered, early start to the day, but after you woke up, when you realized it was Game 7, what was your first reaction to how good a day and night this could be?  
COACH BOUDREAU:   Well, we're glad it was here.   That's one thing.   But we've known Game 7 was on the horizon since Thursday or Wednesday.   
I think everybody on both teams are going to be excited to play.   It's a fun time, you know.   I think everybody that's a really top‑notch player wants it on their shoulders.   They want to be the difference‑makers on both teams.   
It's going to be a fun game, I hope.   
   
 Q.   Bruce, do you read your team more in a situation like this, their mannerisms, look at players in the morning?   If so, what did you see?  
COACH BOUDREAU:   I'm trying not to read anything into it.   Whether a guy makes a bad pass in the pregame skate, I'm going, It all counts at 5:00.   It doesn't count now.   
I know they'll be ready.   Man, who couldn't be ready for this game?   Especially, it's the seventh game against the same team.   There's not a lot of changing going on.   
We'll just be ready and they'll be ready, let's go at it.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
COACH BOUDREAU:   Well, I think they're in the game mode.   But they're loose at the same time.   They were joking around in the room when you guys left and before you guys got there.   
They know what's at stake.   Smart guys.   
   
 Q.   Bruce, you talked a little bit yesterday about how important faceoffs can be for possession and everything else.   Especially when you have the last change, do you have an idea of who's against who skill‑wise and do you play towards that, or does that not factor into it?  
COACH BOUDREAU:   I know who's good and who struggles, whether it's against any one of their players in particular, doesn't really matter.   If we've got a guy struggling in his own zone, he won't be taking faceoffs in his own zone.   Whether it's against any forward or centerman.   
We know who's had success.   We know who's on the right side, the left side, who's better where.   I think we're pretty in tune with all of those things.   
The only times it gets to bite you is on an icing.   
   
 Q.   Tomas coming into the lineup tonight, can you say whether that's going to happen?  
COACH BOUDREAU:   There's a real good chance that he's in, okay?   I just think an experienced guy, he's been through these wars, he's played in Game 7s, he's been in championship games.   Like I said, when I was with Hershey, it was a while ago, but he was the MVP in the playoffs.   So he knows what to do in these situations.   
Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT