NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: BLACKHAWKS v DUCKS
May 27, 2015
Bruce Boudreau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for coach. 

Q.   Everyone in that room seems to be not too concerned that it was not a great night for Freddie.   What is your sense about him?
COACH BOUDREAU:   During the course of the season, if he's had a bad game, the next game's been really good. 
I have no qualms about Freddie.   The lucky thing is he didn't play as well as he would have liked to and we won.   Usually when he doesn't play as well as he would like to, we don't have success. 
I like the fact he's going back in.   We trust him.   He's going to play real good tonight. 

Q.   Looks like the Blackhawks have Rundblad back in.   He played one game in the last eight weeks.   Do you target a guy like that, test him, or just do what you do?
COACH BOUDREAU:   We just do what we do.   I don't think you can sit there and make the guys focus on one individual, unless it's Toews or Kane pretty well. 
No, we'll just play how we play and hopefully it works. 

Q.   What do you say to your team as you enter this elimination game?   Anything different than what you said in the past?
COACH BOUDREAU:   No, I don't think so.   I mean, I know that both teams are going to work extremely hard.   We just want to make sure we work hard properly, not use wasted energy, things of that nature. 
We played them five times now.   There's not going to be a lot of surprises thrown at you.   I mean, they might come out a little harder than they did in the last game as we anticipate because they're at home, because we had a 3‑0 lead, but I think we know how they're going to play.   Hopefully we can do what we do and it comes up successful. 

Q.   Bruce, curious if you watched the Tampa game yesterday.   Obviously they didn't fare well with a chance to finish.   Do you mention that at all to your team? 
COACH BOUDREAU:   I have.   I have.   I mean, but I just talked about it briefly.   I didn't want to focus on the Tampa series.   I think the series has been a little different than that. 
You can always use history as a good example for a lot of things.   One is, Don't think just because you've got three that it automatically means you're getting four. 

Q.   Bruce, for all that has happened in this series, are you kind of surprised that the team that has scored first has won every game?
COACH BOUDREAU:   I think that's more coincidental than anything because I think the lead has changed hands a couple times. 
But when you score first, it gives you a little bit more jump.   You know the other team has to get two to win.   It's something that playing with the lead is a real important thing. 
We didn't do a real good job with it as of late.   But for the most part, when we had a lead, it was money.   We'll take a lead at any time we can get it at any point in this game.

Q.   Bruce, you talked about learning from history.   What do you learn from being in a position to clinch last year and not doing it?
COACH BOUDREAU:   Well, I mean, if you go over last year's game, it was a 2‑1 game that I think L.A. won.   I thought we played a really good game.   We played a really good road game.   It should have actually been an overtime game.   But it wasn't. 
When two teams are playing at their best, it's usually some break or bounce that is the difference in the game.   Last year that was the difference. 
I think Game 6 against Detroit the previous year, they won in overtime where they scored late to tie it up. 
I mean, I don't think we want to play any different.   We just want a different result. 

Q.   Are the lessons you learned from that game, are there things you can tangibly do different to have a different outcome?   How much time did you spend between the end of that L.A. series and now thinking about what happened in that series?
COACH BOUDREAU:   You think it till training camp, you know.   The could have, would have, should have, all those things.   I haven't thought about it since training camp.   That series is over. 
Maybe every time you played L.A., you played with a little more gumption to beat them.   But, you know, that's in the past.   This is a new group.   I don't bring that up with the new group. 
I mean, the guys that played there in the past know what the deal is.   This is a new situation and we want to treat it that way. 
Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT