BIG EAST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 8, 2000
Calvin Bowman
Gale Catlett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







COACH CATLETT: John, want to trade jobs? Well, my first comment would be he hit a great
shot. We thought we had it covered pretty well. What we were trying to do, he doubled
down, shoots the three, knocks it dead. 2.2, knocks it out of your hand. Two or three
games ago at Connecticut we had 3.8 on the clock, we were up one, El-Amin goes up and gets
it in. I'm getting tired of those. I don't want to see any more of those. We had some
opportunities. I was very disappointed in our last time up that we didn't get a better
shot when the score was tied 67-67. We had a play set for Goree and for Armstead, our two
best players. Goree pops open, couldn't get the ball over to him. Armstead comes over a
little bit covered. We have an option play to go to the end, we didn't get to it. Gharun
played good defense. We took a very poor shot. I was greatly disappointed because if you
get up there a basket, sometimes it changes the game. There was about seven or eight
seconds' difference in the shot clock and we wanted to try to -- with the score tied --
get it as close to that as we could. If I had it to do over again, we might go ahead play,
you don't know. But if you go ahead play, miss it, they have plenty of time to come down
and set up a second shot. Maybe I'm wrong. Maybe I'm wrong as a coach. I'm getting tired
of these guys going the length of the court and making shots. He knocked a heck of a shot
there. That's the way it goes.

Q. Did you warn them about him, about what El-Amin did to you the last time?

COACH CATLETT: I told them, "Let him shoot."

Q. From the outside, were you concerned that he was going to get in like El-Amin did
because Goree dropped back off of him?

COACH CATLETT: We changed defense to be different than what El-Amin's was. The last
time we played him man-to-man, this time we played him zone-trap, double-team and never
zone-trap down the sidelines. We were supposed to get that double down the sidelines,
under heavy orders to do that. He dribbles down, backs us down and shoots one three right
in our face there. We did not want any penetration. They had more time on the clock than
last time. I didn't think of El-Amin. I was thinking we're in our two-two press, we played
zone the entire day, we played zone two other times we've played Georgetown. (Inaudible.)
Try to get him a double-team. Didn't work. We didn't get the double-team. He made a nice
shot. That was a totally different defense, supposedly, than it was against El-Amin.
Because I said if it ever happens again, I'm going to line up in the zone and we're going
to make him get through it. And they had a few more seconds to get through it. Quite
honestly, he could walk it down a little bit differently. 6.8 or 6.2 is quite a bit of
time.

Q. Game was low turnovers, both sides. Were you happy that it was slow-paced like that
or would you rather it have been more?

COACH CATLETT: I'm very pleased that we had 21 assists and 8 turnovers. That's probably
our best of the year. But I wasn't very pleased with our 41.9 shooting in the second half,
and I wasn't very pleased with being outrebounded 39-32 and 18 offensive boards. The game
was won on the offensive boards. Georgetown's offensive rebounding beat us. If you said,
"Coach, pick one thing in the game," Georgetown's offensive rebounding beat West
Virginia today. We didn't block off and they got second shots and hurt us. We shoot better
than they do. We have more turnovers than they do. We have eight assists (inaudible)
turnovers -- more assists, I should say. We shoot the ball from the freethrow line.
(Inaudible.) We said before the game, you have stop the penetration, and you got to block
him off the board. That will be the key. We said during the game, you don't have a chance
unless you block off the board. There's not a lot more I could do as a coach.

Q. Obviously, you all had an odd year this year. How does this fit in with the sequence
of events?

CALVIN BOWMAN: We've been playing as a team all year. At the UConn game, we had a
chance to win down the stretch and this is a repeat, so we're kind of disappointed. We
have to stay together as a team and give everything out on the court. And we can't be mad
at each other.

Q. What was it like coming back to the area, playing in front of family and friends?

CALVIN BOWMAN: It was fun but, you know, I wanted to win. Friends and family come out
and watch the game, it was fun to play in the Garden again. But, you know, I'd rather the
win.

Q. How did you feel like you performed?

CALVIN BOWMAN: I feel -- I feel like I played all right. If I could take back my game,
the way I played, for a win, I'd do that.

Q. Coach, you want to make a case for the NIT now?

COACH CATLETT: Not really. I haven't thought about it. Still in mourning. Not Alonzo,
but mourning because of the game. What happens, happens. But we did play the 29 schedule
in the country, toughest schedule. We did play all road games. RPI was -- you know what
the last RPI was, didn't you, before today, 70-something?

Q. Seventy-seven on Sunday but I think you went down after that.

COACH CATLETT: The kids have done a good job. We've won some games and we've lost a few
games. But I don't have any control over that. It would be a nice reward for the kids if
it happened because -- the NIT, I was on their preseason committee for a couple years with
Jeff Powers (phonetic spelling) and those guys. They're not like the NCAA; they do things
differently. Their parameters are different, which I'm happy to say I think are pretty
good. They take into consideration a lot of different things the NCAA doesn't consider.
I'm just going to guess, because of being in the Big East Conference and having a win
regular season and being a No. 8 seed, No. 8 seed in this tournament, it's a pretty
significant achievement for a team that was picked 11th in the beginning of the season and
playing all road games. I'm going to take a guess that the Powers-that-Be, not Jack, but
the Powers-that-Be would take that into consideration. I'm going to guess off the top of
my head that it would be heavily considered. It would be very nice. But if it doesn't
happen, that's the way life goes. We have no control over that.

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT