U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 9, 2011
Leta Lindley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. So even par round, Round 2. 
 LETA LINDLEY: Yes.

 Q. Can you take me through it?
 LETA LINDLEY: I just hit it solid, I know that. Which I have to do out here because is a big golf course out here at 7,000 yards. I'm probably one of the shortest players out here on the tour. 
 I hit a lot of woods. I had I knew I had to hit the ball solidly to compete out here, so I'm pleased. I had three birdies on my back side, which was the front nine. I knew it was gonna be a long day, and try to pace myself and just seeing good shots, seeing positive, good shots in my head. 
 So it's been working so far.

 Q. Any there birdie in particular? I saw you were 2-over through 9, and then turned it around and got it back to even. 
 LETA LINDLEY: Well, I birdied No. 2, which they had moved the tee up. Even still I laid up with a 5-wood, and everybody else is going for it in drivers. I'm like, I'm not going to get there anyway, so to pitch it up there to about five feet and make it felt really good. 
 And then I forget the other ones. Birdieing 8 felt really good, too. It's not a visually pleasing hole, and I hit a really solid 6-iron up there. That put a smile on my face, for sure.

 Q. What's your game plan out there? Is there anything in particular you're focusing on?
 LETA LINDLEY: Honestly, it's more just mental and trying to stay with it. Just like when I had to come back and play one hole after my first round, come back in the morning and I had to play 18, not the hole that I wanted to start with. 
 And trying not to say, Okay, it's okay to bogey it, not just settle for a bogey. To really push and push myself and to stay in it and to be hungry and to want it. 
 So that's what I really tried to do out here today, especially starting on the back nine. You know, 11's a really big hole for me, and to make par on that, that felt awesome. To me, that was like making birdie.

 Q. You'll take as much of the altitude as you can, right?
 LETA LINDLEY: I know. It's just trying to build off of each good thing and using that momentum and staying hungry and staying focused and not to be complacent. 
 I think it's easy to do. You don't want to rest. You can't rest. It's the U.S. Open. You have to stay focused and there are a lot of good scores out there.

 Q. How do you feel about heading into the final two rounds?
 LETA LINDLEY: I'm thrilled to be playing on the weekend. This was the site of my very first U.S. Open, and I finished fifth here in '95. 
 So, you know, I had debated whether I was even going to try to qualify for this Open. I swore I would not go there as a qualifier.

 Q. Where did you qualifier?
 LETA LINDLEY: In Woodmont, Maryland. I just -- because this place was special to me and it was my first Open, I decided to go and try. So here I am.

 Q. It's a beautiful golf course. 
 LETA LINDLEY: It is. It is. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT