LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 24, 2008
Leta Lindley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Leta, thanks for coming in and joining us three. Great rounds out there, and you're tied for third just one stroke back heading into tomorrow's final round. Can you just kind of talk about the way you have played the last couple days and being in this position?   
 LETA LINDLEY: Well I guess it's -- I'm just really excited to be here. It's been a long time. I haven't been in this interview room in-- I don't know it's been, a number of years, a few children ago, I guess. (Laughing.)  
 It's nice to be here, nice to be playing well. I'm really excited to, you know, be in position to win my first tournament. And, you know, so far I've stuck to my game plan which is to be really committed over every shot and see what I want to do versus what I don't want to do. And so it's paid off so far. And that's going to be my goal tomorrow.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Let's go over the birdies and bogeys. The 4, 5 and 6, the three birdies.  
 LETA LINDLEY: I think it's 5, 6 and 7. That's what I have circled.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Okay.  
 LETA LINDLEY: 5, hit just in front in 2 and chipped up to about 4 feet and made that for birdie. Then on 6 I had 125 yards to the pin. I hit an 8-iron probably about 7 or 8 feet, and made a really tricky right-to-left slider for birdie. Am I right, that was 5 and 6? 4 was 183 yards to the pin, and I hit a pitching wedge to above the hole in about 10 feet for birdie.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: And the only bogey on 16.  
 LETA LINDLEY: My only bogey, 16, that nasty little hole. I hit my drive in the left rough just barely in the rough which you kind of have to hug that left side especially with the pin on the right. I had 95 yards to the pin, and I hit like a three-quarter pitching wedge and it came up just short to the rough. And I got a little aggressive with my chip and missed about a 4-footer that was above the hole.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: All right. Questions for Leta?  
  
  Q. Leta, the putt you had there to save par on number 18 was probably about the same distance as the one you missed on 16. Feeling any pressure at that point?  
 LETA LINDLEY: I don't any -- it was just that the one on -- it was a slider, you know, on 16. That was just a really tough putt. When you are playing outside the hole and you can't be very aggressive with it versus the one on 18 which I left below the hole up-hill and I could be much more aggressive with it. That was just the difference.  
  
  Q. You said this has been a long time since you've been back in the interview room. How is it going to feel tomorrow being one of the last pairs to go out?  
 LETA LINDLEY: Well I'm excited. I was kind of in a similar position earlier this year when we played in Tulsa. I played with Lorena the last day and I put myself in nice position to have a great tournament, possibly win. So I think I really learned a lot that last round. And coming down the stretch I, you know, had some errant shots, and, like I said, I think I was looking more what I didn't want to do versus what I wanted to do. So that was really my goal this week, was, you know, when I see my shot exactly how I want to hit it, I'm going to swing much better versus than when you say I don't want to hit it right, or I don't want to hit it left.   
 So I've really seen a big impact this week from maybe when I played the second round at Sybase after shooting 3-under in the first round, and I came back with a node, an 80. So that's what I took away from that event.  
  
  Q. How much has the game changed from when you first started?  
 LETA LINDLEY: Oh my gosh, leaps and bounds. I feel like I grew up out here. When I came out I felt like -- not that I am a long hitter now, but I hit it even shorter then. I can remember going around a golf course and I was lucky if I hit five greens a round. So, obviously, I got a lot of short game practice, but my ball practice has improved so much especially in the last two years.   
 My husband and I have worked really, really hard, and I feel that's most improved. And I think my stats show that.  
  
  Q. You mentioned playing paired with Lorena. The fact that she's not here and Annika Sorenstam isn't here, does it feel like it kind of opens the field where maybe you can not necessarily sneak in, but get a win?  
 LETA LINDLEY: You know what, there's lots of great players here. And, you know, regardless of whether Annika or Lorena are here, I know I'm going on have to play some great awesome golf tomorrow, make a lot of birdies.   
 I'm not sure who is. Let's see, Erica is up there, and who else?   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Erica and JJ.  
 LETA LINDLEY: Oh my gosh. So I got to play well tomorrow. You can't ever relax. Just because Annika and Lorena aren't here doesn't mean you can relax.  
  
  Q. How many Corning Classics have you played?   
 LETA LINDLEY: I'm not sure. I feel like I've been to a lot of them. I may have missed a few due to maternity, and I might have taken one or two off.   
 But it is one of my favorite stops on the Tour. I like coming here. The volunteers are great. I don't know, it is just a really nice relaxed feel. My husband and I looked forward to this week.  
  
  Q. Is this a good place for your first win?   
 LETA LINDLEY: Absolutely. Anyplace is a good place for my first win, but that could be extra sweet for sure. I like coming here.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: One last question.  
  
  Q. Do you like the fact that you are one shot off the lead and kind of coming from behind?  
 LETA LINDLEY: I do. Because then it makes me think I have to be aggressive versus, you know, maybe being a couple shots ahead and then maybe playing protective. So my mindset tomorrow will be definitely to be aggressive and chasing and trying to make as many birdies as I can.  
  
  Q. Being in this position, the course hasn't given up a lot of big scores. Will you be scoreboard watching and adjusting your game by what the scoreboard shows?  
 LETA LINDLEY: I don't know. I'm going to just go out and I'm going stick to my plan of seeing my shot and, you know, going for the pins. And I guess when we're coming down the stretch, if my husband tells me I have a five-shot lead, that might change the way I play 18. I'll kick it down the fairway or something. But I'll wait until we cross that bridge.  
  
  Q. Is your husband your caddie, by the way?  
 LETA LINDLEY: He is. Yes, he caddies for me.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Leta, thanks for your time. Great couple rounds out there. We'll see you tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT