CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: ALABAMA VS OKLAHOMA
December 26, 2018
Austin Seibert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Does it feel like it's been four years?  
AUSTIN SEIBERT: Yeah, I felt like I've been here for four years, but it's been worth it, and it's gone fast.   
 Q.  This is your first bowl experience and now you're back; is that sort of interesting?  
AUSTIN SEIBERT: Yeah, it's really cool.   
 Q.  What has the last month been like around the team as you guys have gotten ready?  
AUSTIN SEIBERT: It's like it's always been, I guess, a lot of working, working hard, working out, practicing, doing a lot of little things.   
 Q.  Murray said that he's watched the film of the Rose Bowl 100 times, studied it a lot.  What is it like?  How surreal is it to be back in the exact same position you were last year?  
AUSTIN SEIBERT: I wouldn't say it's surreal.  You come to Oklahoma to come to places like this and to win games.  I mean, as soon as that game was over, our goal was to get back here, and that continued throughout the season until we got back here.   
 Q.  Do you ever sort of marvel at the fact that you were able to do all three jobs all four years?  I know this is what you expected, but it's just not done very often.  
AUSTIN SEIBERT: Yeah, I haven't really -- my goal is to help us win, and if me doing all three is the best thing for the team, then that's what I'm going to do, and I've done that my whole life.  So I don't think it's really been -- hasn't really hit me that I do all three.  Maybe in the future, but I've just held myself to that standard, so I'm used to it.   
 Q.  You said you've done it your whole life.  Most kickers probably have until they get to college.  Why do other guys have trouble doing all three?  What makes it so hard?  
AUSTIN SEIBERT: Work ethic, if I'm being honest.   
 Q.  Is that what it is?  
AUSTIN SEIBERT: Yeah, if you take my work ethic and you compare it to another guy who's trying to do all three, you'll find the difference right there.  That's what I think, and I'm not trying to be --   
 Q.  No, I know.  
AUSTIN SEIBERT: Cocky or anything like that, but work ethic goes a long way, and I think that's what puts me over the top of other guys.   
 Q.  Is that just in terms of guys just decided to focus on one thing and they don't want to have to mess with -- how much does it change, kicking as a punter, kicking as a kickoff guy?  It doesn't seem like it would be that different.  Can you sort of explain that?  
AUSTIN SEIBERT: Yeah, so to give, I guess, an idea of it, I don't have enough time in practice to practice for all three, so like all the drills and stuff I will do before practice in the weight room.  I'll go in our little turf section and I'll do my technique deals to get some of those knocked out.  I'll stretch before for 45 minutes, things like that.  So I'm always doing something because if you're not getting better you're getting worse, so I'm trying to improve my flexibility, improve my mental aspect of football and then all the tedious things that guys usually don't want to do.  I mean, I don't want to do them, either, but I force myself to.   
 Q.  So I understand, so most guys have a chance to do all the things that they need to do for one thing in practice, but you're doing three things --  
AUSTIN SEIBERT: Right.   
 Q.  So that's what you're saying?  
AUSTIN SEIBERT: Yeah, and we've broken it down to where I get like a field goal day, a field goal / punt day, a field goal / kickoff day, things like that, and then on my off days is when I really hammer the drills.  I won't touch a football, I'll do all the little things.   
 Q.  What drills do you do?  
AUSTIN SEIBERT: Just repeat my steps, doing hash work, flexibility, punt drops, punt steps, kickoff steps.   
 Q.  Without footballs?  
AUSTIN SEIBERT: Without footballs.  Yeah, there's a lot you can do.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT