STANFORD UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 29, 2018
David Shaw
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Notre Dame - 38, Stanford - 17
DAVID SHAW: First of all, Notre Dame is a very, very good football team.  We knew that going in.  We knew they were big and physical on the defensive line, athletic at linebacker and defensive back.  Offensively they're big up front.  They have multiple good running backs, and a quarterback right now that's outstanding.
The quarterback has got a quick release.  He's got great feet.  He's athletic enough to get himself out of trouble.  We had him in trouble a couple times and didn't bring him down.  Quarterbacks like this, if you don't bring them down, they can get 1st downs with their legs, they can get 1st downs with their arms.  We've got to run the ball better.  Got to look at a lot of things we need to do.  We've got to run the ball better, and we've got to be able to stop the run.  These are pretty straightforward things that we take a lot of pride in.  We didn't do that tonight.
Critical part of the game was the end of the first half, and take full credit for that.  Great opportunity for us to go down and score.  Took a chance on a 3rd down.  Shouldn't have done it.  Should have gotten in position to get points, like we always do.  It was my fault.  Tried to do something we shouldn't have done.  Great opportunity for us to get points before the half is over, hopefully run a little bit more clock and go into the halftime ahead.  Instead, gave the ball back to them, and they went down and scored on us.
I do not have an update on Bryce Love's health.
Questions?
Q. What was the most disappointing thing about your offense in this game?
DAVID SHAW: I don't have an answer for you.  Next question.
Q. Well, what can you do at this point to get more out of your offensive line?
DAVID SHAW: It's not just the offensive line.  You run the ball, it takes all 11 guys, from the quarterback getting to the right play to everybody staying on their blocks, tight ends, running backs reading it, tight ends doing their jobs.  So it's a whole group.
Q. Would you say Walker's battling through at this point?
DAVID SHAW: I don't know what you mean by that.
Q. Just from his play, how would you assess how he's been doing so far?
DAVID SHAW: I think he's been good.  I think he's been good this whole year.  Had a health scare with him a couple weeks ago, but he's been healthy and feeling pretty good.  Tonight we got to a loud stadium against a very, very good football team.  They beat us with speed around the edge.  They beat us with games and stunts.  I don't think any of us did a good job in particular in the run or pass game tonight.
Q. You had seven penalties for 50 yards.  It seemed like more than that.  I don't know how it looked like to you, but did you feel that there was -- was it technique?  What was causing the problems?
DAVID SHAW: Yeah, poor technique, multiple times.  We had to battle against an athletic defense in a loud stadium, especially on 3rd down, but the crowd was pretty loud, you're going to get off a split second later than those guys, and we can't hold them.
Q. J.J. has been really good in the two-minute drill all season long.  Was that part of the rationale behind going up tempo end of the first half there?
DAVID SHAW: Yeah, well, outside of three minutes I believe we moved the ball really well.  We got past midfield, got to a 3rd down, should have positioned ourselves for points.  I didn't do that.  Should have but didn't.  I usually do.  And it cost us.
Q. It was Dexter Williams' first game and obviously a pretty good one, but how much of an impact do you think he made from where they were the first four games adding to the rushing game tonight?
DAVID SHAW: I think they've got a lot of good backs, but he's got good quickness, runs hard, runs physically and runs through tackles.  Yeah, I think he and the quarterback made huge plays tonight.
Q. When you look at your offensive and defensive lines, how much of a gap between where they are right now and where Notre Dame is do you think can be made up as the season goes on?
DAVID SHAW: That is a question, isn't it.  I don't have an answer.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT