ROSE BOWL GAME: OREGON VS WISCONSIN
December 29, 2019
Johnny Johnson III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. All the fun out of the way now, it's all business from here on out. What was practice like yesterday, the first practice?
JOHNNY JOHNSON III: Just establishing our physicality, getting back in the way of hitting and playing physical and being electric.
Q. Wisconsin is a very physical team. How much are you preparing for that, maybe more so than some of the other teams you've played?
JOHNNY JOHNSON III: We're a very physical team. So we're just playing to our standard and playing how we should play and worrying about us.
Q. What are the things that you guys had success with and (indiscernible) big explosive plays, you guys preparing for that (indiscernible) to use those long balls to keep them on the field?
JOHNNY JOHNSON III: Most definitely. We definitely want to stretch the field, but also run the ball hard and just execute.
Q. As a receiver, how important is it for you not just to be ready to catch the ball, but also set the block if you need to for the running back?
JOHNNY JOHNSON III: It's very important. We emphasize that a lot every day, our running backs we can spring big plays.
Q. Is there some sort of, you don't have to share it actually, but can you share there are some wrinkles potentially that you're working on for Wisconsin?
JOHNNY JOHNSON III: I mean, I can't really say nothing in particular. We're practicing hard.
Q. One of the huge changes from the beginning of the season is you did not know that Coach Arroyo was moving on to UNLV. How has that affected how practices are run or anything like that?
JOHNNY JOHNSON III: Nothing has changed. We're happy he has an opportunity to take over a program. He's preparing hard for this team and he's given us the best chance we can to win this game.
Q. Do you feel like you guys (indiscernible)?
JOHNNY JOHNSON III: Most definitely.
Q. What works for you so well in big situations (indiscernible)?
JOHNNY JOHNSON III: I think it's just the connection we formed over the long period of time we've played together and all the work we've put in the offseason. I think that's put a big impact on what we do this year and all the success we have.
Q. When (indiscernible) him on the field, what is it that stands out to you about how he plays and what he can do?
JOHNNY JOHNSON III: Just some of the unbelievable plays he can make, making something out of that sometimes and helping us lead us to the end zone.
Q. (Inaudible)?
JOHNNY JOHNSON III: He's a real random dude. He's a real off-the-wall big kid.
Q. What do you think you guys can do offensively against defenses? (Indiscernible) most of the season (indiscernible)?
JOHNNY JOHNSON III: Just play physical and continue to play hard for four quarters and maybe more. That's what we've got to do.
Q. Feel like you've really stepped up your game this year. How do you think you've improved?
JOHNNY JOHNSON III: Just being consistent on a day-to-day basis, getting better at the little things throughout all 13 weeks of the season. I think that's something (indiscernible) successful.
Q. Coach Arroyo is leaving the team, being a head coach. Does that make a difference to you at all?
JOHNNY JOHNSON III: No, we're happy that he's leading another program, but he's putting all he can forward to help us win this game, and we're excited.
Q. You've got -- Justin Herbert is your quarterback obviously, but people don't know much about Tyler Shough. Talk about Tyler?
JOHNNY JOHNSON III: He brings a lot of enthusiasm. He's a great player. I think he can do a great job leading this team. And he has a great relationship with a lot of dudes on the team. I think he'll be a great leader for the team.
Q. You're playing Wisconsin in the Rose Bowl. What have you seen of that team on film?
JOHNNY JOHNSON III: Real physical team. They play really hard and they're a great team.
Q. When you watch them, do they remind of you any other team you've played this year?
JOHNNY JOHNSON III: Not in particular. They're different.
Q. Now, the offensive line, we've been talking to those guys this year they've been very good. Describe as a wide receiver what they do, because they don't block in front of you, but you know they're helping you out.
JOHNNY JOHNSON III: They do a great job giving Justin time. Without them we wouldn't even be able to get the job. They're doing a great job in the pass game and in the run game. I'm proud of them and how they played this whole year.
Q. How about the rest of your wide receiver group? There's a lot of talent?
JOHNNY JOHNSON III: I think Juwan Johnson has done a great job making big plays when we needed them in big situations. And Jaylon Redd has done a great job making something out of nothing the entire season. Guys are doing a great job making plays for us as well.
Q. How do you think has Justin handled the NFL (indiscernible)?
JOHNNY JOHNSON III: I don't think he's worried about it, to be honest. I think he's really focused on his team and getting us to win championships, and that's all his focus is on.
Q. Talking about, really you never had the thought of sitting out a bowl game like this. (Inaudible) everybody wanted to play this game?
JOHNNY JOHNSON III: Most definitely. Our goals are bigger than personal goals as a whole team. I think all the dudes are on the same page.
Q. (Indiscernible) is going to be going to an NFL locker room. What would be your advice to the receivers he is going to play with in terms of how to build up a relationship?
JOHNNY JOHNSON III: I think it's just being himself. Just be who he is. Don't try and be other people or act in a certain way. Just be who he is. He's a great guy.
Q. What about for guys who are trying to get to know him, what advice?
JOHNNY JOHNSON III: For them? I don't know. I don't know. I just be myself around him.
Q. What have you seen specifically in the secondary of Wisconsin?
JOHNNY JOHNSON III: A very physical group. They fly around and get to the football. I'm excited to see what we can do against them.
Q. They have a pretty high number of PBUs across the whole defense, probably more than -- just the number of players more than anybody you guys have faced. Do you see that on film, just it doesn't matter who's out there?
JOHNNY JOHNSON III: I know they play hard and they try to get around the football. They've done a great job this year and I'm excited for the opportunity.
Q. Talking about Justin for a second, this would be the last game, (inaudible) that caliber?
JOHNNY JOHNSON III: It's been great. It's been exciting. It's been fun. It's not every day you get to have a quarterback like this on your side. So I'm just grateful.
Q. After this game, fans certainly Tyler will be that guy. You see him in practice. (Inaudible). What does he bring to the table?
JOHNNY JOHNSON III: I think he brings a big time leadership role. He has a good relationship with a lot of guys on this team. I think he can definitely step up and lead his team to win championships. I see a dude that will continue to work hard day in, day out.
Q. Jevon and Thomas said that he has some swagger and presence about him. A lot of backup quarterbacks don't necessarily show a lot of swagger (indiscernible). How does Tyler do that without (indiscernible) much of a presence as a backup?
JOHNNY JOHNSON III: I think it's his personality and who he is, something like that. I don't think he's ever trying to take the spotlight, but I just think that's who he is.
Q. Curious, could you walk me through from the start of the play, what is it like to have that ball hit your hands from a guy like that? What does that feel like, talking like pure physically how fast does it come and is it in the right spot?
JOHNNY JOHNSON III: It's coming real fast and it's always on a spiral. You can see the ticks. You can see the white line. It's never looking crazy. It's just a blessing.
Q. Do you think you guys are on the same page mentally?
JOHNNY JOHNSON III: Yes.
Q. How long do you think -- you guys have been playing a couple years -- how long that that perfect relationship gone on?
JOHNNY JOHNSON III: I think it's always been there, but I think the work we've put in this offseason, multiple reps, taking them every day, I think it helped a lot.
Q. Anything you guys work on specifically?
JOHNNY JOHNSON III: Work on basically every route. And we worked on a lot of scramble drills and plays, breakaways, scrambling. He knows where I'm going.
Q. Is he looking for you on most plays?
JOHNNY JOHNSON III: Depends.
Q. (Indiscernible). What have you seen on film from Wisconsin's secondary and how they try to scheme? I know it depends on the personnel and skill sets (indiscernible)?
JOHNNY JOHNSON III: I think they're a real physical group. They fly around, get to the football. Play with intensity. And just looking for the opportunity.
Q. How would you describe the effect Juwan has had in one year with you guys?
JOHNNY JOHNSON III: I think he's played a big time, leading this group along with me, and he's made big-time plays for us when we needed them. I'm proud of the way he's played this year.
Q. What's he told you about this stage specifically?
JOHNNY JOHNSON III: It's fun. Just enjoy it, embrace every moment and have fun.
Q. Is it hard not to think about (inaudible) start of the year, the difference he could have made had he been 100 percent in that Auburn game?
JOHNNY JOHNSON III: I think he could have made a big impact for us. You all see what he does when he got back. He could have made a difference in the outcome, for sure.
Q. I know you've taken a lot of team aspects of (indiscernible), it's a team game, but for you personally, the year you had last year to who you've become, how gratifying has this year been for you individually?
JOHNNY JOHNSON III: It's been good. It's been fun, but I'm not done yet and I'm not satisfied with anything. I'm going to continue to be hungry.
Q. How much, where do you feel like your biggest growth has come since you showed up to now?
JOHNNY JOHNSON III: Staying consistent, most definitely. Continuing to work on the little things because that's what's going to continue to keep me consistent throughout the whole year.
Q. Is that what you worked on this offseason?
JOHNNY JOHNSON III: Yeah, consistency, mainly.
Q. How do you develop that, just practice habits, do it over and over?
JOHNNY JOHNSON III: Yes, a lot of good habits. A lot of doing the right things and never eliminating doing the little things because that's what keeps you consistent.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT