NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 19, 2011
Jonathan Reader
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  174-lb. Champion

 THE MODERATOR: We're joined by Jonathan Reader, Iowa State, 174 pound, improves 39-0. Becomes our fifth champion on the evening to complete an undefeated season. Congratulations. Questions? 

 Q. Wrestling is known by a lot of us as the world's oldest and greatest sport, but not the bloodiest sport. Could you tell us what happened in this match early on and why did it end up being the way that it was in terms of the blood?
 JONATHAN READER: I got a big ol' black eye out there. I told my corner man, Travis, Cut me, Nick! But I just got a little scrape on the side of my face. It was nothing big. Coach Paulson and Coach Jackson kept me relaxed. I don't like giving guys breaks. I wanted to be in his face. I saw Travis, he was like, Breathe, just breathe. And it came together, man. So excited.

 Q. Is this your former redemption after your performance at the Nationals last year?
 JONATHAN READER: Yeah, I had an embarrassing tournament last year. I had some obstacles I had to overcome, injury and injury-wise. But this year I spent a lot of time with the Paulsons and Coach Jackson this summer just really sharpening my skills. And you live a lifestyle in this sport, and I have two of the greatest training partners, both World Team members. I see them every day, and I walk in, those guys are what made me National champs, and I give everything to those guys, and I'm so blessed to have them in my corner, in my town, as my mentors.
 They're my big brothers. I look to them for guidance. I look to my coach, Coach Jackson, Coach Voelker, Coach Washington, these guys are what made the difference this year. And I'm just blessed to have them in my corner.

 Q. It hasn't been an easy year for your program. What do you think this could do for Iowa State wrestling?
 JONATHAN READER: I think it's great when you get guys that are on top of the podium. We were young this year, but when you get to this part of the season it's all about you, and you gotta be a gladiator and you gotta take care of your part. Each guy has 10 percent of the team, and I just did my part.

 Q. You're the third Coach Hall wrestler to win a National title in the last five years. Could you talk a little bit about the legacy of Davison and what you guys have done here in the last decade?
 JONATHAN READER: Davison has produced three National champs: Paul Donahoe and Brent Metcalf and me. 
 The program is -- I was very fortunate to come out of Davison with the coaches that molded athletes into, you know, hard-nosed, bull-nosed guys that weren't satisfied that wanted to break their opponents and were always looking to score more points and just mentally be someone.
 And I was very fortunate to come out of a program with Coach Hall and Coach Elliott, just very blessed.

 Q. I know Coach Jackson told you after your semifinal last night that you would be better in the Finals. Did you think you were better tonight?
 JONATHAN READER: Yeah, I was definitely today. I talked a lot with my training partners, Travis and Trent, and we kept it very simple. You gotta score and you gotta be quick to your finishes. That was all Travis told me. And it stuck in my head the whole time that I was going to get to his legs, I was going to get up and I was going to finish.
 Last night I was disappointed with the way I performed. I was a little anxious and excited to wrestle. But I came out tonight and made Iowa State proud.

 Q. A lot of wrestlers, of course, from Iowa State have gone on and done very well in the Olympics. What plans do you have now after college in terms of wrestling?
 JONATHAN READER: I continue to be in the Cyclone Wrestling Club under the mentorship of Coach Jackson and the Paulson brothers. I'm not going to go back down to 163; I'm going to stay up and have fun and compete at 185. But I look also to continue my education while I'm still at Iowa State and we're still in the process of handling that, but that's beside the fact right now.

 Q. How big was it to get out to an early lead and score those quick points?
 JONATHAN READER: It was great. I got on top. And I feel comfortable in the claw. Travis kept telling me before the match you're going to get on top and you're going to pressure him hard. Last night I think I was riding too far back, but today I tried to keep the pressure forward and I kind of fell into the claw twice. I feel comfortable when we're rolling around and I have the claw, and I was just -- I got him in a claw twice. 

 Q. How much confidence did it give you making the World Juniors this year and wrestling over in Italy?
 JONATHAN READER: It was a great experience. You see a couple of guys that were All-Americans in the Finals tonight, Zach Rey from Lehigh, he was on the team as well. It was a great opportunity for me to see some great competition overseas, and really just sharpen my skills all summer long with Coach Jackson and the Cyclone Wrestling Club.

 Q. Talk to us a little bit about the Cyclone Club support. And I should say the Cyclone fan support. They've been very vocal tonight. 
 JONATHAN READER: Man, it's great. And like I said, I'm very fortunate to come out of Iowa State, and I wouldn't change it for the world. I love Cyclone Nation, and I appreciate everything they've done for me, and they've enabled me to be in the same room as the Paulson brothers. I got two World Team members as my everyday workout partners. You see Trent, he's got a banged up knee, but he came out here every single session, was there for me. And it means a lot, and I love these guys. 
 THE MODERATOR: Congrats. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT