BREEDERS' CUP WORLD CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 29, 2005
Richard Dutrow
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








RICHARD DUTROW:  They've been special.  He trained up to space as good as any horse except for Saint Liam.  Was very excited when the same boys getting with him every day.  Told me a few weeks he's been working for the family for 20 years.  He said, this is the best the horse that has ever went for me.  So I was just very excited about watching him train, watching him come up to this race.  Loves Belmont.  Prado fits him like a glove.  Lot of speed in the race.  He wants to set and come.  It was tailor made for him.

RICHARD DUTROW:  I knew if the horse was going to fire, he was in an excellent position to do that.  He saved ground, lot of speed fighting it out up front.  It was tailor made for him today.  We got a perfect trip.  Maybe one or two horses didn't fire their races, that's okay with us, we did.

RICHARD DUTROW:  It's hard to say.  I can't say it helped or hurt us.  A lot of people said they liked the cut back.  It wasn't on my mind.  He run 107 and change here one day with his neck bowed up.  That kind of surprised me when he did that.  I don't really know how to answer that question.

RICHARD DUTROW:  I see nothing worse, didn't bother anyone.  I didn't see the head one I don't know what it was about I will catch up with it.

Q.  This is obviously your first Breeder's Cup win and you're the son of a very prominent and successful trainer, your father, Richard Dutrow.  Does this win seem anymore special given how long it's taken to come first your father and now you?

RICHARD DUTROW:  Well, this was a special race for us.  I mean, got some very good clients they were telling me in the winner circle.  I don't think my dad ever -- yeah, he run one horse in the Breeder's Cup it was Flawlessly.  It's a special thing.  I don't know how I'm going to handle the Saint Liam's.  I'm just wiped out right now, I'm drained.  It's all good.

RICHARD DUTROW:  I'll tell you, I didn't even know there was an inquiry.  If there was, I couldn't imagine it being against our horse.  I was just happy from A to Z.  I didn't recognize the objection.

RICHARD DUTROW:  The day we won the Excelsior with Awfully Wild, that's when Mohammed called me that night.  I was in Don Peppy's with some friends.  He called me that night.  He says, Rick, we want you to train some horses for us.  Next day he started sending me some.  It was the day we won, the Excelsior Handicap.  I don't know when that was.  I remember it was that day. Very, very nice people to work for.  All they do is say, Rick, take your time.  You've got plenty of time.  I keep them up to date once a week or so.  I like that crowd of people.  I have a special feeling and I think one day other than this we're going to win a big race together.  I've got good karma with them.

RICHARD DUTROW:  Yeah, I can talk about it.  When I got Silver Train, when I train horses, if the horses can't push off behind, they're not going to be as good as they are supposed to do.  So my concentration is pushing off the right way.  Silver Train wasn't even close to doing it the right way.  We had to do a few procedures. Once we got him pushing off the run the right way, we were at Dunlop and he was in trouble the whole way.  We do have to keep up on his behind end.  At Saratoga when we run him, I had no idea he didn't like that track because he broke his maiden by seven.  But after that race up there, he hit himself behind like in eight different places on both hind legs.  I've never seen that before and I knew it was because of the track, it wasn't because of his hind end because he went into that race very, very good.  He come out of the race good.  The other day when I breezed him, Gustavo told me, Rick, you know, turn for home.  He slipped a little bit and he did hit himself.  I had doctor all day there, my specialist on hind ends.  He seemed a little thing with him.  There wasn't anything that we could do.  I had to revert to putting training into him, which I jogged him into the race, worked on him with a magnetic blanket, and did everything I possibly could to, I guess, take maybe some of the soreness out.  It worked.

RICHARD DUTROW:  Since this was run at Belmont, and I know our horse loves it and we decided to take a chance and run him in this race.  We had nothing to lose by trying it and everything to gain.  I don't know if I would have done it if this race would have been at Monmouth or someplace else like that.  I don't know if I would have done it.  He loves this track.  I need to win one more race with him and that's the Met Mile.  It's at this track.  The track he loves.  I will have him ready and fresh for this race.  If he wins that these people are going to have one hell of a stallion on their hands.

RICHARD DUTROW:  He had an incredible horse.  I think they handled that horse unbelievable.  A lot of people would have wanted to stretch him out.  I have nothing but respect for that horse.

RICHARD DUTROW:  Thanks a lot.  Thank you. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT