U.S. OPEN
September 2, 1995
Jason Stoltenberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. What was going on with your serve there?

JASON STOLTENBERG: Everything was feeling pretty good. I was hitting a lot of serves,
missing a lot of them and combination of me missing a lot of first serves and him missing
no returns and, you know, I just couldn't serve there for a while. I picked it up for a
little bit, got a couple more there in the last set; that made me happier. In the third
set, it was -- gave him no pressure at all. 

Q. When his game is on, do you think he has a chance to win a Grand Slam or do you see
Agassi and Sampras?

JASON STOLTENBERG: I think he hits the ball well from the baseline. I think if he
serves well enough, he certainly can. I have played him a few times now, and I find it a
little bit hard to pick his serve; however, today I did get a few returns going there for
a while. He is just that much harder to play when he is serving that well and covers the
net well; really hard to get ball past him; got to take your chances. Sometimes you -- in
a split second you got to make that pass. Today, I think it took me a little bit to get
used to the court at the start. First time I played. Once I got going, I felt comfortable,
but he played the big points well. 

Q. What I was asking about, how his game at his best; how does it stack up? I mean, do
you think he has a good a shot as anyone?

JASON STOLTENBERG: If he serves well -- if he serves as well as he can, I think he has
a good shot. That is his weapon, and he gets in the net and covers the net well, so yes, I
do, I think, if he serves well enough. 

Q. How is your shoulder?

JASON STOLTENBERG: My shoulder is fine. You know, I can't -- I got no excuses today. He
played very well, and like I said, my shoulder felt fine. I wasn't making enough first
serves. Made a few unforced errors at the net which normally I am able to make, and -- but
that, you know, that is the way it goes. He makes you feel a bit more pressure because you
have to take your chances when you can and you don't get many. And I didn't convert on a
lot of those today.

Q. What is it like to be on that court for the first time with this crowd here in New
York?

JASON STOLTENBERG: It was pretty good. I had always wanted to play there and I
practiced there earlier this week, earlier in the week, and the court itself is a little
bit smaller than I expected. I mean, the stands are certainly being enough, but the court
surface itself was nice. It is a great court to play on and the atmosphere out there is
fantastic. I wish I could have maybe pushed it a little bit longer. 

Q. You did you already talk about the series of breaks in the second and third set, I
mean, the whole series of breaks?

JASON STOLTENBERG: Yeah, I didn't know if I was going to hold another game for the rest
of the match or not. Like I said, couple of games there where I had easy volleys in the
first points of the game; I missed them and straightaway, I am under pressure again and I
can't afford to make those unforced errors, and he capitalized on my mistakes and I didn't
capitalize enough on his, so -- that doesn't happen very often in tennis but sometimes it
does.

Q. Did you have to do anything with the wind?

JASON STOLTENBERG: The wind was a little bit tricky, but, you know and the sun didn't
matter or the wind wasn't a factor at all. 

Q. Any explanation for the break, break, break?

JASON STOLTENBERG: No, I mean, it doesn't happen much in men's tennis and I think we
both went for a period where we weren't making many first serves and paid the price, both
returning quite well at that stage and in the fourth set we both served a lot better; made
more first serves; it was as better set. That is tennis.

Q. You pretty much returned his serve well. Did you read it well or wasn't he serving
as well as usual?

JASON STOLTENBERG: His serve? 

Q. Yes. 

JASON STOLTENBERG: Yeah, missed a lot of first serves, but I was reading a little bit
better than I had when I played him in the past, but still, like I said, you have to take
your chances and I had some first serves -- if I got 15-30, 4-All -- 4-3 in the fourth, I
missed a backhand and so that was my chance right there and if I had been able to get
15-40 maybe win that game, perhaps I would still be out there. I just missed and that is
what tennis is about; miss by inches, sometimes. 

Q. Any special reason why you are not playing in Davis Cup?

JASON STOLTENBERG: Well, last two Davis Cups matches we had -- I had been picked; I
couldn't play because of injury and I guess in all fairness to the team and to the captain
and coach, I had make a decision whether I could be 100% fit or whether I wasn't going to
be and I couldn't tell them that I was going to be 100% fit and in fairness to the team,
it was better if I had -- they pick the the team who was 100% healthy. I am at the moment,
but I didn't know that, you know, a month ago, and who knows what is going to happen
between now and then. I feel good, but we still have a good team. We should be able to do
it certainly with the guys that are playing. 

Q. What was your injury?

JASON STOLTENBERG: I had some trouble with my shoulder and arm injury at the end of
last year and start of this year, and it has been playing up a little bit this year, but
recently, it has been feeling good. 

Q. There isn't any chance you are going to be in the team against Hungary?

JASON STOLTENBERG: I don't know. At this stage, no. Like I said, we have got -- there
are other guys who can do just as good a job as I can. I'd like to be playing, but right
now, I am playing better and I could have more of a chance to play some more tournaments
and hope to get my ranking down to where it was last year and they are understanding of
that and I was going to try to see what I can do rest of the year as far as playing
matches and the points. 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT