EUROCARD OPEN
October 28, 1998
Jason Stoltenberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







JASON STOLTENBERG: You feel like you are destined to win. Greg hit a couple good
passing shots towards the end there at key stages and I felt the way the match was going,
I kept pushing and kept pushing. He was struggling with his serve obviously, but I got a
little bit of a read there for a while and he just kind of made that ball when he needed
it. Unfortunately today, I don't feel I did a lot wrong. It was one of those matches
where: You win them, you lose them. It is just toss the coin after a while.
JASON STOLTENBERG: I did say "boring." I have been playing matches, making
the same mistakes in matches. And, yeah, it was getting boring because I kind of - you
almost talk yourself into making those mistakes sometimes and it is just a matter of being
more intense on those points and being more concentrated and not making those sort of
mistakes. You serve a double, it is just -- just the way I felt at the time. It was an
important stage of the match and I just lost intensity for a couple of minutes and that
has been some of my problems in this year and it is getting kind of boring to do the same
thing over and over. Luckily, today, I got myself out of it, in that particular moment,
but in other matches, I haven't.
(Regarding playing on side court) I felt like I was able to block it out today.
Normally when you get a lot of people in there, the atmosphere is pretty good. Today there
wasn't a lot of people watching. There are such good matches going on in center court, in
grandstand, you can understand why there wasn't too many there. But, yeah, I didn't find
it difficult. I think when you are playing a million dollar tournament, you should be able
to get up for any match.
JASON STOLTENBERG: It is a tough one to figure out. I just felt like if I could keep
plugging away -- my emotions were pretty steady, but there were times when my
concentration wavered a little bit. My concentration was a little up and down. After the
second set, Greg was pretty upset and I knew that if I could just get in a break in the
third set - his head was hanging. He was sort of swinging, but I just -- I was working on
those first couple of points in that service game; came up with a lot of big service
games. I thought if I could get ahead on one of those games, a little bit of luck, you get
a break. But he was loose. I couldn't capitalize.
(Regarding the controversial call) I heard a fault. That upset him. That was the first
point in the tie break, I think. He got upset, but still there was another 10 or 12 points
to be played. I could see he was disappointed; if I could capitalize on that -- Greg is
normally a pretty good competitor. He was today. But I don't very rarely see him hang his
head and moping around like that. Today I thought that that was unusual and it was a
matter of just getting on -- like I said, he was just pretty loose and hit some good
serves and, unfortunately, I just had to have hopefully a little bit of luck. Like I said,
a toss of the coin.
I think I will a nice long break from tennis. It has been a long year and losing
matches like that, I take a lot of positive things out of it. There are certain things I
need to work on, I think.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT