US OPEN
August 25, 1997
Jason Stoltenberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. What happened, up a break in the first set and things fell to pieces? 
 
 JASON STOLTENBERG: Pretty much. He came out a bit slow, served a couple doubles in his
first service game. Would have been nice to get that first set. I slipped up there by
giving him the break back. But, once he got -- had a roll going, he really didn't make too
many unforced errors. Whereas, I did. So, that was the difference. 
 
Q. Disappointed first round?
 
 JASON STOLTENBERG: Yeah, it is. It is always -- first round is always difficult. But, I
was looking forward to playing well here. But, I came up against a tough opponent today.
He played quite well. I thought played -- Mantilla, on hard court, may work in my favor a
little bit, but I just didn't do the things I had to do well enough. 
 
Q. Has been a frustrating year with injuries and things?
 
 JASON STOLTENBERG: Yeah, it has been a funny year. It has been so up and down, bad
start of the year with the injury and then I sort of got it going on the clay; played
quite well and then since then, it has been up and down. A lot of good things have
happened and a lot of bad things. So, I will be happy to see this year out and maybe look
forward to the next year. 
 
Q. What sort of shape are you in in terms of bodily injuries?
 
 JASON STOLTENBERG: Injuries are fine. So, physically as far as injury-wise, I am
feeling good. There is no complaints. 
 
Q. What are your thoughts on this new complex? Everybody is walking around here saying:
"Gee whiz." But from a player's standpoint--
 
 JASON STOLTENBERG: It is great. It is similar in ways to the tennis center in
Melbourne. We got the tunnels here now underneath and every court is an individual court
which was something they were missing here. I remember last year playing on a court
playing with another men's match going right beside me which was pretty tough. Now, each
court with its own stand which is what you need for a Grand Slam. I think it is great.
Center Court is fantastic. It will be a great experience to play out there. But, just
looking at it, they have done a great job. I think all the players are going to really
like it. 
 
Q. Have you had a chance to talk to Todd Larkham at all?
 
 JASON STOLTENBERG: Actually I spoke to his brother, who is coaching him, a couple of
days ago. I said, "It will be great if he drew Sampras." He said, "Yeah, it
would be. But, Todd doesn't think so." And I said, well, you know, even though it is
the worst draw you can get to play the first evening match on that stadium against
Sampras, it is something he will enjoy telling his kids one day, I think. 
 
Q. Just getting back to Mantilla, how do you rate him now?
 
 JASON STOLTENBERG: On hard court I think he is nowhere near the player he is - wouldn't
say nowhere - but he is certainly not the player he is on clay. Clay is his best surface.
If he has enough time to get set and hit his shots, then he is very tough. If he you can
rush him enough, the courts are quicker, then he is going to struggle a little bit. I just
didn't slice, get into the net well enough and volley well enough there. There were things
I had to do well today and I didn't have enough on my shots today and didn't trouble him
at all. So, if you stay back and rally, he is very difficult. If you serve and volley well
enough, chip, charge get into the net, then he is a completely different player. 
 
Q. Jason, Pat and Mark obviously have got the inside running for the Davis Cup. Do you
think you have got any chance at all or do you think you had to do better here?
 
 JASON STOLTENBERG: Oh, no I think Mark and Pat have certainly deserved it playing
singles, no doubt about that. They are the two that are going to play, but, I am going to
go there and prepare with them just in case something happens and try and work out and
work out with the boys and do the best I can. Being the fifth player, I have got a job to
do and I have been in that position before. And, I know it is a big place to be. The
players rely on you to do whatever they want. At the same time, I get good practice. I
realize that I don't have a good chance of playing, but I am still going to go there with
the attitude as if I would be playing, try and work out and prepare and do the best I can
for myself as well as them. 
 
Q. What chance do you think you have got at this stage?
 
 JASON STOLTENBERG: I think with Pat beating Chang last week and giving Sampras a pretty
close match in Cincinnati, and Scott, you know, has got the game to cause a lot of damage,
so it is going to be interesting. I really think we have a realistically good chance of
winning. Davis Cup Sampras and Chang are No. 1 and No. 2 in the world, but Davis Cup
conditions, we have nothing to lose, we are the underdog. And, I think we are going to go
in and enjoy it. This is the one that Reggie and Newc have been looking forward to. We are
going to be fired up for it with the Woodies. Hopefully, they are going to play well. If
we can get singles in the first day, it is going to be interesting. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT