COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 3, 1996
Jason Stoltenberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Jason, were you, by any chance, carrying an injury today?

JASON STOLTENBERG: Yeah. I've had a bit of a strain in my wrist the last few weeks. I
had a week off after Stockholm. For some reason, I did hurt my wrist that following week.
I've been struggling to get the pain away. It was a bit tough with that today, but my
opponent was pretty tough. If I was a hundred percent today, my hands still would have had
a handful. I feel it's bad luck for me today to have that, but still bad luck of the draw,
a tough draw, the guy was too good.

Q. Did you watch the Davis Cup final and are you impressed by the French team, which
you have to play?

JASON STOLTENBERG: Yeah, I saw a lot of it. It was just a great thing. I believe you
can have a lot of your best and worst experiences in your career probably in Davis Cup.
That was a great example of what could happen in Davis Cup. It was great to see. I thought
Nicklas Kulti did a fantastic effort in the last match. It's tough to be called in to play
the fifth match in a final. It was good tennis. It's going to be different - we're on
grass in a couple of months. We know it's going to be a very tough match. They're a very
talented team. We're very much looking forward to the match. It's going to be close.

Q. Just getting back to your wrist problem, you don't know how you did it?

JASON STOLTENBERG: No. I've seen a lot of doctors and I've seen a lot of experts. I
think it may be more of an overuse injury, that's what I seem to be told. It's kind of
frustrating because I take a few days off; play a day, it's sore. I take another three
days off, try again. It's been like that for three weeks. My preparation has been
terrible. That's a shame because I've been looking forward to this. I was supposed to stay
in Europe the last few weeks to play for it, but, unfortunately, it wasn't the way I
liked. Like I said, playing Boris on a good day, it's going to be a tough match. I'm
disappointed, but I'm glad it's over and I can rest my wrist.

Q. What sort of treatment are you having? 

JASON STOLTENBERG: I've been taking some strong antiinflammatories to keep the
inflammation down, keep the pain away. It's not enough. I need to rest my wrist. That's
what most of the doctors have been saying - I need to rest. Even though I have been
resting, I've been trying to hit every few days. It hasn't been a complete rest; whereas,
now, I can take 10, 14 days, not pick up a racquet. I think that's what it needs. It
really needs to rest. Without resting, it's just going to keep coming back.

Q. It's not a previous injury?

JASON STOLTENBERG: No, never had it before. I may have done it picking up a bag or
something - I really don't know. I don't think it's that serious. It's very easy to find.
People have a spot where it hurts. It's not coming from the shoulder. It needs to rest. I
need to let it settle down. That's the only form of treatment that I've been told that,
you know, can get rid of the problem. I need to rest it, whether it's two weeks, three
weeks, so I can continue to prepare for the Australian.

Q. Jason, it's been quite a year for you. Do you feel that's going to put any pressure
on you for '97?

JASON STOLTENBERG: Not really. You know, I think it's the same old story. It's really
the pressure you put on yourself. You've got to learn to handle it. I think the
Australians all had a pretty good year. There's a few of us there, I think, within 15
spots of each other, four or five players. The pressure is evenly spread amongst the
players; not just one player is standing out at the moment. For me, personally, I'm
thrilled with the year I've had. I do want to get better next year. I feel like I can
improve. Obviously the Wimbledon result this year was great for me, to do well in a Grand
Slam. I really wanted to play in this tournament. Wimbledon obviously was the tournament
that got me in. I'm just happy to be here, to be able to play, try to come back again next
year. It's been a good year.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT