U.S. OPEN
August 29, 1996
Jason Stoltenberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. How was the game improved for the last couple of rounds?
 
 JASON STOLTENBERG: I felt like I served a little bit better today. First round I really
felt like I struggled a little bit on serve. Definitely served better. I was a little more
aggressive than I had been. Last time I played, I lost to him. I felt like I didn't play
well. I felt like I wanted to improve in the effort that I played him before. I was a lot
more ready to play today, a lot more aggressive, and that helped me win. On the big
points, I was a lot more aggressive. 
 
Q. So the serving and aggression was the key to the match?
 
 JASON STOLTENBERG: I think so. I got a good start in the second set, played a good
aggressive tiebreaker. Two sets to love up was a big lead. 
 
Q. You've got to your best performance here in the US Open. It's basically opened up
that you could play maybe Rios in the fourth round?
 
 JASON STOLTENBERG: I think I'm going to play Sanchez in the next round. Javier is a guy
that has been around for a lot of years, very experienced. He's a great competitor. He
just runs and competes all day, no matter what the score. Tough player you have to beat. I
think I will have to lift my level of play. I know it's going to be a tough match. No need
for me -- whether I'm going to play Rios in the fourth or not I'm not concerned about,
because the next is going to be tough. Take a lot of energy. Need to rest up for it. 
 
Q. You're feeling pretty fit, no injury worries?
 
 JASON STOLTENBERG: Nothing at all, which is really good. Nice to come into the Grand
Slams and feeling healthy and fit. All summer I've been feeling pretty good, maybe saving
some of my better tennis in this summer for this tournament, which is also good. 
 
Q. Do you change your game at all when you come into a Grand Slam such as the US Open
from any other tournaments?
 
 JASON STOLTENBERG: No, not really. I feel like over the summer my game has been up and
down. Played some really good matches and not so good matches. I was looking forward to
this tournament before I came in. You have to change your play depending on who you're
playing again. Certain players you need to use different tactics. Other than that, the
difference is it's five sets. That's a big difference in Grand Slams. 
 
End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT