SWINGING SKIRTS LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY CTBC
April 24, 2016
Haru Nomura
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How does it feel after the big win?  
HARU NOMURA: Today very cold day, so I feel now I'm so cold, too.  I'm happy, second win, yeah.   
 Q.  Your 60- to 70-foot bomb on 12, can you take us through what happened there and your emotions?  
HARU NOMURA: So that putt in, hit the -- I hit, and it rolled on the line, so I thought 100 percent in.  So I thought today, I win.   
 Q.  As soon as the ball went in the hole, you thought today, I win?  You knew it?  
HARU NOMURA: Yes.   
 Q.  And that was why you gave the fist bumps?  
HARU NOMURA: Uh-huh.   
 Q.  What did your caddie say to you?  
HARU NOMURA: Caddie say, "Holy shit."  (Laughter.)   
 Q.  Talk about the conditions out there; obviously very windy, and you said you felt cold.  Can you explain how you adjusted your approach today based on that?  
HARU NOMURA: Everybody same situation today, so I try my patience.  I picked up my patience.   
 Q.  You stayed patient today?  
HARU NOMURA: Yes.   
 Q.  What did you like about this golf course?  What part of this golf course fits your game, did you like about it?  
HARU NOMURA: I like tight courses.  You guys will find this strange, but I like windy situations.  I like playing in the wind.  I like tough situations, so when I spoke to the caddie, even before the championship last week in Hawai'i, I told him, I'm going to come here and win this tournament because I really like this course.  I enjoy this course.  I'm glad that I was able to deliver on what I told my caddie.   
The rough is deep, and the greens are fast and difficult and firm, and so everything I was presented with this week is conditions that I enjoy playing in, so I really like this course, and I'm glad that I won the tournament.   
 Q.  How windy was it today, and were they the windiest conditions you've ever played?  If not, where was the windiest?  
HARU NOMURA: Not only the wind was -- it wasn't the windiest conditions I've ever played in, but it was certainly up there, but also the temperature-wise, I thought it was one of the coldest days.   
 Q.  And you had that streak of bogeys in the middle of the round that kind of opened things up for other players; did you watch the leaderboard at all, and did you get a little nervous where you opened things up maybe a little bit?  
HARU NOMURA: No.  I'm never nervous.  This weather very cold, so sometimes bogey is okay.   
 Q.  With this being an Olympics year and the UL International Crown, how much does that factor into your competitive fire this year?  
HARU NOMURA: Well, I think to speak about the Olympics, it's just another stroke play tournament for me.  It doesn't feel any different than other tournaments quite frankly, but as it relates to UL International Crown, it's a team competition, so I'll work with our players to be able to have the best teamwork we can have and win the tournament.   
 Q.  How much pride do you have being the top-ranked Japanese player right now?  
HARU NOMURA: No.   
 Q.  None at all?  
HARU NOMURA: No.   
 Q.  How will you celebrate this win?  You're going to Vegas next week, right?  
HARU NOMURA: I love playing blackjack, so that's what I plan to do.  When I get there, I'm just going to drop off my luggage and go.  (Laughter.)   
 Q.  You said that you and your caddie talked about the fact that you were going to win this golf tournament.  Have you and your caddie talked about any other golf tournaments coming up this year that you think you're going to win?  
HARU NOMURA: You know, when I came into this year, I had two goals.  That's to win an LPGA tournament and also win an LPGA major tournament.  Now I've won two tournaments LPGA this year, so I think my goal now is to win a major.  I'm going to let you guess which one.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT