SWINGING SKIRTS LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY CTBC
April 23, 2016
Haru Nomura
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Take us through what happened on 6, what the conversation was with the rules officials and the ultimate decision.
HARU NOMURA: What happened was the bunker on No. 6, the greenside bunker on the left, it was slopey, so I was trying to take a stance, but I kept slipping downhill, and in order to get a firm stance, I had to -- even when I had to do a practice swing, I had to swing real hard, and when I did, I kept moving forward again and again.  There was no option but to move like that, but they were saying that I was moving excessively, but what I was trying to tell them was, okay, then what is the guideline.  There should be some sort of a standard, a regulation that explains what a fraction is and not.  So that was what was going on.
Q. Did you have any idea that that was going to happen after the round was done, or was it a surprise?
HARU NOMURA: Yes, a total surprise.
Q. Well, a turn of events that went luckily in your favor, you have to feel good now going into the final round.
HARU NOMURA: It's probably going to be windy like today.  The only thing I can do is just play a fun round.
Q. Going into tomorrow, I know you held off Lydia in Australia.  How much does that do for your confidence?  I know you said your confidence is so high right now.  How big was that, to get that win and to hold the lead and win?
HARU NOMURA: I mean, you could say it's confidence and you can call it what it is, but what I feel right now is I feel very comfortable about golf.  I just want to have fun.  I'm not thinking about trying to beat someone.  It's really about having fun.
Q. How big of a difference is a two-stroke difference, say you did get the penalty?  You don't have it now, but that has to be a huge difference.
HARU NOMURA: For me the two-stroke penalty, it wouldn't really have made a big difference.  If I did something wrong, I have to accept it.  But there was really no clear rule about what the guidelines were, so I would just focus on my game and just leave it at that, yeah.
Q. Three-shot lead going into tomorrow; comfortable?  Will you be nervous tomorrow?  What do you feel with that lead?
HARU NOMURA: It's going to be fun.
Q. Win number two, can you see it?  Can you see that you can possibly get it done tomorrow?  What do you think you have to shoot tomorrow to get it done?
HARU NOMURA: 2-under, even.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT