NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 26, 2005
Anastasia Myskina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  
 

Q.  No Russian woman has won this tournament.  What are the chances it's going to happen this year, better than 50%?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Oh, I think even more because the girls are playing pretty good.  Dementieva and Sharapova was in the semifinal last week.  I think all of us are really in a high level right now, and we just have to work hard.  
 

Q.  I mean, there's no other country that has more players in the Top 20, obviously.  That alone would seem to give you a chance at some of the larger tournaments like this.  How about describe your own play, how you're feeling this week. 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  You know, I've been playing really well today, and I hopefully gonna continue to play like this.  But I know the beginning of the year wasn't good for me.  But it's, you know, I gave a lot of energy last year and I did a lot of things last year.  So kind of excuse, but I still need to work hard to, you know, to find my game again.  
 

Q.  Should you have been on Stadium Court to start out, do you think?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  I don't really care where to play.  The grandstand is really well, too, for me.  
 

Q.  How about Fed Cup, has that team been announced?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  No, not yet, because we don't really know who's gonna play and who's gonna be on the team. 
 

Q.  It looks like - I think if the brackets are right - if the US and Russia win the first one, the US will play at Russia.  That could be exciting because of all the top players. 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  That's true, but, you know, usually in US, (not every) top players played Fed Cup.  So I think that's the captain work, she done pretty good because in US, usually top players, they say they have so many excuses not playing Fed Cup.  In Russia it's completely different story; all the top players wants to play and they playing.  So if Zina Garrison gonna bring her best team, it's gonna be really tough match for us. 
 

Q.  She said so far it's Serena, Lindsay, Venus... 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  That's going to be great team, I think.  I think it's going to be one of the best.  
 

Q.  What are your own plans?  Will you play? 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  I don't know.  I don't know yet.  I'm thinking.  They ask me, but I'm still thinking.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT