AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 24, 2005
Anastasia Myskina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Anastasia, please.  
 
 
Q.  What was the problem today?  You couldn't get that many forehands to the court. 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  No problem, just a bad day, bad game.  Nathalie playing pretty smart against me today.  That's it.  
 
Q.  Were you surprised at the way she could hit her forehand?  Normally her best shot is the backhand.  Today she was really good with the forehand as well. 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yeah, I think she play pretty good match today.  Forehand was really well.  She didn't do a lot of unforced errors.  It was mostly I missed the whole match.  So I can't say really that she won the match; I can say that I lost the match. 
 
Q.  How do you explain so many mistakes, easy errors, you made today?  Were you sort of tired?  You said last week or in Sydney you were tired.  Do you think it's connected?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  I don't know.  I can't really say if everything connected.  I just can say that sometimes you have a bad days.  Maybe that's one of the bad days today.  We have a lot of tournaments, so next week maybe it's going to be my week.  I'm really look forward for another tournament.  
 
Q.  How disappointing is it when you have a bad day in a Grand Slam in the second week?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yeah, it's really disappointing  because my draw was pretty good draw.  Let's put it that way.  I have really great chance at least to be in the semis, especially that Dementieva lost today.  I didn't really use that chance.  But I think I have another one.  
 
Q.  The fact that Dementieva had lost before you played, did it affect your concentration? 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  I was really nervous.  That was long match.  I was actually watching, and I was really hoping that Elena was gonna win because was really tough match for her.  Maybe that's not the Russian day today.  
 
Q.  On the court, you couldn't focus on the match? 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yeah, it was really hard.  I don't know why.  Maybe because of the long match before me, because I was kind of afraid at 4-Love.  I thought it was gonna be fast set.  But then was completely different game. bI never won a match on Rod Laver court.  So maybe that's not my court.  But just it's one of excuses... 
 
Q.  Do you see that physically you are worn out a little bit because of the long last season, not having enough rest between them? 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Well, I don't know.  Maybe yes, maybe not.  But definitely I'm not in the best shape right now.  But still you can win the matches being in that shape.  You just have to focus.  Today, I couldn't really focus and concentrate during the whole match.  I lost a lot of easy balls.  
 
Q.  Just going back to my question previously.  The disappointment you get, Grand Slams obviously amplify that a lot, especially when you do have an opportunity like the draw you had.  Is that something you will dwell on or is it something that doesn't last all that long?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  I really -- I think I have to forget this match and just have to keep on, because like I said, I have so many tournaments.  I'm going to play Antwerp, Doha, Dubai.  I have to think about these tournaments already now.  I have to prepare myself for that tournaments.  If I can just practice hard and think positive, then everything gonna be fine.  
 
Q.  At the end of last year you expressed some discomfort with having Maria Sharapova on the Fed Cup team.  How do you feel about that now if she's playing?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  How many times we can talk about this?  I have no idea.  I mean, come on.  I don't care who's gonna be on the team because I might not be there just because the captain decide that I'm not good enough to be on the team.  So we don't know who's gonna be on the team, who's gonna be captain of the team.  It's too far to say something about Fed Cup right now.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT