AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2005
Anastasia Myskina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Anastasia, please.


Q.  Were you concerned, down a break in that third set?  Were you concerned about the way the match was going at that stage?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  I didn't know her.  I didn't know her game.  I just was kind of, you know, looking how she play, what she doing.  I still was pretty confident.  Even that I was down 3-1, I still was confident that I can win the match. 

Q.  What is the main goal for you this year? 

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  The main goal, of course, would be No. 1.  That's why I'm here.  That's why I want to win.  I know it's really hard, it's really tough, because there's so many good players who also want to be No. 1 and who also want to win.  But I think it's possible that I just have to work hard. 

Q.  Can you explain the success of all the Russian players on the tennis tour? 

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Well, I think we've been really hard worker.  We are have a good competition, so we push each other.  Like I said already, behind my back so many good girls.  It's push me to play every match 100% even more.

Q.  Do you think Serena Williams will ever be No. 1 again?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Why not?  I mean, she's a great player.  I think she wants to be No. 1 again.  It's possible.  Why not? 

Q.  How is your shoulder this week?  Is it better than Sydney?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yeah, it's getting better.  I have my physio here with me so we're working on it.  Hopefully it's gonna get better every day. 

Q.  Is it something which down the track you might need to take some time off?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  The shoulder been bothering me for already couple years, so it's nothing new really.  I just have to work.  I have to do some exercise.  But it's gonna be fine. 

Q.  Are there any opponents here in Melbourne that you don't want to meet on the court? 

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  You know, all the girls here, all 128 girls, are really tough.  My next round, Lisa Raymond, she's a really tough opponent.  She won two matches 6-Love, 6-1, so it shows me she's really good player or she's really confident here.  So I think I don't want to meet anybody here, but I have to play every match (smiling).

Q.  What do you think about Maria Sharapova's chances? 

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Well, I think, like I said, it's really good tournament here because it's really excited tournament because nobody know who is gonna win.  Maria is one of the favorite.  I think she's really great player.  Yesterday was a tough match for her, and I think she went through.  It was good for her. 

Q.  How is your relation, you and Maria? 

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Like usual, good relation.  Nothing change. 

Q.  The status with the Fed Cup, I know it's a couple months away, but has that changed at all since your previous comments about your concerns going in if Sharapova is involved?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  What do you mean? 

Q.  When you said last year that you didn't want to play Fed Cup if Sharapova and her father were involved in the squad.  Has that changed at all?  Have you had discussions with Russian officials to sort that out?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  We already have a discussion and we didn't really talk about this any more.  That was in the past.  What I said, I said.  I'm responsible for my words.  That's really all I can say.

Q.  It's been smoothed over? 

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yeah, yeah. 

Q.  With your game today, early, when you were broken on serve, maybe even this time last year you would have lost your cool.  Obviously even though you're not that happy with the way you're playing, you kept it together.  Do you feel emotionally you're stronger now on court than you were previously?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yeah, I think so.  I learn a lot of things from last year that my emotions doesn't really help me on the court.  I know it's really emotional game and sometimes you have to express yourself, but not the way I did.  I think right now I'm getting really better and just have to play my best here to win. 

Q.  Was there a certain point that was a turning point for you in terms of that or has it just been a gradual thing?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  You mean today or...? 

Q.  No, in terms of keeping your emotions in check a bit more when you're playing. 

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  We been talking to my coach a lot about this.  You know, I saw myself on TV, and I don't really like it.  So I think that's maybe change a lot.  The way you look, it's really important, as well. 

Q.  Two days ago during your autograph session a couple of people were shouting at you (Russian words).  Do you feel like you get bored or disappointed because you have nothing to do with it and they were shouting some unpleasant words to you?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  But that doesn't really sound unpleasant words to you, what you said.  If you know that words, that doesn't really mean anything.  It means "thank you," and "vodka."  Nothing really bad.  I think it was okay. 

Q.  With Maria losing a set in the Australian and Lindsay struggling at the moment, can you talk about the difficulties of the first week?  There are some more difficult matches for the women these days in the first week of a Grand Slam. 

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Well, I think for the all girls, especially top girls, was really hard and tough year last year.  Maria won a championship.  She's really young player.  So maybe she, for her, it wasn't enough time to recover it.  I think for Lindsay as well, you know, she been on tour for a long time, you know, and she have to come again and play over and over with the same people.  But I think everything can be fine.  Just need matches like this, you know, to go through these matches.  I think then it's easy and better game. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT