AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 18, 2005
Anastasia Myskina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  First question, please, for Anastasia.  We'll go with English first.


Q.  I imagine you're pretty angry with yourself for really dominating a match and then letting her get back into it. 

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  What do you mean? 

Q.  You were dominating the match.  Then you allowed her to get back into the match.  You don't normally do that kind of thing. 

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Oh, I think it was a good match, especially after Sydney.  In the second set she start play a little bit better, and I did a lot -- not a lot, but I did couple more mistakes and unforced errors.  But I think the match was pretty good for first match after Sydney.  I think it was a good one. 

Q.  There are four different reigning Grand Slam champions in the women's game.  You're the one that carries the title 'World Champion'.  Does that mean anything in terms of extra prestige or belief? 

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Well, I was really proud and honored to be a world champion.  But I think right now I don't feel any pressure because I know how many good players here and how many favorites here.  Really excited that nobody really know who's gonna win.  So I think I just really happy to be here and try to do my best. 

Q.  Were you getting frustrated in that second set when she kept coming back?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Not really.  Just get frustrated about my serve maybe little, because I miss three games on my serve.  That's pretty much it.  But my return was pretty confident, so I was playing good. 

Q.  You're fairly good friends with Svetlana.  How do you react to the news this morning about what's happened to her from Belgium? 

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  First of all, I think it's really strange situation because I know that it's really unfair to all the players, and especially the players who were there.  Unfair to the girls.  I think a lot of things was doing not by the rules.  Basically, I think Belgium Federation, whatever, whoever did this, they were really wrong.  I was really sad, and I think we just have to defend ourself.  Hopefully not gonna happen again, this situation. 

Q.  Some players have been complaining about the tennis court out there.  How does it strike you - too fast, too slow, just right? 

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Great (smiling).  I didn't see really any difference from last year.  We played so many tournaments so I don't really remember what happened last year here.  I think couple -- I was here like couple days before and I get used to it, so I feel good. 

Q.  So it's your court to win on, your kind of court?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  At least I didn't lose a match in Vodafone Arena so maybe I should play there all the time.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT