AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 16, 2005
Anastasia Myskina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Anastasia, please. 


Q.  Do you think losing early in Sydney last week set you back at all?  How are you physically at the moment?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  I think that was really bad match when I play, but then also I gain something positive that I came here, practice, and hopefully I'm ready right now to play here because that's the most important tournament for me. 

Q.  Are you 100% physically?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  I'm not going to be sure about that.  But definitely I try.  I work hard and I try to be hundred percent for Tuesday. 

Q.  Is there a feeling that the women's side of this tournament is very open this year, perhaps more open than it's been for some time?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yeah, definitely.  I mean, you never know.  Now especially right now I think it's more interesting because nobody really know who's going to win.  Sisters really, really work hard.  They want to win.  Maria playing great.  Dementieva playing -- Alicia play unbelievable.  So I think it's really interesting right now. 

Q.  There are, of course, a couple of big names missing. 

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  I mean, like everybody.  Amelie, Lindsay, everybody.  That's what I want to say, that it's really interesting right now. 

Q.  But I mean there are a couple of women who are not playing here.  Is there some feeling that it would be better to get an idea of how strong women's tennis is by having everybody fit at the same time?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Oh, that would be great.  I think that would be really, really interesting if it would be that way.  But, you know, it's professional sports.  It's really hard to be healthy and not get injured.  So that happen sometimes. 

Q.  What do you think your chances are this fortnight?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Well, I think I have a pretty good draw.  No Russians until quarterfinal, so I think it's great (smiling).  Really look forward to playing.  Really want to win here. 

Q.  Would you have expected a Grand Slam title to come at the French Open more than anywhere else?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  No, not at the French.  I was losing first round for six year.  I mean, only win one match there.  I was really hoping to win couple matches there, but not the whole tournament.  But after this, I get a lot of confidence.  And I think the last year was great year for me.

Q.  How do you think the surface here suits you?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  It's okay.  It's great.  For me it's no problem at all.

Q.  Your week of training after you were beaten in Sydney, could you talk about that?  Has it been a particularly intensive week of practice?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yeah, it was really hard week.  Me and my coach was practicing a lot on the court, off the court.  I played last week, it was really hard because it was really hot, and I wasn't ready for that conditions at all.  So that's why it was a good lesson, and I think I'm going to learn something new for tennis match. 

Q.  Sometimes you seem to have some emotional ups and downs.  Have you done anything to try to work on your focus a little bit?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Not really because it's really emotional sport.  Sometimes when it's good emotions, people like it.  When sometimes it's bad emotions, people doesn't like it.  But it's you on the court.  Sometimes I think you have to express yourself - not really bad, but sometimes it helps, sometimes it's not.  I try to change because I think for me it's really doesn't help on the court to be really emotional. 

Q.  Can you talk about the effect of the tsunami on you, the tour in general, the other players.  What's the feeling about that? 

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Oh, everybody really, I mean, upset is not the word.  It was really bad thing happen to the whole world.  I know lot of girls play exhibitions in Hong Kong, in Asia, something else, to earn some money.  We going to do something here, as well, to earn some money to help people.  I don't know what it's going to be exactly, but we had the players meeting last night.  We were thinking, we were talking about it.  Everybody really want to support and help people.

Q.  You plan to do something here at the Australian Open?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yes.  We don't know really exactly what it's going to be, but for sure something to help.

Q.  Have you done anything personally since the tragedy happened?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  I didn't, I didn't, because I was waiting for Australia.  I was thinking to talk to the WTA.  Because I didn't play any exhibition, so I didn't do anything. 

Q.  Is it harder to focus on the tournament because of that?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  You know, when people hurt somewhere, it's always hard to focus on something. 

Q.  There are a lot of Russian women at the top.  That competition has obviously helped you get better.  As all of you get closer to No. 1, does it become more difficult to stay friends with everybody?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Friends, no.  Why?  We still good friends.  Still respect each other, I think.  We all do the same thing.  We all do the same job.  We fight on the court.  But I think off the court you still have to be normal person and be friendly - at least friendly - because the tennis not forever.  You still want to have a friend when you finish your tennis career.

Q.  What have you done since Fed Cup?  Were you in Moscow?  Where were you training?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Really, nothing.  Because it was a hard and huge year last year.  I finished in December because I played exhibition in December.  And that was really just 20 days of nothing because it was too much already.

Q.  Where was the exhibition?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  In Estonia.

Q.  But you did nothing?  You didn't pick up a racquet?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  No, nothing.  No running, nothing.  I was just really dead.

Q.  For 20 days, nothing?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yeah, nothing.  I start practice before Hopman Cup couple days.

Q.  Martina Hingis is playing a tournament in Pattaya after the Australian Open.  Do you think it's possible for someone to come back after two years since the women's game has progressed so much?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Oh, we don't know what Martina do.  Maybe she's practicing really hard to come back.  I don't know really.  It's really interesting that she decide to play there.  I think it's a lot of people surprised by that decision.  If she's going to be back, I think everybody look forward because it's going to be really, really interesting as well when she's going to come back.  But I know tennis improve since she quit.  So we will see. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT