US OPEN
September 2, 2004
Anastasia Myskina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Anastasia.  
 
 
Q.  That was not a very pretty second set you played.  Has it been a long time since you played one that badly before?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yeah, I mean, that was pretty bad match for me, and I'm not happy with that.  But I'm human being.  I cannot to play good every day, especially I was playing a lot in the past.  Every tournament, it was semifinals or San Diego was the final.  I'm really empty right now.  It's too bad that it happened here, but it's life.  It's going to be next year for sure, it's going to be much better. 
 
Q.  Has your serve ever gone off like that as it did in the second set?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Today was serve, backhand, forehand.  You know, today everything wasn't good, you know.  Just, you know, it's the game.  And I guess some games you can have like this. 
 
Q.  Emotionally, when you went on court today, did you have nothing?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Nothing.  Completely nothing.  I didn't want to fight.  I didn't want to run.  I didn't want to do anything.  And it's not excuse, and it's not good things.  It's not that I take something from her.  She's play pretty well today, as well.  But it's okay.  Some matches can be like this, I guess. 
 
Q.  Is this a little bit because of the Olympics, having it so close to the US Open?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yeah.  I mean, my goal was Olympic medal, for sure.  That match stays with me forever, that's for sure.  But I gave a lot energy.  I fought that match and I gave everything that I had.  I guess maybe it's took a lot of energy and I'm not really able to recover after the match.  
 
Q.  The gold was the goal in Athens.  What about No. 1?  Is that on your mind at all?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Today it wasn't, for sure.  But it is.  It is one of my goals.  I mean, if I will be able to recover it, then if I'm going to play good end of the year, like we have more tournaments coming, and it's indoor season coming.  So if I will play my best there, why not?  
 
Q.  So many Russian girls.  Here is another one.  Most of us know very little about her.  Do you know about her?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  I don't know her really well, but I know her because we practice in the same club right now.  She's one of the good Russian who is coming.  Hopefully she's going to have -- I mean, she's going to be good.  
 
Q.  When you got to New York, did you say to yourself that maybe you have an opportunity to do better than you did in Athens, maybe you could win this Grand Slam, or were you still saying that that was such a terrible loss to Justine, that you don't have anything left to fight hard?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  You know, when I was here first days, I was still crying about this match against Justine.  So it's still in my mind, you know.  And when I came here, I was still thinking.  But, you know, if you here, you have to think about US Open.  Maybe that was my mistake, still thinking about Athens.  
 
Q.  Have you sorted out at all what happened?  In your own mind, have you figured out what happened against Justine, how you could lose that match?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Just, you know, I start waiting for her mistakes, but Justine start playing unbelievable.  I started missing a lot.  So that happen, I guess.  
 
Q.  You've been very open with us in the past.  You say you've wept after defeats.  Does that help you deal with the sense of loss?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Not really.  You know, I'm not crying today (smiling).  Maybe sometimes just, you know, it's too much emotions involved in that game.  And sometimes you can handle it, sometimes not.  Sometimes you can hold them inside, sometimes not.  After Justine match, was hard to hold them because was too tough for me. 
 
Q.  It's said for certain players really big losses stay with them for a long time, where some players don't get over losses.  Do you think you'll be able to get over the Olympic loss in a while?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  I keep saying to me yes, because I really want to forget that because it's so many tournaments ahead of me.  But right now I'm still in Athens, I guess.  I hope my team going to help me, because I have a great team and great coach.  So I'm going to be okay, for sure. 
 
Q.  Maybe there's a sort of hangover from Athens.  Usually the first match at a Grand Slam is the tough one.  You had no trouble with Cervenova whatsoever. 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  I guess the girl was really scared of me, so she didn't really play that much.  I didn't do anything really, really great.  I just played my game.  But today girl put fighting.  She played better than the first girl.  That was enough to beat me today.  
 
Q.  When you play against another Russian girl, do you want to remind everyone that you are the No. 1 Russian when you play another Russian?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yeah, for sure.  I mean, yeah.  But I have a good score against Russian.  I just lose couple matches.  That's just the third one that I lost this year.  I hope it's not going to happen again actually.  
 
Q.  A lot of the players coming from the Olympics are having problems, whether they're losing or going many sets.  Do you think Justine physically and mentally can go through this tournament, beat someone like Davenport at this point?  Do you think it's too hard to recover from Athens?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  I think for Justine, she's tough girl.  Think she's going to be okay.  But it's going to be really tough match against any of the top players for her, especially because she didn't play lot of matches in the past.  But maybe that's going to be also advantage because she's not as tired as let's say even Lindsay playing four tournaments before US Open or some of the top players.  You know, you never know.  But I think Justine tough girl, so she's going to be okay.  
 
Q.  Did you talk to Anna after the match in the locker room?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  No, I didn't see her.  
 
Q.  How good is she really?  Is she an up-and-coming player or are her groundstrokes as good as they looked against you at times?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Let's say she's okay right now.  I mean, she was not missing the ball today.  She didn't have nothing really like Maria, serve unbelievable or, you know, hit the ball hard.  She's normal girl who is going to be good player.  
 
Q.  What's the very best thing that's happened to you since winning Roland Garros?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Every day it's the best day, you know.  I really am healthy, I'm happy, enjoy still playing.  You know, sometimes tired, sometimes losing, but I'm still really happy, so that's the best thing. 
 
Q.  People recognize you a lot more?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yeah, it is.  That's really nice thing.  I mean, I'm happy.  That's the most important thing, I guess.  
 
Q.  How did your coach handle this match today?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  He gave me big hug, and I'm really happy with that.  He's not upset.  He said that we going home tomorrow.  We still coach and player, we're going to work.  Everything will be fine.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT