WIMBLEDON
July 3, 2006
Anastasia Myskina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 Q.  You just keep winning. 
 ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Sounds good to me, but tomorrow is going to be a different day, different player, much better.  I don't know who it's going to be, but it doesn't matter.  Anybody who is in the quarterfinal, it's really good. 

 Q.  You had a tough match with Jankovic last year.  What was the difference today? 
 ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Well, she's a really strange player.  Let's put it that way.  She walk on the court.  I don't think she really care about the way she play.  She more care about how she look.  That was kind of strange, you know.  She was more touching her hair, whatever, skirt.  I was just thinking, If you don't want to play tennis, why are we even trying here hard? 

 Q.  Was it distracting? 
 ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  A little bit, you know.  She took her towel here, she took a towel there.  She's like, you know, it's really annoying, let's say. 
 But, well, she can play.  She can play really well.  But she's like up and down all the time. 

 Q.  So you're focused? 
 ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  I have to.  I had to whole match. 

 Q.  Even though you served for it at 5-4? 
 ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Well, she can play, like I said.  She was playing -- maybe I was a little bit tense because I want to finish the match.  I put a little bit of pressure on myself that I have to finish the match.  She was more relaxed. 
 But basically, I mean, nothing really. 

 Q.  You did not want to go three sets? 
 ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  No.  Too hot. 

 Q.  How did it affect you when you heard that Venus lost?  I'm sure you were thinking you were going to probably play Venus, no? 
 ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yeah, we talked actually before that I play Venus.  But, yeah, I saw little bit.  Just Venus played not great.  She did a lot of mistakes.  Wasn't her day, for sure. 

 Q.  So talk about overall since, let's say, a month.  Other than your loss to Justine in Roland Garros, your tennis seems to be consistent. 
 ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Even the French Open Justine wasn't that bad.  Maybe the score 6-1, 5-Love was like weird.  But the match wasn't that bad. 

 Q.  End of the second set, you almost got back in. 
 ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Was great match. 

 Q.  So you feel almost everything is coming back now? 
 ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  I definitely feel different person.  You know, I definitely feel that I can win more.  Even tomorrow I think I'll step on the court and I will more not be like, Oh, I'm satisfied with result.  I just want more.  So I think I can play better. 

 Q.  Just talk about Amélie.  Looks like she's going to win.  Playing her on grass is a -- she attacks a lot more. 
 ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yeah, that's true.  I don't really take seriously her lost (sic) in Eastbourne, because that was her first tournament.  I'm sure she's in much better shape right now. 
 We will see.  I play her last year this same round.  She will come to the net, for sure.  But I just have to play my best. 

 Q.  What do you have to do?  Do you have to be more aggressive or more consistent? 
 ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Consistent and aggressive and serve well and return well.  So basically everything. 

 Q.  Are you feeling better going into this match than you did last year? 
 ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yeah, I'm sure.  I'm sure Amélie will take me more seriously because last year, was a drama Wimbledon for me.  I was like losing every matches.  Well, surprisingly, I was in the quarterfinal. 
 But here it's a little bit different.  I played well last week.  I playing good this week.  Maybe she also not going to be that relaxed.  She maybe going to be tight in some points.  We will see. 

 Q.  Do you give Elena a chance against Maria on grass? 
 ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Oh, no comment. 

 Q.  Not on personalities; just on game. 
 ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  You never know.  Dementieva, it's also -- she's playing, playing, losing, losing, all of a sudden she's in the quarterfinals.  You never know. 

 Q.  She's tough in the Grand Slams, though, right? 
 ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  She's always been tough.  But I'm sure Maria going to play -- I don't know.  She played good match today.  Flavia was playing unbelievable.  It's I think up to Dementieva.  If she wake up on the right leg, she can play, too. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT