OLYMPIC TENNIS TOURNAMENT
August 21, 2004
Anastasia Myskina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  First question, please.  
 
 
Q.  Could you speak about how difficult it was for you to play after last night?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  I wasn't able to recover because I think I gave everything last night.  I mean, I gave what I had.  Just was not really able to recover it and play again today, so that's the point.  
 
Q.  What are your feelings with regards to the bronze medal match?  Do you think that the two beat in the semifinals should get medals?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  You know, like when -- I really was thinking about the gold last night, and I was playing really well last night.  But after the match like yesterday, it's really hard to play again.  You know, like usually, especially in the tennis, you never play again after you lose.  I mean, you have a break couple days.  And during the night today, I was thinking about my match.  I was really upset, and that's why it was really hard to play today again, so...  
 
Q.  Could I get your opinion of how Alicia has improved as a player?  She's got some good wins in the last month or so. 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yeah, she's improved a lot.  I mean, I played her Sarasota last year and I beat her really easy.  Since that she improve her serve, baseline strokes.  I guess she's become a really aggressive player.  And that's really good for her.  She's playing really well right now.  
 
 
Q.  Not translated. 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  After yesterday's match, I couldn't really focus today and show everything I had, be at the top of my game.  I think I gave everything I had during the game yesterday, which I lost unfortunately.  I just wasn't able to recuperate overnight.  
 
Q.  Not translated. 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Emotionally I was drained.  It was very difficult to play in those conditions.  I didn't have any gas left.  I couldn't find my motivation.  
 
Q.  What is going to be your general impression?  What will you take away with you from these Olympic Games? 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Well, of course, a lot of very positive feelings, but of course the disappointment from yesterday's game.  But I hope -- I think this will overcome this and continue to play well.  
 
Q.  Prior to the Olympics, there were some rumors that these Olympics might be your last.  You will retire after these. 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Well, yes, I did mention this.  I even said that I definitely will continue playing to win the gold in four years.  I can't say that now.  I mean, I don't know.  Maybe in the next two years, upcoming two years, I'm going to achieve a lot and then I won't need to wait until the next Olympics.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT