OLYMPIC TENNIS TOURNAMENT
August 20, 2004
Anastasia Myskina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  That must be pretty frustrating, to go from 5-1.  Is that one of the toughest you've faced?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  It was, yeah.  I don't know really how to call that, but I'm really, really upset.  That's my second match that I lost Justine and I'm up 5-1, 5-3.  But that's the game.  I guess I was not good enough to win the match. 

Q.  As the match was changing in that final set, what were you trying to do? 

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Uhm, I think it was -- my mistake was I was too far from baseline, especially after 5-1.  Because Justine was starting putting pressure on me and I just play her game.  That was my mistake, I guess.  And that's why I lost the match. 

Q.  Despite the disappointment, the defeat, could you take any consolation from the way you did fight back in the second set and take it to a final set?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  I think that's the hardest thing because I was controlling the whole game after the second set.  I mean, I wasn't sure that I'm gonna win the match, but I was pretty sure that, I mean, I can finish the match.  I guess some important points I couldn't finish.  And I just, I mean, I missed some -- I did a lot of unforced errors in important points.  That was the key why I lost the match. 

Q.  Do you have a feeling that you lost it or she won it? 

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Definitely after 5-1, Justine start playing a little bit better.  But I think I lost the match because, I mean, if you're up 5-1, you have to finish the match - no matter what. 

Q.  Why is it do you think that you have these problems closing out these big matches like this? 

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  I don't know.  Maybe little bit pressure, and I can't handle it.  Maybe something else.  But today it's something else, it's completely different situation.  I play for my country and I just start remember that.  And at 5-3, 5-4, I start thinking about that I have to win, and you can't think like this.  You just have to fight for every point.  I mean, I fought, but my mind wasn't really in the match.  I was thinking that I'm losing and, I mean, that's the mistake. 

Q.  So would it be fair to say that it was a case of nerves starting to get to you as she was making that comeback in the final set? 

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yeah, I can say like -- yeah, I can say like this.  But then I can say Justine played really well.  I can't take this from her.  She played unbelievable.  She started serving much better.  I don't think there was any double-faults after 5-1.  I mean, she did what she can do and she won the match.  She deserve that.

Q.  Did you feel fitter than her?  She didn't play for months. 

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  I mean, she's been practicing.  I knew that she's on top of her game because I watched last night match against Mary.  And, I mean, Justine play as good as she played before.  I was ready for the good match.  I guess it was good match. 

Q.  Obviously, we can see you're extremely upset.  You've said so.  How are you going to get yourself back up for the bronze medal playoff?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  That's the hardest part because we never did this, you know.  Usually in tennis, when you lose, you go home.  It's something new, so I should get used to it.  I'll just maybe going to party right now and then I will be okay to play tomorrow.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT