OLYMPIC TENNIS TOURNAMENT
August 19, 2004
Anastasia Myskina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  First question, please.  
 
 
Q.  Did you expect to win so easily? 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Not really.  I mean, we played before couple matches, and they were in three sets.  So I thought this one going to be even tougher because it's Olympic Games.  No, I didn't really expect.  But I'm really happy it was that easy.  
 
Q.  What was the reason why it was so easy, in your opinion?  Because you played very well; because she played less well than expected? 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  I don't know why.  I think I played okay.  I didn't say that I play my best.  I didn't say that I play really bad.  I just play.  I did what I can do.  That was okay match.  That's it.  But maybe Francesca was feeling pressure.  Maybe she was a little bit, I don't know, scared, thinking she can win.  I don't know.  So many reasons can be.  But I didn't really think about it.  
 
Q.  Last year you were close to losing to Serra-Zanetti at US Open.  She was playing very slow, trying to mix up the game.  Francesca was trying to do the same, in your opinion, or she plays a really different game?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  No.  She plays slowly, but the game was different because Francesca tried to mix it up a lot with slice, high ball, you know, and didn't really work because actually I expect that game, and I knew what she's going to do, and I can read the game pretty well.  So I play real easy.  
 
Q.  You've had a very big triumph this year at the French Open.  I'm wondering if you could explain what it must be like for Maria Sharapova, based on your own experience, how something like this changes your life. 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Oh, I think it's a lot of changes.  I think especially with Maria, I think it's different situation.  With me, Maria is different situation because she's really popular in US.  I think she become even more popular there.  With me situation, I become a little bit more popular in my home country.  So that's the difference.  Where is change?  I think you get more confidence now when you go on the court.  You feel more comfortable in every match, and you know how to play in different situation because, especially Maria, she was down with Lindsay set and 2-1, I guess.  So now she knows the match not finished, so she can fight and win the match. 
 
Q.  Do you feel like a different person because of the way people look at you now? 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yeah, maybe a little bit more respect.  But I don't feel really different person.  I try to not change.  You know, I stay the same.  I love to be the way I am. 
 
Q.  Can you really stay the same, though?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yeah.  Why not?  That's not really difficult.  
 
Q.  Considering that some girls, top seeds, have lost, dangerous ones like Venus, Dementieva, do you think you have great chances now to go on and get the gold?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Besides Dementieva and Williams, I think we have Henin-Hardenne and Amelie Mauresmo.  I think they a little bit higher than Williams and Dementieva.  But why not?  I really work hard to be here, and I really work hard to win matches.  So I'm look forward and I'm really positive.  
 
Q.  What are people saying about Justine?  She's been away from the tour.  Have you seen any of her matches?  Are people trying to see where she is?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  I didn't see her matches because we kind of playing the same time.  But we thought it was going to be really hard for her to come back.  But it looks she's really on top of her game right now.  She's winning pretty easy every match.  But I think against Mary it's going to be a little bit tougher because Mary playing really great right now.  It's going to be good match.  So I really look forward to seeing right now.  
 
Q.  You said something interesting a minute ago about Maria.  You said you're more popular in your home country.  But Russia is Maria's home country.  Do you consider her not really Russian?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  No, she's completely Russian.  I didn't say that.  She's Russian.  I'm not going to catch that (smiling).  
 
Q.  Justine Henin, she has not played for four months.  She didn't play since April, even if she went just one match in Roland Garros.  Do you think once she has a tough opponent like you would be for her, this would be a big disadvantage for her, lacking competition?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  No.  I think she's ready to play because she played a couple matches here, and I think she's ready to play a good match against Mary.  I think she's been practicing pretty hard before Olympics.  That's why she's here.  It means that she ready to play and she ready to win, otherwise she wouldn't be here.  
 
Q.  Would you trade an Olympic gold medal for a French Open title? 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Hard question.  Just wish to have both of those (smiling).  
 
Q.  Did you have any conversations with Maria after she won Wimbledon about how to deal with a big triumph like that?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  I saw her in San Diego after Wimbledon, and I just congratulate her.  That's pretty much it.  
 
Q.  You didn't say like "Welcome to the club" or anything?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Nobody say to me "Welcome to the club," so...  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT