OLYMPIC TENNIS TOURNAMENT
August 16, 2004
Anastasia Myskina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  Would you have liked a longer match than that after coming from a different tournament?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Oh, no, definitely not.  Because, I mean, the condition's pretty tough.  It's windy and it's really hot.  So I don't want to be in the court longer than - I don't know - 40, 45 minutes.   The match is pretty good.  I'm really happy that it was good end.

Q.  Can you talk a little bit about the foot problem, was it the foot problem that caused you to leave Poland early?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  No, no, my ribs.

Q.  Ribs, okay.  What was the problem and is it gone?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  No, it cannot be gone that fast (smiling).  So I still have problem but it's not really -- I mean, it's affect a little bit my serve but not really in this condition.  I have a good physio here, so and they treat me well.  I hope for the next match I'm gonna be good, ready.

Q.  Can you play six matches?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yeah, definitely. 

Q.  I was wondering if you could comment on the situation of Russian women's tennis, the fact that it's been improving so quickly?  Seems to be a whole generation of you, the Russian women had never had a Grand Slam title before this year.  Suddenly there are two.  What do you think the reasons for that might be?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Oh, I think because we have a good competition with each other, like we really push each other like behind the back.  So many good girls who wants to be ahead of me, and I know that, so it push me to practice harder and play every tournament for 100%.  Definitely for them is the same thing.  Like I won a Grand Slam, and next Grand Slam won Maria because she saw that it's possible.  And if everybody start believing in themself, then I guess that's the key. 

Q.  Have you noticed a difference since the French and Wimbledon, not just for yourself but among the Russians?  Is there a greater sense of belief now you and Maria have done that?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yeah, definitely.  I mean, we are starting -- definitely we improve our tennis.  We start to be more aggressive on the court.  We have all kind of players who can serve really well, who can play baseline and serve and hopefully serve and volley.  So I think we just improve our tennis.  But it helps also because we're not practicing all in Russia.  Like Maria practice in US, Petrova is in Holland, Kuznetsova in Spain, so we get something new from different countries, and then we play really good right now.

Q.  Are you happy with your hard court form?  You did reasonably well in California and Canada. 

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yeah, I was playing really good in San Diego.  It was tough matches.  Montreal was pretty good.  Yeah, I'm really happy. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT