WIMBLEDON
June 24, 2004
Anastasia Myskina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Anastasia. 


Q.  Maybe a bit of a tough game today.  Showed a different side to your game to come back. 

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  I would say it was really bad game because -- maybe because of the condition, maybe because I'm, you know, yesterday I didn't practice at all because of the weather.  I didn't want to hit indoor.  And I'm a little bit tired after the French Open.  You know, it was really hard.  Kapros play -- I don't think she play bad.  She play pretty good for her game.  I wasn't surprised that she can hit the ball as hard as she did today.  So that's the thing. 

Q.  How did you find the delay here with the rain and being out on court late?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yeah, that was hard, as well, because I was here like whole day.  I was really tired at the end of the day.  You have to fight.  You know, you have to play  because right now, every girl really want to beat you.  They want to play good against you, so you have to try even harder.  And it was hard.

Q.  But it must give you confidence now?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  The one thing I think was my serve was pretty good, so it really give me confidence in my serve because I won lot of points on my serve.  But in the game, I can't say really a lot of confidence.  I'm just really happy I went through this match. 

Q.  Another seed went out today. 

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Venus.

Q.  Do you maybe look at the list and think, "Maybe I won't have to play her now"? 

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  You know, Sprem, she's really dangerous on the grass, and clay.  She hit the ball unbelievably hard.  I can't say whether I prefer Sprem or Venus right now.  I just know this girl coming and she going to be pretty good. 

Q.  You mentioned you were tired after the French Open.  There's only a two-week gap between the French Open and Wimbledon, clay and grass being as opposite surfaces as you can get.  Would you like to see more of a gap?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yeah, definitely would be like -- even would be three weeks, it would be much better, because then you can play something before Wimbledon.  I couldn't play because I was really exhausted.  So, yeah, I prefer longer time between the Grand Slams.

Q.  Is this something you would consider approaching the WTA about?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Definitely we talk about that.  But, you know, the schedule pretty tough because of the Olympic Games this year.  You know, it's hard to move the tournaments because they every year the same week.  Of course, they think about it, but it's pretty tough for them. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT