AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 21, 2006
Anastasia Myskina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  You seem to be starting the year off quite well. 

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Well, been practicing pretty hard and really want to do well here because it's the first Grand Slam.  And I think how you start and you gonna get some confidence and you gonna play well then. 

Q.  2005 was a tough year for you for several reasons.  I mean, everything appears to be now back on track.  How much ground do you think you've got to make up? 

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Well, you know, I took a long break after Zurich.  I didn't play any tournaments.  Even that if I would play Linz and then maybe Philadelphia, I had a chance to be in championship, I still decide not playing.  Because I need a break because I understood if I will practice well, then this year would be much better for me.  And of course the family reason.  Now it's -- everything is good.  I'm happy and I'm really enjoy the time that I spend on the court right now.

Q.  When did that break finish and you got back on the practice court?  It wasn't just December time.  Was it earlier than that?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Well, I start practice in December, December first.  I also spend New Year at home.  I change this time.  I didn't come to Australia really early.  I think that helped a lot because I spend lot of time with my family and it gave me lot of energy, no, and energy to play and be here right now. 

Q.  But the only drawback of that is getting used to the heat, and it was getting hot out there today?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yeah, I came one week early in Australia so it's good enough.

Q.  Is that enough?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  For me, yes. 

Q.  How long a break did you end up taking? 

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Well, was -- the break was like more than month, so it was good one. 

Q.  Didn't pick up a racquet at all?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  No. 

Q.  Is that the first time for a long time?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yes, definite.  There was no nothing.  No gym.  No tennis.  I was just sleep, eat, and I felt great. 

Q.  You've consistently reached the fourth round and quarterfinals here in the last few years.  Do you feel you're ready to take the next step?  It's a very open-looking women's draw?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Well, you still have to take really seriously each match because every girl trying pretty hard.  Next match, I'm not really think it's really open draw because Patty or this Nakamura girl, they, both of them, really good players, especially Patty.  But I think if I play my best, then I can win next match.  I really love Australia and I love Melbourne.  Doesn't matter how I play here, just really enjoy the time that I be here before and right now.

Q.  What pleased you most about today's match? 

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  That it finish really like one hour, because was so hot.  Even right now, the players not playing because the heat on.  I'm really happy that I finish pretty early. 

Q.  How tough was the wind making it out there for you?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yeah, that's definite not my -- well, I don't like wind and I don't really know how to use the wind when I play.  So today I was really concentrating, focus for each point, and try to play every ball and fight for every point. 

Q.  Was it blowing from one end to the other, or was it gusting around?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  No, it was gusting around.  That's the tougher part right now. 

Q.  Were you trying to play a less aggressive game than you would normally because of the wind? 

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  No.  I try to play my game and I try to hit the ball.  But sometimes, you know, it's stupid to hit if you know the wind's against you or if you play with the wind.  So you have to think a lot in this conditions.  I think I do this well sometimes. 

Q.  Do you think you've improved with every game, every match this week? 

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yeah, definite.  Improving my serve.  And I really practice hard on my serve.  Even that maybe not the best, but I felt really my second serve improved.

Q.  How far off your best do you think you are right now? 

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Well, it's tough to say really.  It depends, you know.  I really don't really know.  But if I will play my best, I can play pretty good here. 

Q.  When you see your ranking slip out of the top 10, is that something that overly concerns you, or are you confident that when you start playing your best tennis again, that's going to come back again?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Oh, definite depends how you play.  You play bad, you drop.  You play good, you go up.  Right?  So if I can play my best, then I can go in top 10 again.  When I saw that I'm 14 or 12, you know, I didn't feel anything because I realized that I wasn't play that good.  I'm not good enough for top 10 right now definite.  That's why I'm not there.  But if I can fight and, you know, being like - I don't know - calm on the court, then I can be top 10 again. 

Q.  No breathing problems like you had in your last round today? 

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  No, because was fast match.  Before, with Jackson, was pretty tough.  We play like long match, so...

Q.  Can you explain just a little bit about what happened against Jackson.  You had trouble breathing?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Well, yes.  I don't know even why it's happen, but definitely was not as hot as like right now.  For me maybe was long match.  It was two hours almost.  I couldn't catch my breath.  The doctor really helped me at that time. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT