AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 26, 2004
Anastasia Myskina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Anastasia. 
 
 
Q.  When things aren't going well in your match, and you turn around, you're demonstrative, almost like a dialogue you're having with your coach out there, what is going on at that point?  It's different from any other player on tour, the way you communicate your frustration. 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  That was in the first set, and was kind of nervous because it was a close set.  You know, just too emotional at that point.  And just said that he's kind of like a wall there, that he has to show me something, show some emotions to me.  He has to give me something back. 
 
Q.  "A wall," did you say?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yeah. 
 
Q.  Were you annoyed that he was sitting sort of too quietly and watching?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yeah, that's what I mean (smiling). 
 
Q.  Is that a recurring thing?  Is that the first time you've had that frustration?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  No, I know it's not the best part of me.  Yeah, sometimes I lose the concentration a bit.  Yeah, I try to -- I'm spoke to my coach during the matches.  You know, it's the weak thing, and I'm try just -- you know, try to do my best the next matches and try to concentrate better. 
 
Q.  You get to the end of the match, you win, obviously you're happy.  Do you look back on that and think, "That's the red haze of battle"?  How do you look back on that now after you're feeling okay?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Just try not think about it.  I know it's not the best part of me, so I just try to work on this.  It's pretty hard.  But hopefully we'll work on that.  
 
Q.  One of the stronger aspects of your game from my view was, despite the errors, you still played your shots, you're always going for the lines, the winners. 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yeah, I try.  Especially with Chanda, I knew that I have to put pressure her a lot, because otherwise if you give her finger, she's going to take a whole hand.  I tried to put pressure a lot.  And even that I knew that I'm going to miss couple shots, I still played really well today and I knew I'm going to win if I play that way. 
 
Q.  You just thought if you were playing at your best today, Chanda would struggle to beat you?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yes, definitely.  I know Chanda sometimes, even that she upset, couple more games in second set, she still can struggle, start to struggle in the match.  I just knew that I have to put pressure, lots of pressure on her. 
 
Q.  When you watched from the other side, she doesn't seem to give a lot away with her emotions.  Can you tell whether she's getting frustrated with the way you're putting pressure on her?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yeah, maybe I can tell because I played a lot of matches against her.  I know that especially when it's deuce or it's 4-All, 5-All, she can struggle.  But today it was my turn to struggle in 5-All.  But I just try to play every point in the second set, and I think I did really well.  
 
Q.  You feel ready now for what's going to come, for a big breakthrough? 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Kim right now, unbelievable.  I just have to play even better than I played today.  I mean, if I'm going to play like a second and third set, I think it's going to be tough for Kim, and I think it's going to be good match.  
 
Q.  Do you feel ready for the real breakthrough, getting to the semis of Grand Slams?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Hopefully, yes.  I was working pretty hard before Australia.  Yeah, that was one of my goal, to play better than quarterfinal because I'm not really satisfy with quarterfinal already.  It was last year quarterfinal, US Open quarterfinal, so I think now I'm ready to play better and do better.  
 
Q.  You beat Kim twice, last year in Leipzig due to injury.  You beat her at Wimbledon once.  Did you use any specific tactics for this victory?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  In the Wimbledon was really long time ago.  Leipzig, like you said, there was injury, so I didn't really win that match.  Against Kim, you just have to do your best.  Not 100%, I have to give like 300%.  If you're able to give this percentage, you can beat her.  But it's really hard right now because she's -- I mean, she's the best one right now.  
 
Q.  What makes her so tough to beat?  What are her strong points?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  She's really fast, she's really strong, and she's not going to give you any ball, easy ball, so you have to fight for every point, and you have to make a winner, and you have to make a point. 
 
Q.  What do you think it would be like being your coach?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Oh, you should ask my coach.  It's not easy, for sure.  I'm really tough girl on the court, really nice off the court.  You know, on the court, I'm not nice.  Maybe that helps to win the matches, the hard matches, you know.  But you should ask my coach, not me. 
 
Q.  Do you feel like you take on a different personality when you walk out on the court than how you are off it?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  I just walk and I just play.  You know, yeah, I can get angry sometimes because in my level, you cannot to miss easy shots.  In my level, you have to win a lot.  And sometimes, you know, I still losing some girls,  you know, who's not in my level, and I really get angry. 
 
Q.  Do you apologize when you walk off the court?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yes, definitely.  
 
Q.  Really?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yes.  But he knows me.  He knows that I'm not really mean it, the whole thing that happen on the court.  He knows me really well.  He knows that I'm really emotional.  But it's only on the court.  
 
Q.  It must be difficult, given those circumstances, to have that wall between the professional and personal sides of your relationship?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  What do you mean?  
 
Q.  Your coach is your boyfriend, as well. 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  No, he's not.  
 
Q.  You and Marat, you could be brother and sister, you're like his soul sister.  What do you reckon it is about the Russian character that produces wonderfully temperamental tennis players?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  I think we're really working hard to be here.  We really want to be one of the best tennis players in the world.  Marat, we really emotional.  Maybe that helps us on the court.  We fight, we run, we try to get every point.  We not going to give anything just like this.  Well, we grow up together.  I think that's why we play good. 
 
Q.  You were coached by his mom? 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yes, yes.  
 
Q.  Does that explain any of the sort of similarities?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  She give us great basis, I think.  You know, my forehand and backhand, she gave it to me.  Like she taught me how to play tennis.  So I think that's why I play really well right now.  I really appreciate her everything that she done for me.  
 
Q.  Do you ever look at the other girls who keep everything calm and focused and wish you could be like that?  Do you think you're you and that's how it's going to be?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  You know, I am the way I am.  If nobody likes me the way I am, I'm sorry.  But I think, you know, I'm really nice - too nice (laughter). 
 
Q.  We're not saying we don't like you, but it's interesting.  When you were a little girl... 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  I was too quiet.  
 
Q.  You had tantrums. 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  I was really quiet when I was little, you know. Maybe that's why right now everything comes from me.  
 
Q.  You've never showed that to Safin's mother?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  No, I couldn't.  She was really tough coach, you know.  She was always -- you know, she put pressure on us, so we were really quiet. 
 
Q.  She already had a boy?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yes.  She was tough coach. 
 
Q.  When you grow up in Russia as an Anastasia, is there an expectation that you're going to be a bit tempestuous?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  No.  When I was growing up, I couldn't even travel, because it was Soviet Union.  I didn't know if the (inaudible) going to change.  I just played for, you know, like -- I was energetic kid, so I had to put my energy somewhere.  But I still was quiet kid.  So that's why I play tennis, you know.  
 
Q.  Maybe silly question, but who is nicer off the court, Kim Clijsters or you?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  I think we are the same.  No, Kim really nice.  Nicer than me, for sure.  
 
Q.  How did you change your game from the first set to the second set?  You've spoken about how nervous you were in the first set.  It changed so quickly, you got on top quickly in the second set.  How did that all change?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  I find my focus again, and just refocus in the second set.  Was less unforced errors, for sure, and more winners.  More clean tennis.  I was serving better, and I think I did everything much better.  I don't know, it was because I was refocused, I guess, in the second, third set.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT