US OPEN
September 4, 2003
Anastasia Myskina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.


Q.  How difficult is it to finish a match against a player like Mary Pierce in the day, then have to play the No. 2 seed in the tournament later that same night? 

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  I think it's okay because we didn't play that long.  I mean, that was just couple of games.  So it was like warm-up for me.  I played really well so I hope I'm gonna play the same level tonight - if we gonna play. 

Q.  Are you sure you're gonna play tonight? 

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  I'm... No. 

Q.  You're scheduled?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yes, we're scheduled second after 7.  You never know what's gonna happen with rain here.  It's like Wimbledon. 

Q.  Is that the oddest match of your career, that it took, what, four days to complete it?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Longest one in my career, for sure.  Hardest one because it's really tough conditioning.  You on and off all the time.  You never know what's gonna happen in the next 10 minutes.  It's hard.

Q.  What is the attitude of the players in the lounge?  The rain keeps coming, there's nothing you can do, you're trapped here.  How does that feel?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  I don't know, really.  I think everybody just kind of trying to focus.  But just sad little bit because everybody wants to play already because it takes forever, you know.  Everybody wants to leave or play next round, you know.  It's really hard for everybody.  But everybody have fun. 

Q.  Nobody criticizing the schedule? 

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  But I don't think it's really something we can do with schedule.  It's really hard for tournament also.  I mean, it's raining and you never know what's gonna happen.  Men has to play five sets.  I think it's even harder because they still in the fourth round.  So it's really hard.

Q.  Do they ask you if you wanted to play two matches today? 

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Not really.  They just told me that I have to play, because they still want to play Saturday women's final, so...

Q.  Have they mentioned a possibility that if you can't play tonight that you may have to play a quarterfinal and possibly a semifinal tomorrow? 

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  No, not really, because actually they still think that we can play tonight. 

Q.  If that would be the case, to play quarterfinal and semifinal in the same day, would you do it?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yeah, why not?  I mean, maybe not (smiling).  I don't know.  I mean...

Q.  Would that be fair at a major tournament, the US Open, to have to play a quarterfinal and semifinal in the same day?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Like, my opinion, you're a professional tennis player, you have to prepare for everything.  If you're here, you have to play.  If it's raining, you can't play.  If they tell you you have to play two matches, you have to play.  So I'm ready to play. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT