AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 22, 2003
Anastasia Myskina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  How had she improved since you played her last?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  I think Kim improve a lot.  She didn't lot of mistake like usually.  Before we play, she was rushing all the time on the court and she did a lot of mistake, unforced errors.  But today wasn't like in Leipzig.  It was much better.  I think she much better right now. 

Q.  You were very nervous at the start.  Any reason for that?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yeah.  I think Rod Laver in the first quarterfinal.  But I wasn't that nervous like usually.  But I think Kim play really good today.  I did my best. 

Q.  Do you think she has the firepower to take on the No.  1 and 2 seeds?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  I think Kim right now the best player in the world.  What I think right now. 

Q.  How do you see her matching up with Serena in particular?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Kim beat her last time in Championships.  I think she have a good chance here to win the whole Australia Open, because I think she really feel like she play home here.  The crowd really support her.  She much better  -- not much better, but I think she better than Serena and Venus right now.  More confidence right now I think than Serena and Venus. 

Q.  Is there a sense among other players that it will be a good thing if one of you can break through against the Williams sisters?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Justine have a good chance tomorrow against Venus, I think.  We have many players who can fight against them.  Loit show us in the first round we all can play against Venus and Serena.  I think all of them have a good chance.

Q.  Do the players support more Kim and Justine more than Serena and Venus because of the dominance of the sisters?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  No.  We all try to be friendly to each other.  You travel every week.  You have to see each other every week.  It's hard to be really angry to each other.  So I think you have to be really friendly.  So we all the same like with Venus and with Kim. 

Q.  Are you happy with your campaign in the Australian Open this year?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yeah, of course.  I'm really happy.  I'm really happy that it's finished and I can go home.  I'm really tired because it was hard one week and a half for me, but I really happy. 

Q.  Kim made a lot of errors on her forehand.  Were you playing to that particularly?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  I think she did a lot of winners also from forehand.  It's hard to say where she going to miss, where she not.  So you have to fight.  You have to play.  You can't just think with Kim where is she going to miss because she really confidence on the court, so you have to win the point. 

Q.  How did you feel after the first set?  She hardly gave you a chance. 

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yeah, there was a chance for me in the second set.  I didn't took it.  But I think in the second set was much better than the first.  I tried my best, but lost. 

Q.  Is she now your favorite to win the tournament?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yeah, I think so. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT