adidas International
January 6, 2003
Anastasia Myskina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 

THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Anastasia, please. 


Q.  I'm just doing a little story on the Russians of tennis, the great resurgence.  You've got 10 girls in the Top 100.  Why do you think that is so? 

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  I think because - I don't know.  We just good.  We try to be good.  We try to be better than anyone here, and I think that's why we 10 out of the Top 100. 

Q.  Do you think it has anything to do with after the Soviet Union split up and all the other countries became fragmented, like Uzbekistan, etc., is that possible?  Another reason?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yeah, for sure, definitely.  Because we can travel more, we can play more tournaments.  When it was Soviet Union, just two players from country can travel.  But now anyone who has money can travel.  So I think, of course, it's that also. 

Q.  Is it fair to say that there is a certain amount of freedom that you saw in the west and the culture and the civilization in the west, compared to the eastern bloc countries? 

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yeah, we have more freedom right now.  I mean, we have freedom.  We can do whatever we want to do.  We can practice in the United States if you want, or it doesn't matter where.  We can practice anywhere.  And just have freedom. 

Q.  Before that, you could only stay back home in the Soviet Union, and a huge percentage of your prize money would stay back in Russia? 

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yes, it was before like this.  But I was too small, so I played just Juniors when it was Soviet Union.  But a lot of players said it was like this.  They took money - almost everything. 

Q.  Do you live anywhere else besides Moscow now?  Do you have a place in another part of the world where you live? 

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  No, I live in Moscow.

Q.  You call that home?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yes. 

Q.  What happened at the end of the match? 

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  That was not really good match today, of course.  But I just arrive yesterday, and for me it's really hot.  It's just different, you know?  And the wind and Centre Court, so it was a little bit not  -- uncomfortable today. 

Q.  You were like two warriors out there.  You had your right shoulder strapped, and Elena had her left thigh strapped.  Have you been carrying that injury for some time, from last year into this year?  What is the problem? 

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  I have small tear in my shoulder, so it's not the small problem.  It's a big one.  So I hope it's gonna be better.  But I don't know.  Maybe I will have a surgery, but it's not 100 percent yet. 

Q.  You will play the Australian Open?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yeah, I will. 

Q.  There was some talk with the umpire at the end of the match between the girls.  What was going on? 

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Well, Elena said that the ball was out in the end of the second set.  I didn't see, and she said that the guy, the linesman, was sleeping the whole match.  So I don't know.  I don't think there is talk after the match, especially if you won. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT