HOME DEPOT CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 7, 2002
Anastasia Myskina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Was that her playing too well or did you just not play the way you wanted to play?  

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  It was the worst match in my whole year.  She hit very hard and I played not really good.  

Q.  It's seems like you are really upset.  Did you put too much pressure on yourself to play well here?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yes, sure.  It was my first championship and I wanted to play good, but actually I wasn't that good.

Q.  Despite playing so bad, you were in that last game too.  You had your break point chances.  Did you feel like you were still in the match there?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yeah, I was, I was, but I was a little bit out, but I'm happy the year is finished so I can go relax.

Q.  Was it just pressure or was it some fatigue or lack of preparation for this tournament?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  No.  It was more pressure and I was a little bit tired, so I don't think it's really being tired, but it's more pressure than anything else.

Q.  Can you be disturbed with the pressure sometimes or is it the first time in the season?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  It's hard with you first championship, everybody watching you and expecting you to play good tennis and people watching.  I was really uptight today and couldn't play the way I had to play today.

Q.  Is it as much pressure compared to your first Gland Slam?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  It's even more, because it's the top 16.  You know, you want to show people that you're really the best 16.  You want to maybe play higher than you can.

Q.  How long are you going to rest now?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  I hope for two weeks max, and then we have to prepare for next year, so not that long.

Q.  Is it really the worst you've played all year or do you feel so bad that it feels like the worst?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Right now I feel it's really the worst, but maybe in the beginning of the year I played not good too, but today I feel really bad.  I feel it's the worst match in my life.

Q.  Is it really disappointing to finish off the season playing your worst match?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Of course, but I'm happy that I finished the championship, not a week ago, but, of course, I'm excited.  I played not that good, but still we have next year, so I will be ready.

Q.  When you say you're going to take two weeks off, does that mean you really aren't going to hit any tennis balls at all?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  No.  I'm going to send my racket straight to Russia and go the opposite way.

Q.  What was your preparation like for the tournament?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  I was here in LA, but it doesn't help.  I was practicing outside and my shoulder wasn't that good, so I had treatment.  It's still not the best, not enough treatment.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT