PILOT PEN TENNIS
August 23, 2002
Anastasia Myskina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
WTA TOUR:  Questions, please. 
 
 
Q.  You didn't seem quite as sharp as you were last night?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA: (Inaudible) I slept not really good because we finished late and I was really tired.  Lindsay played good really good.  
 
Q.  What made it so difficult to hold your serve?  What was she doing that was so challenging?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA: Returned really good and I knew that I have to hold my serve so it is kind of pressure and I knew my serve not the best, so I was a little bit pressure on me.  I did a lot of unforced errors and doubles faults. 
 
Q.  Describe the difference with your two opponents.
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA: Lindsay, I mean, she hit harder than Martina for sure.  And with Martina, it was like more mentally game.  With Lindsay, it is more like boom, boom.  It was harder for me.  
 
Q.  Physically or mentally because coming off a big win over Martina last night you didn't have much time.  Was it more harder mentally to be focused?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA: Yeah, and physically, for sure.  I was really tired.  My legs kind of -- I couldn't move really good today.  And I know with Lindsay you have to be ready 100% to beat her.  And I wasn't.  
 
Q.  Are you surprised Lindsay is playing so well after being off the Tour for so many months?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA: I know that she's supposed to play Wimbledon and so she was ready for the Wimbledon, but I think she's really good right now and she's practiced hard and I think she's really back.  
 
Q.  You had two wins this week over Top-10 players.  How are you feeling about your chances at the Open?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA: I have a good draw, not bad.  I play Marta Marrero first round, so it was good tournament for me and I am ready for hard courts.  I hope it is going to be good next week. 
 
Q.   If her game is together Lindsay might have an advantage in the fact that she hasn't gone through the whole season, she may be a little fresher if her game is together.  Is that a factor at this point because she hasn't played all year; in one way she maybe fresher?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA: Yeah, maybe.  I played for sure a lot, but I think just did a lot of unforced errors and that's why I lost today.  
 
Q.  What do you think you have to do now to get to continue to improve? 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA: I have to improve my serve for sure and maybe physically a little bit  -- I am ready and I played good and I feel really good right now.  So I am just tired a little bit.  So relax and next week I am going to be okay. 
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT