ROGERS CUP
August 20, 2005
Anastasia Myskina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Anastasia please. 
 
 
Q.  It was great fight, especially in the first set? 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yeah it was -- it was really good match I think.  I don't know.  And hopefully everybody happy with this, my performance, and especially in the first set like you said.  
 
Q.  Can you tell us a little bit about what sort of thought process you go through when you're playing a good friend.  Is it something you us just cancel out entirely or is to hard to forget that Kim's a buddy? 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Well, it's a tough -- both of us understand it's just a game really, you know.  Of course, it's money, for people, for like points.  But still you know that on court.  Off the court, no matter what going to happen on the court, we're going to be friends.  I just really was thinking to play good match.  
 
Q.  Was there a difference in your ankle between the first match and the second match, or was it just a tiredness or can you tell us what the difference was? 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  My leg feel much, much better.  And, well, it's definitely not a hundred percentage, but it's really good.  Of course, I was a little bit tired because I play a lot of matches before, but it still was good match. 
 
Q.  Does this mean your confidence and fighting spirit are back? 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yes, it looks much better right now.  I look more happy on the court for sure.  
 
Q.  She didn't really give you too many dropshots, but moved you around quite a bit.  Talk about some of the rallies, what you notice of her play this summer, and specifically today? 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  I know Kim really well, the way she play.  Also I know her game.  And, well, she did a good thing to move me around.  Then I get really tired by the second set.  So that's the way she should play against me.  That's the way she played.  
 
Q.  Can you just elaborate what you have seen from her this summer.  She seems like of the top players heading into the Open, having one two tournaments here, two, three earlier coming back from her injury. 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  I think she's really tough person.  She came back from this big injury and still winning almost every tournament.  Think it great for her, and I really happy for her, and I think she's going to play really well at the US Open.  
 
Q.  It was 4-4 in the first set there, and then all of a sudden she won two games very quickly.  You said you got tired in the second set.  I imagine you would have a little more energy in the second.  Had you managed to win that first set,  it probably would have helped your mentally and energy and maybe would have a third set after that? 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Well, if I would win first set maybe that would be different, of course, in the second.  I lost the set, so I don't even really think about what would happen if I don't win first set. 
 
Q.  What are you going to do next week? 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  I am not sure right now.  But playing -- I supposed to play New Haven.  But we will see really.  
 
Q.  Knowing Kim the way you do, could you just talk about how she's rebounded, not only from the injury, but personal stuff too, obviously Lleyton.  It seems like she's really become a stronger person on and off the court.  Do you see that? 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Well, she's happy.  That's the most important thing right now.  I can't really discuss about her life because really it's a private thing.  I just really happy for her if she's happy.  
 
Q.  So you notice a difference, more of a bounce and a smile from her? 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yeah, you can see that.  Of course, it's a good thing.  
 
Q.  The younger group of players coming up are not Russian.  Is there a little bit of gap with Russians now, 15, 16, 17-year-old girls not as strong?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  No, I don't really know really.  Because we have so many girls right now, girls who is playing right now.  They are still young.  Maybe for 15, 16 too early to play on the tour because they just really young for that.  
 
Q.  Is there  maybe a 13- or 14-year-old Russian?  You haven't heard of anybody?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  No.  Sorry.  Maybe soon.  I don't know.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT