PILOT PEN TENNIS
August 22, 2002
Anastasia Myskina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Down a set breakpoint for 5-1, you come back and win.  How did you turn it around?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA: Just I was focused and was thinking I am not thinking this court, just fight every ball, concentrate and every point and my best.

Q.  You played well in the first set and then had a few errors in the tiebreak.  Did that kind of lead to a little bit of a let-down at the beginning of the second?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA: I was a little bit tired in the end of the first set because it was really long set and a lot of points, long points, and it was hard.  Then just feel a little bit tired.  Martina start playing a little bit faster, so I start kind of missing balls.

Q.  Did you sense that Martina was fatiguing there towards the end of the second set?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA: For sure it's hard for her because it's second tournament for her, and she was really tired, and I saw this, and I just tried to keep move her.  And that's what I did today.

Q.  Martina said your backhand was particularly effective down-the-line.  That's not unusual with you?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA: I practice really hard my backhand that I can show you this today. 

Q.  How big have these last two days been for you?   Can you kind of describe it?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA: I am really happy.  I don't know what to say.  I am just really happy. 

Q.  Although it was 5-Love in the third set as you were serving for it, so you had plenty of a cushion there, but were you nervous knowing that you had a chance here to serve out a victory against her?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA: I don't know, I am just play every point, not thinking about the score because it was 4-1 for her in the second set, so everything can happen, even I can be 5-Love up in the third and can lose 7-5.  So I wasn't thinking the score, just play your serve, was good serve. 

Q.  Hingis said the pivotal moment for her when she failed to go up 5-1 in the second set.  Do you remember that time?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA: I don't remember even.  No, I don't remember. 

Q.  When you are down 4-1, what is your mindset there?   Are you just trying to win one game or two games there before you get back into it?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA: I am just watch my father and he was really angry because I miss a lot of balls, was a lot of unforced errors and I was thinking that I have to fight for sure because otherwise not going to be nice talk after the match.  And I won 6-Love in the third.  It works. 

Q.  Father always been your coach?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA: No.  Just I think since last year, yeah, I had a coach before but I change him.

Q.  You said yesterday that part of what drives you to excel is of pride in your country.  You must feel proud after these couple of days?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA: Yeah, really proud, and I hope somebody can write in Russian newspaper that I won today.  I hope everybody remember me in Russia.  I am just proud. 

Q.  You are going to be facing Davenport tomorrow.  What is your record against her and what is your strategy going to be?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA: I think record I won three games last year.  It's not really good record.  But try to do my best tomorrow and I am looking forward to tomorrow.  She's really great player and I think she's back from the surgery, and she's played really well.  I saw her match today.  She played good. 

Q.  You feel as though right now that you are the best of the Russian women players in tennis, the No. 1 question player for the women, right?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA: No, Dementieva is still No. 1.  Maybe I will move and I will be No. 1, of course I am going to be really happy, because I really try to be No. 1 in Russia right now.  Then maybe No. 1 in the world. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT