NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 24, 2002
Anastasia Myskina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  


Q.  Can you just talk about the match.  You came really close to pulling off a big upset.  Just what was the key?  You were up 5-4 with a chance to win it. 

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  I'm serve not really good my whole match.  So I think that's key that I lose this match.  But I played really good except serve.  So it was really close.  But I'm happy that I showed my game, so it's good. 

Q.  Talk about where your mind was in the second.  Did you think, "I'm going to do it?  I'm going to win today?  I'm going to beat the No. 1 player"? 

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  I'm not thinking about this because if you were thinking, you would lose for sure.  So I'm not thinking, I just play my game.  But she start play very well last two games in the second set.  So I miss a little bit and she start to play really good.

Q.  Where are you from in Russia?  Do you live here also? 

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  No, I live in Moscow, Russia, but I practice sometimes in LA.  But usually I'm at home. 

Q.  What does it do for your confidence or for you knowing that you're able to keep up with the No. 1 player? 

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  I was ready because I play really good before in Doha, Dubai, I played three sets with Venus.  I just start feeling that I can beat some top players.  And I can be there, like, Top 10, Top 20.  So maybe if you sure that you can play really good, maybe that's why you play really good and start beat some people, play close with them. 

Q.  How important were the breaks in the match?  It seemed like no one was really able to hold serve toward the end. 

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  It's really important.  You see 6-3, 5-4.  If you serve good, you win matches.  So you beat first racquet in the world.  And if you don't have a serve, you start to lose and maybe it's just because you think it was 6-3, 5-4, you're serving.  And that's the key. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT