ROGERS CUP
August 19, 2005
Anastasia Myskina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  
 
 
Q.  Obviously, the first one is:  How do you feel? 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Happy.  I'm happy that I was able to push myself today in playing I think pretty good.  I'm just really happy with that. 
 
Q.  That was quite a thing you had on your ankle with the two splints on both sides.  Was it uncomfortable? 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  You know, I didn't really feel uncomfortable.  I just felt big help from this cast because at least it was holding my ankle and it was much better with this cast.  
 
Q.  Were you feeling a lot of pain?  You didn't seem to look like you were in pain.  Was it causing you pain? 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Well, it depends on the moves.  Some moves it really bothers me, but some of them was okay.  I didn't really think that Gisela played really smart with me today, so that was big advantage for me.  Definitely, the dropshot was the key, but she didn't use it.  
 
Q.  Did you feel like you were getting more comfortable as the match went on?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yeah, that was also a good thing because, you know, maybe the blood was circulate in this spot (pointing to ankle).  By end of match I felt much better than in the beginning.  
 
Q.  Was there ever a time either last night or this morning when you didn't think you were going to play?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Well, last night I had acupuncture and it hurt so badly.  At that time, when the needle was in my leg, I felt I'm not going to even move any more (laughter).  
 
Q.  Have you had acupuncture on injured parts of your body before or was that a new experience?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  No, I had before.  But yesterday was so much pain.  It was something new (smiling).  
 
Q.  You mentioned that your opponent didn't play smart tennis.  Are you talking about she didn't move you around the court or just the dropshots? 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  She didn't really move me around the court.  I don't know, I felt she could have used this angle more because usually she play a lot of angles.  Usually she plays a lot of angles, not today really.  
 
Q.  Other than the splint, you were wearing that patch.  We've seen Justine also wear that kind of patch.  Can you explain what that is, what it actually does?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  It just support the muscle, support the leg.  You mean the bandage, the tape?  
 
Q.  Looks like a bandage. 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  It support the muscle, of course.  Really the trainer will explain better than me.  But I just felt big support, and it holds my leg to not really, you know, loosen up and move. 
 
Q.  It's not warming, doesn't provide heat or anything?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  No, no, no.  
 
Q.  Besides the injury, it seems that you played well. 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yeah, definitely.  Well, my coach even said that I played well.  That's really new (smiling).  I'm really happy with that.  
 
Q.  Was it like this in Stockholm last week, as well?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  No.  In Stockholm was different because I had to push myself through the cold weather.  It was different.  But I'm really happy that I'm in the semifinal here.  
 
Q.  How do you explain that?  You are more focused on your game?  You are feeling much better physically, even if you have this injury?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yes, I think I'm more confident right now on the court.  I feel that I can win now.  Because at the beginning of the year, I was losing lot of easy matches.  I was really in bad condition.  But now I'm feeling much better.  
 
Q.  Can you talk about the treatment you had last night or yesterday and how much you had, how many hours, what all they did. 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Well, it was almost the whole afternoon after my match.  I had just the soft tissue, acupuncture, steam, ice, everything.  So pretty much it took me the whole night to be ready for this match today.  
 
Q.  At the end of the night, did you feel like you would make it and everything would be okay?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  By the end of the day, I felt so tired.  I just really went to bed.  Practically well, I feel much better last night already in the end of the night.  I felt that I can try at least.  And I tried.  
 
Q.  Can you speak on the importance of staying in this tournament now that a lot of top seeds have dropped out and your opponent today was someone who was unseeded, just in terms of the ranking points? 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  What do you mean?  
 
Q.  By staying in and toughening it out, there's a lot to be gained in terms of the ranking points, isn't there?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Well, I don't really count the ranking points.  I just need to get more confidence before US Open.  That's what I need more, to stay in this tournament, to prove to myself that I can play, that I'm able to play, and I'm able to win.  
 
Q.  There was no danger, really thought in your mind that it could worse to your ankle by staying in?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Well, I spoke to the doctor.  My coach spoke to the doctor.  They said it's not going to go worse.  Especially with this tape, it's really hold my ankle, so it's not going to go worse for sure.  
 
Q.  With Serena and a lot of top seeds out, do you see this as even a better opportunity to do better at this tournament?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Of course.  I mean, I'm going to do treatment today.  Well, you know, if I play, I play hundred percent no matter what.  I really want to do well no matter what.  I'll try to play probably with Kim tomorrow.  I really want to push myself again because Kim is not Gisela, even  Gisela good player, but Kim, higher-level player.  Of course, I want to push myself tomorrow.  
 
Q.  Did you have an MRI or x-ray of the foot?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  No.  The doctor said that I don't need this because it's definitely I sprain my ankle, so it's not going to be any news from that pictures.  
 
Q.  It looks probably like Kim is going to take that match.  Can you talk about what sort of player she is and what challenge her game provides yours?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Kim is just a great person.  Besides that, she's a great tennis player.  Whatever she's doing on the court, she's doing amazing - especially the way she moves on the court, it's just unbelievable.  So for me it's really going to be tough tomorrow.  I have to play unbelievable to win the match.  Hopefully I will do it.  
 
Q.  What is your opinion on the thought that some people say Kim is just too nice to be a Grand Slam winner, top-flight tennis player?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  I don't really hear this comment.  I'm not agree with that because Grand Slam finals, it's a little bit different.  It's a lot of pressure.  Kim, yeah, young, born '83.  She's a really young girl.  Sometimes it's really hard to handle the pressure on the final.  But I think in the future she's going to be tougher and she become stronger.  Well, I'm sure she's going to win one of the Grand Slam.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT