ROGERS CUP
August 17, 2005
Anastasia Myskina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Anastasia. 


Q.  A lot of unforced errors near the end of the second set.  How did you turn it around for the third? 

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  You know, since Wimbledon I get used to play three sets.  Almost every match I'm going for three sets.  I don't really think about the score.  I just know that I'm better.  I play pretty good match no matter what.  Yeah, I miss the volley on match point.  That's why I was really upset.  But then I played good anyway. 

Q.  Your first match of the week.  Nice to get three sets under your belt for fitness and the nerves?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Maybe.  But we will see.  Depends how it goes tomorrow.  I'll tell you (smiling). 

Q.  In terms of nerves, she was coming in after playing in the first round.  Is it difficult to kind of get match ready coming into a tournament when you have a bye?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  No, because I played last week the whole week in Stockholm.  Actually, I was ready for no matter what.  I know Laura play a couple matches here.  But I still was confident to come here and confident to play here. 

Q.  You mentioned you look at the score at the end of the match; you don't worry about individual sets or games.  Were you at all worried after making that error on match point, after she tied things?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Well, yeah, a little bit, especially after this match point when I missed the volley.  I was not nervous, but I was really upset.  After this, I would think, "Now I might lose."  So that would happen. 

Q.  You did get mad at yourself a couple times during the match.  Threw your racquet down, seems like you were swearing at yourself in Russian.  How do you use the self-motivating techniques like that to get your game up?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Well, it's easy because I'm now 14 and I used to be No. 2.  When you want to be come back, you want to be top 10 again.  It's very easy to motivate you, it's easy to play because you want to be back, you want to be one of the best tennis players again. 

Q.  Do you need to do that kind of stuff during a match?  Is it odd that you would get that angry at yourself or get that fired up? 

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Well, I didn't think I was that angry today.  I thought it was okay. 

Q.  Are we going to see an angrier Myskina later on?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  No (smiling). 

Q.  With your history of hard court success and defeats, what are you looking at in terms of improving getting ready for the US Open?

ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  My serve definitely needs to improve.  That's really actually what I've been struggling because I do double-faults, especially the points I need to win.  I guess that's the only one thing that I have to work pretty hard. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT