WIMBLEDON
June 28, 2005
Anastasia Myskina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  English questions for Anastasia Myskina. 
 
 
Q.  A bit difficult for you today to get settled into a game plan?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Well, she played a little bit different than she used to play.  She come a lot to the net.  I think that was good for her because from the baseline, I felt much stronger, and a lot of rallies I won from the baseline.  That's the only one thing that she should do is come to the net, and she did really well today. 
 
Q.  How do you feel now 12 months on from your last year at Wimbledon, leaving there, what do you feel you've learnt about your grass court game? 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Well, it's pretty good.  I think I'm improved since even last year on grass.  Just, you know, I'm a little bit tired from last week.  I guess that should happen.  I'm really happy with my game right now.  
 
Q.  Do you think Mauresmo has the combinations to maybe go one step further than last year and make the final?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Well, I don't know because I think Lindsay going to serve much better than me.  If going to be Lindsay, or, I don't know, Kuznetsova, you know, it depends who is going to play against Amelie tomorrow.  
 
Q.  What have you picked up in your four wins here?  Your form coming into Wimbledon wasn't great.  Do you feel you've resurrected your form? 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  I feel the ball much better.  I'm more confident right now from baseline.  Like I said, even today I felt stronger from the baseline when there was long rallies.  So I'm really happy.  
 
Q.  How do you feel about going back onto the clay now?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Doesn't really matter for me because, you know, if you just confident, you don't really care where to play.  
 
Q.  Is it clear who will play for Russia?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Tough question.  I have no clue.  
 
Q.  The team hasn't been announced yet?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  (Shaking head negatively.) 
 
Q.  Can you talk about Maria, sort of what you've seen in her. 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  That's your favorite question.  I didn't see.  I was playing the same time.  
 
Q.  In the course of the last year. 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Really, nothing I can talk about her.  She's a good player.  She's No. 2 in the world.  What else you can say?  That's pretty much it.  You always ask me about her.  
 
Q.  Must be good, though, for Russia to have so many top seeds going so far in all the tournaments.  What do you think maybe British tennis can learn about how to get top players?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  I think all Russian players are really fight.  I mean, they fight until the end.  They don't really -- you know, they not giving up.  I don't know really why a lot of girls in England not playing well.  But I think maybe the education is more important for them because they have such good universities here.  So I guess that's maybe the key.  
 
Q.  You came here a little earlier than usual.  How do you feel that helped with your preparation for the tournament?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  That was good.  I was in Eastbourne.  I was practicing there and playing there.  I thought it was a really good idea because I like Eastbourne a lot.  
 
Q.  Did it make you more determined to come back?  It was the first time you made the quarterfinal here this year. 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  It was really nice to play there on Centre Court.  I used to play there before.  I lost to Amelie Centre Court as well, I think couple years ago as well.  Still, you know, if you're happy with your game, you look forward to come back and play even better.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT