WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2005
Anastasia Myskina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Could we start with any English questions.  
 
 
Q.  Do you always remember all the match points you save in your matches in your career?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  No, I don't really.  I think even today I don't really remember.  I remember that I return pretty good, that's pretty much it.  
 
Q.  This is the second time this week you've sort of looked on the verge of going out and started playing your best tennis.  Is there any reason for the slow starts? 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Well, today I was really nervous at the beginning because we have, you know, really lot of matches against each other and we know each other really well, so I was thinking a lot during the point.  You know, I didn't know what really to do with the ball because the serve was too slowly.  I didn't really expect that.  Then I just, you know, get used to it for the rhythm, for the game, and realize that it's really nothing really special.  I just have to play my game.  
 
Q.  Court No. 13 is proving to be quite lucky for you. 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yeah, definitely lucky.  
 
Q.  You play nine hours in four matches.  How do you feel physically?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Perfect (smiling).  
 
Q.  What do you think about your next match against Amelie? 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Well, we play a lot of matches, as well.  Amelie, great player.  And I think she's really -- she's played pretty good today.  I watched couple of games.  I think she's really want to win here because she didn't really did well in Eastbourne.  So I think she going to play really good tomorrow, and I have to do the same.  
 
Q.  How much of that victory today was mental? 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  For me really lot.  You know, it's more confidence for me.  That's what I need right now.  
 
Q.  Just talk about the tiebreaker, which was pretty dramatic.  She gave you one match point back, but you forced her into the other error.  It was touch-and-go.  Even the third set was back and forth. 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yeah.  Was really close.  You know, one point and maybe I would be loser today.  But I was really calm in tiebreak.  I was exactly know what I have to do at some points, even though she had some match points.  But I knew I had to return to her backhand.  Even that her backhand improve a lot, but still it's the weaker side, I think.  
 
Q.  What do you have to your legs?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Well, it's just a sprain, but it's okay.  
 
Q.  You've got to be very happy after four matches now, given what's been going on this year, that you've won through very dramatic three-setters. 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  I'm still very happy.  I'm satisfied with my game right now, but doesn't mean that I'm going to really relax right now and say it's good enough for me, quarterfinal.  I really want to do even better tomorrow.  
 
Q.  Does it show, winning these types of matches, the motivation, fight and now some of the confidence is coming back?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yeah, definitely, definitely.  I mean, I think my game improving every match.  And I think I starting play better right now.  At least I feel the ball better right now.  
 
Q.  Do you get on with your coach off the court?  You seem to be sort of staring at him a lot of the time on the court. 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Well, it's part of the game, I guess.  I'm always looking at my coach.  
 
Q.  You had such a disappointment at the French.  What did you do between then and now to come here and play with such fighting spirit?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  I played mixed at the French.  You know, I think this give me -- like it was more fun and I understood maybe that's the way I should play singles.  It's a lot of pressure, but still has to like just relax and play every point.  That's pretty much it.  I was just thinking that, you know, cannot be always bad.  You know, maybe today it's bad, but tomorrow going to be better day.  
 
Q.  It seemed as though after the French, you were so devastated.  Here every match you're fighting. 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  I was really upset after French Open.  But it's life.  You know, it's up and down all the time.  But I think now, right now, it's a good week for me.  That's good. 
 
Q.  Can you specifically talk about playing Mauresmo on grass and some of the things you might have to change. 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  I lost her already her here couple years ago.  It was easy, I think, 4 and 1, something.  Well, Amelie really good player because she coming to the net, she serving pretty well.  Her slice really good.  So maybe if I can keep, you know -- if I put pressure on her with, you know, my return, I will keep her moving, then maybe I can win the match.  
 
Q.  You have to play a little more aggressively and attack more than you might on another surface?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Yeah, I think so.  
 
Q.  There are four Russian players in the quarterfinals.  Why do you think that is? 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Why?  
 
Q.  Why do you think the Russians have done so well this year?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Well, why we so many players in quarterfinals, Russians?  
 
Q.  Yes. 
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Four of us in Top 10.  Why not?  We should be in the quarterfinal.  
 
Q.  It's a natural progression?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  I think all the girls are playing really well.  Maria playing unbelievable.  Especially they like the grass, she serve pretty well.  Of course she's going to be in quarterfinal.  Petrova has good serve.  I didn't see her game, but her serve really save her.  Kuznetsova also playing really good tennis.  I fight.  You know, that's why I think we right now in quarterfinal.  
 
Q.  Do any of the rest of you feel overshadowed by the attention given to Maria?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Listen, when was Anna, it was the same question.  I don't think we feel the same way.  
 
Q.  Do you give Petrova any real chance of beating Sharapova or just a small one?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Well, it's really tough question because I don't think they ever play each other.  Maybe going to be really difficult for Maria because she never play against Petrova.  But still she's favorite here.  I think she's really, really good play here.  
 
Q.  When you start in the tournament, you believe in yourself or it's just match after match?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  I think match after match and after match.  Before first match, I was really unconfident.  I mean, I was really want to win, but I was really unconfident.  And right now I feel better.  
 
Q.  What about Dementieva?  Why do you think she lost that match?
 
ANASTASIA MYSKINA:  Well, her serve, it's really weak.  You know, everybody know that.  Besides this, she's really good on baseline.  She's moving really, really well.  But even that I lost my serve, I still knew I that I can take advantage on her serve.  If I can handle it my serve, then it's going to be easy.  That's what happened after 3-Love.  To her serve, I hold my one, then was for me, you know, two games and then easy to play.  I believe in myself again, and just try to keep rallies and play her.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT