NCAA MEN'S FINAL FOUR
March 31, 2000
Bill Guthridge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Coach, it's been quite a week for you from the Regional win on Sunday, the funeral
on Monday, being here at the Final Four. Can you describe your emotions for the last week?
 
 COACH GUTHRIDGE: It's been a great week, we had a nice celebration of my mom's life on
Monday. That went well. Of course we were thrilled to win on Sunday against a very good
Tulsa team in Austin. To be here in the Final Four, it's a real thrill. It doesn't get
old, that's for sure. 
 
Q. Coach, could you talk about Ed Cota, his development throughout his career and how
much he means especially to this team, please.
 
 COACH GUTHRIDGE: Ed Cota has had a fantastic career. This is his third Final Four. His
second one here. And he's just -- he's been tremendous. He's our all-time assist leader,
and we've had some pretty fair country point guards as well. So that's outstanding. I
think it is his leadership has been very good this year, especially as we've gotten
towards the end of the season, and I don't know where we would be without him. He's just
been fantastic. 
 
Q. Coach, freshmen generally don't lead Carolina in scoring. Could you talk about Joe's
year and the role you envisioned him filling when you signed him?
 
 COACH GUTHRIDGE: I thought Joseph Forte was an ingredient our team really needed. He's
got a lot of basketball savvy, a good feel for the game and I just thought he would
certainly fit in. As far as him leading the team in scoring, I think he certainly owes
that to Brendan Haywood and the other teams the way they play Brendan, and to Ed Cota for
getting him the ball. I think we've had a lot of freshmen that would have led us in
scoring under similar circumstances. The thing I like most about Joseph is his defensive
potential, and he's starting to fulfill that. He's become a very good defensive player. 
 
Q. Bill, is one of the decisions you're facing against Florida's press whether to
attack it and maybe try to score off of it but then maybe you get the pace of the game
going faster, maybe try to get the ball into the front court and run the offense?
 
 COACH GUTHRIDGE: I think you have to do both. I think -- and I'm relying a lot on Ed
Cota and I have a lot of confidence that Ed will make the right decisions, along with
Joseph and Jason. But I know that Florida wants to play a 94-foot game. We like to play
that, too, under certain situations. We're going to play it, but there will be times when
one of our strengths is the ability to get the ball in to Brendan Haywood or Kris Lang or
Julius Peppers and we still want to do that, too. 
 
Q. Bill, did Chris practice today?
 
 COACH GUTHRIDGE: Kris Lang went through most of the practice today. We practiced about
25 minutes before we came here to go over some strategic things that you can't do in an
environment like this. And he went through that, and then we came over here and he did
some of the up-and-down work. But it's been a day-to-day thing, but I would guess that
he'll play tomorrow. We certainly need him. 
 
Q. Could you please compare the Florida team that you saw in Maui, you probably had to
scout them in a mini-tournament atmosphere, how they play versus the team that you'll be
playing tomorrow?
 
 COACH GUTHRIDGE: They're much better. All those freshmen that were there, they played
one game prior to coming to Maui against Florida State, so they really were two freshmen
then. I think now they're sophomores and juniors instead of freshmen and sophomores.
They're a lot better. I think Harvey is probably the best offensive rebounder we have
played this year, one of the best we've ever played against. He's -- he's amazing, his
relentlessness. And -- so he's a whole lot better then. And Nelson's a lot better. I think
Billy Donovan has done a tremendous job of assembling the type of players he wants and
then coaching them, too. I think they're very good. 
 
Q. Bill, Ed Cota's ability to get the ball to Brendan, obviously, has been a key thing
for you. It seems to have really flourished in the tournament. Is that something that's
kind of come along over time and why has it been so effective during the tournament?
 
 COACH GUTHRIDGE: I think it's gotten better. We've worked all year at different ways to
get the ball to Brendan, and I think it's -- Brendan's improvement on getting open and
Ed's ability to get him the ball, as well as Jason and Joseph. And I think it's been
tougher on Ed and tougher on the fellas that Ed passes the ball to. Ed for two years was
used to passing to Antawn Jamison and Vince Carter. There was an adjustment last year and
this year, it probably took a little longer than I thought it would, but we've gotten
better and that certainly is one of the areas where we've improved. I think we've also
improved our defense and just our overall improvement, individual improvement, which
equals team improvement. 
 
Q. Coach, does Florida's depth and style of play remind you at all of Pitino's Kentucky
team that is Billy was a part of, and how do you counter those things when obviously you
don't go as deep on your benches as he does?
 
 COACH GUTHRIDGE: Very much like the Kentucky teams and Providence the team that Billy
played on. I think they have the same general philosophy and Billy's made some additions
and probably some subtractions from it, too. I think it's definitely his team but he
certainly has the background of Rick, and has done a tremendous job. And they do throw ten
people at you, and we hope that we can counter with our six or seven players. We've played
against teams with depth, but that's certainly a factor that we'll have to be aware of. 
 
Q. Coach, this is your 14th Final Four and I believe your first one was as a player in
1958. Can you just talk about the atmosphere then and how it contrasts to what it's like
now at the Final Four?
 
 COACH GUTHRIDGE: That's right, it was 1958, I was on the team, I didn't play in the
game. That was Tex Winters' fault for not putting me in. We might have won that game.
(Laughter.) But I wasn't very good, and obviously, he made the right decision. But it was
of course there wasn't the hype and the media attention and that type of thing then. But
it was a thrill then. It's a thrill now. 
 
Q. Bill, how much does it surprise you or impress you that Florida is able to
distribute playing time among ten guys, yet everyone seems content with their minutes?
 
 COACH GUTHRIDGE: I think Billy's done a fantastic job in that. I think it's hard to get
ten players to be happy in that type of situation, and obviously, he's done that. Their
style of play certainly dictates that you can use -- need to and can use more players and
get more playing time. But I think that Billy's done a good job of convincing his team
that way. 
 
Q. Coach, I just noticed at the end of practice that you and your staff ran a line
drill there. What's the reasoning behind that?
 
 COACH GUTHRIDGE: Well we have this game we play, quite often. It's -- and we raise the
bar. It used to be 100 points or 120. We raised the bar to 105, we go for two minutes and
if the players don't get 105 points, then they have to run it down and back. Between 105
and 125, then nobody runs. If it's over 125, then the coaches run. If you can call what we
did running today. We got 128 points. We've got Phil Ford with a bad hip, Dave Hanners
with hardly any knees. Pat Sullivan had back surgery a couple years ago and I'm old.
(Laughter.) So it's an untimed down and back for the coaches. 
 
Q. Coach, is there an ACC team that is similar to what Florida presents? Is there
something that ACC fans or Carolina fans would be familiar with?
 
 COACH GUTHRIDGE: Probably the closest would be Virginia. Maryland, to some extent. And
Duke somewhat. But no one's quite like them, but I think the closest would probably be
Virginia. 
 
End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT