NCAA WOMEN'S REGIONAL SEMIFINALS AND FINALS: ALBANY
March 23, 2018
Faith Suggs
Lexie Brown
Rebecca Greenwell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: We're joined by the student-athletes for Duke University.  Joining us are Lexie Brown, Rebecca Greenwell, and Faith Suggs.  Congratulations on advancing to Albany.   
 Q.  Rebecca, you're pretty well known around here for a shot you made three years ago against Albany in the first round NCAA game.  I was wondering what you remember about that shot, and how much you remember about that game?  
REBECCA GREENWELL: Yeah, I remember that game pretty clearly.  My freshman year we played a tough Albany team.  We battled with them all game long.  I got lucky towards the end and hit a three-pointer that put us up one and we ended up getting the game.   
But that was such a fun environment to play in, especially as a freshman.  So if something ever happened like that tomorrow, I'd be all about it.  But I'm looking forward to tomorrow.  We have a tough game coming up.  We have to be focused and ready to give it our all.   
 Q.  Faith, for you, obviously the toughest opponent you can come up with tomorrow.  What is the mindset going into the game on Saturday?  
FAITH SUGGS: It's just another game.  Another day to get better for our team.  I'm really excited along with Coach P. and our teammates to get this challenge, and hopefully make a good outcome.  But each day is about getting better with our team, and hopefully playing six games.   
 Q.  Lexie, obviously defense is a key for you.  What do you do individually and collectively as a team to try to slow down your opponent?  Tomorrow, in particular, but in general also.  
LEXIE BROWN: The main things we have to do is get our game plan.  Every game is different.  We've got to defend different players differently.  We just have to lock in, do what we practice all week.  Specifically for tomorrow just know personnel, know tendencies, a lot of ball pressure.  Just try to get them into their rhythm offensively.  Their offense is so fluid.  So anyway we can interrupt that would be helpful for us.   
 Q.  Rebecca and Lexie, I asked Crystal Dangerfield do you look at it as a challenge playing against a back court tandem and tremendous experience you have and talent, and she said without question.  What do you guys think you have to try to take away from them?  You can't take away everything, but if you needed to take away one thing, is there something in your mind that may be more so than something else?  Rebecca?  
REBECCA GREENWELL: Sure, they have a lot of weapons obviously.  We just need to have more possessions than them, that's going to be key.  Also, defensively just getting stops.  It's going to be hard to focus on just one player, so I think it's going to have to be a team effort.   
Defensively we have to have great ball pressure, try to get some deflections and really be able to control the tempo out there.   
LEXIE BROWN: I think another important part for tomorrow is to up their transition game, and that's going to rely solely on how we take care of the ball.  I know they're a solid defensive team, and they sometimes tend to wait for another team to kind of give them the ball.  So if we can our live ball turnovers or slide ball turnovers to be more specific, then that will shut down a large part of their offense.   
 Q.  Your team has depth, ten players with ten minutes or more on average per game, even though you've been bitten by the injury bug a little bit.  How important is a depth against a team like Connecticut?  
FAITH SUGGS: I think it's very important.  You never know what's going to happen in the game.  To have bench players come off and give energy and provide defense and rebounding is really key to winning a game.   
 Q.  Rebecca or Lexie, you're going to face a player tomorrow in Azura that you know quite a bit about.  Will that be strange or will you make an attempt to talk to her after the game?  
REBECCA GREENWELL: I'll attempt to talk to her after the game.  I don't have any bad blood with Azura.  She's a great person, a great player.  We know her game really well, so I think that will play into our favor a little bit.  We know her tendencies.  But we don't have bad blood.  So I'm excited about the opportunity to play her.   
LEXIE BROWN: Yeah, there is no bad blood.  I didn't play with her at all.  So there is nothing really to have to feel any type of way about.  She's been having an amazing season.  It's been really nice to see her thriving in her new environment.  And it's going to be a lot of fun playing against her tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT