ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 5, 2017
Joanne P. McCallie
Lexie Brown
Rebecca Greenwell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Notre Dame - 74, Duke - 61
JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Obviously not a game that we wanted.  Certainly not the outcome that we wanted.  You have to credit Notre Dame.  They shot the ball well.  They shot 52 percent.  That's an excellent percentage, and too high relative to what we like to do defensively.
I think there will be some good lessons here for us to learn from, and I think that they're a pretty seasoned team, and you have to have a complete, complete connectedness, complete focus to take out a team that's been successful over the years, has returning players that have had that success, and you really have to -- it's a tough thing.
And I thought we were at one point in the second half going to press, going to press on and do that, and of course they answered the bell, and the game obviously is what it is.  So we'll learn from it.  Congratulations to them for their dominance, and we definitely will take this to heart and grow with it and get ready for next.
Q. Coach, can you just talk about after you guys went on that 10-0 run in the third quarter and you had to call a time-out after Becca grabbed the offensive rebound and then they went on a 22 run, can you talk about the momentum shift that occurred during that time-out or afterwards?
JOANNE P. McCALLIE: What do you want me to say about it?  I mean, our defense broke down, and they scored points.  I mean, it just -- the game is about runs.  I was really proud of our run, but you can't expect to just go at a team one time and assume they're just going to back up and allow you to -- you have to be very, very aggressive, and we backed up.  They hit a couple nice shots, I think a three and then something else happened there.  But that's basketball, and you've got to be ready to compete at that level.  Obviously we did not.  We took a step back, and they took a step forward.
Q. Both players, just talk about the run you guys had to get to The Finals and how this will help you going forward in the NCAA Tournament.
LEXIE BROWN: It was definitely a lot of fun.  I would not want to go on this run with any other group of girls.  I know how much work we put into this season in the summer and the preseason.  Like I've stated so many times, nobody thought we were going to get to this level, to this game.  So it's just been a good experience.  I wish we wouldn't have to learn with a loss, but we're going to learn a lot and get better for the NCAA.
REBECCA GREENWELL: Yeah, like Lexie said, it was a lot of fun.  We're really proud of what we got.  Obviously not satisfied with today's outcome.  But we're just going to learn and grow from it and carry it on into the tournament this year.
Q. Lexie, how good is Lindsay Allen?
LEXIE BROWN: She's amazing.  Her court vision is something I've never seen before.  I've known Lindsay for a long time, and to see her grow as a point guard has been really nice to see.  She's definitely one of the best to ever do it, and congratulations to her for these four ACC championships.
Q. Coach, what can you say about the play of Kendall Cooper in this tournament?
JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Yeah, Kendall, I think she grew as a player tremendously, and I just feel like she had the right -- she has so much spirit, passion, emotion about her game, and she's a competitor.  You know, she's really a fighter, and I felt that came out in a variety of different ways throughout the games that we had through the tournament.
And today, as well, she was very pivotal at certain times.
It's fun to see a senior growing like that.  And I know she's upset.  She's not very happy about this outcome, and I think she'll use it wisely and be ready for next.
Q. Becca, Marina Mabrey played some really solid defense, then it seemed like they were switching between man-to-man and a triangle and two on you and Lexie.  What were they doing really well that kept you guys in check rather than your defense being the one that controlled the game?
REBECCA GREENWELL: Yeah, they were doing a great job denying both of us on the wings.  They just had really good pressure.  We just needed to adjust better, maybe slow down a little bit and be more patient.  But they did a great job defensively for sure.
Q. You guys have been playing such good defense in this tournament, and the first I think eight possessions they scored on.  Did that sort of set the tone that they were able to sort of get going offensively early on?
JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Well, I mean, obviously give them credit for that start.  It was a very strong start.  Yes and no.  When you look at these stats and you look at these points off turnovers, that's what really sticks out to me is poise.  I mean, they had 26 points off turnovers.  I believe they won by 23.  And so we have got to take a hard look at where we're being careless with the basketball.
I guess I'm not really answering your question because I'm coming back around to if you're going to turn the ball over that much and someone is going to score that much, it's going to be very hard to play defense.  If you're going to create three on twos and two on ones for the other team, it's going to be very hard to get a percentage down, and I think that's the thing that the team is going to look at on film and really be unhappy about.
I also look at the points in the paint, but that's a separate question.  But you're asking me about defense.  You have to get your defense back and set.  Well, if you're turning the ball over and they're in fast-break mode, that's a lot harder to do.  And so that's a bothersome stat because that stat has popped up before, and we're going to really address that.  We're going to really address decisions, slowing down, being able to read the game a little bit, because you can help people's offense.  You can fortify their offense.  And I felt we did that early, fortified their offense early.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT