THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 25, 1999
Joe Ozaki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOE OZAKI:  Today's round being the first day, especially on this golf course, safety is the key.  Making par is a good score.  That is what I tried to do just all day, just try to make pars.  If a birdie chance presented it, I would go for it.  That is how I played today.  I played well; didn't have any bogeys, and played a good, steady round.

Q.  How was the wind today?  Any effect on your play?

JOE OZAKI:  Wind always blows here, so you just get used to it.  Nothing out of the ordinary to have the wind blow as it did today.

Q.  Starting in the afternoon with the wind, the greens get harder.  It is a little bit more difficult?

JOE OZAKI:  Yeah, it was difficult, but really the greens to me were softer today than they were during the practice rounds.  Seemed like a lot firmer yesterday and Tuesday.  Really wasn't, I mean, the green firmness wasn't that much of a factor for me today.

Q.  You finished in top 10 here two times.  Last year, 36-hole-leader.  What is it about the course that fits well to your game?

JOE OZAKI:  This course really isn't a long hitter's course.  This course takes patience.  The greens are smaller; requires accurate iron shots, and that plays into my strengths, and so maybe that is why I play well here.

Q.  You had three birdies today.  What holes did you make the birdies on?

JOE OZAKI:  Hit 4-iron and maybe 25 feet.  Number 14, second shot 4-iron, and maybe 40 feet.  16, second shot 3-iron, I hit left edge up-and-down.  Six feet.  I didn't go for it at 16; I was playing safe all the way. Actually, I was aiming to the left edge of the green.  I apologize for that, but --

Q.  You wanted to play a steady round.  You played a steady round?

JOE OZAKI:  Exactly right.  It was the type of round that I had hoped to play, anticipated, and everything worked out well for me today.

Q.  You had a couple more birdie chances; didn't make the putts, but how do you feel about your putting?

JOE OZAKI:  I feel good about my putting.  A lot better than last week.  I am happy with my round today.  3-under was a good score today and I will take it.  Thank you very much.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT