SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 25, 2007
Joe Ozaki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   KELLY ELBIN:  Joe Ozaki, ladies and gentlemen, joining us after a 1-under par 71 in the second round of the 68th Senior PGA Championship.  Joe is at 4-under par, 140, after two rounds. 
 Joe will be helped by Allen Turner, his caddie.  And let's begin with just some general thoughts on the round today, any thoughts on course conditions and the way he played in general. 
 JOE OZAKI:  The wind was really strong again today.  It was just like my back nine yesterday afternoon. 
 But I was able to hang in there and play well. 
 KELLY ELBIN:  Joe, if you would go through your card, you only had 25 putts today, compared to 28 yesterday, so it looked like a better putting day.  So if you could go hole by hole for birdie and bogeys. 
 JOE OZAKI:  Okay.  No. 11, par-5, second shot and a 5-wood.  Little bit just over the green.  And a chip and maybe three foot there. 
 No. 12, second shot and 54 degree sand wedge and a 10 foot birdie. 
 Number 13, second shot in the water and about 170 yard and up-and-down.  Nice five. 
 Number 14, tee shot good, but a little bit over.  And approach to 10 foot.  Can't make.  Bogey. 
 No. 2, par-5, second shot, sand wedge, little bit over and maybe 30 foot putt.  I use a Texas wedge.  Make it.  Fantastic. 
 Number 7, par-5, second shot 5-iron over the green.  But approach to four foot and make birdie. 
 Number 8, I hit a 9-iron, 166.  So hitting good, but over the green.  No up-and-down. 
 KELLY ELBIN:  All right.  Questions? 

 Q.  How much easier was the wind today than yesterday? 
 JOE OZAKI:  Yesterday in the morning there wasn't much wind, so I didn't experience any wind playing the first front nine.  So that was difficult today, to play that front nine. 

 Q.  Are you pleased with your position heading into the weekend and the way you've been playing so far and what do you think your prospects are for this weekend? 
 JOE OZAKI:  I'm very surprised and satisfied to be at the position that I'm in.  I hope to continue to play well into the weekend. 

 Q.  Sort of along those same lines, coming into this tournament were you expecting to play well?  Did you have a good feeling after practice rounds so forth? 
 JOE OZAKI:  When I first came out for the practice rounds this was my first time out here.  So I thought that the players that have been here before would have an advantage because they would know the course well and know it.  So that's what I, that's what I thought when I came into the tournament. 
 KELLY ELBIN:  For the record Joe has four Top-10 finishes on the Champions Tour this year and was tied for 31st in the Senior PGA Championship last year.  His only appearance in the Senior PGA Championship. 

 Q.  Sort of a follow-up to that, you mentioned you thought the players that had been here before might have an advantage.  Do you think maybe not having been here is an advantage? 
 JOE OZAKI:  For me, being able to experience the Ginn Championship in Florida and being able to play with wind and narrow fairways, that experience has been big for me to come in here and have that experience behind me. 

 Q.  You're obviously here playing well, your brother Jet is here, could you talk a little bit about what Jumbo is up to these days? 
 JOE OZAKI:  He's still working hard at playing golf, but he hurt his back a little bit, so he's kind of been hurting a little bit, but he's still out there playing. 
 KELLY ELBIN:  Joe Ozaki at 4-under par, thank you very much, Joe. 
 JOE OZAKI:  Thank you. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT