SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 24, 2007
Joe Ozaki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   KELLY ELBIN:  Joe Ozaki, ladies and gentlemen.  In with a 3-under par 69, which is the low score among those who have completed their round in the opening round of the 68th Senior PGA Championship.   
 Joe will be working through Allen Turner, his caddie and interpreter.  Joe, some thoughts on your round today and on the course conditions out here at the Ocean Course.   
 JOE OZAKI:  The front nine there wasn't much wind.  But the back nine the wind came and I was able to make some nice pars and make some good putts at the end.   
 KELLY ELBIN:  Will you go through your birdies and bogeys.  33 going out, 36 coming in.   
 JOE OZAKI:  No. 1, two feet.  Second shot with a pitching wedge.  And I make birdie there.   
 No. 2, second shot, it spins back and in the fringe, 3-putt, bogey.   
 Number 4, second shot 6-iron and maybe 25 feet.   
 Number 5, I hit 6-iron and maybe 10 foot.  Make birdie.   
 No. 9, second shot I hit 8-iron and three foot.  Make birdie.   
 No. 11, second shot with a 5-wood.  And it was over the green there.  And chip there with a sand wedge, so how many feet?  Three feet?  Three feet.  Make birdie.   
 No. 12, and maybe 35 foot, 3-putt.  That's it.   
 KELLY ELBIN:  Very good.  Open it up for questions, please.   
  
  Q.  How much difference did the wind make going down wind and up wind or was it across wind and was it a steady wind that you had to deal with?   
 JOE OZAKI:  Those are things that you just can't control.  Especially the wind.  You don't know what it's going to be like tomorrow.  Obviously going in and going out you have some wind that was coming against you and some that was following behind you.  And you just can't, you just can't control it.  I'm not sure how to avoid problems or how to avoid the wind.   
  
  Q.  Ask him about his history in courses with wind like this or if he's ever seen wind like this in his golf career.   
 JOE OZAKI:  I played at St. Andrews where it was really windy.  But here it's really tough around the greens.  So it's really tough around here.   
  
  Q.  What was the most difficult hole out there, not necessarily the one you made the worst score on, but what was the most difficult one to play?   
 JOE OZAKI:  17.   
 KELLY ELBIN:  What did he hit on 17 and how did he end up making par?   
 JOE OZAKI:  I hit a 4-iron and a little pull and lucky that a bunker -- it was between the bunker, on the grass there.  And up-and-down four feet.  Lucky.  But if it goes in the bunker, not bunker, but if bunker, if it is in there, maybe four or a five score.  On the grass was important.   
 KELLY ELBIN:  Joe ranks No. 1 in putting average on the Champions Tour.  Could you talk a little bit about that, is that the strength of his game today versus anything else?   
 JOE OZAKI:  My putting was good today.  I was able to make some long ones and not miss many short ones.  So it was a good day putting.   
  
  Q.  Are you surprised the scores are, there are as many low scores as there appear to be right now?   
 JOE OZAKI:  In the morning I think you were able to shoot low because I think the greens were a little softer.  But afternoon, I think it will be more difficult and obviously the scores won't be as good.   
 KELLY ELBIN:  Joe Ozaki in with a 69.  Thank you.   
 JOE OZAKI:  Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT