BUICK OPEN
August 10, 2000
Joe Ozaki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







JOE OZAKI: I arrived Detroit yesterday, but I arrived here around 9 o'clock in the
morning with golf clubs were missing. But finally we found his golf clubs in Baltimore
yesterday afternoon. He had a time with his family in Hawaii 'til Tuesday. He needs to be
there -- be here on Tuesday for practice, but he couldn't be with his family in Hawaii.
That is why he stayed one more day; that is why he came here yesterday. But anyway, his
golf clubs was missing. And he is very relaxed for this tournament because he spend the
time in Hawaii with his family; it makes him very comfortable for this tournament. He can
hit very well today.

Q. When did your golf clubs arrive?

JOE OZAKI: Around 9 o'clock last night.

Q. It took me seven days once to get my clubs back. (inaudible) What would you have
done if you didn't get your clubs back? Had you thought about that?

JOE OZAKI: I never thought about that. I might buy golf clubs at the pro shop
somewhere.

Q. I want to know, are you feeling more comfortable on this Tour year by year or is it
like tough for you to decide year by year whether you are going to play back home or here?

JOE OZAKI: Year by year getting hotter.

Q. (inaudible)

JOE OZAKI: Main reason is homesick, he miss his family. That is the main reason.

Q. How much is making the Presidents Cup team a motivation for you and do you think,
because Shigeki is already on the team, that Captain Thomson may consider you more as a
Captain's pick because it gives him two Japanese players and helps -- maybe help both of
you guys? You played very well last year; didn't you?

JOE OZAKI: I never thought about to be a member of The Presidents Cup because I
couldn't play well this year actually and I never feel the pressure to be the member of
The Presidents Cup team. So (inaudible) --

Q. What was the key to your round today? Your putter? Sounds like you made four birdie
putts from 20 feet or longer.

JOE OZAKI: Putting. 

Q. There has been a lot of talk about whether players are intimidated by Tiger Woods.
Are you or would you be if you were paired with him in the final round?

JOE OZAKI: I never thought about this. It is better if I am going to play close to the
Tiger's group, not in the final group, I will be very happy. (inaudible).

Q. Not intimidated?

JOE OZAKI: Not only Tiger but also all the players (inaudible).

Q. What is your thoughts to go back to a tournament where you had your best finish on
the Tour tied for second in 1997, I think?

JOE OZAKI: US PGA?

Q. Yeah, your thoughts coming back to a place where you had good results in 1997
playing this course?

JOE OZAKI: I feel very comfortable for me to play here after I finished second in 1997.

Q. What would it mean for you to win in America?

JOE OZAKI: (inaudible) My ranking was 140 at this moment, so I am not thinking about
that, not for winning at this moment, but I never thought about this. 

Q. Your brother Jumbo won a tournament in Japan last week. Has that motivated you?

JOE OZAKI: (inaudible) definitely, yeah.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT