THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 26, 1999
Joe Ozaki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOE OZAKI:  Today I hit my driver really well, hit my iron shots good, same as yesterday; putted well.  All and all, it was a real solid, steady round of golf, even better than yesterday.  Teeing off early this morning, the greens were holding. There were no spike marks, so that was quite an advantage for me today.  But all and all, it was a real -- satisfied with the round of golf that I played today.  Even at the end of the day, I don't know if I am going to be leading, but if I am the 36-hole leader, I have learned from experience that being halfway leader doesn't mean a whole lot.  I will treat my round tomorrow just like I was 2-, or 3-under par.  Last year I was sitting in the same chair last year, was the same score, and it ended up 18th place.  That left and still does leave a bitter taste in my mouth.  But jokingly aside, tomorrow I will try to play the course the same way for the last two days; that being par is my friend, and just try to hit fairways and greens.


Q.  What happened last year on Saturday?

JOE OZAKI:  I understand the question.  Really nothing happened, that was the problem.  Nothing happened.  But those kinds of things happen, and they have happened to me before on the American Tour.

Q.  What would it mean to you and your country for you to win a tournament of this magnitude?

JOE OZAKI:  That is a good question.  But I have been asked that question a number of times after I have been the 36-hole leader, and it is a tough question to answer, because all I can do is imagine what it would be like.  But I can't let myself do it right now.  I just need to play golf.  I need to play 36 more holes of golf.  That is what I am trying to focus my mind on.  If I start imagining things, then other things happen.

Q.  Can you describe your decision to come and play this Tour instead of --

JOE OZAKI:  That is a good question too, because I have almost quit a couple of times here on this Tour.  But I was born to be a pro golfer.  As a pro golfer, in order to test your game, you need to play against the best competition; you need to play on the best golf courses; and that is a test.  That challenges your own abilities.  In a nutshell, that is why I play here on the  American Tour.

Q.  I was under the impression that when you came here last year, this was going to be your last American tournament.  You were going back to Japan to play the Japanese Tour; is that correct?  Or did I misunderstand something after this tournament last year?

JOE OZAKI:  No, I was always planning to come back here.

Q.  How badly would you like to play in The Masters this year?  Will that be weighing on your mind this weekend?

JOE OZAKI:  Of course, I'd love to play in the Masters, but it won't influence my play in the next couple of days, hopefully.

Q.  How difficult has it been for you to play in the states, and has there been any resentment for your decision to do that back home and not play more in Japan?

JOE OZAKI:  In Japan, a lot of my fans really want me to play in America.  They encourage me to play there.  So that is pretty much the feeling in Japan that they are supporting me, wanting me to represent -- it is hard to say represent Japan, but that is what I do, I guess.  As far as playing in America, it is still hard.  Even though I played here for six years, I still get homesick, terribly.  Plus in Japan, I miss the cut from time to time, but not as much as here in America.  You can play really good here in America and miss the cut.  Getting over that shock or that surprise, it is tough each week.  The courses are good.  Even though I am playing well, hitting good shots, sometimes the outcome isn't as planned.  So it is a lot harder here than it is for me to play in Japan.

Q.  With your brother being the so-called "Jack Nicklaus of Japan," did you want to play over here to escape some of that shadow or not?

JOE OZAKI:  Not really.  Jumbo has his life, his game, and he has led the way.  Now I lead my life and play my own game. So really it is not like escaping or getting away from Jumbo's shadow.  It is just doing my own thing.

Q.  Brian Watts was here yesterday talking about getting acclimated in Japan.  I was wondering, do you still have problems here socially, or is it hard to get acclimated --

JOE OZAKI:  What did Brian say about Japan?

Q.  He just said it took him a while to get oriented.

JOE OZAKI:  But is he used to it?  Did he say --

Q.  Yeah, he says he misses it now.

JOE OZAKI:  Wow!  (laughter)  Man, I have been here six years, and I still haven't gotten used to playing -- last year I went back and forth seven times from here to Japan; played 17 tournaments.

Q.  Watts says he plans to play five to ten tournaments in Japan this year.

JOE OZAKI:  Really.  Good.  Welcome . 

Q.  When Aoki played Jack in - was it in the '80 U.S. Open, what was that like?  Did you watch that on TV?

JOE OZAKI:  I probably watched it.  I don't recall.  It wasn't -- I remember probably seeing it.

Q.  Devastating for you, or how much were you rooting for Aoki?

JOE OZAKI:  Not devastated.  In fact, it was more encouraging.  He played so well, and it was quite a thrill, in fact, to watch it.

Q.  When you go back to the cities on the Tour for the second or third time, are there families in these cities that you have gotten to know that speak Japanese or some Japanese people there, restaurants and other places that you are more familiar with?

JOE OZAKI:  As far as families or friends, the life we lead is hard to really to make friends, because we are only there a week at a time.  But as far as restaurants, Japanese restaurants, I know where all the good ones are.  In fact, last couple of years, American Japanese food has gotten better and better.  There is a lot of other good restaurants that -- I like a good meal, and I have found some real good restaurants.  That is one of the good parts about America that I like.

Q.  Do you have a favorite American food?

JOE OZAKI:  I like live Maine lobster, broiled, with all the stuff left inside.  Raw oysters.  Fresh seafood.  I am not a real meat eater.

Q.  Have you ever tried North Carolina barbecue?

JOE OZAKI:  Is it good?  Is it better than the Kobe beef?

JOE OZAKI:  Yes.


Q.  Is there any Japanese thing that you just can't get here and miss immensely?

JOE OZAKI:  Not really.  Lunch and dinner is fine, American lunches and dinners are great.  I do miss Japanese breakfast.  I miss those a lot because they are different than here.  Also maybe Japanese, their seafood, Blowfish, if I miss anything, I guess that is what I miss along with the Japanese breakfast.

JOE OZAKI:  Started at 10 today.  13, 3 foot, tee shot 8-iron.  15, second shot 9-iron and maybe five or six foot.  First bogey -- sorry second; second shot I hit a 3-iron, front edge and 2-putt.  Birdied two, hit second shot 3-iron, hit it right in the front edge; then putted from there. Second putt was probably six feet.  Hit the first one about six feet by.  No. 3, first bogey in tournament, little bit short and I approached and missed maybe 15 foot.  Missed it.  6-iron at 3, hit it short right.  Approached went about 15 feet by, and 2-putted from there for bogey, first bogey of the tournament.  No. 6, second shot and 9-iron and maybe 6 foot.  Make birdie.  Out of the fairway bunker on the left.  No. 9, second shot 9-iron and almost in (indicating inches)

Q.  What will you take from your experience last year into the final 36 holes this year?

JOE OZAKI:  Probably what I learned from last year just to approach it the same way I did the first two days, just steady, try to hit solid golf shots, keep my emotions under control.

Q.  How much do you think playing on this Tour has improved your game and would you advise younger Japanese pros to take a look at the U.S. Tour?

JOE OZAKI:  Just took the words right out of my mouth.  My game has gotten better, of course, here in America and I would hope that a lot of the young Japanese pros would come over and more of them are now.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT