SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 6, 2019
Cameron Newbauer
Funda Nakkasoglu
Delicia Washington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Florida - 64, Ole Miss - 57
THE MODERATOR: We'll get an opening statement from coach.
CAMERON NEWBAUER: Really proud of our squad for the toughness and resilience that we showed from a defensive standpoint today.  Ole Miss is a very good defensive team.  They did some things that really frustrated us, did a good job of taking away some of our players.  We talked about that in the first half at halftime.  I think what kept us in it was our defensive intensity, our ability to disrupt at time, try to turn them over.
Third quarter we came out, did a terrific job, 55% from the floor.  I think that's what kind of got us over the hump.  I thought our players did a great job of playing next play after an offensive first half, they could set back basketball for the ages.  It's hard to focus on what's next, to believe in yourself and have the confidence it's going to get better.  Our players did that.
We talked a lot about this year, playing the next play, looking to each other for energy and enthusiasm, having confidence the shots are going to go down.  Our players did that.
Second half offensive stats there, we did that.  But we stayed locked in defensively.  Fourth quarter gave up too many free throws there.  Overall just really proud of the effort, proud of these two up here.  These two, their last two games have been fantastic for us.  You talk about wanting to play your best basketball in March, I think our players are focused and believing we're playing our best basketball right now.
THE MODERATOR: Questions for the student-athletes.
Q. Coach talked about the third quarter, but what happened to help you hit shots?
DELICIA WASHINGTON: Coming out halftime, being a little more aggressive.  Giving up good shots for great shots.  Focusing on knocking down the shots we go through every day in practice, playing for one another, being more aggressive.
CAMERON NEWBAUER: I don't think any of us even knew what the score was, we kept talking about defense and rebounding, staying locked in because they've got three fifth-year players in Allen, Sessom, and Salter that are very good scorers and had a good game against us the first time.  We knew we had to stay locked in defensively.  Didn't focus much on the offensive side of the ball, let's get defense and rebounds, we'll figure out the offense.
Just next play I'd say yes from a defensive standpoint especially, not letting them get comfortable.
THE MODERATOR: Let's keep our questions focused to the student-athletes until they're dismissed.
Q. What did you like out of your team's performance in the fourth to do what coach said, close it out?
FUNDA NAKKASOGLU: Everyone did what they knew they needed to do.  We came out and were focused for the whole 10 minutes of the fourth quarter.  We did face adversity like coach said about fouls we may not have wanted to do right at the end.  But we stuck through it.  We ran our press really well when we needed to, when they were trying to deny us and be aggressive.  We were really poised and patient with what we got.
Q. You talked a lot about defensive resiliency, intensity.  How do you motivate each other on the floor and keep your team focused when a game is played the way the first quarter is played?
DELICIA WASHINGTON: Telling one another to play next play, forget what happened before and move on.
FUNDA NAKKASOGLU: Just having confidence in one another.  I think that's been a huge thing.  We really rely on each other and play for each other.  I think that's what gets us out of those tough situations.
THE MODERATOR: Ladies, thank you very much.  We'll take some questions for coach.
Q. First SEC tournament win, how does getting that win feel, just the celebration moment in the locker room?
CAMERON NEWBAUER: It's great because obviously it's been a tough year for us, just fighting through so many different adversity circumstances with inexperience, with a young team, with some games that we had leads in, just couldn't hang on.  Just the fight and resolve for our team to continue to keep chipping away because it's hard when you're a young person to keep having faith and confidence, to keep trusting your training.  I think our players have done that.
You heard Funda say how much they play for each other.  That's a big testament to who she is as a person.  If she wasn't such a good teammate and person, her teammates wouldn't want to fight so hard to help her win.
To maintain that, be like that in your senior year when you have such a tough year is special.  That's why I love these kids, because they care so much for one another.  It translates on the floor to playing next play, sticking together, really fighting and doing everything you can for the person next to you.
Q. Did the momentum from the Vanderbilt win play any role in today's game?
CAMERON NEWBAUER: I think it had to.  We spent a lot of time showing them success that we had in that game from a defensive standpoint, success we had in the game from an offensive standpoint.  I think most importantly, success we had from the energy that came from our bench, celebrations, sprinting to huddle to talk to each other, give each other encouragement, energy.  When you play with that sense of joy and enthusiasm, I think it translates onto the court and gives you some more energy.
In a game like this today where it's tough and scrappy, you need more.  From a complete team standpoint, I just thought it was really special.  Our last two games have been like that.  Everybody is locked in for doing what's best for the team, not what's best if I'm on the floor.
I would like to say something.  Crystal Allen, fantastic young lady, came in this league this year.  You look at what she's done, first year in the SEC.  Prolific scorer, made second team all conference, just a tough, gritty young lady.  One of those players that you hate to play against.  Hate to see her career finish.  What an addition to the SEC this year.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT