BOB HOPE CHRYSLER CLASSIC
January 16, 1998
Andrew Magee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ANDREW MAGEE:  I had a no-bogey day, Lee.  I made one the first day and two yesterday.  And, I was never in trouble. I played probably the best round of golf I have played in a couple years -- hit all the fairways, hit all the greens, and had lots of birdie opportunities and laid some and missed some.  But I had a lot of opportunities.  That is the same it has been the last two days. 
 

Q.  How does this compare to Las Vegas the year you went so low there -- (inaudible) your play, how does your play --
 
ANDREW MAGEE:  Yeah, I am playing a lot -- I really didn't feel like I had that much control in the game.  I was hitting a huge fade.  It was last summer of the year in the -- (inaudible) I just had to go with whatever I had.  I am playing (inaudible) -- I am hitting the ball much better.  Better feeling about my swing, and so I really can't compare.  It has been seven years (inaudible) -- I am playing better. 
 

Q.  90 holes is a lot different than 72 holes.  How do you play that knowing that it is not four days, it is five days, and it is just a heck of a lot longer?  Is it like a big march, or how do you mentally face it? 
 
ANDREW MAGEE:  Well, (inaudible) -- it really -- you still have to go out and play 18 holes today.  You just have to do it.  It is a long, long week.  (inaudible) some commercial stuff, that is what I do -- that is what I enjoy doing.  I don't think it is going to be anything different, 72, or 90, anymore than that, 108, you have got to go out and play good every day, especially this tournament.  And the weather being this good, you have got to go deep. 
 

Q.  Your thoughts tomorrow?  You are going to be playing here at Bermuda Dunes with a celebrity;  it is going to be a long day.  You are the leader of the tournament.  Your thoughts?  Is that going to be a plus or a minus for you tomorrow?
 
ANDREW MAGEE:  Well, Glenn Campbell (inaudible), I played with today.  I got Andy Williams tomorrow.  I have had three wonderful amateur groups in a row.  I think that helps me.  I really enjoy playing with the amateurs, sincerely. They help me relax.  I have someone to talk to.  I can't talk to the Tour buddies (inaudible) three great groups -- they have been going with me and that really helps my -- (inaudible) I hope another good group in a row, that will be great. 
 

Q.  The way your rotation sets up, you get Bermuda Dunes tomorrow; then you have it again on Sunday.  Do you think it is a particular advantage playing 36 holes in the same golf course  in this tournament back-to-back like that?
 
ANDREW MAGEE:  No.  I mean, I said it earlier in the week (inaudible) if you hit all the fairways and all the greens (inaudible) that is all I am trying to do.  PGA West is going to be the hardest course.  (inaudible) I came out of here with a 64, so every course that -- (inaudible) just got to go out and play better. 
 

Q.  How would you say you are playing?  You are saying you are playing the best in the last two years?
 
ANDREW MAGEE:  Oh, you always like to use these big words and big phrases.  I am playing good.  I have played well since I started to go see Phil (sic) in the middle of 1996 and you know, I am playing good golf.  I am on a nice roll and I am just hoping I can keep it going to Phoenix, my hometown tournament next week. 
 

Q.  How about the 5-shot lead, is that a good thing for you?
 
ANDREW MAGEE:  That is the first time I have (inaudible) I didn't know all along what my situation was which is probably good.  (inaudible) I have got no idea.  We will see how it goes.  I have got no idea.  That is why it is kind of exciting. 
 
ANDREW MAGEE:  I birdied six holes on the front 9 and (inaudible) on the back.  30, 34, does that help?  
 
ANDREW MAGEE:  No. 2 was a par 5, I got out of a sand trap; made about an 8-footer.  No. 3, hit 5-iron to about a foot, and made it for birdie.  No. 4, the par 4 on the (inaudible) hit 3-wood, pitching wedge; made about an 8-footer.  The par 5, I hit a good drive and another driver up there front of the green, chipped it up (inaudible) made it for birdie.  No. 7, hit a good drive, 3-wood, 7-iron to about eight feet and made it.  No. 8, I hit a sand wedge about four feet, missed it.  No. 9, I hit a 4-wood off the tee, 5-iron second shot about 25 feet.  I made it.  So I shot  (inaudible) -- I made the turn and No. 11, I missed about a 4-footer for birdie.  And I birdied number -- the par 3, did I birdie? 
 
ANDREW MAGEE:  I birdied 15.  I hit an 8-iron middle of the green; made about a 25-footer there for birdie.  And 16, I hit a nice wedge gimmie -- (inaudible). 
 
ANDREW MAGEE:  I hit a sand wedge on 16 to about a foot for a gimmie.  18, I missed another 3-footer for birdie: 
 

Q.  Compared to your opening round over at Indian Wells, was this a better round today?
 
ANDREW MAGEE:  Absolutely.  I didn't really miss a shot today.  Indian Wells, I definitely had a couple of hiccoughs on the back 9.  I got up-and-down a couple times at Indian Wells.  Today I was hitting all the fairways and all the greens, so, definitely much better round. 
  
 
End of FastScripts.....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT