BOB HOPE CHRYSLER CLASSIC
January 15, 1998
Andrew Magee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ANDREW MAGEE:  Well, I had another good day.  Shooting 63, you are always concerned about shooting such a good score and it is always hard to come back and shoot another 63.  I was going to be pleased with anything under 70, I said to myself. Kind of get me back to even keel, I think, but I shot 68.  I played -- I finished up  (inaudible) I started off a little scruffy, but like I said, I brought it back.  I made a couple birdies, hit some good shots, so, I am very pleased with my 68 today. 
 

Q.  You are 13-under through two rounds.  Now you are one shot off the lead.  Is there a point in this tournament where you actually start thinking about Sunday, or are you just trying to play holes?
 
ANDREW MAGEE:  I think I am -- I hope I start thinking about Sunday coming about.  Saturday after the rounds, you really don't want to get ahead of yourself.  I have got 54 holes to play now and anything can happen.  I got PGA West too.  It is a tough course, and I haven't played there in a while.  (inaudible) It is a long way to the finish line still  and I guess I am getting to ahead of myself thinking about Sunday and I would probably get into trouble. 
 

Q.  With all the birdies out there being racked up, can you talk a little bit about the score that you might be shooting for or the score that may win this tournament come Sunday?
 
ANDREW MAGEE:  Well, I have been reading the paper that everybody says you have got to shoot in the deep 20s, the 26s, 7s, 8s, 9s in there and I am not really targeting anything like that yet.  I am just trying to rack as many as I can and hopefully it will be there.  I think that is my mindset, just to try to rack birdies one at a time and not set a target score at what I am trying to get to.  At least, I haven't thought of a target score.  I read in the paper this morning, the deep 20 numbers.  That was the first time I really thought of a final end. 
 

Q.  You were talking about the concern you had after shooting a good round.
 
ANDREW MAGEE:  Yeah, you hardly ever see guys come back after a 63 with another good round.  I know Cookie shot a 62, 63 last year.  But those rounds are kind of rare. Clearwater shot 64, 64 to win Colonial years ago and -- you (inaudible) you seldom see really low back rounds.  I was concerned, I wanted to shoot something around -- just under  70.  If I would have shot 69, I would have been happy with that; just to keep the momentum going; keep those birdies going.  A 73 would have been devastating and would have got me going the wrong way, after bogeying the first hole today. 
 

Q.  Does the concern intensify because you are playing on what is perceived as a tougher course at La Quinta?
 
ANDREW MAGEE:  That is not my perception -- I have always liked it.  (inaudible) They have got some par 5s you can reach.  I am obviously playing good and they are all playing about the same for me right now. 
 
ANDREW MAGEE:  I bogeyed the 10th hole.  I started on 10.  Hit a poor drive off the tee went way behind the trees; missed a bad 15-foot par putt.  Made a couple of pars in a row.  And, birdied the par 5, 13th hole.  Hit a nice 3-wood left of the green, chipped it up for a one-foot gimmee.  I birdied the next hole; good 7-iron to about ten, twelve feet; made it for birdie.  And the last, on No. 18, I hit 4-wood off the tee and a 7-iron to the middle of the green and made about a 20-footer for birdie there on 18 to get myself to 2-under.  I bogeyed No. 1, 3-putted from about 40 feet.  Parred 2 and parred 3.  And, No. 4, I hit a good 8-iron about eight feet short of the hole; made birdie there.  No. 5, the par 5, I hit a -- (inaudible) 5 and made a par.  Didn't make a birdie on that hole.  Next hole hit 4-wood on the middle of the green on No. 6 and 2-putted for birdie.  7, the par 3, I hit a 6-iron on the proper level on the back, missed about a 20-footer.  And 8, hit a nice 3-wood and pitching wedge six feet and missed it for birdie.  And No. 9, I hit a good 3-wood and pitching wedge again to about ten feet behind the hole, made it for birdie.  So, six birdies and two bogeys. 
 

Q.  When it is early in the year, are you surprised yourself that you come out of the box this quickly get 13-under after two rounds?
 
ANDREW MAGEE:  Absolutely.  I really didn't play much in December and I was trying to stay home and stay with my kids and family and hopefully be fresher for the Aprils and Mays in that part of the year where I haven't been that good.  And, so, I am very surprised that I started off this good and I am hitting the ball well.  I am excited.  This is fun.  This is what it is all about.  And, I am juiced at this point.  I am hoping every tournament is going to be this good this year. 
 

Q.  At this point we are starting off on that two-year  quest to get to the Ryder Cup.  Is that somewhere in the back of your mind also?
 
ANDREW MAGEE:  I mean, my quest for Presidents Cup (inaudible) I had good finish last year and got quite a few points and so that is something that is definitely in the back of my mind.  I haven't really thought about the Ryder Cup at this point. 
 
ANDREW MAGEE:  All right.  Later. 
  
 
End of FastScripts.....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT