FBR OPEN
February 2, 2006
Andrew Magee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
You're here on a sponsor's exemption.  Nice round.
ANDREW MAGEE:  Yeah, I hit the ball nice.  I've been hitting the ball solid, but I've been making bogeys and putting the ball in some not so fun places.  Today was a good ball striking day, had lots of opportunities, and it was fun to play like that.
Q.  Did something happen on the back nine?
ANDREW MAGEE:  I stayed patient.  I just made some nice putts and put the ball in the middle of the green.  When you're making some 20 footers you can play a little more patient, put it in the middle of the green and not get too aggressive, and it paid off.
Q.  Course conditions?
ANDREW MAGEE:  They're pretty hard and fast.  I mean, I hit a 5 iron to 15, the par 5, downwind from the back tee, the new back tee.  It was like, wow.  I was hitting 3 woods there a couple days ago, so they're playing pretty fast downwind, pretty firm.
Q.  Tucson has been good to you.  Are you planning on playing down there this year?
ANDREW MAGEE:  Sure, absolutely.
Q.  What do you hear about the rumors, about match play going there?
ANDREW MAGEE:  I have no idea.  I haven't heard a thing about rumors in Tucson.  I have no idea what you're talking about.
Q.  Let me ask you this:  Have you played The Gallery down there?
ANDREW MAGEE:  No.  Wait, didn't we play there when we had hail that day?
Q.  Yeah.
ANDREW MAGEE:  Yeah, that was the hailstorm day.  Yeah, that was a nice course.  I'm 145th on the Money List.  I'm not really worried about getting into the match play tournament down there.
Q.  What was the course like for you?
ANDREW MAGEE:  It was a nice course.  Are you a member there?
Q.  No, I wish.
ANDREW MAGEE:  It's very nice.
Q.  With your schedule, you're not sure where you're going to play.
ANDREW MAGEE:  I'm just waiting on sponsor exemptions.  I'm just trying to see if I made any friends over the last 22 years out here.  Playing sporadically like I am, I hope I can pick and choose and play well.  Maybe all those tournaments I don't get into are the ones I'll miss the cut in or something, so maybe I'll get lucky and choose the right ones.
Q.  Do you know where you're going after this?
ANDREW MAGEE:  One at a time, man.
Q.  That's three tournaments early in the year, so you're doing all right?
ANDREW MAGEE:  I wasn't concerned about that coming into this year.  I knew I'd get a few tournaments.  Last year I was 124th on the Money List and got in 22 or 24 events.  I've won more tournaments than that guy did, so I'm guessing I can get a little more.
Q.  Any long bombs today, Andrew?
ANDREW MAGEE:  Not really bombs, but 20 footers.  I made a couple 20 footers.  I had a few, and I set myself up nicely for them and I hit some good shots and had a line to the hole kind of where you're supposed to putt from.  It was a good day for that.
Q.  Are the pins getting closer to the edges, like No. 3?
ANDREW MAGEE:  They'll get closer and closer and closer.  They'll get tight.
Q.  They'll be putting them in the bunkers pretty soon.
ANDREW MAGEE:  Yeah, probably.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT