INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY QWEST
August 4, 2000
Andrew Magee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ANDREW MAGEE:  I appreciate you guys being here this late at night.  What is up?


Q.  Waiting on you.

ANDREW MAGEE:  Okay, I can't believe it. That is nice.

ANDREW MAGEE:  Yeah.

ANDREW MAGEE:  I was sitting there this morning looking through the magazine, yesterday's guide, I guess pairing sheet.  I noticed I had 188 points and I am 8th in the all-time point leaders here, but I couldn't find my name in the money leaders.


Q.  Actually 209, you are in there, but you are --

ANDREW MAGEE:  Yes.  Just didn't get me that far down. 


Q.  You will be on top now.

ANDREW MAGEE:  It kind of stirred my interest.  But no, I started out and birdied No. 10. I birdied it twice now, two days in a row, which has been pretty fortunate.  Made about a 20-footer, so it was a great way to start the day.  I think I hit almost every green but one, I believe, so really had a good ball-striking day.  Next hole, 8-iron, 2-putted from about 25 feet.  No. 12, hit my 3rd hole, hit a 9-iron; missed from about twelve feet.  Birdied No. 13 with a pitching wedge in there, about a 10-footer.  Pitched up to about eight feet on No. 14 for another birdie.  Left my little 10-footer short on the next hole 15 for birdie.  I birdied 16, second day in a row, too.  One of the hardest holes out here.  I am birdieing all the wrong holes.  I birdied 16.  Hit a good 7-iron left of the hole; made a nice putt, about an 18-footer.  Then hit a good drive and a 6-iron to 17, and made about a 20-footer for eagle, 18-, 20-footer.  So had a good nine going.   Hit a good drive on 18, pitching wedge in there, and fluffed it in the bunker.  Made my only bogey of the day.  I think I lost my composure there a little bit.  Hit a bad shot on 18, but was pretty happy about my eagle on 17 still, I think.  So made the turn at plus-12.  I think that is probably easily my best nine holes ever in this event.  In 14 years or 15 years -- I played in every one.  How many of us have played in every one?


Q.  Six since this year now.  (inaudible)?

ANDREW MAGEE:  Made the turn.  Hit a nice drive on 1, and hit a 2-iron from about 250 out there, of course the thin air, knocked it up there ten feet for eagle.  Had a really tough little slick downhill putt, 2-putt.  Made birdie there.  Got up-and-down on the next hole.  So missed two greens today -- three greens, excuse me.  Pitch to about a foot for easy par on 2.  No. 3, good shot in there with a 9-iron, and missed about a 10-footer for birdie.  Then No. 4, another one of the hardest.  Hit 7-iron about 6 feet; made it for birdie.  I birdied the hardest ones out there.  As I finish up here, I hit a good drive,  7-iron to 5, and 2-putted from about 20 feet.  Next hole, hit pitching wedge up about 6 feet.  Made it on 6.  Good birdie hole.  7-iron -- hit 7-iron.  No. 7, hit 7-iron behind the hole, just kind of misread my 15-footer; made par.  No. 8, hit a super drive, really good-looking 3, right in the middle, front middle of the green. Went right over the green.  I couldn't believe it. Nice high fade in there. I noticed that green was rock hard yesterday.  I probably should have tried to hit a higher 3-iron in there.  It went over the green.  I putted up from off the green pretty far off the green to about three feet; I missed it for birdie.  Pretty upsetting.  I know the all-time low day score is 19.  I knew it.  I knew it on about No. 5 I was thinking, oh, I am going here -- I am thinking about I could score.  And of course, I finished up at 18 and missed it by one.  No. 9, left bunker, hit 8-iron up there, came back about ten feet, twelve feet.  Hit a good putt. It didn't go in, so I was still -- I caught a piece of the bottom of the cup.  Then you heard Jimmy Vickers yell at the ball a little bit.  I finished up at 18 knowing 18 was a  record.  I just had to cinch in a 3-footer on 8 to get it.


Q.  (Inaudible.)

ANDREW MAGEE:  I cannot miss this event. This is one of my home events, especially being sponsored by Coors.  Denver is one of our adopted cities.  I think my wife knows Downtown Denver better than she knows Downtown Phoenix.  And I am very close to the Vickers family and Jimmy and Michael and Jack Vickers, so this is one of my favorite events of the year.  I was watching Ernie Els in here yesterday talking about, he has to come back, play here every year.  I feel the same way.  I am going to play here probably 'til I'm 60.


Q.  You had a very bizarre, if I recall correctly, you had a very bizarre thing happen to you here in the early years of the tournament.

ANDREW MAGEE:  You remember this?


Q.  A yellow bug that caused you to be DQ'd, right?

ANDREW MAGEE:  Well, it didn't cause me to be DQ'd.  My stupidity did.


Q.  You marked the ball on the fringe because there was a bug -- 

ANDREW MAGEE:  I did.  I was going along pretty good there. I am not sure what year this is. 1990 or 1989 or something, had an eagle putt on 17 from off the fringe.  One of these yellow bugs -- I haven't seen any lately for a couple of years.  I killed thousands of these yellow bugs out here.  I'd stomp them.  I remember that one yellow bug, I was playing with Mark Lye and Ben Crenshaw and I had this similar ruling early in the year at Muirfield where I had a bug on my ball and Glenn Tait came over and it wouldn't leave.  He said, you can mark your ball; knock the bug off.  That is what I did at Muirfield, and no problem.  Then here the same thing I had this bug crawling on my ball and I asked Mark Lye.  He said, I am not real sure.  I asked Ben, no problem, mark your ball, go about your business.  That was the last time I would ever listen to one of my Tour buddies.  I made an eagle putt.  I get plus 5.  That was everyday cuts.  Make it to Sunday.  Then I sign my card and Mike Shea walks over and says:  I think we have a problem.  I am going, 17?  He goes, you can't touch your ball.  I went, oh, shit.  You know, so I had already signed my card.  If I hadn't already signed my card I would have been -- I would have been assessed a penalty.  I would have at least made some  cash; instead I got DQ'd and I went back and flipped beer bottle caps off my floor at the Embassy Suites for a couple of hours.


Q.  What was -- what was it like today to have -- not to start so late and to see what Ernie was doing and Greg was doing out there and were they finished by the time you got started?

ANDREW MAGEE:  They had finished and I played so early on Wednesday and Thursday I was really glad to have some time to rest.  I played 7:30 on the early Pro-Am time and 7:09 yesterday and I have been off for two weeks, so I have had plenty of rest so what am I talking about?  But it felt nice to sleep in a little bit and I saw what those guys did.  I just -- you just got to go out and play your own game; can't worry about what they do.  Just felt good today.  Went out there, birdied the first hole; felt comfortable.  I had half the Vickers family out there following me around.  It is nice to make a putt and see a bunch of happy smiling faces.  They didn't really influence me.  I am going --- what did Ernie shoot 32, 34?


Q.  34.

ANDREW MAGEE:  I am going:  That is deep. But you know, it is the same story every week, someone  goes out and  blitzes it up on a Friday morning, Thursday morning, it happens every week out here.  You can't get too excited about it.  You got to realize it is a four-day horserace and just try to do the best you can.  I am just trying to get my name in Buddy's  -- up in his money list.


Q.  It is in there, show him, in the record book.

ANDREW MAGEE:  I found out Larry Thiel has got me in the pool.  I can't -- (inaudible).


Q.  What happened there about four, five years ago for you, kind of jump-started you when you came out and practiced at Castle Pines?  Talk about that.

ANDREW MAGEE:  As I look back I have been on Tour 16 years and I don't think I have ever had a very good June or July ever and that has been the case this year again.  I just came off a pretty poor three-week stretch of Hartford, Chicago, and Milwaukee, missing all three cuts,  really not playing good, not feeling good, tired, and just wondered if I should take the rest of the year off, get ready for next year. Of course, I had two weeks off, but that year it was a similar story.  And I hadn't played good all summer.  I fired my caddie.  I needed a caddie. I remember a kid from the year before that  caddied my bag one hole.  It was Eric Meller letter who was a local caddie here.  So I called Keith Schneider, and I asked Keith:  I forget Eric's name. What is that kid's name that you used that one year? He is a good caddie out there. He said:  That is Eric.  I said:  I think I'll recognize him if I see him.  I said, would you call Eric and line him up for this year's tournament.  He gave me his phone number. I talked to him.  We made the cut and made a nice check about 40 grand or something that year - and the first cut in a couple of months.  I asked Eric if he wanted to be a gypsy on the road, be my caddie.  We joined up ever since.  He has been my caddie every tournament since.  Eric Meller.  Wonderful young guy and he is my buddy out here on the Tour and we have got a great relationship. .


Q.  Is your relationship with the Vickers family both business and the Oklahoma Alumni Association, little of both?

ANDREW MAGEE:  It is not business.  We just play and --


Q.  I know your dad was in the business; they were in the business?

ANDREW MAGEE:  My dad was a -- these guys own  their own oil company.  My caddie was just a geologist for Mobile Oil.  I met Jimmy at the Trans-Miss probably my sophomore year in Oklahoma City.  Heck, that is almost 20 years ago now.  18 years ago, and he is Oklahoma Alumni, I know they are very involved in the Trans-Miss Association.  I played in that tournament every year.  As it turned out, Michael, his son, lived in Scottsdale where I moved to; became good friends with Michael and so just everywhere I went, I kept bumping into Vickers.  I'd see Bobby Vickers and Greg on the road and hang out with those guys, but I have always been a close friend of Jimmy.  Jimmy, he can find me no matter where I am in the world.  He is the greatest phone detective there is.  I remember my rookie year on Tour, I played in the Baltimore Classic it was TPS or some kind before the Hogan, Nike Tour back then, my first pro event.  I was flying to Stockholm to play in the Scandanavian Open.  I fly all night.  I go up the elevator, check into my room, I am laying there exhausted.  The phone rings.  I said it's Jimmy.  I don't know how he could find me.  He knows how to call my wife or call IMG.  My wife never knows where I am, but Jimmy can find me.  He knows how to use the tournament, call people, he will always find me.  He is the most religious caller I know.  He calls  me all the time and we have great talks and he has been a great supporter of mine through business decisions and swing decisions and lots of aspects of my life.


Q.  One comment on the board up there. You got some pretty good talent up there on that leaderboard?

ANDREW MAGEE:  This board, all I heard was the field is not very strong this year and all this and that I look up at the board this morning, we got Els, Norman, Mickelson, I am going this is just outstanding.  This is looks like the U.S. Open here. My caddie said put Duval in there too, it will really look good.  It is an outstanding leaderboard and I am glad to be here and glad to be playing good.  Working on my game hard last two weeks.  I am excited to get out there tomorrow and play.  As good a day as today was, I am excited to go out there and see if I can do it again.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT