BOB HOPE CHRYSLER CLASSIC
January 20, 2000
Andrew Magee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ANDREW MAGEE: I'm obviously very pleased by the way I've hit the ball the last two
days. I made a lot of putts. Today I had a bogey yesterday and yesterday I had two bogeys.
So I'm keeping those to a minimum. Yesterday, I probably hit the ball a little better than
today. Today, I kind of scrambled better and made every birdie putt I needed to make. That
was basically the difference. The front nine today, I hit two perfect drives on the par 5s
and made pars, and the back nine I hit two terrible drives in the trees and made birdie.
That's golf, and go figure. 

Q. Everybody has been talking about the greens at Indian Wells. Everybody talks about
the conditions of these courses, anyway, and you have to have good conditions to shoot low
scores. Is that the only reason people shoot low out here because it's perfect? 

ANDREW MAGEE: Haven't you been watching those commercials, "These guys are
good"? I haven't played that much in the off-season and came out here and seems like
everybody is warmed up and ready to go and ready to play and they are hungry to play. Guys
are meaner and leaner. Craig Stadler lost 36 pounds. Craig Parry looks good. Guys who were
a little bit chunky now are really looking lean. And I'm not even talking about David
Duval. Guys are really, really good and they are hungry. And of course, the conditions are
wonderful and the wind is not blowing. Indian Wells greens are the best greens. I've
played them all now,but they are usually the best and the truest. So if you don't get you
a good score here, then you feel like you've really lost some ground.

Q. When are you going to the weight room to drop weight and list weights? 

ANDREW MAGEE: You know the only weight I lift is about 12 ounces at a time. I'm not
free of talking about my weight loss and weight gain. I do that behind closed doors, thank
you. I do a little bit of lifting here and there and exercise. I just try to keep -- I
just try to keep it the same. Just try balancing out my off-season. 

Q. You came close to winning here a couple of years ago, I think you finished third. By
most accounts this is a difficult golf tournament for pros because of the distractions and
the different courses and everything. Duval said the other day you just kind of have to
embrace all of the hassles that are going on is that what you have to do?

ANDREW MAGEE: You really do. I teed off at Indian Wells this morning and a guy dropped
a bottle in my backswing on the 1st hole. And guys were cleaning shutters on about the 4th
hole and I had to back off some shots, a lot of stuff going on here. You're right next to
a lot of houses and people coming out and opening their garage doors and the amateurs
walking around and all that. I think the amateurs are fine, but it's mostly their helpers,
their caddies, that have no idea what to do with the cart and where to park it, and when
to yell if you need a wedge or a 9-iron. There are a lot of distractions. Just part of the
Bob Hope Desert Classic, and you expect it. I guess how you deal with it, I guess, makes
the difference. I lived in the desert in Phoenix; so I do feel comfortable playing these
kind of courses. I can't explain any good fortune I've had here. I didn't have that much
good fortune for many years. This is my 16th year here, and I've played good the last two
out of three years; so I don't have any idea why. 

ANDREW MAGEE: I bogeyed the first hole. Hit it a little right and hit the marshal and
it went behind the tree -- he didn't apologize. Chipped out made bogey and I hit a wedge
on the next hole to about four feet and made birdie. Hit a sand wedge on the next hole,
No. 3, about four feet and made birdie again. No. 6, hit a 9-iron about 30 feet left of
the hole and made a long putt. No. 7, I hit it left, down in the valley down there and
kind of gassed a wedge up there about eight feet and made it for birdie. And then didn't
birdie 8 or 9 or 10 or 11. Then I birdied No. 12. I hit a sand wedge about five feet. Next
hole, 13, the par 3, I hit a really nice 5-iron behind the hole best shot of the day, made
it about six feet for birdie. The par 5, No. 14, I hit it left in the trees and hit a 7 in
the middle of the fairway and hit a full sand wedge up there about three feet and made it
for birdie. 18, I hit a driver right a little bit and it hit a divot up there and just
trickled out thank goodness. And I hit a 7-iron to the middle of the fairway again, and
hit a full pitching wedge up about eight feet and made it for birdie. Wasn't real easy for
me on the par 5s for me. Need to go out and work on my tee shots a little bit. 

Q. Could you please just give some general comments about the round and your position
after 2? 

ANDREW MAGEE: I made the mistake yesterday of talking to some friends of mine in
Phoenix after my round, who told me I was leading. And I looked at the board about two
hours later and the guys are still finishing and I wasn't even close to leading. So I'm
pleased I didn't play that much in the off-season this year. I didn't really expect a
whole lot this week coming in here and found some good stuff, hitting the ball solid and
putting well so I'm extremely pleased with my position, whatever it may be, after today
rounds. And anything in the 60s or mid-60s here every day keeps you in contention. And we
all know about 30-under is kind of a number all the time, and 5 times 6 is 30; so 66s and
stuff like that are always good here.

Q. You said on the 1st hole you hit a marshal?

ANDREW MAGEE: He said he wasn't ready yet. 

Q. You didn't hit him on the fly, though, did you?

ANDREW MAGEE: I think I did. He was sitting on a chair, and I think my ball hit right
under his chair and came up and hit him on the butt and the ball went up behind the tree.

Q. So it hit a nice soft spot then?

ANDREW MAGEE: It hit a nice soft spot. It would have ended up being a nice shot; I
would have had a shot at the green and it -- he said he wasn't ready for the round to
start, and I said, "Well, it started, Buddy, let's go." 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT