BAY HILL INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY COOPER TIRES
March 19, 1999
Andrew Magee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ANDREW MAGEE:  Man, I really, really putted pretty good for two days.  That's kind of been the difference.  Made some long putts, which I haven't done in quite a while.  Made some nice 15-, 20-footers yesterday, and today I made about a 15-, 20-footer on the third hole for birdie after bogeying the first hole, the 3-putt - my only 3-putt I have had.  And I think it has been the difference, as I have putted very well for two days.  Kept the ball in play with my tee shots and haven't been striking my irons as of yet.   But I've hit quite a nice few shots up there 15 feet, not making those kind of putts.  I haven't been making 8- to 10-footers that much, as much as I have been making the 15-footers. 
 
ANDREW MAGEE:  Good, see you later. 
 

Q.  Still got a lot of confidence from a couple of weeks ago?
 
ANDREW MAGEE:  Oh, sure.  I've definitely got a lot of confidence from a couple of weeks ago.  Gary suggested we have a Match Play event on the weekend here.  I thought that was a great idea.  No, I have confidence.  I didn't -- I have a whole lot going into the Match Play.  I gained a whole bunch from it after that.  I played really well all week over there at La Costa, obviously, and went home for two weeks off.  And really -- you don't really know what you are going to have when you come back.  I was trying to remember all those good things that I was doing there, and I amazingly enough, over two weeks I had still remembered when I got here what I was doing good, so it has carried over. 
 

Q.  Have you got recognized more at all because of the Match Play?
 
ANDREW MAGEE:  I get recognized a lot more.  It is unbelievable.  Unbelievable. 
 

Q.  Is that good or bad?
 
ANDREW MAGEE:  I don't know.  I don't know yet.  Before I got recognized once in a while.  I went to Canada skiing last weekend - Canada.  That is way far away from everywhere else in Whistler.  People were walking down the street turning their heads:  Magee.  I was going:  Shit.  It was kind of strange.  I am not used to that, no. 
 

Q.  (inaudible)
 
ANDREW MAGEE:  I wasn't really watching.  I know Davis hit a shot into the bunker and it plugged.  He had a terrible lie in the bunker.  I guess he was just a little frustrated, I don't  know, I was over trying to hit my chip shot; next thing I know this thing explodes.  And did it ever. 
 

Q.  You have played well on this course before.  What is it about this place that works for you and your game?
 
ANDREW MAGEE:  You know, I just -- I think that the tee shots set up good for me.  Maybe I am a good long-iron player, I can cut the corners a little bit with my tee shots and not have to hit as many long irons as many guys, I am a longer hitter, I think it is a longer hitter's course.  I don't know why Loren Roberts won here so many times. I have just had good vibes ever since the first time I played here.  I think I finished pretty good and I think it was 1988 my first time here and I will never forget playing with Fuzzy Zoeller, I was playing with him on Saturday or Sunday, I think that was the year he won.  I got to watch a winner walk down the 18th hole.  That was kind of a thrill my first time to watch -- to play with a guy that was actually going to win the tournament. I just have always had nice tournaments here.  It sets up well.  I feel comfortable with the course, and you know, it is hard to explain.  I have had good results and I expect to, I guess. 
 

Q.  What are you playing up to Augusta Augusta?
 
ANDREW MAGEE:  I planned on playing them all. 
 
ANDREW MAGEE:  You guys really want to go over my birdies?  You guys care about that?  No, you don't.  Well, let's see, 3-putted the first hole.  I 2-putted the second hole there a long way for par.  Hit it about 15 feet on 3. Made birdie.  No. 6 the par 5, I hit a good drive very good drive and I hit a 4-iron on the par 5 to my second shot up on the edge of the fringe.  I chipped -- almost chipped it in for eagle; made a tap-in birdie there.  No. 12 I hit sandwedge to a foot.  Davis gave me that that was a gimme.  13, I hit my middle wedge to about 15, 20 feet; made it for birdie.  14, I hit a -- made a long putt on the 14th hole in the back of the green.  The par 3 I have got that hole total of 4 in two days, so I think I got a skin there so far.  That was probably a 30, 40-footer there, 30-footer.  No. 16 I hit good drive and 3-iron to the right edge of the green and lagged it down made about a 5-footer for birdie. And 17, got up-and-down hit it close and 18 hit it in there about eight feet and missed it.  So I had some opportunities and I made most of my opportunities today. 
 

Q.  Increased your sock allotment?
 
ANDREW MAGEE:  It was really kind of ironic because I had a box in my locker all week at La Costa, it was from Reebok.  I wear the Reebok shoes.  It was in a box, shoe box size, so I figured it is a pair of shoes.  I didn't even pick it up or anything.  It was a dozen socks.  Socks I was wearing, they were  stinky La Costa, you know, they were fancy kind of formal thin things that fell down, I had to pull them up all the time.  If I had some good socks, no telling what I would have done(laughter). 
 

Q.  Did you say socks?
 
ANDREW MAGEE:  Socks.  Yeah.  Where were you?  Okay. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT