WGC ANDERSEN CONSULTING MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 28, 1999
Andrew Magee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ANDREW MAGEE:  We both had chances, and we both missed some good birdie putts to make a difference, anytime, anywhere.  I started really hot this morning and had four birdies on the first 9, and being 2-down early, had some nice momentum.  If it was a nine-hole tournament, I might have won, but I had 27 more to play.  I think he had a lot of good opportunities, a lot of good putts that lipped out.  He probably played a little better than I did.  Chipping the last holes was a great way to end. 
 
ANDREW MAGEE:  I can't remember the score card; so let don't do that. 
 

Q.  Did you feel a lot of pressure coming down the stretch?
 
ANDREW MAGEE:  I felt about the same as I did all week.  I was actually very loose coming down the stretch, and I know I needed to make a birdie somewhere to untie this deal and couldn't do it.  I hit a good putt on 17.  I really thought I made that one after seeing his kind of break left and short of the hole.  I thought I made that putt on 17.  A little disappointed that my third shot was that far from the hole.  I hit a sand wedge there this morning and sucked it back to the front of the green, and I guess that green got a little firmer this afternoon.  I hit a similar type of shot.  It bounced forward; so, I did what I was trying to do, and I wish -- I was expecting just to hit it for a gimme on any one of those holes.  I couldn't.  I thought I was going to hole out the last hole.  My mindset was pretty good.  I was thinking positive and trying to hit great shots in there to  try to get in there so I couldn't miss. 
 

Q.  Any nerves at all on the chip on 18, the one that was four feet --
 
ANDREW MAGEE:  10.  I kind of stubbed a little bit.  That was the weakest part of my game lately, those little pitch shots.  Depending on how the grass is growing, those are always kind of sticky little shots.  I didn't hit it that great.  I am not really comfortable over those shots.  My pitching and chipping probably hurt me more than anything else this week.  But everything else -- I drove it exceptional all week long.  My iron game was very good.  That is my biggest paycheck by double. 
 

Q.  Can you just go over the chances you thought you had like on the last nine?
 
ANDREW MAGEE:  Well, obviously, No. 10 was a huge hole.  He hit his drive in the right rough.  It kind of bounced in the semi-rough.  Hit a good second shot.  Ran it up in the middle of green.  Made it from 30 feet after I had hit a really good 7-iron about 11, twelve feet.  And so, I mean the hole just turns that fast.  I had the upper hand there to get it going, and he quickly made a long putt and turned it right around.  I missed.  And then we were above to 12 or 11, and we both screwed that one up.  12.  I made birdie.  I felt like I needed to birdie the par 5s.  I needed to birdie No. 2, which I did.  I needed to birdie No. 9, which I didn't.  And No. 12 is the one of holes I had can get home in two pretty easily.  I don't consider 17 the same as those other three, but I had a good opportunity there.  I had a good opportunity on No. 13, the same line I had on my par-putt this morning; so I really knew what it was going to do, and I just didn't play enough break, I think.  And it slid by to the right. That was a good opportunity.  I had a nice 2-putt lag on 14.  It has been playing very tough all week, but that green is probably the hardest green out there.  No one can get it close to that pin.  It is just impossible.  We both made nice 3s.  The next hole we both kind of screwed up with good tee shots.  I got 115 yards with pitching wedge in there, just came off it; hit a really lousy shot. That is probably my poorest shot of the day, I would have to say, was that one there on 15.  Really had a chance to gain the upper hand and hit a good shot, and didn't stay with the shot at all.  Kind of came up out of it; fluffed it over to the right.  16, hit a good drive and a 6-iron to the middle of the green about 20 feet, and I felt like I needed to make a putt somewhere.  I needed to -- I hadn't made a putt for quite a while.  Needed to make something to take charge of this thing or do something, because usually my nature is I am sliding along.  I didn't close anybody out 5-4 or 4-3 this week; so I am just kind of hanging in there all the time.  It is not my nature to be, you know, too cut-throat out there.  But 16, I felt like I needed to make that putt. I ran it way by; made it coming back, which was a stupid move.  17, hit a good putt.  Didn't go in.  18, I hit 8-iron over right over the flag.  It kind of just bounces in the right in the fringe.  I really wanted to have that thing on the green.  You can't predict it is going to come out of the fringe very well.  I am disappointed with my effort on 18.  I really wish that ball sat down right where it hit.  I would have had an about 8-footer, about -- left edge putt, a much more makeable putt than hit it off the fringe.  No. 10, the first playoff hole, hit nice par save.  That was to keep us going.  Then, of course, the ending was pretty classic, I thought. 
 

Q.  A little steam on the chip shot, doesn't go in?
 
ANDREW MAGEE:  It went in, Jeff.  Don't work it.  He was trying to make it.  It went right in the back.  Had some steam, but it went right in.  He was obviously trying to make it to win the match and send me out of here, and he did.  He did what he had to do. 
 

Q.  What was going through your mind on each shot as  it got closer and closer?
 
ANDREW MAGEE:  His shot? 
 

Q.  Yeah.
 
ANDREW MAGEE:  I was thinking, you know:  We are going to go to another hole and he is going to chip it up there and we are both probably going to make par.  We are going to have to play 17 again.  I was thinking about kind of getting going on 17:  What am I going to do?  Make a birdie on that one, of course.  That was quickly diminished. 
 

Q.  You mentioned yesterday the motivating force of money.  At any time did you think of what the match meant or were you able to keep focused on playing golf?
 
ANDREW MAGEE:  I thought about the money all day (laughter).  Absolutely.  I knew what was at stake.  You know, I don't think it has any effect on the way I am going to play anyway.  I have no regrets.  I played as good as I could, and just missed a few shots here and there, and that is a lot of golf.  I can't remember.  How many holes was that this week? A lot of holes.  You are going to hit some good ones and bad ones, and you know, I hit a lot of good ones this week and beat a lot of guys; so I have no regrets at all.  Classic way to end, chipping in like that I thought that was pretty good.  I even enjoyed it a little bit, being the weirdo that I am. 
 

Q.  Has the experience this week made you any more interested in heading into the Ryder Cup?
 
ANDREW MAGEE:  You're always interested in getting on the Ryder Cup team, yes.  Doesn't matter, but just because this is the first $5 million purse, I have played in doesn't mean I can play for trophies, too (laughter).  No, I am always interested.  I am not sure where I stand, probably about 25th on the list.  And no, this is a double-point year, and I am there to carry this week over into Bay Hill, my next tournament, and go out there and try to win and try to keep my momentum going.  I think I gained a lot of confidence this week, and that is good.  I am excited. 
 

Q.  Do you think this event worked all the whole  total picture, when you look back at it?  Obviously, people were talking about some of the high seeds going --
 
ANDREW MAGEE:  I don't think it worked for you. (laughter).  I think it worked for me.  I am pretty happy with it.  I am sure you guys are all disappointed with the finals, but I kind of felt like it was this is entertaining day for everybody.  It was a close match.  It was, you know, we tried to give the folks -- they could just kind of putt blinders on and think we were Tiger and Duval out.  There, they won't know the difference. 
 

Q.  A million bucks, 38 holes:  Was that a fun experience?
 
ANDREW MAGEE:  Fantastic.  It is a day I will probably never forget.  I can forget the last day pretty fast, but this week was probably one of my easily my best on Tour I have ever had.  It was wonderful.  Even not winning, I probably remember this week more than any of my four wins.  Of course, they have been so long ago that I don't remember them anyway, but -- 
 

Q.  Jeff, has come close to winning a lot of golf tournaments last few years.  The pros always kind of thought he was a little better than the public might have thought he was?
 
ANDREW MAGEE:  Absolutely.  He is a real good player.  He probably shies away from the limelight quite a bit, which is his nature, and that is the way he goes about his business.  But you know, he played couple President Cups; is that right? 
 
ANDREW MAGEE:  And two Ryder Cups? 
 
ANDREW MAGEE:  He is a really steady, solid player.  I am sure he wasn't real happy with his game today.  He hit some funny shots for him, and he lipped out a lot of putts that he could have made, but them's the breaks.  And I problems.  I did the same thing. 
 

Q.  What happens in a situation like that?  He missed  6 or 7 all day long.  Do you feel like you dodged a bullet, or you feel like you got the upper hand?
 
ANDREW MAGEE:  Both.  I felt like I dodged a bullet, sure, but every time he is over those putts, I am thinking he is going to make them.  I have already geared myself into thinking he is going to make those and might have to go to the next tee with that thought being even or 1-down, or whatever, after he makes it.  So, you know, I was surprised he missed some putts, but no one makes them all, and if he has any shortcomings with his game, it is probably putting. We all know he is a great ball-striker and keeps the ball in play most of the time.  If he putted like Brad Faxon, he probably win everything.  Don't write that, T. R..  You said it, what? 
 

Q.  After this week, what is your favorite golf format:  Match Play or stroke-play?
 
ANDREW MAGEE:  Well, obviously I had a great week.  I didn't expect to be here this long through the whole week, and I enjoyed it.  I felt like I thrived under the situation, and I played Match Play everyday and it wasn't -- I really didn't think about stroke-play that much.  I thought about it last night:  If I can go out, shoot a pair of 67s, that would be good.  Of course, I didn't do that.  I felt myself playing Match Play probably more than I should have.  I think that is probably the nature of the game that you kind of get yourself into playing the guy.  If he hits it in the water, you hit it way the opposite direction, and, -- you know, but I think I haven't played since '82 in this type of format.  It is not that hard to pick up, I guess. 
 

Q.  How long was that putt that you missed on 17? Looked like it was going to go in.
 
ANDREW MAGEE:  Oh, it was probably twelve feet. 
 

Q.  That seemed like from your body language, that was the most frustrating?
 
ANDREW MAGEE:  Well, I hit a really good putt and it was frustrating, and I knew you don't get these opportunities very often.  I have got a chance to go 1-up with one to play; that almost -- if you  can get that thing in there, and that million dollars would be mine, but. 
 

Q.  Had you ever dreamt at all about chipping in for a win in a tournament?
 
ANDREW MAGEE:  Sure.  I chipped one the other day for a win in one of my matches. 
 

Q.  To win a tournament?
 
ANDREW MAGEE:  I'm apt to dream a lot of things, but, yeah, I can do that. 
 

Q.  Maybe Tour Championship should be Match Play?
 
ANDREW MAGEE:  I don't think THE TOUR Championship ought to be that way because we play 38 other tournaments that are stroke-play.  We have the international format which I enjoy also.  I think there is nothing wrong with mixing it up and having a few different types of formats for the spectators and for you guys and for TV.  I think people liked it.  We will see by the TV ratings later if anybody watched this or not. 
 

Q.  Do you buy the theory that we can go, you know, 50 years and not have a more eclectic group of guys in the Final 4 who are -- more specifically, is it fathomable that we can go a long time without having no marquis guys in it or it is really that random? Is it?
 
ANDREW MAGEE:  I think it is really that random.  I don't -- we got guys that are dominating golf right now, Tiger, Duval, O'Meara, these guys are dominating -- Ernie Els.  They are the world's best players.  They came in here and everybody was dead even.  For an 18-hole shootout, maybe if you gave them 36 holes to catch up or something, maybe not, but those guys were so good week-in and week-out. Seeing some of the things -- the scores they shoot every week, you kind of go wow.  No, I think I don't even pretend to try to be in their league most of the time.  I am just trying to go out there and be real quiet around them and make sure they don't see me. 
 

Q.  What are you going to do with all that money?
 
ANDREW MAGEE:  I am going to pay for my house. I am going to invest it wisely.  (laughter).  I am going to call Charles Schwab.  PGA TOUR and we are going to talk.  Don't worry.  I will figure it out.  (laughter) I have got a wife.  (laughter). 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT