NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 13, 2010
Nate Robinson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Are you going to go for four?   
 NATE ROBINSON: No, no, no, no, no. I don't think I can bear that anymore. I'm just happy with this third one, man, you know, I thank God for it, continue to just try to take things to the next level.   
  
  Q. You mentioned your mom when you were being interviewed on TV, can you elaborate is everything okay?   
 NATE ROBINSON: She's fine. She's just been a little sick. She's been throwing up a lot. The hospital is giving her an IV everything and to make sure she's okay. She was supposed to come in, but I know my mom is real strong.   
 She said she won't be able to make it but again she told me to just go out there and be me, and I did that for her.   
  
  Q. What did you like best about your performance tonight? It was a little different than past years.   
 NATE ROBINSON: The best thing, I brought them with me right here, the Dallas cheerleaders, of course. I asked them if they can help me out with a dunk and everything and they did their job and I did mine.   
  
  Q. I wonder what you thought of Rosen's dunks tonight including him having the 50 in the first round.   
 NATE ROBINSON: A young fella, he can jump, he has a lot of creativity with his dunks. Downstairs he was practicing some different dunks I thought he was going to do but I guess they was just for warmups.   
 Don't be surprised if you see him next year. Hopefully I can give my brother, Terrence Williams, I've known him for a long time, if he were him in the dunk context, I know he probably would have won this one. He's at home probably wondering, "Why they didn't let me be in it." You're going to see a lot more of that kid.   
  
  Q. Can you tell me when it came down to that last dunk, were you getting a little nervous with that dunk that Rosen did, and what did you do to figure out this dunk? Did you have this preplanned?   
 NATE ROBINSON: I knew that the last thing I did was going to be the final dunk for me. I was just waiting, waiting to see -- like before his first dunk, when he jumped over his teammate. I was like, all right, because I was trying to do the dunk between the legs underneath the basket. I couldn't get it, so I just get a dunk to get some points.  
 And I knew my last dunk was going to be difficult to beat. And then you know, he jumped I think from the dotted line or the windmill, he tried the first time, I don't know what he did, I missed it. But he missed the dunk, thank God, and the last dunk, you know, and the fans voted. They voted for me I guess.   
  
  Q. Was this contest for you as exciting as the previous ones in terms of the competition and the dunks of this context?  
 NATE ROBINSON: I mean, all of them were. All of them were. That's the beauty about the NBA, you know, you have different kind of athletes, you have different kind of players and you have different kind of dunkers.   
 So again, you've got to be on your A Game and you've got to step to the plate, you know, ready to hit a home run, and that's what I tried to do tonight.  
  
  Q. Most guys do this one, maybe two years, can you talk about the difficulty of trying to be creative and coming up with new dunks as you move into your third career?  
 NATE ROBINSON: You know you just have to try to figure out a dunk that nobody's tried, or kind of like a tribute dunk, I guess, or you know, a copycat dunk, you could say.   
 But myself, I just think, you know, different kids, I see if can get people's attention, and that's what you've got to try to do.   
  
  Q. When did you come up with the idea to bring the cowboy cheerleaders?   
 NATE ROBINSON: We were in Dallas, so right when they said I was in it, I was like, I've got to be creative, I've got to think of something fast, and I was like, well, I'm a football guy, I watch a lot of football. So I see them all the time, especially on that big JumboTron, can't miss them. I was like, why not, we're in Dallas and just play homage to them. They do a phenomenal job. And I'm a football guy, so I love football.  
  
  Q. When will you start preparing for your next title?   
 NATE ROBINSON: No more titles. No more. Finished. It's the last one.   
  
  Q. You mentioned the Dallas Cowboy cheerleaders, was there ever a serious thought to using one of them as a prop, more integrated than what you already did out there?  
 NATE ROBINSON: No, that was the main thing just to have them out there. I mean, they are pretty much, you know, the face of the Cowboys, always there, there's about a hundred of them, and so you know, they picked the best four and you know, they was just -- have them come out and prepare them for the fans and everything for Sunday's game. I thought that was the main thing.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT