NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 14, 2009
Nate Robinson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   NATE ROBINSON: I just thank God, I just thank God for the ability to be able to jump. It is pretty cool. It is pretty awesome.

 Q. When did you come up with the idea of approaching Dwight to help you out in that dunk and what was his reaction? 
 NATE ROBINSON: I asked him yesterday in the elevator. He was like, Hey, I'll do it. I thought he was joking. He said, Yeah, I'll do it. I was like, all right, that's going to be the final dunk if I make it to the finals. 
 Then I have the green jersey with these shoes. Nike did a great job of making the shoe, making the sleeves and everything. It was just a great night.

 Q. Did you practice dunking over a guy his height?
 NATE ROBINSON: Jared Jeffries, I jumped over Jared in practice. I knew if I could jump over Jared, I could jump over Dwight.

 Q. Looked like on one of Dwight's dunks you had a concerned look on your face like you knew it was a pretty good dunk. What was going on there?
 NATE ROBINSON: I think it was a dunk where he threw it on the side of the backboard. We was back there trying it. I was trying it. And I was like, there is no way, this is crazy. I tried 15 times and I couldn't do it. I said this guy is unbelievable. 
 It was crazy because he had been practicing dunking on the 12-foot hoop and he was doing crazy dunks on it. 
 Dwight, he is a great athlete. He is a great guy because he is so cool, so mellow, down to earth, goofy. He likes to have fun, dance, smile. He brings the best out of you. 
 In this dunk contest, you know what I'm saying, I would love to share the championship with him, cut the trophy right down the half with him helping me with the dunk for the championship.

 Q. What does it mean to you personally now that you have won?
 NATE ROBINSON: It is for the kids, honestly. I do the dunking, practicing dunks for the kids because they like to see more and better dunks each year. 
 Right now I'm very grateful for it.

 Q. When and how did you come up with the Kryptonate idea?
 NATE ROBINSON: I wore the white jersey, the blue jersey. I was like I got to come up with something.
 Then when Dwight did the Superman last year, a light bulb went out, ding, ding, ding, there it is. Kryptonite. That's Superman's weakness. God has got to let me win this one just because of the great ideas and the preparation for the dunks, preparing for it, practicing. And it worked out.

 Q. Who called it Kryptonate?
 NATE ROBINSON: I just thought about kryptonite dunk, I didn't come up with Kryptonate. My agent did, actually.

 Q. How do you keep coming up with new ideas? It seems like every dunk that has been done has been done but you guys keep pushing the envelope. 
 NATE ROBINSON: Believe it or not, video games. I said, oh, 2K9. They got the dunk contest, they do crazy dunks, you go back and play NBA Jam, like in the '90s they got the crazy dunks on there, the two-hand windmill, front flip. You just got to use your imagination. When you do that, the sky is the limit.

 Q. With LeBron saying he plans to compete in the contest next year, do you think the contest is kind of back to with like Jordan and 'Nique and guys like that?
 NATE ROBINSON: It is getting there. In this evolution in time, it is getting -- it is coming fast, you know what I'm saying? 
 It is going to be fun to see LeBron in a dunk contest next year. Me, I think -- this is it for me. I'm good. Unless they really, really want me to do it, and I got to figure out some more dunks to do. For the most part, I think I'm done.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT