BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 16, 2019
Nikola Mektic
Horacio Zeballos
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MEKTIC-ZEBALLOS/Kubot-Melo
4-6, 6-4, 10-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. What does it feel like to win this big tournament?
NIKOLA MEKTIC: Unreal, huh?  A little bit unreal.  We're still looking at each other and just repeating, Did we just win?
HORACIO ZEBALLOS: Unbelievable.  Yeah, and being in the big conference.  It's great.  I never been in this room.  I love it.
Q. I don't think either of you have played together very much, this year at least.  How did this partnership come together?
HORACIO ZEBALLOS: Actually, it was the second tournament that we played together, but I think we have a really nice time together, especially on the court.  I mean, we were enjoying a lot.  This kind of tournament you have to enjoy it, because it's the best tournament in the world.
You know, we were doing really good since the beginning.  In the first tournament, we lost in second round.  But I have a good feeling.  That's why I think this work.
Q. Did it take a while to adjust to each other's game?
NIKOLA MEKTIC: Well, for us, it's very easy guy to adjust.  He has all-around game.  Me, as well.  I think we fit very well together.  So even on the first tournament that we played together, without just one day of practice we had before the first tournament, I think we played really well.
So this tournament, I mean, yeah, like, is just great tournament for us.
Q. So when you started this tournament together, did you imagine you could win this event?
HORACIO ZEBALLOS: I have a good feeling about him.  He's a great player.  He was already top 15 at the moment that we decide to play together.  I knew that he was a good player.
We played many times.  I think I never beat him.  I never do, I never.  So I knew that he was good.  I knew I had a good feeling.  I think that's -- because I was playing very good, too, and since the beginning of the year.  So I have, yeah, I felt that we could do good.
Q. What did you think?
NIKOLA MEKTIC: Yeah, I know that we are a great team, that we can beat anyone.  But of course like this doubles, especially on this tournament where every match is few balls, few points will decide who's gonna win.
Of course you're not expecting to win, but we were going into every match confident that we can win, so we just went step by step and it happened.
Q. What's the future of the duo?  Are you going to continue to play together in future tournaments?
HORACIO ZEBALLOS: We didn't talk about that.  Now is the moment to talk, no?  But we have regular partners.  They were both injured, and then we decide to play together.
But actually we didn't talk about it.  I think it's a good option too.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT