CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
September 1, 2019
Marina Alex
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Round of 67, good way to round off a title defense?
MARINA ALEX: It was a great week. Everyone here was super encouraging and they were excited to come out and watch me play, which was nice. Game was pretty good. It's hard to bunker play 19-under and do it again. I played pretty well. 13-under is not bad.
I'm pleased overall. I would have loved to have won again but I'm not disappointed with how I played.
Q. What do you take away from this week as an evolution of your career, in terms of defending for the first time? It is a bit of a different situation to be in.
MARINA ALEX: For sure. I think I handled it pretty well. I'm happy with my ability to kind of handled circumstance and just go out and play, and I went out today and just had a great time and perfect day out there. So it was good to get a good round to finish.
Q. Looking ahead to Solheim Cup, last time you're going to be playing before then. It's a big week for you. How important is it to play well this week?
MARINA ALEX: It was good. It was nice to, like I had mentioned before, I had been working on some stuff with my coach and working on some things with my putting, so it was nice to put that in competition and see some good results. Just looking forward to a little rest and get the game fine-tuned and get over there. It's going to be fun.
Q. Have you had much confidence with Juli about partnerships or your role on the team?
MARINA ALEX: Not yet. I think that she's kind of probably waiting for us to all finish up this week and then we'll dive into what we're about to get started on. I mean, I don't know. I'm not sure who I'll be playing with yet, but it will be fun to see.
Q. I spoke to Suzann Pettersen earlier in the week and she said they have a WhatsApp group?
MARINA ALEX: Yeah, we have a group chat going on. So far it's just been kind of like logistic stuff and things for us to get ready, but I'm sure we'll be getting more fired up as this week goes on.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT