CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 16, 2018
Marina Alex
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What's the story of your day today?
MARINA ALEX: You know, the first like five holes of the course played really challenging today; into the wind for holes 2, 3, and 4.  Made a nice birdie on 1 and I holed out a bunker shot on 5 for birdie.
Kind of just got good momentum from there.  I was able to hit the par-5 in two on 6 and just kind of rode it in.
Made a crazy birdie on 17.  Had the best drive of the day.  I think I had 175 yards to the front of the green and just chunked it straight into the bunker.
Q. You got that win in Portland.  You look really confident in this role right now, this position.  How much did that win helped you ease into these bigger tournaments and get ready for something like this?
MARINA ALEX: Yeah, the win was huge.  Probably a little bit of a monkey off my back just to be able to prove to myself what I'm capable of.  I think it's freed me up from here on out to just kind of play the golf that I know I can.
So I had a great round out there today, and hopefully have a fee more in the tank.
Q. You're one of the most accurate drivers on the LPGA Tour.  Fifth in driving accuracy; 82%.  Nobody is better than you this week.  You haven't missed a fairway.  How important is that club been through two rounds?
MARINA ALEX: Yeah, it's really important.  The fairway bunkers out here are a little penal, so if you're in them sometimes you just don't have a great lie.
Just it's important to get it in the fairway so you can get a good shot into the green.  Positioning on the green is really key to having birdie opportunities.  The greens can be a bit tough if you're in the wrong spot.
Q. The most wins by Americans on tour since 2014, and you're one of those players.  How hard of a task is it for Americans to win on a tour that's gotten so global?
MARINA ALEX: I think it's a hard task for anyone to win; doesn't matter if you're American or not.  There is so much depth on the tour.
Winning is tough.  I mean, we've had I think 25 different winners this year, so the tour is probably in the strongest place it's been definitely since I've been out here.
I don't know.  I'm sure someone can attest there were seasons in years past that had quite a bit of depth as well, but right now it's incredible the talent out here.
Q. Did you put on your Rolex last night?
MARINA ALEX: I did.
Q. Sleep with it?
MARINA ALEX: Yeah.  Gave it a good luck rub for today.  Obviously that worked.
Q. Did last night, reliving the win kind of get you --
MARINA ALEX: Yeah, I guess.  Luckily for me it hasn't been that long.  It's just been a couple months so I'm still -- get a lot of people congratulating me.
It's just a nice reminder of what's happened in the past two months.  It's been a great stretch here.
Q. You started talking about what happened on 17.
MARINA ALEX: Yeah.
Q. Just finish that off, I guess.
MARINA ALEX: It was just a crazy birdie.  Like I said, I had the best driver I had hit all day and just like in a perfect position.  I guess didn't really commit to the type of shot that I was hitting.
Chunked it and had like 53 yards to the hole out of the bunker.  Just played it left because that was kind of the only option I had from that distance.
Hit a good shot, and I don't know, probably had 50 feet at least.  Went in.  Just sometimes that's golf, you know.  You're thinking in your mind you're going to hit it on the green and have an easy two-putt birdie.
Ended up being a birdie, but just in a very different fashion.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT