CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
September 2, 2018
Marina Alex
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Well, it's so much fun to be next to you; you were six shots behind.  It did not look probable that you were going to get this done.  From where did you dig, and what thought and experience did you lean on to shoot 65 and win for the first time?  
MARINA ALEX: Not a lot of experience, to be honest.  The first day I played so incredible, and I knew that it was in there.  Yesterday and on Friday I was a little nervous.  It was tough to back up the first round with some good rounds.  I mean, I shot 1-under each day, and I thought I played okay, and it was actually nice having such a -- just a hole I needed to dig myself out of, so I felt like I could just go out there and free-wheel it and make as many birdies as I could.  I expected -- I don't know how Minjee or Georgia played, but I was expecting that they were going to come out and make several birdies and be under par, so I knew I had to shoot anywhere from -- my goal was 8-under to give myself a chance, but I even thought maybe that wouldn't have been good enough.  I think I shot 7-under, and it was just an incredible day.  I'm proud.   
 Q.  You just told me a few minutes ago that you never looked at the leaderboard.  
MARINA ALEX: No.   
 Q.  So when you birdied 8, you tied the lead.  When you made the birdie at 9, you took a two-shot lead.  You had no idea?  
MARINA ALEX: No, I was trying purposefully not to look at the leaderboard because I think sometimes it just gets me a little stressed out.  I get anxious, and then I think, oh, I have a lead, I need to protect it, and I kind of just pretended all day that I was behind and that I needed to play catch-up.  I think it really helped me just play my best.  I didn't know I had a four-shot lead until basically the third shot -- no, after the third shot into the green here on 18, and I said, Trav, where are we, and he said, oh, you have a four-shot lead.  I said, oh, okay.  It kind of helped a little bit.  It still didn't make it easy, the two-putt, but it definitely did help a little.   
 Q.  How meaningful was it and helpful was it to have Travis on the bag who won here last year with Stacy Lewis?  
MARINA ALEX: Yeah, it's really cool.  He's such a wonderful guy, and he has such a calm demeanor about him, and it definitely helped me relax, and he had so much fun the past three weeks.  He's caddied for me the past three weeks.  I was just kind of waiting for some good golf, and I'm really happy he was along for the ride with me.   
 Q.  Your first win, 124th start.  Does it feel like everything you thought it would be?  
MARINA ALEX: Yeah, for sure.  It's been a lot of hard work.  I haven't been in a ton of contention situation.  A few here and there.  But I really just didn't know how to handle them, and I learned the best that I can.  I'm just really happy.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT