CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
August 31, 2018
Marina Alex
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How was that round?
MARINA ALEX: It was just not as exciting as yesterday.  It's kind of hard to be as exciting.
Q. How did you keep the momentum up?
MARINA ALEX: You know, I made a really nice birdie on 12, was kind of a little bit off with my distances like into the green on the first three holes, but I made three good pars, and I made a nice birdie on 12, had some great looks that just didn't go in.  Made a bogey on 17.  Just hit a -- I thought it was a good shot out of the rough, and it just turned too much, hit a pretty good bunker shot and didn't make a good stroke on the putt.  But had a ton of looks all the way through on the front nine, which was my back nine.  I just really didn't make anything.  They weren't bad strokes or putts, they just didn't go in.  So just carry some good juju into tomorrow.
Q. Greens were rolling pretty fast today; did that affect --
MARINA ALEX: Yeah, a little bit at the end.  They're also -- we're one of the last groups to finish, so they get a little bit bumpy and just tough to -- you hit good putts and they just wobble a little bit and fall off line.  It happens.  Hopefully tomorrow we'll have a little bit more success with getting the ball in the hole.
Q. It's still pretty exciting to see your name at the top of the leaderboard.  How much confidence does that give you?
MARINA ALEX: A ton of confidence.  I'm in a great spot going into the weekend, and still have 36 more holes to play, so I can shoot a couple good low ones on the weekend.
Q. I think a couple years your best 36 holes was like 142.  I think you beat that by like eight or nine strokes?
MARINA ALEX: Really?  I had no idea.  I don't know.  I don't look at that many stats.  It's cool, though.  I just blew it out of the water on that one.
Q. Over the past couple years, how have you seen your game develop?
MARINA ALEX: It's just gotten a little bit better each year that I've been out here.  I've been working with Ian Triggs, my swing coach, now for four years, and it's just nice that everything that we're working on is kind of just becoming my own, and I feel comfortable when I'm swinging.  It just helps, I guess, the confidence and then my mental game improves off of that just because I have good things to fall back on.  So it's all just a work in progress, but I'm excited.
Q. Can you elaborate, like what are you trying to think of or do with your swing?
MARINA ALEX: Not really trying to think of a whole lot.  It's more just picking good targets and judging the distances correctly and just trying to hit the numbers that we're trying to hit, and that's just basically all feel and shot shaping, whether it's fades or draws, high, low, et cetera, just trying to execute the shot, not really thinking about golf swing.
Q. When you started the day, I think you were only one back.  Did that surprise you, or did you think --
MARINA ALEX: No, not at all.
Q. Did you think the course was going to maybe play a little tougher?
MARINA ALEX: No, I thought if anything I would be more than one back to start the day.  The Tour is so competitive, and every week girls are shooting 6-, 7-under pretty regularly.  If you don't keep up that pace, you're going to get left behind.  So to be where I am after only a 1-under round, I'm happy.  Like I still have a really good chance on the weekend.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT