CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
August 30, 2018
Marina Alex
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Clubhouse leader after Round 1 in the morning wave.  Off to such a hot start.  10 birdies this morning, bogey-free.  What was working out there so well for you?
MARINA ALEX: You know, I started off hitting it a little inconsistent, but I made some really good putts.  Made a great birdie putt on 1 and a great save on 2, probably like 15 or 18 feet for par.  And then was just trying to get my bearings and get my ball-striking together.  And then I just started hitting it really well and just kept making great rolls on my putts on the back nine.  So it just turned out to be a great day.
Q. We don't have Stacy Lewis, defending champion, here, but we do have Travis for caddie out here, what's it been like working with him?
MARINA ALEX: It's been a blast.  The timing was great.  And he wanted to work a couple more events before the season ended and I was looking and Trav is awesome, so much fun, really lighthearted, so we're having a great time.
Q. You were out in 32, back in 30.  What about that front nine was just working so well?
MARINA ALEX: Yeah, just trying to figure out how to hit it a little bit better, but not really making too many mistakes while I was just kind of not as sharp tee to green.  And I was able to do that.  And then took advantage of the drivable par 5, I think it's 7.  Made a really nice two-putt birdie there.  And a great up and down on 8.  And then I was just kind of off from there.  Got my ball-striking together and it was awesome.
Q. I hope this gives you a surge of confidence going into Round 2.  What are you going to do to prepare for tomorrow?
MARINA ALEX: Not a whole lot, probably eat as much as I can in the Portland area, because the food here is amazing.
But I'm sure the scores are going to be pretty low this afternoon.  The course is in perfect shape.  So if you're hitting your lines you're going to make a ton of putts.  I'm sure tomorrow 10-under probably won't even be close to the lead when I tee off.  I'm going to have to come out and make as many birdies as I can the next three days.
Q. You actually tied the 18-hole tournament scoring record, 62.  So congratulations.
MARINA ALEX: Thank you.
Q. Good luck tomorrow.
MARINA ALEX: Thanks so much.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT