SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
June 10, 2018
Marina Alex
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I know you wanted that last one.  
MARINA ALEX: I know.  Ahhh!   
 Q.  Talk about...  
MARINA ALEX: Yeah, it was an incredible day.  Got off to a really good start and just tried to carry that momentum the entire day.   
The course -- I definitely think the wind direction was favorable for scoring because the par-5s were all downwind.  They were definitely reachable.  With clubs like less than 3-wood you have a chance to have really good looks at eagle, which we don't have a lot when we're playing out here.   
And a lot of wedges.   
So it was a ton of fun.  That finish was unbelievable, hole-in-one and then almost eagle on the last.  Yeah, just a really good round of golf.  Just had one three-putt, but, I mean, it happens.   
 Q.  Just the moment of the whole...  
MARINA ALEX: Yeah, I mean, just kind of surreal.  I finally hit a nice wedge.  Like I'd hit some wedges earlier in to the day and I didn't feel like they were super solid; just like a little mishit.   
That one was pure.  I think what happened is it hit just by the flag and bounced up on to the little bank behind and we watched it roll in.  It was pretty special.   
 Q.  Is it kind of like a monkey off your back getting a really good finish here?  
MARINA ALEX: Totally.  This tournament has been stressful for me for whatever reason, so to have a great finish is really exciting.  I just feel relieved, to be honest.   
 Q.  What's your biggest takeaway?  
MARINA ALEX: You know, I definitely feel like I've been putting together a couple Sunday rounds, like Phoenix and today were really, really good.  I handled my nerves well and I just went out there.  I knew I had to shoot a really low score today to have a chance.   
I mean, even what I had in my mind was 15, and that's not going to - I don't think - be close, to be honest.  Girls are playing great out there.   
I set a goal and almost got there.  I'm just really happy with how I played today.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT