HUGEL-JTBC LA OPEN
April 19, 2018
Marina Alex
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great round for you today; 4-under par.  Can you talk to me about what was happening out there on the course for you.  
MARINA ALEX: Yeah, you know, I putted really, really well today.  I mean, I made a lot of the putts that I shouldn't -- I wouldn't have expected to make, and I made two great saves on 17 and 18, one for bogey and one for birdie.   
So overall, you know, it was a really good day.  Kind of gotta away with some not-so-solid golf shots in the beginning, and I capitalized on some great putts.   
Just kind of let a shot on 17 get away from me.  Other than that, it's definitely getting better.   
 Q.  Anything that stuck out to you about your round?  Any big highlight?  
MARINA ALEX: Probably a putt on 2 that was like from the front half of the green and I made it.  I mean, it had to have been like 40 or 50 feet.  It was a really unexpected putt.  That was definitely a highlight.   
 Q.  You've been playing really well going into last year and then you have two Top 5 finishes already this year.  How confident are you in your game right now?  
MARINA ALEX: Building confidence.  There is still some stuff I'm trying to work out and get more comfortable with out on the golf course.  You know, some setup things and trying to not overthink what I'm doing technically.   
But, yeah, the confidence is building.  I'm excited for the next three days.   
 Q.  What is it like to see tour come to a place like Los Angeles and Wilshire Country Club?  There is a lot of history.  
MARINA ALEX: It's super cool.  L.A. is awesome.  I've never really been here.  The food is incredible.  It's a very unique and interesting city.  It's awesome to be here right in the heart of everything.   
I know there was a lot of great people playing in the pro-am yesterday.  It's good to have some extra exposure from the celebrities to kind of pump up our tour and pump up women's golf.   
So it's good.   
 Q.  I agree.  Good playing.  
MARINA ALEX: Thanks.   
 Q.  You've been in contention; been in the hunt several times now.  What have you learned from those experiences when you've gone back and dissected?  
MARINA ALEX: Yeah, just to not get too overwhelmed with the moment that's going on.  Sometimes I just will tend to get ahead of myself, and I just really need to keep that in check.   
I mean, even today I found myself a little bit towards the end just getting a little bit anxious when I probably -- you know, it's only Thursday of this.  There is so much golf left.  So just to chill a little bit, honestly, for lack of a better term.   
 Q.  Do you do that through breathing?  
MARINA ALEX: Yeah, breathing, self-talk.  I'm way more aware when I'm kind of getting a little bit anxious, wound up.  So I kind of like am just, Okay, this has happened so many times.  Time to step back and not get myself into that place, into that head space.   
So it's learning.  It's getting better.  I'm managing it a lot better than my first few years on tour, so I think that's helped contribute to a little bit more consistent finishes.   
 Q.  Seems like your whole game has gotten better.  
MARINA ALEX: For sure.   
 Q.  Is there one part it particular that you've worked more on?  
MARINA ALEX: Yeah, I'm continuing to work hard on my wedge game.  I just feel like out here we have some unbelievably good wedge players.  I play with girls and I am like, Wow, they're just spot on all the time.   
So I am trying to focus a little bit more effort into that and getting better distance control.  I think I will tend to not capitalize on certain holes, like par-5s, when I probably should have better chances for birdie.   
So I'm working on giving myself those opportunities.   
 Q.  Did you like this course the first time you played it?  
MARINA ALEX: Yeah, you know, I wasn't sure.  I played on Monday and it was like howling wind, like 35 miles an hour.   
It was funny, I was joking with my caddie, If we had to make a score, like shoot a score today, probably shoot like an 85.   
Once I got through the pro-am I really am enjoying it.  It's a fun golf course.  There are a lot of cool greens and a lot that they can do I think setup-wise to it difficult, even though the length is not -- it's not the longest course we're playing, but there's definitely challenges.   
So it's good.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT