CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 27, 2017
Marina Alex
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. It was kind of a tale of two nines out there a little bit.  Up-and-down on the front nine, and very steady on the back nine.  Obviously, birdieing to finish must have felt good as well.  How would you sum up your day?
MARINA ALEX: Actually I hit it, I thought, better on the first nine, at least I had a little bit closer birdie opportunities.  I had a three-putt on 7, and then I can't remember where I made another bogey.  Oh, the par-3.  I don't know if I judged the shot correctly off the tee.  Kind of left myself a tough up-and-down.  But I wasn't really upset with those bogies.  In terms of some of those pins were tricky, so bogeys were kind of expected.
I didn't hit it great on the back, but I had two really nice up-and-downs, and some really good lag putting, so it kind of just kept me going.  Just making a bunch of pars, and luckily they moved 18 forward so it was reachable.  I hit a great drive and a 5-wood up there.  I had a good look at eagle and it was great to finish with a birdie.
Q. How did the golf course set up today versus the other days?  Was it much more difficult?
MARINA ALEX: It was different.  The wind direction was a little different, so some of the holes that were playing downwind were now reversed into the wind and vice versa.  So some holes played harder where others played easier.  But I thought the overall set-up was great.  Even the par-3 13 was only 108 yards, but it was a great shot over the water, so still required you hit a really good shot in there.  I thought they set the course up perfect today.
Q. Now you're on track for the best finish of the year in what seems like your best finish maybe ever on the LPGA Tour?
MARINA ALEX: Yeah, I was trying really hard not to look at the leaderboard at all today.  So when I looked up and saw that's where I was at, I definitely think this is my best finish.  From day one to day four, definitely the most solid I've played this year in terms of controlling my emotions and just, you know, playing golf and not getting too far ahead of myself.  So I'm really pleased.
Q. How much does this do for your confidence and momentum moving forward?
MARINA ALEX: It's a ton of confidence.  Today was a really good confidence booster.  Regardless of the outcome, just to have some steady golf on the last day and just to really be in better control of myself and to manage everything that's going on around me, I think it's a great experience going into the future.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT