CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 25, 2017
Marina Alex
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So two good rounds.  Saw you had two birdies and just one bogey today?  
MARINA ALEX: Yeah.   
 Q.  You've got to feel good coming off the golf course where you put yourself?  
MARINA ALEX: Yeah, absolutely.  Definitely was a little tougher ball striking today.  Just didn't feel like I got into a good flow, but I managed the round really well and made an awesome putt on 15 to make birdie.  I had some good looks here and there.  I was just kind of piecing it all together, and I think I did the best I could today with the score I have, so I'm happy with that.   
 Q.  I was going to ask you about the birdie on 15, because that's the Hearts For Birdies hole.  Had to be a good feeling for you this week?  
MARINA ALEX: Yeah, if I could have one birdie there, that's great.  That was probably the best putt I hit all day, so I'm happy it happened to be on that hole for the charity.   
 Q.  How far a putt was it?  
MARINA ALEX: Oh, it had to be 30 feet.  Yeah, it was a great putt.   
 Q.  So you're well -- I think you're one stroke off the lead right now to the top of the leaderboard.  How do you go in from today until tomorrow?  
MARINA ALEX: Yeah, keep doing the same things I'm doing.  Try to work on my ball striking a little bit.  Just get a few better drives on the fairway and just a couple more closer iron shots and give myself better percentage putts.  I'm putting well, but I just want to give myself as many great chances as I can going through this weekend.   
 Q.  One last question.  I heard it called a Brooke-A-Palooza this week.  What is the atmosphere like?  
MARINA ALEX: The crowds are really, really great.  For a Thursday and a Friday, there are a lot of people here and it's awesome.  I believe this is Brooke's home course, so I'm sure this weekend is going to be exceptionally filled with people, lot of fun, lot of excitement and a lot of cheering.  So we're looking forward to it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT