CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 24, 2017
Marina Alex
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  5-under; how did you feel out there?  
MARINA ALEX: It was a really good day.  I got off to a great start.  We all did in the group, actually.  And then the conditions started to pick up a little bit.  The wind picked up.  It started to get tough definitely the second nine, so I kind of just held in there the best I could.  Made a really great up-and-down on -- I believe it was 7.  I drove it in the fairway bunker and had to lay up out and got up-and-down from 130 yards, it was really good.  Kind of kept me going.  Putted unbelievably well today.  I rolled it so good.  So I hope I can just carry that into the next couple days and just tidy up the ball-striking a little bit.   
 Q.  How are the greens out there?  
MARINA ALEX: The greens are amazing.  I mean, when we were practicing the last couple days, especially yesterday, now that things have dried out a bit after the rain, I thought that they were almost just as fast as what we played at the U.S. Open.  They are rolling unbelievably well.  Really quick.  The nice thing is they're still a bit soft, so the shots are holding into the greens, so it kind of makes for a good combo.  You can hit shots in there pretty tight, and then you have really nice pace to hold them.   
 Q.  You had a good stretch, four birdies in five holes at the end of the front nine.  Long ones or --  
MARINA ALEX: A few long ones.  A few medium-length putts.  I mean, they're just so pure right now that if you're getting a good line on them from any distance and you have the right speed, you can make putts from just about anywhere out here, which is great.   
 Q.  What's the plan for tonight?  
MARINA ALEX: I don't know.  Just going to rest a little bit.  Maybe go downtown and get lunch right now and just kill some time and then just get rested up for tomorrow.  It'll be nice to get to sleep in.  I was really early yesterday, too, so kind of excited for a sleep-in.   
 Q.  Have you been in this position before?  
MARINA ALEX: Yeah, I've definitely had rounds where I've been near the lead after the first day or the second or the third, so I mean, it's just good to be -- to have a little bit of that experience under my belt.  There's still so much golf left, so I'm not really -- just one day at a time here.   
 Q.  Four top 10s on the year, I believe.  How good is this for your momentum and maybe confidence moving over to the next couple --  
MARINA ALEX: Yeah, it's good.  I mean, I had a couple weeks off, so it's always odd when you take two weeks off.  It's not that it kills momentum, but you just have to kind of get restarted again.  But I guess the break was really helpful.  I feel refreshed mentally, which is nice.  Ready to go into the last big stretch here the next few weeks and then we head off to Asia, so that's still quite a lot of travel and golf left, so I'm just trying to pace myself.   
 Q.  Did you find that the pace of play slowed down a little as the day went on?  
MARINA ALEX: It definitely did.  I mean, it was pretty slow all day from basically the second hole onward, but it really slowed down on our back nine, which was the front nine.  I mean, it was kind of hard to get momentum, I think, for any of us because we would sit on the tee box and wait sometimes three and four minutes.  It's just hard to get a good group, and if you have a good group, it really kind of gets disrupted, so it's tough.  You have pretty challenging conditions right now.  Every shot was kind of just difficult as we approached it, and it's hard to get into a flow when you're stopping and starting and stopping and starting.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT