MANULIFE LPGA CLASSIC
September 2, 2016
Marina Alex
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Six birdies and an eagle today and 64.  And with two bogeys as well, mind you, but you've gotta be extremely pleased.  
MARINA ALEX: Yeah.  Super happy.  Just kind of everything fell together, ball striking, putting.  I actually left a couple of putts out there, but I mean I'm not going to complain about the score that I shot.   
 Q.  Actually, looking at your statistics, you didn't hit that many greens or fairways, but your putting must have been what carried you.  
MARINA ALEX: Maybe not.  I don't know for sure.  The pins were a little tougher today, I thought, than yesterday.  So there were maybe a couple of times where I was close to the edge of the green, but just not really quite on it.  But felt like I struck the ball okay.  If the greens-in-reg stat is not that high, it's not the end of the world.   
 Q.  Anything like this in your career before, 65?  
MARINA ALEX: No.  This I think is the lowest I've shot out on the LPGA.  I don't know about prior.  Maybe.  But definitely the best round I've played in a long time.   
 Q.  What is it about the course that suits your eye?  
MARINA ALEX: I'm just trying to -- it actually is a pretty wide-open course, which is sometimes for me a little challenging because it's hard to pick out targets.  But I'm trying really hard to focus, be as narrow as possible off the tee and into the green and just be very specific with what I'm trying to do.   
 Q.  How were the conditions out there today?  The wind was a big factor yesterday.  Did it die down a little bit?  
MARINA ALEX: A little bit.  I think we were fortunate today.  It wasn't as windy as it was yesterday afternoon, but I mean I don't know what the afternoon is going to come -- what kind of conditions we're going to have, but right now it's totally scorable.   
 Q.  Clubhouse leader right now.  
MARINA ALEX: Yeah.   
 Q.  Look at that smile.  That's good.  What's the focus now?  Is it get ready for tomorrow?  You're in a good spot.  
MARINA ALEX: Yeah.  Just kind of take it easy and practice a little bit and try not to overdo it.   
 Q.  You really made a statement with that last hole shooting an eagle.  Can you take us through what was going through your head as you approached?  
MARINA ALEX: No.  I just set up.  It was a good -- didn't hit the best drive, but I had a good angle and a good number going into the green.  I hit a 5-wood.  And just really set up for a good shot because the number was pretty perfect.  And then I had a ton of those putts all day, so it was just another putt.   
 Q.  How good does it feel to be ending on an eagle?  
MARINA ALEX: Yeah.  It's awesome.  And I think there's a donation for eagle, too.  So that's good, too.   
 Q.  Going into the weekend, we don't know what's going to happen in the afternoon, mind you, but you could be in the final group.  Have you been in the final group?  
MARINA ALEX: I've been close.  At that point whether you're the last group, second-to-last, third-to-last, it's all kind of the same.  I have a little bit of experience there, so it'll be good.   
 Q.  What's the strategy for tomorrow?  
MARINA ALEX: Same thing.  Pick my targets, stay focused and make as many putts as I can.   
 Q.  Is it fun when you play like that well?  
MARINA ALEX: I know.  And Mina played awesome, too.  And we were kind of like just feeding off each other.  I think we were like 14-under total for the two of us.  I mean we had a great time.  So it was really good to have someone else also playing well and just kind of push each other.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT