U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 10, 2015
Marina Alex
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  How would you compare your round today from yesterday?  MARINA ALEX: Oh, totally different.  Yesterday, tee to green I was really, really solid.  Today off the tee I struggled in certain parts.  I just didn't really find a good rhythm, but I managed to just fight through that.  I made a lot of good pars. I had a small hiccup on 13, made a double, but I knew there was a couple of holes coming in there where I could make birdies, 14 and 16, definitely, which I did.  I was really happy that I was able to kind of fight back and take advantage. I made an unbelievable par on 18 after driving it into the greenside bunker on the right.  My scrambling was good today.   Q.  How were you able to mentally hold it together?  MARINA ALEX: Yeah, I mean it's just I managed to really hold it together through nine holes, and that kind of really calmed me down.  I minimized my damage and only made one bogey and eight pars.  That eased me up and I did start hitting it a little bit better. 13, I just hit a poor drive and left myself in a tough spot and made a double.  It happens. But I knew that those holes coming down the stretch were going to be able to help me bounce back, and they did.   Q.  Conditions today, were they similar to yesterday?  MARINA ALEX: I mean, I didn't think so.  There was a little bit more breeze and I think they gave us a few more challenging hole locations, so I thought it played overall a little bit tougher.  If you are ball-striking well, you can manage it.  But if you're not, it's more difficult.   Q.  Were the greens a little slower today because of the rain?  Everybody seemed to be leaving it short?  MARINA ALEX: I guess.  It's also just the afternoon, there's a lot of foot traffic out there.  They grow during the day, and I thought they were a tad bit slower than when I played yesterday morning.  But I kind of expected that would be the case.  It's a usual Friday afternoon kind of situation.   Q.  How do you feel about your placement going into the weekend?  MARINA ALEX: It's great.  I'm going to go with it, embrace it and see what the weekend, where it takes me.   Q.  A little different mindset playing in the Open now six years after your last one?  MARINA ALEX: I was a kid when I played the last time.  I was just excited to be there.  The game that I had then and now is not really the same.  I'm much more prepared now than I was then.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT