CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 21, 2019
Marina Alex
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Nice bogey-free 4-under par 68 today. What was going right?  
MARINA ALEX: Just a little bit of everything. Got off to a little bit of a kind of maybe shaky-nervous start, but made a really great par on 2.   
Had some awkward distances on, was it 3 and 4, but hit some nice irons and good lie putts to just kind of keep me at level par.   
Made a nice up and down out of the greenside bunker on 6 to get a birdie, and then that kind of just got the ball rolling. Just patient and waiting for some good things to happen.   
Been nice to have a week off. Practiced and felt like my game was a little bit better coming into this week. Like middle of that Asia stretch I was losing it a bit, so good to get things back.   
 Q.  You've played here every year since 2016 with a best finish at this event T5 last year. Got to be getting a little more comfortable being in Naples.  
MARINA ALEX: Yeah. This is a pretty tough golf course, and the first few years just kind of figuring out where to leave it in certain parts of the greens because they're slick, they have a lot of slope, you know, and sometimes being past the pin isn't great and sometimes being short of certain hole locations isn't necessarily great either.   
So it's just a lot of course knowledge over the years. Been working a lot on trying to hit the ball a little further, and I definitely think it benefits a longer hitter to just get your drives out there and try and get irons in your hands into the greens and not woods and hybrids on those like first few hole, because they can be really difficult.   
 Q.  You said a little nervy start. Is that because this event means so much more than maybe a regular event now?  
MARINA ALEX: Yeah. I mean, I think there's always been a lot on the line here the past few years. Terry and CME Group makes this such a premier event. So, yes, yes, the 1.5 is a huge deal, but even before that the first place check was quite a big check, pretty on par with the majors.   
So I think everyone comes into this week a little bit edgy. You feel like you're playing for a lot more money. It's good to test the nerves.   
 Q.  How did you like that idea, the change in the format that now everyone has a shot at the jackpot?  
MARINA ALEX: It's really cool. I think for people who have not been, let's say in the top 10 of the CME in years past, it really gives them an opportunity to come out here a huge purpose to try and win the whole thing.   
I can understand how players at the top might feel, man, I've worked so hard this whole year and it resets once you're here. But for the viewership, I definitely think it gives great entertainment. Every player has a chance and you're looking at everyone who is playing well and you're not really concerned with who is mathematically in the Top 5 or 6 or whatever those scenarios may be to win.   
So I think for everyone watching, it makes it simpler and more exciting.   
 Q.  You were back with Morgan. You guys were a terrific team.  
MARINA ALEX: Yeah.   
 Q.  What was it like to be back with her?  
MARINA ALEX: Yeah, it's a lot of fun. Morgan is great to play with, a great competitor, super professional.   
So just go out and you know you're going to have a good day and kind of just hopefully feed off each other. She grinded. She had -- I don't know if she finished at level, but she made a lot of great up and downs to keep herself in it going into the next three days.   
 Q.  I understand you were able to attend the leadership conference earlier this week.  
MARINA ALEX: Yes.   
 Q.  Were you able to attend that(indiscernible.)  
MARINA ALEX: No, I was not. I don't know if any of the players attended that. I was able to do to the dinner on Tuesday night with Keith Urban and Nicole Kidman. Keith was fantastic; so was Nicole. They had some really wonderful things to say, and he put on a nice show. It was a ton of fun.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT