MONTANA STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 31, 2019
Brayden Konkol
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Texas Tech - 45, Montana State - 10
Q. Talk about that tempo that they ran, especially early and how you guys worked to kind of keep pace and adjust to that.
BRAYDEN KONKOL: Yeah, I think the tempo kind of killed us. I thought at first we were playing pretty solid defensively, but then like as the game went on you could tell we were getting worn out, so they definitely wore us down with their tempo.
Q. What did you think of their passing game because it's not really like they took shots deep that much, it was just kind of short stuff. What did you think allowed them to succeed with that kind of offense?
BRAYDEN KONKOL: I think we just got to be better at tackling, we had a lot of missed tackles that led to extra yards and then also there was some times where we kind of bit on some of the RPO run fakes and they snuck in behind us, so we just got to get better at that.
Q. Do you feel like the heat -- I saw guys going down with cramps -- do you think that that played a factor in this one?
BRAYDEN KONKOL: I mean nothing major, I mean it was definitely hot out there, something we're not used to but it wasn't like game changing.
Q. Do you feel like the offense didn't turn the ball over, you didn't have too many penalties. Do you feel like, all things considered, it was a fairly mistake-free game or I guess not a lot of big stuff like that happening?
BRAYDEN KONKOL: Yeah, no, I think we definitely made a lot of mistakes and we can get better from it and we will get better from it.
Q. How do you use this as a learning experience?
BRAYDEN KONKOL: Yeah, the biggest jump is from week one to week two, so we just got to watch the film. I mean there's a lot of little small things that we can get better at if we correct it on the film.
Q. How did you think your defensive line hung in there against that O line?
BRAYDEN KONKOL: I thought they did pretty good, we got to watch the film to see, but I think, I thought they did pretty good, we had a sack and whatnot, so.
Q. You had a lot of young guys rotating in there too, what did you think of those guys getting some playing time?
BRAYDEN KONKOL: Yeah, I thought they, for it being their first major game, first game, against a Big-12 team I thought they played pretty well. But we'll see it on the film, I guess.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT