AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: INDIANS v YANKEES
October 11, 1998
Chili Davis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Last year, you spent the year in Kansas City, which is almost like baseball
purgatory. Could you talk about the differences about being on this stage as opposed to
going through what you went through last year?
 
 CHILI DAVIS: I don't think Kansas City was all that bad. I had a good time there. That
ball club is working its way to becoming a good ball club. They've got a lot of good young
players. I don't have very long to play in this game and I didn't really want to leave
there, but I had to. I had to do something for myself before I leave this ball -- this
game of baseball. So I decided that I was going to give myself a shot to be on a team
that's going to be a contender and has a chance to win the World Series. 
 
Q. In this tense time of year, can you talk about what it does to the team to have a
loose cannon like Wells around?
 
 CHILI DAVIS: It bugs you when you don't pitch. The days that he pitches, I think this
ball club feels very comfortable with him going out there because we know the kind of
competitor he is and he's going to give you all he's got out there as long as he can. The
days that he doesn't pitch, keep him in the clubhouse. He really bugs you, he's a fun guy
to be around. He doesn't care about much. He just goes out, loves baseball and goes out
and plays baseball. 
 
Q. Did he say anything about being upset when he came in from warming up in the bullpen
about what those fans were saying?
 
 CHILI DAVIS: I didn't really see much after he came in. We shook his hand and just kind
of said, let's go and I don't know where he went, so I don't know what happened out there. 
 
Q. You're not playing, the Yankees are winning 6 games out of 7, they have three left
fielders and four DHs. Did you envision they could find room for you; did you figure that
because?
 
 CHILI DAVIS: George is paying me, so they're finding somewhere for me. There's one of
those left fielder that I wish was here right now and I just wish him the best and this is
all fine and we've got something to do here, but he's got a different battle to fight
right now and he's pretty much on my mind and when you look back at the fact that I didn't
play most of the year, he was a big part of this ball club, picked it up for me, got some
good clutch hits, Chad Curtis played well, Rock played well. What was there to be
disappointed about, I knew if I worked hard I could be back and get a shot to play in some
games and really and truly the whole objective that we had in Spring Training was to come
out and win, and whether or not I'm in the lineup a certain day doesn't really matter as
long as you win ball games. 
 
Q. You've been around a long time, been a DH for a long time. How do you keep busy
during the game, stay ready because I know you've got every other inning -- can you
explain what you did?
 
 CHILI DAVIS: Lots of coffee. Lots of coffee. Just most of the time you try to stay in
the ball game, watch pitchers pitch and see what patterns they're doing, what pitches they
have working. And other times, I basically just go down wherever I can get a chance to
swing the bat and try to stay loose physically that way. But you try to stay in the ball
game more mentally than anything. You know, after your first batter, your first two
at-bats, you're pretty much loose, physically, and now you start thinking game plans. You
start thinking game plans from the first at-bat. If it works you stay with it. If you need
to regroup, you regroup the second at-bat and then you just keep going. I think the big
thing for DH is not to allow each at-bat to affect the next. 
 
Q. In the first inning the first three guys got hard hits against David Wells. In the
old days, and you faced him many times, how do you think he would have reacted in that
situation and what can you say about what he did today?
 
 CHILI DAVIS: Boomer -- I've watched him pitch all year and I've faced him in the past.
Boomer was basically a fastball, curve ball pitcher in the past. He just came right at
you, 2-0, here comes a fastball, hit it if you can, he's still that way somewhat, but he's
more of a pitcher now, mixed his pitches up and off speed pitches behind the count. Throws
you a fastball and he thinks you're not really expecting a fastball, not geared for it. I
don't know what he would have done in the old days, but I'm glad he settled down today,
settled down and started to pitch the game the way we expected him to. 
 
Q. Can you talk about just how gratifying it is with this offense so sluggish and you
coming through the last two days games and make it happen?
 
 CHILI DAVIS: They carried me all year, it's about time I did something. I don't think
this offense is sluggish, I think this is pretty much the time of year where you're facing
ball clubs with very good pitching. We have very good pitching, the Indians have very good
pitching. You don't get to this position, you don't get to the ALCS if you don't have good
pitching. You might get lucky and do it, but you're not going to last long. Good pitching
stops good hitting. The guys are trying and making good pitches on us. I think today we
made Chad Ogea work a little harder than we had the last couple of days with the other
guys we faced. When we did so, he put himself in a bind and we came off with some runs off
of him. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT