ROSE BOWL GAME: IOWA VS STANFORD
December 29, 2015
Drew Ott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What's it been like for you?  
DREW OTT: It's been a good experience.  Been a lot of fun down here.  They have a lot of nice activities for us to go to.  It's been a good experience.   
 Q.  How is the rehab coming?  
DREW OTT: Rehab is coming good.  It's going along.  I think I'm a little ahead of schedule, so can't complain.   
 Q.  Not going to surprise people, all of a sudden show up and play in the Rose Bowl?  
DREW OTT: No, unfortunately.   
 Q.  What kind of role have you taken?  Have you had to help the younger guys, Matt Nelson?  
DREW OTT: Yeah, I just try to give them my advice and what helped me when I was playing, and try to pass that to them and help them get going.   
 Q.  What makes you want to come back?  You could rehab and go to the NFL, but you're asking for another year to come back?  
DREW OTT: I think it would just give me more experience and I think it would help me out in the long run and just be nice to get a senior year here.   
 Q.  Is it a chance to play for this team?  Do you like it that much?  Do you enjoy playing for the Hawkeyes that much?  
DREW OTT: Be another chance, I could start working on my masters.  That would help me in longevity of things, I mean, that would be nice to get a head start on that, and then it would be nice to play with these guys for another year.   
 Q.  How crushing was it, when the injury first happened, how crushing was it knowing that you weren't going to finish the year out?  
DREW OTT: It was a pretty tough couple weeks there, but get over it, move on and start rehabbing.   
 Q.  Your sense of the team and how things have gone.  
DREW OTT: It's going good.  I think everyone has a positive outlook and we are all working hard and getting after it in practice.   
 Q.  When you're on the sidelines, how much are you helping people on the sidelines?  
DREW OTT: I'm telling them what I'm seeing and what moves I think work and trying to coach them up.   
 Q.  Parker Hesse's development, can you talk a little about what you've seen from the sidelines?  
DREW OTT: He's just a lot more comfortable out there, getting into a groove and he's doing a good job for us.   
 Q.  Matt Nelson has come a long ways in a short period of time.  
DREW OTT: He's trying to figure it out quickly.  Things are happening a little slower for him.  He's doing a good job, too.   
 Q.  How much do you wish you were out there?  
DREW OTT: It would be great if I was out there.  So I mean, I wish I was.   
 Q.  I'm running Snapchat and wondering if you want to say something to all the Rose Bowl fans on our Snapchat feed.  
DREW OTT: Things are coming well down here in California, beautiful weather and hopefully enjoy this trip.  Go Hawks.   
 Q.  How does it feel to be in this stage in this moment and also not be able to play?  
DREW OTT: I mean, it feels good, with all the nice events and stuff and getting all this good food.  It's been a good experience.   
 Q.  Is it tough to be stuck on the sidelines?  
DREW OTT: I mean, I'm kind of over it now.  I'm more focused on just rehabbing and helping the younger guys get along.   
 Q.  What are you seeing, as a coach at this point, you look at the film, and you see obviously everything starts in practice.  
DREW OTT: Yeah, things are coming together.  I think we've got a good team and I think the younger guys are starting to -- every practice they get is an opportunity for them to get a little better.   
 Q.  What have you seen from the way Stanford uses the running backs, using McCaffrey a lot.  What have you observed?  
DREW OTT: They do a good job of bringing in different formations, getting involved different ways.  They have a wildcat formation that they use.  They are very shifty in how they use it and it works out well for them.   
 Q.  What have you seen from Riley as a short yardage back, his ability to get one or two yards.  
DREW OTT: He's a powerful, strong back.   
 Q.  Are you back or are you playing?  
DREW OTT: No, I'm not back.   
 Q.  You had a knee or something like that?  
DREW OTT: Tore my ACL.   
 Q.  How many more years you got?  You got next year?  
DREW OTT: My last year.   
 Q.  You're out of it.  How big a disappointment was that, not being able to play in this Rose Bowl?  
DREW OTT: I mean, I haven't played for a couple games now, so I'm used to it.  I learned to deal with it.  I'm just trying to help the younger guys out.   
 Q.  Like a coach?  
DREW OTT: Yeah, kind of like a coach.   
 Q.  So you're looking forward to the draft, in other words, right?  
DREW OTT: I'm feeling right now, I'm trying to get like a medical red-shirt.   
 Q.  What do you think your chances would be?  How many games did you windup playing?  You played in five or six?  
DREW OTT: I played in five.   
 Q.  That's enough, isn't it?  
DREW OTT: I had surgery on this, so should have been out like the second game.   
 Q.  When was that --  
DREW OTT: I dislocated, tore a bunch of ligaments in it second game of the year.  I kept just trying to play on it.   
 Q.  Wow, what a rough year.  
DREW OTT: Yeah, it's been a rough year for injuries for me.   
 Q.  Brian Ferentz, one of the assistant coaches, talked about the program coming out of last season, he said the program was a little broken.  Did you sense that, and what needed to be fixed in your estimation?  
DREW OTT: I think we just needed to get back on track, refocus and start believing more in Coach Ferentz's system and working a little harder.   
 Q.  Talking about toughness and a mind-set; what had to change there?  
DREW OTT: I would just say, our ability to want to come to work every day and going into practice and trying to get better.  Got a little relaxed last year.   
 Q.  Tell me more about last year.  How did that manifest on the field week-after-week?  
DREW OTT: I think it hurt our ability to finish.  We weren't tough enough to finish games and that cost us games last year.   
 Q.  How is that different this year?  
DREW OTT: We're finishing and people have a tougher mentality this year and get things done.   
 Q.  Does that start with conditioning, weight room, stuff like that?  
DREW OTT: Yeah, people getting on people, like teammates getting after each other and not letting them quit and stuff like that.   
 Q.  Stanford talks a lot about their first game this year being a wake-up call when they lost to Northwestern.  It almost sounds like maybe last year's Bowl game for you guys was similar?  
DREW OTT: Yeah, we were into it pretty good last year, and took that off-season as motivation and tried to bounce back this year.   
 Q.  I'm assuming you're not too upset this is the last Media Day of your year.  
DREW OTT: No, I'm okay with it.   
 Q.  If you're okay, though, with not having -- it's a little wild here today.  
DREW OTT: Yeah, there's a lot going on today.  I'm pretty relaxed over here in my corner while everyone's talking.  Yeah, I feel pretty good.   
 Q.  Going to the booth with all the hats and stuff, are you guys doing that?  
DREW OTT: No.   
 Q.  Talk about the way your defense has played this season.  
DREW OTT: They have been really good, really good at finishing tough games and just staying sharp throughout the entire season.   
 Q.  Can you talk about the challenge that the Stanford offense presents to you guys?  
DREW OTT: I mean, they are a big, tough, physical line and going to be tough to try to control the line of scrimmage and they have very talented backs.   
 Q.  How have you guys been able to bounce back from that tough loss, and I know you guys are undefeated, had a chance to go to be in the playoffs.  How have you been able to bounce back?  
DREW OTT: We just use Coach's 24-hour rule and flush that game and onto the next and now we are preparing for Stanford.   
 Q.  As one of the leaders, top guys, how do you kind of rally the rest of the team, talk to them to get them focused on the next game?  
DREW OTT: Yeah, I mean, we try to stay focused.  Our season isn't over and just got to stay focused and keep working hard.   
 Q.  With the uncertainty regarding the waiver for the extra year, how are you treating the next few weeks and months, knowing that you might have to be preparing for the draft instead of preparing for next season?  
DREW OTT: These few months I'll do them the same no matter what, just rehab my knee and my arm and try to get back.   
 Q.  Where are you at health-wise?  
DREW OTT: I think I'm going to be running here pretty soon, in a couple weeks, and hopefully that comes around and I can start rehabbing my arm.   
 Q.  What's it been like watching the defense develop without you?  You obviously are such a key component of this team coming into the year.  What's it been like watching their progress, without you, unfortunately?  
DREW OTT: It's been good.  A lot of people have stepped up this year.  Matt Nelson has done a good job of taking my spot.  I mean, they have really come along as players and really done a good job with the defense.   
 Q.  What's your perspective on Stanford, the way they run?  
DREW OTT: They have a big offensive line and they have got talented backs.  We are going to come at you and try to smash you down your throat, so should be a good game.   
 Q.  Last time here, looks like you're going with the mustache now?  Kind of changing your look up this year?  
DREW OTT: It's been a little evolution this whole trip.  I had handle bars for a little bit and didn't really like those, went with the mustache, who knows.  I'll probably have it clean-shaven for the game.   
 Q.  I heard you wanted more prime rib and couldn't get it the other night?  
DREW OTT: I was a little hungry.  Thought it was supposed to be a challenge or something like that, so I was starving myself for something like that and didn't pull through.   
 Q.  What's this week been like for you, knowing this event, for this season -- we don't know about next season, just sort of not being able to play.  
DREW OTT: This week is a good experience.  I'm kind of over the whole not playing thing.  It's been six weeks ago or something like that.  So I mean, I had a lot of time to work that out and just really enjoying the experience and all the great Bowl trips.   
 Q.  Have you heard anything on the red-shirt?  
DREW OTT: If it comes down to that.   
 Q.  Even if you were hurt, you could turn pro.  Was that just because you wanted to be back with these guys again?  Is that the main thing?  
DREW OTT: I mean, I can do more schooling, I can start my master's program, that would be nice.  Come back and play for another year -- finish the senior season.   
 Q.  What's your major?  
DREW OTT: Health and human physiology.   
 Q.  How close are you to graduating?  
DREW OTT: I'll graduate in the spring.   
 Q.  How has this week been for you?  
DREW OTT: It's been a good experience overall.  A lot of good events for us to attend and nice weather here in California so you can't complain about that.   
I think for us to win on Friday, we are just going to have to do our best to control the line of scrimmage and slowdown for our running attack.   
 Q.  Is it a surprise that you all are here?  
DREW OTT: No, I mean, I think we've worked hard.  This has been our goal all along and be the best Iowa team we can every time we come out on the field and it's worked out for us.   
 Q.  The process of getting the medical waiver, have you made any momentum towards that?  
DREW OTT: Right now they are making the decision on it.   
 Q.  Is that something you're pretty hopeful that it's going to turn out the right way for you?  
DREW OTT: I don't really know how it all works.  We'll just have to see and wait.   
 Q.  As far as the recovery process right now, where are you at now in your recovery?  
DREW OTT: Started strengthening my arm a couple days ago.  About to get running here in a couple weeks, so I'm kind of right in there.   
 Q.  Do you feel like you're on pace right now?  
DREW OTT: Yeah, I feel like I'm ahead of schedule.  I feel like things are going well for me.  I haven't had any real big setbacks or anything like that.   
 Q.  Are you setting a date where you want to be ready by?  
DREW OTT: I haven't really set a date yet.  I've got little dates set here and there.   
 Q.  Are you kind of preparing -- there's a lot of uncertainty there with the medical hardship that you're trying to get.  Do you prepare like you're going to come back to college, or are you going to prepare like you're going to make the next step in the NFL?  
DREW OTT: I think they are both similar.  I'm preparing to play football, and I'm just trying to do my best to rehab both body parts to get ready to go.   
 Q.  But you'd like to come back to college first?  
DREW OTT: Yeah, that would be nice.   
 Q.  As far as this game goes, what have you seen from your teammates so far that make you confident they are going to come out on the winning side?  
DREW OTT: People just working hard, going to practice every day and figuring out the scheme.   
 Q.  How hard is this team to figure out with all the formations and shifts and things they do?  
DREW OTT: It looks pretty simple but I mean, they move everyone around.  They have got unbalanced formations like that, so it's something you've definitely got to adjust to.  They do a good job of hiding that and getting the running backs in different positions.   
 Q.  Talking to a bunch of players on your team, can't help but see the chip on the shoulder with everybody:  Okay, we haven't really been that respected around the country; is that accurate and how would you describe that?  
DREW OTT: I think everyone just try to go out and play their best football.  We are all just trying to prove that we play good football and hopefully get on a third bet (ph).   
 Q.  Is that the company line or when you guys win, do you go back in the locker room and say --  
DREW OTT: I mean, we celebrate in the locker and we move on to the next week.   
 Q.  Have you been able to take on a little bit more of a leadership role instead of sitting out?  Have you worked with any of the younger guys or anything like that?  What have you gained from sitting out?  
DREW OTT: I mean, yeah, I get to see the game from a different perspective and get an opportunity for other people to play.  If they are playing, I can help coach them and give them insight to what I can do if I was out there at that moment and hope that they can use that knowledge.   
 Q.  Being in a situation like that, you haven't been on a stage like this in a while.  Have you kind of helped some of these younger guys manage some of their emotions or anything like that?  
DREW OTT: Yeah, hopefully we don't get too worked up.  I think everyone is kind of level-headed and ready to go.   
 Q.  What is the biggest thing that you've gained from being in this position in a different perspective?  
DREW OTT: You have to know what you have and you have to take full advantage of it while you can.  Just see the game from a different view and try to help people out.   
 Q.  When you step out on the field, what will your emotions be like knowing that this is a big game?  
DREW OTT: I'm going to be excited and I'm going to be excited for things to get rolling and for us to play some football.   
 Q.  How is the focus of this team, how do you sense your focus level at this point in time and translating into play come January 1?  
DREW OTT: I think everyone has been focused and ready to go.  We've been watching film and practicing hard the last couple weeks here.   
 Q.  What has been the most fun that you've had thus far in the trip?  
DREW OTT: I went to like "Ripley's Believe It or Not."  That was a pretty fun night, just to see that stuff and the star strip, it was nice seeing all those actor's names.   
 Q.  Any one particular item that really caught your attention, or is it the overall experience?  
DREW OTT: Just the overall experience.   
 Q.  How much do you --  
DREW OTT: Coming off two prime ribs.   
 Q.  How much weight did you gain after that?  
DREW OTT: I didn't gain any weight at all.  I was kind of starving myself and then I figured out we had a limit once we got there, so I was a little disappointed.   
 Q.  That's quite a bit, three --  
DREW OTT: Two.   
 Q.  Along the way, what has been the highlight for you?  
DREW OTT: I would just say going undefeated in the regular season, that was a big highlight for us, never done that before.  It's just been a good ride.   
 Q.  What's your motivation and inspiration, as a person and as a player?  
DREW OTT: Just go out there and do my best and keep working hard.   
 Q.  Who gives you the most encouragement as far as in your group of family, friends?  
DREW OTT: Yeah, family, friends.  At some point, kind of got to be a little self-motivated.  Got to come from yourself and just say, I've got great support staff with my friends and family and players and coaches around me.   
 Q.  What makes you be as great as you are?  
DREW OTT: Just try to come to work every day and try to do my best.   
 Q.  In terms of being hurt, what's it like to be able to come with your team to the Rose Bowl, playing in one of the biggest stages of college football?  
DREW OTT: I'm excited to see the atmosphere.  I've heard a lot about it but I haven't witnessed it yet.   
 Q.  Have you been out to California before?  
DREW OTT: No, this is my first time to California believe it or not.   
 Q.  What do you think about it?  
DREW OTT: It's nice.  I mean, I can't complain about the weather.  It's nice and cool and sunny every day.   
 Q.  In terms of your team going to the Rose Bowl, is it bittersweet if you don't get a chance to play in it, even though you do get to be a part of the experience?  
DREW OTT: Yeah, I'd like to play obviously, that's what I came here to do, but just enjoy the Bowl trip and watch people grow as players and step up.  That would be nice, too.   
 Q.  What's your role been like on the team since your injury?  Are you still involved in the team and being a vocal leader even though you're doing your rehab?  
DREW OTT: I think just helping the younger guys out and coaching them up, telling what I would do in certain situations and coach them up, kind of get them ready to go.   
 Q.  How is the rehab going, by the way?  ACL rehab is no fun.  
DREW OTT: Yeah, it's not too bad.  It's been going pretty good.  I'm walking.  A big moment and be able to get on my feet and off the crutches.   
 Q.  What was the most frustrating thing -- you had knee and elbow surgery?  
DREW OTT: I had elbow surgery, too, yeah.  That wasn't too bad.  Put it in a sling and let it heal.  Don't have to walk on your hands.   
 Q.  In terms of your knee surgery, anything that stood out as very frustrating about that experience?  
DREW OTT: Nothing too bad.  I think it's gone pretty smoothly for me, so I don't have any complaints on it.   
 Q.  How did your role change and what did you decide that you needed to do for this team?  
DREW OTT: I just needed to be a good leader and help the younger guys along that were going to help my spot and get them ready to go for the game so they could perform at a high level.   
 Q.  What's it like watching this team here in the Rose Bowl this year?  
DREW OTT: It's been good.  I think everyone's done a good job in staying focused and keeping their eye on the prize.   
 Q.  How has this week gone for you?  
DREW OTT: It's been a good week.  I can't say I've had a bad time.  I've had good weather and a lot of good events to go to and a lot to do in California.   
 Q.  All this media attention, it's more than this team really seen.  What do you think about that?  
DREW OTT: I was at Big Ten media days.  That was a lot of media there.  But for everyone else, I think they are just kind of taking it all in.   
 Q.  How much do you cherish the role helping the young defensive ends?  
DREW OTT: Given me time to bond with them and kind of get to know them and show them what I was thinking out there and hopefully help them translate that to another place.   
 Q.  Coach Morgan said he would strategically position you in the meeting room in between some of those young guys that maybe help build their confidence.  How much have you seen Parker's confidence grow since he had to replace you this season?  
DREW OTT: I mean, basically he's been confident all year.  I think he just got more comfortable out on the field.  Mentally, he's ready to go all the time, I think -- just let it all soak in and adjust to the game speed.   
 Q.  Do you see them as comparable with teams you face on a weekly basis?  
DREW OTT: Pretty similar.  They like to run power and things like that.  We can relate to it coming from Iowa.  We go against our offense every day and they are pretty similar offenses.   
 Q.  Christian McCaffrey has done some pretty remarkable things.  What do you see that makes him so dynamic?  
DREW OTT: I mean, he's shifty.  He knows how to hit holes, what his lines are.  He's got a good line in front of him and they kind of punch the hole open for him and just space enough to hit it.   
 Q.  Do you see any similarities to the Stanford line?  
DREW OTT: They are a big, powerful linemen.  I mean, they are really good; their technique is good, and everything about them.   
 Q.  With this being the first opportunity for Kirk Ferentz to win a Rose Bowl, how special would it be to play a role in that win?  
DREW OTT: That would be huge for us.  It would be good for Coach.  We all want that for him and he deserves it.   
 Q.  What about Coach Ferentz and his staff, they have a reputation for being very tight-knit.  
DREW OTT: I can't really speak for what it's like in other programs, but I know at Iowa, I can go talk to him whatever I want.  I know his door is always open for us.  Maybe that's a little unique to us but pretty close with our coach I think.   
 Q.  In terms of defining moments, when did you know that you had a special team?  
DREW OTT: I would say just coming into fall camp, I think we were all kind of a tight-knight group and we were all ready to go, and after that first game, I think we all kind of knew that we were going to try to accomplish something special.   
 Q.  Was there anything in particular about the camp this year had a was different than ones you've been a part of in the past, that made you feel that way?  
DREW OTT: I mean, defensively, I think we were just clicking together and I think we came into camp ready to go and had everyone lined up.   
 Q.  I was going to talk to you about the academic side in your experience at the University of Iowa.  Have you gotten your degree yet?  
DREW OTT: I graduated in the spring.   
 Q.  What was the major?  
DREW OTT: Health and human physiology.   
 Q.  What was it academically about the University of Iowa that was something that you wanted to come and get your education here?  
DREW OTT: They had a health degree and I've always been interested in health.  They have the hospital, too, in case I wanted to go into nursing or something like that or physical therapy.  I didn't really know what I wanted to do with my career but I knew that they had good medical programs here.   
 Q.  I guess what was it about, and now getting a firsthand look at physical therapy, but how would you describe the education you received?  
DREW OTT: It's been excellent.  Classrooms are real friendly.  I've never had a teacher that I couldn't go into her office hours and talk about a class if I didn't understand something.  It's been warming and welcoming.   
 Q.  How do you stop the run on them?  
DREW OTT: I think we have just got to do good on the line of scrimmage, not allowing his great offensive line to create such good holes for him.   
 Q.  McCaffrey, he's very good, he can catch, he can run.  You guys going to key on him?  
DREW OTT: I mean, I think we are just going to try to control the line of scrimmage and do our best that we can to slow him down a little bit.   
 Q.  And how is the team this week?  Excited?  How are you today?  
DREW OTT: Yeah, we are excited.  We really like being here in California instead of out in the snow in Iowa, so we can't complain.   
 Q.  What's this experience been like for you and the past couple weeks, months even, knowing that you can't play, but still a play role?  
DREW OTT: It's been a good experience me.  I'm just trying to help the younger guys get ready to go for this game.  Me, I'm just exploring Hollywood and things like that.   
 Q.  How is the red-shirt thing going?  No news on that yet?  
DREW OTT: No news on that.  I sent in my appeal and I think they are making a ruling on it sometime soon.   
 Q.  What's the feeling like that you might have another chance to play?  
DREW OTT: A little weird not knowing what's going to happen but I'm excited for whatever happens next.   
 Q.  If red-shirting isn't an option, have you thought about things that you might do in the future?  
DREW OTT: Yeah, hopefully I can try to make it professionally, but if not, I'll probably just hang out for awhile and I don't know what I'll do after.   
 Q.  How is the knee and how is the elbow?  Are you feeling good?  
DREW OTT: I've just been rehabbing.  Things are coming good.  Hopefully I'll be running here in a little bit and working out nice.   
 Q.  How has your relationship been with Parker?  Obviously took over the position for you and been doing a great job.  What's the relationship like with him?  
DREW OTT: I think we are pretty good friends.  Both kind of come from smaller towns and things like that.  We have a lot in common and like to hang out and things like that.  It's been a smooth transition and I'm happy for them.   
 Q.  Has he ever come to you for advice?  I often see you on the sideline with him, especially after plays when the defense is in their huddle; does he come to you with things?  
DREW OTT: Yeah, he'll ask me what I'm seeing or what he needs to do in this certain situation.  I'll yell at him or tell him what to do.   
 Q.  The fact that you're here with your teammates has to mean a lot?  
DREW OTT: It's been fun being here.   
 Q.  How have you tried to stay active and help coach up your teammates?  
DREW OTT: Just watching film with them and giving them advice.   
 Q.  So what about Stanford's offensive line:  It's big and strong and very much like a Big Ten line, wouldn't you agree?  
DREW OTT: Yeah, they are big and strong.  They have good technique.   
 Q.  Parker Hesse, kind of your understudy, how has he developed?  
DREW OTT: He's developing more.  He's been on the field for awhile and he knows what to do.   
 Q.  You and Nate Meier I know are very close and come from the same neck of the woods, divided by the Missouri River only, how much do you still talk about technique and game day stuff?  
DREW OTT: We always talk about stuff like that, we talk a lot.   
 Q.  The decision on red-shirt being granted or applied for, when do you help to find out?  
DREW OTT: Hopefully soon, the sooner the better.   
 Q.  Like in January?  
DREW OTT: Hopefully sometime in January.  I don't know.  They don't really give you a deadline.   
 Q.  When do you expect to hear?  
DREW OTT: Hopefully soon.  I don't know how it all works and they haven't given me a deadline.   
 Q.  You were somebody who has been injured for a lot of the season.  Jake is going through the early stages of knowing that he won't play on Friday.  What kind of leadership can you bring, can he bring, being on the sidelines?  
DREW OTT: I mean, hopefully we can just tell our positions how we would handle things if we were out there ourselves, and hopefully they can apply that and do a good job out there.   
 Q.  When you're in the meetings, what kind of things do you tell your guys that you see on film, specifically from their tackles?  It seems like they have great tackles.  
DREW OTT: Just everyday things.  You have to keep your pads down, keep your hands inside.  I think it's more we drill the basic, the better we'll be.   
 Q.  What's been your favorite part of the trip so far?  
DREW OTT: I had a lot of fun at Disneyland and going to the Hollywood strip and seeing all the stars was a lot of fun.   
 Q.  What question are you being asked over and over again that you wish people would stop asking you?  
DREW OTT: How does my knee feel.   
 Q.  Has it been hurt?  
DREW OTT: I hurt my ACL.   
 Q.  When did you do that?  Just the other day?  
DREW OTT: Like six weeks ago or eight weeks ago, I guess.  Just been hanging out.  Didn't expect to be in the corner for an hour of media.  Just trying to get through it.   
 Q.  Did Jordan have to get a wheelchair for you to make it?  
DREW OTT: No, would have been nice towards the end.  I want a little like hover board or something like that.  A lot of walking.  I think we walked like nine miles that day.  It was a big day on the knee.   
 Q.  Are you liking California?  
DREW OTT: Yeah, it hasn't snowed yet, so I think we missed out on some snow.   
 Q.  Where are you from originally?  
DREW OTT: I'm from Nebraska.  Midwest.   
 Q.  Do I ask a question, why Iowa over Nebraska or is that a touchy subject?  
DREW OTT: I got a scholarship to Iowa.  I didn't get a scholarship to Nebraska.   
 Q.  So you were happy to see Nebraska beat UCLA?  
DREW OTT: Yeah, good for the Big Ten, good for everything.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT