U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 14, 2014
Matthew Fitzpatrick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. (No microphone.)MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: I didn't play too particularly well, but at the same time I never felt like anything went for me.  I felt I was quite unlucky.  But at the same time, when you don't play well, you tend to sort of get those breaks as well.  So it was one of those things.
Q. A little bit of tightness or do you feel all right?MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: No, I feel fine, really.  I think it was just one of those days I felt -- I think it's the most relaxed I felt on the course, so you would expect the golf to be all right, but, yeah, it was just one of those days, really.
Q. The course is much tougher today after not having any rain last night?MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah, I probably would say so.  Yeah, a couple of tees are forward, but the ones that are forward on, they don't really make too much difference; but there's a few that are back and they make a big difference.
Q. And nice to finish with a birdie at the last?MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: It was, yeah, the only putt I holed all day.  So it was a nice way to finish.
Q. Are you watching the England match somewhere tonight?MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah, I think that's what everyone said to me, we're glad that you're not leading, Matthew, because we're not going to miss the England game.  So, yeah, that is my excuse, anyway.
Q. If you could just look forward to next week at the Irish Open, if I could ask you about your first tournament as a pro.  I don't know if you know that course very well.MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: No, no, I never played there.  I heard a little bit about it.  I heard it's quite a nice place. I heard that it's a lot different to here.  This will probably be a lot different as well.  I'm looking forward to it.
Q. And exciting to make your pro debut against such a strong field.MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Absolutely.  There's some good players and Rory McIlroy and Graeme McDowell alone, they're top quality players, so yeah, I'm looking forward to it.
Q. You've played a game that has impressed a lot of people here.  Maybe today the course finally maybe caught up to you?  It's dried out, obviously, and that's truly made a difference here.MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah.
Q. What, what sort of bit you today that maybe hadn't before?MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: I don't think it was anything in particular, I just think I didn't hole any putts.  I holed one putt all day on the last.  I think that was it.  I just didn't hole any putts. I probably played similar to yesterday, and again, even yesterday, and the day before, I didn't hole any putts of any sort.  So, yeah, that sort of tells me something that I need to work on for next week.  I'll just take it from there.  I thought the course was probably a bit tougher, but at the same time I didn't feel like I played any worse.
Q. How do you approach a Sunday in a Major, not necessarily going to win this thing, but you know the course now, how do you play it?  What's your focus?MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Just enjoy it a lot.  I'm out of position completely now for anything, so, but, yeah, just take it all in and enjoy it.
 
 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT