ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 8, 2020
Matthew Fitzpatrick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Glad to be in. But for today like the first seven holes I had it on a string and then all of a sudden I just seemed to lose every feeling I had in my irons. So it was then it was just a grind, as Billy tells me just to batten down the hatches. And just try and, literally, it felt like, just get it around, just advance the ball and then get it closer and then try and hole a putt.   
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: I don't know. It was tougher, like it was also tougher, to be honest. Once we got to 8, well, once we got to 6 as well, it started picking up. And then 8 was sort of howling across and then down a little and into a little, it was in between. And, yeah, it was just tough around sort of the middle, really.   
 Q.  Did you think after 16, though, the birdie at 16 did you think about a number?  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah, well, I mean, I thought if I could just, I knew I needed to par 17 and then obviously if I could sneak a putt on 18. But I mean, I felt if I'm 2-under might have a chance, obviously a distant chance, but, yeah, anyway.   
 Q.  Can you compare this weekend to anything that you've been through outside of perhaps the Majors?  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Oh, not outside the Majors, I was going to say Shinnecock. But it was -- yeah, I can't think of anywhere else that was sort of played like as hard as this, really. But I mean, like I was speaking to Derek all the time, I'm all for it like this. Like I would so much rather play it like this every week where it's a battle and you got to go work hard and grind instead of wide open fairways, no wind and just, 65, you move down as well, you know.   
 Q.  Do you need to do any work before the start of the PLAYERS?  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: A lot, yeah (laughing.) No, no, my driving feels great, putting was miles better today, short game was solid. Just if I can start just giving myself a few more chances and, yeah, I think -- but, I mean, from where I was after two rounds and three rounds, I'm delighted with where I am. So, yeah, overall looking at the result it's a fantastic week, obviously the process of getting there wasn't ideal, but, yeah, great week overall.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT