ABU DHABI HSBC CHAMPIONSHIP
January 18, 2020
Matthew Fitzpatrick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How do you view 3-under?  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah, good. It's a funny one. It's golf, the first two days combined, I had four chances, four birdie chances inside 15 feet and today I had eight. Sometimes it's just the way it is.   
Yeah, I just felt solid, just missed a few short ones.   
 Q.  Frustrated to three-putt the 12th hole, but how pleasing to shoot 3-under from there and put yourself back in position to win this thing?  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Definitely. That's one thing I want to be better at this year is sort of my attitude and patience, and so far this week, I certainly did that. Getting off to the start I did is not ideal, but it is what it is. Just got to try and grind it out and get back.   
 Q.  Thoughts on tomorrow? It's a quality leaderboard.  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah, obviously it's first week of the season, and to be second-to-last group is always a great start. Just looking forward to it, giving myself another opportunity to win, if I can finally go across the line, it would be great. It's all about just keep putting yourself in these positions and I'm sure it's going to happen.   
 Q.  How did the day go for you?  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: It was a good day, good finish. Obviously that's the game. You're going to have some bad holes, not have a bogey in 36 holes and then sort of three today, it is what it is. But to bounce back to get to 3-under and keep myself in it is great.   
 Q.  It's a testament to how you're playing and how well you play around here, given the kind of day you've had, you're still very in touch for tomorrow?  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah, definitely. For me the only thing that held me back today, I just didn't make as many putts. I had eight chances inside 15 feet, as opposed to four combined day one and two. I gave myself the chances and played well. Just didn't convert as many as I would have liked.   
If I do that again tomorrow, I'll have a chance.   
 Q.  For a few hours there, a strange scoring day, a lot of people grid looked at 8-under and 9-under until Westwood made an eagle. Did you find anything different today, the wind conditions or otherwise?  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah, today was a different wind than we had. We had different Thursday and Friday, too. I think that's the way this place is. I think today maybe made a few holes a little bit different for players. There were actually quite a few holes where the wind was blowing and the flag was tucked and the wind was blowing away from the flag, so it was difficult to get it close when it's like that.   
Yeah, I think it was a round that sort of had ups and downs. Lots of great names up there for tomorrow.   
 Q.  Will you look at leaderboard?  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah, I look at them. I follow them all the time.   
 Q.  At what point do you think you really need to make a chase at things?  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: For me it's the same as we've done the first three days. Just play disciplined. People are probably fed up with me saying it, but we can't always go at flags. The flags this year, to be fair, which I think is great, they seem a little more tucked than normal, and that's what myself -- that's what I want to see and probably the best players want to see, because then it makes the golf course difficult.   
I'll stick to the plan and hopefully keep doing that and making some putts and see where we are.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT