NEDBANK GOLF CHALLENGE PRESENTED BY GARY PLAYER
November 13, 2019
Matthew Fitzpatrick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What are your thoughts about this week? Anything new?  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: The only new thing is the tee on 18, added distance, which makes it considerably harder. The golf course doesn't change very much year-to-year. It's always in great shape and the greens always run fast. It's kikuyu grass, so you get flyers.   
 Q.  Coming off two top finishes, excited to make birdies on the greens?  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Definitely, when the greens are this fast, I think it's better for everyone, and they are true, as well, which is obviously the main thing.   
But you play all year and on greens that tend to be good but these probably stands out a little more than the rest. The greens out there are quite slopey, so you get on the wrong side, and there will be some tricky chips and putts.   
 Q.  Fourth in The Race to Dubai, and you've won every year since 2015. Do you feel any pressure heading into this week and Dubai to win or contend last two weeks?  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: I wouldn't say pressure to win. I would say pressure to contend. I'm fourth on The Race to Dubai and there's a chance to win The Race to Dubai still. It's probably the closest I've been so far in my career to winning it.   
You know, two good weeks and you never know what happens. Obviously without winning either of them, the results have got to go heavily my way, but win one or both -- win both, it will do. But certainly win one of them, it puts me right up there.   
 Q.  Four runner-up finishes this year. How has the game kept in shape and fresh, running from Hong Kong till now?  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah, just not playing as much this year. That's one thing when Billy came on the bag, that's one thing he stressed. Looking at my schedule in years gone by, I was playing 30, 31, 32 events and this year I think I'm at 28 maybe. It doesn't sound like a lot, but it is. It's an extra week to work on the game. It's an extra week of rest.   
Even just a week is a big thing. I think that's been a big difference this year just playing a little bit less and it's made the difference.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT