THE 148TH OPEN
July 21, 2019
Matthew Fitzpatrick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Just very wet.  Wind really picked up on the back nine and obviously the rain came through and made it rather difficult.
Q. How do you look back on the Open as a whole?  Do you feel it slipped away a bit?
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah, the first three days disappointing to only be 3-under, could have been seven or eight comfortably.  Today again felt like I hit some good shots, struggled in left-to-right winds, but just didn't get any good bounces, just kept missing the greens and scrambled really well, to be fair.  I'm pleased with that aspect of my game, that's improved.  I putted bad today.
But, yeah, I don't know how the rest of the week is going to go -- the rest of the day is going to go with this weather.  But probably a little disappointed, really.
Q. When you look back it's about consistency.  And obviously you know you can do that, you can get up there.
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah, definitely.  If I play anything like I did the first three days for the rest of the season then I should have some good results.  But it's a long season and just got to keep going at it.
Q. In terms of an Open experience being here in Portrush for the first time in many years, is it up there as one of the best experiences?
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: No doubt about that.  The golf course is fantastic.  It's for everyone to see, everyone loves it.  No one said a bad word about it.  You should come back here regularly.  It's better than a few of the golf courses in The Open rota, it should be.  And I think it is a popular spot and I hope it will come back soon.
Q. Obviously we don't know who is going to win this, but assuming it is Shane Lowry, and he gets the job done, just your thoughts on Shane as a player and a person?
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: I've spent a little bit of time with Shane these last few years, and just a great guy.  Really normal, really down to earth, nothing has changed I'm sure from when he won as an amateur.  And, yeah, I hope he does the job.
Q. What's coming up for you now golf-wise?
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Memphis tonight.  So, yeah, it's nonstop.  But, yeah, looking forward to next week, get out of this bloody rain and cold and wind.  Just pure heat, which is nice.  And I've got three weeks which is well needed.
Q. And looking ahead to football and the Blades?
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: I'll be home in time for the opening game.  Happy days.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT