THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 11, 2021
Matthew Fitzpatrick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. How would you assess your round today?
 MATTHEW FITZPATRICK:   Yeah, it was a bit hit and miss.  Played really well off the tee, drove the ball well.  Not too keen on how I hit my irons and then obviously my short game was fantastic.  Putting wasn't good today but it's not something I'm too worried about.  So I'll do some practice this afternoon and hopefully sort of play a little bit more solid into the greens tomorrow and take more chances like I had today.
 Q. From a consistency perspective where would you say you are right now compared to other times in your career?
 MATTHEW FITZPATRICK:   Yeah, as good as it's been, really.  I've had one other good time that I remember in particular when I had a good run of finishes, but that was back in Europe six, seven eight events in a row when I played.  Plenty of top 20s then.  But obviously compared to the strength of fields over here, it's considerably different than that run.  So, yeah, this is as good as it's been and hopefully looking to kick on.
 Q. Any specific thing in your swing that has clicked?  We talked a little bit about this before but what's working well?
 MATTHEW FITZPATRICK:   Yeah, I'm just, I think I'm just driving it well and before today I was putting really well and that's kind of the strength of my game and I would say that my putting has been as good and my driving's kind of, I'm hitting it a little bit of further and the same amount of fairways, so that's where I'm making the slight extra gains really.
 Q. Did the 17th green seem a little bit firmer than all the other greens out there today?
 MATTHEW FITZPATRICK:   If I'm going to be honest I felt all the greens were very, very different firmness, different speeds.  I found it really unusual.  There's some burnt out and there was some that were really green.  So, yeah, it was a strange one.  I'm sure you're obviously referring to Kevin hitting a couple balls in the water, but he won't get a chance tomorrow because he's decided to withdraw so he doesn't have to worry about that.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT