DUBAI DUTY FREE IRISH OPEN HOSTED BY THE RORY FOUNDATION
July 6, 2017
Matthew Fitzpatrick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Was it as smooth as it looked on the scorecard?
MATT FITZPATRICK: Yeah, we just had one slip-up.  We holed that 15-footer for par on the par 5 early on, so that helped.  That almost started the momentum really and I played really solid.  Gave myself some chances and took them when I needed to.
Q. Good to get back on sunny links?
MATT FITZPATRICK: Yeah, it was great.  It's actually not playing too much like a links.  It's almost pretty flat today, which is actually really nice.  But at the same time, it's not too firm yet.  So I'm expecting the next few days, if there's not too much rain, it's going to get firmer.
Q. What did you make about the Irish crowds and the buzz around the place?
MATT FITZPATRICK: It's great as always.  I love coming to The Irish Open.  It's one of the best events of the year for that.  Even yesterday, a Wednesday, it's a Pro-Am and the crowds were fully out.  As a player, that's what you love to play under.  The Irish fans know golf around here.  So you hit it to 20 feet out of the rough and it's into the wind and they know it's a good shot.  They are not -- you don't have to hit it to a foot for them to clap.  Yeah, it's great to be out here.
Q. The last time you've shot rounds in the mid 60s, it's been in the final round of a tournament.  So it must be nice to get off to a good start?
MATT FITZPATRICK: Yeah, absolutely.  It's funny, we were talking about it, me and my team, the last couple of days.  That's what we've been lacking this year.  Just not really shot under par and really got it going first round.  So hopefully after today's round, I can get a good shot.
Q. Quite strange that all your birdies came in groups of three on either nine.
MATT FITZPATRICK: Yeah, it's almost like you get your eye in.  You make one and then you go searching for another straightaway, and you give yourself a couple of chances, you can really give it a go.
Q. Birdies are good but how important is it to keep bogeys off the card on this type of golf course?
MATT FITZPATRICK: Yeah, definitely.  It's not easy.  If the wind blows around here, you can see how -- whereas today was a little bit calmer.  So probably a little bit more room for error.  Get away with a couple of shots maybe.  But you've still got to hit the good shots and keep it on the straight and narrow.
Q. Going out early tomorrow, you'll face a completely different set of conditions which completely alters the golf course.
MATT FITZPATRICK: Yeah, absolutely.  Windy, rainy makes it tough if it's windy but obviously the rain softens the course.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT