ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 16, 2017
Matthew Fitzpatrick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Not easy to go bogey-free around here at Bay Hill, but you did that.  What was working so well for you today?
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Just very consistent with everything.  Actually didn't hit many close or have too many chances inside 15 feet, but I holed some good putts and that's important around here, so it was a good day.
Q. (No Microphone.)
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Definitely.  I think it's a great golf course and if you get wide off the tee, you're going to be struggling a little.  Likewise, missing the green, it's tough to get it up-and-down with the greens getting firm and fast.  So, yeah, it's good.
Q. (No Microphone.)
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Really important for me.  It's something that really you're aiming for a win over here would be fantastic and I'm just trying to get my card right now and obviously that's significant.
Q. Nice round, bogey-free, 5-under.  Just talk about that round a little bit today.
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah, I played nicely all day.  Didn't really hit too many loose shots.  Just kept it sort of fairly steady.  Managed to hole a few putts as well.  So when it all clicks, it's nice.
Q. When you came out this morning and you saw 5-under posted already before you started, did you think that was a goal or did you think you could attain that this afternoon?
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: No, not at all, to be honest.  It was 5-under and then 2-under after when I looked at the leaderboard.  So that was a big difference.  When most of the field aren't getting near that figure, it obviously shows how tough it is out there.  So I was just playing each hole as it came and just trying to hit good shots and play smart, really.
Q. This is your third trip around this golf course, what have you learned?  What's the most important thing around here?
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: I think greens in regulation.  I learned the hard way last year, I didn't hit many greens at all and I was getting it up-and-down from everywhere and managed to still finish tied 27.  So then my goal this year was just to try and hit a few more greens.
Q. You're in pretty good shape now, you're looking to get your card over here, you got the Match Play coming up next week and obviously the Masters.  Would you consider playing more over here?
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Definitely, yeah, yeah.  Certainly in the long run, I would love to play more over here as well as keep my place in Europe, but it's something I need to sort of figure out, hopefully, if I get an opportunity I'll plan it properly.
Q. (No Microphone.)
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah, I played nicely, didn't really hit too many loose shots, a couple bad ones, but I managed to get away with them, which was nice.  But I played well overall.
Q. Playing in the afternoon wave, in the morning wave we had one guy who gets to 5-under par.  Was there an advantage do you think of playing in the afternoon as opposed to the morning with the temperatures the way they were?
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah, probably.  It seemed to warm up.  I'm sure a lot of these guys weren't quite used to the cold temperatures here, particularly in Orlando.  So I'm sure that was difficult, but we'll see how it goes tomorrow and see how cold it is.
Q. Obviously there's something about this course around here that suits your eye very well.  What is it about Bay Hill that you like?
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: I like that it's quite penal off the tee and missing the greens.  If you really hit it well tee to green you can shoot some good scores.  And I enjoy playing courses like this, it's a challenge.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT