OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 3, 2017
Matthew Fitzpatrick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Can you just talk about conditions?  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah, obviously it was very, very windy out there.  It seems likes it's calmed down very fast all of a sudden.  So they called play for the day, but could understand how the guys in the morning feeling a little bit hard done to.   
 Q.  When they called play, were the balls moving on the greens?  Was that the issue or was it more of a safety issue?  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: I think it was more of a safety issue, yeah.  I did get on the first and I didn't feel comfortable to put my ball down.  I didn't feel like, there was a gust it could have moved.  We didn't see anything -- Danny Willett I was playing with, had something on 3 where his ball just oscillated and rolled over a little bit.  But it wasn't moving inches or anything.  But I think a few trees have come down and obviously that's very dangerous for the spectators.   
 Q.  Can you talk about how excited you were to play with Tiger Woods and how much disappointment that he had to withdraw?  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: I don't think disappointment is the right word.  Obviously I was upset by it.  I would have liked to play another round with him and talked a little bit more, watch him play golf.  Same for everyone, I'm sure.   
I have no doubt that the large crowd that turned up on the first tee, I would have thought the majority didn't know that he's withdrawn and were waiting for him to show up and were a bit puzzled when me and Danny only went off as a two.  Hopefully everything's all right with him and hopefully he's going to be back for the next tournament.   
 Q.  An idea of the conditions?  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah, very, very windy.  Obviously stating the obvious there.  But wasn't easy.  I think the big thing, it wasn't a constant wind.  It was very gusty.  On our last hole of the day on five, I thought we had too much club and ended up being 20, 30 yards short because of the gust of wind we got.   
So yeah, I think it was obviously, blowing trees over.  Just the other day I was quoted saying that I like Dubai because it has perfect weather all the time.  That's now a lie.  Yeah, it was very strange to see it raining.  But hopefully it will be warmer tomorrow.   
 Q.  How does it set up for the weekend?  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Good thing is one-half of the field have made it to the weekend, so that's a good start.  It will be a long day tomorrow and hopefully everyone can get done.   
 Q.  Disappointment not playing with Tiger Woods today?  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah, absolutely.  For me, growing up watching him, to be able to play with him yesterday and had the opportunity to play with him today and not being able to today was obviously disappointing.  But obviously he has to do what's right for him and hopefully everything's all right with him and he'll be back soon.   
 Q.  General sense, how are you feeling about your game?  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah, good.  Everything's good.  Today was difficult this morning just to try to keep your ball under control.  A couple of gusts, a couple of bad shots, but hopefully it will be stiller tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT