THE RYDER CUP
October 1, 2016
Henrik Stenson
Matthew Fitzpatrick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Now you've gone out there, how did it feel?  
MATT FITZPATRICK: Yeah, it was a great experience.  Obviously not the result we wanted but I felt we both played well enough and we probably could have got something out of it.  Just one of them things.   
 Q.  Do you feel confident going forward in the tournament?  
MATT FITZPATRICK: Absolutely.  I'd love to be out there this afternoon.  Whether I will be or not, I'm not sure yet.  Yeah, it would be nice to play the next two and really get after it.   
 Q.  And Henrik, you're an experienced guy in these circles, how important is it to clear your mind ask get out there for the afternoon?  
HENRIK STENSON: Of course you've always got to shake it off no matter if you win or lose.  Yeah, disappointing outcome.  Like Matt said, we played well enough and it really wasn't our day, if you put it that way.  I think Brooks and Brandt, they got a way with a couple of tee shots a little bit more than they normally do and they took advantage of it and rolled a couple of nice putts in.  Yeah, you know, it's just one of them days.   
 Q.  A slightly difficult defeat; you played some good golf.  
HENRIK STENSON: We didn't get off to a quick start and after that we played all right and we were definitely in the ballgame.  If luck is a factor, I think that one was on their side today.  They managed to make some birdies from tough positions.  They hit it off the tee quite wildly and got a way with it most of the times, or made birdie most of the times.   
Yeah, it's not the outcome we wanted but we tried our hardest.   
 Q.  You made your debut today, obviously disappointing to lose, but you played fantastically well.  How did you find it?  
MATT FITZPATRICK: Yeah, it was a great experience.  Obviously it's not ideal to have your first one as a loss, but if you look at it, it didn't really feel that way.  Like Henrik has already said, they got away with a lot out there today, and hopefully this afternoon, it will be on our side and we'll do the same to them and see how they feel.  It will be good to get out this afternoon if possible and yeah, take it into Sunday.   
 Q.  In terms of the golf you played, you must be proud of that, your first Ryder Cup at 22 years old with that sort of atmosphere to produce that goal?  
MATT FITZPATRICK: Yeah, hit some good shots.  Obviously never going to be fully pleased and at the same time you're not going to hit every shot perfect.  Would have been nice to hit a few better ones, but a couple of good ones I did hit were nice at the same time.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT