U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 16, 2016
Matthew Fitzpatrick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Despite all the rain, you're in pretty good position right now.  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah.  It's been a good start so far.  Hopefully come back tomorrow and will hole the 15-footer that I've got and move on to the last four and finish well.   
 Q.  Tell me about your three birdies today.  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah.  The first one was -- I wouldn't even say it was a little bit narrow.  When you go long with the pin on number 2, I smashed it.  Just hit it so well.  It's gone long, unfortunately, on the up slope.  Actually made the shot probably a little more difficult than it needed to be.  Ended up going straight in without a bounce.   
And then played 6 fantastically well.  Just hit it exactly where we said, just left of the green, right in the middle, never holed the 40 footer.   
And 12 was playing so hard.  Driver -- no, I hit a 3 wood, 3 wood, 3 iron, 4 iron to about two feet.  Again, that was a really nice birdie.   
 Q.  How many yards on that last approach shot?  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: 198 to the hole so hit a 4 iron to two feet into a wind.   
 Q.  You say you have a 15-foot birdie putt waiting?  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah, on 14.  So hopefully roll in there that to get the day started tomorrow and we'll see where it takes us.   
 Q.  What did you hit into there and what was your yardage?  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: We only had 113 there so we hit just a little 54, I think, by the hole and then just gone back.  Couldn't stay in the hole with that much rain falling.   
 Q.  Tell me how tough it is, though, to start, stop, start, stop.  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: It's really tough.  They made it a little bit easier having us warm up a second time around.  Obviously, tomorrow at least we'll have a warmup, get a chance to do that.  But certainly the first time, waiting for an hour and then having a 3 iron into the wind 218 yards is not the ideal start you want back.  So it's difficult.  You've got to focus hard and do as well as you can.   
 Q.  Thanks very much.  
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT