DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 21, 2015
Matthew Fitzpatrick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How do you reflect then on the week so far, pretty successful?
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah, it's been pretty steady so far.  Hopefully another good one tomorrow and see where we end up.
Q. Pretty steady means satisfying or a little frustrating at the same time?
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: I think if someone had said 11-under after the first three and I am where I am, yeah, I'd definitely had taken that.  I'll be in a good position tomorrow.  If I can go out there and shoot a ridiculously low one, you never know.
Q. Can you see a ridiculously low one?
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Not a great round in the middle and had a good finish.  If I can do the same and have a good middle, then we'll be laughing.
Q. There have been so many missed times for you this season.  Is this a case of liking this course immediately the first minute you set eye on it?
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: No, I don't think so.  I don't think it particularly suits my game.  It's quite a long course.  But you've still got to put yourself in position off the tee and on the greens.  The greens are big and you've got to give yourself the right angles in.  But been a good week so far and hopefully one more good round.
Q. Does that mean you're finding the right strategy?
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah, I guess so.  I think that's something I've done with my caddie this year quite well is we've planned our way around and I think most of the time, we are probably a little bit more aggressive than most maybe, particularly after I got my card, anyway.  Changed the plan a little bit and so far it's been going well.
Q. When you come into the last one on such a monumental year, are you determined to finish in style?
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yes and no.  I mean, I'm just trying to finish as high as I possibly can every week.  If the highest I can do is 10 this week or 20th, then that's as high as it goes.  We've given it our best and that's all you can do.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT