UBS HONG KONG OPEN
October 22, 2015
Matthew Fitzpatrick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What are your thoughts on your first competitive round since victory at Woburn?
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah, it was good.  A bit of rust obviously.  I had a week off last week.  Just got to get that out of the system.  But no, I've been looking forward to playing here all year to be honest.  I've heard it's a great place, and it is.  It's been a good start for me.
Q. How has it been since the victory?
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Very busy, yeah, yeah, very busy.  I was at home for five days, which seems a lot but it never is.  It just went so fast.  So it was nice to be home after obviously winning on home soil made it easier.  Yeah, it's just been pretty hectic.
Q. I take it it's good to actually have that time to digest that it's a win and celebrate and see all your mates and things?
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah, definitely, definitely.  It's been great to see them and catch up with them.  Particularly after the win, most of them were down there, anyway to see it.  That was pretty special.
Q. Has it changed your approach to this one, which you say you've been looking forward to for awhile.  You want to keep it going and all the good form you've had across the season?
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: I'm still here to try and win just like I do every week.  It was definitely a place I had on my schedule at the start of the year.  I had heard great things about the course.  A lot of people told me the course would suit me.  Yeah, I wanted to play it and I wasn't going to pull out because of that.
Q. After this first taste, does it suit you?
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: I think so, yeah.  Good start.  Good start to the week, 3-under today.  So hopefully just more of that the rest of the week.
Q. You've had a few days to get acclimatised.  What are your first impressions of Hong Kong itself?
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: I've only been in once so far.  Going to go in this afternoon and have a bit more of a look around.  Yeah, it seems like a great city, and yeah, I'm looking forward to going in this afternoon actually.
Q. Do you like the heat?
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yes.  It's nice to be out of the cold of the last three weeks.  But it is a little bit humid.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT