WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 4, 2015
Matthew Fitzpatrick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What then are your thoughts on playing the HSBC Champions?  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: It's great, yeah.  Great first few days here.  Really impressed with the facilities and the golf course, as well.  Yeah, it's great to be part of this event.   
 Q.  As a first time in any kind of venue, do you take it all in or do you make immediate impressions?  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: No, just try and take it all in to be fair.  Just enjoy the week if I'm honest.  This is my first World Golf Championships, as well, so it's all a great experience.  Got to admit, didn't really realise the strength of the field; not that that's a bad thing.  It's something that -- that's why I come to play.  I'm looking forward to the week and hopefully having a good one.   
 Q.  That's the reward for playing as well as you have, isn't it.  It all comes with the territory?  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah, absolutely.  It was a goal to make all four in The Race to Dubai and didn't really know what to expect, but I managed to obviously come through and get in all four.  It's been a great experience.   
 Q.  So how do you treat things?  Try to treat it just like a normal tournament?  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah, absolutely.  Absolutely.  Stick to the game plan we've made over the first few days and execute that as best we can.   
 Q.  Rain aside, what are your impressions of Sheshan?  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah, great place.  Facilities are fantastic.  The range is good, chipping and putting green is good.  It's in perfect condition, no complaints about that.  Maybe a little bit soft but it's very green and greens are perfect.   
 Q.  One that's likely to suit you?  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Maybe.  It's a little bit longer, I have to admit.  I think it is going to suit the longer hitters.  You do go in the rough, it's not easy to get out, or it's not easy to hit it where you want after that; whereas the guys that hit it 340, 350, then they are only going in with lob-wedge where I'm coming in with 5-iron.  So makes a difference.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT