TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
October 30, 2015
Matthew Fitzpatrick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Matthew Fitzpatrick the human ATM machine, 73 yesterday, 63 today.  I know it sounds obvious, but what was the difference?  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: I just holed putts today.  Yeah, yeah, I putted really nicely.  Gave myself a lot of chances yesterday but holed nothing.  34 putts yesterday, and I haven't counted what I had today but it was miles better obviously.   
 Q.  With how well you've done over the last few weeks spectacular lie, how does your mentality change from what it was, say, three, four months ago?  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: I don't know, I think maybe just enjoy my golf a little bit more.  I've worked on a couple of things in changing from a draw to a fade.  I think that's helped me out a lot, less losing it left and more control of the ball.  Been fairly consistent over the last few months.   
 Q.  How about the fun side of being part of the right end of The Race to Dubai?  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah, that's always a bonus, as well.  To be there for my first year on Tour is something that I never expected.  It's exceeded my expectations and just hopefully keep climbing up.   
 Q.  The turnaround in this tournament goes to this young man, shooting 73 yesterday.  I saw you working on your game close to dark to try to correct some issues from yesterday, and obviously it worked out, the 63 today.  Simply what was the difference today compared to Thursday?  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: I just holed some putts today.  Yesterday I did give myself a lot of chances.  I hit 15, 16 greens, all good chances for birdie, but made two birdie putts all day for birdie.  That was the difference today.  Gave myself a chance again and just holed them.   
 Q.  How much has this changed your optimism about winning this tournament?  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah, absolutely.  For me it shows that there's a low one out there for me.  Two more of those and hopefully that will do the trick.  But yeah, like I say, give myself a little bit more of a chance, and back in the tournament now.   
 Q.  Considering your last two starts, victory and tie for third; how surprised were with you yesterday's round?  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: I think I was more frustrated than anything.  I didn't feel like I was playing well but when I look back at it, I do give myself a lot of chances.  I did actually play well tee-to-green.  It was just on the greens that I didn't hole anything.  Obviously that's the scoring part, so that's where it all counts.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT