BRITISH MASTERS SUPPORTED BY SKY SPORTS
October 9, 2015
Matthew Fitzpatrick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Great round of golf.  Talk us through that little chip-in on 3.
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah, it was tough.  I was just happy to get it up-and-down, and the fact it went in was an absolute bonus.  It was a good little shot.
Q. But in the context of the round, after two bogeys in four holes, just how important was it to get back on track there?
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah, definitely.  I felt like I struggled a little bit hitting the ball out there today.  I didn't hole as many putts as I did yesterday.  It was just sort of trying to grind it out, to be fair.  Sort of got the feeling back.  So my back nine, which is the front nine, hit some bad shots in there.  Just managed to make some putts too, so that was nice.
Q. No one has had more Top 3 finishes than you this season.  You are the youngest player in the field.  You are in good stead for the weekend because you have been in this position before?
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah, I guess so.  I learned a lot from this year really.  Been Top 3, like you say, three times.  Just got to keep working at it for me.  A good practice this afternoon, just to make sure everything is on track and look forward to tomorrow.
Q. How much do you have to plot your way around this golf course?
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: A lot, yeah.  It's not easy.  For me there's a lot of bunkers that are in range on certain holes, so take different clubs than most guys.  Certainly the two guys I played with club differently quite a bit off the tee.  Just finding may way around correctly and doing the best I can.
Q. Shot 69 and you are atop the leaderboard.  How do you reflect on the first half of the week?
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Great start.  Couldn't ask for anything better.  Not sure whether it will be at the top by the end of the day.  It is quite scorable out there with the condition of the course.  It's up there at the minute, so that's positive.
Q. Talk us through that chip-in at the third, your 12th today.  You almost had your back to the target.  Talk us through the technique.
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: It's something I have been working on actually, just getting the toe wrapped around the ball a little more so it pops with no real spin.  Just something that I can do to make it come out soft and release down.  It's something that (indiscernible) taught me pretty well.  Worked out well today.
Q. No one else has more top 3 finishes this year.  Do you feel ready for your first European Tour win?
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: I think so.  I don't know.  Hopefully it will just come with time.  Like I've said to everyone, it's not something that I'm absolutely chasing at the minute.  I'm not focused on it.  It's more moving up the World Rankings.  If I don't win between now and Augusta, get in Augusta through the World Rankings and I'll be a happy man.
Q. You got your card.  You seem to be getting more comfortable.  Is it a gradual thing or was there a particular tournament?
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: I think so.  Switzerland helped a lot playing with Dan.  Obviously I know him really well.  I felt like I compete with him and he's one of the best players in the world.  That sort of gave me a lot of confidence.
The other thing for me, I secured my card there, so there's no worries about laying up on par-5s or if your club's in between, you just tend to go for it.  That's been a little bit as well.  Just been a little bit more aggressive in the way we play.
Q. You mentioned you focus more on World Rankings than the win.  Any particular reason for that?
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Just getting in the majors, the World Golf Championships.  Just helps considerably, you know.  That's where I want to be.  I want to be competing in the long run for majors and stuff like that.  For me, it's just a matter of -- not a matter of time, about taking my time.  I'm only just 21 as well.  So that's something everyone keeps telling me.  Just taking my time, I guess.
Q. That mentality, that being relaxed, does that help you?  Now you have got to card, not putting too much pressure on you?
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Definitely.  That was a big thing to start the season.  In an ideal world, you get the card straightaway and that will be that.  I still feel like it happened fairly early for me.  Switzerland was early this year.  It gave me almost half the season to just -- it also happened to boost me into the Race to Dubai as well.  So that was a smaller goal to start the year, but managed to achieve that.
Q. (Inaudible).
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yes, I've been three or four times this year.
Q. Is that an important thing?
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah, it was.  I have some of my closest friends over there when I was at college.  I went spending every day with them.  So it was -- I've got close friends over here, but I'm never at home.  So I never get to see them.  Sort of go in there at the start of the year to visit them, so that sort of helped my season.  Just made me relax a little bit more, just realize what they said, you've just got to enjoy it, keep working hard and enjoy it.  That was a big thing for me that helped changed my season.
Q. What have you done with all the money?  Have you bought a house?
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Not done anything with it right now, no.  I'm still getting abuse for having a Ford.  That was something that Chris Woods decided to give me grief for yesterday.  I'm working on it.  Unfortunately, I just missed the -- sort of started having my good results after the good deals had finished.  I'll have to wait for next year now.  Hopefully next time Chris Woods sees me driving, it will be in a nicer car.
I can't complain because the guy that gave it to me, he's a member of my golf club and it's just on his company.  I only pay for petro, so it's a great deal.  And it is great miles per gallon.
Q. A new car, is it?
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: No.  It's four or five years old.
Q. Is that your first car?
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah, sort of mine, sort of not.
Q. Where are you living?
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Still at ome.
Q. Do you have a dream car that you would fancy?
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Not really, no.  It's way out of my price range.  No, I'm not really focused on anything like that at the minute.  I'd rather by a house first, I think.
Q. Ever see yourself being like Poulter and having six Ferraris in the garage?
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: That would be nice.  It's not something I would be desperate to fulfill, no.  I mean, he's obviously doing great and spends his money very wisely.  I'd take six Ferraris.
Q. As you said looking forward to driving down Magnolia Lane next year, too?
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: That would be a dream come true as a professional.  I was lucky enough to play as an amateur.  I don't think there is anywhere like that place.  It's so special.  It would be great to be there as a pro.
Q. You are way ahead of your expectations for this season?
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: I set myself a target.  It was sort of deep down it was like I can do it, get to the Race to Dubai.  I think everyone was like don't get too ahead of yourself.  It was always down there in the back of my mind.
Didn't have a great start.  I thought I would like keep my card.  Started playing well, and all of a sudden in the Race to Dubai and achieved the goal.  So now we're sort of reassessing the next ones really.
Q. Is your dad out there again today?
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: He was, yeah.  He's not here.  I think it takes about three hours to walk back to the tent.
Q. You didn't give him a ride?
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: No.  I offered, but he's with customers, so he's sort of keeping them entertained.
Q. Here for the weekend, I imagine.  Few more requests for tickets?
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: I've already got a few.  I'm just working on getting a few more.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT