UBS HONG KONG OPEN
October 24, 2015
Matthew Fitzpatrick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  That was a pretty sweet day, wasn't it, with some lovely moments within.  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah, it was a good day overall.  Disappointing to finish with a bogey obviously.  Missed a couple chances coming in, as well, so it would have been even nicer, but it was a good Saturday's work.   
 Q.  And a very nice putt from off the green thrown in, as well.  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah, I didn't expect it to go in because it was going a hundred-mile-an-hour I felt.  I was just happy for it to drop and not go ten feet past.   
 Q.  Earlier in the week, you touched on the fact that everyone said you should enjoy this course; are you?  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah, definitely.  It suits my game I feel and sort of playing quite nicely.  So far, it's going quite well and hopefully another good round tomorrow and see where we are.   
 Q.  Does that mean it's love at first sight when you stand on some of these tee boxes?  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Definitely a lot of the holes suit my eye, so that's quite nice.  Don't get too nervous over many tee shots out there, which is obviously always a positive.  Looking forward to tomorrow and hopefully I'll be back next year.   
 Q.  I know we touched on this at the start of the week, but following up a victory, you're never sure entirely what to expect, so a good week, really?  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah, so far, so good.  Feeling pretty comfortable with my game and just like I say, just looking forward to getting going tomorrow and put myself in contention again.  I know there's still a lot of guys to come in and doing well, but hopefully I'm not too far back and can give it a good go tomorrow.   
 Q.  I know you're modest and you're bound to be modest but you must be flying at the moment, aren't you?  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Kind of.  I don't think anything's sunk in, really, so I'm kind of just going with the flow and playing each round as it comes.  I'm just trying to stay grounded really.   
 Q.  Any guesstimate of what is necessary tomorrow?  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: 10-under would do it probably.  No, I couldn't put a guess on it.  I know 10-under, chances are it probably would.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT