SALTIRE ENERGY PAUL LAWRIE MATCH PLAY
July 30, 2015
Matthew Fitzpatrick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Your thoughts on a resounding victory, because that was lovely golf, wasn't it?
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah, it was nice.  Great start to the week.  Played nicely.  The course is in great condition.  With the wind, it makes it really tricky.  So just important to just keep working hard out there and try to make up-and-downs.  Not easy hitting greens.  The numbers that you are getting out there are quite difficult because it's so firm, as well.  It was a good morning's work.
Q. And what's the story of the match, because you got a head and stayed there, nicely controlled.
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah, yeah, absolutely.  I sort of just kept putting pressure on, really.  Made a couple good up-and-downs early.  Yeah, just kept playing steady, really.  Holed a couple long putts, as well.  To be honest, that was it, just playing par golf.  Not many birdies out there, especially it's really windy.
Q. Does it benefit you twofold that you played so well last week and that perhaps you are more used to this style of golf than others in the field?
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah, definitely, coming here with a bit of form.  Played nicely last week.  Like you say, used to playing this links golf, so yeah, it's good.  I've been looking forward to this week for a while, and I didn't actually know that I was going to get in until obviously last week.  Really pleased to be here and so far it's a really well-run event.  Yeah, looking forward to the rest of the week.
Q. Looking forward to it for a while, because?
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Never said a while, but hopefully it is a while.  Yeah, just keep working hard out there and just hopefully keep on winning obviously.
Q. But you said you were looking forward and hoping to play in this event.  What was it that excited you?  Was it match play?  Was it links?  Was it the fact that it's something a little bit different?
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: No, just absolutely match play.  I think it's quite exciting to play against each other.  It's unusual for a pro game to have that.  I think to be able to have an event like this is great.  I think it just makes it quite exciting for me.  Obviously not being pro for -- yeah, I've been a pro a year now, but I'm probably the last person to play match play who is playing this week, whereas a lot of the guys haven't played it for years and years.  Yeah, it's great to play it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT