BRITISH MASTERS SUPPORTED BY SKY SPORTS
October 10, 2015
Matthew Fitzpatrick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How would you assess the round?  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah, it was a battle out there.  I have to admit I didn't feel like I played my best.  Just never felt like I was -- never really felt like I was threatening any of the flags out there.  Just sort of played fairly steady really.  Didn't hit so many great shots.  But managed to find the green and get off with two putts when I could, and holed the putts when I needed to.   
 Q.  For me the driver was the best part of your game.  That's how I saw it; how about yourself?  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah, definitely, felt like I hit some poor ones early on but got a way with them if I'm honest.  But coming in I felt like I drove it a lot better and sort of knew where I was swinging it.   
 Q.  Last group tomorrow, comfortable with that?  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah, definitely.  I'm really excited.  Looking forward to it already.  Second or third time in the last group, so yeah, I'm really looking forward to it.   
 Q.  The experience will help tomorrow as will all the family, I guess.  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah, definitely.  It's nice to have them here and the support out there.  It's been absolutely fantastic.  I really appreciate it and it's been a great week so far.   
 Q.  Did you have to stay particularly patient out there today?  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah, definitely.  My caddie told me, early doors, no one was running away with it, so it was nice just to hang in there and just keep trying to hit good golf shots and stay with everyone, really.  It was certainly a day of patience and just holing some putts.   
 Q.  And with 16 players within five shots of the lead, it's going to take an equal effort tomorrow or even a better effort maybe tomorrow.  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah, absolutely.  I have no doubt it's going to take a low one to win tomorrow.  I'd say all bunched at the top, just have to see how it goes.   
 Q.  You've led a tournament overnight but never three days in a row.  That must be particularly pleasing for you?  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah, it's fantastic obviously.  I saw the stat this morning and some great names have won wire-to-wire.  Be nice to add mine to that.  But yeah, obviously something in the back of my mind, just go out and play good golf and we'll see.   
 Q.  Is it important having an experienced caddie on the bag?  Does that help calm you down going into the final day?  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah, we've been in this situation a few times this year where we've been challenging.  We're both gaining experience together and yeah, he's been helpful.  We're both looking forward to it tomorrow.   
 Q.  Did you find it a grind today?  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah, I thought so.  It's funny, I felt like I hit a lot of greens but I still felt like it was difficult.  I didn't feel like I had a lot of chances.  It was just about 2-putting and getting on to the next one or one putting if I could obviously.   
 Q.  And the first colour on your card was a bogey but you did well to put that to the back of your mind.  What do you do to compartmentalise that and just focus on what you've got to do?  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Just try to have one shot at a time, one hole at a time more importantly, sort of not get ahead of myself.  Not looking ahead of holes where this is a chance or this isn't a chance.  Just try to take one hole at a time and each one as it comes.   
 Q.  You'll be in the final group tomorrow.  Did you notice towards the end that you had almost the whole crowd of 13,000, 14,000 watching you?  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah, I know this was a big crowd and the support has been absolutely fantastic this week.  It's great to have an event back in the U.K.  I know there was a couple already this year but this has been really special this week, and for me to be leading is really nice.   
 Q.  And six or seven additional ones, they are a bit special, too, friends and family.  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah, it's good to have them.  Only two hours from where I live, so it's easy for them to nip down and watch.  Have a few more friends out tomorrow.  So yeah, looking forward to it.   
 Q.  Seems like we've been asking you the same questions for three days now.  Is it feeling any closer?  I know you keep saying it's not about the win.  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Obviously it's impossible not to focus on it.  But, well, focus isn't the right word really.  But obviously it's impossible not to look at it.   
I think my focus is still just to finish as high as possible, and if it's a win, it's a win.  I think when you've got six holes to play and you're up there or whatever, then things might change.  Yeah, just have to see how the day plays out and see where you're at really.   
 Q.  A lot of players up there.  Did you dream as a young boy going head-to-head with somebody like Luke Donald or being in the mix?  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah, definitely.  Luke is someone I've spent a little bit of time over the past couple months because we have the connection with the same university and stuff.  Chat to him a little bit about that and golf and stuff.   
Yeah, it would be nice to sort of go head-to-head with him.  I don't think he's in my group but will have an idea on the board where he is.   
 Q.  People say you are the same type of player.  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: A lot of people say that but I don't think I am.  I think Luke's short game is absolutely unbelievable, and that's something I'm always working onto get my short game better.  I feel like my tee-to-green performances of -- not saying it's my strength, but I feel more comfortable with that.  It's something that I'm always working on is trying to get better at chipping and putting really.   
 Q.  Do you see Luke a little bit as a mentor, given the help he's given you?  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: A little bit.  I wouldn't say I have anyone in particular that's like a mentor, really.  I take little bits from each people I meet and talk to people about a bunch of different things really.  Luke just happens to be another one I might have got a bit of advice from.  But no, just try and focus on my own game tomorrow and not let that affect me.   
 Q.  You're smiling a lot out there.  Looked like you were genuinely enjoying it and not sort of stressing, given the situation.  
MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah, don't get me wrong, like now you look back, and I really did enjoy it.  It was fantastic, but it's difficult.   
It's like obviously there's pressure.  You've got a 6-footer for par, and coming up 16, I couldn't quite believe my ears.  I had just raced one past on the par 5 and a fan said across to me, "You raced that one by on the last."   
I was like, "Sorry?"  I said to Tommy, it reminded me of the Happy Gilmore film, the guy shouting, "You will miss this putt."   
When I raced it by on the green, I was like, oh, God, here we go.  But yeah, just see how the day goes tomorrow.  I'm looking forward to it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT