U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 2014
Matthew Fitzpatrick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. (No Microphone.)MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: I'll have to get used to it eventually, so --
Q. (No Microphone.)MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah, I really enjoyed it.  It's been a great week.  My aim was to win the low amateur, and to achieve it is pretty pleasing.  I think playing with some of the biggest names -- I played with Phil and Justin, a practice round with Rory, playing with Louis on the last day, and, yeah, it's been great and I really enjoyed my week, really.
Q. What's the biggest thing you learned?  What will you take away from this week?MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: I'm not too sure.  It's hard to tell straightaway.  I think I'll have to look at my stats from the week and see what I've done well and what I've not done so well, and I'll probably just sort of draw conclusions from that, really.
Q. (No Microphone.)MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: I was pleased with that, a great way to finish.
Q. What kind of advice did he give you for next week?  He said you were hitting the ball so well that he needs advice from you?MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: I don't know about that.  He beat me by two today, so, yeah.  No, just got to keep trying and keep working hard at it and just sort of take every round as it comes, really.
Q. If you're going to Ireland with a bit of momentum after getting low amateur here, do you think that's -- is that important?MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: I think so, yeah.  I think if I would have missed the cut by a mile, I think it's always a tough one to then go to my first pro event and sort of not playing very well, and I think four rounds of competitive golf is always a positive.  So, yeah, I think it's sort of a nice.  I said warm-up, I think the other day, about the U.S. Open, even though it's not quite a warm-up, but it's similar sort of thing, I guess.
Q. What did you think of the course?  A lot of people saying this retro look is the future of golf in America, that less water, more native areas, what did you think?  How did it play for you?MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: I'm not too sure, really.  I enjoyed the course.  I thought it was tough.  It was a good test.  I like the normal sort of the new style of America with water and all that, but at the same time I like this.  I wouldn't say I have a particular favorite type of course.  I guess I like the links at home and stuff like that, but no, I think it's just a great course to play, particularly the history it's got and, yeah, it's been a nice week to me.
Q. 70 on a course this tough is a lovely way to end your amateur career, is it not?MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah, definitely, that was.  It was nice to sort of get off to a good start, birdieing the 1st.  But I felt like I played really solid today.  The difference was I just holed some putts.  That's what I've not done all week and I wouldn't say it's cost me, but I feel like I could have done better maybe if I would have holed a few more.
Q. Did you send a text or something like minutes before you teed off?MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: No, I was just making sure that it was switched off and then I realized -- and then I realized as I come in, it's not switched off, so didn't do a very good job.
Q. Is there one part of your game that this week highlighted that you'll have to work on?  Was there another part that you thought, well, perhaps it stacks up better than I might have expected?MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: I'm not too sure, really.  You think it varies from course to course.  I think the thing is there's not many courses like this.  I didn't putt very well, but at the same time I felt like I drove it quite well and into the greens.  I think I read the other day that I was 10 percent higher average green in regulation than the average field, so that was a nice positive.  So I'm not too sure, really, sort of what -- what sort of went wrong this week.  I would say that I didn't hole enough putts, but at the same time I've had previous weeks where it's been the other way around and it's just the week that it all comes together is the week where you play your best, I guess.
Q. What about that gesture on the 18th, the caddie lifting your arm?MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah, I didn't expect that at all from Duncan, to be fair.  That was nice.
Q. A big round of applause from the gallery too?MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Yeah, that was nice.  I didn't expect it, but, yeah, it was something different and hopefully it will happen a bit more often.
Q. Do you go straight from here to Ireland or will you go home first?MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: I'll go straight from here.  I've taken a bit of a long way around, but I am going straight to Ireland.
Q. What's the rest of the summer hold for you?MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Hopefully I'm going to get all seven of my invites.  At the minute I got six of my seven confirmed.  Yeah, just trying to get my card, really.
Q. (No Microphone.)MATTHEW FITZPATRICK: Not that I know of, no.




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT