SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 23, 2008
Bill Britton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Sort of go what happened to you on 15, 16 and 17. 
 BILL BRITTON: Well, 15's a very difficult shot and I was trying to make sure I turned it from right-to-left and I over turned it. The wind's almost dead straight into you there and any, I mean I was playing a draw, so I just wanted to make sure I drew it and I drew it too much and once you do that, you're pretty much dead, which I was. I made a good four, I thought. 
 16, I hit a bad drive. I pushed that, which is really one of the few bad drives. I've really driven the ball really good for two days. But I got on the green with an 8-iron, which was great. And I had a long putt and, you know, I left it about six feet short going uphill. 
 The greens are so darn fast that I'm a little bit concerned with maybe running those long putts by. And I missed the next one. 
 17, I was kind of, I hit a good drive, I was kind of right between clubs with a 3 and 4 there and I hit a 4 and I was trying like heck to tell myself to just hit it solid, not try and kill it. And I think deep down I was trying to kill it. And I pushed it in that bunker. And it was a tough from there.

 Q. I sort of watched you on 18 and it looked like the greens were really fast and it kind of took off a little bit on you and you kind of came up a little bit short. Can you tell us what you were thinking on that, what was going through your head?
 BILL BRITTON: It was 15 feet, straight downhill and downwind. I felt like I'm trying to trickle it in the front of the hole, I guess, but I'm not that good from 15 feet, I guess. 

 Q. What are you going to have to do tomorrow? You had a really good first day, you played a he really good second day, what do you have to do tomorrow?
 BILL BRITTON: Yeah, I played really good. I probably misjudged the putt on 13 where I 3-putted going down that hill. But I just was a little too careful going down these hills. But I played very good both days for the most part. I think everybody's going to make bogeys, so I just got to keep doing the same stuff. I'm hitting a lot of good shots, which is great. So it's very comforting to me. I'm driving the ball really good, hitting my irons good, so I can't really complain. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT