SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 26, 2012
Bill Britton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   The best position that I can remember is Oak Hill and you were playing a very tough golf course under tough conditions, the rough was up, it was just as tough as you can get at Oak Hill.   And now you are here at Harbor Shores.   Could you speak to what you learned on this golf course all this now for 54 holes?  
BILL BRITTON:   As I have learned about the course, getting more familiar with it, the wind has been different almost every day.   I mean a couple, I played a couple of practice rounds, so I've seen the wind direction a couple times now, but today was completely different.   
So I'm learning the course.   The greens are very slopey and very difficult.   You got to hit good shots.   When you miss the greens you got to get up‑and‑down.   
So I guess I'm just getting a little bit more familiar with the golf course and the greens.   
   
 Q.   You're patient.   You're a patient man when you play the game and when you guys come in here it's not like you're members, you have to learn this golf course on the fly.   You really have to have a crash course sometimes and you're doing pretty good for 54 holes.   
BILL BRITTON:   Well, thanks.   I played very good today.   I was very happy with today.   I messed up one hole, but other than that I played really good.   It's a tough course, but I did all right today.  
   
 Q.   You have done pretty good on tough courses in your career.   You've handled them.   
BILL BRITTON:   Yeah, you know, I suppose if I do, if I do anything well, it's making pars on tough courses.   I've never been the type to make a whole bunch of birdies.   But usually I play tough holes pretty well, I feel like.   
   
 Q.   This golf course, there's so many different sections to it, like 7, 8, and 9 are off by themselves, 1 through 6 are by themselves, 10 through 12 and 13.   They're all different sizes and shapes and you have to really adapt to all those type of holes, the plateaus you see and the mounds and the greens and that type of thing.   
BILL BRITTON:   Yes, a little bit, it's been a little bit difficult for me to remember which holes are which.   Even after I played it the first couple days.   Usually if I ride a golf course in a cart I have difficulty remembering holes.   And it's been a little bit that way.   And I guess because we ride from a number of greens to tees out here, but of course I remember all the holes now clearly.   
But it's a great golf course, it's beautiful, it's hard.   It's been fun.   The wind's been different directions.   And it's beautiful up along the lake there, it's beautiful.   The 7th hole is spectacular.  
   
 Q.   Once again you're representing your fellow PGA members and there's four of you that made the cut out of 43 that started, so I guess you could say that things are going well in that regard and you're looking good.   Was there any particular part of the round today that you held together so you could come in at 2‑under for the round?  
BILL BRITTON:   Well I bogeyed No. 6.   I parred my first five holes.   Playing good and playing good my whole time here.   I've been playing good lately.   And I just hit bad shots.   One bad shot after another on No. 6.   I made a double.   
7, I hit a good drive and I didn't hit a great 8‑iron, but I got a really good bounce to about five feet away and made it.   And that helped me out.   That just make us feel so much better when you do that, like a shot of adrenaline.   
I played the next two holes really well and made birdie there.   And really birdieing 7 just changed my whole mindset.   My concentration just was better after that.  
   
 Q.   It's a very scenic hole for those of us that aren't playing it, it's beautiful out there.   And the final thing is, how much preparation time were you able to find coming in here?   Give me a little feel for what you did before you came here?  
BILL BRITTON:   Well I played in a few of these now, I suppose this is my sixth one, I think, so when I qualified for this, and that's been the Senior PNC in October, I really look forward to it.   This is the highlight of the year for me playing wise.   This and the Senior U.S. Open if I happen to get in that.   
So I really look forward to those.   And most of the preparation is in the winter time, that's when I have more free time.   So I try and, I don't get to play, or I don't play a whole lot, I practice a little bit, and then I do what I can in the spring here.   
   
 Q.   Are you playing in New Jersey or where?  
BILL BRITTON:   I'm in New Jersey, we just started some of the section tournaments.   The first one was in April.   So we have played for about a month now.   And I got beat by a girl in one of them that I played.   That wasn't too encouraging.   We had a two man tournament that wasn't too good and I got beat by a girl in the first match of the next one.   That wasn't very good.   Although she played good and I played lousy.  
   
 Q.   It's humbling.   
BILL BRITTON:   It was.   But anyway I had a couple of, I played some better golf since then.   And I was playing pretty good prior to that.  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT