NCAA WOMEN'S 1ST & 2ND ROUNDS: IOWA CITY
March 26, 2013
Skylar Diggins
Kayla McBride
Muffet McGraw
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   Coach McGraw, an opening statement and questions for the student‑athletes.
COACH McGRAW:   I was really pleased with our perimeter defense.   I think our goal was to guard the three‑point line, and we did a good job of finding Printy and Dixon on the three‑point line.   Overall, I thought our press bothered them a little bit at the beginning of the game.   Got us off to a good start to start the second half. 
But Kayla McBride was phenomenal in the first half against the zone.   She got any shot she wanted and was making just about every shot she took.   But Sky did such a great job of running the team, forcing the tempo.   Getting the ball into K‑Mac's hands in the first half, and just an overall great floor game by Skylar, and a fantastic game by Kayla.

Q.   Kayla, 24 points in the first half.   Your previous career best was against Connecticut, and your new career best in the NCAA Tournament.   Talk about getting those kind of numbers against really tough competition? 
KAYLA McBRIDE:   I think I owe it to my coach and teammates because without them I wouldn't be getting open shots.   But I think it shows the balance on this team.   When you look at what Jewell did, had her career high the last game.   Sky was able to put up big numbers, along with Natalie Achonwa, it just shows how balanced we are and how unselfish this team is. 

Q.   Skylar, on that late and‑one there, it seemed like you almost looked to the crowd and said this is our house.   I wonder if that's what you said, one, and two, more so, what was it about this team that allowed it to finish the season without ever losing on the road? 
SKYLAR DIGGINS:   I think this team has played in so many tough atmospheres.   We played (Indiscernible) versus Tennessee, and any Big East road game we played in, we got their best crowds.   So we're used to the experience that we've had playing on the road.   Iowa was another tough environment we had to overcome if we wanted to keep dancing.

Q.   Coach, you touched on it a second ago, but you decided to open with I think it was a one‑two‑two press.   If I'm mistaken, correct me.   But you opened with the press, and then it seemed to generate some turnovers.   Talk about that decision to use it and then pull it off? 
COACH McGRAW:   It was man‑to‑man, and we were trying to double team with our best defender Ariel Braker.   She was trying to get it out of Logic's hands, and we were leaving Doolittle open, and I thought it was pretty effective to start off.

Q.   Kayla followed up her first double‑double this season with her career high in scoring.   How much better is the team when she's playing the way she has this weekend? 
COACH McGRAW:   I think when you make that many shots, you're going to look at it offensively, and everything will seem to flow a lot better.   I was really pleased with the three‑point shot.   She's more of a mid‑range jump shooter.   But she got to the rim a little bit, shot some threes and mixed it up offensively tonight.   So it makes it easier when somebody's getting us off to a good start like that and it takes the pressure off of everybody else. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT