WNBA FINALS: STORM VS. ACES
October 2, 2020
Kayla McBride
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  Las Vegas Aces - 93, Seattle Storm - 80
 Q. Obviously, you know, kind of a different game for you guys, a great night shooting the three-point shot, but only 17-56 on twos.  And Bill said that some frustration kind of came in when shots weren't falling.  Did you guys feel that out there?
 KAYLA MCBRIDE:   Yeah, I mean yes and no.  We knew it was going to be a grind, we know that it's the Finals for a reason and maybe it was a little bit of nerves, maybe you could say whatever it was.  But we still scored, I don't even think it was about those missed shots or things like that, it was about our defense.
 Q. I know you guys got off to like an 8-0 lead, but was it kind of hard to maybe shift gears a little bit in this first game from playing the physical, rugged style of Connecticut to kind of the more fast paced and free flowing game that Seattle likes?
 KAYLA MCBRIDE:   No, not really.  I mean you just, we played all these teams so many times that you kind of know it's more so about personnel than anything else.  So, yeah, no, I wouldn't say anything different.  I mean I still got a quad bruised in this game just like I did the last game, so whatever (laughing.)
 Q. So how does it feel to finally play in the WNBA Finals one game into your playoff career?
 KAYLA MCBRIDE:   It was fun.  It's exciting.  Obviously, we didn't get the win, which is what we want to do.  But I mean it's a great opportunity, seeing the little patches on the back of your jersey saying Finals and things like that, it's definitely cool.  And just seeing the decals on the court and things like that, it's cool.  Knowing your family is at home watching you play in the Finals as one of the top two teams in the world, it's dope.  And to be out here with all the adversity that we faced all season long, I was really proud to be out there with my teammates tonight.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT