DUBAI DUTY FREE IRISH OPEN HOSTED BY THE RORY FOUNDATION
July 8, 2017
Daniel Im
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  68, 4-under par, give us an assessment of your play today?  
DANIEL IM: Well, started out quite slowly.  Birdied the first hole, and then everything was quite good today.  Felt like I made a lot coming in.  I feel like I didn't make that many birdies because I made so many birdies the last couple days, but I played quite solid.  Made two really good putts on the last two holes.   
 Q.  You were saying yesterday that it's situations like these, why you play golf.  How much do you enjoy being out there in the thick of it?  
DANIEL IM: Loved it today.  The weather was great.  There were a lot of people out here today supporting us.  I just enjoyed every moment of it.  I mean, coming down the stretch, I was quite -- I had little goosebumps on the back of my -- on the back.  So I like it.   
 Q.  How aware were you of Jon Rahm's charge, he made four birdies in a row from the 11th to join you in the lead.  Were you looking at leaderboards or just keeping your head down?  
DANIEL IM: I didn't really -- I had no idea.  I was just kind of playing my own golf.  I got a little busy with my golf (laughs).   
 Q.  You're playing with Jon Rahm, world No. 11 and one of the fastest-rising players in the world, great talent.  What do you think?  
DANIEL IM: It will be great.  I'll just enjoy every moment of it and see what happens tomorrow.   
 Q.  Excellent round, tell us about your day.  
DANIEL IM: I started the day with a birdie on the first hole, and I made a couple putts to kind of keep going.  I had two really good par saves on the last hole.   
 Q.  If someone had said going into the last day of The Irish Open, you'd have a share of the lead, what would you have said?  
DANIEL IM: I would say, don't wake me up.   
 Q.  Something you're going to look forward to or is there a little bit of apprehension now because it's unchartered waters for you?  
DANIEL IM: No, I think I'm just going to enjoy every moment of it tomorrow.  It's always good to be on top of the leaderboard.  I'm just going to go out there and do my own thing and see what happens at the end.   
 Q.  How do you feel about playing alongside Jon Rahm?  
DANIEL IM: I think it's going to be amazing.  He's one of the fastest-rising stars in the world.  I think it will be fun.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT