DUBAI DUTY FREE IRISH OPEN HOSTED BY THE RORY FOUNDATION
July 7, 2017
Daniel Im
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  It's often difficult to follow a really good round with another one, but looks like 22 putts today was the key to 67.  Is that the case?  
DANIEL IM: Well, I guess.  I didn't really know how many putts I had today.  The weather was definitely a factor.  It was cold.  I was first one out; cold, rainy, so I just kind of plugged along and just kind of kept putting and playing and hitting balls and putting and ended up with 22 putts.   
 Q.  Is there any particular reason why you're putting so well?  Are you reading the greens well, got the speed of them particularly well?  
DANIEL IM: I've actually been quite struggling with my putting the last few weeks.  And then I just kind of kept working on it, and tried to read the greens a little bit better.  Tried to get the pace right.  You know, just putt.   
 Q.  Looked very comfortable out there.  You're obviously leading in one of the marquis tournaments.  Are you as comfortable as you do look?  
DANIEL IM: Yeah, I'm pretty comfortable.  I'm pretty chill.  No stress.  I'm from California.  That's just how it is, isn't it.   
 Q.  You've been playing over here for four or five years.  How good a handle do you think you have on links play?  You hit some shots today that shows you have some skill in that department.  
DANIEL IM: I don't try to fight it.  You know, if it's windy, just kind of go ride the wind, and you know, just don't try to force it too much.   
 Q.  How excited about the possibilities over this weekend?  
DANIEL IM: I'm really excited.  I'm really looking forward to it.   
 Q.  Particularly good day with the putter.  
DANIEL IM: Yeah, got quite hot I guess.  I had 22 putts today and made some good putts coming down the stretch and ended up with 67.   
 Q.  You were out early this morning, conditions not ideal.  Quite difficult, obviously.  
DANIEL IM: It was cold and windy and rainy, but I guess that's what you have to expect if you're playing out on a links course.   
 Q.  You're going to be heading into the weekend, no matter what happens, right in contention.  How much are you looking forward to it?  
DANIEL IM: This is why I play golf.  I just wish it happens more often, but I'm really looking forward to it, and I'm excited.   
 Q.  You seem very comfortable out there.  
DANIEL IM: Yeah, you know, it's just a round of golf.  There's no stress here, is there.   
 Q.  We spoke about the putter yesterday and just 22 putts today.  
DANIEL IM: Yeah, I mean, I wasn't really aware of it but just kind of happened I guess.  I made some good putts coming down the stretch, and ended up with 22 putts and shot 67.   
 Q.  Conditions seemed a little tougher this morning but the breeze seemed to be up, but again, you've managed to again around dropping only one shot.  That's one shot in two rounds.  That must be particularly pleasing.  
DANIEL IM: Yeah, I played quite solidly all day.  I wasn't particularly hitting it well but I managed my game quite well and just made sure I was on the green.   
 Q.  Looking at the strength of the field in the event this week, how special is it for you to see your name at the top of the leaderboard?  
DANIEL IM: It's quite cool to see your name at the top of the leaderboard all the time.  It's not just this event, but, you know, I'd like to see it more often.   
 Q.  Obviously now going into the weekend, you're aware there's an Open place up for grabs and you've never played in a major.  At what point does that start to come into your thinking?  
DANIEL IM: You know, I don't really care (laughing) honestly, I do care -- I do care, but at the same time, I've never played it, so if I don't play it, whatever.  Doesn't really matter.   
 Q.  But in terms of going well over this golf course, it bodes well for The Open, should you make it into Birkdale.  
DANIEL IM: Yes, yes, that would be amazing.  That will actually be amazing.  But I'm going to try to act like I don't care.   
 Q.  Talk me through what it's like going out there, raining, 7.30 in the morning and shooting a round like that.  
DANIEL IM: I knew I'm putting well and my game feels quite all right.  I just went out there today knowing the weather is going to be not so good.  I just wanted to play quite -- with no stress.  At the end, I just didn't want to get too amped up about it, and I just went out there and just played.   
 Q.  Have you ever got amped up?  Because you looked very laid back.  
DANIEL IM: No, I get it.  I was amped up last week.  I felt like I was playing quite well but I didn't really play well after I made the cut at The French Open, and I was pretty angry on the golf course.  But now I'm chill now.   
 Q.  Is that the way it goes, though?  You get angry one week, and then you find your gear the next week?  
DANIEL IM: Yeah, I guess so.  I always learn from what I did in the previous week.   
 Q.  You shot 64 in the first round, so how did you sleep last night?  Clearly this is a big event, $7 million, over a million dollars to the winner.  How did you sleep?  
DANIEL IM: I didn't sleep much because I had to wake up at 4.00am this morning.  It was a quick turnaround but I slept well.   
 Q.  In that sense, did you feel not that nervous about it when you stood up this morning, too early in the morning to get nervous?  
DANIEL IM: Maybe that was the key.  I mean, definitely you're thinking about it.  But at the same time, what's the point of thinking about it.  Just go out there and play golf.   
 Q.  Just finally, you're looking up there at the top of the leaderboard and see the name Daniel Im up there, you did win The Challenge Tour, co-winner of The Challenge Tour in 2015.  So you do have the knowledge that you can finish things off.  What are your own ambitions and thoughts this weekend?  
DANIEL IM: Just want to keep playing like how I'm doing right now.  Honestly, just didn't really -- I mean, I'm not very nervous, or I just want to go out there and just have fun.  Just enjoy beautiful Portstewart Golf Course, and then just see what happens at the end.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT