U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 2, 2001
Meredith Duncan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MEREDITH DUNCAN:  Thank you. 
 
Q.  You look a little worn-out there, looks like you are tired?
 
MEREDITH DUNCAN:  I am very tired.  It was hotter today for some reason. 
 
Q.  Less wind?
 
MEREDITH DUNCAN:  Yeah, that's what it was.  There were some breeze this morning, but this afternoon it was just hot period. 
 
MEREDITH DUNCAN:  5"1'. 
 
Q.  I noticed your feet didn't quite touch the floor?
 
MEREDITH DUNCAN:  And a half.  
 
Q.  You need a ladder?
 
MEREDITH DUNCAN:  I love it when my feet don't touch the floor. 
 
MEREDITH DUNCAN:  I played really solid.  I just hit my fairways and hit a lot of greens, made the birdie when they were close, and otherwise made pars.  
 
Q.  This morning, had you a tough match too?
 
MEREDITH DUNCAN:  This morning I had really tough match. 
 
Q.  Against Lisa Ferrero, I think you had her 3-down she came back, you did have to play the 18th hole?
 
MEREDITH DUNCAN:  Right, she played well.  She made a lot of like clutch putts.  On 15, I had, let's see, oh a 20-footer for par and she was off the green.  I knocked my birdie putt up, tapped my putt in for par and she makes about a 25-footer to save par, so she made some tough putts. 
 
Q.  You had two pretty tough matches today.  Is this one of the more difficult days you have had in Match Play, would you say, as far as--
 
MEREDITH DUNCAN:  Through this week, definitely because I didn't-- definitely didn't play any slouches, that's for sure.  I played two really good players and they tested me. 
 
Q.  With the summer that you have had, did you come in here fully expecting or knowing that could I get this far, final 4, or beyond?
 
MEREDITH DUNCAN:  With, I mean I knew I was playing well.  I knew I was playing well enough to go far, you know, to go a long way.  Obviously I want to win, but I just  -- I am taking it, you know, one hole at a time.  That's all I can do.  I don't like to look too far ahead of myself because once I start doing that, you know, I can't do anything about it now.  Only thing I can do now is, you know, what is in front of me.  So obviously I want to win but I am just taking it one shot at a time. 
 
Q.  What has been the difference in your game this summer that's clicked?
 
MEREDITH DUNCAN:  I have just hit the ball really solid and I have hit a lot more greens and I have hit a lot more greens closer to the hole, you know, like I have just hit it a lot closer I have made more birdies, my putter, I have been putting really well. 
 
Q.  Are all those things that you have worked on specifically  --
 
MEREDITH DUNCAN:  Yeah I have worked on my putting for  -- that's a continuous work in progress, because you can't ever putt well enough.  So I have been working just on getting good rhythm and working on reading the greens. 
 
Q.  Did you consider yourself a poor putter?
 
MEREDITH DUNCAN:  No.  Not a poor putter.  I just  -- I didn't make enough birdies, you know, I would consistently have 31, 32 putts a round, you know, and I'd hit 16 greens.  So was hitting a lot of greens, just not making enough of the birdies.  Now that five to six foot range, you know, I have got it down where I have got the stroke so whenever I knock it that close, I know I can make it. 
 
Q.  Did you work with anybody or anything specific to make more putts?
 
MEREDITH DUNCAN:  Not really.  Just kind of worked with myself. 
 
Q.  You like your chances, feel confident?
 
MEREDITH DUNCAN:  Yeah, I do.  I am playing well I am hitting it solid, so anything can happen. 
 
Q.  Your first match this morning seemed to be pretty aggressive, kept the pressure on right out of the box, you just  -- right went right for the flag stick with those shots.  Talk little bit about that match?
 
MEREDITH DUNCAN:  That match was really intense.  We tied I think two holes with birdies, you know, and it was a couple of times where we both  -- she was five feet above the hole and I was five feet below the hole.  I'd make mine and she'd miss hers.  So we were both  -- then there was times where we both hit it about six or eight feet and both miss it.  So it was just  -- it was real intense.  You had to make the putts this morning. 
 
Q.  How does that help you for tomorrow's semifinal?
 
MEREDITH DUNCAN:  It definitely helps because I know I can-- I am rolling it well, the greens are perfect.  You can't ask for better greens, and I know if I put a good stroke on it, it's got excellent chance of going in. 
 
Q.  Having won the Western and the north and south and now you are at the final 4 here, have you at all surprised yourself with what you have accomplished so far this summer?
 
MEREDITH DUNCAN:  Not really surprised myself, but because all along I knew, you know, I won the Western last year and all along I have known that I can could this.  It just a matter of getting the confidence to keep doing it.  Once I won the Western this year and I just played really good, and after that tournament I just had the momentum to keep going and I mean, I never really expected myself to do it.  But you know, I have known in the back of my head that I could. 
 
Q.  Is there a noticeable level in your confidence?
 
MEREDITH DUNCAN:  I don't know.  I think  -- I think I don't get down on myself when I hit the bad shots and I think when I do hit bad shots, I know how to recover a little bit better, so that's a big difference. 
 
Q.  Background?  How did you get started family play?
 
MEREDITH DUNCAN:  My whole family plays, mom, dad, my grand dad, my mom's dad plays.  He actually taught me how to play and he has been my golf my whole life he past away in February, so you know, when I was like two my mom and dad would go out and play and I'd tag along and take my little plastic club and you know, hit my little woofle balls.  I'd love to hit it in the sand when I was little, because I loved to go play in the sand.  Loved it.  My little sister, she loved to hit it in the water to make it splash.  I liked to hit it in the sand.  
 
Q.  Have you ever played against either Emily
  or Hillary? 
 
MEREDITH DUNCAN:  Yes, I played Hillary, I beat Hillary in the North South.  I played Hillary, I beat Hillary in the North South and I have never played against Emily but I have played with her a bunch of times. 
 
Q.  Is that an advantage at least you know what their games are  --
 
MEREDITH DUNCAN:  I don't know.  I mean, in Match Play you just  -- I don't know if it's good  -- I don't know.  I don't know if it's good to know their game or not. 
 
Q.  How much attention do you pay to your opponents's game in Match Play?
 
MEREDITH DUNCAN:  Well definitely pay attention to what they are doing.  I mean, if  -- you like to hit first in Match Play.  I think it is an advantage for me if I am the shorter play just because I am hitting first; if I hit a good shot up there, then it makes -- puts the pressure on them to hit a great shot up there.  So I love it. 
 
Q.  Use your driver anymore today without the wind or did you change  --
 
MEREDITH DUNCAN:  No.  Pretty much hit the same clubs off the tee. 
 
Q.  Your family here?
 
MEREDITH DUNCAN:  My mom and caddie are here.  My dad is caddying. 
 
Q.  You are making your dad walk in this heat, shame on you.
 
MEREDITH DUNCAN:  Yes, he likes it though and my mom is walking in the heat too.  So she's not  -- (laughs). 
 
Q.  This is your second US Amateur?
 
MEREDITH DUNCAN:  Third, I didn't make the cut two years ago. 
 
Q.  You played last year and how did you do?
 
MEREDITH DUNCAN:  I won two matches. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT