CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: FLORIDA STATE VS MICHIGAN
December 28, 2016
Chris Wormley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CHRIS WORMLEY: I think it's different this year with us that there's so many guys -- someone that's really surprised me, I guess, is Wilton.  Last year he was kind of just trying to find his way with learning the new offense and whatnot and then really blossomed in spring ball and in camp and has been a really solid vocal leader for us and someone I think we need, especially for this game, but we've needed all season, so he's stepped up and done a great job with that.
Q. Who's the funniest player on the team?
CHRIS WORMLEY: There's different funnies.  There's guys that are funny because just the way that they look, but there's guys that make you laugh because they're pretty humorous.  Kyle Kalis is pretty funny, him and Magnuson together, I guess not separately but together they're probably the funniest duo.
Q. Gone pigging?
CHRIS WORMLEY: Yeah, gone pigging and all the funny stuff they do together, so they're probably the funniest duo.
Q. Who is one comic book super hero you'd want to be?
CHRIS WORMLEY: My favorite was always Batman and then the Dark Knight came out and that just solidified it, so Batman would be my best choice.
Q. Best Christmas present?
CHRIS WORMLEY: This year I got my yearly supply of boxers from my mom.  The Fruit of the Looms come once a year.  But I guess my favorite was I got PlayStation 2 maybe 10, 12 years ago, and that was probably my favorite of all time.
Q. Who does the best Jim Harbaugh impersonation on your team?
CHRIS WORMLEY: We try not to impersonate him too much because you never know if he's looking at us or if he has cameras on us or not, but Ben Gedeon is pretty good at it.  You can go ask him.  He's somewhere around here.  He's pretty good at the Jim Harbaugh impersonation.
Q. Talking football now, the two key names on Florida State's team are Dalvin Cook and LAWRENCE DAWSEY.  How do you prepare for them?
CHRIS WORMLEY: Francois is a dual-threat quarterback that can run the ball and throw the ball so that poses issues for us.  Dalvin Cook is probably the best running back in the country, so he's big and fast and shifty, so all those things are causing problems for us, and if we don't tackle him, it could be a long day for us.
Q. Have you done any reflecting?
CHRIS WORMLEY: Not really.  I'm not too into that type of stuff.  I know maybe in a couple weeks or a month or so when I'm off training somewhere it'll hit me that this team will never be the same, I'll never put on that winged helmet again, but right now I'm just enjoying Miami, enjoying being with the guys for three more days, so it really hasn't sunk in yet, I guess.
Q. Where will your mind be when you walk out on the field?
CHRIS WORMLEY: I think there's two different things.  I think if the confetti is falling on us and we're standing on that stage after the game with the trophy, it'll be one thought, and if we're walking away with a loss it'll be another thought.  But at the end of the day, this has been an amazing experience for myself, something that 10 years ago or even six or seven years ago I never would have imagined being in this position.  It's pretty cool.
Q. What have you seen from Taco over the last few weeks?
CHRIS WORMLEY: Yeah, I think at least the D-line, we knew what Taco could do two, three years ago, he just had never really gotten the opportunity to show what he could do, and coming into the season he was going to be expected to play a lot more and what was expected of him more.  He had a little ankle injury in the Hawai'i game which put him out for a couple games, and then he came back still not 100 percent, and these last four or five game he's blossomed and shown everybody that he's the real deal and that he's a player that people need to watch out for and to look out for because if not their offensive line is in for a long game.
Q. So you guys knew this was always there?
CHRIS WORMLEY: Yeah, even last year Taco was our best pass rusher.  I think he had a half a sack less than me with half the reps.  We knew he was very productive in that sense of getting to the quarterback, hurrying him, and then when the sacks come that's just icing on the cake.  He's worked his butt off in the off-season to perfect his pass rush, and also in the run game, too.  A lot of people want him as a pass rusher, and Taco is really good at the run game, too, so he's the total package when it comes to outside defensive ends, so he can do it all.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT