NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: OILERS v HURRICANES
June 15, 2006
Chris Pronger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  How much momentum did you guys get after the win last night? 
 CHRIS PRONGER:  Well, obviously you are going to gain a lot.  Winning that game, especially the way we were able able to do it, the counteracting their power play and getting that shorthanded goal like that, unbelievable shot by Paz.  Certainly emotion will win for us. 

 Q.  How about Raffi Torres taking guys out left and right yesterday... 
 CHRIS PRONGER:  He was a human wrecking ball, that's for sure.  (Laughs). 
 At times he scares you out there, but when he's banging bodies like that, he's certainly makes the other team aware of him out there. 

 Q.  Does the eight day rest play as a factor in the last two games do you think? 
 CHRIS PRONGER:  I guess it's going to find out now.  Certainly we feel good in our locker room and feel healthy.  We'll have to wait and see. 

 Q.  Last few days you guys never seemed like a club that was a goal potentially away from being eliminated.  What kept you guys up and excited and believing through what most difficult game of any of your careers? 
 CHRIS PRONGER:  I think the biggest thing is the belief in ourselves and in our teammates and in the system that we put in place and everybody going out and executing the game plan and sticking to our guns and not backing off even when we were questioned by folks in the media and all the rest of that stuff. 
 It's what matters in that locker room that means the most and everybody is playing for one another.  That's what is special about our team. 

 Q.  Do you have the momentum now? 
 CHRIS PRONGER:  I would hope so, seeing how we won the game.  Had we not won, it would be over and we wouldn't be talking right now.  So, yeah. 

 Q.  Talk about Fernando Pisa, talk about him, he doesn't seemed to miss -- 
CHRIS PRONGER:  He's a finisher as we have seen all season long.  He comes up with big goals when we need him to.  Certainly no bigger one that that one yesterday. 

 Q.  What were you thinking when the penalty came, bad thoughts or all good thoughts? 
 CHRIS PRONGER:  Myself, actually all good.  We had other than their quick spirt they got in the first when they got the first couple of power play goals and third goal was a pretty weak power play goal, bouncing off the end boards, but you know, other than that we have really did a pretty decent job in kind of counteracting a couple of mistakes that we made first period on the power play.  I felt confident that we were going to be able to kill it off and continue to take the play to them. 

 Q.  First elimination game in the Playoffs was there a bit of an ease of mind going into this game, now you can just go worry about this game and only three periods in front of you -- 
 CHRIS PRONGER:  Knowing your back is against the wall and knowing that that if you lose you are done, there's that sense of urgency and that sense that you have got to go out and lay it all out on the line, can't hold anything back, got to be now or never and certainly Game 6 is going to be no different for us. 

 Q.  You played so confident? 
 CHRIS PRONGER:  We haven't been in that situation but coming down the stretch trying to get into the Playoffs and having so many meaningful games throughout the Playoffs, you start feeling comfortable in those situations and feeling comfortable with your teammates and how we have always been able to respond in those situations.  Certainly that was no different. 

 Q.  (Inaudible)? 
 CHRIS PRONGER:  I feel good.  I feel real good.  I think that the eight day break came at the right time and certainly allowed us the opportunity to not only get some rest, but to make sure you know, in the long grind of a series whether we got guys coming in or guys coming out, injuries, play apart, whatever the case may be, we have got guys that are going to be able to step up and fill the void left by those guys that are either in or out of the lineup.  Starting to see that now with goaltending, Harvey goes in last night makes a pretty big contribution.  It's pretty important. 

 Q.  Nobody in this league is playing 30 minutes a night other than you, nobody in the Playoffs.  You have been doing this for a long time? 
 CHRIS PRONGER:  (Laughs). 

 Q.  What allows you to be able to do that? 
 CHRIS PRONGER:  I think just your body adapts to playing those minutes.  You got to try to be more positionally sound and not waste energy out on the ice running around in different moments and you know, train properly in the summer to make sure that even -- when training throughout the season make sure that you are keeping your conditioning at the top of where it was coming into training camp and making sure that you are able to play those minutes consistently and not have any fall love. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT