NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: FLYERS v BLACKHAWKS
June 1, 2010
Jeff Carter
Chris Pronger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Questions for Chris, please.

 Q. (Inaudible). 
 CHRIS PRONGER: I think the Blackhawks did what they were supposed to do and they defended home ice. Now it's up to us to do the same thing. We played very well at home. 
 Although many of you folk might not give us much of a chance, we're not too worried about what you guys think. We're worried about what we think in the locker room. We think we can win. 

 Q. Is it fair to say that this is where the team generally plays its best hockey, coming from behind, taking adversity? 
 CHRIS PRONGER: Yeah, we've been in this position before. Not only in the Playoffs, but through the course of the regular season, and have dealt with a lot of different things, a lot of question marks, things of that nature, and have always come through in the clutch. This will be no different. 

 Q. Even though you're down 2-0, do you think you can get a bounce (Indiscernible)?
 CHRIS PRONGER: That's really all we can look at, is we need to tighten things up even more a little bit and get a little bit better, in a couple of different areas. 
 But we're in both of those games in their building and now it's up to us at home and maybe the bounces are going to go our way this time.

 Q. Chris, is it the comeback you made against Boston, is that going to help at all? 
 CHRIS PRONGER: It's in the past. It's against a different team. The only thing -- knowing we've been able to do it before certainly helps. Every team is different. It's a different dynamic, but having that experience and knowing you can do it certainly helps.

 Q. What have you guys done against Toews and Kane, that line, to keep them off the scoring sheet? 
 CHRIS PRONGER: We've done a good job of getting good backside pressure and our forwards have done a real good job of not turning the puck over. Their line, their transition is real quick. They get on the attack fast. Not having given them too many odd-man breaks, which they're very good at capitalizing on. Really taking away the time and space, not giving them a chance to make plays. 

 Q. Chris, you've played them two games here. Now you've played them two games in Chicago. What have you learned about individual skills (Indiscernible)?
 CHRIS PRONGER: What have we learned? I don't think I really want to tell you that. We've learned a lot. We'll see if we can implement it now. 

 Q. Chris, is there a sense with any of the guys in the room that we you shut down their best players and they still won two. Have you do you keep that out of your mind having nothing to show for it? 
 CHRIS PRONGER: I think it's pretty easy to take it out of your mind. It's gone and done. We have to worry about Game 3. We can't worry about that. We need to obviously -- all the lines need to continue to chip in, scoring for us, and we need to shut them down. 
 We've done a good job against their top line. But we need to eliminate those other lines as well. They've gotten a couple of good bounces to go their way on some of their goals. I don't think we need really to change too much. 
 As I said earlier, tighten up a few areas. Really, it's just continue to work hard and continue to press the way we've been. Some of the bounces will certainly go our way. 

 Q. Chris, you've obviously been through the Stanley Cup Finals. You seem to be enjoying this, the on ice, the off ice stuff. 
 CHRIS PRONGER: All of the what? I'm sorry. 

 Q. All the attention you're getting. All this -- you seem to have a lot of fun. 
 CHRIS PRONGER: It is the Finals. There is an awful lot of you guys and it's an awful lot of questions. Some of them can be monotonous. You know what, you have to enjoy the moment. It's not every day you have the opportunity to be here at the Stanley Cup Finals. You have to relish it. 

 Q. Jeff, how can you assess where this team is right now in the first two games? Do you feel it's been a very even Series? Where do you think you stand right now? 
 JEFF CARTER: There are a lot of positives that we can take out of it. Obviously, we would love to be up 2-0. That's where we are. We've done a lot of things well. I think the main thing right now is playing a full 60 minutes. We did that in spurts in Game 1, and the second half of Game 2 we thought we played fairly well, had a lot of chances. 
 It's just going into Game 3 and generating that with a full 60-minute effort, and I think we should do better. 

 Q. Jeff, can you talk about how Pronger -- the process he's having a lot of fun is that spreading throughout the rest of the team and taking pressure off you guys? 
 JEFF CARTER: Yeah, he's been good. I mean, you guys all know Prongs. He's a pretty loose guy. Likes to joke a lot. I think that goes well for our team. Kind of keeps everybody light and just enjoying -- like I said, just taking it all in and going out this and... 

 Q. What are some of the adjustments you need to you have had to make? 
 JEFF CARTER: It hasn't been too bad. We've done this a few times in the past couple of the years. He played before with guys like Krajicek and Gags. It makes it easier. I had a chance to get a couple of practices the first few games. Helped make the adjustment. 

 Q. Jeff, what is the -- if there is one, a frustration level in your room considering I think the Flyers have won nine or ten straight one-goal games and lost the last two? 
 JEFF CARTER: I don't think there's any frustration, actually. Like I said, we would like to be on the other end of this, but we're getting better. We're creating chances. 
 I think it just comes down to bear down in front of them and in front of the net there's a lot of pucks that are kind of laying in the crease and laying around deep, that if we start bearing down we're going to be on the other end of those games. 

 Q. (Question off Microphone).
 JEFF CARTER: Didn't play in the Bruins Series, down two. They're a lot of close games. And that's just as well. A bounce here, a bounce there and the games are going the other way. Like I said, we have to keep going at it. 

 Q. (Indiscernible)?
 JEFF CARTER: We're playing some good hockey at home. So obviously it's pretty easy to come out and get fired up and play hard in front of our fans. They're there game in and game out, cheering us on, which makes it a lot easier to go out there. It's nice to be back. I'm looking forward to tomorrow night. 

 Q. (Indiscernible)?
 JEFF CARTER: No, I don't think we're a different team. We usually play the same way on the road or at home. We get a little jump from our fans with them behind us. It should be good. 

 Q. You guys had four block shots, Richie had a lot of shots blocked. You guys have to do something different, especially on power-plays, getting shots through there, blocked --
JEFF CARTER: Honestly, yeah. Their D is pretty good at getting in the shooting lanes, pretty good positionally, Seabs and Keith. If we want to put more pucks through the net, we have to change shooting angles and what not and just got to go with it. We have to improve. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT