U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 30, 1994
Wayne Carey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
WAYNE CAREY:  Basically, my goals started out this morning  was to shoot an even par round.  Tried to not make any  bad mistakes.  I am glad I didn't.   
 
WAYNE CAREY:  2 bogeys.   
 
WAYNE CAREY:  I hit bad shots.  You usually wind up with  bogeys when you hit bad shots.  But, yeah, I bogeyed  number 5, which is absolutely the toughest hole of golf I  have ever played.  I bogeyed 11 which is probably the second  toughest hole I have played.   
 
WAYNE CAREY:  Well, characteristics on 5 is that you have to  hit it far, to have an iron that you can control into the  greens; very small target to hit to.  And 11 is, you know, where the pin was  today is just a sucker pin, and I went for it and I paid  the price.   
 
WAYNE CAREY:  I just hit the ball real solid today and I  putted real well.  That was the key to the whole round,  is the way I putted.   
 
WAYNE CAREY:  I shot 62 back in my home course about seven  years ago.   
 

Q.  What course was that?  
 
WAYNE CAREY:  Honey Creek Country Club in Conyers, Georgia.   
 

Q.  Are you still the greenskeeper there?  
 
WAYNE CAREY:  Yes, assistant greenskeeper.  Greenskeeper is  going on vacation Monday and I got to be back.   
 
WAYNE CAREY:  Then the general manager will take care of  it.   
 
WAYNE CAREY:  Yeah, I think so.  I have a lot of support  from Honey Creek and a lot of excellent support, and that  means a lot.   
 

Q.  As groundskeeper then, you want to talk about  Pinehurst Number 2 compared to what you are used to  doing?  
 
WAYNE CAREY:  You can't compare it.  Our greens are good at  Honey Creek but they are nothing on the stature of this.  These are absolutely the best golf courses I have played.   
 
WAYNE CAREY:  Semi-public.  We allow the public during the  week and private on weekends and holidays, for members  only.   
 

Q.  At any point today, at any point, did you want  to pinch yourself to see if this wasn't a dream?  
 
WAYNE CAREY:  I didn't want to wake myself up.  I wouldn't  even try to.  I stayed focused.  I had my caddy which is  my youngest son.  He gave me support all the way.  He  told me to keep my tempo and read the putts; excellent  for me.  He has never seen the greens except until  Monday, and he can read the putts as good as anybody.   
 
WAYNE CAREY:  Scott, and he is 30 years old.   
 
WAYNE CAREY:  No, sir.   
 

Q.  Is he a fireman?  
 
WAYNE CAREY:  No, he is not.  He couldn't get on.  He is  color blind.   
 

Q.  You only turned pro, what, about a month ago?  
 
WAYNE CAREY:  Turned pro 1st of June.   
 

Q.  Just because of the money and the opportunity  or what?  
 
WAYNE CAREY:  Well, I had four people that had showed enough  interest and had enough faith in me to put up their money  for sponsorship and told me to go out and play.  That is  what we are doing.   
 
WAYNE CAREY:  Well, been playing a lot.  I have played in  three senior series tournaments which is sponsored by  Global Sports Management.  It is a place for the seniors  that play -- that are not getting to qualify or don't get  one of the four spots on the regular Senior PGA Tour.  And it helped in competition.  They got excellent  competition out there.  Played good, excellent golf  courses and, you know, honing their games is what they  are doing.   
 
WAYNE CAREY:  No.  I qualified in open qualifying at  Rivermont (phonetic) in Atlanta.   
 
WAYNE CAREY:  I shot 70.   
 

Q.  Have you ever played Pinehurst before this  week?  
 
WAYNE CAREY:  No, I haven't.   
 

Q.  When you were active as a firefighter how much  did you play golf?  
 
WAYNE CAREY:  Oh, the last ten years about three to four  times a week.   
 

Q.  Quite a contrast in lifestyles?  
 
WAYNE CAREY:  Yeah.  It really is.  I don't like to travel that much.  I am  finding that out now.  But that is part of the process  and something that you got to learn.   
 

Q.  When did you retire from firefighting?  
 
WAYNE CAREY:  I retired from the Fire Department in June of  1992.   
 

Q.  Then you went to work at Honey Creek?  
 
WAYNE CAREY:  Honey Creek Country Club.  I had been working  at Honey Creek Country Club part-time for about seven or  eight years.   
 

Q.  You played in any Senior Tour events?  
 
WAYNE CAREY:  Never played in a regular senior tour event  but have played in senior series, which is like I said,  it is put on by Global Sports Management.   
 

Q.  How many of those have you played in?  
 
WAYNE CAREY:  I played in three of them.   
 

Q.  Your best finish?  
 
WAYNE CAREY:  20th.  Good competition out there.   
 

Q.  Montgomerie event?  
 
WAYNE CAREY:  Right.   
 
WAYNE CAREY:  It was $1,250.   
 

Q.  How about your amateur record?  
 
WAYNE CAREY:  I don't have an amateur record.  I have  participated in a lot of amateur events, but nothing on  the magnitude of people like Danny Yates or Allen Doyle  and--   
 
WAYNE CAREY:  No, I didn't.   
 
WAYNE CAREY:  No.   
 

Q.  What did you do in the mid-amateur in Georgia?  
 
WAYNE CAREY:  State of Georgia finished 19th.   
 
WAYNE CAREY:  Yes, very much surprised.  But it is something  that I have been looking forward to and working toward  and when I leave here I am going to go out and beat some  more golf balls.   
 
WAYNE CAREY:  I hope so.  I think I will.  I have got a  caddy that keeps me pretty cool.   
 

Q.  Compare the pressure to what you just did out  there to fighting fire with people inside or fighting  fire?  
 
WAYNE CAREY:  I much rather have a three-foot putt for  $50,000 than I had to pull up in front of a burning  building with people hanging out of it and I have done  that.  So. . .   
 

Q.  Have you ever had a wall collapse on you  or. . .  
 
WAYNE CAREY:  Yeah.  I have had quite a few couple of  times.  It is part of the territory that you go -- that  you have to cover.  It is like out here playing with in  these conditions, it is just something you got to learn  to do.   
 

Q.  At what point did you see your name on the  leader board and what did you think at that time?  
 
WAYNE CAREY:  Seeing your name on leader board on number 3  when I made my first birdie; then I birdied 4; then I  bogeyed 5.  One of my sponsors, he is is running around  here somewhere, he let me know about it.   
 
WAYNE CAREY:  Yeah, I seen it.   
 
WAYNE CAREY:  No, I knew what I was shooting.  I am the one  that has got to sign for the score.  Whatever they have  up on there, it doesn't matter.   
 

Q.  Can you go through the birdies on your card?  
 
WAYNE CAREY:  Okay.  I birdied 3 from about 20 feet and  number 4, I hit a wedge in there; third shot about two  feet from the hole and birdie it.  Then birdied 10.  10  was playing real tough today.  I had a driver 3-iron,  4-iron and about 4 feet and. . .   
 

Q.  Are how far?  
 
WAYNE CAREY:  About four feet and birdied it.  And then birdied 17 from about six feet.  So I was hitting the ball pretty close today.  I hit the  ball pretty solid.   
 

Q.  What did you hit on 17?  
 
WAYNE CAREY:  I hit a 4-iron.   
 

Q.  Could you say what happened on 5?  
 
WAYNE CAREY:  Number 5, I hit it down the left center of the  fairway.  It kicked over in the rough and tried to play a  shot out of there and I was hoping it would come left and  it didn't.  It wound up in the bunker on the right-hand  side with the, I guess you call it love grass and I  didn't have a swing, so I had to just punch it out and  hopefully it will get on the green and then 2-putt for  bogey.   
 

Q.  Would you have called it love grass if you  hadn't made it?  
 
WAYNE CAREY:  No, I would not have called it love grass.   
 
WAYNE CAREY:  I played everyday, Monday, Tuesday and  Wednesday.   
 
WAYNE CAREY:  Yeah, I did.   
 
WAYNE CAREY:  68 I shot 68 Monday.   
 

Q.  Have you ever been in an interview tent  before?  
 
WAYNE CAREY:  No, I have not.   
 

Q.  How does it feel?  
 
WAYNE CAREY:  I am nervous.   
 
WAYNE CAREY:  Yes.  If I am back in here that means I played  good.   
 

Q.  You are obviously a good player or you  wouldn't be here in the first place.  But what kind of  boost does this give to your confidence going into the  next round?  
 
WAYNE CAREY:  It really gives me a big boost.  I personally  had my doubts that I could play with the golfers and the  caliber of golfers that were out there and I am still not  real sure that I can, but like I said, it's a learning  process and if things keep going I am going to keep  playing.   
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT