US OPEN
September 9, 1999
Slava Dosedel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Having reached the quarterfinals of the US Open, obviously tonight didn't turn out
the way you would have hoped, but do you derive satisfaction with your performance here?

SLAVA DOSEDEL: Of course. I mean, it's the best result I ever had in my career. I
cannot compare it to anything. It's just the biggest result I had. It's great.

Q. Having never beaten Todd before, did you come into the match feeling at a
disadvantage, or did you forget the past and take it from here on?

SLAVA DOSEDEL: Well, the matches he beat me, he was always in very good shape. Lost in
Barcelona. He won the tournament afterwards. He was in very good form. But, of course, it
was in my memory in the beginning, so I was a little bit feeling like under pressure. But
after the first set, I got back into my own rhythm so we started to play, I think, both
really good tennis. It was just a question of a few points. 

Q. The crowd was really pulling for Todd. How difficult was it for you to be out there
on the court with the crowd that was so emotional about Todd?

SLAVA DOSEDEL: I didn't feel it that way. I felt pretty good on the court because the
crowd was fair play. They were fair to me. I mean, they didn't clap if I missed the first
serve or if I made a mistake. I think the crowd was really fair. I didn't feel too much
pressure from the crowd. I mean, I had my own little box there, which was helping me a
lot. No, I don't think it was big disadvantage.

Q. Generally, your overall evaluation of your performance here at The Open?

SLAVA DOSEDEL: My evaluation? 

Q. Of your performance at the US Open, overall experience here. 

SLAVA DOSEDEL: Big surprise. I mean, coming here to play on hard courts when I usually
had last few years very good summer on clay. This year I was a little bit struggling, so I
didn't really expect that I can do such a good result here, especially on hard court which
is not my favorite surface. It's just the best feeling. 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT