US OPEN
September 7, 1999
Slava Dosedel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Can you talk about what happened when you made that comeback? 

SLAVA DOSEDEL: Yeah, I mean even before match, I knew was going to be more a mental
match than the game. Yes, I told myself just to keep all the time focused and don't give
up any chance, any point, and I think it was -- I just kept fighting and I come back. 

Q. Are you surprised to be in the quarterfinals of the US Open? 

SLAVA DOSEDEL: Of course. (Laughing). It's not -- quarterfinals, is actually my first
time. So, yeah, I'm surprised and I'm very happy about it. 

Q. Why did you play no tournaments on the hardcourts in the run up to the US Open? 

SLAVA DOSEDEL: Because I like red clay the most. And if I play too many tournaments on
hardcourt, I'm scared that I get injured. And it's very difficult for me because I like
tennis more on clay because it's more tactic games. I can do more with the ball and more
is tactic. So I like it much more. 

Q. Even now?

SLAVA DOSEDEL: Even now, yes. 

Q. Can you talk -- you probably told this story before, but can you talk about why you
had that smiley face on your racquet? 

SLAVA DOSEDEL: Because I'm always looking to the strings. I put them back to the right
position, and I like to be positive. I try to be positive in my life, so if I look in the
racquet, it's making me a little bit better mood. 

Q. So it's sort of superstitious a little bit? 

SLAVA DOSEDEL: Kind of yeah, also. 

Q. You play a very attacking game. Even on clay, you serve-and-volley a lot. Sort of
goes against the accepted wisdom on clay that you stay at the back, and on fast courts you
go forward. Is there a reason why you serve-and-volley so much, even on slow surfaces? 

SLAVA DOSEDEL: I used to be much more defensive player. I used to play from the back,
trying to get longer rallies. But when the years go, I try to make the point a little
faster so I don't give up so many, so much energy. And also, I was working last four years
with Coach Petr Hutka who told me to be more aggressive and to do more points on the net
and try to win the points myself. 

Q. A lot of the top seeds have either pulled out with injuries or been upset. When that
happens do you think, "This is my chance?"

SLAVA DOSEDEL: That's why I don't play too much on hardcourt. Injuries comes with this
surface. 

Q. Did you think when you saw those players go down that this is a good chance for you
to make a move and get into a quarter? 

SLAVA DOSEDEL: Of course. If Pete Sampras was playing against me today, I would have
had less chances. 

Q. Can you talk a bit about the film you made, your career as a film star? 

SLAVA DOSEDEL: Yeah, I mean, it was very entertainment for me, because it took me only
five days; and every one of those days was something else to do. And I played tennis my
whole life, so I tried to do something else and it was very funny. I liked it very much.
It was a good team; they were helping me a lot because I'm not really professional actor.
So it was a little fun.

Q. Has the film come out? Has it been released? 

SLAVA DOSEDEL: It's coming on 3rd of October, the premiere, in Czech Republic.

Q. So will you be recognized on the streets even more than you are now after the 3rd of
October? 

SLAVA DOSEDEL: Yeah, I think so. But I mean, of course the quarterfinal of US Open is
much more prestige. 

Q. What's the film about? 

SLAVA DOSEDEL: It's about the guy who lived 200 years ago. It's his anniversary, born
200 years ago. And he was born, like, in 80s, physiotherapy, doctor. He was treating with
a holistic style of life. A lot of working exercises, and good eating, and like water
treatment. So that's why the character suits me a lot, because I'm seven years vegetarian,
and I like that lifestyle and I like nature a lot. So that's why it suit me so much. 

Q. How did it happen?

SLAVA DOSEDEL: Because of the guy that wrote the movie, he saw me on some interview in
TV and he said, "That's him."

Q. Did you have a hard time remembering your lines, or was that pretty easy? 

SLAVA DOSEDEL: I had to learn on the tournaments, I was always trying to get the
dialogues every night with my coach. So we were working on it every day. But when the
movie came, I mean the shooting, it was the guy would always try to change some words in
the dialogue, so it was not that easy. But, as I said, he helped me a lot through it. 

Q. What's the name of the movie? Can you translate it into English? 

SLAVA DOSEDEL: Yeah. "Life Water". Because the doctor was treating -- the
physio was treating people with water. So it's like cold and hot water, change, mixing. So
that's the name. 

Q. And the name of the character you play? 

SLAVA DOSEDEL: Vincent Sprietznitz (ph). That's his name. It's on the calendar of
UNESCO, like anniversary. So it's quite big in the Czech Republic. Because he was born in
Czech Republic, actually in the mountains, where I like to stay a lot. I bought a house
there, and I'm thinking about living there. 

Q. In the Czech Republic? 

SLAVA DOSEDEL: Yeah, Czech Republic. 

Q. Can you just talk about Rusedski, if you meet him in the next round, what sort of
threat will he give you? 

SLAVA DOSEDEL: You think he's going to win? 

Q. Maybe. 

SLAVA DOSEDEL: Yeah? 

Q. If he does win. 

SLAVA DOSEDEL: I never played him, so I -- of course I saw a lot of matches from him
and what was the question? I didn't hear. 

Q. What sort of threats will he pose to you, his game? 

SLAVA DOSEDEL: What sort of? 

Q. Threats. 

SLAVA DOSEDEL: I don't understand. 

Q. What tactics will you have to employ against him? 

SLAVA DOSEDEL: What tactics against Greg? Is quite simply, just to break him once in
the set. That's all. 

Q. Can you tell us who, after your match, you went up in the crowd and kind of embraced
someone, or a couple people. Could you tell us who that was. 

SLAVA DOSEDEL: Yeah, I mean I have quite a big support here. I stay with family in Long
Island already, last eight years. So it's like feeling like home. I don't like to stay in
a hotel every tournament, is boring and I'm alone there so it's not too much fun. But they
support me every match, and they are good friends. 

Q. Was it your coach also, or was it just --?

SLAVA DOSEDEL: Yeah, of course. My coach and my manager. 

Q. You say you don't like many hardcourt tournaments, but are you worried about playing
five matches, maybe six, maybe seven? 

SLAVA DOSEDEL: No, I'm not worried at all. Right now I'm enjoying the moment, and I'm
looking forward. 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT