THE 148TH OPEN
July 19, 2019
Shubhankar Sharma
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Talk about the round.  
SHUBHANKAR SHARMA: A little bit disappointed.  But again, I'm happy the way I played the last 36 holes.  I was very calm on the course.  I played decent.  Today a few -- I hit a few shots that I didn't want to and dropped a few shots on the back nine.  But it's all part of the game.   
I'm pretty happy with where I am.   
 Q.  It seemed like that you were hitting the ball just fine.  
SHUBHANKAR SHARMA: I was hitting it good.  I was hitting it good.  But just the back nine I missed a small putt for birdie on the 11th.  I had seven or eight feet down the hill.  And I hit the bunker on the 12th with a tee shot.  And then I was trying to advance it like 80 yards and it hit the lip and came back in.  I made bogey there.  Those two holes took the wind out of my sail.   
After that it was just the last two holes.  I gave myself opportunities but it wasn't really rolling the ball the way I wanted on the greens.  It's always tough.   
Other than that I think I played pretty good.   
 Q.  The weekend seems to be secure, but you don't seem to be satisfied.  
SHUBHANKAR SHARMA: It's all right.  I'm happy that I've secured the weekend but I feel like I'm playing well.  And I could have gone lower today.  But again, there's 36 holes left.  It's a clean start again, and I'll try and do my best on the weekend.   
 Q.  Talk to us about the 12th.  
SHUBHANKAR SHARMA: Yeah, the 12th, just a miscalculation.  Yesterday I hit a good driver and it was short of the bunker and I ended laying up with a 3-wood.  It was hurting a bit, but it wasn't as much as I thought it was, and the ball kept running and went into the bunker.  Could have definitely been a birdie, because I was hitting it good, I could definitely have gotten on the green from there.  That's how golf was.   
 Q.  Can you talk about 1, 4, and 12, the driver cost you?  
SHUBHANKAR SHARMA: A 3-wood.  Not really.  It was just bad.  1st and the 4th.  1st just pulled it.  4th wasn't that bad, just the wind took it a little bit and went in the bunker.  And 12th I hit a good shot where I wanted to.  It was just a miscalculation on my part.  So I lost three shots there.  But it was just some misjudgment.   
 Q.  Talk about the birdies.  
SHUBHANKAR SHARMA: On the second hole I hit a good drive and good 3-wood about 25 feet and made two putts.  The next birdie was on the 6th.  5-iron to about 10, 12 feet, good birdie there, as well.  Then the very next hole, driver, 2-iron to about 40, 45 feet, just on the green.  Made two-putt from there.  And then I think that was the last birdie.  Yeah, that was the last birdie of the day.   
 Q.  Can you talk about the experience.  
SHUBHANKAR SHARMA: It was fun.  There wasn't too much pressure.  We all had fun.  The pace was good.  There was no problem at all playing, it was a lot of fun.  I really enjoyed it.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
SHUBHANKAR SHARMA: Definitely.  Koepka obviously is the world No. 1 and Oosthuizen has been around a very long time.  Both major champions.  There's always something to learn playing with players like them.   
Definitely just to be playing with them was an honor and we had a lot of fun.   
 Q.  Did you pick up any tips they shared?  
SHUBHANKAR SHARMA: Not really.  Not on the golf course.  You don't really talk about that.  Everyone is kind of busy with their own game.  But it was just fun playing with them.  When we would talk, you rarely talk about golf.  It was stuff other than golf you talk about.   
 Q.  I presume you're going to the range after this.  What will you work on?  
SHUBHANKAR SHARMA: I'll do some putting.  I wasn't really rolling it the way I was yesterday on the back nine.  I was kind of tentative and didn't really have the right speed on the greens.  I think I have to do some work on the greens.   
Other than that I don't have much to do with the driving and 3-woods.  I still have to hit a few iron shots just to dial them in.  But other than that I thought I played pretty well.  Just a few putts here and there.  That's all.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT