WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2008
Stephen Poole
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Nice round.
 STEPHEN POOLE: Thank you.

 Q. You won the qualifier; is that correct?
 STEPHEN POOLE: I did.

 Q. Did you go to Clemson?
 STEPHEN POOLE: I did. Graduated in May of '06. I've been playing on the mini tours, kind of back and forth between Hooters and others.
 Been playing alright this year. Couple of Top-10s, Top-5s, but tried Q-School, made it to -- made it through first stage my first year and ended up making the second stage this past December and missed it by two shots. That was kind of a bummer but kept the momentum going and kept playing.

 Q. Do you live around here?
 STEPHEN POOLE: I live in Aiken, South Carolina. Came out for the qualifier. I had plans to go to Dothan if I didn't make it and play in the Hooters event in Dothan so I got -- I had to call them and unfortunately that's how it was.
 Yeah, it's been a good week.

 Q. So now have you played in a Tour event?
 STEPHEN POOLE: I played up in Raleigh. Played well. I think I finished Top 44 but, you know, it was a great experience and this is an unbelievable experience out here.

 Q. What has this week been like? I see your mom is here.
 STEPHEN POOLE: My mom is here, my dad and my sister are coming up this afternoon and my wife is coming up this afternoon, also. It's been a dream. It's great. Unbelievable learning experience. 
 Just to be out here and -- Nationwide event, they had some fans but nothing like out here. It's really awesome. I enjoy it.

 Q. Can you pinch yourself?
 STEPHEN POOLE: I had to a little bit. When I was walking down -- I can't remember what hole it was, might have been, what is that 15, the par 5, I actually holed out for eagle from the fairway. I was walking up to that green I kind of had to pinch my arm a little bit and make sure I was still awake.

 Q. It's a great round.
 STEPHEN POOLE: Yeah. I played well. It was pretty nerve-wracking there the first few holes. I managed to calm myself down. The last hole I kind of hit a bad tee shot and -- wish I could have that back. Overall I played great. I need to go work on a driver a little bit. I only hit one fairway with it. But, you know, I played good. I enjoyed it.

 Q. How is it since the beginning of the day to tee off?
 STEPHEN POOLE: Really, the first tee shot was the most nerve-wracking. I had to take a couple deep breaths. After I come off the tee box I got back to my mental game and focus and I really didn't have any problems.

 Q. Well, I guess it gave you a lot of confidence.
 STEPHEN POOLE: Yeah, ton of confidence. This is great for me. I can't wait to get out here tomorrow.

 Q. Thank you very much.
 STEPHEN POOLE: Thank you.

 Q. Good luck tomorrow. 
 STEPHEN POOLE: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT