NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: NATIONALS VS CARDINALS
October 12, 2019
José Martinez
Tommy Edman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How hard is it for you not to get to play more now you're pinch hitting? They use you in big spots, but you're not going to see the field very much, it doesn't look like.  
JOSÉ MARTINEZ: It's not hard at all because like I said before, this has been my role since the first day of spring training, actually. I'm just there enjoying my job and I know what I have to do out there and if it's an opportunity for the skipper to get me in the lineup it will be great, but for right now my main job is coming off the bench and try to just get some good at-bats.   
 Q.  For both of you, what challenges does an at-bat against Scherzer present and is it difficult to face a guy like that the day after you faced a guy who was throwing 66?  
TOMMY EDMAN: Yeah, I mean facing Scherzer and Sanchez, I mean it's kind of really the same approach, you are really just trying to get a pitch over the middle of the plate and not chase his pitches. Obviously Scherzer is going to come at you, he's got great stuff and we're very excited for that challenge.   
JOSÉ MARTINEZ: He's a good pitcher so you just got to pick a spot and just try to do damage in the strike zone. It's Max Scherzer, so just got to go out there and try our best to beat him.   
 Q.  For both of you guys, has there been any talk among the players that the ball isn't traveling as far as it did in the regular season?  
TOMMY EDMAN: No, I don't really think so, not really, I haven't noticed any difference in the ball, have you?   
JOSÉ MARTINEZ: I don't think so. I think it's just, I mean the ball is not going -- when you hit the ball it's going to go out, it's going to go out. For us it's nothing like we got to talk about that at all.   
TOMMY EDMAN: I would say yesterday it was just a matter of it being a little bit colder out and to have a day where it doesn't travel as much, maybe just the weather changing.   
 Q.  Tommy, until this playoffs you haven't been playing much outfield lately. Do you take extra balls here and especially in Washington where you haven't played outfield at all will you do a lot of work there tomorrow to see what that's like?  
TOMMY EDMAN: Yeah, of course I'll make sure to do that, just kind of get the reads and see what the wind's doing, bounces off the ball, I'm sure I'll get all that prep work in.   
 Q.  Can you describe what the mood, the vibe is like of the team this morning, the guys you've interacted with so far?  
JOSÉ MARTINEZ: Do you feel any difference today?   
TOMMY EDMAN: No.   
JOSÉ MARTINEZ: I don't think it's any difference. I think we know what we're capable of doing and we're in the playoffs and we're going to face the best of the best, so that means I don't think we're going to have -- we're not going to put pressure on ourselves or whatever. So, like I said, go out there and try to hit mistakes and try to get on base, that's the main thing.   
 Q.  Tommy, you're a guy who, the stolen bases and the speed on the bases is a big part of your game. That scenario where maybe the Nationals haven't been as successful at suppressing that in the past. If your offense isn't going maybe as hot as you guys want it to how much of a change can that make in that game plan and how much can that do to spark that offense?  
TOMMY EDMAN: That's kind of a big part of our offense, has been all year, is just kind of causing trouble on the bases. Obviously when you're going up against great pitchers like the Nationals have it can make a huge difference.   
 Q.  Over the years how much experience have you had facing Sánchez? Winter ball, etcetera, etcetera?  
JOSÉ MARTINEZ: I don't think I faced him in winter ball, but I think I had a couple at-bats in spring training actually last year I got a couple when he was with the Braves and actually I got a start when he pitched over in Washington. But like I said, he's a good pitcher and he knows what he's doing out there, especially in postseason. I mean he has good numbers in postseason, and I mentioned that to Joe, actually, and, I mean, he did well and, I mean, for us it's a new day today and trying to get us a W today.   
 Q.  Tommy, some guys play a whole career and don't make it to the postseason. You're getting to enjoy this experience in your first year as a big leaguer, can you talk about what this year has been like for you and how much fun is it being involved in this type of a thing?  
TOMMY EDMAN: Yeah, absolutely. I feel like I've been very blessed this year to have this opportunities, especially my first year, just to be able to come to the postseason with such a great group of guys and have the success that we have had so far. Kind of going to be able to a little bit spoiled now, now that this has been my first year, kind of expect this every year now. But, yeah, we know what a special experience this is.   
 Q.  If you could reflect on the long road you've had in professional baseball, the opportunity you got here and how you've taken advantage of that opportunity.  
TOMMY EDMAN: Since I got here, just when you're playing with Yadier Molina and Adam Wainwright in the same clubhouse you got the mentality that you got to go out there and win. And for me just to have fun with this group of guys is amazing. I think that's my second family, actually, I spend more time with them than my actual family in Venezuela and just go out there and help and make them feel like that it's all right out there and just try to root for them the most I can. When it's a part of my job to just go out there and try to do my best to help the team, I will do it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT