BREEDERS' CUP WORLD CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 7, 2009
Freddy Head
Olivier Peslier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ERIC WING: You now have achieved the accomplishment that your trainer Freddy Head achieved 25 years or so ago. Back-to-back Breeders' Cup Mile wins as a jockey. Were you concerned at all going in about the outside post position and the potential to lose a lot of ground?   
 OLIVIER PESLIER: So wonderful for Freddy, because he won the Breeders' Cup when he was a jockey, and now we win the Breeders' Cup with the trainer and next time the owner.   
 So for today having draw 11 is not easy compared to last time. And I don't want to fight too early like the Prix de L'Opera in France because of the draw on the outside. And last time we do the preparation race. And today Freddy told me how to ride, and I said I can't start well because if I'm too on the bridle, she no respiration, and she's one way, and maybe she's dead before the last turn. And I prefer to just stay quiet, see what's happen, and see what's happen after the turn. And she's very kind. She's very relaxed. And just for the base.   
 On the turn I just see the pace maker is very far. But anyway, I just thinking, you know, the fast pace. I leave a chance, and for sure my filly finish well.   
 When she is very relaxed, always she finish well. For the last turn and I have two possibilities, outside or inside. And also outside you can follow the pace, and I'm going to stay in. And I see Frankie just moving well. And I just come through to the middle. After that I don't want to stay really on the rail. I just go straight to the outside. Because if I follow the pace inside maybe I have no place to go, too many horses, and I want plenty place.   
 For sure she's coming very fast. And everybody she thinks she's winning. Very easy. After that I leave a chance. I don't fight straightaway. I leave a chance, and afterwards she's well and after, come back.   
 ERIC WING: Questions from either upstairs in the press box or in the room.   
  
  Q. She seemed very, not anxious, but very, very eager in the walking ring in the Paddock to go. She seemed very eager before the race. Maybe two minutes to post, she seemed to get very quiet. Is that her normal behavior?   
 FREDDY HEAD: Yes, she moved with the head, you know. She play like that. It's like her voice is normal. I don't want to take a pony, because the pony we never use in Europe. I'm just little bit afraid if you have a pony she's upset. I don't want chance she get anything.   
 After that compared to last year she came very well in. And we have a problem little bit Prix de la Foret. And the man is coming and he talk in her ear, and after she's well. After that, when she's on the gate she's quiet.   
 But the rest she's always she's moving, and she's like not really exciting, just they can move anywhere, and after the one fight just leave the bridle, and then leave it.   
  
  Q. I want to compliment you on a magical ride. Very difficult trip. You kept your cool, did not panic at all. A magnificent ride, congratulations.   
 OLIVIER PESLIER: Thank you. But the trainer tell me after I know my job. I know my filly. And after you see what's happened. And when you ride the horse and you know if you give a white card, you take your decision. You ride for the horse. You don't ride for the trainer who says you start well fifth or fourth, depends on the race. The race is the race case by case. And afterwards you see what's happened.   
 ERIC WING: Congratulations. Great job, hope to see you back here with Goldikova.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT