NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: LIGHTNING v RANGERS
May 19, 2015
Ondrej Palat
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Victor Hedman, what have you seen since you've been here with him and how has game his kind of grown and evolved over the last few years?   
ONDREJ PALAT:   Oh, he's just a leader.   He's the kind of defenseman that every team needs and wants.   His big body, he can skate.   He's just an overall great player, and it's good to have him on the team.   He's a true leader.  
   
 Q.   Your power play, did you get surprised how streaky it can be and then you guys shoot for 30 against Detroit for 25 chances and you get 15 goals in the last (No Microphone) games or whatever it is?   
ONDREJ PALAT:   Yeah, I don't know.   Against Detroit we had some good looks, but it just didn't go in.   Sometimes it's like that.   Sometimes you have a good chance and you don't score, and sometimes those bounces like we had against Montreal and against New York, and it's good.  
   
 Q.   Talk about his speed and his skill, but talk about his smarts too and his savvy on the ice?  
ONDREJ PALAT:   Who?   
   
 Q.   Johnny?  
ONDREJ PALAT:   Oh, Johnny, oh, I don't know.   Yeah, I played with him, this is my fourth year, he's just a great player.   Like I said about Hedy, he's a leader too.   It's unbelievable how he has a small size, but his big heart and plays with a big heart.   He's just awesome to watch.  
   
 Q.   You guys come back here with a momentum shift on your side, and obviously the two games at home.   Could you sense anything watching the Rangers and see it in their eyes that they're a little nervous after a game like that?   
ONDREJ PALAT:   Yeah, it's nice to go back to Tampa with 1‑1 in the series.   We just need to improve and not play like we did in the first game.   It wasn't good for us, and we've proven we can play like we did in the second.  
   
 Q.   There have been games where you had a really big win on the road in the playoffs and maybe you had a letdown the next game where you didn't play to your level?   Is that something you have to learn at this point in your career?   
ONDREJ PALAT:   Yeah, for sure.   We struggled a little bit.   We need to play every game like it's a Game 7.   Hopefully we're going to do that tomorrow and for the rest of the series.  
   
 Q.   How much has your coach changed, if at all, since you played for him in the AHL?   Is he pretty much the same?   
ONDREJ PALAT:   I think so.   Coop is‑‑ I don't know, Coop is always the same.   He's calm, and he's a great coach.   I just like to play under him.  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT