WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2006
Jamie Delgado
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT










 Q.  You were two up, then two all. 
 JAMIE DELGADO:  Yeah, I played really well for the first two sets, and then I thought I just sort of eased off a little bit in the third, or towards the end.  The combination of me doing that and him upping it a little bit got it back to two sets all. 

 Q.  How come?  
 JAMIE DELGADO:  I just think I sort of realized that I was that far in front and maybe getting close to winning and maybe just stopped concentrating on what had got me to that position in the match. 
 And definitely by the fifth set I was back on concentrating on what I was trying to do out there more than thinking, you know, winning and losing, stuff like that. 

 Q.  This is the third time you got to the second round in the last eight years.  You can push on. 
 JAMIE DELGADO:  Yeah, I don't know who I play.  I'm feeling good in my game. 

 Q.  Grosjean. 
 JAMIE DELGADO:  Did he win, did he? 

 Q.  Yeah, I think so. 
 JAMIE DELGADO:  Yeah, I mean, I got to concentrate on myself.  I'm feeling good with my game and the way it's going.  I'm really looking forward to giving it a go, yeah. 

 Q.  How much did you know about him before you played? 
 JAMIE DELGADO:  I actually played him about two or three years ago, somewhere.  I beat him there.  He's improved a lot, moved up in the rankings, and he's been playing well.  I knew it was gonna be a tough match, but I was also confident I could win. 

 Q.  Did you think it would be a good start, him making his debut, he might be nervous early on? 
 JAMIE DELGADO:  Yeah, you know, you try and get a good start in every match you play.  But he's -- I saw his results in the qualifying and he was winning his matches easily there.  I knew it was gonna be a tough match. 
 Like I say, I was just trying to play my game as much as I could. 

 Q.  Do you feel there's still time for you to get back up to a respectable ranking? 
 JAMIE DELGADO:  Yeah, I mean, that's why I'm playing.  You know, if I stay fit and healthy and working on the right things, I still got a good few years where I can still achieve a lot in the game.  From that point of view, I'm still as excited as before. 

 Q.  Do you feel fitter and stronger? 
 JAMIE DELGADO:  Yeah, I mean, the last sort of couple of years I've actually been having problems with my back and that, but I've been working hard on that.  Right now it feels great.  My body's feeling better than it was a couple years ago. 

 Q.  This is very much a home tournament for you, isn't it?  You live nearby. 
 JAMIE DELGADO:  Yeah, no, I love it. 

 Q.  This is pretty much walking to the courts, is it? 
 JAMIE DELGADO:  I don't walk, but, I mean, I could do. 
 Yeah, it's a tournament I look forward to all the time and prepare for, which I have done quite a lot for, starting off with the playoff tournament I had to play.  I feel like I'm in good shape to play well here. 

 Q.  Does that make it even more disappointing, the fact you haven't sort of gone beyond the sort of second round? 
 JAMIE DELGADO:  You know, I mean, I've played some good -- I've had some tough matches here.  I've played some big guys here.  From that point of view, the draw I had this year was a better one for me. 
 But, you know, if I can play well, I can beat guys here. 

 Q.  At least we've got another Brit in the second round. 
 JAMIE DELGADO:  Yeah, I'm looking forward to it.  I'll probably relax a bit tomorrow and get ready for Thursday.  No, I'm looking forward to it. 

 Q.  Do you get upset when people sort of talk about the "Brave Brits"?  Does it get on the players' nerves? 
 JAMIE DELGADO:  I think maybe a bit earlier in my career I used to take a bit more notice of it.  It used to get on me a bit.  I'm a bit older now.  I'm doing what I can do, doing the best I can do, and that's all I sort of care about really. 

 Q.  You played Grosjean many times? 
 JAMIE DELGADO:  I actually lost to him here the first time I got second round here.  That's the only time I've played him. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT