WIMBLEDON
June 24, 2002
Jamie Delgado
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Who would like to start? 
 
 
Q.  As disappointment goes, that must be up there?
 
JAMIE DELGADO:  Yeah, totally gutted.  Fought as hard as I could, just came so close.  And I felt for a while I was going to turn it around and win it.  Very disappointing.  
 
Q.  What was the difference in the end? 
 
JAMIE DELGADO:  I mean, in that game where I served for the match, I missed a couple of approach shots, but not by much.  Maybe not quite as aggressive as I had been to get myself in that position.  But I think there were sort of small things that on another day I could have won.  Obviously, he came up with a couple good shots.  That was it.  You know, I think he played some good points, as well, in that game.  
 
Q.  Did it come down to temperament at all?  Was that a factor? 
 
JAMIE DELGADO:  No.  I mean, I felt like the momentum was with me at that time, obviously - having turned it around, got myself in that position.  I think it's one of those things that I didn't close it out.  I didn't miss sitting duck, smashes on top of the net sort of thing.  Like I say, maybe took five percent off my aggressive side and he maybe loosened up, as well.  So it just tilted it his way, I think.  
 
Q.  He plays Barry Cowan next.  Are you going to pass any tips on to Barry?
 
JAMIE DELGADO:  Yeah, obviously a different match for him.  Being a lefty is different stuff.  But, yeah, I mean, he's watched him in the Davis Cup here, as well.  He'll have a good idea already of Nicolas.  But, yeah, I'll tell him what I think, yeah. 
 
Q.  What was going through your mind when you were so far down in the third set?  Was it "Nothing to lose, go for it"?
 
JAMIE DELGADO:  For a couple sets, I didn't play too well, not serving too well.  Then I started to serve better.  I kept thinking, if I could keep holding on to my serve, you never know, might get a chance.  I was getting a few half chances, but not going my way.  I just felt if I could get that third set, I would have a chance.  You know, I knew I could play better than I was.  If I could pick it up a little, you know, sneak that third out, I thought I could go all the way and win it.  
 
Q.  And when you had all those match points? 
 
JAMIE DELGADO:  I mean, I had one on his service game.  Played a good game from there.  But obviously on my serve, I was 40-15.  He actually made two first serves on those points.  One of them, I didn't play a bad point, I don't think.  He took a chance, came in and sort of put it down the line.  On the other one, he made a good return, I thought.  You know, obviously looking back now, I might have done something different.  But, you know, I don't think I played points too badly. 
 
Q.  How does that rate in sickness for you?  It takes a good player to get you out of here at Wimbledon.  I'm thinking of Agassi last year, Rafter the year before. 
 
JAMIE DELGADO:  This is the most disappointing because come so close.  I think these sort of ones obviously hurt you more because you feel you could have, should have won the match.  I'll be replaying it in my mind, no doubt, those match points, you know, what could I have done different.  But I don't think I did too much wrong.  It was just one of those things, I think.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT