WIMBLEDON
June 28, 2001
Jamie Delgado
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  First question, please. 


Q.  Did you ever feel you were really in it? 

JAMIE DELGADO:  Second set maybe I felt like I was getting into it, and a couple of half chances.  So in the second set I probably felt like I had the most chance.  But against somebody as good as that, those half chances you have to take. 

Q.  And how is the experience for you? 

JAMIE DELGADO:  Great.  I never played on Centre or 1 here.  So to play on there against someone as good as Agassi was, yeah, I enjoyed it a lot.  It was good. 

Q.  Andre was talking about how it's a case of belief in him is very important.  He has to have the confidence.  A lot of the time you were having very good rallies with him.  Do you think that possibly was the difference between the two of you, that he just has that confidence and that belief? 

JAMIE DELGADO:  Yeah, I mean it was -- you know, that comes from winning all the tournaments that he's won and everything he's achieved.  Obviously, anyone he plays, he probably feels that he should win.  When you do play someone as good as that, someone like me at the moment, you're trying to maybe press a little bit too much and go for a few shots that you wouldn't normally go for. So on that side, he's obviously more comfortable than I am. 

Q.  Do you think it's something you can develop?

JAMIE DELGADO:  Yeah, if I keep working on my game.  I saw some good signs there that I could, you know, play some good stuff against someone that good.  You know, the better I get at it, the more chances I'll get to play these top players.  You know, you beat them once or twice and, obviously, confidence will come with that. 

Q.  Can you give us some idea about what the facilities are like on the satellites and challenger tours?  Martin Lee was saying that he played in courts in Asia where they don't have any lines and he's been practising and stayed at bad hotels.  Is it any different on these tours?

JAMIE DELGADO:  Yeah, fortunately I haven't played satellites for a few years.  But life on the satellite is, in certain countries, is poor, hotels, food.  I mean, you know, when you talk about Wimbledon, this is the premiere tournament in the world, so it's  -- there's obviously a big difference here.

Q.  Is it difficult to prepare for something like Wimbledon when you're not used to the conditions here and not used to the... 

JAMIE DELGADO:  No, I mean, it's a massive tournament that we all, you know, all year long we look forward to this time.  So it's a time where we really enjoy it.  I've played it a few times so I'm used to playing here now. 

Q.  First set you held your serve pretty convincingly to start with.  Then you had a break point on his second service game.  Then I think you held to love.  Were you kind of feeling an exhilaration at that point?  Did you feel,  "I can do this"? 

JAMIE DELGADO:  I was happy with the way I started.  I possibly, first few games, started better than him.  Against someone like that that returns that well, it is important that you hold on the first few games.  So that stage, yeah, I was happy with the way I started. 

Q.  What will you be able to take from that game both in terms of playing one of the world's greats and playing on one of the world's great arenas on the rest of the tour that will help you the rest of the year? 

JAMIE DELGADO:  The things that he does really well are things I'm trying to work on - staying up the court, taking (inaudible) away from your opponents.  He does that probably best in the world and doesn't make errors with it.   Just to play against him and see how he does it is a big bonus for me.  I just have to keep working on that.  You know, I felt like at times I played well, hung in the rallies well and attacked him.  You just got to maintain that over a long period of time, which he's obviously comfortable doing.

Q.  Was Barry's match in the back of your mind at all?

JAMIE DELGADO:  When I played today? 

Q.  Yeah. 

JAMIE DELGADO:  No, I obviously saw how he performed.  I would have loved to perform like he did going into a match like he did.  But not during the match I wasn't thinking about Barry.

Q.  He was trying to get a hold of you before the match.  Did he give you any advice?

JAMIE DELGADO:  No, just his encouragement really.  Sampras and Agassi are really two completely different players.  But obviously, you got  -- on a court like that, against someone like that, you got to try and relax as soon as you can and play your game, which I thought I did reasonably well. 

Q.  You played pretty well today but didn't get much change out of Andre.  Considering Pete's struggle last night, do you think Andre looks a better bet this year? 

JAMIE DELGADO:  It's tough to tell in the early rounds.  All I know is that, you know, Andre is playing very well.  You know, he's obviously  -- I mean, you got to put Pete as a favourite, obviously, with his record here.  But I think Andre is a very close second.  You know, his form has been a lot better than Pete's this year, so it's -- you know, maybe he is the favourite.  I don't know.

Q.  Would your money be on him? 

JAMIE DELGADO:  Yeah.  I mean, he's the best returner in the game, and, you know, he stands a very good chance. 

Q.  Why do you think Pete actually struggled last night, whereas Andre didn't today? 

JAMIE DELGADO:  I mean, I think just maybe Pete made a few more errors than Andre.  Andre doesn't give much away.  When I'm serving against Andre, he's, you know, he fights.  Every point is a big point to him.  He doesn't give anything away, whereas Pete can give you some cheap points off returns.  But, you know, Pete's obviously very hard to beat as well. 

Q.  Inevitably all the poor Brits are having their cars, old bangers they drive, compared with Leer jet-flying superstars.  What do you drive?

JAMIE DELGADO:  Rover. 

Q.  Oh, not bad.  Old one? 

JAMIE DELGADO:  400. 

Q.  What reg? 

JAMIE DELGADO:  I think it's N.  I'm not sure actually.  I should know, but...

Q.  If it's down to Henman or Rusedski flying the flag, do you see either of them going further? 

JAMIE DELGADO:  I mean, Tim's in Sampras' quarter, I think.  So that's obviously going to be a tough match. I think both of them have got a great chance, I think, this year.  Possibly I'd favour Greg's draw than Tim's.  But Tim's had more success here than Greg over the last few years.  Both of them are playing well.  I don't know who to pick to do better.  I would prefer Greg's draw than Tim's.  But who knows.  It's a tough one to call. 

Q.  Andre said after the game, "It doesn't matter who I'm playing, I've got great respect for everybody." But he said he still gets stressed out before every game.  Did you notice that today? 

JAMIE DELGADO:  Yeah, I mean, I was obviously very impressed with him, with his attitude towards the match.  You know, obviously I'm ranked a lot lower than him but he was still fighting for every point and, you know, didn't look like he took anything for granted.  He was trying to  -- he was concentrating very hard and was there to beat me as comfortably as he could.  I think it's a great quality that he's got. 

Q.  Is it a disappointment that, again, it's Henman and Rusedski flying the flag at this next stage in the tournament and that none of the other British players have managed to sort of break through that extra round or that extra couple of days or whatever? 

JAMIE DELGADO:  Yeah, you always want to do as well as you can.  Unfortunately, we've all drawn the big guys in the second round.  You know, personally, for me, I had a good win against Medvedev in the first round, lost to Agassi who could possibly win it.  So, it's a pretty tough draw I think this year.  Obviously, you do want to do as well as you can.  The draws are quite important with that as well. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT