IRISH OPEN PRESENTED BY DISCOVER IRELAND
July 28, 2011
Alexandre Kaleka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   ALEXANDRE KALEKA: It was real special, I had a good streak, I think four, five birdies in a row. The last one was on the par 5. It was not that hard because I had a 6-iron to the green. 
 The other ones, I had three on the par 4s, so I'm really pleased to have done that.

 Q. What is your best run of birdies in succession? 
 ALEXANDRE KALEKA: Honestly I don't know. If it's five, it's probably today, yeah. On Tour, yeah. 

 Q. Presumably once the third one went in you were smiling and then the fourth one. And it just get better and better. 
 ALEXANDRE KALEKA: The crowd here is amazing, and know the golf really well and I appreciate it.

 Q. It's been a long day and you're in one of the last groups, but still stayed around the 18th and applauded a wonderful day. 
 ALEXANDRE KALEKA: Yeah, there's a lot of kids. I'm really impressed to see so many kids around the greens. I guess they want to get some balls, that's what I guess. But there is still a lot of people around the course. Even if we are late, so no, it's good. 

 Q. And they seem to know their golf as well?
 ALEXANDRE KALEKA: It's cool, because sometimes you hit a good shot, it's not specially close to the pin, but they say, yeah, it's a really good shot, a good-looking shot.

 Q. And did you feel that those birdies were coming? You played well presumably on the front nine and just didn't make as many?
 ALEXANDRE KALEKA: No, no, I just hit a lot of good drives, and then I had a short iron, so it's easier. But I really putted well today. That's the big difference. 

 Q. You talk about the boys; you're not long out of boyhood yourself. Are you getting more and more experienced out here, more and more at home?
 ALEXANDRE KALEKA: Yeah, I'm only pro since 2009, so I'm learning every day, especially on the Tour. I played well the first part of the season and you learn a lot when you play better.

 Q. And you've had some very good rounds under your belt now and a couple of really nice tournaments?
 ALEXANDRE KALEKA: Exactly. Exactly. So I know that I can shoot low, but it's not the most important thing. Sometimes you have to shoot a decent score, 1- or 2-under, and without playing really well, that's the most important thing, yeah. But obviously I'm really pleased to play 6-under today, yeah. 

 Q. And I presume you like this place as a result, as well; a course that suits you?
 ALEXANDRE KALEKA: Yeah, I really like the course. It's very nice, the first four holes around the lake. The place is unbelievable. We are at the hotel just by the course. It's perfect. Fantastic. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT