NBA DRAFT
June 25, 2009
Brandon Jennings
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Brandon, talk about I know that you love to pass the ball and Milwaukee has some talent inside with Andrew and Villanueva, talk about how you look forward to playing with them. 
 BRANDON JENNINGS: I'm really excited about this. I went down there for a work-out and got there a little early and stayed for three days and got to see the city. It's not bad what everybody thinks. They re-signed Charlie, got Michael Redd get healthy, you might be able to see the Bucks in the playoffs again. 

 Q. Are you going to write a memoire on your experiences in Europe?
 BRANDON JENNINGS: I don't know right now. We'll see. 

 Q. Yesterday you talked about the journey. Given what you've been through, can you talk about how you're feeling?
 BRANDON JENNINGS: Just being overseas, you know, made me more humble. I was probably just a little upset to see the guys go before me. You know, it just made me more hungrier now. I can't wait until the Summer League starts and the regular season.

 Q. Is your agent Mr. Duffy?
 BRANDON JENNINGS: Yes, he is. 

 Q. I had seen a memo saying that you were not going to be here tonight; I guess the last man in the green room I guess is what he feared. But you're here; what was that all about?
 BRANDON JENNINGS: I flew in, with my family members, there were 20 of us, and I just felt like spending the time with them in this whole process because they have been there for me since day one. It was better to spend it with my family.

 Q. He was concerned that your stock was dropping; obviously it wasn't the case. 
 BRANDON JENNINGS: No, it wasn't, but you never want to chance it. 

 Q. Do you think you would have went higher had you played in college? Do you think you would have went maybe in the top five if you had gone to Arizona and put up huge numbers?
 BRANDON JENNINGS: Yeah, probably, but like I said, the experience that I have gotten over there, you know, you can't complain with that. I'm not really a rookie, but I am a rookie in the NBA. This is really my second year as being a pro. 
 I think I'm ready. I'm more ready than a lot of these other players. A lot of these other players have a lot to learn with the pro game, but I think I've got to down a little bit.

 Q. What did you learn specifically about your game in the past year playing in Europe? 
 BRANDON JENNINGS: Well, I changed a lot. My game was more mature now. I know how to run the pick-and-roll situation. I'm a lot tougher than I was before. In high school, you just run through everybody. But over there, you know, it's like life or death. So it's made me a stronger person. 

 Q. And do you think you're the best point guard in this Draft? 
 BRANDON JENNINGS: Yes, I do. Of course I do. You know, I have a lot of confidence in my game, and you know, we'll see. We'll see. That's all I've got to say. We'll see. 

 Q. Yesterday you talked about just the social and cultural growth that you had by going overseas, and you mentioned Jeremy Tyler. Obviously it's not for everyone, but would you say that a young man can mature and grow more so than going to college?
 BRANDON JENNINGS: Yes, a lot. You're with grown men every day, probably it you go over there, you're probably living by yourself so you have to mature faster.
 I think what Jeremy Tyler is doing is awesome, if he stays over there for two years, I guarantee he'll be the No. 1 pick in the NBA Draft, for sure, because he'll come out and be more mature and more developed and more ready than anybody else. 

 Q. Given that you were slipping, how surprised were you when you heard your name called as the tenth pick?
 BRANDON JENNINGS: Well, I was real surprised. When I worked out for the Bucks, it was one of my best workouts so far. A lot of top guards in that workout. 
 The coach there, he's a point guard, and, you know, I'm happy I got picked to the Bucks. 

 Q. Do you feel like you can create some kind of a bond with Bogut because he played overseas?
 BRANDON JENNINGS: I don't really know. I can't really answer that. All I can say is, we'll see. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT