NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 13, 2009
Yao Ming
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. There has been talk about discourse in the Rockets locker room. McGrady has been hurt and in tests has been hurt. What is the state -- status of your team now mentally?   
 YAO MING: We want to win of course. I can tell you, we are still very close.  
  
  Q. Are you disappointed how it has gone, a lot of people were projecting the Rockets could challenge the Lakers. You have McGrady, Artest, you have a very deep team. On paper, it looks like you should be a championship contender.   
 YAO MING: Like you said, we have a very deep team. I agree with that. A good team is not built in one day. We are not like the Celtics with a Big Three.   
 I think we will need some time.  
  
  Q. You need time, your team? You have been there a long time now in NBA terms. You have had injuries. You get the feeling that your time is -- you are getting a little anxious, you want to get there now?   
 YAO MING: I said as a team, we need time. Like you said, I have been through some injuries. But this year, I have only missed three games.  
  
  Q. This year you have been healthy. You don't want -- you don't want to waste that opportunity. That's why I said, maybe you are getting a little anxious. Allegedly, I speak English. So you are looking forward to succeeding?  
 YAO MING: Like I'm hungry to win?   
  
  Q. Yes.   
 YAO MING: I'm always like that. I'm always like that. I try to push myself, to play a game like the last game in my career, always like that.  
  
  Q. I covered Michael Jordan his whole career. As you get into the five years, six years he was always getting very anxious -- I use that word again -- looking forward to winning. You become a star in the league, a premiere player, you have that same feeling that I need to do anything right now to get a championship?  
 YAO MING: Obviously a championship is every player's goal.   
 Like you say -- what is that word again? Anxious. Yeah, I feel that way. That's why I'm so worried about the Rockets right now. We're not as good as we should be.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT