NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v BLACKHAWKS
June 2, 2013
Dustin Penner
Jarret Stoll
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   A day after, first game in two weeks, how do you feel? 
JARRET STOLL:   Fine.   Just looking forward to getting a win, helping the team win.   We came here to win one, maybe two.   We still have an opportunity to win one.   We got to play a lot better than we did last night. 

Q.   Dustin, what do you need to do early in the game here? 
DUSTIN PENNER:   We got better towards the third period.   We have to play like we did in the third period for 60 minutes.   They had their way with us in the first. 
We have to get the D go back, get bodies on them, get them in their own end. 

Q.   Jarret, do you feel you were chasing the puck a little too much last night?
JARRET STOLL:   Yeah.   Like Penn just said, time in their zone, lengthy shifts, three, four shifts in a row, didn't have that.   Didn't make Crawford work nearly as hard as we wanted to. 

Q.   Bryan Bickell said he modeled his game off of you.   What do you see from him?
DUSTIN PENNER:   He's improved over the last three, four years.   I remember him when I was in Edmonton.   You need big bodies and competitors in playoffs.   I think that's what he's brought to their team. 

Q.   Do you feel like this game might get a little more physical based on the last couple hits in the final minutes yesterday? 
DUSTIN PENNER:   Yeah, I think so.   I think we got to bring more physicality to the game than we did last time. 
They were on the perimeter passing pucks around.   Got to go through more of their players more often, make it tougher on them. 

Q.   Jarret, any thoughts as to why the team has struggled on the road as compared to a year ago when you couldn't lose on the road? 
JARRET STOLL:   Yeah, it's a weird thing.   I don't think you can pinpoint one or two things.   Seems like our offense on the road has struggled, scoring one goal, not more than two.   I don't know what that is. 
We got to find a way to win some games on the road if we want to keep our season going.   We know that.   Get a chance here tonight. 

Q.   Jarret, Chicago found success yesterday when they were able to crash the net, get the bodies in front.   For the centers, is there any more of a concerted effort to make sure Quick sees all the shots? 
JARRET STOLL:   We know that's going to be a game plan of any team we face now against our goaltender.   That's a job on the low forward and the two defensemen to clear guys out to make sure Quicky can see the pucks, just to make sure there's no second‑chance opportunities that they're going to get a stick on. 
Yeah, it's the job of everybody in the D zone to help out that way, especially around our net, make it tougher on them.   If they're going to get shots from the outside, that's one thing.   After that, that's it. 

Q.   Is there any difference in playing the back‑to‑back when it's on the road? 
JARRET STOLL:   The amount of time that elapses between games is less.   We have played back‑to‑back before.   For us it's nice because we get a quicker chance at redemption.   Don't have time to dwell on it. 
Reviewed video.   Playoffs is a time you're here to play the games.   Everything else, the media, the practices, the time between games, you don't care for.   When you're on the ice, it's the best part for us. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT