NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v COYOTES
May 22, 2012
Dustin Penner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Dustin Penner.   
   
 Q.   Other than maybe getting something out of power play, is there anything you think it's imperative to do different tonight?  
DUSTIN PENNER:   Get more traffic towards their goaltender.   Get second and third opportunities, not so many one‑chance‑and‑done kind of thing.   
   
 Q.   The power play, you've gotten this far without getting a whole lot from it.   To get something from it would obviously make life easier.   
DUSTIN PENNER:   Yeah, it would be nice.   
   
 Q.   Have you been listening to John Tortorella (laughter)?   
DUSTIN PENNER:   You just rephrased the first question a different way the second time, so...   (Laughter).   
   
 Q.   A lot of people talk about the power play struggling, but penalty killing is so good at this time of year.   Why is that?  
DUSTIN PENNER:   We put a lot of work into it as far as video and preparation.   Then the personnel we have on it, you know, understands what they need to do, what the other team is doing, how to counteract the other team's power play.   
As a group collectively, we hate to get scored on.  
   
 Q.   Everybody's penalty kill seems to be better.   Is that effort?  
DUSTIN PENNER:   It's focus and concentration, knowing what's at stake.   
   
 Q.   What's happening in the east right now?   Do you feel more of an importance tonight to get some extra rest?  
DUSTIN PENNER:   No, I don't think we use that as motivation.   We do it for selfish reasons.   We want to make it to the Stanley Cup finals.   We have one more win to accomplish that.   We're not too concerned with what's going on out east.   
   
 Q.   For a change, you have L.A. to yourselves now with the basketball teams out.   Do you think you can make some inroads that way?   
DUSTIN PENNER:   Yeah, I mean, probably addition by subtraction, right?   Now there's less fans watching basketball, so hockey seems to be the only thing on, other than the Dodgers.   
I'm sure we'll get some more viewership.   
   
 Q.   They talked about keeping their emotions in check coming out of the last game.   Any thoughts about going into that tonight, backing away from the physical play?  
DUSTIN PENNER:   You're talking about them?   
   
 Q.   Yes.   
DUSTIN PENNER:   Doesn't much matter to us.   We have a game plan that we try to put into action.   It's usually based on what they're doing as far as system‑wise.   We have to worry about how to get better as a team.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, Dustin.   
   
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT