NHL STANLEY CUP FINAL: BLUES VS BRUINS
May 30, 2019
Patrice Bergeron
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions.
Q. Just your take on the hit on Grzelcyk.  Also those types of hits, some people say the player getting hit, it's more his responsibility.  What is your take on that?
PATRICE BERGERON: I mean, obviously it's one of those things where it happens fast on the ice.  On that particular hit, I thought he was facing that way the whole time.  He was trying to handle the puck.  It seemed like he was in that position for a little bit of time, to give enough time for the guy coming in to try to change his route.
Like I said, it happens fast.  It's not always easy to do so.
Q. (No microphone.)
PATRICE BERGERON: Well, I think he's got obviously a great shot.  They're making plays, playing well as a line.  He uses his speed well.  He finds ways to get away from I guess coverage, to get open, finds ways to get that puck.  Once he does have it, it doesn't stay long on his stick.
Q. (Question about injuries.)
PATRICE BERGERON: I think any time there's a guy that goes down, obviously it's not easy.  As a forward group, you need to get back and try to help.  In this particular series, they're coming fast and hard on the forecheck.  You need to buy some time for that.
Obviously, you play together, you play as a team.
Q. That was arguably the biggest win in the history of the St. Louis franchise.  Now you're heading there.  What kind of atmosphere do you expect?  How can you prepare your less-experienced teammates for this enemy territory?
PATRICE BERGERON: We know it's going to be electric.  There's a buzz there in St. Louis right now, on their team.  No different than how it was here in Boston.  We've been through it before.  I think for some of the young guys, Carolina was very loud, it was a loud building, not necessarily easy to play in.
I think it's always about simplifying your game and taking it not a shift at a time, but a period at a time.  I think the first goal is always huge in the game.  We know St. Louis likes to start strong.
It's about worrying about what you control, how you play.
Q. This has turned into a very physical series.  Is that what you were expecting?  Do you feel like the Bruins need to match the physicality?
PATRICE BERGERON: It's what we expected.  We've seen it against Columbus a little bit, and Carolina was also a physical team.  Nothing that we're not used to.
Yes, we have to respond and play a physical game.  When you move the puck quickly, it's a lot harder.
Q. The Sharks ended their series in St. Louis, they thought that the Blues had taken out some of their players.  Did you come into the series with any discussion of keeping your heads up a little bit more, whether or not the Sharks were right, that you have to be that much more careful because of the physicality?
PATRICE BERGERON: I mean, it's obviously something that we talk about.  It's Playoff hockey.  We all know that you fight for every inch, every puck battle, whatnot.  Nothing that we weren't expecting is happening the last two games.  I think we've been handling it well this whole Playoff run, we got to keep going.
Q. Coach mentioned that he expects that your line will probably have their best game.  He said last night was not your best game.  What do you have to make sure that his words won't fall on deaf ears?
PATRICE BERGERON: I think we obviously have to respond from last night.  It's always about what's in front of you.  Whatever is behind is in the past.  You have no control over it.
I think when a game like that happens, you look at what you can improve, get better, and go back to what you know is successful for your team and you individually.  That's all.  You just have to go out there and play your style, just worry about what we can really control.
Q. Bruce said he's anticipating them to put the Schenn line against yours.  What have you seen in the first two games against them?  How do you believe your line has handled the first two games of the series?
PATRICE BERGERON: I think they're a really good line.  They play well together, good at forechecking, turning pucks over.  We need to capitalize.  For us, it's about being better.  We've dealt with this this whole Playoffs against different lines.  It's no different.
We know how we can play.  It's about taking care of the puck in the zone.
Q. You talk about finding the areas you want to be better.  Have you identified them yet?
PATRICE BERGERON: I think executing a little better in our zone.  I think it starts there.  Then, yeah, a lot of unforced errors last night.  I think it's play a little bit more our way, our style.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT