NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: BRUINS v CANUCKS
June 7, 2011
Patrice Bergeron
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Questions for Patrice Bergeron.
 PATRICE BERGERON: His health is really important. I sent him a text message. I'm not expecting a response. I want him to do better, get better. We're all thinking about him. 

 Q. Four games for Rome. He's not going to play in the finals. Them losing him, you losing Horton, not the same effect. 
 PATRICE BERGERON: Obviously Horton is a huge part of our team. That being said, we got to, as a team, do a job, step up. It's about not just one guy, it's about everyone making sure we're doing our job. You can't replace Horts.

 Q. Do you feel like you have the momentum right now?
 PATRICE BERGERON: You know, it's only one game. We feel good about the way we played last night. That's how we got to play. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 PATRICE BERGERON: That's for sure. Feels a lot better. The first two games, you know, we played well but we could have been better. I thought last night was a really good effort. 

 Q. Do you believe four games in the Stanley Cup finals is a significant penalty? 
 PATRICE BERGERON: Well, I think it's significant. He's not going to come back. He's done for the playoffs. Losing Horts, you know, you can't replace him. 

 Q. You talk about taking it one game at a time. Do you feel like it's that approach that really helped you guys?
 PATRICE BERGERON: Yeah. That's the approach we've had all playoffs, you know. Win, put it behind you. If you lose, put it behind you. It's the same thing. It's all about the next game in the playoff series. You got to win four games. It's never over. 

 Q. You talk about heading into this series about the power-play. They haven't scored at the rate that they used to in the power-play. What have you been doing to contain them?
 PATRICE BERGERON: Yeah, I don't know. I think we're trying not to give them too much time. Obviously, their players are going to make plays if they have time. That's the biggest thing we've tried to do. 
 We have to stay disciplined. They're a good team with a good power-play. We have to stay out of the box.

 Q. Do you think you've gotten into Luongo's head a little bit?
 PATRICE BERGERON: I don't know. He's a great goalie. I had him at the Olympics. He was great. Obviously we have to have the same approach as putting pucks on net and testing him next game. I expect him obviously to have a good game again. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT