NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: BRUINS v CANUCKS
June 5, 2011
Patrice Bergeron
Tim Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

 Q. Tim, wanted to ask you about when you're a goaltender that comes out of the net a lot, when you challenge the way you do, do you think your defensemen and teammates maybe have to defend a little bit differently expecting that? Is there any room or need for you to make adjustments with regard to that? 
 TIM THOMAS: No. I have a pretty good idea of how to play goalie. I'm not going to be taking suggestions or advice at this time (smiling). I'm just going to keep playing the way I have. 

 Q. Both games were very close. At the very end, they went Vancouver's way. Is there a reason for that? 
 PATRICE BERGERON: I don't know if there's a reason. But obviously we got to find a way to play for the whole 60 minutes and plus because if we go in overtime. 
 But, no, I don't think there's a reason. Obviously they're a good team and when they do have room, they're going to make some plays, so we have to make sure we stay tighter. 

 Q. How do you go about getting rest? This is not a regular-season situation. To make sure you're physically ready, what do you have to do?
 PATRICE BERGERON: I think you just got to take as much as you can when you can. I mean, obviously we're not used to it, but at the same time we can't let that affect us. That's the schedule. That's the way it is. We can't control it. So we got to make the most of it. 
 Obviously tonight's going to be a big night for us to make sure we have some good rest. But that being said, it's not an excuse. 
 TIM THOMAS: Yeah, there's no trick. You just got to try to get as much sleep as you can tonight. If you're the type of player that likes afternoon naps, try to get a good nap tomorrow. 

 Q. Tim, two games into the series, have you noticed any tendencies with the Sedins? 
 TIM THOMAS: No. I've approached them just trying to play them both honestly, be ready for both pass and shot at all times. 
 At this point, you know, I don't think you should rely too much on tendencies because then if they don't do what you're expecting, you're in trouble. I think you just have to react and play the game. 

 Q. Patrice, with the discussion the last couple games about puck management decisions, turnovers, will you be able to come out tomorrow night and be relaxed enough to do the things that you know you need to do or does it become a case where when the mistakes are so small that lead to goals, you squeeze your stick a little?
 PATRICE BERGERON: Yeah, now is not the time to squeeze your stick and to panic. It's time to go back to what's been giving us success. Obviously putting pucks in deep, having a forecheck is one of them. It's obviously something we need to do tomorrow. 
 But squeezing our sticks is not going to help us at all. We got to go out there, play our game, make sure we play loose, and at the same time play hard and desperate. 

 Q. Tim, you're coming off of two games where you played exceptionally well, but tough losses. How do you shake those off? 
 TIM THOMAS: You have to put it behind you, obviously. I think actually I've already done that. I've already started to prepare for tomorrow. I just have to, not just me, but the whole team has to put it behind them, show up ready to play the best they're capable of tomorrow. 

 Q. Tim, you have been 0-2 down in these playoffs with a tougher road going on the road to win the next two. How much heart does that give you that you have done this and you're coming home?
 TIM THOMAS: It does give you some consolation to know that you've done it before. But, you know, having said that, tomorrow it will be time to stop talking about it, it will be time to start doing it. 
 Tomorrow is a big game for us. We have to come up on top to get back into this series one game at a time. 

 Q. Tim, how much of a motivating factor or how much confidence does it give you knowing 30 seconds separates you guys from a 2-0 lead?
 TIM THOMAS: Hadn't thought about it that way actually. You could use that to look at it as a way to say that you've been right there in the games. But the reality was you lost two games. It doesn't really matter if we were down with 18 minutes left in the third and still lost by one goal, we still lost. So I hadn't put too much thought into it. 

 Q. Tim, are you able to appreciate what Luongo has done on the other side or you're so consumed with what you're doing?
 TIM THOMAS: Well, I've been busy just trying to do my own job. I think he's played well with what he's been tested with. But I don't think we've tested him enough. 
 That's part of the reason we're down 2-0 in the series. 

 Q. Patrice, that said, what can you do to pester him a little bit more, test him a little bit more?
 PATRICE BERGERON: Obviously start with some traffic in the front, finding a way to get through to the front of the net. Obviously they're doing a good job of boxing us out. It shouldn't be an excuse. We need to find a way. We're in the finals. 
 Yes, he's doing a good job on the first shot if he sees it, but if he has some traffic, going out there for the rebounds, obviously that's going to create some havoc. 
 I thought when we had some really good chances when we were moving our feet, we were first on the puck in the corners and stuff, making sure we were always having a guy in front. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT