NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: BRUINS v CANUCKS
June 3, 2011
Patrice Bergeron
Dennis Seidenberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Patrice, can you talk about the third period, Vancouver talked about being able to establish their speed. From your end, talk about the neutral zone, cleaning up that area. 
 PATRICE BERGERON: Yeah, I think you're right. The neutral zone, we weren't getting pucks deep. That's what was giving them I guess the speed that they want, the counterattack that they wanted. 
 We're going to make a better job, especially in the neutral zone, at putting pucks deep and having a better forecheck. 
 DENNIS SEIDENBERG: I think it's the same thing. If we don't go through the neutral zone clean and get behind our Ds, they'll pick it up on the blueline and counterattack quick. It's tough for us to get a gap at Ds. If you don't get a gap at D's, they get more room and space and speed. That causes a lot of trouble and chances for them. 

 Q. Patrice, I know it's rather an obvious question. How important is it for you guys to get out of here with a split tomorrow night? 
 PATRICE BERGERON: Yeah, obviously we want to get back in this series. It's very important. We'll approach the next game always as the most important one. Now it's about Game 2. It's the biggest game right now of the series. It's always like that. 
 Now we're just concentrating on making sure we're coming out of here with a great game. Obviously we want the win. 

 Q. You have faced 1-0 and 2-0 deficits in these playoffs and overcome them. If you don't win, it's not the end of the world? 
 PATRICE BERGERON: It's never over until you get that fourth win, right? I think it is fair to say. 
 I mean, but that being said, we're really focusing on making sure we're getting back in that series. 

 Q. Dennis, I'm not sure if you saw during one of the TV timeouts in Game 1, Dirk Nowitzki has a message for Christian Ehrhoff. Did that surprise you?
 DENNIS SEIDENBERG: No, I talked to a German reporter, I talked to Dirk. The Dallas Mavericks trainer is either a Vancouver fan or from Vancouver, I'm not sure. He always keeps him up to date, tells him story. 
 I guess that's the reason he's cheering for them. I have no idea. 

 Q. Dennis, we interviewed Dirk Nowitzki in Miami yesterday. Are you slighted at all that he doesn't know you even though you're both German? 
 DENNIS SEIDENBERG: Actually, I haven't heard that yet. 
 I don't know what I'm supposed to say to that (smiling). I follow him a lot. Obviously, he's a superstar. I still think he's a great player. It doesn't change anything. 

 Q. Talk a little bit about your relationship/friendship with Christian from having played with him at all levels. 
 DENNIS SEIDENBERG: Yeah, you're right, we've played together since we've been 17, I would say, all at national tournaments. We get along well off the ice obviously. Last year we actually played together at the Olympics. 
 But right now we don't really talk, obviously. There's enough time to talk after. But for now we both want to win the Stanley Cup. 

 Q. Could you talk a bit about the importance of getting a good start here in Vancouver for Game 2. You've been giving up some early goals in the playoffs this season. 
 DENNIS SEIDENBERG: I think every game you start, you want to have a good start, you want to come out flying, you want to get momentum. It's not going to change again tomorrow. 
 In the past we've given up a few early goals. But we always seem to recover quick, come back from those early deficits. Again, tomorrow we're trying to get on top early. 

 Q. Dennis, can you talk about Adam McQuaid, his development? Can you talk about the importance of having sound breakouts in this Game 2? 
 DENNIS SEIDENBERG: Adam I think has shown all season that he's a solid defenseman. He hits really hard. He just keeps his game really simple. Very important part for our team. 
 Yeah, breakouts. Against a high-pressure team, you always want to get clean breakouts. In order to do that, you have to have all the guys coming back and support each other and give each other outs, have crisp puck movement. 
 We didn't do a good job in Game 1, but we certainly want to do better or improve tomorrow. 

 Q. Patrice, you had some shots against Luongo the first game, but maybe not as many high-quality chances. What do you think you can do to get better quality or a higher number of chances? 
 PATRICE BERGERON: Well, I think it starts obviously in the neutral zone. Once we're in their zone, we got to find a better way to get to the net and battle for those loose pucks, but also fight for ice. They're doing a good job of boxing us out. 
 That being said, we have to make sure we're getting in front of net, creating some havoc, having some better looks. 

 Q. Patrice, are you going to have to be patient in this series because both goaltenders are playing well? 
 PATRICE BERGERON: Well, when you do have a chance, you got to make sure you bear down and find a way. Obviously they're both great goalies. Luongo is a great goalie. At the same time if he doesn't see it, most of the time you're going to score. We really need to do a better job finding a way to the net. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT