NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: BRUINS v CANUCKS
May 31, 2011
Patrice Bergeron
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Questions for Patrice Bergeron.   
  
  Q. When you walk into this building, playing for a championship, does it stir up a lot of memories?   
 PATRICE BERGERON: Yeah, for sure. Those memories I'll never forget. Obviously having a chance to win a gold medal on Canadian soil in Vancouver was something special. Obviously it's some memories, like I said, I'll never forget. It was fun to come back here.   
 At the same time we have a job to do. It's about making sure we concentrate on Game 1 and don't worry about anything else. For me it's about just going out there and playing my game.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 PATRICE BERGERON: Maybe I'll rely on my teammates. Obviously he's a great goalie.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about the faceoff matchups.   
 PATRICE BERGERON: Yeah. Obviously we don't see them that often, but we know they're pretty good on faceoffs. Yeah, it's going to be obviously getting the puck on those draws. Starting with the puck is something important. Getting those draws is going to be a key.   
  
  Q. At this time of the year how important are faceoffs?  
 PATRICE BERGERON: Yeah, especially this time of the year, draws are very important. I don't think it's about just the centermen, I think it's a job of all the five guys on the ice, about helping each other. That's what we're going to do.   
  
  Q. I don't know if it hit you before, but getting here to Vancouver, practicing here, now with all this media stuff, is it starting to feel like the Stanley Cup finals now?   
 PATRICE BERGERON: Yeah, it is. Obviously it's my first time so I didn't know what to expect. I think this is great. We got to enjoy every moment of it. This is one of them. Obviously the practice was fun.   
 Everything has been a really good experience so far.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 PATRICE BERGERON: Well, you know, I think he's a two-way forward. He's a great player. To be compared to him is nice. At the same time I'll try to be myself. I'm not even worrying about the comparison. To me it's about going out there, playing my game.   
 That being said, he does play a two-way game. He brings a lot to the table. Great player.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 PATRICE BERGERON: First of all, discipline is going to be a key. Yeah, I think playing tight in their zone. Obviously they're going to try to get us moving in our zone to create their chances. But we've got to make sure we're staying tight.   
 They're a great team overall. We got to make sure we have our best game every game.   
   
    
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT