NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: BRUINS v BLACKHAWKS
June 11, 2013
Patrice Bergeron
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Patrice. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
PATRICE BERGERON:   Yeah, I think so.   I mean, I don't have the answer for everyone.   But for my case, I would say that's the only way I can approach it, is just to go out there, embrace it, try to have fun, make the most of it, I guess. 
That's definitely something I've always tried to do.   I think it's important to work on your mental part of the game.   It helps in those key moments. 

Q.   (Question regarding confidence.) 
PATRICE BERGERON:   I think it's good.   You need it to be good like it is.   Although we really respect Chicago, we know it's going to be a tough series, we got to go out there and believe in our abilities.   I guess I should say, just go out there, be in the moment, play your game, not worry too much about what's ahead of you, just worry about that first game, going from there. 
I think the confidence level is where it should be. 

Q.   (Question regarding Tuukka Rask.)
PATRICE BERGERON:   Yeah, I'd say right away.   He's got the poise, but also the confidence in him that he can do the job.   But also he's got the talent.   Obviously that's something important to have.   He also has the character. 
I think he had everything from the beginning to be a starter, and not just a starter, but a goalie that could steal games for you. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
PATRICE BERGERON:   If there's a point? 

Q.   A game or a situation. 
PATRICE BERGERON:   I don't know.   I mean, like I said, I've always had tremendous confidence in his game, the way he handled himself off the ice, the way he could shake off a tough performance.   The opposite is true, when he had a really good performance, he stole a game for us, he never got over‑confident.   That's what you're looking for in a goalie.

Q.   What you did against Pittsburgh, how much confidence does that give you and how are they different?
PATRICE BERGERON:   Tough transition, great up front, tough to play against.   We're expecting a tough series. 
We got to play the same way we played against Pittsburgh.   But we don't expect an easy series.   We know we're going to have to fight for every inch.   We know it's going to be a tough battle.   We've got to be in the moment. 
There's some similarities in their skill up front.   That being said, they're a complete team.   It's going to be a tough one. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
PATRICE BERGERON:   I don't know.   I mean, obviously we're our own player, I should say.   But he's definitely a great player, tough to play against.   He's a complete player.   He's the type of player you want to have on your team. 
His two‑way game is great.   But also his compete level and skills are excellent. 
It's always tough.   You need to know when he's on the ice, tough battles against him.   It's a great challenge.   You got to go out there and embrace that. 

Q.   Is how special this is sinking in yet?
PATRICE BERGERON:   Yeah, it's starting I guess to sink in a bit.   It never does until you play the game.   Can't wait for tomorrow obviously.   We're excited about it. 
Yeah, no, it's great to be here.   We're looking forward for the series. 

Q.   Can you describe the focus of the team. 
PATRICE BERGERON:   I think it's been good.   Towards one goal, obviously:   to prepare for Chicago.   Every day has been better, I thought.   That's a good thought. 

Q.   Can you talk about Nathan Horton.   He was talking about how special this was for him after what happened two years ago. 
PATRICE BERGERON:   It means a lot.   He's a special person, special player.   It's great to have him with us.   It gives us I guess some energy to have him in the lineup. 
Two years ago we rallied after he went down and tried to win it for him.   This year is the same thing.   Obviously we definitely want to win.   Having him with us gives us some life because he's such a clutch player, but also a great player.   All year, but also this playoffs, he's been unbelievable. 

Q.   Similar with Gregory being out. 
PATRICE BERGERON:   Yeah, it's one of those things.   Soupy is a team guy, a team player, somebody you definitely want to do it for him because you know how much it hurts for him to be watching. 

Q.   (Question regarding Lucic.) 
PATRICE BERGERON:   He doesn't do Bob McKenzie.   But he's always on top of the numbers, wins and losses.   Any sport you can ask him, he knows about the standings, who should win, who should not.   Definitely you don't need your cell phone, don't need to go look on SportsCenter for the highlights or the results, because he has it. 

Q.   Tim Tebow, what were your thoughts about that, that we were going to ask you about it?
PATRICE BERGERON:   I didn't think about it.   I guess it's good for the Patriots.   I have no idea too much about football.   I guess it's good for them.   I don't know.   I guess it is (smiling). 

Q.   Does it surprise you that Toews' numbers are so modest in the playoffs? 
PATRICE BERGERON:   I'm not going to see 'surprised' because, you know, the way that he plays, his two‑way game is so important to teams, the way he competes.   He's obviously the captain of the team.   He brings a lot to the table in order to help his team.   I think it's beyond goals and assists, especially with a player like him. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT