INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY QWEST
August 1, 2000
David Gossett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
DAVID GOSSETT:   Thank you.  Certainly nice to be here. 
 
DAVID GOSSETT:  First off, just excited to be here.  Making my professional debut at The International.  It's a great spot.  Played the course several times and just really like the way it sets up.  It's in great shape.  Weather has been perfect.  Mr. Vickers, the whole committee, I think they do a wonderful job.  Looking forward to the week. 
 

Q.  What went into your decisions?  What were the pros; the cons?
 
DAVID GOSSETT:  It was a decision I'd been thinking about for quite a while.  Since I won the Amateur at Pebble, I started to think about it a bit.  I played in some Tour events in the fall of last year and then played in college golf pretty much in the spring apart from the Masters.  Had some really good experiences playing in the three major championships this year.  I was paired with defending champion Jose Maria Olazabal in the first two rounds of the Masters, and paired with Jack Nicklaus on Sunday in Augusta.  You can't hardly beat that.  And I was paired with Jack Nicklaus again at Pebble Beach where we both won the Amateur; it's been a lot of fun.  Recently played with Nick Price and Tiger Woods in the first two rounds of the British.  That helped me gain some confidence, made me feel comfortable and feel this is a right decision.  I've been working hard on my game since I was 14.  And tried to see how I could be at this game, and that's what I'm playing for.  I felt comfortable this was the time to do it.  Let me add on there, too, seeing young players such as Tiger and Sergio Garcia, who I've played junior golf with.  And young players -- the Adam Scotts in the world, and recently Charles Howell, who's doing well, it's encouraging to see players my age who I've played golf with doing well and it motivates me to work on my game. 
 

Q.  Where do you like to play normally?  And in your rounds here so far, has the altitude affected you in walking up the hills?
 
DAVID GOSSETT:  I like to play golf anywhere.  There's 18 tee boxes and 18 greens.  I'm from Memphis, Tennessee -- Germantown, to be exact.  I went to the University of Texas in Austin.  Certainly love golf in Austin. As far the altitude affecting the ball up here, it's been kind of fun.  You get on some of those cliffs, it's good for the ego, goes a long way.  Affects the ball, no question.  But doesn't seem that difficult.  10 percent's rule.  That's what everyone's going by, comparing it to sea level.  But I really like how this course sets up.  It's challenging, yet there's certainly room for birdies.  I like how I play out here.  I hit the ball high, so the ball will carry farther.  I like this spot.  I'm pleased to be starting here. 
 

Q.  David, is the adjustment to the pro game going to be more mental than anything?
 
DAVID GOSSETT:  Yeah, I would say it is a mental thing.  The golf ball doesn't know if you're amateur or pro or how old you are or anything.  So you know, I don't think it's -- as far as golf goes, there's not much difference.  Certainly the competition is more competitive, higher level golf courses are very similar to some of the, you know, top amateur tournaments.  And I've played in  -- this is my 11th professional tournament to play in. First one as a professional obviously.  I think mentally just to put everything to the side right now for me is the major focus, and to be able to just focus on my golf game and playing good golf.  When you play good golf, good things happen, no matter what level you are  -- junior, amateur, college, or professional. 
 

Q.  What kind of goals have you set for yourself?  Your expectations?
 
DAVID GOSSETT:  Seeing young players do so well that I've played well against.  Charles Howell finished third yesterday. That's pretty encouraging towards me.  I feel comfortable out here, having played with Tiger Woods and Jack Nicklaus.  I feel those experiences will help me.  As far as my expectations, the goal is to get a PGA TOUR card for 2001.  I would like to play well in these sponsor's exemptions and bypass qualifying school.  If not, go to qualifying school.  I'm excited about the challenge of taking my game to the next level and being consistent.  And ultimately, I want to be on the top of the leaderboard Sunday afternoon. 
 

Q.  What tournaments did you play last fall? 
 
DAVID GOSSETT:  All right.  After winning the Amateur at Pebble, I went to Scotland 12 days and played in the Walker Cup.  I came back and played in the first Tour event in Texas.  The Texas Open.  Played at Kingsmill in Virginia.  Then played one down in Mississippi, the same week as the Tour Championship, sadly the week Payne Stewart passed away.  Those experiences were helpful.  I played in FedEx Classic in my hometown tournament.  When I was 19.  Played pretty well.  One back of Nick Price Saturday afternoon.  Good experience.  Did a little fishing on the back nine with the golf ball, but nonetheless got a good feel, got in the hunt when I was 19, just out of high school.  So I think playing in these tournaments have helped.  I recently played Loch Lomond, a European tournament, finished 15th the week before the British Open.  And I think those will be helpful experiences.  Played with Jose Maria the last two rounds.  It was fun. 
 

Q.  How many times have you played this course?  When did you play it?
 
DAVID GOSSETT:  I came out a few weeks ago and just practiced -- played a few times with my dad.  We came out just to see the course and get a good test of it and meet the people out here.  They were so gracious and kind to let us practice and check it out.  Obviously, I played yesterday in the Pro Am.  I played three, four times.  And played today with defending champ David Toms.  We have the same instructor in Memphis.  Played practice rounds occasionally. 
 

Q.  You are a new breed of golfers.  Is there somebody out there that can give Tiger a challenge?
 
DAVID GOSSETT:  Most definitely.  Tiger has taken his game to phenomenal heights, and he's raised the bar for everyone.  I think it's matter of time before other players really work on our game; and hopefully, I'll be a part of that as well, so I can get my game to a level where I can have chances to win golf tournaments, beating Tiger Woods or Phil Mickelson.   
 

Q.  Follow-up to that one, the players have been losing to Tiger and may have kind of started to get a mental thing.  But the new breed, you guys haven't.  Do you think that's maybe an advantage, you don't have that history behind you?
 
DAVID GOSSETT:  I think it certainly can be.  You know, I believe that you are what you believe you are.  And Hal Sutton, I learned a lot by watching him and watching some of his press conferences, when he went head-to-head with Tiger and finished on top at the PLAYERS Championship.  And he talks about the media and how they were trying to get him to find a way for to give it to Tiger.  He said:  You know, I'm going to go out, do my absolute best and play the golf course, and not worry about the rival stuff, i.e.  Tiger Woods, the media, the people, the crowds.  Tiger Woods is a phenomenal golfer, no question about it.  His game is excellent.  He's at the top time and time again.  As far as the new breed, I think that will be an advantage if we think it is.  If not, we can find ways to be intimidated as well. I think it's really up to the individual. 
 

Q.  Speaking of the new breed, do you have a name for you, you know, you and Charlie and Sergio and Adam, that we should call you, new -- some kind of a nickname for the group?  Do you think of a good one?
 
DAVID GOSSETT:  Put me on the spot here. 
 

Q.  "Rat pack" or something like that?
 
DAVID GOSSETT:  I don't know.  I think that's your job.  I'm not sure.  I'm not sure about that job.  Maybe we'll get together and conjure something up here.  No, I don't.  Sorry.  David Gossett.  That is me. 
 

Q.  David, you say this is your 11th tournament as a pro -- first as a pro, but played in 11 previous?
 
DAVID GOSSETT:  Correct. 
 

Q.  How well have you played.  What's been your lowest finish, and have you figured out how much you might have made if you were pro?
 
DAVID GOSSETT:  My best finish was  15th at Loch Lomond a few weeks ago.  As far as money goes, I played in Southern Farm in Mississippi, and it was October, and finished on a Sunday, and I finished tied for 23rd.  And as I was signing my score card, and I had class the next morning in Austin, Texas  -- the person said:  Well, David, if you were a professional, you would have made $18,000.  He said:  Enjoy class tomorrow.  And he smiled.  He was kidding me.  But certainly I would have accumulated some money, and in the Masters making the cut.  I don't know, 20,000 pounds, I guess I would have made at Loch Lomond.  But you know, it doesn't matter, really.  I guess, because I'm an amateur, but I got lot of amateur trophies.  A nice sword at Loch Lomond and certainly the cup at the Masters that I'll have. 
 

Q.  The question I have is leaving UT.  Your thoughts?
 
DAVID GOSSETT:  Well, my experience at University of Texas has been awesome.  I enjoyed Austin, Texas.  My coach John Fields is supportive and encouraging to me.  When I won the Amateur, he was there with me and my family.  He encouraged me to play in those Tour events rather than college events, because he thought that would be helpful to my game and towards the NCAA.  I enjoy the guys on the team Austin is a great school.  I left with good terms, academically, I did well when I was there.  It's nice to have the opportunity to go back and finish.  As far as my golf, this is what I've been practicing for a long time.  This is an opportunity to stand up to the plate and take it while I've got it.  This is what I'm playing for.  I don't want to blink.  I want to do the best I can, and I have the opportunity to go back, which is great.  The people at Texas are supportive and understanding.  So I'm very lucky to have a good support system in Texas.  It wasn't an easy decision, but I had to follow my heart, and I was fortunate to have the support of my family and parents, Larry and Pam, and my sister Joanie.  She's 18 years old.  They're all supportive.  I'm very lucky. 
 

Q.  How many sponsors exemptions do you get as soon as you turn pro?
 
DAVID GOSSETT:  A maximum of 7.  I have 5 at the moment.  I'm going to play here, and Monday try to qualify at the Buick Open next week up in Michigan.  I got a sponsor invite for Reno for the Air Canadian in Vancouver, and the Canadian Open in Toronto area, and then San Antonio in Texas.  So I've got 5. 
 
DAVID GOSSETT:  Doesn't count as a sponsor's invite. 
 

Q.  Back to the new breed thing.  Seems like you guys all hit it pretty big.  Is that kind of the key to play today's game, and to challenge Tiger?
 
DAVID GOSSETT:  Well, I think it's no question that golf is -- athleticism is becoming more a part of golf.  Young kids growing up are saying:  Wow, golf is pretty cool.  Instead of necessarily going into baseball, basketball, football, they're trying out golf.  Strength and training.  Gary Player was ahead of his time, but today Tiger Woods is leading that stretch and really getting some muscle, not totally bulking out, but certainly toning and getting strength.  Not holding back.  This is not just a nice little passive swing, gentleman's game.  He's going after it.  Certainly hitting the ball a long ways is conducive to playing a long time and allows you to play well on a lot of different courses. 
 
DAVID GOSSETT:  Thank you.  
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT