U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 22, 1999
David Gossett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
DAVID GOSSETT:  It sounds wonderful.  It's pretty awesome.  It was a long week here at Pebble Beach.  Beautiful scene all week long.  I was focused each day.  I got off to a rough start.  As you all know, and just came back, and fought with the 71; and from there on out just played good golf, solid.  Andrew Martinez on the bag helped; been around here a lot. It's been awesome.  It's been a lot of hard work, and it's paid off, and this was just my time to win. 
 
DAVID GOSSETT:  Ancient history.  It's nice to have it behind me.  It just gave me a lot of confidence that on a tough golf course, I came back, shot 71,  Spyglass.  I really proved a lot to myself to get in the match play.  And I carried on with that. 
 
DAVID GOSSETT:  The first match, 3-down after 3, that's not the place you want to be.  But I fought back and played some good golf.  And Chad would not quit, and made a birdie on 17 to win.  The next two matches I played well against Robert Gerwin (II), played really well and won 5-4.  And then against Richard, a little sloppy there on the back 9.  But he kind of helped me out, and I won 5-4 again.  And against James, same type of story.  Played good golf.  He didn't quit, either.  Got a little help at the end, but he played solid golf.  And a lot of quick starts, most of my matches, apart from Chad, I got off to an early lead.  I think I won the first hole -- in not the first match, but I think all but one of my matches, so I guess three out of five, I won the first hole.  To get that 1-up start early, that's pretty good.  
 
DAVID GOSSETT:  Well, I think Coach will understand.  He'll have no problem with me representing the United States and going to play a little golf in Augusta in April.  He'll certainly be there and supporting me.  Coach Fields is great.  He runs a wonderful program, and looking forward to getting back to Austin.  This will be fun. 
 
DAVID GOSSETT:  Not really.  I have some time to really let it sink in after this is over, soon, in the next hour or so.  And just kind of get some time to myself and with my family, and really soak it in and relax.  Yeah, I'm tired, but I don't feel terribly tired right now.  Working out really paid off for me. I've got to say physical fitness, it paid off, big time.  I just drank water and Gatorade for the last three weeks, and went to bed early, and played a lot of golf and practiced hard.  
 

Q.  David, 5-up after the first 18 holes, did you figure that was a pretty good place to be; was it over then?
 
DAVID GOSSETT:  Certainly was not over.  Mr. Kim can play some good golf.  And we've seen this before, a few years ago, a 5-up lead, lose, and Tiger winning in extra holes.  So I knew it wasn't over, but I felt comfortable.  Obviously -- I would have liked to play better on the par-5s, the back 9, the first 18, bogeying 14 and 18.  And then to bogey 16 from the middle of the fairway, I felt like it was Christmas in August.  So I didn't like that.  So I just was focusing on the few shots I missed,.  Hit a few balls, got ready, ate lunch and got focused.  I treated it as a new match, really.  Andrew and I, we had the philosophy, you play one hole at a time.  Play each shot, and not pay too much attention to who you're playing or what they're doing. Obviously, in certain situations, if they hit it in the rough or hazard, it may affect your strategy.  We looked at it as a new match.  And it helped me hit a good shot on the first hole, to make that birdie, instead of saying:  I've got a five-shot lead and getting a little lazy. 
 

Q.  David, did you chart your career when you were  in high school, saying:  I'd like to do this, this and this?  And I assume all young golfers plan on turning pro.  How does it affect the planning, winning this tournament?
 
DAVID GOSSETT:  It certainly has a positive impact.  You know, I've always -- each year, I've always had goals that I wanted to accomplish.  And with the American Junior Golf Association, I really wanted to, first team All-American, or to eventually getting the Player-of-the-Year in '97, I accomplished a goal there.  With college, I really wanted to get some wins under my belt and compete at the NCAA, which didn't happen this year, but hopefully, next year at Auburn. And the U.S. Amateur has always been one of my goals.  And it has meant -- this will mean so much to me,.  I haven't really had much time to think about it.  But this is awesome.  I'm really pleased that I was able to go out and stay focused and get the job done.  It's great. 
 

Q.  When did you first become aware of the U.S. Amateur, when Tiger Woods was knocking them down?
 
DAVID GOSSETT:  Yes, pretty much with the U.S. Amateur.  I didn't realize its importance until a little later than I would have liked, to be honest.  I  played a lot of baseball growing up, and I was really focused on baseball and going to the pool and having fun after a baseball game, until I was about 11 years old.  So I wasn't playing golf -- I played golf when I was 9 and 10, but pretty much that was the summer, until I was about 11 or 12.  So I wasn't beating balls when I was 4, working on the golf game and short game.  Same thing with the Junior.  We just kind of applied and tried to get in; and I got in, but lost -- didn't do anything, really, in the U.S. Juniors. Although, I did play in three of them.  So, yeah, I learned it with Tiger Woods, watching him on television. 
 

Q.  Can you talk about the Texas alums?  You got a telephone or fax from Kite and today a call from Crenshaw?
 
DAVID GOSSETT:  Texas alums, rich in tradition the University of Texas, with the golf program.  And the school academically is a very strong institution.  Tom Kite, yeah, sent me a fax, apparently dad told me, sent a fax, all their best wishes, the Kite family.  It's awesome.  He's so involved with the school, and they love -- they bleed a little burnt orange.   Ben Crenshaw sent me a congratulations.  Just got it in the fax now.  So it was pretty awesome to have a special tie into players like that, who have won majors. 
 

Q.  Kite -- Kite's was last night?
 
DAVID GOSSETT:  After I hit the tee shot on 1 this morning.  And Ben Crenshaw I got three minutes ago. 
 

Q.  Both faxes?
 
DAVID GOSSETT:  I don't know.  Just a message is what I was told.  I've got a sheet here that Ben says congratulations.  He called, and I think Tom faxed. 
 

Q.  David, it may be hard to pinpoint one key hole in a 9-8 final, but if there was one, could it have been the 6th this morning, and can you describe the difficulty of that third shot you hit?
 
DAVID GOSSETT:  Yeah, I agree, that was very pivotal hole there.  It was actually the second time that I did that in match play.  I hit it in the rough, chipped out, and then hit a 3-iron both times, today; I hit a great shot to 6 feet.  A couple of days ago, I hit it to 20 feet and made birdie.  It's a really tough shot.  You can't see where you're going.  Andrew Martinez helped me out this  week.  When you're 80 yards behind the ball and being receptive there; that helped me early in the week.  I didn't figure that out in the practice round.  I only saw the course once.  When you're well behind your ball, pick the line, and then when you get there, the pin, and right behind the tree or something.  So that was helpful to have his knowledge there. 
 

Q.  David, your first U.S. Amateur that you played, when was it and how did you do?
 
DAVID GOSSETT:  Cog Hill.  Missed the cut by 2.  And this is my second Amateur.  I was first alternate for the U.S. Open last year.  I lost in a playoff.  And first alternate for the U.S. Amateur last year.  So disappointing there, missing -- and first alternate the year before that for Congressional.  And just missed the Open last year and missed the Amateur, too.  This is kind of sweet. 
 

Q.  Just one more.  Obviously, this is going to change your life.  And you're going to spend a week in Scotland for the Walker Cup, and Matt Kuchar is on that team.  Do you plan on talking to him to find out a little bit about what goes on after you win the Amateur, and what you might expect as far as your time and the people trying to get to you and everything?
 
DAVID GOSSETT:  I really haven't thought of  it, but that sounds like a good idea.  Thanks, I'll do that (laughter.) 
 

Q.  David, aside from the faxes that you got from Ben or the message you got from Ben and Tom, there were some other UT people out there in orange walking around; kind of had a game face on.  I don't know if you saw that?
 
DAVID GOSSETT:  I sure did.  It was awesome. University of Texas, what can I say?  I really enjoy it.  The people are so enthusiastic about the school, and they bleed orange.  And the list goes on and on. It's more than just Tom Kite and Ben Crenshaw.  I'm trying to name names here:  Bob Estes, Omar Uresti, Mark Brooks, Justin Leonard -- some kid, Justin Leonard, he's pretty good, too.  But just the people in Austin are just so kind.  And the alum, they're so enthusiastic about the school and involved.  You saw the support, like you said.  The wearing the Longhorn hats and shirts, and hook 'em (horns).  The signs, real enthusiasm, it's great. 
 

Q.  Have you heard from Leonard this week?
 
DAVID GOSSETT:  I haven't, no. 
 

Q.  You were telling us the other day, you played in two FedEx tournaments in Memphis.  In matching your game against the pros, what do you think you would need  now if you had to go on the pro Tour?  What do you lack and what do you have?
 
DAVID GOSSETT:  Well, I feel pretty confident in my golf game.  Andrew mentioned to me, he said, "There's no weakness in your golf game, it's just all about hitting the shots consistently."  Like you all saw over the last few days, a lot of great golf shots, occasionally a mediocre shot that led to a bogey.  Just working on the percentage -- getting the percentages better, and being a little more consistent.  But I feel that I can compete with those guys.  I played well in Memphis.  And was two off the lead there for a brief while, and got in new territory that I wasn't familiar with at all, and learned a lot that week, that helped me here.  And this will obviously help me down the road.  They were all eye-opening experiences. 
 

Q.  If you had to look back over the whole week and pick out one key to the victory, what would it be?
 
DAVID GOSSETT:  That's an easy one.  I'd probably have to say just really -- almost probably Spyglass, that 71.  Like I've mentioned a few times, I've worked really hard last week in preparing for this.  And just everything:  Mind, body and soul, getting ready for this tournament.   And to go out and shoot an 80 in your first round at Pebble Beach in competition is not the foot you want to put forward, at all.  It was really disappointing, kind of, that first evening, Monday. But I quickly -- couldn't dwell on that, because I certainly knew pouting wouldn't help my golf score that would be posted at Spyglass the next day.  I tried to be positive and fight off the adversity and just stay focused on Spyglass and just believe in what I'm doing, because I've worked hard all summer.  And I know it hasn't come together, but I kept believing that what I was doing is right.  And I just believed in it, and went out and played good golf. 
 

Q.  David, kind of a follow-up, a pro question. How will you know when the time is right, and do you see yourself spending four years at Texas?
 
DAVID GOSSETT:  I think I'll know the time is right when I -- I don't know how to explain it.  I think I'll just know, really.  I'm hitting good golf shots, and my confidence is high now after winning a U.S. Amateur, but all summer, I felt like my game is good.  And it just didn't flourish.  I'll know -- we'll see.  Just see how we do this semester in school, and just work on the game, improve.  Those major championships next summer:  I  think The Masters, the U.S. Open and the British will be great barometer for my golf game and see where we're at. 
 

Q.  David, can you talk a little bit about what was going through your mind during the fog delay on 8, and could you see the green any better the second time around on that hole?
 
DAVID GOSSETT:  I was thinking:  Wow, this is not Memphis, at all.  It's beautiful one moment and it's crazy.  The fog is rolling in.  Nature is really at work.  It was nice to take a little -- obviously, I had a lot of momentum, and I could have enjoyed playing right through it.  But I also took it -- to myself to regroup.  Take some time to take some deep breaths. Took my turtleneck off; it was warm, and got refocused.  Made some practice swings, and hit a great 5-iron to 6 feet. 
 

Q.  David, seemed like one of the keys to your success this week was driving the ball so well.  Was this a particularly outstanding seven days of off-the-tee, or are you usually this straight?
 
DAVID GOSSETT:  I feel usually very confident with my driver.  This week it really came together well, particularly I've been working really hard the  last year or so.  And basically my -- on the fade shot, and this week it really came together.  Curving the ball left-to-right, but also I could hit the draw no problem.  Just swinging really well at it and hitting golf shots, stand up to a par-4 dog-leg left, I can throw my 3-wood and draw it.  I felt confident. 
 

Q.  Did the fairways feel pinched at all to you?
 
DAVID GOSSETT:  I thought it was fair.  It's obviously penal if you don't hit the fairway.  I really got specific on my target and tried to focus. 
 

Q.  David, based on how you played this summer coming into this tournament, did you think you needed to win this to get on the Walker Cup team, and was that an incentive at all today?
 
DAVID GOSSETT:  To make the Walker Cup team, sure, I knew I had to do well.  I won four college golf tournaments my freshman year.  And then just kind of at the end of the school year right before the NCAA, I played poorly at the regional.  My team did, as well. We didn't get to play in the NCAA.  And this summer, like I said, wasn't what I wanted.  So I knew I had to play well, but that wasn't my focus this week.  It was not to make the Walker Cup; it was to win the U.S. Amateur and fulfill that dream. And that's just icing on the cake, on the top.  
 

Q.  Will your arrangement with Andrew change now that you've won?  He told you earlier $500.  He didn't come down here to make money, anyway.  But now that you've won it --
 
DAVID GOSSETT:  I'll let dad take care of that one (laughter.) 
 

Q.  David, was there a big number in that first round, 80 here, or what --
 
DAVID GOSSETT:  There were several nice numbers in that first nine holes.  It's the U.S. Amateur, you work extremely hard for it, and just a little nervous anticipation.  I wanted to do so well, maybe.  Maybe it meant a little too much at first, because I wanted to do so well, and maybe that kind of cramped my style.  I just hit some poor golf shots and made two doubles.  Had a little putting problem on No. 7.  It's good to come back and fight and shoot 1-under at Spyglass. 
 

Q.  You made a double at 7?
 
DAVID GOSSETT:  I made a double at 7.  Made a double at No. 1.  Bogeyed No. 2.  I was 3-over after 2.  Spyglass was a good round; I was 3-under.  I teed off 10.  3-under par, front nine.  Just missed a putt for birdie to go 4-under on 1 and 2.  Missed a 6-footer on 2 to go 4-under.  And hung in there and made a double on the 5th hole.  And then really made some grade pars to hold it together at 1-under, making putts, 10-footer on 8.  Great par on 9.  Almost made birdie.  It just really gave me a lot of confidence for the rest of the week. 
 

Q.  Do you start classes pretty quickly?
 
DAVID GOSSETT:  Wednesday, three days.  A red-eye tonight to Memphis that will end up sometime tomorrow morning in Memphis, and a 11-hour drive to Austin ahead of me.  Mom is going to accompany me, and we'll have a good time, we'll take our time. 
 

Q.  At which point, David, did you feel you had the match under control?
 
DAVID GOSSETT:  Well, I was in the driver's seat pretty early, because I was up.  You can never get too comfortable because he's a great player.  This is an U.S. Amateur.  These golf holes are tough.  You never know what can happen.  So I respect his game, he's a good player.  So I just wanted to focus on my golf and try to do the  best I could.  When I got up and kept on piling up the holes, there.  I just tried to continue doing what I was doing.  Next thing I know I made up, it's great. 
 

Q.  You mentioned Memphis earlier, I guess R.J. Harper gave you a little pep-talk today a little bit?
 
DAVID GOSSETT:  That's right. 
 

Q.  Could you talk about that a little bit, and what you think your buddies at home are thinking right now?
 
DAVID GOSSETT:  I would imagine the buddies back home are pretty happy for me, and having a good time this evening.  R.J. just kind of -- we met just the other day, and we spoke about Memphis and how he grew up there and how long he's been out here.  We had a good time.  He said:  Hey, go out there and have fun and enjoy it and go get 'em. 
 

Q.  You touched on it before, but could you just talk a little bit more about -- I don't think you trailed from the 7th hole of the first match.  Jumping on people and keeping them down, how important is that?
 
DAVID GOSSETT:  Yeah, it's extremely important to take advantage of opportunities when you get them. And I did that to the best of my ability.  When you get an opportunity to take a lead and run with it, you need  to do it.  I did a fairly good job with it today.  Although, there were holes like 14 and 16 and 18 that I wasn't pleased with, and that kind of got me a little fired up and ready to go out again.  Although I was 5-up, I was very happy.  But 8 is better than 5. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT