U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 20, 1999
David Gossett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DAVID GOSSETT:  Well, I didn't realize that I hit every fairway.  But, yes, Craig, I played very solid today.  We halved the first three holes.  Hit a good wedge on 4 to about four feet.  Made a 10-footer on 5 to go 2-up.  Then on 8, I made a 10-footer for a good putt for par.  Sand save to go 3-up.  We halved 9.  And 10, hit a good shot in there to about six feet below the hole and made that to go 4-up.  And he hit a good bunker shot there.  It hit the pin and actually just went out, but I made that after he just missed and was 4-up after 10.  So pretty comfortable right there.  Just playing solid golf.  All pars and a few birdies, and really solid golf.  No. 11, to move on, James made about a  10-footer to halve the hole, and it was solid.  Same thing on 12; made about a 7-footer to halve, and then 2-putted for par.  13, hit a good drive, hit a poor shot.  Hit it long and left.  I short-sighted myself, and chopped it around a few times.  Had some fun and missed the putt and lost the hole.  And on 14, I hit two good shots -- or three in a row, good shots, a driver, a 3-wood and an 8-iron to 12 feet below the hole; and did everything I needed to do except for hit it.  I left it short about a foot.  And hit a drive down 15 in the fairway again, Craig, and onto the green, or just left.  Chipped up and made par, to win 4-3.

DAVID GOSSETT:  That gave me confidence, no question.  But I felt pretty comfortable on 8 when I made that 10-footer that broke about a foot and a half to go 3-up.  And then I played No. 9 really, really well. I hit a great drive; and that pin is so tough to stop, made a great putt, almost went in.  I thought the ball would go in on 9.  And then to birdie on 10 to go 4-up,  I felt really comfortable.


Q.  Do you know much about Ben Curtis, who you're playing tomorrow?

DAVID GOSSETT:  I know Ben through Junior Golf, the American Junior Golf Association.  Ben and I have not played a whole lot of golf together, however, in Amateur events in college.  He plays for Kent, and we don't play a whole lot of tournaments together.  But I know Ben and we know each other, and he's a good guy.  And obviously, playing well; so it should be a good match tomorrow.


Q.  18 is such a great hole out here.  Do you feel like you're missing something?

DAVID GOSSETT:  I certainly am.  It's a wonderful hole.  My dad and I came out here last night, and it was such a beautiful day.  We went out and walked down 18 and was soaking it up.  It was gorgeous, as it is now.

DAVID GOSSETT:  I can stay away from it for the next few days.

DAVID GOSSETT:  I shot 80, it was pretty ugly  on the front 9, and we got all our bad shots out of the system, hopefully, and grinded it out and shot 71 at Spyglass on a tough golf course; so that gave me confidence.  And I'm hitting the ball solid, hitting fairways and greens.  Making putts.  Good speed control with my putter.


Q.  What did you have on the front 9?

DAVID GOSSETT:  34.


Q.  When you shot the 80, you said it was pretty ugly -- 42, wasn't it?

DAVID GOSSETT:  Yeah, I shot 7 over on 9 holes.  I was going to hopefully say I forgot.  But you were right on top of that one, weren't you?


Q.  Yesterday with Andy, he was telling us basically you got off to a rotten start, and after that --

DAVID GOSSETT:  Right, it was a rough start. That's over with.  I've played the 1st hole really solid.  I hit a poor shot -- played it poorly on my first match the first few holes, but now I've played the first few holes solid.  I think it's out of my system.


Q.  Do you feel more comfortable with Andy each day now, like he's just a regular guy? 

DAVID GOSSETT:  Right.  The first time we really spent a lot of time together was on Monday.  He was carrying for Tom Lehman, as he was going around Medinah shooting 71 on Sunday, while I was out here practicing.  The first time we spent time together when I was playing, especially when it counts, was Monday. We're getting to know each other better, and we're getting along great.  We work together well.

DAVID GOSSETT:  No.  Well, no, he's doing a great job for me.  I was pleased that he was able to do it.  He loves this golf course, and it's a beautiful place,, perfect venue for a championship, and he volunteered to do it.  It's great.


Q.  Andy said yesterday that he thought maybe his presence made some of the other golfers nervous?

DAVID GOSSETT:  I hope so.  Let's go for it. Let's make some big articles and make it -- let's make it really good, here.  The more, the merrier.  The more we can intimidate from outside agencies, that's great.


Q.  Coming out of high school, you played in the St. Jude Classic and actually made the cut?

DAVID GOSSETT:  Right. 


Q.  And you got to play all four days.  What kind of experience was that for you, and who were you matched up with?

DAVID GOSSETT:  It was an eye-opening experience.  Two months prior to that I played in the Canon Greater Hartford Open, and I shot 69-71, even par, and missed the cut by one.  That was a great experience for me to have under my belt.  Then went onto Memphis, my hometown, and shot 66-70.  Was two back with Nick Price, and it was a wonderful experience.  The weekend, I went swimming a little bit, found some water, and shot 74-77.  But it just really gave me confidence that if I could go out, stay focused to my game, that I can compete at that level and just a great experience, what can I say?  Very valuable.


Q.  You played in the Memphis Classic again this summer?

DAVID GOSSETT:  I played in it again this year.  The scores weren't what I wanted, but the more times you tee up with the big boys, the better, I think.


Q.  You missed the cut?

DAVID GOSSETT:  I missed the cut this year.


Q.  Speaking of playing at that level.  You're  going to be a sophomore at Texas this year.  Do you see yourself turning pro soon, or are you going to --

DAVID GOSSETT:  I'm heading to Austin in a few days; so school starts on the 25th.  I'm going to be there hitting the books here next week.  But I don't know.  I'm going to take it one year at a time.  I like Austin.  I'm playing well, and we just have to see how things go.

DAVID GOSSETT:  Three TOUR events:  The Memphis FedEx St. Jude Classic twice and the Greater Hartford.

DAVID GOSSETT:  I hope so.  I don't know. Obviously, Ben and these other players are playing well, and Hunter, he's -- did well a couple of months ago in the Pub Links.  He played great.  And Porter Cup, that's not too bad, either.  So they're experienced, but, yes, with the people walking in the fairway, that's different.  We had a lot of people in front of us and having to walk around and behind them.  That's different, but you've  just got to -- a lot of distractions this week, really, possible, if you want to let them distract you. There's a gorgeous scene:  You turn around, you've got mountains, ocean, beautiful golf course, comfortable temperature.  I'm used to dripping wet at 7:30 in the morning in Memphis in August; so this is wonderful. I'm having a great time.


Q.  What's your experience with hobnobbing with TOUR players?  Have you talked to Crenshaw?

DAVID GOSSETT:  I have.  Playing in those TOUR events, you know, it's pretty cool.  You have a built-in fraternity when you go to the University of Texas.  There are many PGA TOUR players out there.  And the Hartford was my first TOUR event.  And when I first got out there, Omar Uresti, Justin Leonard, Bob Brooks, they were all there and opened up and were really kind to me, and just kind of making the week a little easier for me.  Ben Crenshaw and Tom Kite, they both live in Austin, and it's great.  I'm really enjoying Austin and the University of Texas.  It's great.  So it's nice to hang out with the past and present Ryder Cup captains.

DAVID GOSSETT:  Well, playing Pebble Beach  isn't too bad for starters, today.  Highlight in golf?

DAVID GOSSETT:  Reaching the semis at the U.S. Amateur is something that I'm proud of.  The American Junior Golf Association Player-of-the-Year is something I'm proud of.  First team All-American, Freshman of the Year, also.  I'm also very proud of representing the United States twice in Junior Golf in the first ever Junior Ryder Cup in Spain.  We went over and won and then watched the players play at Valderrama and Japan in '97.  Also, got to represent the U.S.  It was quite an honor.

DAVID GOSSETT:  That's right.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT