NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: RANGERS v CANADIENS
May 28, 2014
Josh Gorges
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Is there anything you want to change going into Game 5?  
JOSH GORGES:   I don't think we want to change too much, just be a little sharper.  
   
 Q.   Does it help as a group that you've maybe forced the Rangers to lose their composure a bit?   Like the Dorsett incident, and I don't know what the motivation was behind that Moore hit on Weise might have been, but do you think you're getting under their skin as a group?   
JOSH GORGES:   I don't know about that.   I think that's what happens in games when you get late in the game and there is a couple goal difference.   We don't expect that same thing tomorrow night in Game 6.   
So we'll be ready for one of those tight checking games, which I'm sure it will be again one of those hard‑fought games that we'll have to make sure that we're even better than we were last game.  
   
 Q.   Have you had a chance to review the Moore hit on Weise, but what is your thought on that?   
JOSH GORGES:   He caught him in the head.   It's pretty clear when his helmet pops off like that.   I think the refs got the call right, and now we'll wait to see what the league decides to do.  
   
 Q.   A.V. was saying he was still admiring his hit.   The way he described it, he did not acknowledge the hit was point of contact.   Is that the coach protecting his player?   
JOSH GORGES:   Probably.   Like I said, these decisions are out of our hands.   It goes through the league, they do their job, review it, and they'll make a judgment call.   Usually when the helmet pops off like that, it's usually because of a contact to the head, but, again, that's not for me.   That's not for anyone in our room or their room to decide.   That's up to the league, and they'll do their job.  
   
 Q.   Considering how long Alex was out, how impressed are you by the way he's managed to ramp his game up so quickly in the four games that he's played?   
JOSH GORGES:   He's done a great job for us, missing a significant amount of time, and coming back is never easy.   But I thought he's come back with a lot of energy, played some really good hockey for us.   He's going to the dirty areas, and that's where you need to go if you want to score.   90% of the goals are scored right in front of the net, in the crease.   They're not going to be cheap goals, but he's had some success because he's been able to go there.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT