ING NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
November 5, 2010
Gebre Gebremariam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Can you talk about some of the things you've done that make it confident you can handle this difference?   
 GEBRE GEBREMARIAM: When you think about marathons, it's a little bit difficult. So it's the first marathon for me. And you know, New York is going to definitely be tough. It's New York, the course, so I have to try my best. I don't know but I'm excited. I'm really excited.  
  
  Q. How do you feel to be competing against Haile Gebrselassie. I'm sure when you were younger you were also watching him and competing against him on the track?  
 GEBRE GEBREMARIAM: You know, I'm so happy. He's the king of the distance. So I am so happy to be with him. He's from my country, he's my friend, and he advises us some advice. You know, to be here with him is very special for me.  
  
  Q. How is he perceived as a runner and a businessman inside Ethiopia? How is Haile perceived?   
 GEBRE GEBREMARIAM: Haile's special. They hold him very clear. He's a model for us. A role model. He's very special. There is nobody just like him. He's a sportsman, and he's a good guy, a good man.   
 They're very proud about him.  
  
  Q. You're one for one in courses that end at that finish line, so that's got to be encouraging, at least you know how to run the last mile or so, the last couple of miles on the same course, right?   
 GEBRE GEBREMARIAM: Yeah. You know what, I don't know about before. It's up-and-down just a little bit in the 10K too, so it's a little bit difficult. But I follow him just until the last kilometer. But I have the power to move on him. I don't know what it is, the 10K. So it's my first time too. So that's why I follow him. You know, that's 10K. When you run 10K, and when you run a full marathon you know the power is a little bit less in marathon. So I kind of move like at that speed, but I will do my best.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT