ING NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
November 4, 2011
Gebre Gebremariam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How are you feeling right now? 
 GEBRE GEBREMARIAM: I'm feeling very good. I'm feeling good.

 Q. You had an incredible race in Boston. Can you just follow up with what you've been doing since? I know you've done a number of smaller shorter distances? 
 GEBRE GEBREMARIAM: By now I'm not like Road Runner because it's my fourth marathon. So I have to see myself in different areas both in New York, Chicago, even in London. 
 But in Boston, the race is so tough, I didn't believe my time. Because 2:04 in Boston is incredible for me. Yeah, from Boston, I went back to my country and I trained with the world champion. But the only problem with this is the time, the time to prepare for the world championships, because it's rainy season. So we had a little problem, but we prepared, and we participate in that race, so that's all.

 Q. Tell us how excited you were in Boston when you crossed the finish line and saw your time? 
 GEBRE GEBREMARIAM: Yeah, I saw my time, 2:04, so I can't believe it. I just turned to my manager, oh, I'm 2:04, I'm 2:04. So it's my second marathon, and I'm very, very happy. I'm very happy. 
 I can't believe it for myself.

 Q. What will it take to get a very good time on Sunday? 
 GEBRE GEBREMARIAM: Yes, New York is different. It's not like Boston. Maybe they can break the meter record.

 Q. You have experience on the course from last year, whereas that may be an extra advantage. 
 GEBRE GEBREMARIAM: Yeah, I will try my best. I will try my best. To run and run my best here. It's not better than 2:04.

 Q. Were you surprised last year when you won your first marathon? 
 GEBRE GEBREMARIAM: Really, really, yeah. I wanted only to finish. But when I saw into, I mean in 35K, 25K, you know, I'm okay. I haven't any feeling. So today maybe I'm top three, so it was a special day for me. 
 I think that today is very, very special for me, so I'm very, very happy.

 Q. When did you feel comfortable knowing that you had a chance to win last year? 
 GEBRE GEBREMARIAM: In 24 miles. In 24 miles I saw my partner Emanuel Mutai, so he's very, very tired. He's very, very tired, so I saw him several times behind. I'm pretty comfortable in 41K, so that's good.

 Q. What is the biggest difference from last year to this year for you in a marathon? 
 GEBRE GEBREMARIAM: Well, last year -- I told you before -- last year I planned only to finish, but this year maybe everybody waits for me. And everybody expects me to win and run. I know the course, too. Geoffrey Mutai, and even my partner Emanuel Mutai. 
 So everybody I think expects me maybe. So this is a little different for me.

 Q. Is it pressure maybe? 
 GEBRE GEBREMARIAM: Yeah, just everybody expects more from Gebremariam this year because he's the winner last year. So maybe. I did my training very well, and I am in a good health, so we will see. We will see. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT