U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 6, 1996
Bob Charles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BOB CHARLES: That is right.

BOB CHARLES: Well, pretty much the same as yesterday. I got away to the same start as I did yesterday.  Missed the fairway left and had an impossible shot out of the rough, just buried in the rough.  Couldn't get on the green, chipped and 2-putted.  The second hole was a carbon copy of yesterday.  I hit a super tee shot; just little three-quarter wedge to the green - same shot as yesterday - it landed in the middle of the green and, two bounces up the back about 30 feet past the hole.  And 3-putted again just like yesterday.  So that was -- the whole round was just a succession of some good holes, some birdies, and just a lot of bad swings and bogeys.

BOB CHARLES: All right.  Well, the first hole I drive it in the left rough, and as I say, had bad lie in the rough, came out short of the green, chipped it six feet and 2-putted.  Second hole, 3-wood wedge to the back of the green,  3-putt off the back edge.  Then I parred 3.  I parred 4.  Parred 5.  6th hole, I hit a drive and 2-iron to geez, it was only six inches from the hole for an eagle 3.  Parred 7, 8 and 9.  Parred 10.  11:  Hit a bad swing, bad tee shot left rough; had to chip it out sideways.  Actually, I made a par there, didn't I?  Got it up and down on 10.

BOB CHARLES: 11 -- well, I hit a 6-iron on the front edge of the green, 2-putted for a four.  Bad swing, bad tee shot on the next.  I pull-hooked it into the trees.  I had to chip it out sideways; pitched it on; 2-putted for a bogey.  16:  I birdied - yes - drive was in the right rough buried again; hit a tremendous shot with a 7-iron to get it back on the fairway; hit 6-iron to about eight feet and holed the putt for a birdie.  Then 18, good tee shot, hit a horrible, just a wicked swing on the last hole, pull-hooked it short of the green right, skulled my chip about 18 feet past the hole and 2-putted for 5.

BOB CHARLES: What are my thoughts?  Well, it is nice to be playing with the leader of the tournament.  Obviously my skills are nowhere near comparable, but there I am, I am in second place and have the privilege of marking a card for the champion tomorrow.

BOB CHARLES:  Absolutely -- I know I can't the way I am playing.  I am just hacking it from one -- well, I play some holes good.  I had an eagle at the end of the day, and a couple of birdies, but just making too many swing errors to come up with good numbers, and he is playing solid golf.  Mistakes he does make, he gets it up-and-down.  He is just putting beautifully.  He 3-putted from the edge of the -- where was it?  4th, yeah, fourth hole today.  He actually was human in that he missed the putt from five feet, so I guess that is the only putt -- well, the shortest putt I have seen him miss.

BOB CHARLES: In three days, yeah.

BOB CHARLES: Thank you.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT