U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 5, 1996
Bob Charles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BOB CHARLES:  Well, it was just a miserable day from the first hole to the last.  Well, I did have a few good patches in the middle, but to get away to a bogey, bogey start and finish bogey, bogey, it leaves a bad taste in one's mouth.  That is golf.  I had a dream round yesterday and today was a bit of a nightmare. 
 
BOB CHARLES:  Oh, no.  It was everything.  I was missing fairways, missing greens and I was missing confidence. Missing golf swing, everything was missing out there today. 
 
BOB CHARLES:  Well, everybody else must be having trouble out there except for Dave. 
 
BOB CHARLES:  Yeah, well, first hole I drove it in the  rough left and hit what I thought was a good shot, but it flew and out of the rough; went over the green and I played it coming back and actually had to chip and 1-putt for a 5. Bogey.  Second hole, I hit two good shots and the wedge into the green; just hit a hard spot, finished 30 feet past the hole.  Well, I was just off the green, I suppose, and 3-putts.  3rd hole, good iron shot there; bounce to the back of the green again about 50 feet; which I made for a birdie.  Oh, bogey on 7 - hit a bad swing, bad 7-iron which I hooked into the right trap, came out strong and 2-putted from about twelve feet.  8th hole good tee shot, hit a wedge into about eight feet which I made.  9:  Hit a bad tee shot, good iron shot; hit a great third shot with a lob wedge to three or four inches from the hole.  10:  Actually got it up-and-down from -- I spun it back off the green on 10 and made pretty good up-and-down there.  11 was a routine par.  12:  Hit a good tee shot and hit a wedge again into about 15 feet.  13:  Hit a good drive, 5-iron on the green 2-putts, birdie.  
 
BOB CHARLES:  That was 25 feet.  17:  Just made a horrible swing with a 3-iron hooked it in the bunker short and -- way short, and got it on the green about 35 feet and 2-putted for four.  18:  I hit -- my tee shot was a little short and I had to hit a 4-iron second shot which I made another horrible golf swing and put it in the bunker left and came out about ten feet and 2-putted for another bogey. 
 

Q.  Could you talk about playing in the same group with Dave Stockton.  Obviously you were worried about your game, but were you noticing what Dave did, and can you comment on how he played today.
 
BOB CHARLES:  Well, yeah.  I mean, it is a pleasure to see a master craftsman at work on the greens like -- he was quite incredible today.  I mean, he just drained everything he looked at, and, you know, 20-footers, 30-footers, they were just going in with regularity.  It is great to see somebody with such a good putting stroke and so much confidence on the greens and that was what I was totally lacking, totally devoid of today, was any kind of confidence on the greens with my putting stroke and I paid the penalty as a result.  And I think that probably affected to a degree, the rest of my game, which  had a total lack of confidence.  But Dave is playing well and just doing everything. When he hits a bad shot, he gets it up-and-down.  That is what you have got to do to come up with good numbers and to win tournaments. 
 
BOB CHARLES:  Well, yeah, in my youth I had a reputation, but, you know, it is -- 
 
BOB CHARLES:  My confidence level fluctuates somewhat and as of late it has been a little-- it was good yesterday, but certainly wasn't today. 
 

Q.  Did your confidence level drop before you came to the course today or after the first two holes?
 
BOB CHARLES:  How would it drop before you come to the course? 
 

Q.  I don't know.
 
BOB CHARLES:  No.  When you make a horrible bogey on the first hole, your confidence level drops, sure.  I mean, if I birdied the first hole, that would have -- then my confidence level would have an enormous lift, but no, I felt great.  I hit the ball solid on the practice tee.  My practice session before playing was-- my  swing felt very good. 
 
BOB CHARLES:  Well, it was lucky, you see, that was not much skill in that.  It was just a lot of luck in that. 
 

Q.  I was wondering if there is any connection between you and Stockton playing in the same group for two days and the first day you shoot the low score, the second day he shoots the low score, is there anything that you learned from each other or anything like that?
 
BOB CHARLES:  Well, no, you know, only thing I learn from Dave Stockton is -- well, is, you know, I look at somebody who has incredible confidence in his ability.  My confidence fluctuates.  It is up one day; down the next.  I mean, his is on a high level day after day after day, and he is obviously seeing the right shrink and maybe I should get his phone number. 
 

Q.  How many putters did you bring with you this week and are you thinking about --
 
BOB CHARLES:  Two. 
 

Q.  -- are you thinking about making a change.
 
BOB CHARLES:  Yeah, I got Nick Faldo's Odyssey, what's her name, II and Steve Jones's, I am going with the winners, as I said yesterday.  (LAUGHTER)  But I thought maybe the confidence level, you know, you have got to have the right thoughts going through your mind to be able to manipulate the weapons, right? 
 

Q.  Are you going to stick with the same putter tomorrow that you used the first two days.
 
BOB CHARLES:  Oh, yes, yes.  Yeah, it's -- I guess I will have to.  Any time from now until darkness, if I can get on the green, maybe try and find the stroke or whatever. 
 

Q.  Over the course of the many years you have played, I am sure you have had parallel situations where you started out well, faultered a bit; then got back on track.  Is there anything you can summon from past experience to help yourself get into a good frame of mind right from the start tomorrow?
 
BOB CHARLES:  Oh, what will get me in a good frame of mind?  I don't know.  I suppose, you know, a good session on the range.  My frame of mind is very erratic.  I don't know.  That is an unknown -- an unknown quantity. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT