RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 23, 2010
Rob Grube
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Rob, star of the Canadian Tour. That gets you in here, gives you a chance. You go wild on the back side. Tell me about 14, 15, 17 and 18. 
 ROB GRUBE: Yeah. It was a funny round. I was kind of stuck in neutral most of the day, and then I had two really good shots on 14, and that got me going, and chipped in on 15. And hit two great shots on 17 and 18. So it was good to get something out of the round.

 Q. The 14th hole, it's one of the toughest ones out here. You holed out yesterday on it and then you made birdie on it today. No big deal to you, huh?
 ROB GRUBE: I guess. I hit two really good drives there, and that's the key. If you don't hit a good drive, you're scrambling, but if you do, you can make birdie, or eagle actually.

 Q. You play the Canadian Tour. How much different is this golf course from what you guys are used to playing?
 ROB GRUBE: Not much. I mean it's a little bit harder, but the Canadian Tour does a good job of setting their courses up in a very similar fashion to a Nationwide or PGA, so I feel like I'm well prepared from that perspective.

 Q. You're an American kid. Do you get any kinship, any feeling of, yeah, okay, I'm playing up in Canada? Are the Canadians rooting for you at all yet?
 ROB GRUBE: Not yet.

 Q. They will. 
 ROB GRUBE: Hopefully. Hopefully. 
 But no, it's been nice. The Canadians have been very nice to me the past two summers that I've been up here, so you know, it's fun to be here.

 Q. It's still the same game, isn't it? I've had younger players tell me that. Alex Prugh early in the year got off to a great start. You know him from the Pac-10 days. Alex said, it's still 151 yards in, no matter what tour it is, no matter where you're playing. Is that kind of the attitude you've taken toward this week?
 ROB GRUBE: Yeah. The hole's the same size. So just play golf, and if you hit good shots, you'll be rewarded; if you don't, you don't. So yeah, same stuff.

 Q. This golf course, you gotta hit it in the fairway. You've had good luck in doing that. It's tough to make pars from the rough, isn't it?
 ROB GRUBE: Yeah. Driving is one of my strengths. So I knew coming into this week that if you hit it well, you'd be rewarded and you could actually shoot some good scores, but if you didn't --

 Q. Putter is working, too. That 28-footer on the last one was nice. 
 ROB GRUBE: Yeah. That always helps. 

 Q. Congratulations on the good round. They're going to be playing late tomorrow. Good luck. 
 ROB GRUBE: Thanks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT