ICC WOMEN'S WORLD T20
March 3, 2020
Anisa Mohammed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
West Indies/South Africa - match abandoned due to rain   
 Q.  The rain obviously meant you couldn't try and go out with a positive result. How do you just sum up the feeling in the camp after the tournament?  
ANISA MOHAMMED: It's a bit disappointing to have to leave and not even go to the semifinals. We would have liked to play tonight and hopefully go home with a win. Unfortunately it wasn't to be.   
 Q.  Do you see positives from this tournament for the future? Your coach spoke the other day about some of the issues particularly with the batting. Have you already started to look at what you might need to address for the future?  
ANISA MOHAMMED: So many positives coming out of this tournament. I thought in the field we looked really well. As a bowling unit we bowled really well. Going back, we're going to have to work on our batting, and that's something we're going to have to look at when we get back home.   
 Q.  I remember you saying ahead of your second game that you wanted the batters to step up. Clearly they didn't do that. Why?  
ANISA MOHAMMED: That's a very hard question. Obviously we had wanted them to step up, but it just didn't.   
 Q.  What do you put that down to? There's been all sorts of things raised, sort of issues of not being aggressive enough, not being positive enough, but in terms of hitting boundaries and running between the wickets, did you think you were sort of in any way timid in this tournament?  
ANISA MOHAMMED: I think it's maybe a lack of confidence because in the nets the players hit the balls very well, so I think it's just a matter of players believing in themselves, and when they go out in the middle, just execute what they have been practicing.   
 Q.  West Indies have always seemed a confident team, a team that backed themselves to perform on any given day. Where has that confidence slipped in the last few months?  
ANISA MOHAMMED: I think that's an individual thing. Players have to pick themselves up. Management or anyone can go out and give advice, but at the end of the day, it's up to the player to go out there and execute.   
 Q.  Do you feel that you've missed out on the chance to prove yourselves again, not being able to play tonight? Do you think you needed it to show people that you are still capable of performances?  
ANISA MOHAMMED: Yeah, definitely. I think we'd like to go home with a win. Knowing also that we'd be playing against South Africa in a couple months, we would have liked to go out there, played tonight, win and go into that competition with a win.   
 Q.  And Gus said the other day that you might be struggling to field a full 11 for this game. What's the latest on the injuries? Obviously it doesn't matter for the tournament, but how is the team shaping up looking forward?  
ANISA MOHAMMED: I don't really have much on injuries. That's something the physio is going to have to answer.   
 Q.  In terms of looking ahead, how does West Indies progress from this because it's not been a great few years for you in T20 overall?  
ANISA MOHAMMED: Well, we have a regional tournament in a couple weeks. After that we play against South Africa, and then we head off to Sri Lanka for the World Cup qualifiers. So we have a lot of cricket coming up, and we know as players we're going to have to step up.   
 Q.  Do you think that regional tournament could give other players outside of this group the chance to put their hands up? I think there are 11 players from the last tournament that survived; do you think we could see some new faces going forward?  
ANISA MOHAMMED: Definitely. You never know. We have a lot of talent coming up in the West Indies. There's quite a few players who are showing a lot of promise, so you never know; hopefully we might see some new faces.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT