PACIFIC-12 CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 7, 2012
Trent Lockett
Herb Sendek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   Coach, an opening remark, please? 

Q.   We've kind of seen this before where you guys have gotten off to a slow start and played better in the second half.   Do you have any idea why you guys got off to such a slow start? 
COACH SENDEK:   I really don't.   I asked the team the same question.   I thought defensively we were on our heels early.   They were very much the aggressor.   
Obviously we ran into a tremendous performance by a fantastic young player in Randle, and we just never were able to regroup.

Q.   Could you talk about Randle's performance a little bit and what you saw out of him tonight? 
TRENT LOCKETT:   Randle's obviously a great player.   He really got to the line a lot in the first half.   I think that got him going.   He hit open shots.   He's a great player.   He really looked to push it in transition as well.

Q.   What was your feeling on the start?   You guys looked a little overwhelmed. 
TRENT LOCKETT:   Yeah, like Coach said, we didn't come out ready to play.   They're a very physical and aggressive team and they put us on our heels.   Unfortunately we picked it up in the second half, but it was far too late.

Q.   There didn't seem to be any carryover from Sunday.   I know it's a brand new day.   Did you expect any momentum to carry through or anything? 
COACH SENDEK:   Well, we talked about that throughout the week.   The only possible carryover is what you take from a confidence standpoint moving forward, self‑confidence.   But it's a new game, and it requires a totally fresh performance, so...

Q.   I know this season probably didn't end‑‑ or the whole season wasn't what you were expecting.   What is this off‑season for you going to be about? 
COACH SENDEK:   It will really be like it always is.   It will be an opportunity for us to evaluate everything, to learn as much as we can, and hopefully our players will have a great work ethic throughout the off‑season.   During the off‑season it's really up to them to be self-motivated because of all the great limitations we have and what we can do with them, then just putting together a great plan for next season, which we always try to do between seasons.

Q.   Any thoughts on the league and why it's struggled a little bit this year, at least in the big picture from a national perspective? 
COACH SENDEK:   Yeah, I don't know.   I haven't paid a great deal of attention to it.   I kind of have my nose to the grindstone a little bit, so I'm not fully aware of all that is said and written and all that kind of stuff. 
But it seems to be a reoccurring theme.   I think back to a couple years ago when we finished second in this conference in the regular season and didn't get a bid.   I think that was the first time in BCS college basketball history.   So it seems to be repeating.   As you listen to the pundits about who has a bid secured from our league right now and who doesn't, whether they're accurate or not, only the committee knows where people stand going into the weekend. 
But right now, from what I saw today, only this tournament champion is a lock.

Q.   Does that concern you?   Does that worry you? 
COACH SENDEK:   I think over the span of time, it's an anomaly.   If you look at the breadth of history, those occurrences are far and few between.   But I do think our league has represented itself exceptionally well when we have gotten into the tournament. 
If you look back to the year I referred to, that year Cal and Washington got in, I think Washington might have made it to the Elite Eight.   Cal had a good first round win over Louisville, and there was a similar feeling in the air during that conference tournament.

Q.   Can you just describe what the season's been like for you with so many hurdles to go through? 
TRENT LOCKETT:   Yeah, like you said, we've had a lot of ups and downs and situations that we've had to deal with.   But overall going into the off‑season we have obviously plenty of motivation.   I don't think anybody should have a reason not to work hard this off‑season. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT