SAN DIEGO STATE UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 6, 2012
Nik Embernate
Derek Largent
Bryce Quigley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.   So you guys came in with a two‑game losing streak.   What are your feelings to win a game? 
NIK EMBERNATE:   It's good for us.   All week we were just preaching like we've got to get back on course.   We've got to play how we're supposed to play.   So it's a great win for us. 
DEREK LARGENT:   Same thing on defense.   Coming back off some iffy games we had.   But this game was really huge for us, and we're happy we won.

Q.   Do you think the defense worked on the quarterback tonight? 
DEREK LARGENT:   I definitely felt that.   So it's all we've been working on in practice all week.   So, yeah, we did.

Q.   The strip down defensively, does that make a difference, do you think, the fact that you stripped down the defense? 
DEREK LARGENT:   Well, I mean, it doesn't really matter what he does.   In the end, as long as we all have the game plan and we're all on the same page, it doesn't really matter what happens.

Q.   Would you describe the 31‑yard touchdown pass? 
NIK EMBERNATE:   I mean, it was a screen pass, so I mean, we just all got out, made our blocks, and then Adam's running down, and he's not going down.   We all think let's just push him in the end zone, get that work horse in the end zone because he deserves it.

Q.   You guys were looking for (Indiscernible).   You were in there, right? 
NIK EMBERNATE:   Yeah.

Q.   Was that the mentality? 
NIK EMBERNATE:   Yeah, our coaches preach finish, and finish blocks and stuff like that.   That's just part of finishing blocks.   He's pumping his legs, working hard.   It would be selfish of us just to stand back there and watch him work by himself.

Q.   And he's that type of runner, he runs hard?
NIK EMBERNATE:   He runs hard.   He deserves to be in that end zone.

Q.   You guys on the offensive line, how much easier is Ryan Katz making it for you guys?
BRYCE QUIGLEY:   It's nice to be able to have that ability.   As the offensive line, we've got to give him more time.   If we can give him more time, he can keep his eyes down field and he doesn't have to use his legs so much.   So that's on the offensive line as a whole. 
NIK EMBERNATE:   I wouldn't say it's easier.   I mean, we've just got to protect him better and not let him get hit so much that way he can throw the ball instead of scrambling.

Q.   Having said that, a couple of the plays by design tonight he had to scramble.   How nice is it when you guys did that?   How nice is it to have a guy that can do that? 
NIK EMBERNATE:   Yeah, it's fun.   It keeps the defense on their toes.   They don't really know what's going to come.   So having him be able to run is pretty good.   And those are designed quarterback runs on some of them that he's doing, so I think it's fun.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
NIK EMBERNATE:   No, no, we didn't add anymore.   We've had them all.   Just the way that their defense was showing to the run, we were just able to recall a couple more of them.












END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT