THE PRESIDENTS CUP
December 12, 2019
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Thoughts on today?
GEOFF OGILVY: They played well but the rest of the guys played great. We've never been 4-1 up after Thursday, so we're pretty excited about this.
Q. Louis started brilliantly.
GEOFF OGILVY: Louis and Ancer -- Louis is a master at this format. He loves it. He's the clown on the bus. Everybody loves him and he fires everybody up and Ancer is our little secret weapon this week. He's fired up and ready to go. He's cocky and confident and he wants to take them all on. That was great up the back to show all the other guys that we have a match way up there and all the other boys rallied and played well.
Patrick made a massive putt on 16, every credit, and Hideki on top of him on 17. We couldn't ask for a better first day.
Q. What about Adam Scott?
GEOFF OGILVY: This is his ninth time and he's like sick of not winning, right, so he's been really revved up this week. He's been firing the boys up, and sometimes you pay attention to everyone else and maybe you don't pay attention to yourself.
He's a class act, and he's not going to get impatient. He knows the course better than anyone else, so yeah, Adam, he's the class in our team. Not surprising to see him play well.
Q. What about Cameron Smith? He was practicing. Are you going to put him out there?
GEOFF OGILVY: You'll find out about in half an hour. He hit balls for ten minutes and just said, I want to go out and follow. He followed all day. He buys into the spirit of the team thing and he loves it and he's bouncing out of his skin. If he does find his way into the draw tomorrow, he's going to be ready to go.
Q. What do you say to the team now?
GEOFF OGILVY: Well, you have to win 15 1/2 points to win the tournament, and we've got four. Still a long way to go from there. It's going to be pats on the back, this is a good start, but let's keep going. Golf and match play both are moment -- based games. Pick it up tomorrow morning and keep it.
Royal did great. All the guys on the American Team are coming up and going, "Wow, I didn't know it was this good." They love it. It's not long by any stretch of the imagination today in modern day terms but it's all they can ask for and it asks guys to hit shots they don't hit every given week. You see the class rise up, but once you have the smarts to hit a way from the pin at the right time, they are doing it and getting rewarded for it. It's balance, a lot of birdies and a bit of hanging on, so it's got a bit of everything, Royal Melbourne.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT