WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 26, 2009
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Extra holes in the match, just talk about that a little bit and let us know what the deal was. 
 GEOFF OGILVY: It was a bit of a substandard ball striking day for me. I hit a lot of drivers in the desert. I got lucky most times. I had one unplayable, but I had some sort of shot most times. I got lucky in that respect. Didn't hit it good enough, but I hit some good shots on the last few holes when I needed to hit really good shots. And that's all you can do when you're a couple down with a few to play, just hit good shots. 
 Hopefully you might get a little help from the other guy as well. You do good stuff and you put the ball close and it puts pressure on him. And today I got kind of lucky him bogeying the 18th, letting me go to the 19th. And then he hit it in the junk on the 19th. 
 So I kind of in the end got kind of lucky, but I played kind of well in that little stretch in there before we got to 18. So I did what I had to do and I got let off the hook a little bit. 

 Q. After the approach shots to 17 were you trying to put the inevitable out of your mind or did you still think that there was a good chance of pulling it out?
 GEOFF OGILVY: I thought I was all right. I mean, up-and-down wasn't that hard. I actually wasn't that happy with -- well, it was, I never assumed I was going to make bogey. 
 Obviously when he's hitting his putt, he's a good putter, I mean he made some good putts, you expect him to hole it. Psychologically I guess it's better when you expect him to hole it, so when he doesn't, that's a good thing psychologically, that kind of thing. 
 I wasn't prepared to shake hands quite at that point. Obviously it wasn't looking that good after the second shot, but I've had enough crazy things happen in the last few holes at this tournament to know that it's not over until you're shaking hands. So I wasn't happy with the situation on 17, but I wasn't giving up hope. 

 Q. That experience the year you won it when you got out of jail a million times, did that help?
 GEOFF OGILVY: Sure, yeah, I mean it's never, you know it's never over. I mean it's just never over. I really didn't look -- I was 2-down going down 15 and I was 50 yards in the desert. And he's right of the green on a short par-4, it didn't look very good. 
 He didn't end up making, we halved with pars and I hit a great shot on 16 and now one with two is really doable and I thought I would be three with three and now I'm one with two. And one with two feels really good, because I had momentum on my side, because I had won 16. 
 And it is what it is, I mean weird things happen. I mean yesterday I was 2-up with two to play and didn't feel like I did that much wrong and all of a sudden I'm going down 19 yesterday. So it was kind of a bit of a reversal.

 Q. Looks like you got Camilo tomorrow, what do you got to look forward to there?
 GEOFF OGILVY: He is obviously playing well, he hasn't played too many holes yet. So he's obviously playing very well. But I'll have obviously have to play a little better than I did today, but it's pretty close -- I mean you can't play well every day, you're going to play six matches, you can't play well in everyone of them. 
 So you just got to hope you get through the ones, you got to scrap through those when you have the scrappy day. And hopefully tomorrow is the day and I come out and I'm playing well and maybe he doesn't, maybe he's due for a bad one, I don't know. 

 Q. Seemed like there was a little more breeze out there today. Did it play with your shots a little bit?
 GEOFF OGILVY: A little bit. 

 Q. Was club selection difficult?
 GEOFF OGILVY: Club selection is difficult because it goes so far downwind it's astonishing. I mean it's 310 or something to the bunker on the 18th and I hit 5-wood nearly in it and he hit 3-wood in it. And 310 yards, I mean it's no way. 
 So it's hard to drop enough clubs downwind off the tee. And it's incredible how far it goes, because it's running a lot as well. 
 Into the wind it kind of does what you expect it, but downwind it just goes forever. Because we're at altitude and it's hot in the desert and we're hitting it a long way. The wind just adds it that, how far they're going downwind.

 Q. Clutch putt on 17, wasn't it?
 GEOFF OGILVY: It was just a right-to-left type of putt. Yeah, I hit a good putt. It wasn't a hard putt, it was just a gentle slope. I would rather it be a foot, not 12, but again it's character building when you hole out putts. 

 Q. Did you help look for the ball on one?
 GEOFF OGILVY: Yeah, I was looking for the ball. We ended up finding it. It seemed a long way up there. Because he hit it in there this morning with a driver. And it was further back. So it must have -- I don't know. So there was enough people in there.

 Q. Did you find it this morning?
 GEOFF OGILVY: I found it this morning. Someone else found it this afternoon.

 Q. You found it this morning?
 GEOFF OGILVY: Yeah, and he ended up making par. He chipped it out, hit it on the green, and made a long putt for par. And we halved the hole. I mean, I was looking for it, but what do you do? 

 Q. He was basically dead.
 GEOFF OGILVY: Well, he had to take an unplayable and then his unplayable rolled right up next to a rock. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT