FBR OPEN
January 31, 2009
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You went off at 9:10 in the morning, the first off No. 1. You're going to have a little better tee time for the final round after playing 6-under, 9-under for the championship.   
 GEOFF OGILVY: Yeah, I'm back closer to the lead than I was when I started. I guess that's the goal on Saturday when you're in the middle of the field. I played really well. It's a perfect time to start. You get perfect greens for the first nine holes, and it's another perfect day in Scottsdale, so today was a good one.  
  
  Q. You were able to put together several runs of birdies. Was the putter working well?  
 GEOFF OGILVY: I putted very well. I drove the ball for the most part really well, and I made a bunch of putts, 15-, 20-footers, three, four, five of those, and you don't do that every day, so when you do it's nice to kind of string them all together and have them all in one day.  
  
  Q. You have to feel very comfortable at this golf course.   
 GEOFF OGILVY: Yeah, I play here a lot, and obviously the weather, and I get used to playing in the desert because I live here, so it's a familiar feeling around here and there's a lot of familiar faces in the crowd, so I enjoy it here.  
  
  Q. You got to play with one of the young up-and-coming golfers, Ricky Fowler, playing here as an amateur, the college Player of the Year. Tell us a little bit about Ricky's game.   
 GEOFF OGILVY: Fantastic player. You wouldn't know he was an amateur unless someone told you. He hits the ball great. He putts great. His short game is fantastic. He seems to think very well out there. I can't see why he doesn't have a good future. He's as good as anyone out here already, I think.  
  
  Q. You went on a roll here. Was everything working all at once?  
 GEOFF OGILVY: Just golf comes and goes. I don't know, I can't really explain it. If I knew why it was working, I'd be able to fix it when I was playing bad. I just had a good round. I feel real relaxed, took quite a lot of time off last year, only played about three or four tournaments -- like three tournaments in the last three months of last year, so I guess a lot of time off. It keeps your enthusiasm high, and then when the putter is working -- if I knew why I was playing well, like I said, I'd be able to fix it when I was playing bad.  
  
  Q. So it's one of those things where you don't want to try to over analyze yourself and keep going?  
 GEOFF OGILVY: I'll just keep doing it. It's going well. Obviously I live in Scottsdale, so I'm comfortable here. I started the year really well a few weeks ago in Maui, so yeah, I'm not going to be right next to the lead. I think they'll still make some birdies and have several holes to play, but I like my place better than when I started today, and have another good one tomorrow and I might have a chance.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT