SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 15, 2009
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DOUG MILNE: Geoff, we've certainly seen a lot of you in the past week and a half, thanks for your time, we appreciate it. Considering the wind today here at the Sony Open in Hawaii in round one, 4-under, you can't be unhappy with that. Just a few comments on the course and the wind and the round.   
 GEOFF OGILVY: First, yeah, I'm happy with 4-under, this morning, I didn't think many people would be shooting under par. It was pretty blustery and rain on the ground, and I thought it would be a pretty poor day.   
 It's a pretty nice day, really, apart from the wind. Got off to a decent start and played in a good group. We all shot under par, we all had a decent day. It was a lot more playable than it first seemed like it might be. We all drove the ball quite well. It's a tricky place when you're in the rough.   
 So most of the time, we are on the fairway and stuff, and we all had a pretty good day. It's tricky but doable. If you hit some good shots, you can make some birdies. Tricky, but doable.   
 DOUG MILNE: Is there a carryover effect from last week? Are you still in that mode?   
 GEOFF OGILVY: A little bit. It definitely helps. I just think everyone who played last week is at an advantage coming here I think, because they have all got a week of tournament golf under their belt, a week in the wind under their belt, same sort of grass.   
 So I think just playing last week is an advantage and obviously playing well last week, you have a lot of confidence coming here, as well. It's just I guess you get back to business as usual and just keep trying to hit good golf shots. And today, I hit a few more.   
  
  Q. What's the most difficult thing going from Kapalua to this course?  
 GEOFF OGILVY: It looks very narrow. Kapalua you have so much space, and it's really quite difficult from those fairways at Kapalua. Here, it's really quite difficult to hit them.   
 Most things about this place seem a lot easier because you don't have to deal with the elevation changes, and the greens seem a lot flatter and more reasonable, easier to read and more reasonable to putt on. It's trickier and you've got to fit the ball into this course and play smart off the tee, because it's really tough to hit fairways, because from the rough, this place is really hard, so if you hit the fairways, is a big key to this place and it gets a lot better.   
 So the 100-ward wide fairways last week and 20-yard wide fairways would be the difference. Here you have a feeling of being reined in, and at Kapalua, you feel like you can smash it anywhere.  
  
  Q. Playing as well as you are, does it make any difference -- are you dialed in?  
 GEOFF OGILVY: When you play well, you can definitely play well at a lot of places. But there's definitely places, well, for me, anyway, guys like Tiger seem to be able to play well everywhere. But I definitely have my sort of places that I seem to do well when I'm playing well. I've been to other places where I felt like I've played well and I got the best out of it.   
 So there's definitely still some advantage to being at a place that you like or that you do well. But when you play well, when you're playing as well as I'm playing at the moment, you would hope to be playing -- be contending at most of the courses, yeah.   
  
  Q. Can we go over your birdies?  
 GEOFF OGILVY: I started off 10. We all drove it just short of the front right bunker. I hit a bad little wedge shot and missed the green and actually chipped in for birdie. That was a bit of a bonus at the start. It wasn't the hardest chip in the world, but nice way to start.   
 And then bogeyed 13. Drove it in the rough and had a slash at it, but got it 30 yards short of the green and hit a decent pitch shot up to about three, four, five feet maybe and missed that. It's not really that tragic on 13, a lot of people are going to bogey that hole, even on a nice day like today, it's playing pretty tough.   
 I birdied 15 maybe. That was a 3-iron and a sand iron. That was probably one of the simple holes out here today, hit it four or five feet and made it for birdie.  
 18 drove it in the bunker off the least. It's pretty tricky, that tee shot, but the last bunker, there's hardly any lip, and I hit a 3-iron 80 yards short and a sand iron to 10, 15 feet and made it.  
 Bogey 3. That's playing really hard. They moved the tee up about eight yards but it's still hard. I hit iron off the tee just because the water kind of juts out of. I was on the fairway and missed the green right with a 5-iron and flubbed a chip and then had to get up-and-down for bogey.   
 Birdied the next. I think I hit 7-iron on the next pin-high about 15 feet and made it.   
 7, I hit 8-iron to probably eight feet and made it.   
 9 was 9-iron just short of the green and up-and-down from just in front. It was playing pretty short, the 9th.   
  
  Q. Are you having a lot of fun?  
 GEOFF OGILVY: Yeah, so far. It's been nice. I was in a good group today. It's nice when your whole group is going well. Boo is always fun to play with, and Kenny is one of the nicest guys in the world, so it was a nice group and nice that we all had a good one. It was good.   
  
  Q. Do you start another beard now?  
 GEOFF OGILVY: No, I shaved last night. I had a decent day so maybe I have to run the opposite superstition this week. I quite like the feeling of clean shaven, so I'll stick to it this week maybe.   
 DOUG MILNE: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT