SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 13, 2009
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOHN BUSH: We had like to welcome Geoff Ogilvy into the interview room here at the Sony Open in Hawaii after his win at the Mercedes-Benz Championship last week. Thank you for coming by and spending a few minutes with us. If we can just get some comments on your week, fantastic start to the season.
 GEOFF OGILVY: Yeah, what do you say? Last week was a perfect start. Can't start the year any better than that with a win, so I'm pretty excited about that. Excited how well I played. And happy to get another week in Hawaii in paradise. It's a very nice way to start the year.
 JOHN BUSH: And a carryover from your win of the Australian Open in December; just talk about your confidence level right now.
 GEOFF OGILVY: Yeah, I'm playing well. The last few months, it's been really good. I've had quite a lot of time off after the end of the FedExCup and didn't play much in the fall. I didn't play any in the fall. I played one in China and a couple in Australia, but only three events in three months, but I played all of them well and I got to last week and still played well.
 Maybe a bit of time off agreed with me and I needed it, and I'm feeling pretty good about it. Golf is a funny game, it comes and goes, but at the moment it feels pretty good.
 JOHN BUSH: And some comments about being here at the Sony Open in Hawaii, and have you played the course yet this week?
 GEOFF OGILVY: I haven't played the course yet this week, but I've heard it's in good shape. I haven't been here for a couple of years, so we'll see. I've never had that much success here. Although the last time I came here, I had some sort of Top-10, so I want to be able to drag that one up.
 What's this, '09? That was '07; I had a reasonable week here. Apart from that, I've never really played that great but last time I played here, I played quite well and I really quite enjoyed it.
 So I may do a little practice this afternoon, but I'm definitely going to play the golf course tomorrow morning in the Pro-Am and check it all out. I don't think it's been changed too much over the last few years.

 Q. Full-field event this week, 144 guys, and last week, 33 guys, but they have all won, multiple times, certainly in, their careers. Was last week easier, against maybe a more experienced, more winning field?
 GEOFF OGILVY: That's a hard one to work out. The 33 guys who are there, the leaderboard at the end was probably what the leaderboard at the end of a normal tournament would look like. I think Anthony Kim has been on every leaderboard for quite a long time, and Davis was playing great and Ernie was up there, and Kenny Perry seems to be on every leaderboard; and they would be up there on a full-field event. So it's hard to know if it's any different. You would assume it's going to be harder in a full-field event. It would be harder in a full-field event if you had those 33 plus the other 111. But if you had 144 without those guys in it, it might be a little different. I don't know, that he the great unknown.

 Q. Talk a little bit about your schedule, Geoff, after this week, what do you expect over the next month or two?
 GEOFF OGILVY: Yeah, I have a week off after this, and then I play the Phoenix Open, which is a home week for me. Then probably have two more weeks off to spend a bit more time in Scottsdale and then get stuck right in with L.A. and the Match Play, and then two weeks later we are in Doral. Two WGC's in three weeks is going to be a big stretch, and then lead-up to the Masters.
 A couple of extra weeks -- an extra week off than I normally would take on the West Coast, but that's because we have got the two WGC's right there in March, and the Match Play can be a long week if you go all the way. So just build up gradually for the Masters.
 JOHN BUSH: Thank you, Geoff.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT