SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
November 5, 2016
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. It was just an inch there on 18 for a perfect finish there, almost five straight for you.
GEOFF OGILVY: Yeah, that's kind of how you've got to do it on this course a little bit.  The front nine is doable if you hit really good shots, but it's kind of tricky on the front, and then you get to about 13 and the whole course opens up, and you really kind of got to put a score together before you get to 13 and then really make a few coming in, and did I that, which was nice.  17 is a bonus birdie.  That's a pretty hard shot, that one, and I hit a really good shot there.  Yeah, wedge into the last, and hit a good shot and hit a decent putt, but any time you shoot under par is good, and I moved closer to the top of the lead than I was at the start of the day, and that's all you can ask for.
Q. Talk about your consistency:  67, 67 and 66 here over the three days.
GEOFF OGILVY: Yeah, it's been nice.  Had a big break kind of the end of the summer.  Not too many Playoffs to play in for me, so I had a big break, and I was a bit rusty when I came back to Napa and Jackson last week, so it's nice to hit a few better shots and roll a few putts in really, which is a big difference.  Hopefully it hangs around somewhat close to the lead.  As I said, the finish here is pretty gettable, so I'm sure guys will get a few better than where I'm at right now, but I'm within a shout tomorrow, for sure.
Q. Do you rest this afternoon or is there something you're going to work on?
GEOFF OGILVY: No, I'm not going to work on much.  I'm not much for practicing too much after I play.  I kind of, I think, rest, especially when you get as old as me.  I rest as much as anything else.  I might hit a few putts.  I'll probably go and have some food and probably once I start watching football on TV, I'll probably be stuck in front of a TV.
Q. How did you see your round today?
GEOFF OGILVY: Yeah, it was kind of like how Summerlin usually goes.  The front nine is pretty tricky.  You can make birdies on the front, but it's tricky.  If you can get to 13 doing half decently, you've got a par-5, a short par-3, drivable par-4, reachable par-5 all in a row, so you've got to make your score toward the end of the back nine, and I managed to hit a few good shots and had a few birdies late.  I'm closer to the lead now than I was at the start of today, so that's really all you can ask for on a Saturday.
Q. How consistent is your game so far this week?
GEOFF OGILVY: It's pretty good.  I'm hitting it really well.  I haven't made everything, but I'm hitting really good putts, and I haven't missed any short ones.  All my longer ones kind of look like they're going in halfway.  So yeah, it all feels really good.  I'm happy with where it's at, and hopefully they don't finish up too well today and I've got some sort of a shout tomorrow and I can put up a pretty good one tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT