HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 10, 2008
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Verdict on the day and the week if you would.   
 GEOFF OGILVY: It was okay today. Obviously one short in the end. I played tardy without having a lot of chances. I didn't have a whole lot of chances. It was long birdie putts most of the time. I got up-and-down when I missed greens and made a couple good birdies at the end to make it a flattering-looking result.   
 But pretty good. I haven't played for eight weeks at least, so to have a week like that is pretty good.  
  
  Q. When you say you haven't been playing and your expectations probably were not the highest coming in, you'll reflect in a couple of weeks and say, that's a good start to the season?  
 GEOFF OGILVY: I'm very happy with that. Look, as I say, after eight weeks off, never know what's going to happen, and pretty rough the first six, seven holes on Thursday and obviously the rain delay helped me out and I had a great round the second round and then carried on from there. Putted nicely, which is usually what you don't do well after eight weeks off. Chipping and putting take a while to come back, but that was the best part of my game this week. That's good.  
 I have a couple of weeks off, playing two of our bigger ones in Australia, and then back out next year.  
  
  Q. Will we see more of you on The European Tour this year to come?  
 GEOFF OGILVY: Yeah, for sure. I'm going to play as many as I can that fits my schedule. It might not be until -- well, it may not be until April or May, but I'm hoping to get over to England in May, and I'm hoping to get over to play a bunch around the British Open. So more than I have the last few years for sure.  
  
  Q. The Race to Dubai certainly appeals?  
 GEOFF OGILVY: Yeah, without a doubt. Obviously the money is great. But it's not the be-all and end-all. It adds a bit of diversity to the world of golf, and it's mixed up my schedule so I can go and play everywhere now and play the schedule I kind of want to play; it gave me an incentive to do that, anyway, and for that, it's good.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT