U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 13, 2008
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Full Audio Interview 
   
Q. Thoughts on the day? 
  GEOFF OGILVY: Not as good as yesterday. It was okay. Obviously even par is great after two rounds. I probably had a pretty decent score because I felt a played pretty scrappy. I was 2-under after 4, having 2-over for the day is pretty good. 
   
Really it should have been easier today, but it didn't seem that easy  
to me, maybe that's because I wasn't playing quite as well. We  
should have had a lot easier time of it. The greens were  
definitely softer when you play in the morning, and they definitely  
roll a bit nicer when you play in the morning.  
   
But 13 tee was back and the 3rd tee is back, and it's really  
hard. From the front tee it's a legitimate birdie tee. I'm  
happy with what I got. 
   
   
Q. If you had said Wednesday night, you had been out here  
playing for a few days, at least a week you've been here, would you  
have thought the best score in the clubhouse would be 1-under? 
  GEOFF OGILVY: After yesterday I thought, no, someone will get to 4-under after today. There must be some trickier pins, it must be harder today, because the scores were better yesterday morning than this morning, right? Just a guess, judging by looking at the board. 
  I  
really had no idea. You can change the score so much where you  
put the tees and the pins. If you have all the par-5s back, you  
have a third on the back tee, and you tuck the pins, under par is a  
phenomenal score. But if you put some tees like yesterday and  
have some pins in the balls, and all of a sudden there seemed to be  
quite a few birdies out there yesterday. So the setup man has  
complete say over what we shoot, I think. 
   
   
Q. Have you ever seen a Major course where they could control  
the scores so much without a sprinkler involved? 
  GEOFF OGILVY: It's awesome. There probably has been a lot of courses in the past, they just haven't ever done it. There's plenty of par-5s we play at Majors that you can forward at the tee. At Augusta they don't do it, because they got rid of the old tees. 
   
Oakmont you could have easily moved 12 up a hundred yards last  
year. And you could do it most places.  
   
Here they're actually doing it. I changed on the third tee  
forward today, which they obviously -- it's going to be into the wind,  
they want people to go for it, and it's going to move it up another  
tee. 
   
The third hole is a unique hole, it's a cool hole from both  
tees. You can make it a wedge or 5-iron, which is cool.  
You can probably do it on nice courses, but now they've just started  
doing it, which is just cool, I think. 
   
   
Q. You had three putts inside ten feet and missed, is there any  
sense you left something out there today? 
  GEOFF OGILVY: Well, I finished a bit scrappy, so you walk off thinking scrappy thoughts. But in the middle there I had -- I had a short putt on 6 I missed, a short putt on 7 I missed. I lipped out on 8 with a putt. I missed a chip shot on 10. I could have had a run through there. 
   
9, I had a sand wedge. I could have had a nice run where I  
birdied the holes, and I didn't birdie any of them. There was  
plenty of good stuff in there. I didn't really let too many  
go. You walk off even par for two rounds and you think I've left  
too many out there, maybe one or two, but I probably snuck a few  
sneaky putts yesterday, so it all works out. 
   
   
Q. (Inaudible.) 
  GEOFF OGILVY: I guess when you know you've won a golf tournament it took 5-over to win you know you can kind of hang -- you can keep your head or hang on when it's so darned bad. The hardest thing about -- because sometimes you can be contending in the U.S. Open and feel you're playing horribly, because you're bogeying holes. It's hard to know how you're playing sometimes, because you can be hitting good shots and still making bogeys. 
   
If you've done it, you get more sense of -- you can look at it  
objectively and say it's really not that bad.  
   
Sunday morning I got a message from Judy at Winged Foot, everyone  
always opens the paper on Monday morning after the U.S. Open and is  
surprised how high the winning score was. I still think about  
that every time I play in the U.S. Open. 
   
   
Q. (Inaudible.) 
   
GEOFF OGILVY: For sure. 
   
   
Q. What do you think they'll do Monday morning here? 
  GEOFF OGILVY: You can ask Mike Davis about that. I'm sure he's not going to tell you what he's going to do. Hopefully it stays how it's been, because if it stays how it's been, someone could go out and shoot 5- or 6-under, if they had a great day. It's obviously really hard to do that, but they could do that. 
   
You want to see -- hopefully we see -- we have that cool tee on 14,  
and we see someone birdie 14, birdie 17, a couple under par, maybe,  
that's my guess. Somewhere in between 2-over or 2-under. 
   
   
Q. Do you see the similarities between this time around and '06? 
 
  GEOFF OGILVY: Oh, completely different, really. The greens are similar. The greens are similar to putt on, surface-wise, apart from that it's pretty different. 
   
   
Q. (Inaudible.) 
  GEOFF OGILVY: Again, I mean that week -- at the time I thought, I don't know why I'm up here, because I didn't think I was playing that good. But when I actually analyzed it, I was. But when you shoot 1- or 2-over every day, you don't really feel like you're playing that good, you know? 
   
But when I sat back and analyzed it afterwards, I said I was playing  
really well. So I'm -- it's two years ago, I can't  
remember. But I'm playing pretty well now. It's hard to  
describe. Some things I do better now and some things I do  
worse. 
   
   
Q. (Inaudible.) 
  GEOFF OGILVY: Gradually, it definitely -- Saturday -- it definitely wasn't as good Saturday as it was on Sunday. I distinctly remember feeling great about it the first nine holes, and by Saturday I was a little uncomfortable about it, and Sunday I didn't like my swing at all. 
   
Every player out here that has won golf tournaments, the day they win  
golf tournaments is the day they're not feeling really good about  
their golf swing for some reason. I don't know why it is, but  
everyone out here says they can't hit it on the range and that's the  
best week they ever had. 
   
   
Q. (Inaudible.) 
  GEOFF OGILVY: It's too early to get excited about it. It's nice to be in this position. The only time I'll get excited is if I walk off the green and have won the tournament or have five shots going out in the last. But I'm very happy with where I'm at. I would like to have had a couple better today, but even par for two rounds is pretty good. 
   
   
Q. (Inaudible.) 
  GEOFF OGILVY: There's absolutely no doubt. It wasn't a very wise comment, really. It's true no one has ever really said it. She's said it probably to everyone she walks past. It gives you a perspective. Like Tiger said, if you double bogey the first, it's no big deal. In a normal tournament you're not too happy about that, you just get it out of the way and you have 71 holes to make up for it. 
   
   
Q. How are you related again? 
   
GEOFF OGILVY: My wife's sister is married to Judy's son. 
   
   
Q. I'll get that on a transcript. I'll have to chart  
that. "My wife's sister is married to Judy's son"? 
   
GEOFF OGILVY: Son.  
   
   
Q. (Inaudible.) 
  GEOFF OGILVY: The moral is it's never over. It's never over. And even though you're way over par you're probably not out of it yet. I guess there's a point you're out of it. It helps you to hang in if you think about that. 
   
   
Q. What was her comment to you? 
  GEOFF OGILVY: Exactly that, it was -- before I went out at some point between Saturday and Sunday round she said, don't forget, everybody always reads the paper Monday morning and is surprised at what score wins. 
   
   
Q. (Inaudible.) 
   
GEOFF OGILVY: I think she might have talked to my wife or  
something, maybe. But I didn't talk to her, I got the message  
from my wife.  
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT