RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 24, 2016
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  9-under par 63, how enjoyable was that?  
GEOFF OGILVY: It was great fun, yeah, particularly how it's been going recently for me.  Hasn't been too good. Nice.  I played quite well all week, a couple double-bogeys here and there, which this course is going to do to you because it's tricky.  Today was a bit little bit more docile.  The wind was a different direction and it felt kind of overcast and softer.  There's a score out there, but yeah, to finish like that is dreamy.   
 Q.  The way the course has played, firm and fast and the winds we've had through the first three days, this is the first day where you felt like you could take advantage of the course a little bit?  
GEOFF OGILVY: Yeah, it was playing U.S. Open-like really the first three days.  You weren't much trying to hit the ball close to the hole.  You were trying to work out where you wanted to miss it, because it was almost impossible to hit some of these greens, especially out of the rough.   
Today it seemed like we could get it on the first tee, the greens were a bit soft and overcast and so a bit more receptive.  Just a matter of giving myself a few more putts and I did that.   
 Q.  Eagle at 16 and eagle at 18.  
GEOFF OGILVY: A bit of a push to be honest.  I was trying to hit it kind of middle of green and feed it around.  I pushed it a bit and just got there and worked out very nicely.  I was very happy to see it land on dry land.   
 Q.  A small matter of four foot, six inches for eagle.  
GEOFF OGILVY: Pretty straight putt really.  It's what you want to have on the last hole for three.   
 Q.  And finishing the week now, 9-under par, how do you feel that rounds off the week and looking forward?  
GEOFF OGILVY: This is the first really good score I've had for awhile.  Looking forward to the next few tournaments I play.  It's been a bit of a rough patch.  It's nice.  I knew it was there so it's nice to make a few birdies and finish up the round.  I'm sure it will end up a couple short, but it's a building block to bounce off I guess.   
 Q.  What a great shot into 18.  That looked like it was a fantastic line, at least from behind the green.  How did it look from your perspective?  
GEOFF OGILVY: It was a bit of a push to be fair.  I was trying to  -- I mean, I wasn't being too cautious.  I was trying to hit it kind of the middle of the green bit of a drifty fade with the wind and I thought I could get it to kind of 15, 20 feet kind of that way.  Pushed it about five yards probably.   
And in the air, I was a bit dubious as to whether it was going to get there or not but I knew I had enough club.  So sometimes they work out and sometimes they don't and that one worked out.   
 Q.  Worked out for you on 16 and 18, those two big birds.  What a difference it makes in the score.  
GEOFF OGILVY: It really does.  That's this course.  If you can get to 16, you've got 12, 13, downwind today, so you have three par 5s in the last seven holes, or last six holes.  So any score is possible, if you can kind of be doing all right when you get to the 13th tee, you've got a chance. And I took advantage of 12.  Actually had a reasonably short eagle putt at 13, too.   
Yeah, it was a great finish.  You don't expect to eagle two of the last three holes but you do kind of expect to birdie two of the last three holes.  It's a bonus to make threes on those holes.  Just nice to get up the right end of the leaderboard for once.   
 Q.  I don't know if "easier" is the word, but how much more benign is the golf course today?  
GEOFF OGILVY: Easy is probably not the right word.  You've still got to be very careful.  There's still a lot of bad places you can miss it around the greens.  They are still very kind of firm, and they get firmer during the day.   
So benign is a pretty good word, or docile.  I think it's probably the gentlest it's going to get on a Sunday around here, or the way it's been this week.  It felt like we had a chance to shoot a low score today and I didn't know I'd be shooting 9-under.  I thought I had a chance to have a few under or at least move up the board a little bit.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT