WGC CA CHAMPIONSHIP
March 23, 2008
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOHN BUSH:  We've got Geoff Ogilvy with us.  Thanks for coming by for a few minutes.  If we can just get some comments on the day.  Obviously another one of those days where patience is key. 
 GEOFF OGILVY:  Yeah, a long day.  I warmed up four times.  One of them was a mystery.  We went out there and then we came straight back, so it was a long day.  It was getting pretty dark out there.  I was going all right, had my first bogey on the 7th hole, which is disappointing, but apart from that it wasn't too bad. 

 Q.  How difficult is it to stop and start, stop and start, stop and start mentally? 
 GEOFF OGILVY:  It's no fun.  It's a bit fatiguing going out, warming up, getting in the van, driving all the way out, coming all the way back, coming in, sitting around, in the air-conditioning, out of the air-conditioning, in the air-conditioning, out of the air-conditioning.  It's quite humid here so it's quite a change inside to outside, and that wears you out.  Yeah, it's frustrating. 

 Q.  You had 69 pars in a row and then you made that bogey.  Did that affect your mental state at all? 
 GEOFF OGILVY:  Well, it's disappointing to make a bogey.  That was quite a simple hole, really.  But what are you going to do?  You're going to make one at some point. 

 Q.  Do you think the stoppage now, having a night's sleep, will help you out? 
 GEOFF OGILVY:  In a way it would be quite hard to play out there right now.  You can't see very much anymore.  It would have been nice to get it finished today, but it was fairly inevitable once that first siren blew when we were on the 3rd tee at 2:00, or whenever the first one went, that there was going to be a Monday finish.  I've had it in my head for quite a long time that we were going to finish Monday, so it's not a big deal. 

 Q.  On the leaderboard about half the world Top 10 I think is right in your rear view mirror, including Tiger still five back with, in his mind, still a realistic chance.  Talk about Furyk, Vijay, Adam Scott, Retief Goosen, some of the guys that are potentially going to be looking for your scalp tomorrow. 
 GEOFF OGILVY:  Yeah, it's a good leaderboard.  That's what the whole point of these golf tournaments was, I guess, to get fields like this, get everyone playing each other.  I guess the idea is to have everyone have a chance with 9 holes to play or 18 holes to play with the Top 10 in the world.  They've got a bunch of them with a chance.  It's nice. 

 Q.  Is there a different dynamic to going to sleep with the final round lead, so to speak, two days in a row, and does that become a little more mentally fatiguing, dealing with that? 
 GEOFF OGILVY:  I'm tired enough that I don't think I'll be having too much trouble sleeping tonight (laughter).  Not really.  I kind of didn't really have the lead with one round to play when I went to sleep last night because we were still on the 12th tee, so it seems like quite a long time ago, you know? 
 I'm sure I'll be thinking about it a little bit tonight, but that's natural. 

 Q.  What were the circumstances of your -- the Tucson win the first time around, because it occurs to me that you won in match play, which is a different animal, and then the U.S. Open, you kind of won that one standing in the clubhouse, and this one you're going to be chased all the way down the back stretch.  You've been a marked man now for two, three days. 
 GEOFF OGILVY:  Yeah, they're different, I guess. 

 Q.  Were you leading that one, Tucson? 
 GEOFF OGILVY:  Yeah, I was either tied or one in front starting the last round.  I was definitely in the lead.  I can't remember if it was a tie or not.  It was quite close.  Tucson used to get bunched there at Tucson National.  There was a lot of guys with a chance.  Last group, it was either tied or one in front, and I was up there all week.  I knew I was going to be in it all the way to the end.  I mean, they're long weeks when you're out there.  Hats off to Tiger and guys who do it every week.  It's quite a tiring deal.  I guess you get used to it, but it's quite a long week. 

 Q.  Sorry if it was addressed before I walked in, but just the sense that Tiger -- he's still there but he's got to do some work to catch you.  Does it make a difference, or with the other guys like Furyk and Singh a little closer to you, you've got to outrun everybody? 
 GEOFF OGILVY:  Yeah, to win the golf tournament you've got to beat everyone else in the field.  He's obviously -- like Steve said, in his own mind, I'm sure he probably thinks he has a chance, and we've seen him do crazy things before.  But Jim and Vijay have won a fair few tournaments, and Adam has won a few tournaments, and there's some pretty tough players right up there.  He doesn't only have to catch me, he's got to catch me and pass Jim Furyk and Retief Goosen and Adam Scott.  It's a pretty stellar leaderboard.  I've got my work cut out just beating any of those guys. 

 Q.  Do you see yourself being in control of this tournament, that you can control your own destiny, or is it too early to say that? 
 GEOFF OGILVY:  There's a lot of birdies on this golf course.  I mean, I guess -- if I go out and play a great back nine and have 3- or 4-under on the back nine, it's going to be pretty hard for anyone to catch that.  But saying that, someone could go out and have 6-under on the back nine.  It's that kind of golf course where there are a lot of birdies.  When the scores are 16-, 17-under par, it's obviously yielding some scores.  I'm sure it's in my control if I go out and have three or four birdies early tomorrow.  I mean, it might discourage people, but if I go out and par three or four holes in a row, then maybe they're going to catch me because there's so many birdies out there.  I guess it's in my control, but in some respects it's not. 

 Q.  So you'll continue being aggressive? 
 GEOFF OGILVY:  Yeah, I think I have to be, really.  There's some tough holes coming in, 13, 14, 18, but they can still be birdied even though they're tough holes. 

 Q.  How different did the course play this morning compared to yesterday afternoon?  And in turn, how different did it play this afternoon compared to this morning? 
 GEOFF OGILVY:  The greens were getting slower and slower.  I guess lots of rain and a little bit of heat gets the grass growing pretty fast.  It was very wet this morning.  I mean, it's dried out quite a lot by this afternoon.  It was quite sloppy on -- the ball was kind of splashing when it landed this morning, but it wasn't doing that by the time we finished.  It wasn't running very far, but the greens slowed down quite a lot today compared to yesterday, but that's lots of water and heat, I think. 
 JOHN BUSH:  Geoff, thank you, play well tomorrow. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT