WGC CA CHAMPIONSHIP
March 22, 2008
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Geoff, a beautiful day in Miami?   
 GEOFF OGILVY:  It started out okay.  It's raining right now, typical tropical downpour kind of rain.  It's disappointing, but what are you going to do?  That's the way it goes.  I was scoring okay, but I wasn't hitting the ball very well off the tee actually the first 11 holes, so it'll be nice to actually work that out and drive it a little bit better tomorrow morning.   
  
  Q.  Not pleased with how you were driving it, but you managed to get it in the hole?   
 GEOFF OGILVY:  I did, I hit 10 of 11 greens, so it wasn't horrible.  It's quite hard to make birdies when you're coming out of the rough.  But I made a couple of birdies.  I'm 2-under, going along quite nicely, so I'm thinking just keep going the way I'm going would be pretty good.   
  
  Q.  You were thinking if you and Adam could get together in the final pairing tomorrow, it might be better for the two of you to have each other with the friendship that you have; is that fair?   
 GEOFF OGILVY:  Yeah, for sure.  We're enjoying it out there.  Definitely we play a lot of golf out here anyway.  I play with him more than anybody else, so it's nice to relax in the pairing.  We know each other's games and we might spur each other on to get hot.   
  
  Q.  Talk about the weather.  Looks like you'll have to come back in the morning, then get some time off and then come back out and play the final round.  How do you feel about that?   
 GEOFF OGILVY:  It's just one of the things that we do.  As I said, it's frustrating, you've got to go through a whole other warm-up, and it makes for a very long day tomorrow.  But just a couple weeks ago in Tampa we played 27 holes, I think, on Saturday.  It's just one of those things.   
  
  Q.  World Golf Championships, you talked about them being such a notch down from majors and you're leading.  Just talk about your feeling going into Sunday.   
 GEOFF OGILVY:  Look, I mean, it's where you want to be.  You want to be leading with 26, 25 holes to play.  It's where you want to be in the golf tournament.  I'm happy with where I'm at.  If I can keep playing the way I'm playing and putt well, you never know.   
  
  Q.  Any thoughts about how Tiger was playing?   
 GEOFF OGILVY:  He was hitting it very well, he just didn't putt like he normally putts.  A weird three-putt for him, I guess, on the 2nd, and after that he had a good putt that just didn't go in.  It was just one of those stretches that was probably frustrating the hell out of him.  He was playing fine, he just didn't make anything.   
  
  Q.  After the 1st or 2nd hole was there a shot or a hole that you played that settled you down a little bit?  You played pretty well after 1 and 2.   
 GEOFF OGILVY:  Yeah, 1, I didn't -- I hit it right on 1 and then right on 2.  I hit a good second shot on the 2nd.  Not really, I wasn't 100 percent comfortable with my golf swing starting.  By the time we got called I was happier with it.  I was hitting it better.  It's one of those things.  Tiger was getting frustrated with his putter, I was getting a little frustrated with my ball-striking, but I hit 10 of 11 greens, I think.   
  
  Q.  What did you hit into 9?   
 GEOFF OGILVY:  9, 6-iron.  That was a good shot obviously.  That was the best shot I hit all day.  That was nice to go out 2-under when I haven't hit the ball so well.  What you've got to do is you've got to ride out the tougher periods of the day, of the week.  You're going to have periods where you don't hit the ball very good, and you ride it out, and hopefully tomorrow I'm back to good ball-striking.   
  
  Q.  Kind of a blow to have to come back and finish in the morning?  It would have been better if you had gone back out there today?   
 GEOFF OGILVY:  It's going to be wet in the morning, too.  And we can't play the ball up because we started the round.  There will be some mud going on, but it's the same for everyone.  It's just a part of it.  It drains pretty quick here at Doral.  It's usually a pretty quick-draining course, so it should be a good day.   
  
  Q.  What about Adam Scott?  That 1st hole it was apparent --   
 GEOFF OGILVY:  He was pretty happy with his golf game, a perfect drive and a perfect second shot, a perfect putt.  I mean, it was an eagle hole.  He was very hot on the 1st.  You expect one of us is going to do something like that.  And then he went on with it, he was 4-under after 5, which is always good here.  It was good fun.  It got him straight back in it.   
  
  Q.  Allenby started on 10, and then he made the turn and he made seven birdies, one par, one bogey.  Was the course lending itself to that kind of streak?   
 GEOFF OGILVY:  Well, it's dead still.  We don't play the golf course dead still very often.  It's quite different actually.  We're normally quite used to having quite a big wind.  It was dead still, so there was a birdie on every hole.  A lot of the difficulty was taken away from the ball-striking part because there was no wind.   
  
  Q.  Does Robert have that in him at any time?   
 GEOFF OGILVY:  Yeah, he's one of the best ball-strikers out here.  If he gets his putter going, he can birdie every hole.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT