WGC CA CHAMPIONSHIP
March 21, 2008
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  You only hit three fairways.  Statistically, I know there was probably four or five in the first cut, but could it have been more or are you pleased with leading by one? 
 GEOFF OGILVY:  That was about the right score today.  I played a lot better yesterday than I did today, tee to green anyway.  I made a lot of putts and I got up-and-down when I needed to.  I was never way off track.  It wasn't horrible tee shots, they would just run into the rough and stuff.  It was a much trickier wind today than it was yesterday.  Well, I found it trickier anyway. 
 Yeah, if I want to keep shooting good scores, I'm going to have to hit it better than I did today. 

 Q.  You've had some decent finishes here in the past.  (Indiscernible.) 
 GEOFF OGILVY:  I don't know, I mean, it just fits my eye a lot of times off the tee.  There's a lot of dogleg right to left, which fit my eye more than the other way.  It seems to be more that go left here than go right. 
 I don't know, some places you just play okay at for no explanation.  I don't think there's too much explanation.  Once you start playing well at a place, you tend to feed off it next time. 

 Q.  Do you like playing with Tiger? 
 GEOFF OGILVY:  I do.  Most of the time I've played pretty decent playing with him.  How can you not enjoy playing with the guy who's on his way to being the best golfer of all time?  It's a thrill. 

 Q.  Your perspective of when you played with him in the first two rounds of PGA in '06 compared to Geoff Ogilvy a year and a half later.  Is it different?  Are you able to adjust it better? 
 GEOFF OGILVY:  That was about as crazy a two days as it's ever going to get with Tiger and Phil in Chicago with crowds like that.  I played pretty decent.  I was hitting second or third or fourth after two rounds.  We all played pretty good in that group.  I handled that one pretty decent.  It probably cannot be quite a circus like that anymore.  But every time you play with him, you're better off the next time, more experience. 

 Q.  (Inaudible.) 
 GEOFF OGILVY:  I don't know, sometimes.  Sometimes you get caught up with all the craziness.  Sometimes there's so many people inside the ropes when you play with Tiger, with the photographers and journalists and so forth, that there can be so much going on that it can be distracting.  Sometimes it can lift you to great heights and sometimes you might get a bit caught up in the distractions, but most of the time it helps. 

 Q.  Do you think there's a certain number you're going to have to shoot to win this golf tournament? 
 GEOFF OGILVY:  One shot less than the guy who comes second.  It's so unpredictable around here -- if it's blowing a little bit you can make a lot of birdies but if it's blowing a lot you can't.  I haven't really intimately studied the forecast, so a few birdies on the weekend, probably a few more. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT