WGC CA CHAMPIONSHIP
March 20, 2008
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Just talk about the difference in the wind.  Obviously 18 not playing quite as difficult as it has in the past. 
 GEOFF OGILVY:  Yeah, 18 was as easy as I've ever seen it.  Driver, wedge I hit today, and in the practice rounds it was almost unreachable, one of the tougher holes we're liable to see in the practice rounds, and today it was one of the easier holes on the course, which is an odd change for the 18th.  So it was a pleasant surprise. 

 Q.  Is this the easiest of the wind conditions out here, when it blows in this direction? 
 GEOFF OGILVY:  I don't know if I've played it that much in this direction.  It's generally always at least off the left on the 18th tee shot, and it was off the right, which kind of -- probably, probably the easiest, but it makes that 13th, 14th stretch of the course, 12, 13, 14, really hard because it's hard off the left.  I don't know, if we have the exact reverse wind tomorrow and I shoot a higher score, then probably I'll think this is the easier wind.  But I haven't seen it, so I don't know. 

 Q.  Have you been in good form this week? 
 GEOFF OGILVY:  I've been playing better every week.  I had a slow start this week and just been getting better every week.  I played decent in Tampa and I played okay last week, but I played really good in the last round.  I had a decent last round last week, so it was -- it's been coming, yeah. 

 Q.  Do you kind of feed off of what you did last year and bring it with you into this year at all? 
 GEOFF OGILVY:  I probably didn't -- I've played here enough, I probably didn't learn that much last year.  It's always nice to come back to a place that you've played well at because it makes you more comfortable and positive thoughts about when you've had good rounds around a place.  It's always nice to come back to that place, where some courses you get to, you don't ever seem to play well.  It's nice to come back to a place where I've played well. 

 Q.  Can you talk a little bit about the fine line between winning and not winning a golf tournament? 
 GEOFF OGILVY:  It's often one shot.  Yeah, you can play great out here, and ten times in a year you can have great weeks.  Those ten times, someone else has a better week.  Then other times you can have one good week and win.  So I mean, it's -- not saying that it's not all luck, but you're putting it all together and be comfortable in situations and put yourself in position enough times.  It's a really fine line between having a good year and not having a bad year, between winning a lot of tournaments and not winning a lot of tournaments. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT