NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 14, 2008
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  How was it?   
 GEOFF OGILVY:  It was weird.  We had 3, 4, 5 into the wind and 7 comes the exact opposite way.  We had 7, 8, 9 straight into the wind, which is not possible.  So definitely the whole front nine is felt into the wind and it stuck there and we played, it was sort of stuck where it was on the back nine, but it was weird for a while.  It was pretty hard to work out where it was.   
  
  Q.  Ball-striking-wise, do you feel like you played too hard or do you feel like you played six or seven --   
 GEOFF OGILVY:  Not six or seven.  I hit it pretty well.  It's hard to hit it close out there.  I played well.  I hit it really well.  I eagled the first which is a nice way to start.  It was playing pretty short for us, it was kind of downwind.   
 I played really solid on my last nine holes.  I could have had a couple birdies, but you can't measure.  I could have had 2-under on a perfect day today, who knows.  I played well.   
  
  Q.  How do you keep from getting too frustrated with the wind shifts and changes out there?   
 GEOFF OGILVY:  It is frustrating but it is just part of playing golf in the wind.  It's always going to be a bit odd when you play golf here in the wind because it down in a big valley, and it's going to swirl in the corners and stuff, and I think that's what it was doing today.   
 We play a lot of windy days all year on TOUR, and it's just one of those days where you learn to deal with it.   
  
  Q.  What went right for you in your game out there?   
 GEOFF OGILVY:  I hit the ball nicely.  I did everything quite tidy, actually.  I hit a really horrible tee shot off 12, I think and made a bogey there, and that's really the only bad shot, the only real terrible shot I hit.   
 Most of the shots I hit were pretty tidy, and my short game was nice and I made the six- and seven-footers toward the end of the day which is nice, because they are tricky at the end of the day.  The greens get a little ropey at the end of the day, so it was nice.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT