THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
September 15, 2007
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  How pleased were you with your round today? 
 GEOFF OGILVY:  Yeah, very pleased.  I didn't play so bad the first couple of days, I just didn't make as many putts I guess as the guys who were right up there at the top.  And today I hit the ball quite well.  But as I said, I hit the ball quite well the first two days, I just didn't make as many as today.  I made the ones I was supposed to make and a couple of bonus long ones, as well. 

 Q.  You had a lot of birdies. 
 GEOFF OGILVY:  Yeah, 10 birdies is a lot of birdies to have anywhere.  I've got to get on the action.  Everyone is going to have a lot of birdies Thursday and Friday, I wanted to get in on a piece. 
 I'm back definitely at the right end of the field.  Who knows what's going to win this tournament.  If Tiger goes and has a good day, mid 20s could win it.  I can't get there from where I am, 10-under, but if he has a human day, you never know. 

 Q.  Looking for any kind of openings you may have, you may have to go through to get to him? 
 GEOFF OGILVY:  This will be my last stroke-play event over here for quite a while.  It's nice to get back to the right end of the field and have a chance to post a really low finish tomorrow.  And if I go low, you never know. 

 Q.  The greens at the beginning were a big question mark and it seems like guys are making miles of putts. 
 GEOFF OGILVY:  The first couple days I have no idea how they were doing it.  Today I think it's the easiest greens I've ever putted on. 
 Look, if greens are awful away from where the holes are -- where the holes are, they're fine.  They're not fast, but they're true and it goes where you hit it.  As long as you hit it anywhere around the pin, if you hit good putts they're going to go in.  Slow greens have never been my favorite, but when you start getting a feel for hitting putts, you can hit them and not be afraid it's going to get away from you.  And yeah, today I made it from everywhere, which was fun. 

 Q.  How difficult is No. 6 playing off the tee? 
 GEOFF OGILVY:  I didn't even know there was a tee there.  Yeah, it's -- I imagine there will be a few train wrecks on that hole today because that's a tough hole.  I hit 4, I was 210 into a left-to-right wind, which is not the nicest wind for a right-hander, to a pretty narrow target.  Yeah, I mean, I hit it on the green, but I imagine there will be a few guys that will hit it in the water.  I didn't even know there was a tee there, it was amazing.  Tough hole. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT