THE BARCLAYS
August 24, 2007
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Talk about your round today.   
 GEOFF OGILVY:  I played well, obviously.  I drove the ball really well, which is a big key around here and I putted well, which probably should be the case when you play golf anywhere.  But pretty important around here; it's a pretty tough golf course when you get off chance but you have a good chance when you're off the fairway.   
 Apart from the 18th, which was my ninth, I messed that one up a little bit but the rest was pretty good.   
  
  Q.  How do you like where you stand going into tomorrow?   
 GEOFF OGILVY:  Good.  I'd obviously rather be closer to the lead.  It's one shot better than doing 7-under.   
  
  Q.  This playoff format, are you into it now?   
 GEOFF OGILVY:  Yes, I'm sure it will get bigger, much bigger.  It's hard to know -- I don't really have a feel for how much I'm going to jump up in the week or what's a good week or what we need to do.    
 I think after this week, it will build up to a crescendo, you know what I mean.  I'm still trying to get a feel for the way it's all going to shake up, but I'm excited.   
  
  Q.  You shot 5-under but you only birdied one of the par 5s, just comment on that.   
 GEOFF OGILVY:  Yeah, it's disappointing.  The last hole -- the ninth was disappointing because I had an iron in there.  I was in the semi-rough, just overcut it a little bit.  It's really hard to hit your second shot from there into a good spot.  That's the way it goes on that hole.   
 And 18 was just disgraceful really.  I was in the middle of the fairway and blocked my 3-wood, just an ugly 6.  It's disappointing.  Sometimes it works like that sometimes, just one of those days.   
  
  Q.  The low scores were out there; does somebody really need to go out and attack this course?   
 GEOFF OGILVY:  I don't know, I'd be surprised if K.J. -- well, if K.J. is playing that well, who knows, he might be able to finish 20-under; or 12-under might win.  It's going to get firmer and it's going to get harder, and as it gets firmer, it will get tougher.  Just go out and try and play well tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  What have you done for two days that you have not done in the last --   
 GEOFF OGILVY:  I've driven it better today, but I'm making more putts.  Pretty much end of the day when you're trying to analyze golf, when it goes good, it goes good; and when it goes bad, at the end of the day, it comes down to the putter.  The driver helps and I'm driving it quite straight.  I holed a few 15-footers today.    
  
  Q.  What exactly did you do on 18?   
 GEOFF OGILVY:  I hit 3-wood just pin-high right in the rough.  It was one of those awkward ones, I had to chip it along a ridge and hit it left.  It was just an awkward shot.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT