PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2007
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.  Summarize your round today. 

 GEOFF OGILVY:  I played really well.  Could have been really good if I'd holed a few putts.  I didn't hole much.  If I would have made a few more putts I could have had three or four better.  It's not too stressful if I was on the fairway or green more often, getting reasonable putts.  It just didn't go in.  I knew in my position it was going to be a tough day. 

 Q.  When you look back at yesterday, obviously you weren't happy with yourself, but was there any one thing that just let you down? 

 GEOFF OGILVY:  I hit it crap.  I hit it crap. 

 Q.  Straight off the tee? 

 GEOFF OGILVY:  Yeah, pretty much. 

 Q.  Having said that, are you going to get a Top-10 in the major? 

 GEOFF OGILVY:  To have a day like that yesterday and still have a Top-10, that's good.  I played really well Friday and pretty solid today.  I could have had three or four better today.  With the exception of -- this day would have been fine if I just hung in there, hit a couple of nice shots and putts.  At the end I would still be in it today.  I would have done really well.  Last six holes did me in yesterday.  Frustrated yesterday.  You didn't come to lose, one of those days I felt bad.  The golf swing felt bad.  I held on to the last few holes made it slip. 

 Q.  Today obviously Tiger doesn't have his A game and Ernie is making a run? 

 GEOFF OGILVY:  It would be fun, nice, he goes out three in front, it's not a contest; he just birdies three of the four holes.  It's a procession the rest of the way like it was last year. 

 Be fun watching these guys come in.  Only a couple up, might have to take a risk here or there, not those irons that he does so well. 

 Q.  Looking ahead a little bit, we have the Presidents Cup coming up, are you excited about that? 

 GEOFF OGILVY:  Yes, it will be interesting to see who he picks tomorrow actually.  I wouldn't want to be Gary because -- I wouldn't want -- it's hard picks.  I think it's hard picks.  You have to think about Mike Weir in Canada who is going to give the team a lift and it will be so much better if he's there.  Stephen Ames, he'll be there.  And Tim Clark, he's played unbelievable the last month.  If he played this week he definitely should have got in. 

 Q.  Pick Stuart? 

 GEOFF OGILVY:  Pick Stuart. 

 Q.  Romero? 

 GEOFF OGILVY:  Romero, if he drops out it's going to be interesting.  Who knows.  Tune in. 

 Q.  He's close to Stuart, apparently very close to -- at this stage he might just make the 10th? 

 GEOFF OGILVY:  Romero.  Then you have to pick Romero the way he's played last month. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT