U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 14, 2007
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  What does it feel like?   
   GEOFF OGILVY: Hard to say. It wasn't crazy difficult this morning. It's hard when you get off track. When you're on track it's okay, if you're on the fairways and hitting decent shots. Every time I was in the fairway I did okay; every time I was in the rough, it was hard. It's a really good score to have 1 over. It's a tough course and it will be tougher this afternoon, for sure.   
  
  Q.  Can you describe the 12th hole, couple of interesting lies the tee.   
   GEOFF OGILVY: If you don't fly into a bunker, it stops on the slope in that long stuff and I didn't have a very good spot and I did as good as I could and I just figured I would hit it up somewhere short and right, because I could get it up and down from right which turned out to be true. I just didn't think I would get it -- it was a bad short and right, it was just really bad and really right.   
  
  Q.  Was it under the garbage can or --   
 GEOFF OGILVY:  Just near it.   
  
  Q.  Was this morning's play like yesterday and the day before?   
   GEOFF OGILVY: About the same. It's nice when it's overcast, it's not too hot. Last night's rain helped us out, especially the morning guys, might be a bit firmer this afternoon. You had plenty of chances at it this morning. If you're on the fairway, you can hit it close.   
  
  Q.  The green speed?   
 GEOFF OGILVY:  It's close, there are no putts out there that are not stoppable, so...   
  
  Q.  Do you think it will be firmer by Saturday?   
   GEOFF OGILVY: It's probably perfect for Thursday. Two, three guys under par maybe. That's normal isn't it, two or three red numbers on Thursday and then hopefully they're all gone by Friday night?   



 That's what it feels like it might be, I don't know.  As long as it doesn't rain at night it's going to get harder and harder.  The pins could have been harder, the 8th tee was up, which didn't help me out but the 8th tee was up, so it can only play harder than it did this morning.   
  
  Q.  Did you have a bad lie on 8?   
   GEOFF OGILVY: It wasn't the best lie, but 12 feet would have been a decent shot. The whole bunker is a downslope, because it follows the whole slope that the hill is on, so it wasn't an easy shot and I made a mess of it.   
  
  Q.  Did you hit the spotter on 17 --   
 GEOFF OGILVY:  I thought so, but when we got up there no one owned up to being hit.  (Laughter.)   
  
  Q.  How deep was that ball buried?   
   GEOFF OGILVY: Halfway down. It wasn't a very good spot to be but at least you got a good angle from over there, which is why I tried to make the play. If I missed it left and it turned out to be a bad lie I still had some chance.   
  
  Q.  There is no wind this week, what did you and Tiger --   
   GEOFF OGILVY: When he and I played here last Monday, 10 over would have won by 5. Right now 10 over is not going to win, if it stays like this, so it's tough, but it's -- as I said, there are birdies out there, whereas last Monday when we played there wasn't that many out there.   
  
  Q.  How did Tiger play?   
   GEOFF OGILVY: Pretty well, there was some scrappy stuff in the middle, which I'm sure he'll tell you about, couple off 11, he rallied by 17th and got out of a spot on the right, that's what he does, gets the best score of the day he can, not his best but he's still in the tournament.   
  
  Q.  How difficult was that par save at 12?  Looked like a hard shot.   
   GEOFF OGILVY: Wasn't good but Tiger was arguably in a worse spot than I was, believe that, probably not quite but he had a decent bogey shot and he went -- if you're short and right of that green you've got a chance, if you're left you have absolutely no hope, so it was hard but not quite as hard as it looked like, probably.   
  
  Q.  Geoff, are you a U.S. Open-type guy now?   
   GEOFF OGILVY: I don't think so. I didn't hit a fairway with a wood today, but there are lots of irons out there luckily for me.   



 I still don't think of myself as this is my ideal chance but I seem to be doing all right so I don't know what it is.    
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT