WGC CA CHAMPIONSHIP
March 25, 2007
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Tiger is running away with another one, we've seen this over and over, your take on yet another one.   
 GEOFF OGILVY:  He's just better than us, I think.  I don't know, I wish I could work out how he does it, because he seems to do it every time we play.   
 I don't know.  I mean, he's just better than us, really.  If I knew what he was doing, I'd try to do it myself.  I don't know, he's just -- when he keeps the ball in play, which I guess he's doing, he's pretty dangerous.  Because his iron play is probably the best in the world and he's easily the best putter out here; even though he moaned about it on Thursday, I'm sure it wasn't horrific.   
 And when he starts making putts, it's pretty scary.  He's got a lot of chances because he's a great iron player.  He's good on bermuda, good in wind, good in no wind, he's good on bentgrass.  He's just a good player, what do you say.   
  
  Q.  (Was your putting the difference for you this week)?   
 GEOFF OGILVY:  The putter wasn't perfect all week but it got better today.  Tricky putting out there.  Bermuda is not my favorite surface, and it's never easy to hold putts when it's crosswind on 3- and 4-footers; it's tricky anyway.   
 So I'll be -- it came better today than the rest of the week.  It wasn't horrendous.  But if I putted really well, I could have got right up there but I'm sure there's probably 25 guys thinking that at the moment.   
  
  Q.  Do the conditions help in preparation for Augusta?   
 GEOFF OGILVY:  Not really.  It's a pretty different world than it's going to be in Augusta.  It's not as windy.  It's a hilly kind of place, Augusta, lots of side slopes and fast greens.  It's a different kind of deal, but you can still think about Augusta while you're playing around here.  If it was the week before, it would be an awkward preparation, but two weeks before I think it's fine.   
  
  Q.  Is it different starting half a dozen back when it's Tiger?   
 GEOFF OGILVY:  Not really.  It's probably just more hopeless when he's six shots in front.  Six shots behind; behind someone at the start of the day is not great place behind anybody.  It's probably just harder when he's in front because you know he's going to shoot 1- or 2-under par, at least.   
 So that means you have to shoot 8 or 9 (under), and that's pretty hard work and it's always hard to shoot 8 or 9 when you're trying to shoot 8 or 9.  They only turn up when you're not thinking about it.  It's obviously difficult.  He tends to win when he's in front with three and a round to play, and this one looks like another one.   
  
  Q.  The concession you made that he's just better than you, do you think that's the universal thought of all the guys or just he's better today?   
 GEOFF OGILVY:  I honestly don't think about it when I'm playing.  It's just that when you sit down after the week and, "wow, he won another one," I don't know if there's any other way to sum it up.   
 I don't really think about -- I mean, it's good for us because it makes us try to get better.  It's kind of fun playing now; if he's not already, he's getting pretty close to being the best golfer of all time.  It's fun watching.  He's just a better player.  I just have to figure out how he does it and do something.  He's just good.   
  
  Q.  Seems like part of the fun of golf is coming down to the wire; you lose that aspect of it --   
 GEOFF OGILVY:  Well, this week we do, but there's a lot of times where it's come down to the wire.  He hasn't won every golf tournament by five or six shots, and I can't imagine a more fun scenario in all of golf than coming up the last few holes of a major championship against him.  I can't imagine a better situation than that.  Coming up the last few holes of a major against anybody is good, but against him you have a chance to create something.  There's some special kind of atmosphere when he's about and he's playing well.   
 It's just there's no doubt -- he makes the TOUR a more fun place.  It's more fun when he's out here playing.  Even finishing third or fourth or whatever I'm going to finish, it's better -- it's not as hard to lose to him as it is to someone else, I don't know.   
  
  Q.  When you go out to dinner with the guys like three or four players, do you guys talk about this very topic?   
 GEOFF OGILVY:  Not really.  We don't sit around and like try to work out how we can beat him.  I mean, if you get on Tiger, we all start -- well, he's good because of this, he's good because of that, he's good because he does this.  Everyone's got their theories, but end of the day, he does most things better than us and holes putts when we he needs to.  We talk about it a bit, but it's like we talk about Sergio; you guys, you know.   
  
  Q.  Is there a demoralizing factor at all?   
 GEOFF OGILVY:  Not really, because he only wins 30 percent of the time he tees it up.  We probably only play -- I probably only play 13 or 14 tournaments that he plays in a year.  I've got seven or eight chances he's not going to win.  (Laughter).   
 Not really.  It's just it's kind of inspiring.  It will be even more satisfying to win a golf tournament when he's playing well, you know.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT