WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 23, 2007
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  All the way to 17 today, 2-up.  Talk us through the match.   
 GEOFF OGILVY:  Yeah, 2 and 1.  Hard day, it was cold.  The wind was completely different from the first two days.  The course was sort of taking it the first two days, a lot of birdies and perfect greens, and all of a sudden there are a bit of teeth to the golf course.  It was that cold, it was playing really long.  I was hitting 3-irons into holes that I was hitting wedge into the first two days.   
 So it was tricky but it was a day to kind of just grind it out and chip away and see if I could make a couple of putts at the right time, and that's what happened.   
  
  Q.  What was the key hole in the match?   
 GEOFF OGILVY:  I was kind of doing all right.  I was kind of up most of the front nine.  I kind of messed up 9, got a bit frustrated, and then we halved 10, 11.   
 12, I lost 12, I hit it into an unplayable lie.   
 But I think later on, 16 he had a really good birdie putt.  We would have been square with two to play as opposed to 1-up with two to play.  He hit an unbelievable putt, a perfect putt, and it was just one of those ones that didn't go in, so maybe it was my day.   
 That was a key moment.  If he holed that, all square with two to play is very different from 1-up with two to play.   
  
  Q.  Are you playing the best so far in '07 that you've played?   
 GEOFF OGILVY:  This is the best I've played so far this year for sure.  I didn't play as good today, but I think that's probably the nature of the weather.  It's pretty hard to play great on a day like this.  You're just trying to survive when it's this cold.  I played fantastic the first two days.  It's easily the best I've putted this year.   
  
  Q.  You're playing Paul Casey in the quarterfinal.  What are you thinking about that?   
 GEOFF OGILVY:  I mean, I'd just like to go out -- I'm glad to play the weekend at this tournament.  I think it's a pretty tough tournament, this one.   
 Paul is obviously a pretty good match player.  He won the HSBC there in England last year, so he's obviously running on a bit of confidence with his match play, and he won a tournament I think in the Middle East there recently, I think in Qatar maybe.   
 We're members at the same golf course in Whisper Rock up in Scottsdale, so we've played a lot of golf together so it'll be fun.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT