WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 15, 2015
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Geoff, just get some overall comments on your round if we can, please.
GEOFF OGILVY:   Yeah.   Kind of a bit up and down on the front-9 -- the back-9, my first 9.   Birdied the par-5s.   Birdied 16.   I had three birdies on the front.   Kind of threw them back away with a few bogies, too. 
Kind of really dark I thought early.   I don't know if that makes any difference.   I thought the first few holes were weird because it was dark and gloomy. 
Played really well on the back.   I had four, five birdies in a row on my second on the front, kind of turned just kind of a ho-hum round into a good round. 
I guess I had a lot of birdies if I add them all up.   Nice.   I've always liked coming here.   So, nice to have a couple decent rounds.   Hopefully no one goes and does anything too silly.   Nice to start nicely.

Q.   What do you attribute to those five birdies in a row?
GEOFF OGILVY:   Good shots.   I bogied 18 and 1 -- no.   18 is a bogey.   1 I kind of three-putted which was not very good.   I was kind of a little bit out of sorts, kind of going along not doing anything special, then good birdie on 3 and a great birdie on 4, I hit good shots, and 5 was a birdie.   Got on the green in 6, 6 holed a bunker shot.   7 is kind of a easy hole from the fairway. 
Just one of those nice little rounds.   Holed a couple of nice putts and holed the bunker shot, the bonus birdie.   Birdie of the two par-5s like I'm supposed to.   I was playing nicely the whole round.   Just didn't make any loose errors on the back.   Bogeyed the 9th but, again, that's a hard hole.   Yeah.   Quite pleased with my two rounds.

Q.   How nice is it to be right there now having good scores and knowing that you're right in contention?
GEOFF OGILVY:   It's nice.   I never really had a high finish here.   I've always played okay here.   Something about the course that I obviously like, like it suits my eye or something.   I birdied all the par-5s in two days which is pretty handy around here. 
Yeah, I get to sleep in tomorrow.   If I keep hitting the ball well, hole a few putts you'll never know.   Obviously guys are showing you can go really low on the weekend here. 
It's also a course that leaders don't usual run away.   So, yeah, I'm in a nice position.   Hopefully I can go have and have a good round on Saturday and give myself a real chance on Sunday.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT