PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 19, 2006
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
How challenging was it to claw back from the double?
GEOFF OGILVY:  Yeah, it's hard.  I mean, it's no fun.  You can't really start much worse.  I mean, I'm in the middle of the fairway 130 yards out and I make 6, which is quite embarrassing more than anything.  You'd kind of like to get it back straight away, but I didn't, but I got to 5 and I hit two of the best shots all week on 5, and I made an eagle and you get them both back, all of a sudden 7 under seems a lot better than 5 under with some par 5s coming up and some birdie holes.  I really played as good today as I have any other day or better, it's just the first hole was not the way you want to start.
Q.  It appears as though Tiger will probably be in the final group with a leader's share of it where he's never lost.  What kind of edge, if any, does that give him beyond just a number?
GEOFF OGILVY:  I mean, he's not going to win them all.  At one point he's going to not win one.  He's pretty special, but he's not unbeatable.  I'm sure it gives him a pretty good confidence boost, but you have to play well to win these majors anyway.  You probably have to have a few shots lower tomorrow because he's there, because you know he's going to play well.  No, it makes it more fun and it will be more fun to win when he's leading the last round.  Someone is going to do it.
Q.  (Inaudible).
GEOFF OGILVY:  Yes and no.  I mean, I kind of like to hang on in the U.S. Open a little bit sometimes because you make a couple pars and you move up the leaderboard.  You've still got to play well.  I mean, everyone is going to write about how easy the golf course is, but it really isn't very easy.  Everyone is playing pretty well.  The scoring today is unbelievable if you look at the left hand side of those leaderboards and the scores that everyone shot today.  It's pretty special.  It's difficult, difficult in a completely different way.  You've got to go more at pins, your strategy is a little different.  But really, you just try to have the lowest score you can and hope it adds up to less than everyone else's at the end.
Q.  What pressure do the conditions put on a guy with a late tee time?
GEOFF OGILVY:  The hardest thing is sitting in there having lunch or something and watching everyone go out and make birdies, and you can start at a pretty good number, and before you go out there might be ten guys already past you and they've already got some holes under their belt.  And then you go and double bogey the 1st hole and it feels like you've got back to about 40th place.

But, I mean, that's the challenge.  But when you see other guys making birdies out there, it gives you the confidence that you can make birdies out there, too.  If they can make birdies, they're out there.  I don't know, it's hard waking up early in the morning and sitting there and not knowing what to do for four or five hours before you get to go out to the golf course.  That's probably the hardest bit, the waiting, the anticipation before you get to come out here.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT