MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2015
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (No Microphone.)  
GEOFF OGILVY:   I hit the ball really well.   
   
 Q.   (No Microphone.)  
GEOFF OGILVY:   Yeah, obviously I had 2‑under on the back nine, which was ‑‑ 2‑under on the back nine‑‑ I played really nicely on the back.   I kind of ground it around.   I drove it left on 2, which is always difficult.   
(Wind noise.)   Still managed to make a 6.   
Kind of scrambled for the first five or six holes and then started hitting really good shots.   
I had a nice tap‑in on 10, which was nice.   
Hit great shots into the whole back nine.   
I really hit a great shot on 13 with a 3‑iron.   Which is always fun to do.   
Got lucky on 15.   I had it on the fringe about a foot short of the green and it normally goes back into the grain or it can go back into the grain, and it stayed there.   Unfortunately, I didn't make birdie.   
I hit great shots the last few holes.   I'm still here for the weekend, so hopefully I ‑‑ you can make a lot of ground up on this course on the weekend.   So hopefully I can keep hitting good shots to keep it going.  
   
 Q.   You were bemoaning the putting yesterday.   Did some magic happen overnight?  
GEOFF OGILVY:   Not really magic.   I mean, if I would have had a good putting day, I would have had a really low round.   So I guess I got two more days to find something.   
I didn't putt badly, I just didn't make anything.   So I'll go and have lunch and hit a few this afternoon.   Because you can make up a lot of ground pretty quick here on the weekend.   They give you a chance, if you hit good shots.   
So I'm still here and you can only do it if you're here.   So if you hit good shots and make a few, you never know.  
   
 Q.   We know what a great ball‑striker you are.   Obviously there's signs there that the ball striking is back.   
GEOFF OGILVY:   Yeah, I've really felt better, actually.   It's getting better, week‑to‑week, and day‑to‑day, really.   I'm enjoying hitting the ball as much as I ever have.   
So that does a bit of mental damage sometimes, because you have so many short putts and birdie putts, looks at the hole.   But if one part of our game is going really well ‑‑ and I know I'm a good putter, there's a good putter in there somewhere, so as soon as the ball starts going in, I think it will all come back.   
   
 Q.   So you fought back hard today to get back to even par.   How would you assess today for you?  
GEOFF OGILVY:   Yeah, yesterday ‑‑ I played sensibly yesterday and didn't make any putts and kind of had a couple disasters coming in to shoot 2‑over.   
Then I did the cardinal sin of driving it left on the second and was 1‑over after three, whereas you really kind of want to be 1‑under after two.   
Scrambled through the first five or six holes.   
And then all of a sudden I found my ball striking and started hitting a lot of good shots.   
Birdied 8, hit it really close on 10 for a tap‑in birdie, hit a great shot into 13, and really had chances on every hole on the back nine, really, except for 12.   I didn't take many of them, but I was hitting such good shots, so it was ‑‑ if you can have a stress‑free kind of nine holes at Augusta, it was a stress‑free back nine and nice to shoot a couple under.   It could have been a couple better, but it could always be a couple better.   
So, you're here on the weekend, they give you a chance, if you hit good shots on the weekend, to go really low here.   So hopefully I can do that.  
   
 Q.   How much leaderboard watching were you doing?   Were you aware of what Jordan is doing out there?  
GEOFF OGILVY:   Not really, until kind of 17, I think ‑‑ I mean, I look at the board, it's kind fun to see how everyone is doing.   These old school boards, you kind of see what they make on every hole.   It's fun to watch.   
It's just kind of business as usual for him.   It's every single week he seems to be on top of the leaderboard playing well.   And 12‑under after, whatever it is, 30 holes, is pretty impressive.   It's not that easy out there.   It's getting blustery, and he's obviously aware of his skills at the moment and he's loving it.   
   
 Q.   Last thing, Ben Crenshaw was here finishing up today.   What do you think he's meant to this tournament?  
GEOFF OGILVY:   Wow, I mean, massive.   A massive part of the whole thing.   He's one of those guys who truly gets the history of the game too.   He's been forever connected with this place since he started playing.   He's always taken his local caddie.   He's won it twice.   
No one will forget 1995.   That's probably the most memorable win, outside of 1986 of anybody.   Maybe even more so.   There was not a dry eye in the house.   
As I said, it's just a guy who truly gets it.   I mean, I think people will come and go from the Masters and everybody loves the place, but he probably loves it more than anybody else.   He truly understands the history of Bobby Jones and Nicklaus, all the way through, and Clifford Roberts, and really he gets it.   
It's a shame that he's not going to be playing anymore, but I'm sure he'll be a fixture out under the tree and at the tournament and the par‑3 for a long time.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT