THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 23, 2006
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
GEOFF OGILVY:  It's been a reasonable week.  I wish I had brought more game here.  I found my ball striking a bit more today.  I hit a few better shots.  But I didn't hole anything.  I had about five or six putts from ten feet.  If you're going to contend you have to make those.  If I'd made those I wouldn't have been far off.

Overall pretty good.  I didn't feel that great about my game this week, so I've ended up all right.  I'm in the top 15 or so in a major, it's not too bad.

Probably weary from so many distractions from being U.S. Open champion, but perhaps more to do with the fact that I hadn't seen anyone for a month.  Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday with all the congratulations it was hard to get anything done on the range, to walk anywhere without something going on.  It's fun, but it took me two hours, what would normally take me half an hour to do on the range.  Maybe that affected it, but I don't think so.  Every other time I've won, the next tournament I've played I played really well.  So all in all not too bad.

I missed Tiger by quite a few shots, but I'm only going to be a couple of shots today behind the rest of them.  I'm not too far off, considering I'm not near my best, I didn't play nearly as well as I did a month ago.  I hit a couple of really shocking shots.
Q.  Your record in the majors is pretty outstanding.  Do you just enjoy the atmosphere?
GEOFF OGILVY:  I enjoy the golf courses.  I enjoy it when it's tough, four times a year when it's really important to play well.  I tend to stay more patient.  You can't afford to get annoyed when you make bad shots.  Everybody else is making bad shots, too.  Just the sort of golf it makes you play, I just enjoy it.

You wait your whole life to play majors.  I'm learning better and better how to prepare for them.  I felt I prepared for The British Open pretty well.  I thought I prepared for The Masters well.  I had a reasonable Masters.  I kind of trailed away over the last few holes.

So I'm getting comfortable at all of them now.  They're the ones I really enjoy.  I enjoy the whole part of it, from Thursday onwards.  The stuff earlier in the week, the press and all that, getting pretty excited, but it's understandable because it's another major and people want to read about it.  From Thursday I really enjoy major weeks.
Q.  What is your program now until Medinah?
GEOFF OGILVY:  I'm having a week off.  I'm playing the Buick Championship in Michigan, which is a good tournament.  I've always played okay there, always in the top 15 or 20 on a course I can play well.  I'm hemming and hawing about The International.  It's a long week, the week before the PGA, because it's a long walk more than anything.  I really, really enjoy the tournament.  I've played it every year.  It's a long walk up and down hills and it's 6,000 feet.  It's the hilliest course of the year and it's so hot.  It's a funny format.  That may bite the dust this year, unfortunately, but I don't know.

I'm tired at the moment but I want to play.  I'll play the Buick and see how we go.  Then the PGA and the Firestone the week after that, three of the next five weeks.
Q.  Are you considering the Wentworth World Match Play?
GEOFF OGILVY:  I'm considering it.  The only reason that I wouldn't be at it is it's three or four weeks before my wife is due, and that's on the other side of the States.  We're having the baby in the States.  I'd love to play it.  I love Wentworth.  I love that tournament.  It would be really cool to end up doing the double of the World Match Play and the World Match Play, the new World Match Play and the old World Match Play.  I played last year.  I went there last year and had a great time.  I lost to Cambo in the first round but I had a great time.  I'd love to.  It all depends on how
Q.  You'll play it if you can?
GEOFF OGILVY:  Yes, I'll play it if I can.  It's penciled in.  It depends on the baby, who might want to come early.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT