U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 17, 2006
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Great job, Geoff.
GEOFF OGILVY:  Thank you.
Q.  Can you assess your position, where you are right now?  It's right where you want to be?
 GEOFF OGILVY:  I mean, yeah.  I started today probably maybe two back and I ended the day one back, so I'm going forward.  Yeah, I mean, more than happy.  If you told me on Thursday I was going to play in the second to the last group only one shot behind, I'd have been happy.
Q.  What would you say the strength of your game is, mentally, physically, the swing?
 GEOFF OGILVY:  The first few days I didn't hit it very well, just scrambled very well, got the ball up and down when I needed to.  I don't think I'm really strong in any area but I don't think I'm really weak in any area.  I just think I'm okay at everything.
Q.  As the week progresses, what's the toughest challenge that this course offers to all of you as you're trying to    you can see in your faces sometimes, really trying to    really working at trying not to fall back.
 GEOFF OGILVY:  That's sort of the way it's set up.  You've got to really take double bogeys out of the equation, make smart decisions and make sure    a couple of times when I ended up bogeying    13 today, I've got a 3 iron, one out of five times it's going to go over the green and a 4 iron is always going to be 60 feet short of the pin.  So you hit it to 60 feet and then you end up three putting.  That's kind of the decision you've got to make because I didn't feel good about hitting a fancy soft 3 iron in there.

That's the sort of thing that is frustrating because I can stand on the tee, and to know I'm going to have a 60 footer unless I hit one softly    that's the sort of thing you have to do, keep it under the hole, just damage control the whole time.  If I can keep it in the short grass, which I did most of the day off the tee, half your job is done.
Q.  What are you looking for as far as a score tomorrow?
 GEOFF OGILVY:  It's hard to say.  I mean, Kenneth played great today.  He could have had 2  or 3 under.  I'm sure Phil played great and had his chances and could have had 1 under.  But they also might have    it's not hard to have 3  or 4 over here.  It's almost impossible.  I mean, you really don't know.  It's too hard to guess.
Q.  To be going out tomorrow, though, in that second to last group, how special is that to you?
 GEOFF OGILVY:  I mean, it's good.  Anyone who asked before I started, what do I want out of this week, I said I wanted to be in contention on the weekend and play in one of the last few groups just to see what it was like.  I've played in the last few groups a lot but not at the U.S. Open.  Whatever happens, I just want to play well.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT