THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 12, 2006
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DAVE SENKO:  Well, Geoff, thanks for joining us.  Maybe quickly just go through your day today, looks like you're going to be the runner up and just maybe talk about your week a little bit.
GEOFF OGILVY:  Got off to a great start obviously this week, holing out and making double eagle in the first round and having another eagle.  The par 5s this week, I had three eagles and a double eagle which is kind of ridiculous in one week, another eagle today.

Maybe it came back to get me on 17.  I couldn't make birdie on 17 today from the middle of the fairway.  All in all, I played really well today.  Probably the solidest round I've played.  The only bogey that I really made I just kind of    both soft bogeys, and I got unlucky on 15 I thought.  Hit it in a divot on the bottom of the hill.  I don't know, but I assume everybody had a bit of trouble on 15 today because that was pretty awkward if you didn't hit it on the green.

I birdied 13, 14, 16, which is probably three of the best of four of the toughest holes you'll get almost anywhere and I birdied three of them.  That's pretty good result for me.  I'm more than happy.  I won a couple of weeks ago, did all I could today.  Luke is a great player, he's probably not overdue, but close to due, he's won all over the world and he's right up in the Top 10 in the world.  I'm nothing but happy for him.
DAVE SENKO:  If you can go through your birdies on that stretch.
GEOFF OGILVY:  13, I had a perfect tee shot, wedge in and I wedged to about four, three feet maybe.  It was a good shot.

14, I hit 2 iron off the tee because I like to lay it up off the back and stay in the bunkers.  I was way back and had to hit 4 iron in, but I hit the best 4 iron I've ever hit to about five feet and made birdie there.

16, I hit a perfect drive and 6 iron to 10 or 12 feet and hit a good putt, 15 feet, maybe, I don't know.

6, I hit a good drive, looked like it was left off the tee, but ended up just left of the fairway and it's pretty short rough there.  I hit a 6 iron I think to about 15 feet, 20 feet maybe and made it.
Q.  You watched him hit that last shot in at the flag, pretty impressive; you've been in a situation like that, how impressive to finish like that?
GEOFF OGILVY:  It's very impressive.  As I say, he's been winning everywhere, and the times he's been close here and not won    he's been close a couple of times at Torrey Pines.  Nothing he's done wrong, just people have done stuff better.  If he's not the best ball striker in the world, he's really close.  He's probably the most reliable guy with 5 iron in his hand.  And whatever he had into the last, 5  or 6 iron, you knew once he was on the fairway, that was it for me, you knew he was going to hit a good shot because he's a good player.  Very impressive, a bit of pressure, and you guys have probably all been getting on him on why you haven't won over here.  And to come up with a good shot like that, make his 2 putt from four feet is a lot easier, 2 putt from 30 feet, so pretty classy.
Q.  For you to go through that very difficult stretch, 13 through 16 with three birdies, that's impressive, too.  Is it a little frustrating?
GEOFF OGILVY:  Well, a couple of things.  I started the day two behind Luke.  I played really well, 13, 14, 16, I played just perfectly.  You can't play them any better than that.  I can just get nothing but confidence from that because three of the four holes, 15 as well, you kind of think about them all day, but you're thinking, it would be nice to get a few extra birdies before I get to the 13th tee because it doesn't seem like there's very many easy birdies after that.

So I birdied three of them when I needed to, and I needed to keep making birdies, I needed to get up there and put some pressure on Luke and Billy at that point.  So, I mean, it was nice to come up with birdies on tough holes.
Q.  Being in the divot on 15, how much more difficult of a shot is that?
GEOFF OGILVY:  Well, I went from a shot where it    it went from a shot where I would have been thinking, you can get this up and down, but you have to hit a really good shot.  It went from that, to, okay, how do I get this on the green.  It's hard to explain if you're not down there, but there was a whole clump of grass behind it and any sort of chip shot, it just could have gone down and I would have been in the same spot.  So with the putter I knew I had to get it close, and you could have hit it over the other side of the green and mine could have even rolled all the way back from where it went to.  It was just as soon as I came up and saw    when I was down there, I thought it's going to be an unbelievable par to make from here and then when I saw the lie, just make 4 and go away.
Q.  Just comment about wrestling with this golf course for the whole week; is it more fatiguing, draining?
GEOFF OGILVY:  I'm not too fatigued at the moment because I played nicely today.  I'm sure there will be a few guys who are pretty wary now.

It's a long week.  It's tough.  There's not a lot most golf courses there's a little bit of a let up, where you have a 7 iron from the middle of the fairway and a soft green up there, and if you hit a bad shot you have an easy chip and it's not quite as stressful.

But this course, at any given moment, you can just be a little bit off and it can bound off a bank or go into a lie like on 15 and you can make 5 or 6 in a heartbeat out here without doing too much wrong, so you have to pay attention the whole time more than maybe normal.  So in that respect, it's a bit weary.  But the last tournament I played 129 holes in five days, so this seems like a vacation.
Q.  Do you play Bay Hill next week?
GEOFF OGILVY:  I'm going to, yeah.
Q.  So you can continue to build on this, obviously?
GEOFF OGILVY:  Hopefully.  I've played reasonably well every year I've played the Honda and never really played very well at Bay Hill, so hopefully.  I don't see any reason why I can't play well at Bay Hill.  I like the golf course.  I can hit it kind of high and some of those par 3s, you need to keep the ball in the air to stop them on the greens.  So there's no reason to think why I haven't played well there before.  I'm looking forward to it.  I like the golf tournament.
DAVE SENKO:  Thank you, Geoff.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT