THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 10, 2006
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
DAVE SENKO:  Geoff, if you can just get us started, talk about your day, it was kind of an interesting finish for you.
GEOFF OGILVY:  It was.  It comes across like a really up and down round, but it was anything but; really in the first 14 holes, I played really well.  Should have really been probably 4 under for the round, not 2 under for the round I guess.  I didn't make any crazy putts at all to be 2 under.  I was on the front edge of 6 for two and didn't make birdie, and 12 nearly putted it off the other end of the green.  13 and 14 I made good pars.  15, I hit a reasonable first chip but got hammered by the wind and got up on the green and blew back off and then flubbed a chip and hit a really good up and down to make double; I could have made anything down there.

16, I just made a bogey, just a bogey hole.  It's playing really hard.  I drove it in the bunker which is not where you need to be.  It's playing straight into the wind and filthy, those four holes, again, like I said yesterday, the four hardest holes we get in a row anywhere.  Bogey there, and then got away with a big bonus, eagle.  I would have been happy to finish birdie par, but snuck away with another sneaky one on 17.

17, I hit driver up the fairway, I had 206 and hit 7 iron to six feet.
Q.  15, you got one of those that came back to your feet?
GEOFF OGILVY:  Twice.  I hit an awful tee shot, right, and hit a reasonable first kind of lob, kind of a lobby shot, but I felt like I got a wind gust.  It was going to be a shorter hole anyway, but it was going to be on the green short of the hole 12 feet and felt like it got a gust and trickled down to the bottom of the green again.  Then it's on the short stuff which is worse in the rough because it's really graining down that hill and it's really hard, and I flubbed a chip and then hit a good chip to about a foot.

So it's really not that bad a spot.  If the grain was going the way that you were hitting the shot, it would be the easiest shot in the world.  Everyone on Tour would get up and down 99 times out of a 100, but when the grain is going into you, it's unbelievable, very unforgiving.
Q.  What's the feeling when that happens, that's the nature of this golf course, what happened right there?
GEOFF OGILVY:  I told myself on the first one, just get it up the hill and try to make a good putt, and I didn't, and that was annoying.  I didn't let it get to me too much.  Everyone is going to have that happen out here probably more than once in the week, and that's really my first time I've done it.  So not too much damage done.  I could have been down there all day.
Q.  Today is only halfway through, but just generally your feelings and thoughts about your position going into the weekend?
GEOFF OGILVY:  Yeah, happy, I don't know where it will end up today, I don't think any of the guys who shot 5 were going to run away too far.  They might go and shoot 5 , or 6 under, Daniel shot 7 under, and Lee shot 5 under, and Luke Donald had 5 under today maybe, didn't he?  So there's some good scores out there I guess.  It seems to be getting windier.  Yeah, if you told me at the start on 10 tee yesterday if you told me 6 under after two round would you take it, I'd be ecstatic, so, yeah.
Q.  Is the wind changing around today from yesterday or is it kind of the same?
GEOFF OGILVY:  I don't think so.  I mean, it's hard with this golf course because it kind of goes in a big circle, so you change angle, kind of.  You change angles about ten degrees on every hole.

So I mean I think it's probably the same direction it was when we were playing.  It didn't really start blowing until we got on that third hole the par 3, and it was decently windy so we got two holes with not too much wind.  I think it's still the same direction it was.  It might have changed ten degrees or something but it didn't change a lot.
Q.  Is this more of an endurance test or survival test like an Open is than other tournaments?
GEOFF OGILVY:  It's more of a patience test than some tournaments, yeah, because any one bad shot and you can make a double before you know it.  Because if you miss it in the wrong spots, it's really awkward.  And some chip shots, you feel fortunate to be able to chip them on the green from some spots if you get uphill and downwind or something.

It's nothing like a U.S. Open in the fact that even if you hit it in the rough, you've got some chance, you've got some chance here.  But you do have that thought in your head of where to miss it like you do in some of those tough tournaments that you don't have at the birdie fests.  You don't think about where you miss it at the birdie fests; you just aim it at the pin and hit it.  These, you really think, do I need to hit it all the way back to the pin because if I hit it over the back, I'm done, so you have to think about where you leave it.  So I guess in that respect it's like that I guess.
DAVE SENKO:  Thanks, Geoff.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT