PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2005
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








GEOFF OGILVY:  Yesterday I let a few go.  I started poorly yesterday.  I kind of stuck it in there and had a bad 6 on 17 and birdied 18.  I thought if I could birdie 17 yesterday and maybe birdie 18 and get to 2 under, I would have had a good chance.  Today I just played nicely, so I kept it more in play today, probably more than any other day and I hit some good putts.

It's just nice to finish under par.  Especially now looking at it, it's frustrating, probably 4 under might win this tournament, so getting back three shots in the round, they are everywhere, but everyone is going to have them.  It's nice, you may end up somewhere near the Top 10 and that might be a nice place to finish.

I finished Top 10 in the British Open, so pretty happy with that.
Q.  Why so good in the majors?
GEOFF OGILVY:  I don't know.  Whatever I'm doing, I want to keep doing it.  British Open, I look back, and I really have played about 30 holes really bad.  I'm far behind Tiger but not that far behind second.  This week if I look back at the few things did I wrong, I'm still only going to be missing out by three or four.  I don't know, I just like the    historic golf isn't my favorite I guess, pitching out of the rough and stuff but really difficult I like.
Q.  Why is that?
GEOFF OGILVY:  It's not a putting contest.  It's a contest from tee to green and everything is tested today equally.  A regular tournament when the greens are soft, guys are shooting 25 under par and it's really whoever putts best wins.  Here it's the whole package and I get more fired up and enjoy that sort of golf more.  I seem to keep my head more when I make a bogey and don't lose it as much as I do in a normal week.

In a normal week, you drop back 20 places.  Here, everyone is making bogeys, so I seem to be able to stay patient when it's tough.

Every when you look back, you realize how many shots you throw away, you might have got a bit lazy or a bit headless or angry and may not have given yourself the best chance.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT