BUICK OPEN
July 30, 2005
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








GEOFF OGILVY:  I birdied the first, which I like to do here because of the par 5s, and you want to get off to a good start.  I birdied I think 4.  Hit a nice shot on the second and didn't like it, but birdied the fourth and kind of got cracking and making pars around, after being stuck in a rut, birdied 11.  And that's nice because then 14, 15, 16, you come into the run of the course where you can make a lot of birdies.  I went from having a nice round to a good round really quick.
Q.  When Vijay is playing this well, what will it take to
GEOFF OGILVY:  Well, an act of God?  Who knows.  I mean, normally at any course, there's a disaster out there, but there really isn't for a guy like him when he's playing well.  He can make a bogey or two, but he's just going to come right back and get a couple birdies.  It's hard when you shoot 65    he'll probably have better than 65 today.

I didn't really look at the leaderboard.  I saw that Tiger was a couple over after two and 3 over after three, so the pairing that everyone was waiting for kind of fizzled out a little bit after three holes.
Q.  Inaudible?
GEOFF OGILVY:  Well, yeah, is 11 under yesterday, if I have 11 under, I finish 25 under.  It's not beyond the realm of possibility that you can catch him, but it's unlikely.  Zach isn't going to fall back, Vijay slips up, it's a one shot tournament.  But I'm just going to go out and do what I did today, try to make birdie on every hole.
Q.  You've played well here
GEOFF OGILVY:  I did.  It's kind of like the same thing, you can play well anywhere, but at some point, I think when you play well, you can do well anywhere.

Here I've struggled and still done okay.  Usually I struggle I miss the cut, so there must be something out here that making me comfortable, or I like the greens or read them well or it fits my eye off the tee.  When I first got here, I didn't think this is a course I could do well at, but over the last few years, I've done all right.

Really yesterday, pretty perfect conditions.  You're going to have a hard time winning had tournament with a round like a 71.  Normally 71, when a 20 under is leading after 45 holes, you don't really    1 under, so the damage was already done.  If I did not shoot that yesterday, then I would be right there with Vijay, so not really that frustrated.  You know starting the week, when the greens are soft, the weather is perfect, it's not hot, it's not windy.  It's going to be somewhere in the 20s.  You could play every week out here and not win a golf tournament, just the nature of the Tour.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT