WACHOVIA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 8, 2004
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
CHRIS REIMER:  I'd like to thank Geoff Ogilvy for joining us.  6-under 66, 10-under for the tournament, what is it about the par 5s out here that allows you to be a little more aggressive in your scoring?
GEOFF OGILVY:  Par 5s I tend to play best because I'm a semi-long hitter, I guess.  This year has been good to me because I've been driving on more of the fairways.  The tee shots on the par 5s are tricky, especially the 4th.  I have to hit a 3-wood off that tee, because it's hard to fit a driver in there.  I've just driven it nicely off the par 5s, and when you do you've got long irons or fairway woods into the green.  You've got every chance.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
GEOFF OGILVY:  Hopefully.  It's been getting closer and closer.  I mean, I started the year awful.  I warmed up in Florida a bit.  And the last three weeks have been close.  I haven't had a good putting week this year.  I putted nicely today.  Yesterday I missed a few.  It's been gradually getting better every week.  Hopefully.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
GEOFF OGILVY:  I don't feel like that.  I hit it close today, I even missed a couple today from eight, nine feet, a couple of holes on the back nine.  I thought I had a good chance to go really low.  I don't know, I couldn't tell you if I hit it any closer than anyone else when I'm hitting it well.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
GEOFF OGILVY:  I just kind of look at the numbers.  They're very hard to read, the leaderboards.  They're right next to the green and they're bright and colorful.  Anyone who says they don't see one, they're almost lying, because you have to really try hard not to look at one.  I take a quick glance to see the numbers to how the course is playing that day, because sometimes you feel like you're playing great and everyone else is making birdies and you're not, sometimes it can be the other way around.  So just to get a feel for how I'm playing I'll take a look at the numbers.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
GEOFF OGILVY:  It's a gradual thing, really.  I was all over the place at the start of the year, as I said.  My putting has been -- has gone from awful to getting back to pretty decent.  Everything has been gradual.  I started driving it kind of decent in Tucson.  I went to Florida hitting it okay.  Sawgrass I was right there and messed up two days in a row, otherwise that would have been a good tournament.

Hilton Head, I was there or thereabouts.  Again, I must have hit it pretty nice to be there or thereabouts.  Every part of my game, it's just taken four months of the year to warm it up, I guess, is how I look at it.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
GEOFF OGILVY:  It's one of the best that we play.  It's a fantastic.  You go out for a walk and enjoy it.  It's just a nice place to walk around, even if there were no golf holes on it.  The greens are fantastic.  It's just a nice place.  It's long, but it's not crazy long for me.  I guess some guys are struggling with the length.  Nice par 3s and nice par 5s, everything about it, it's just a nice place, good holes, it's not overbunkered, it's not overwatered, the greens aren't too big.  Everything that sometimes can make these new courses not so good, this one does it all perfectly.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
GEOFF OGILVY:  I mean, I try not to, because patience is my worst virtue.  I think I'm pretty impatient.  I played with Adam the first time when he was about 15.  It's not a real surprise to see what he's doing.  He's looked like that since I've known him.  Stuart, obviously, he was just a little bit older than me, but he was always there.  Robert was always -- I know I can play with him, and it took Robert a few years to win over here, it took Stuart a few years to win over here.  It didn't take Adam very long; he's special.

Last year I was getting closer and closer, I was getting more consistent, having a chance a little bit more often.  No hurry.  That's what I tell myself anyway.
CHRIS REIMER:  Let's go through your club selection on your birdies.
GEOFF OGILVY:  3-wood in the sand on to about six inches or so.

5th hole was a 3-wood, 3-wood into the front bunker and putted it out to six inches or so.

No. 7 was a driver and 6-iron into the par 5, kind of down on the bottom level but a straightforward putt and 2-putted there.

10 was a perfect drive for the first time this week on that fairway, pulled a 2-iron left of the green, but got it up-and-down.  Actually hit a poor chip, but holed a putt from about 12 feet off the green.

13, I hit it about 20 feet right of the hole and made it with a 6-iron.

I birdied 18 with a driver and 9-iron.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
GEOFF OGILVY:  Every one of my goals would be to -- the Top 30, I guess, is the goal, because that gets you in everything.  And if that happened, I probably would be in the Top 50 in the world, so you double up.  Top 50 in the world is what you look for, and then you get into the Majors without having to qualify.

That's really been the ongoing goal for a few years.  Once you get there, you can reassess and start winning the Majors, but it's hard to get geared up to win Majors when you don't know if you're in them until Monday.  That's the goal, to bring the consistency up.  I used to make six cuts a year, and now I seem to be making a lot more, and I'm making pretty good checks and ranking points.  Consistency, really.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT