BUICK OPEN
August 3, 2003
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








GEOFF OGILVY:  I played good.  64 is what I needed.  That was a thought I just had to get off to a good start.  I birdied the first three holes, which gets you relaxed and comfortable.  I guess you're a little excited playing with Tiger, especially the first few holes.  Then had a quick bogey, but then from about 7 onwards, I played really nicely.  I didn't drive the ball very well, but I didn't really hit it dead at all.  I missed a few fairways but it was okay.  It was fun.  It was a shame to bogey 17.  You can never hit it on the green 30 feet behind the hole and not have a tough 3-putt.  It was good fun all day.


Q.  That win has eluded you so far, but you can't be disappointed today in a T-2 finish, because you put yourself into contention? 

GEOFF OGILVY:   I did.  I really lost the tournament Thursday.  In a tournament that you have to shoot 20-under, you shoot 2-under the first round, you're behind the 8-ball before you start.  Since then, I played well, especially Friday to Sunday.  It's always a long road back from 2-under because you know you have to shoot 18- or 19- (under) in three days.  I did a pretty good job.  I was pretty happy. 


Q.  You said there really was not much of a difference in your game between today and the last six weeks, just that you were tired?

GEOFF OGILVY:   Obviously, my game wasn't the same, but I haven't really done anything different apart from just take a few weeks off. 


Q.  Something like that, do you practice more, or get away for a while?  What do you do? 

GEOFF OGILVY:   I started practicing more, and it sort of snowballs.  You miss one cut and all of the sudden it's three or four because you're beating yourself into the same hole on the range and the chipping and putting green and stuff.  I should have realized where I was at, taken a few weeks off, come back and I would have been playing pretty good.


Q.  Is it frustrating when you get four straight Top-25s and then  six missed cuts? 

GEOFF OGILVY:   No one wants to play like that.  You want to play pretty decent all the time.  There's a fine line out here though between finishing Top-5, Top-10 to missing a cut.  I'm sure there's probably stories this week of guys who just made the cut and got into the Top-10 or 15.  It's such a fine line that you can actually be playing okay out here and missing cuts.  When you miss cuts, you don't think you're playing well.  And then you sort of get down on yourself and then it leads into not playing well at all.  So you've just got to know your own game and realize how you're playing and know what to work on when it goes bad.


Q.  Is this something that's going to really help you maybe down the road or do you need to string together a couple good tournaments in a row now?

GEOFF OGILVY:   Any time you play with Tiger Woods, it's going to help you in the future, I think, just purely from all the chaos that goes on around him.  On a Sunday coming down the stretch, having a bit of a chance, it can only help you experience-wise.  Next time I get in that situation, I'll feel a bit more comfortable.


Q.  Have you ever played with him, and how much of a distraction was it when people are moving and you're hitting, getting ahead to watch him?

GEOFF OGILVY:   I've played with him twice before:  Once in Thailand, which was out of control because they like him in Thailand, and once in Germany.  You get used to it.  I played with Greg Norman an in Australia and it's the same sort of deal.  You almost focus better because it's just a general noise and general chaos around you.  It's almost better that way than one guy or one person moving or one bit of movement.  When it's just general noise, I just seem to focus all right in that situation. 


Q.  More fun, too, having 20,000 people cheering a birdie than nobody out there; right? 

GEOFF OGILVY:   And also, any time you hit a good shot, they scream and holler.  Doesn't matter if you're Tiger or not.  His screams are louder, but they want to see some good shots hit.  It's a good feeling when you make a putt and they are all going in. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT