INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY QWEST
August 2, 2002
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  It was pretty tough out there today and you battled it pretty well.  Why don't you talk about the round and then we will go into some quick questions.
GEOFF OGILVY:  Yeah.  I didn't think it was that bad really to be honest.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Well, compared --
GEOFF OGILVY:  I didn't see what they played in this morning.  But I thought it wasn't too bad for me.  I think I birdied one and two.  And it's a great format.  If you can make four birdies you know you're back into it.  It's a nice format like that.  Then when we got to about nine, nine or 10 it started getting pretty crazy.  And 11 was just unbelievable.  Standing there on that, 200 feet above the ground.  And your ball is 300 feet above.  You just guess and hit it and hope it's right.  It's unbelievable.  17 is a par-5 and I hit 2-iron badly and I hit 8-iron pin high.  I mean Greg Chalmers played it 2 -iron, wedge.  To a par-5 that yesterday that was playing driver, 4-iron short.  So just I hit I had wedge to the back edge on the 18th from 175 yards.  And I hit wedge 130 yards.  And it was a soft wedge at that.  It's unbelievable. 
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Questions? 
Q.  You hit 2-iron wedge at 17 you said?
GEOFF OGILVY:  Yeah, it was playing like that.  I actually missed mine to the right rough.  I didn't run that much.  I hit it about pin high.  I had 215 yards, I hit 8-iron.  I mean it was bouncy as well.  I mean there's some soft patches but most of the patches around the green are pretty firm as well.  So I had 207 yards down wind.  I hit a 8-iron.  It was incredible.

Q.  Have you ever seen conditions like this?
GEOFF OGILVY:  Yes.  Not often in the states.  Usually it's windy like this if there's a storm coming in.  I played in Europe for three years and Europe this is, every second day is like this.  Not this year.  I mean in Florida you can get some wind.  I think Doral was the last time we had a wind like this.  Doral was probably windier, actually, on Friday.  But this one makes it hard because the elevation changes, it's hard not to get confused out here.  Because the ball goes 15 percent or however far.  Sometimes it's 15 percent, sometimes it's 20 percent.  And then you add that to a 30 mile an hour wind behind you when you're a hundred feet in the are and it's anybody's guess.  You just got to pick a club that's in the vicinity and hit it and hope it's all right.  It's pretty hard. 

Q.  Considering yesterday you went out in the morning which people said was harder, today you went out in the afternoon.  Do you feel a little bit fortunate that you made it to where you are today?
GEOFF OGILVY:  I'm happy to be in the position I am.  Coming up the last I looked at the leaderboard and there was maybe three guys from this side of the draw.  It's nice to lead.  I don't know if I'm going to lead, but I'll be near it.  From this side of the draw I guess that's nice.  I'm playing pretty good.  So for this format it suits me.  I am probably not even 2-under par.  But I had birdies and bogeys and that is an, I had a couple of birdies early.  I had three birdies I guess in the first five or six.  And then it's, you get in front of it a little bit so you can hang on through the stretch and hope you get a couple birdies later on.  That's all I did. I got a good start and hung on and then a late birdie.

Q.  How often would you say that you changed clubs where you pull one club out and put it back and take another one on your back nine?
GEOFF OGILVY:  I didn't do that too much.  But I changed clubs before I hit the shot.  10 times.  Probably 10 or 15 times.  You think it's a 6-iron and then no, probably a 7.  You might end up hitting eight.  Or it can be the other way around.  You're going uphill into the wind and you think, oh, take the altitude in it should be a 6-iron, but you end up hitting a 4-iron short.  I mean it's difficult.  It's hard getting, as I said before, getting a club out here with no wind, but putting the wind, that's another dimension.  I never had to play with wind like this at altitude.  The elevation changes I'm pretty sure is what make it's so hard.

Q.  Was your experience in Europe, do you think that helped you be able to deal at least with the wind factor out here a little bit better than maybe some of the other players?
GEOFF OGILVY:  I think it helped.  In Australia we play in the wind.  Not like this, but it's windy every day.  It's 15 miles an hour.  In Europe it's windy two days a week.  You don't get a still tournament very often.  That helps I think.  But these guys have all been played in wind before.  Everyone's played in Texas and Florida.  Most guys live in Florida and play in 20 mile an hour wind on a good day.  So I don't think I'm any, playing in Europe gave me any great advantage in the wind I don't think.

Q.  Do you lean on your caddy a little bit more in conditions like this or not?
GEOFF OGILVY:  Yeah, definitely.  I mean this is my first time here.  He's been a here a lot.  He used to caddy for Jesper so he's been here two or three times.  And he caddied in Europe a long time.  And in the European Masters which is in Switzerland. I met him.  And so he's caddied a lot at altitude.  So he's on most of the time.  Sometimes it could have been an eight or a six, I didn't even know, I just asked him and he says, I think it's playing 145 or he'll tell me how far he thinks it's going to play.  And he'll let me decide the club from there.  But I very much relied on him today. 

Q.  Can we go through your card?
GEOFF OGILVY:  First I hit driver up the left.  Hit a 2-iron sort of front right end of the green and 2-putted.  It was pretty straightforward there. 
Second hole, I hit 2-iron, pitching wedge pretty close.  Maybe four, five feet. 
The fifth I hit driver, 9-iron.  10 feet short and made it. 
Then 17 -- was the only other one 17? 
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Well, can we do your bogeys too.
GEOFF OGILVY:  That par three, the 7th hole is probably the toughest par-3 I ever played.  And it might have been 190 to the pin and I hit wedge over the back.  I was thinking maybe a hard wedge or a 9.  And Greg Chalmers got up before me and flew wedge 30 yards past the pin.  So he would have flown 210 yards.  That's when we started realizing it's pretty tough out here.  And I hit it just right of the green.  A little down slope.  And up-and-down is pretty tough out here.  I didn't get up-and-down. 

Q.  How far would you say?
GEOFF OGILVY:  Probably about 30 feet past the pin he hit it.  Because the pin's at that front right little bit of a horseshoe and he flew it to the back bunker with a wedge from 190 something.  I mean it was just -- it all depends on how high you hit it.  I mean if you hit it low it will get knocked down and the wind won't affect it.  But if you hit it up in the air.  It never wanted to come down, I guess.  It was unbelievable. 
Nine, I hit driver in the water on the right.  I had to find -- the ball actually was above ground but it was right on the edge.  Unplayable.  And I took a drop and it rolled in the rough and even from the rough I couldn't get it on the green.  And I chipped it out and made a good putt for bogey, actually.  About 10 feet.  Eight feet. 
11, I hit the best shot I hit all day.  I hit a good shot in there.  And ended up, it was coming down just left of the green.  I hit a great chip shot.  Soft, landed just on the edge of the green and trickled to three feet.  And then it trickled to the right and right on the edge of the tier by the pin.  I hit a great putt and I lipped it out.  That was just one of those things.
16, I hit kind of up and out of it.  On the right back right edge I, that was tough to putt it up-and-down.  And the wind was howling up the left.  So you think it might not break so much but it does break and then, yeah. 
And then I hit a 2-iron in the right rough.  8-iron, chipped it up about eight feet and made it. 
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Any more questions?  All right.  Thank you.



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT