THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 10, 2001
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
GEOFF OGILVY:   I guess I played really good today.  I felt like I left a few shots out there.  It was one of the easiest golf courses you're ever going to play; it was soft, no wind, the greens are running good.  But 65, it's hard to be disappointed and hopefully Jesper doesn't run away too far, but I should be in reasonable shape for tomorrow, but I'll need to score to do well tomorrow.  
 

Q.  Could you compare the conditions, yesterday and today? 
 
GEOFF OGILVY:   Yesterday for me was a lot harder.  I mean.  The greens were bouncy.  We had a pretty strong wind, around 15, 20 miles an hour.  I played in the last group yesterday.  Completely different golf course.  Today, you could pitch it to the pin; it would stop.  Greens were not too fast downhill or into the wind at all, really, to speak of, except when you turned around 14, 15, it blew straight downwind.  Completely different golf course today.  It was there for the taking.  
 

Q.  Is it more fun to play like this rather than grueling and battling in the wind? 
 
GEOFF OGILVY:   A different kind of fun.  The grueling wind, bouncing greens, having a lots of low shots can be a lot of fun.  Doing it every day is no fun, but it can be a lot of fun.  I mean, we did it every week in Europe the last couple years that I played; that's what we do is grind against the weather.  But it's nice shooting low scores, definitely, and making birdies.  I guess anyone who plays golf at any level is going to say that shooting low, to their level is always nice.  It's a fun way to play golf, but a different sort of fun.  
 

Q.  Can you speak about trying to win for the first time?
 
GEOFF OGILVY:   Yeah, I haven't won yet as a pro.  I'm just going to try as hard as I could, I guess.  I haven't been in position on this tour before to win a tournament, but there's no real difference between coming down the stretch against anybody, I think.   It's similar  -- it just seems like on this tour, there's not just one or two guys that can win Sunday; there's 15 guys that have got a chance to.  It will probably be similar tomorrow, unless Jesper goes and runs away.  Just go out and try to do the same thing again.  I guess that's all you can really do, just play as good as you can.  I'll tell you how I go about it when I get in a position tomorrow.  
 

Q.  Adam Scott is also up there with a chance.  We hear so much about Aaron Baddeley, but we don't hear as much about Adam.  Could you just talk about Adam, his game, as a person? 
 
GEOFF OGILVY:   Adam, a very nice kid.  He's a really nice guy.  I spent a fair bit of time with him in Europe last year.  He's a pretty impressive golfer.  I mean, one week, he led in driving distance and accuracy in the same week.  So he drives the ball fantastic, a long way, hits it straight, confident.  He's not scared of shooting low numbers the all.  Last year he was in the Top-10 every week in Europe.  He's not scared of the positions, either.  He won in Europe, I guess, earlier this year.  So he's the real deal.  He's a pretty good player. 
 

Q.  Do you know where that was, where he led?
 
GEOFF OGILVY:   Belgium, it was, at the end of the year.  He led driving distance and accuracy in the same week and I'm quite sure that doesn't happen.  I'm sure Tiger has done it a couple of times, but, yeah, he's pretty impressive. 
 

Q.  You say you have not won yet as a pro on any tour?
 
GEOFF OGILVY:   Mm-hmm. 
 

Q.  What's been your closest, a playoff once or twice?
 
GEOFF OGILVY:   I've finished second a few times.  Finished second to Tiger a few months ago in Taiwan.  Finished second in the same tournament with him before, the Johnnie Walker.  Finished second in Australia a couple times.  But they were not like coming down the stretch, tied-for-the-lead positions.  They were always a couple shots back every time.  I always seem to run out of holes.  Yeah, it would be nice to get that first one away.  
 

Q.  What do you think of Lee Janzen's record setting today, setting the course record today? 
 
GEOFF OGILVY:   What did he shoot today? 
 

Q.  64. 
 
GEOFF OGILVY:   It's out there for the taking.  Yeah, I mean, it's a good score.  If you'd asked me  -- if I didn't know that, I would have expected someone to shoot lower, actually, to be honest with you.  But a pretty good score.  I mean, the par 5's are there for the taking there today.  They are soft, so I'm quite sure there's going to be a lot of scores under 70 today.  
 
GEOFF OGILVY:   1st hole was a driver and a sand iron to six feet and I made the putt. 2 was a driver and a sand iron, also to three feet, probably.  That was a nice way to start.  4, the par-5, driver and a 4-iron.  Used my sand iron to eight feet and made birdie. 9, I had driver and 3-wood, sort of pin-high, ten yards off the green and pitched in.  Nice shot.  I birdied 14.  Hit a good drive  -- sorry, I had a very poor drive in the fairway trap.  Hit a 2-iron on the green, then hit a good putt, but didn't fall so I made birdie.  16, I hit driver, poor drive again off the par -5, but it was all right, just in the right rough.  I hit 4-iron pin-high left quite close, to just hit the bunker and then had five feet for birdie. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT