DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 31, 2014
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Any frustration getting off to the slow start there?  What clicked on the back nine?  GEOFF OGILVY: Today?  Not really.  I putted well on the back nine, really.  The first two days was putting frustration.  Yesterday, especially.  I hit the ball really well yesterday.  And I had chances all day.  I was 3- or 4-under for the round yesterday after nine holes yesterday.  I kind of missed every 6-footer I had on the back nine, which makes it difficult.  If you're going to contend you have to hole a few six footers every now and then.  I missed them all.  That puts you in a bad mood.  So I was pretty over it last night, frustrated. And the front nine was kind of the same story.  I just had a few semi chances, just didn't make anything, and all of a sudden I made a putt on 10 and made a par-putt on 11 and made a good putt on 12.  It's amazing what a couple of putts will do to your demeanor and the scorecard and everything.  So basically I just found the putter for the last nine holes, which is fun.   Q.  Do you still feel like you're playing house money here this week?  GEOFF OGILVY: Yeah, everything is a bonus.  I mean this time last week I was going home or I was home.  I was just creeping back into. I was content with that.  As a matter of fact I set my mind to the Fry's or whatever, and have a few weeks off with the kids.  I got back in, which was a bonus. The first couple rounds weren't amazing here, but I was still in it.  I was still in it to get to BMW, if I had a decent weekend.  I had a really good day today.  I'm sure they're going to have a few birdies this afternoon, these boys.  But I'm within a shout to get to the top 70, and maybe even better than that. It's nice to still have a reason to come out and have a good round tomorrow.   Q.  How much is that going to change your confidence from you said you were thinking you were done, and now you have a pretty decent chance to keep it going?  GEOFF OGILVY: I guess that's the beauty of these things.  I think they've got the balance pretty right, of rewarding the guys good years and giving everyone in the field a chance to have a little bit of glory or fun in the playoffs. Outside of Reno I didn't really have a good year.  I was coming in a long way down the list.  But you're one week away of getting all the way to Atlanta and having a chance to win the whole thing, which is nice.  Still I guess I'm one good round away from the same sort of story.  They've got the balance right.  It's a really fun way to end the season.  I think they've got it right.  I really like the system now.  The guys who probably don't like it are the guys who finish 20th for the year and have a couple of bad weeks and all of a sudden they don't get to go to Atlanta.  But people who finish way on the back of the money list, like you say, it's house money, you get a chance not to salvage your year, but make more out of your year than you got out of it.  So it's nice.   Q.  Do you think that a day like today was in the cards for you after your first two days?  GEOFF OGILVY: Well, last night, no, because I don't know how you shoot low scores when you don't make putts.  But all of a sudden I started making putts on the back nine and I just kept going, which has been a rare one.  It happened in Reno.  I didn't really expect to do that.  I know I'm hitting the ball well enough to shoot scores like that.  So now it's nice to see the ball go into the hopefully I can do it Monday.  If I putt like that I'd do all right, I think.   Q.  The way you performed on 18 --  GEOFF OGILVY: It's pretty nice.  I played the par 5s so badly this week.  I've hit perfect drives on most of them and had like mid-irons and shortish shots in and hardly made a birdie on any of them.  The only time I did make a birdie on a par 5, I think I got it up and down out of the hazard on the second, strangely enough. But 18 I played awful after three perfect tee shots.  Until today.  I hit a great shot in there.  Actually I hit 3-wood off the tee and was way back, and actually I was annoyed that I left myself 260 in, but it worked out all right.   Q.  260?  GEOFF OGILVY: 260, yeah.  I had 3-wood, such an awkward tee shot downwind that driver is too much and 3-wood is not as far as you want to hit it.   Q.  Iron?  GEOFF OGILVY: 3-iron, yeah.  It's a short 260, but it's still 260.   Q.  It's not a Reno 260?  GEOFF OGILVY: No, but it landed short of the green.  So you're never really worried about getting it over the hazard if you get the ball off the club face.  But it's a small target from 260.   Q.  Isn't Reno Sunday something that will be good to lean on tomorrow?  GEOFF OGILVY: Yeah, it's obviously nice to have recent history, recent history of doing good stuff on Sundays.  Most of us kind of remember doing good stuff, but obviously the more recent the memory the clearer it is in your mind. So it's only a month ago now that I've had a really good Sunday and hit great shots and made putts down the stretch.  It can only help.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT