BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 3, 2014
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  DOUG MILNE:   We'd like to welcome Geoff Ogilvy, the winner of the 2014 Barracuda Championship.   
Congratulations on your eighth PGA TOUR win, first since 2010.   With win you move well inside the top 100 in FedExCup and earn a berth into this week's PGA Championship, and the list goes on and on.   
I will turn it over to you for some comments on the victory.  
GEOFF OGILVY:   Well good, Doug.   Obviously it feels like it's been a long time coming.   Feels like a long time ago, Maui in 2010.  
Yeah, it's been a bit rough the past few years.   I was playing really well most of year this year.   Just didn't make any putts, which was kind of the story for the last two or three years, which is usually the story when you ask a pro why isn't he shooting good scores.   It usually ends up being the putter that's the one he blames at least.  
So I kind of felt things were turning around most of this year.   Without really getting any sort of runs on the board, I knew I was playing well.  
So, yeah, nice to come here and play well.   I said it other there on the green, but I was 50/50 on coming here this week.   On Monday night I had like a really long trip back from Canada and I was tired and over it and frustrated.   Everyone talked to me into it.   Said, Come to Reno.   You'll like Reno.   You're playing well.  
So as soon as I decided to come up here I was pretty excited.   I love playing on the west coast.   I love the dry air.   I live in Arizona, so similar kind of feel.   I always like this golf course and tournament.  
And the format suits me, I think.   So got off to a really good start.   Holed a couple nice putts on the front nine on Thursday.   From then on, I barely missed a shot.   Obviously missed a few here and there.  
But for 72 holes it was one of the better body of works I've put together for 72 holes for sure.   Nice to play lay really well today.   Justin obviously played really well and put a lot of points on the board today.  
Nice to make a timely eagle on the back nine and right the ship a little bit I guess after a bogey.   Kind of didn't really miss a shot on the way in, which was nice.  
MODERATOR:   With that, we'll take questions.   
   
 Q.   I guess there is nothing quite like your first win, but given what you've gone through in the last three or four years, is this one kind of emotional or more special for you?  
GEOFF OGILVY:   It's pretty satisfying.   Been some pretty rough packing up in the locker rooms missing cuts and having bad finishes.   
People watch the TV and see all the fun and happiness of the PGA TOUR golf, but it can be pretty desperately depressing as well spending time away from home, beating your head against the wall, just getting frustrated.   
Depressing is a bit strong a word, but really frustrating.   So there has been some pretty rough times in the last couple years.   Yeah, this is nice.   Doesn't feel like a first win, but it's a very satisfying win.   Maybe one of the most important wins ever.  
All the other ones came soon after other wins and golf was going well.   This is when I was way out of the FedExCup and the world ranking had slipped a long way.   So nice to turn the ship around, if you like.  
The ship probably kind of had turned most of the way around.   When you keep readjusting and it's not turning and it's not turning and you kind of chase it really hard, this one I think turned the ship in the right direction.  
Hopefully I can build on it.   So maybe most important win.   Maybe.   
   
 Q.   Doug Ferguson tweeted a few minutes ago that this gets into the PGA and Kapalua.   He said, I don't know which one he'll want more.   Thoughts on that.  
GEOFF OGILVY:   Without taking any offense to the PGA, Kapalua is a much more exciting prospect than the PGA.   Not that the PGA isn't an exciting prospect, but the last two times I played Kapalua won.   It's also in Maui, which is not a rough place to start the year.   I've missed it the past few years, so pretty excited to go back there.   
Obviously I'm happy I'm in the PGA.   Haven't missed a PGA for a really long time.   I had already mentally kind of checked out it and have to check back into it, I guess, tonight.   
I don't like missing the big tournaments.   I love playing in the big tournaments.   To get back in with this win to next week is pretty nice.   
   
 Q.   Take us through the eagle.   What did you hit into the green?  
GEOFF OGILVY:   Driver, 7‑iron.   Really good driver and had 7‑iron ‑‑ after my altitude calculation it was playing 174, so I figured add 17 to that.   195 or 6 or something real yardage, and we kind of take about 10% off for distance here because of the altitude.  
So it was a pretty comfortable play.   I liked the club.   I pushed it a little bit.   I thought it was going to be just on the edge of the green but it stayed on the green and I hit a really good putt.   Timely time to make a putt, I guess.  
   
 Q.   Justin passed you by a point.   Did you realize that at that point?  
GEOFF OGILVY:   No, I didn't really have a board‑‑ the first board on the back nine is on the next tee maybe, 14th tee maybe.  
So I didn't.   But I kind of assumed that he probably would've been, because he was whatever he was, 41 or 40 points or whatever he was after 11 holes.  
I'm like, Well, he's probably going to par 12 and birdie 13, because that's kind of what happens.   Hopefully he doesn't eagle it.   
So when I got up there and saw the board after I make the eagle he was kind of the score that I was always imagining he was, but I didn't really know at the time.   It's actually probably better not to know at the time.  
DOUG MILNE:   Did you hit driver over the green?  
GEOFF OGILVY:   3‑wood over the green on what was that, 14?   
DOUG MILNE:   Yeah.  
GEOFF OGILVY:   The ball goes so far here, especially in the afternoon.   I think it was about 295 to the pin.   Normally that would be a driver.   That probably plays 260 here maybe.   That's kind of about 3‑wood distance.   
So I think it took one or two bounces and went over the back of the green, which I think is kind of a good spot to miss it on that hole.   The layup is really awkward there.   For the back pins it's all right, the wedge shot.   But the wedge shot to the front pin is really hard because that green goes the wrong way.  
I wasn't really trying to go straight at it.   I was trying to just hit it front left edge of the green and make a birdie from there.   I hit a really good shot straight over the green and got up and down.  
   
 Q.   Two questions:   On 13, four days and 72 holes, a lot of good shots you hit, was getting the eagle today, was that the crucial moment?  
GEOFF OGILVY:   Probably.   As I said, I wasn't watching the leaderboard like you guys probably were.   I wasn't aware that I needed‑‑ I didn't need to make an eagle.   I needed to make a birdie.  
I kind of guessed.   Looking back, that's a pretty key moment.   I made eagle there on Friday, too, and that was pretty timely because I wasn't having an amazing day on Friday.   To throw five points in there towards the end of my round on Friday was pretty important.  
Any eagle in this format is probably the most valuable.   Eagle is better than making two birdies and you do it all in one hole.   So, yeah, that one probably is the most important one of the week, closely followed by the eagle on Friday probably.  
   
 Q.   Which was kind of leading into my second question:   You went birdie, eagle, birdie, eagle on No. 13, a hole that suited you well this week.   Talk about that.   
GEOFF OGILVY:   I guess it did.   I mean, normally I would never love a tee shot that was definitively a left‑to‑right tee shot.   Kind of a draw tee, like 6 and stuff, 5 and 6 I really like.   They look good to me.  
But I hit good drives every time and hit really good shots in there every time‑ most times.   Yeah, I guess it just suited my eye this week and I hit good shots.   It's the shortest of the par‑5s.   Probably the one you're most likely to eagle.  
Yeah, it was a bonus.   It's hard to win this tournament without putting an eagle in there somewhere in 72 holes, so to have two is a big step forward.   It's nice.   
   
 Q.   You were also the first foreign‑born winner here.   
GEOFF OGILVY:   That's a crazy stat, isn't it?   
   
 Q.   Any thoughts on that?  
GEOFF OGILVY:   That's hard to believe, isn't it?   I guess it's not crazy.   The majority of the PGA TOUR is made up by Americans, but the last 20 years there has been an influx of foreign‑born players.   
So there wouldn't be many tournaments I wouldn't have thought that would have that stat.  
DOUG MILNE:   This is the longest.   15 years of American winners.  
GEOFF OGILVY:   Like I said, there wouldn't be many like that.   So that's cool.   Maybe I spoiled the streak.   That's all right.   I'm half American now.   I'm married to an American girl and my kids are American.   I choose to live here, so...   
   
 Q.   You clearly are American.   You know the 405 and everything.   
GEOFF OGILVY:   Very well versed with the 405.   Anyone who has ever played Riviera knows what the 405 is all about.   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   Seemed like there might have been a little bit of an issue with slow play today.   Did you have a word with TOUR officials?  
GEOFF OGILVY:   I had never played with Jason before.   Took me aback that he was a little bit slower than I imagined.   It's actually perfect on a day like today to play with someone like him.   When we're playing three balls off two tees we go too slow.   It's just crazy.   It's just slow.  
So to play a guy that's a little bit more deliberate is handy, because we didn't have to wait at all really.   If we had three fast players‑ Nick is pretty fast and I am pretty fast‑ we would be banging up and waiting on every tee.  
So it works out quite well.   I just hadn't played with him before.   Took me by surprise.   He was actually miles better the last 14 or 15 holes.   First few holes took me by surprise actually.  
As I said, it works out well when you're playing three balls off two tees.   You don't want to be fast.   You spend your whole day waiting on tees.   So it worked out well.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT