BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
July 31, 2014
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Geoff, 16 points; eight birdies; no bogeys.   Just what you want in this format.   
GEOFF OGILVY:   Yeah, I played well.   Kind of weird.   Was a bit 50/50 on actually coming here.   Even after last week I was kind of just frustrated and not making enough birdies really.   
I thought, Well, I'm going to come and make 18 pars and score enough points.   It doesn't work.   Yeah, 8 birdies is the most birdies I've had for a long time.   Like you said, perfect for this format.  
   
 Q.   What was the key to the round?  
GEOFF OGILVY:   I've been hitting it well every week.   I just haven't made any putts.   It's the normal story when you ask most of us out here what's working and what's not.  
When putting is working it goes well.   A few putts went in.   I hit the ball really well, and then I actually had a few short once I didn't make.   But I did make a couple bonus long ones putting mostly.  
   
 Q.   Take me through the last four, starting on 13.   Three in a row there.   
GEOFF OGILVY:   Was that our front nine?   
   
 Q.   You started on the front.   
GEOFF OGILVY:   I started on the back.   
   
 Q.   Oh.   Take me through the birdies that were significant, Geoff.   Good one on the last hole, that's for sure.   
GEOFF OGILVY:   Yeah, I birdied ‑‑ yeah, 13, par‑5, I hit it kind of next to the green in two and got up and down.   That was pretty normal.   
The next one the tee is up on that short par‑4.   I hit 3‑wood just short of the green, chipped it pretty close, and made birdie.   Those are the kind of holes you're supposed to birdie, the par‑5s and the short par‑4s.   
Birdied the next.   Hit a good wedge to about 10 feet.  
9 I hit it on the green in two ‑‑ 18.   Used to be 9.   
18 I hit it on the green in two and two‑putted for birdie.   
Then hit it really close on 10. 1, sorry.   Last time I played it was the other way around.   Did you know that?   
   
 Q.   No, I didn't realize that.   
GEOFF OGILVY:   On 1 I hit it close with a wedge; tapped it in.   
Then had a pretty short one on 2; missed it.  
I hit good shots for a couple holes and didn't make it.   
Then the one on the way downhill, whatever that is, 5?   4?   5 I hit another pretty good wedge to six or eight feet and made it.  
Hit two great shots on 17 ‑‑ on 8 into the front bunker.   It was kind of dead, which was a shame because I hit two pretty good shots and I hit a bunker shot about 40 feet past and made it, which was the bonus part of the day.   
Then 18 hit a great drive.   Had about 80 yards and hit it to about six feet and made it.  
   
 Q.   Dialed in all day.   
GEOFF OGILVY:   I just played really well, yeah.   I mean, it was there for the taking.   
I birdied the holes I was supposed.   You know, to every time I had a wedge or a short shot I hit it pretty close and made it and birdied three of the par‑5s, so...   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT