WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 2, 2014
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   67, round 2. Pretty good turn‑around.   
GEOFF OGILVY:   Yeah, it wasn't really a turn‑around, I just made a few extra putts today.   
I actually probably hit the ball better yesterday and just tore my hair out missing 6 and 8‑footers all day.   But I knew I was hitting it well, and if I could "hole" a few ‑‑ and we had a bit more of an opportunity this morning because the wind was down and we had it pretty tough yesterday with the wind.   So we had the wind down, it was the morning to have a good score, and thankfully as I said, I made a few extra putts and made a lot of birdies, birdied the par 5, which I didn't do yesterday, which helps.   
   
 Q.   You've won some pretty big stages at some pretty large golf courses.   This Quail Hollow seems to fit your personality.   
GEOFF OGILVY:   I've always played nicely here.   I like the place, I got a good feel about it.   I like it off the tee, it suits what I do well, I guess.   So, yeah, it's the sort of place that I feel like I can play well.   I've had a couple of top‑10s, when I was here before, and I always feel like it's a reasonable tournament and it's a place I like, so there is no reason why I can't play well.   
   
 Q.   You missed a few putts yesterday; you made them today.   What was the difference?   
GEOFF OGILVY:   I don't know.   I've been struggling with the putter for a long time.   I kind of opened my stance and it seemed to make all the difference.   Putting is funny, sometimes you move your left foot and all of the sudden the hole starts to look bigger.   I don't know if that was it or if the greens were smoother this morning or what, but whatever it is about that, it makes you feel better about your golf when you "hole" a few.   
   
 Q.   Good round today, bounced back.   Do you feel good about where you stand right now?   
GEOFF OGILVY:   I guess, yeah.   I wouldn't call it a "bounce‑back."   I played well yesterday, didn't make any putts.   I actually hit the ball better yesterday than I did today, strangely enough, just didn't birdie the par 5 yesterday, and yesterday was a tougher afternoon than this morning.   We had every opportunity to have a good score today.   The wind was down and fresher greens to putt on, so nice to see the ball go in the hole on the greens, really, which was the only difference.   
   
 Q.   Was that the difference between the morning and the afternoon?   The conditions being more benign today?   
GEOFF OGILVY:   Yesterday was difficult, I thought.   It was windy.   Any of those guys who shot 4 or 5‑under yesterday in the afternoon, that was a "proper" golf score.   Holes like 16, 17‑‑ I mean, Stuart hit a ball yesterday that was over dry land on shore, on 17, and it must have flown back‑‑ it was the craziest thing.   It was like a ping‑pong ball in the wind.   That's how windy it was at times.   I thought the afternoon was really tough yesterday.   
I was quite happy with even par yesterday.   I wouldn't have been happier to hole a few more putts, but today was the opportunity.   You can get home on every par 5 today when it's not too windy, and the greens are smoother in the morning, and as I said.   It's basically just nice to "hole" a few more putts today.   
   
 Q.   You will be going later tomorrow, depending on where the leaders end‑‑  
GEOFF OGILVY:   It's different when you get to the weekend, because everyone holding similar scores goes off at the same time.   It will get breezy this afternoon.   Golf is usually easier in the morning than it is the afternoon.   This looks like it's going to turn out to be a pretty even draw.   When you do get your chance in the morning, it's nice to make a few birdies.   
   
 Q.   So as you go into the weekend, you're happy with 72, pleased with 67, what do you feel it's going to take for you on the weekend to climb a little more?   Is it going to be 68, 67, Saturday, Sunday?   
GEOFF OGILVY:   I don't know what's coming up.   I don't know where they're going to put the pins and the tees.   This course can be really tough.   Usually if you shoot under par on the weekend you go forward not backwards.   
But then sometimes Sunday, the windiest Sunday I ever saw here Rory shot 62, so you don't really know with these guys.   If I keep playing the way I'm playing and keep making a few putts, I'm sure I'll be in the mix toward the end.   
   
 Q.   You sound pretty confident about your game.   
GEOFF OGILVY:   I like how I'm playing.   I've liked how I've been playing for quite a while.   I just haven't been making the putts.   I felt like I clicked with the putter and I felt a little bit better about it.   When I first came to the Bermuda greens, 10 or 15 years ago, when I first start putting on them it was a complete mystery to me, but I actually‑‑ it's probably my preferred surface now.   I really like putting on Bermuda, and they've gone to them now here and I kind of like the surface and I like the way it feels, so I'm feeling decent about it.   We'll see.   Golf is a funny game.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, Geoff.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT