THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2013
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  (Inaudible).
GEOFF OGILVY:  You still have to be careful with uphill
putting.  You're used to hitting uphill putts quite firmly on
links.  And you have to make sure you don't.  It's more different
than ridiculous.  It's a reprogram-the-brain thing.
Q.  Was it different from the practice rounds?
GEOFF OGILVY:  No, they looked like they could be this
way.  So they are different from the practice rounds, but just the
normal Wednesday to Thursday progression.
Q.  The R&A were speaking about it earlier, even though some
have shot good rounds, do you think they're aiming to do something
over the night?
GEOFF OGILVY:  That's the conundrum, for our side of the
draw, it would be disappointing if tomorrow afternoon's players
didn't see what we saw.
It would be disappointing.  You just want it the same.
As I said, it's not that crazy.  It's just not what we're used to
on a links.  You don't want to see one pin get silly.  There was
nothing silly there, it was just really fast.  So hopefully it's
the same tomorrow as it was today.
Q.  Some of the guys were saying some of the pins are a bit
nasty?
GEOFF OGILVY:  I hit 3-wood, 3-iron -- well, the second
shot was the best shot I had all day.  And I had 12 feet, and I
couldn't go for it.  If I did I was going to have a ten-foot
par-putt.  You can see how much it breaks; it breaks a lot.
Normally on links when they're at nine or ten, that's fine.
8 doesn't look as tricky as it is.  Harris hit a putt in
the group that basically stopped next to the hole.  It didn't
really stop until six feet past.  It just never stopped.  It's
tricky, as I said, more of a reprogramming for us, because we
don't see this very often out here.
Q.  You said after tomorrow (inaudible).
GEOFF OGILVY:  It's not horrible, if there's a little bit
of color in the green tomorrow morning, we can hit a few good
shots.  Hopefully I can make some birdies.  There's a few red
numbers, I think most of them were early.  I don't think two or
three or 4-under tomorrow.  You're not going to have to be many
under par on Sunday to win.  It makes it more difficult when you
go a few over on the first day, but you're not out of it.

 
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT