THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 1, 2013
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Nice birdie on 18, but tell us about the front nine, you ran off three birdies on 7, 8 and 9;   5‑under for your round making the turn.  
GEOFF OGILVY:   Yeah, that's a pretty good way to start I guess around here.   You kind of want to make a score on the front nine here, you have got a short par 5 and you've some birdie holes.   You've got some tough ones, but I drove it on the fairway and gave myself chances and made a couple of putts, which is the first time this year I've made a few putts, so it was nice.  
   
 Q.   Got to play it up yesterday, down today; how different was it out there?  
GEOFF OGILVY:   It's a little different.   It's always nice to have the ball in your hand and there's a little bit of mud gathering on the ball every now and then but I didn't have any adversely affected the shot.   I'm sure there will be a couple of guys complaining about it.   But golf is meant to be played down.   I mean, it's nice when you play the ball up, but we are used to playing the ball down.  
   
 Q.   6‑under heading to the weekend, and I was looking at your record this year, you've had some missed cuts.   Where is your game right now and how confident are you?   
GEOFF OGILVY:   Pretty good.   I didn't play as bad as my results.   I putted really poorly and when you start putting poorly on those greens out on the West Coast, you don't really get your confidence back when you're out there.   I was hitting the ball nicely and just not holing any putts.   One bad week turned into two and three, and it all goes very fast when you start struggling on the golf course.   
So I've always been happy when I got here to Florida, even though live on the West Coast, when I come over here, I usually play pretty well my first few weeks over here.   Nice to get on some different greens and roll a few putts on the ground and happy with my first two rounds really.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT