THE PRESIDENTS CUP
November 20, 2011
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Obviously you knew you needed a point and you got it for the International side. 
 GEOFF OGILVY: I did. It's hard to play someone like Bill because you like him so much and he's one of the nicest guys in the world. Really, match play is a lot easier when you don't like the guy you're playing. So that was hard. 
 But in Melbourne, this has been a big week for us, the Australians. Royal Melbourne, we are very proud of this place and it showed every different aspect of why she's a great golf course this week. It's been fun to play. 
 I played really nicely. It's fun to hit a few good shots and hole a few good putts, hit two great shots at the last. It's fun to finish off my singles match, but it does appear like the team is going to fall a bit short, which is a shame, because we've had a lot of fun and it's been a really great week for us. But fun to win the singles match but congratulations to the U.S. if they do end up winning this. 

 Q. You had three putts to win the match and only about 12 feet to go, are you surprised he didn't concede?
 GEOFF OGILVY: That's the kind of guy Bill is; he wanted me to hole it in front of the crowd and get the crowd fired up. He was giving me that chance to make them jump out of their seats I think. That's the kind of guy he is. When you know you have three putts, it's hard to line up properly. You know you want to finish and get to your teammates, which is what this is all about. 
 Good day for me and looks likes we are holding our own pretty well in the singles but looks like those foursomes are going to hurt us. 

 Q. What was it like playing here --
 GEOFF OGILVY: Just fun. Maybe an over-used word, but I can't imagine a better scenario for a golfer to play on a team on your favorite golf course in your favorite city where you grew up. It's why I play golf, stuff like this. I mean, match play is one of my favorite formats. Team golf obviously is a rare one, but a treat when we get to do it. The fact that we get to showcase a golf course that I'm quite proud of, because I come from here and I know all Australians are proud of Royal Melbourne, and she showed every element that she can show in four days which is very appropriate for Melbourne, as well. 
 Everything about it, it's been a fantastic week. Unfortunately the result will put a slight damper on it, but to this point it's been just nothing but great fun. 

 Q. Is there any added pressure coming home to play versus if you were going to play in Canada or Harding Park or anything like that?
 GEOFF OGILVY: Yes and no. There's pressure, but you also -- we know this is a hard golf course to learn. It takes a long time, as people said on Friday. It's a pretty tough place to be on a day like that. I guess the Australians who have played here before and the guys on our team who have played here before knew if we got days like that, we should have had an advantage. So I guess there's an added pressure, but that's probably because you feel like you should perform quite well around here. So I was quite confident if I came in with any sort of game that I could at least hold my own around here. 
 I wouldn't call it more pressure. I wouldn't call it more pressure, no. 

 Q. Were you surprised a little how well the Americans played on this golf course, because of what you were just saying about that; that it's a hard course to learn? 
 GEOFF OGILVY: A little bit. There might be in Royal Melbourne veterans on our team who have never seen a day like Friday. That was proper -- that was Royal Melbourne at her best. They did very well. It's hard for everyone there. I think over 72 holes of stroke play, the Royal Melbourne veterans will probably start showing their colors over a long period of time. 
 The Americans are very good players and very adaptable these days. We play lots of different sorts of courses. They adapted very quickly. Freddie obviously had some sage advice, because he played here a long time, and John Cook and Jay Haas. Phil was here last time and Tiger had been here. 
 So they have got some pretty wise heads on their team that obviously they came out here with the right mentality on a couple of those really tough days, Friday, Saturday, and did really well on a place that really does take experience. 

 Q. Were you tracking the other groups or just your game? 
 GEOFF OGILVY: We are looking. Sometimes at these things -- they haven't had it this year, sometimes they say, Internationals up in seven, and that board isn't there. I watched the video replays of guys holing.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT