THE PRESIDENTS CUP
November 19, 2011
K.J. Choi
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. After a tough morning session for the Internationals, you were able to bounce back; how are you impressed that you were able to bounce back after a difficult morning?   
 GEOFF OGILVY: It was good. This morning was disappointing obviously. We were hoping to do a 3-2 our way or 4-1, balance it up a little bit but it didn't go our way.   
 So we had to bounce back this afternoon and have a good day, and we've done that. We are going to still need a really big day tomorrow but we are still in with a chance.  
  
  Q. Talk about tomorrow, it's single competition, historically the Americans have been very good in singles competition. Are you looking forward to the opportunity to change that?   
 K.J. CHOI: Yeah, you know, the last two times in the single match, they always win. And I'm starting this week, in foursome, fourball, maybe one point or one point a halve, so three points and very exciting this week.   
 Today is up-and-down, and with the weather, and so we have to stay calm and patient and did a good job making birdies. On the back nine, we were putting very well and we came in with the win today.  
  
  Q. You had the most experience on this golf course. Seems like each session has presented different weather conditions, obviously changing this golf course, as well. Has it been difficult to adapt to the changing conditions and change in course?   
 GEOFF OGILVY: Well, the last to days, I mean, it's perfect Melbourne, really. We had a nice day and then we had a big northerly, really, really kind of hard day and then a really hard day with the wind switching in the middle of the day and rain in the afternoon.   
 So you have four seasons in the last three days. Typical of what happens in Melbourne, difficult to adjust on this golf course, guys went from a driver 9-iron to a driver, wood for most guys. That's a pretty incredible swing in 24 hours. It's difficult for everyone to adapt. The U.S. looks like they adapted better this morning and we adapted better this afternoon and hopefully we can get it worked out tomorrow afternoon.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT