THE PRESIDENTS CUP
November 16, 2011
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Geoff, obviously you're paired with Charl, looking forward to that against Bill and Nick? Have you played with Charl before?   
 GEOFF OGILVY: No, not as like a partner. I'm pretty excited. He's obviously one of the best players in the world at the moment. He's obviously won the Masters this year and he played really well -- he's played really well recently. He's been up there in everything he's played. So great to start playing with an in-form player. He hits the ball well and does everything well and he's going to be fun to play with in that respect.   
 Watney and Haas, they are two great players. Watney is truly one of the best players in America right now and Haas just won the FedExCup. I played with him last week and they are both amazing ball-strikers, hit it really long and potentially could go very low. Looks like a pretty tight match and maybe one of their best teams -- well, two guys that play very well and similar and both hit it long and straight, and they are both players who have had great years.   
  
  Q. They are both rookies, but Charl is a rookie, too, and winning at Augusta National, which has a lot of similarities to Royal Melbourne --  
 GEOFF OGILVY: Charl is a very worldwide experienced guy to never have played The Presidents Cup before. He's won the South African Money List a bunch of times and he's won the Masters and he's won the Million Dollar event in South Africa and played around the world for a long time, so he's a pretty accomplished player.   
 He's been a great player for a long time so it's surprising it's his first one. He's played unbelievably great since the last Presidents Cup and he's won a bunch of tournaments. He wins the big tournaments.   
And Nick won a World Golf Championships this year and he won the AT&T there in the middle of the year, which is one of the big tournaments, so he wins big tournaments; and Bill Haas, he won the right tournament at the right time, the FedExCup and THE TOUR Championship, one of the best fields, and so it's going to be a hard one to win. But as I said, I have a good partner.  
  
  Q. You're the first Australian out on the course, so being a home-town guy, that going to be a big buzz for you.   
 GEOFF OGILVY: These tournaments have an amazing setting every single time, the first tee, the atmosphere. The first hole is going to be pretty special and hopefully the first few groups -- there's a lot of crowd momentum you can build in these things and the first few matches gets the crowd early. Often the matches that follow do well, and so hopefully the first couple of matches can fire the crowd up and do a few good things and get it going so the guys on the first few holes can hear that ahead of them.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT