BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 17, 2011
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. A lot on your mind right now, you're right on the FedExCup bubble, but you're also struggling with the whole Presidents Cup thing. Which is the bigger deal?
 GEOFF OGILVY: I think The Presidents Cup surely has to be a bigger deal. Those team events are pretty special to play in, and it happens to be not only my home golf course but a golf course that I grew up right next door, and I've actually got a house that backs up onto the course.

 Q. So it's literally in your backyard?
 GEOFF OGILVY: It really is. It's a pretty special place. Royal Melbourne, I grew up right next door, and it would be a big deal to play The Presidents Cup there.

 Q. How much pressure do you feel this week? 
 GEOFF OGILVY: Well, I'm trying not to think about anything other than just play good golf, but it creeps into your mind every now and then. As I said, The Presidents Cup is a pretty big deal. I would love to play Atlanta. It's much more fun to play Atlanta than not play there, so I need to have a third on its own or maybe a two-way tie for third to get into Atlanta. After three rounds I'm in reasonable shape. If I have a good round tomorrow, I'll get both goals achieved. 

 Q. You're trying to win a golf tournament, you're trying to qualify for Atlanta, you're trying to make The Presidents Cup?
 GEOFF OGILVY: Yeah, I guess it's a bit more complicated than a normal tournament. It's been a bit of a rough summer, so it's all having to come down to me having to play really, really well here to make Atlanta, to play pretty well here to make The Presidents Cup, and obviously I'd love to win the golf tournament. I'd be right back in the thick of things in the FedExCup.

 Q. You've been very consistent with your putter. You've had 25 putts in the first three rounds. 
 GEOFF OGILVY: It's probably the lowest amount of putts I've ever had for three rounds. I haven't really holed any bombs, I've just been missing a lot of greens just off the edge and been chipping pretty well and my bunker play has been pretty good. So holing everything inside ten feet really, which whenever you look at when guys are doing well in a tournament, that's what they're doing.

 Q. When you say it's been a strange three months, it's been a strange year all the way back to Kapalua with the strange injury?
 GEOFF OGILVY: Yeah, that was a bit weird. I mean, cutting your finger at the beach isn't really in your plans when you get to Kapalua. I felt really good about my game there. I thought I was going to be a really good year, but I kind of had that setback and then had a bit of a shoulder injury later on. So it's been maybe a year to forget but maybe a year that can finish really strong and get on to having a good one next year.

 Q. With all the stuff going on I get the impression that the Presidents Cup is first and foremost on your mind. 
 GEOFF OGILVY: I think it has to be. Those team events are probably the funnest things that we get to do. We don't get to do it very often. The U.S. guys maybe get it every year, but we only get it every second year, and the fact that it's in Australia -- I think all the Australians have been looking forward to this event since it's been announced that it's going to be in Australia. 

 Q. I want to ask you about the putt on 11. It looked like a 25-footer. That got you going, didn't it?
 GEOFF OGILVY: I guess. I wouldn't have been annoyed if I missed it. A 25-footer, that's a real bonus. Yeah, it was nice. I knew it was hard. I wasn't really going down there thinking if I can get to 11-under I'll be in good shape, so it's a pretty good finish the last nine holes to have four birdies.

 Q. What were you thinking going down 11?
 GEOFF OGILVY: Just keep trying to hit good shots and maybe sneak a few on the way in maybe. Justin is playing really well, but it's very -- it's a pretty tricky golf course. If you hit good shots, there's birdies there as people are showing, but as soon as you get it off track you're in a bit of trouble. I just wanted to get to this point with a chance tomorrow, really. 

 Q. You were looking a little puny there on the second hole. That's American for not good. 
 GEOFF OGILVY: Well, I've got a cold this week, and my stomach has been a work in progress for three months. It's not perfect. But I've got a bit of a cold. I got it on the way over here or something, kind of a plugged nose, coughing a little bit. 

 Q. The stomach thing never really got entirely resolved?
 GEOFF OGILVY: It's better than it was, but not entirely --

 Q. Do they know what it was, a parasite or something?
 GEOFF OGILVY: Could have been a parasite. There was never any definitive diagnosis. I took a lot of antibiotics quite a few times, and that can do a number on your system. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT