BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 16, 2011
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You were under pressure in Boston, you rose to that pressure, under pressure here. We think you're beginning to enjoy it. 
 GEOFF OGILVY: Well, I'm playing a little better than I was before. I enjoy Boston as a golf tournament. I've always kind of played well there. Here I've been kind of hit and miss. I've had some good runs here and some bad runs. It's nice that my game is coming around. It was a bit off this summer, so nice to be in this golf tournament. 
 Those guys up on the top of the leaderboard are playing really well to shoot that score because it's not that easy out there, so hopefully I can have a couple more good ones and be right there at the end.

 Q. You talked to us about how you were so aware of things on the 18th in Boston. Are you beginning to feel that here, as well, when you look to the boards and you know exactly where you stand birdie by birdie?
 GEOFF OGILVY: A little bit. I mean, I need such a good finish. It's going to be fairly obvious. Apparently I have to finish third or better, so there's no real secret to anything. I've just got to finish third or better. So I'm not really worrying myself too much about it, I'm just trying to play as well as I can, and if I can put myself in position to do that, it would be a pretty exciting way to make the TOUR Championship, I think.

 Q. Having said that, is there some way you play different when the pressure is on like that, just go out and be as aggressive as you can?
 GEOFF OGILVY: Yes and no. I mean, it's cliché, but we're all just trying to play as well as we can every week. I guess there's situations you might not take as much on sometimes, but really, when you have to finish -- third is almost like winning, you know what I mean? You've got to play well enough to finish third. I'm just trying to play as well as I can and make as many putts as I can, and hopefully it's good enough. 

 Q. You have to be happy with your scores so far. 
 GEOFF OGILVY: Yeah, I think 5-under is pretty good. Those guys up on top of the leaderboard are probably -- it's underappreciated how well they're playing. Those are some really good scores they're shooting around here. It's not an easy course. I'm pretty happy with the score I've shot so far. 5-under, I think if I did that two more times I don't think I'd be too far away at the end. Happy with the progress so far, but got to keep playing well.

 Q. Obviously you know what you have to do to play into next week, top-three finish. Is that something you actually think about, or are you just going out there and teeing it up and hopefully playing better each day?
 GEOFF OGILVY: I'm not really thinking about it that much. I haven't resigned myself to the fact I'm not going to be playing in Atlanta, but the reality is it was always going to be a long shot for me to get in there starting this week. I'm just trying to play well, hopefully play really well, win a golf tournament, and that would take care of a lot of things, but I'm just trying to have a good tournament.

 Q. But you're top 10 right now, so that's still a realistic possibility. 
 GEOFF OGILVY: Yeah, I'm not out of it. I could have been out of it after two rounds, so I'm still there. As I said, if I have a couple more rounds like that, I don't think I'll be too far away. It would be quite fun actually if I get there the last nine holes and I've got to play a nice nine holes to make it to Atlanta. That would be quite a fun situation, I think.

 Q. A lot has been written about not only you getting to Atlanta with a top-three finish but also the International Team, The Presidents Cup. Is that in the back of your mind at all, or are you just playing?
 GEOFF OGILVY: Well, it's probably more important to me than the TOUR Championship, no offense to the TOUR Championship. But yeah, I'm in the last automatic spot to go in this week, and it ends on Sunday. Hopefully I can have a decent week and hold my spot or even move up a little bit to really solidify my place on the team, and that's something we all look forward to every couple of years, and especially the fact that it's in Australia, I think it's an extra special one for the Australians. It's definitely something I'm not planning on missing.

 Q. And you're playing better, there's no question about it. Kind of an up-and-down year, but I think right now you're starting to put it together. 
 GEOFF OGILVY: I am, I'm playing a bit better. It's been a weird year with some injuries and nothing really went right for me for most of the year, so it's nice to start playing a bit better again. It's towards the end unfortunately, but whether I play next week or not, I'm going to have a few weeks off after that, play a little bit overseas leading up to the Presidents Cup and hopefully come out next year and be injury free and healthy all year and have a great year next year. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT