DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 4, 2011
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. 66, nice playing. Comments?   
 GEOFF OGILVY: Yeah, it was pretty good. It could have been better probably. When you're 3-under after 4 you kind of feel like you have a chance at a really low one. I needed to have something under par today to give myself a chance to have a decent finish here. That's probably what I had to do. Not enough to really -- I might be happy. It depends what they do. I'm going to need a low one tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Did the wind pick up by the time you finished?   
 GEOFF OGILVY: It was quite windy all day to be honest with you. Yesterday was similar, too. It was pretty windy early. I'm not saying super windy early. It's picking up a little bit.   
  
  Q. You see guys walking off with 63, Mickelson --  
 GEOFF OGILVY: What did he putt with?   
  
  Q. The belly. Is that a tribute to the golf course at all that it lets you -- a lot of scorable holes, I guess.   
 GEOFF OGILVY: It's a tribute to the golf course every single year the leaderboard has the cream of the TOUR on top of it. I don't think the scores are relevant. I think the people up there are the relevant thing. Every single year it's exactly the same thing. The best players on TOUR play well here: Adam, Tiger, Vijay, Phil.   
 I mean, I know you've got strong players in the field, but I think it's a measure who gets up at the top, not what scores. That's my measure anyway.  
  
  Q. How do you approach tomorrow?  
 GEOFF OGILVY: Just try to play well probably. There's too many different scenarios. I don't know really. I'd like to have a good enough one to guarantee Atlanta, guarantee Presidents Cup, win the tournament. I just want to keep playing. If I have a half decent round tomorrow, I'm sure I'll get to Chicago. Then I've got to find some way to have four decent rounds around there. Just trying to play well.  
  
  Q. Do you look at leaderboards differently than you do other times of the year when you're in a spot like this?  
 GEOFF OGILVY: I look at it with interest, more as a -- if I finish there, I'm going to finish there in the FedExCup, rather than, oh, I've got to get -- it's like, oh, well, I'm going to move up that many spots. More interested to see what the fluctuation is going to be rather than concerned about what it's going to be. Does that make sense?   
 The scoreboards get more interesting when they show more stuff on them. If he holes this putt he moves to this spot in the FedExCup. Not mine, you only see your playing partner. You don't see yours when you're putting. The tournament is better when they do that. People like to see that, don't they? They should do that on TV, that sort of stuff, shouldn't they? Or maybe they do, I don't watch enough. When a guy is 30th, he holes this putt, he finishes 17th in the FedExCup. Good, huh?   
  
  Q. McDowell made the point he knew walking to 18 tee he was 84th. He eagled 18 and he --  
 GEOFF OGILVY: It's good that it's got the real-time spot, you know what I mean? Kind of like a running race, you can almost get a feel for where everyone is at. It gets so bunched up with so many players playing well, and then you can go from 55th to 20th with one birdie and then back, 60th with a bogey.  
  
  Q. Have you ever seen those boards when you're standing over a 125-yard shot that says Geoff Ogilvy is ranked 86th on TOUR in shots of this length?  
 GEOFF OGILVY: I see it but not about me because it always pops up when you hit. I see it about my playing partners all the time. You see all that. That's good, I think.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT