MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2011
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q. Five straight birdies; talk about that. 
 GEOFF OGILVY: I don't know. I've been playing quite well all week but I was kind of just treading water on the front nine watching the Tiger show to be honest with you because it was quite fun to just listen to the roars of what he was doing on the front nine because usually you get him on the back. So it was kind of fun to watch him do that. Finally got a birdie on 12 and I got under par for the day, and I figure, at least you get a couple eagle chances and a birdie pin on 14 and 16, so I didn't expect to birdie five in a row, but that's what happened. It's nice to finish the week with my best nine holes.

 Q. Were you working on something last night? You went straight to the range. Whatever you were working on, did it pay off this afternoon?
 GEOFF OGILVY: Working on it is more about getting rid of my bad memories of the last shot I hit yesterday out of the bunker. I wasn't very happy with that, and it's nice to go hit a few solid shots straight away to get rid of that. That's really all I was doing. And the sun was going down; I didn't want to run out of light. 
 Yeah, as I said, I knew I was playing all week. I kind of had a frustrating -- really frustrating day yesterday. I felt like I left a lot out there, so it was nice to finally make a few putts on the back nine and make a few birdies in a row.

 Q. If either you or Adam can pull this off, what would it mean to Australia?
 GEOFF OGILVY: That would be pretty exciting. It's a big -- it's been a big deal for Australia, I guess. Especially since Greg was getting close so many times, it became a big thing for Australia, and I promise you there's millions of people awake at the moment watching this. They're pretty excited.

 Q. What will you do now?
 GEOFF OGILVY: I'll chill out just for a little bit, and if it appears like I might have to hit some shots, I'll go run over to the range and just get moving a little bit.

 Q. How cognizant were you of the leaderboard as you started to go on your run? 
 GEOFF OGILVY: Well, I mean, I was an interested spectator, as I said, of the Tiger show on the front nine because he was the group in front and you hear all the noises, and oh, wow, he shot 5-under on the front nine; I wish I had done that kind of thing. 
 And then as I went down -- when I birdied 12, well, that's a bonus. You've got a couple eagles coming up with the next few holes possibly. You never know what's possible around here, you've seen it done before. So hit good shots and try and get aggressive and get around the corner on 13 and see what happens. And I didn't actually hit great tee shots on 13 or 15, but I managed to make birdie on both and snuck a bonus on 14 and 16, and here we are. 

 Q. The recognition of I'm in the thick, when was that?
 GEOFF OGILVY: 16. I birdied 15, and I thought, well, I'm right in this now because 16 is a birdie pin. And then I hit the shot you've been watching guys hit for years on 16, which is fun. Birdied that, and played the last two holes pretty solid, except I had to get up-and-down a couple of times, but that's -- nice to have a week I didn't have to rely on the short game to come up with it. It was good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT