MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 7, 2011
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Do you have any complaints about the day?
 GEOFF OGILVY: Not really, no. Pretty happy how I played. I felt like I hit a lot of greens. I don't know what it was. But the only bogey was a three-putt on 6, which is doable from the bottom of that hill. I mean, but the rest of it was pretty tidy, and then if I would have had a really crazy putting day I could have gone pretty low. But it's a pretty fair score.

 Q. Pretty much what you said you wanted, greens, fairways?
 GEOFF OGILVY: Just try to hit good shots. I haven't played this -- I haven't been lucky enough to play this course similar to this very often, being treated like this. The pins aren't savage, the weather is perfect. It got a little hard there for a little bit, but really, I haven't -- I'm not sure any of my Masters so far have had a day like this from start to finish. So it was fun. It was enjoyable. It was nice to play well, and it wasn't -- it doesn't get tricky through there Amen Corner when it's not blowing and you hit some decent shots.

 Q. Is this the best you've felt after day one maybe?
 GEOFF OGILVY: Yeah, I shot 7-under the first round the first time I played here, I think, but -- which was very satisfying because it was my very first round in the tournament. But yeah, I like how I played. Obviously there's a few guys here had a few lower, but if I had three more of those I'd probably be looking -- I don't know, it was all right.

 Q. Rory just about finished before you headed out. It's an odd question, but nothing like seeing a 65 posted before you --
 GEOFF OGILVY: It's a fair -- it seemed like that was probably going to happen, to me. No, I hadn't seen the pins or the tees or anything like that before I got out there, but on a day like this someone always manages to do that. On hard days someone does that. Rory has a habit of going low at majors in the first round. I expected someone to shoot a score like that out here.

 Q. Would you expect the conditions to get tougher as the week goes on? There's no rain in the forecast. 
 GEOFF OGILVY: Usually it does. We're probably not going to get a day with as little wind. There was only a little bit of a breeze there for a little while, but not really. A little bit. We played in a little bit. But most days, even nice days around here, get a little bit blustery, don't they. 
 I'm sure it'll get tougher and the greens will get faster, and I think they like to see people get red here and then they -- I think the setup is not predetermined, it's fluid depending on the weather and how the scores are going, but I think they will keep the scoring the scores that they want to see shot most of the time, I think, around here. If they think we went too low tomorrow, they might get tougher tomorrow.

 Q. (Question on high-profile pairing) 
 GEOFF OGILVY: I mean, this is unbelievable. There's no circus at the Masters. We are very insulated out there. It's tranquil out there, if anything. I mean, Bothy was probably there, but Medinah in that PGA, you were probably there with Tiger and Phil in 2006, I mean that was madness because in the PGA and an Open, those tournaments anyone is inside the ropes. These guys, they run around with arm bands, I think, photographers and writers. There must have been 250 people inside the ropes. Here there was six, three players and three caddies, and it's really enjoyable. There's no part of this golf course generally that there isn't any crowd on at any part of the day. So to play in a big crazy group here, you're as insulated as you can get if that makes any sense.

 Q. Just finally, you shot your score without birdieing 15. Were you starting to get a little -- it looked like you were patient, but was it difficult?
 GEOFF OGILVY: I mean, my shot on 15 was two yards from being next to Phil's ball and an easy two-putt and in a spot where I could easily have hit that shot in the water, so that was kind of something I had to be semi-conservative with. It's the sort of thing I had a 12-footer -- I hit it in the pine straw which is not great. It's nice if you can birdie all the par-5s generally. 

 Q. And your club on 16?
 GEOFF OGILVY: 8-iron. I mean, that's the green-light pin. I imagine there was a lot of birdies there today. I mean, you hit it out to the slightly right somewhere within a yard to five yards right of the pin and hope it lands on the right distance really. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT