THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
September 24, 2010
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   LAURA HILL: Geoff, thanks for coming in. You said yesterday you felt like you were going to play well again. Take us through your round.   
 GEOFF OGILVY: Yeah, probably wasn't quite as stress free today as it was yesterday. It was a lit more up-and-down. I hit a few loose tee shots today, but I hit a lot of really good shots and putting pretty well at the moment, so it all added up to 3-under. I mean, it's obviously playing very difficult, but when you play with a guy who shoots 66 yesterday or 67 yesterday and the guy I played with today has 66, it doesn't seem as hard when you're playing with guys who are playing well, as well.   
 I can definitely tell a lot of guys are struggling. If you hit it in the rough, it's really hard to hit it on the green, and the greens are tough if you're putting from above the hole. I'm pretty content with the way I've played for the first two days.   
  
  Q. What's the over-under on the time you're getting to bed tonight?  
 GEOFF OGILVY: Well, I'll get into bed. The time I get to sleep -- I'm going to watch it in my room. I'm not going to go out. A few guys last year went out and watched it. I don't think that's very smart. The game starts about 12:30, it'll finish about 3:00. I mean, it would be nice if there wasn't an Irish football game tomorrow and we could have this tee time again, but it'll be 10 past 11:00 or something when I play, so I'll get a bit of sleep. It's less than ideal but I'm not going to miss watching this game.  
  
  Q. Give us what it means to you with St. Kilda having a chance?  
 GEOFF OGILVY: It would be unbelievable. St. Kilda is the hard-luck club of the league almost. It's won one premiership in 140 years. They've been very-- the 10 best ten years they've been one of the best teams for sure, and they just haven't been able to get over the line. This would be -- there's a lot of people that will be crying when they walk out of the MCG if they win. I mean, there's a lot of people who have lived their whole life and not seen St. Kilda win a premiership. It would be pretty huge.  
 Collingwood is like the best team to beat in the premiership and it would be the worst team to lose to. Everyone who's a Collingwood fan will be wanting Collingwood to win. Every other person in Melbourne will want St. Kilda to win. There is no one who doesn't support Collingwood who can stand them. There will be 100,000 people there. It will be a good game. I've been going there since I was about nine or ten years old. Any game they've played in Melbourne, I've gone since I was 10, so 23 years. But it's a long time coming if it happens. But they're not favored, they're slight underdogs, but anything can happen in a grand final.  
  
  Q. Staying on that topic, last year you were in the same situation, and they lost but you played really well the next day. Was that sort of in anger or just coincidence?  
 GEOFF OGILVY: It was a pretty depressing game last year. I mean, it was an epic match, low-scoring, anyone could win up to the last ten seconds kind of thing, like everyone who was watching would have been on the edge of the seat. Even if you didn't care who won, it was an edge of the seat kind of match. I don't know if you watched it or not.   
 Yeah, after about two hours of sleep, I had, what, 7-under maybe, 63, 64? But I was probably 30th after two rounds. I came out here not even really -- just trying to get to the end, play two more rounds, and you make a few birdies early and all of a sudden you get back in the tournament. It's one of those things. I think you can play golf on no sleep if you haven't been drinking. (Laughter.) Drinking is what makes it hard when you get no sleep. You couldn't do it every night, you'd get tired, but we're all semi-athletes. I mean, three or four hours, you can play golf off three or four hours of sleep.   
  
  Q. Sum up your form so far, and can you win this? You're not in a bad position?  
 GEOFF OGILVY: I think I can win this. I'm pretty happy with my form. I hit some shots that I didn't like today but I hit quite a lot of good ones that I did like. I'm putting well, and whenever you putt well you can win golf tournaments. I came here knowing I was playing quite well.   
 I started playing pretty well in Boston, so it was a bonus that I just got to. I got to this tournament because I probably didn't play well enough during the year to really warrant being in this position. But I had a good tournament in Boston, so that gets me here. So now I'd love to win the golf tournament. Yeah, I feel like I can win.  
  
  Q. Your year started really well on a really high upbeat note. What's gone on in between and how important is it to really finish strong this year?  
 GEOFF OGILVY: It would be nice to finish strong. I just played a bit of golf, too much golf in last year's off-season, and it was just trying to get over it during the year, which I never really got on top of it.   
 And once you get into April, you don't really get a chance to take a break for us. You just have to keep playing and see out the year, which maybe I should have taKIN a couple of tournaments that I didn't want to play off in the middle of the year and just got my head back on or just had a break.   
 It would be nice to finish well. I've got six weeks off after this, so it's always nice to go into a break after a good tournament. But I won't lose any sleep over it if I don't.   
 I might lose some sleep if Collingwood wins the flag.   
 I'm just happy I'm playing well again and looking forward to when I come back after six weeks and looking forward to next year and hoping I can keep playing like this.  
  
  Q. You had mentioned in spurts you thought you're playing better than the numbers would indicate. You hit a couple shots today I think on 6 and 7 that ended up being birdies that could have been others. Is that maybe turning around for you a little bit?  
 GEOFF OGILVY: Things like that --  
  
  Q. Those approach shots, I mean.   
 GEOFF OGILVY: I know. I mean, it always looked dry to me on 6, but it could always trickle down into the rough.   
 And 7, what a horrible shot, but it actually ended up pretty good.   
 When you're playing badly it does trickle -- when it's not going well, it trickles down in the rough. It's all timing. You can hit just as many shots as the guy that's leading the tournament, but you hit the wrong shot at the wrong time, and you hit one in the water our out of bounds or you plug one in the bunker, it's not like you've got no control over it. But it seems like when you're struggling, you just do things at the wrong time, miss the wrong putt or you just hit the wrong drive at the wrong time. It's a pretty fine line between -- I mean, there's tournaments out here where the cut is 2-under par and 8-under is leading the tournament. That's a pretty fine line.   
 I mean, if you have a couple of bad breaks at the wrong time, you go home scratching your head on Friday going, I'm not playing that bad and I just missed the cut. There's just a patch of stuff like that.   
 I think when you start playing well, good things start happening, so maybe it's just, play better.   
  
  Q. Just to put you on the spot, if you could only have one thing this weeKINd, a St. Kilda win or a win in the tournament, what would you take?   
 GEOFF OGILVY: That's not really a fair question. I don't know. That's not a fair question. I'm going to answer that question. (Laughter.)  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT