WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 19, 2017
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Geoff, let's talk about 70, 66, 66.  Ten birdies in your last 25 holes.  Moved inside the Top 120.  You've turned it on when you needed to.?
GEOFF OGILVY: Yeah.  Today was pretty good.  Obviously the finish yesterday was pretty nice.  It was nice to know I could hit the proper shots when I needed to hit the proper shots.  That's kind of like half the battle of golf, I guess, is finding out if it's still there when it needs to be, and it was, especially I really needed it yesterday.
I played well.  I probably had a chance to be a little bit better.  I was 3-under after 5.  It's tricky, this course.  It's getable, lot of birdies out there.  As soon as you miss, really tough.  Greens are fast.  You're above the hole, you got to get really defensive when you're above the hole because it's tricky.  You can look silly quick, like 18.
So, yeah, all in all, last two days have been much better than Thursday and I am probably too far back to consider winning the tournament but I'm far enough up to probably consider having a Top-10 or something with a really good round tomorrow and I don't know what I need for Top 125 but that's obviously -- got other people have stuff to say about that.  If I finish Top 25-ish, it will be all right.
Keep playing like I'm playing.  I didn't make everything today but I hit some nice putts and a few went in.  Do that again tomorrow and I should be heading to New York, hopefully.
Q. Kind of like the stock market, up and down.
On the scoreboard tomorrow every hole they'll tell you where you are.  Are you going to be looking at the scoreboard?  Is that in the thought process or go and play tomorrow?
GEOFF OGILVY: I'll go out and play.  They put them in a spot where it's hard to ignore them.  Usually to be fair they put the player who is hitting the shot up so when you're hitting a shot you're not looking at the scoreboard.
As soon as I start looking at the scoreboard it's usually your playing partner's on the board.  Does that sense?  I'm sure I'll be pretty aware of whether it's really good, whether I'm right on the line or whether I'm out of the mix.  Does that make sense?
I won't really be watching.  I kind of figure things like this is whatever is going to happen is going to happen.  Thinking about it is not going to make me play any better.
Go out, try to have a really low score, try to get up there in the Top 10, even higher with a really low one and add them up at the end and see what happens.
Q. Lastly, though, your iron play is really good.  I think your putting has been really good, as least what I've seen the last day and a half.
GEOFF OGILVY: It has.  My iron play has been great for awhile.  It's been getting better and better.  I really like kind of the direction my golf swing is going.  I'm hitting some really good shots and giving myself a lot of chances.
Again, if I can drive it up the fairway like mostly I've been doing this week, I should have quite a few chances for birdies.  They all go in, it will be wonderful.
Golf is a funny game like that.  I'll just do what I did today, try to play a nice round of golf and finish, we'll add them up and see how it finishes.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT