THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
September 23, 2010
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   LAURA HILL: We'd like to welcome Geoff Ogilvy. Thanks for coming in. A nice 4-under 66 which you shot out there in some pretty tough conditions. You have to be pleased with that. 
 GEOFF OGILVY: I'm pretty happy with that. As I said, I think I just played nicely. Nothing was amazing but nothing was really badly. I think it does look like I missed a few fairways, but I don't think I was in the rough very much. I was in the semi-rough a few times. Hit a lot of greens, I think. And when I had short putts, I made them for birdie. Never really in too much trouble. I made a big mess of the 15th hole, but apart from that it was sort of pretty good. 

 Q. When the hot streaks come for you, are there any precursors or signs or do you just roll out of bed some day and start shooting 68?
 GEOFF OGILVY: Yeah, well, I think I can tell sometimes. I mean, I thought I was playing -- most of the summer when I was playing poorly, I thought I should have been playing better, just wasn't holing any putts, and then your confidence goes away and you don't shoot the score you feel like you should get out of it. But sometimes I can tell when I'm about to start playing well. Intangibles, other things that I can't describe. But you can't come out and say, look, hey guys, I'm going to play well in the next few weeks, because it doesn't quite work like that. But I think I get a pretty good feel for when it's coming around, but I don't know why. 
 If I'm in a poor stretch, I'm not very good at, okay, if I just do this I'll come out of the poor stretch. I'm not very good at that, but I can tell when I'm coming out of it.

 Q. Are you coming out of it?
 GEOFF OGILVY: I think so. I played well in Boston and I felt like I really played well in Chicago. That golf course the way we played it this year in Chicago, it was very hard to feel like you were playing well. Every day I walked off I couldn't understand it. I felt like I hit good shots all day and I felt like I hit good putts all day, and when I missed shots I felt like I recovered well and I was shooting over par every day. It was just a course that was hard to -- it beat you up. But when I finished I looked back and I hit under par on Sunday. I thought actually I played quite well. If I had holed a couple putts on Thursday and Friday I would have been right there. 
 So Chicago was a continuation of how I played in Boston, I just didn't get much out of it. Today was the same, but I got something out of it. 

 Q. Is there any part of you that's at all a little surprised that you're here, given kind of the flat summer that you had and then you had that second place obviously last time out, jumped you way up and got you into the mix, and you got a chance of sort of sneaking in the side door and stealing $1.35 million?
 GEOFF OGILVY: Well, I guess traditionally the TOUR Championship the way it always was I don't think I should be here. That's the guy who plays well all year. I might have snuck in on money, but probably not. One of you guys probably knows if I'm in on money or not, I don't know. If I am, it would only be just. 
 When you finished top 30 at the end of the year usually you felt like that, and I don't feel like that this year. But that's the nature of these Playoffs. If you have a good week in the first three weeks, the top two or three, you get to come here. That's just the way it is, and I managed to do that. 
 I was 52nd going into New Jersey, and now I'm 12th. I was 9th, I think, leveling Boston. It's a good result for me to be here. It was nice to end the year like this. It was a pretty disappointing summer to say the least, so to finish on a little bit of a high note is going to be nice.

 Q. So is this your last of the year?
 GEOFF OGILVY: Last one in the U.S.

 Q. Bookends maybe?
 GEOFF OGILVY: Yeah, that would be nice. This is a bit like Kapalua and Sawgrass and here, they're kind of the TOUR's flagship events, so it would be pretty nice to -- they're definitely ones that you would like to cap off. 

 Q. Probably you don't spend a lot of time thinking about what happened over the course of the summer, but do you have any -- what happened? Were there certain things that just weren't clicking?
 GEOFF OGILVY: It was just a perfect storm. I was a bit over golf a little bit. I played too much probably last year in the off-season, didn't have too much of a break. 
 We had our third child in February, and anyone who's had multiple children knows that progressively it's exponential, the craziness that happens in your house each one you add to the family. So we had a third one. I found myself -- I didn't hole any putts, and you find yourself in that mindset of I'd rather just be at home with my family this week as opposed to being out here. 
 I think I was just a bit over golf until the end of last year. I think regardless of what was happening at home, I was due for a flat period, I think. It's quite good, I think, because it's going to teach me to have a real, real off-season and have a good break at some point during the year and recharge. 
 Instead of bouncing off the walls on the West Coast, I'm still ready and bouncing off the walls in June or July, I'll set the schedule like that. I'm probably going to get a lot out of this year, so it's going to be good.

 Q. Two questions: What did you do on 15? 
 GEOFF OGILVY: I just kind of half bladed the chip. It was a weird one. This Bermudagrass is really -- it can make you look silly really quick. And I had one of those ones that it just looked -- where you need to go right under it and hit it -- I'm trying to fly it 25 feet, and I couldn't have flown it five feet. It wasn't that bad a lie, it gets you a bit spooked sometimes. 
 I don't know if everyone would admit it, but Bermuda rough can get you a bit spooked when you're chipping out of it, and I didn't feel very good about it. I should have got the second one up-and-down. It was pretty simple. But you have little blackouts like that every now and then. 

 Q. Do you ever find yourself getting bored? 
 GEOFF OGILVY: Do I find myself getting bored? 

 Q. Not like right now, but --
 GEOFF OGILVY: I'm very bored usually when I come in here.

 Q. So are we. 
 GEOFF OGILVY: (Smiling). 

 Q. During the course of a summer, the kind of dole drums --
 GEOFF OGILVY: Not when I'm playing well. Yes, when I'm playing poorly. I'm not bored. I wouldn't say bored, but -- I mean, he get to St. Andrews and there's nothing boring about St. Andrews. I'm ready to go and fired up. If you could just extend a week off here -- when you have a really rough British Open like I did, you'd love to make that two weeks before Akron four weeks. 
 I wouldn't say bored, it's just more frustrated, frustrated, which makes you tired. I wouldn't say tired, just worn out, like mental fatigue. 

 Q. Understanding what you just said about trying to set yourself up well for next season, is there a part of you that says, man, this is it? I wish there were more events to play now that I'm playing well again?
 GEOFF OGILVY: Yes and no. I've got six weeks off after this week. I've been looking forward to this since about January. (Laughter.)
 I'm pretty happy I'm getting a break. Yes, I am playing well, and it would be nice if I had started playing like this in June, but I feel like I'm over a hump and I feel like I've learned a lot -- you probably learn more about your game when you have rough patches than when you have good patches. Everyone says that anyway, so I hope that's true. I'm looking forward to having a good break. We've got some pretty big events in Australia for us, and then excited about next year. 
 You know, we won't be having a baby -- going to be one of the first years for a while we won't be having a baby. We're getting pretty established and comfortable living in California. It's really nice. 
 I'm looking forward to next year. Presidents Cup right at Royal Melbourne in Melbourne. If they picked the team right now I might not be in it, so I've got some work to get back on the team, so that'll be a priority.

 Q. Talk about coming back after the mess at 15 with the birdies. 
 GEOFF OGILVY: Talk about it? I'm pretty disappointed making a 6 from pin high on 15. It's probably the easiest hole on the course. A pretty disappointing result. It wasn't the end of the world. It's only Thursday on the 15th hole. 
 But I hit a nice drive on 16. 16 is almost an unhittable fairway with a left to right wind. I would say half the fairway would have been in the right rough. It hits the fairway and bounced to the right. It went in the right but it was in that perfect zoysia rough, perfect yardage for my 58-degree wedge, and it was a good angle and everything, it just felt like birdie. So maybe I just got fortunate and I had a good lie and a good angle and I made birdie there. 
 17 if you hit the fairway, it's a hole you can get it close, too. It's designed for a birdie, too. I wasn't --
 I didn't take any swings at my bag with the putter after the 15th hole, but I wasn't too cheerful walking to the 16th. But it's only Thursday. I felt pretty good about my chances to finish 2- or 3-under. Anything under par was a good score today, so I wasn't too disappointed. 
 LAURA HILL: Thank you, Geoff. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT