DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 6, 2010
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Well played.   
 GEOFF OGILVY: Yeah, it was a good day. The way I had been playing, third or fourth place is a pretty good result for me, so I'm pretty happy with that. It keeps me in there because I was out of the picture a few weeks ago.   
  
  Q. Can you just talk about your round and your week?  
 GEOFF OGILVY: Yeah, it was a really good week. Saturday, second round, I just missed putts all day. Kind of weird, I hit a lot of greens and missed a lot of putts, but the rest of the time I putted really well. Four good days, but Friday just missed a few, and in the end just a few short, but it's going to be pretty tough to beat a guy that has 11 birdies on a Sunday when 4- or 5-under is the next best score for the day.   
 I mean, I had the best seat in the house to watch that. He hit great shots all day and I putted really well, and as soon as he got himself in trouble he'd go and hole a bunker shot or something like that, so it was a pretty class act, and he didn't look like doing anything but winning after about three holes.  
  
  Q. As well as you played, was it frustrating to know that you couldn't make up much ground?  
 GEOFF OGILVY: On 14 I hit a good shot in there and he was in the bunker. You know, I make it and he doesn't get it up-and-down, that's a two-shot swing, and in the end I walk off three behind at least. I missed that putt. It was frustrating because then he goes and birdies the next two holes.   
 As I said, after about three holes it looked like his day. You can tell when you look at a guy and it just looks like his day. As soon as he'd hit a bad shot he'd hit a great one to follow it up and putted really well. I think everyone is going to be pretty happy because he's a pretty popular guy out here.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 GEOFF OGILVY: Yeah, but as I said, I could have holed that and he could have missed his par putt. I hit it close and he was in the bunker, so maybe I could have been one back.   
 We didn't see a leaderboard for a long time, so I assumed he was going well, but I didn't know. There could have been six guys tied on 17. They were so bunched at the start, I didn't really know. Walking down 14 I thought I had a chance, and even walking down 15 I thought I was in it, and then he birdied 15 and I parred it, and that was it.   
  
  Q. Best you've played all year?  
 GEOFF OGILVY: Except for Kapalua, yeah.  
  
  Q. You said at Kapalua you didn't play great.   
 GEOFF OGILVY: Well, it wasn't as good as the year before, but at the time I thought I was going to kick on from there, and I deteriorated. But this is the best I've played for a long time, so it's nice.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT