DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 5, 2010
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. 64, 72 and 65. First of all, congratulations on a great round today.   
 GEOFF OGILVY: Yeah, I played really well today actually. It was tricky-ish, I guess. It's still out there for the taking. The greens are all so well that if you actually get a chance at it, you can hole a few putts out here if you're putting well.   
 Yesterday I played fine, I just didn't make any putts. The first round and today I putted really well, and yesterday I didn't putt very well. So hopefully they don't run away too much on the back nine and I'll have a shot tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Dramatic in terms of putting; yesterday 34 putts, today 25 putts out there.   
 GEOFF OGILVY: Yeah, yesterday I just hit the hole a lot and I left the ball short for some reason quite a lot. One of those days, one of those mysteries of golf that I'll probably never work out.  
  
  Q. How about tomorrow, what mysteries are you looking forward to in the final round?  
 GEOFF OGILVY: Well, if I just play like I did today -- as I said, hopefully they don't run away too much and make too many birdies on the back nine today. I need to have a good tournament here and next week. Yeah, hopefully they don't go too far in front of me and I can do what I did today and maybe even have a few better and see how I go.   
  
  Q. What was your thought for the day for the vast improvement of your putting?  
 GEOFF OGILVY: I putted better. I actually was quite close to the hole quite a lot yesterday. Well, never really close, but I feel like I was between 15 and 25 feet all day and didn't hole one of them, and I holed the longest one I had out there, about a 40-footer on the 8th hole. The rest of it I just kind of burnt the edge and left it short all day. I played with Brandt and watched him roll it in from everywhere, so it kind of felt even worse than it probably was. You have days like that. Today was similar to how I played on Friday, so yeah, nice. Hopefully yesterday didn't leave me too far back, but I think hopefully I'll have a chance tomorrow.   
 There's going to be a lot of guys in with a shot tomorrow, and it's proving that guys can go low out here, so I think I'm going to need another one at least that low to get close. Go out and do the same thing and hopefully hole a lot of putts.  
  
  Q. Overall this week?   
 GEOFF OGILVY: Yeah, compared to how I have been playing, it's a vast improvement. I've always enjoyed this tournament. I've often played quite well here. Without really ever scaring it, I've played okay here myself. I think a bit of space off the tee and bentgrass greens is more down my street than narrow and poa greens like we had last week. This is more my sort of place, and I enjoyed today quite a lot.   
  
  Q. Talk a little bit about the conditions over the three days, how they've been different.   
 GEOFF OGILVY: Yeah, it's definitely getting slightly drier each day. It was really blustery yesterday. It's had its moments today. It's been just as windy for us on the back nine probably, but not quite the strength of gusts, I guess. But you've got space off the tee here and you've got greens rolling perfect. They're holding -- the greens are staying good all day, so you get guys as good as these guys out here, chances are good they're going to make a few of them.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT