DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 3, 2010
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Talk about your day today.   
 GEOFF OGILVY: It was okay. This course probably needed a little bit of a bounce on it to be really challenging. I think the fairways kind of played kind of wide when it stopped, and the greens are perfect, so guys are going to go low. And then you don't often see 6-under outside the top 10 after one round, do you? That's kind of how it's playing. I think we got pretty lucky with the weather. There was a couple of weird little squalls there.  
  
  Q. They're talking about 30-mile-an-hour winds. Are you happy just to get through it?  
 GEOFF OGILVY: It was way better than I assumed it was going to be, than I expected it to be. The forecast -- although this morning the forecast had improved from what they were saying yesterday. I don't think it's going to be too good tonight, is it? It went further east than they thought?   
  
  Q. It'll be out of here by 3:00.   
 GEOFF OGILVY: I got my draw, whatever it is, Tuesday it comes out, and yeah, you just -- I have a look at weather.com and see what it's going to be, and then you see it's projected path of a hurricane coming straight there Saturday morning or Friday afternoon. I thought, well, late-early is going to be horrible, but it didn't turn out that bad. I'm sure it was easier this morning, but there were quite a lot of good scores this afternoon, too. It looked like it was going to be -- it had the potential to be the most lopsided draw in history, didn't it? The forecast was like 12:00 it all comes in and then it's gone by lunchtime on Saturday. But it didn't eventuate, at least today. The morning might be windy, but...  
  
  Q. Can you talk about your round?   
 GEOFF OGILVY: Yeah, I played well. I holed some putts, gave myself some chances. But I'm sure everyone out there today holed them. The greens are perfect and they're relatively easy to read. When the course is this soft you're going to have a lot of chances. Pretty good, yeah, better than it has been.   
 I've always played okay around here. It's one of those courses I feel like if I play well I do really well, and if I play bad, I kind of go okay. There's some courses, like last week, I feel like I have to play really well just to do okay. Does that make sense?   
  
  Q. Your bad is not as bad here is what you're saying?  
 GEOFF OGILVY: I feel like this course suits me a little better than some courses like last week.   
  
  Q. What's been going on with your game?  
 GEOFF OGILVY: Scoring badly. I know it sounds simplistic, but that's really all it is. I really don't know. My stats aren't that bad, like recently. They're horrible for the whole year, but they're not that bad recently. I don't know, it is what it is. It's one of those patches where if it can go wrong -- if you can get a bad lie in the rough, you do. It's just one of those things. Everyone has bad stretches. When you're playing well you tend to get the breaks and when you're struggling a little bit you tend to not get the breaks. It's just one of those things. It's been a year like that to be honest with you.  
  
  Q. Has there been one aspect of your game?  
 GEOFF OGILVY: Not really. I didn't hole any putts in the first half of the year, and that makes it difficult to score. Then I felt like I started putting a little bit better, but maybe I didn't hit it as well. I don't know, golf is a mystery.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT