MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 8, 2010
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How far into your round were you when the wind started to blow?  
 GEOFF OGILVY: Pretty early. It was obvious it was going to blow when we were hitting balls on the range. It kind of started to drift off our left and it kind of just picked up from there. It was legitimately windy from 5 or 6 probably. Probably 6. Two of us hit it over the green there and that's when it started being really windy. So most of the round. I mean it was not the easiest day out there.  
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 GEOFF OGILVY: 10 and 11 are really tough holes today. 12's awkward if you do it at the wrong time.   
 4 is only going to get harder and harder. It's just going to get harder all day if it continues. In which case it's difficult on a still day, but when it gets windy it makes the putting tricky too.  
  
  Q. What did you hit into 11 today?  
 GEOFF OGILVY: I had, I was on, I wasn't in the trees but I had to go under the trees and I chose to not risk hitting a big cutter in the trees. I just laid it up to 80 yards and actually got up-and-down for par, so.  
  
  Q. Obviously not delighted, but are you somewhat relieved to get out of there without too much damage?  
 GEOFF OGILVY: Yeah, I couldn't touch the hole from three feet the first nine holes, so it was the worst I ever putted in my life.   
 It was kind of weird. If I would have even had a normal putting round for nine holes I would have been even or under par, probably under par, and I was 4-over. So it was a bit annoying. Especially with holes like 10 and 11 and 12 coming up into the wind. So 2-over's pretty good considering the start.   
  
  Q. Did you change your putting stroke or what?  
 GEOFF OGILVY: I don't know. They just weren't going in and when they don't go in on a blustery day out here it seems like the hole is very small.   
 But they weren't easy putts, but I mean I had makeable birdie putts three or four times on the front nine from five or six feet and missed them all.   
 Then I had one on 12 and I missed it again and then 3-putted 13 for par. So there wasn't much, I wasn't, it was frustrating to putt like that, because that's generally a pretty fairly consistent part of my game.   
 But 2-over's not the end of the world. At the end of the day you can afford to have a 2-over and you can still go on to win this tournament.  
  
  Q. You must have progressed bringing it back like that.   
 GEOFF OGILVY: It was a good -- the first nine holes I couldn't have hit it any worse, the last nine holes, I hit it as good as I could have.   
 I got up-and-down on 10 or par, up-and-down on 11 for par.   
 12 and 13 were, I missed a short one and a 3-putt.   
 14, I chipped in for par.   
 15 and 16 I made birdie.   
 So, I mean, the last nine holes were fine, if I, if that was the thing all day I would have been probably under par.  
  
  Q. Was that chip-in huge? Did it change your mindset do you think?  
 GEOFF OGILVY: Yeah, it was nice. It wasn't, it was a chip that was 15 foot chip shot, I mean it was a shot that you hope to hole one out of five times. And it was a relatively makeable chip shot.   
 But after missing all the putts, yeah, it was nice. And you got 15 and 16, 16 I knew was a birdie pin and 15 wasn't playing as hard today. It was tricky, you could mess it up, but it's not as hard as today. And 17 and 18 are downwind. So it was nice to have something positive happen.  
  
  Q. Did you get home in two?  
 GEOFF OGILVY: I drove it in the trees, I had to lay up. But I got it up-and-down for birdie. So going for the green is kind of iffy today with the wind. And if you hit it over the green you're going to have a horrible little chip shot down there. So it wasn't just smash at it, if you get it on the fairway, go for it, if not, just chip it out and wedge it on the green.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT