TRANSITIONS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 20, 2010
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Yesterday, plus two, you walk off the golf course; you've got to explain to everyone the story what happened getting on the plane and now you're back and you shoot 65 in the third round.   
 GEOFF OGILVY: Yeah, I guess it's crazy. I finished tied for 85th when I got to the locker room on the computer and I changed my flight. I thought I'm pretty safe to miss the cut. The weather was perfect in the afternoon and it all looked good.   
 So I had like a 6 o'clock flight, got all the way to the airport and somebody called me and said, "You've come into 72nd." So I got off the plane, but they refused to get my bags off the plane.   
 So the only way -- and I couldn't get them back until this afternoon. So the only way for me to actually get my bags with me in Tampa, today, was fly all the way to Phoenix, get my bags in Phoenix and fly all the way back. So what's that I did. I flew all the way to Phoenix last night, I left Phoenix probably about two o'clock Eastern time and here we are. It was worth coming back.  
  
  Q. Well, I don't know if it's worth asking you about the round now after that story. After all that, to shoot 65, but you did most of the damage on the back side?  
 GEOFF OGILVY: I did. I started okay. I mean, a tricky course. You have to hit good shots. I was at even par after eight holes and kind of got going, birdied 9, 10 and a few others after that.   
 Didn't birdie the 11th which was frustrating because I was right in the middle of the fairway; I had a perfect 5-wood in.   
 So I holed a lot of putts today. I hit the ball nicely. Even the holes I didn't birdie, I was playing nicely. So it's nice to be back in the tournament when 24 hours ago, I thought I was on my way home.  
  
  Q. Totally different wind direction, the wind out of the southeast today, the 14th hole, the par 5, no one able to get to it the first two days, 590 yards, but you were able to put it on that putting surface in two and putt for eagle.   
 GEOFF OGILVY: It's much more fun that way. That's a brutal hole into the wind because there's water on the lay-up over the hill, and it's driver and a long iron and a wedge or something. Today it was driver, 5-wood and a 20 -foot putt which was really, really nice. I think the field will probably eat that up, but two par 3s that have been playing easy are really, really hard today. So you get the advantage on the par 5s but you get hurt a little on the par 3s.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT