WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 17, 2010
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You've had some wonderful results in this championship but that's your biggest win ever; what was responsible for that?
 GEOFF OGILVY: I played quite tidy. We had a really weird start to the match. Good stuff from me, and bad stuff from me -- we kind of gifted each other a hole or two out there on the first few. I don't think we halved a hole. I don't think I've ever been involved in a match where I never halved a hole before. It was kind of weird. 
 I got after it and got some really good shots. From 8 onwards I hardly missed a shot. I played really, really. A little bit of good play from me, and definitely not Alex's best today. A little bit of both contributed to a big result. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 GEOFF OGILVY: I look forward to it. It's obviously a tournament I've really enjoyed. I've been on both ends of it.
 I think I went home after three holes, losing in the first round to Justin Leonard a few years ago, and that's the exact opposite emotion. It's a pretty daunting feeling, it's like leaving the tournament after playing 16 or 17 holes. I look forward to it, but you can't have too many expectations. There's an element in this tournament that's slightly out of your control. You can just get outplayed by someone who's playing better that day. 
 So I come here just trying to play well. I know it's a format I'm going to enjoy. I just try to get into the tournament. Every time I've gotten off to a good start I've gotten into the final. So I think it's a tournament once you get the first rounds under your belt, you get the match play back in your system and you kind of start enjoying it a little bit more. And one of those enjoyable moments for me. I come down with no expectations, but knowing it will be enjoyable.

 Q. They made some subtle changes to the course, have they had much of an impact?
 GEOFF OGILVY: I think there's a few more pins they would have wanted to put out there last year, but were a little bit afraid. And the greens are a foot or two faster than last year. They were really quite slow last year, which I don't mind slow greens when you've got slopes like this. It actually ended playing really well. At the end of the week, on the weekend we were holing a lot of putts, it was just hard to get into them. This year it's a little bit faster. It's allowed them to sneak a few pins into those spots that Jack was envisioning, add a little more creativity. Use the width of the fairways to get the angle and stuff. I think it's some interesting stuff, really. I think it's an improvement. It's going to help add -- the more pins you can have, the more dimensions to the golf course. So I think it's done nothing but help. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT