DUBAI WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY DP WORLD
November 22, 2009
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  GEOFF OGILVY: It was okay. I played pretty nicely. I hit the ball pretty well most of the week. I didn't hole many putts the first couple of days but I started holing putts the last couple of days which was nice.   
 It's my fourth week in a row and I'm a little bit weary and looking forward to going home. I think the tournament lived up to it's billing.   
 I think Lee has earned The Race to Dubai today, and I think Rory had a pretty impressive crack for a 20-year-old this year. It's a pretty impressive season and he played fantastic again today. I've never seen anything but great golf out of him and he's got a big future I think.  
  
  Q. Having tested yourself over this Earth Course, what are your feelings about the man who will win Europe's No. 1 and this championship?   
 GEOFF OGILVY: It's pretty impressive. If you disregard Tiger Woods, probably the most consistent players of the last two years in the world. Someone told me 26 Top-10s in two years or something, which is an absurd kind of consistency, and that's how you win The Race to Dubai. You're up there every week that you play, and he's done that, and he's come here and he needed to finish in front of Rory, and Rory has finished third, and he's done that. So hats off to him. It's very impressive.  
  
  Q. Your year, a good one?  
 GEOFF OGILVY: I started well. My first few months was great. If you had asked me the rest of the year wasn't wonderful, but I started finding a little bit more game the last month, you know what I mean.   
 We had fun at The Presidents Cup and the last few weeks have been quite enjoyable. Shanghai I didn't play too bad, and then here. So going home for a week off and then a couple of Australian tournaments, and set my head around getting to next year.   
  
  Q. We see you having another bash at The Race to Dubai next season?  
 GEOFF OGILVY: For sure. I've joined the Tour and my first tournament will be Abu Dhabi.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT