DUBAI WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY DP WORLD
November 21, 2009
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Your reflections on the day and your position in the tournament?
 GEOFF OGILVY: I played quite nicely today. Good start, 3-under after 7. Bogeyed the 8 which is fine because it's a really hard hole. Kind of got stagnated there in the middle of the round for a while, then an eagle and two birdies in a row to get right back amongst it, and bogeyed 16 which again is not that bad. It's a pretty horrible hole to play today actually. 
 The under is all right. I'm not without a chance tomorrow but I probably need to go pretty low tomorrow.

 Q. But there are low scores; Robert Allenby did it on day one. 
 GEOFF OGILVY: I think so. I could have done three or four better today if I had a few good putts go in, which is what you need to do when you go low. It's definitely out there. 
 The guys, Rory and Lee, are giving everyone the show that everyone wants to have. So hopefully I can shoot a low one tomorrow and maybe spoil their party.

 Q. Let me ask how you are.
 GEOFF OGILVY: I've got a cold or a flu or something so I'm medicating up as much as I can. Looking to get back to the room and go to sleep and hopefully I'll feel better tomorrow.

 Q. Not one of those that affected your play as such, but were you having to take things out there in the heat? 
 GEOFF OGILVY: You've just got to drink a lot of water and took some Paracetamol. I'm not too bad. I've been a lot worse than this. Keeps your mind off bad golf shots, though, sometimes, so sometimes it can be a good thing. 

 Q. Before that sleep, I do have to ask you about the course. Greg Norman design. What do you make of it?
 GEOFF OGILVY: It's a very interesting golf course. There is some good stuff out here, and there's some stuff that I'm having a hard time working out. There's a lot of bunkers in the middle of fairways and stuff, and it's kind of hard to work out where he wanted us to hit it on some holes. But it's an interesting place.

 Q. That word "interesting" can cover a multitude of sins. You're being very diplomatic, I gather?
 GEOFF OGILVY: It is what it is. Sometimes when they have such a scale of a budget and such a big piece of land, they use it all. In some situations, it's hard to see why they have used so much land. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT