THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 11, 2009
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You had a nice win today over Steve Stricker.   
 GEOFF OGILVY: Yeah, it's a consolation prize, I guess really. Disappointed for the team. I'm sure we all tried our best all week. We seemed to get the foursomes worked out, but we just kind of lost a little point here and there in the four-balls. And coming in today, we had too much to do and the U.S. Team was obviously very motivated and got a lot of red on the board early.  
  
  Q. What's the most positive thing you'll take away from The Presidents Cup?   
 GEOFF OGILVY: I played very well the last two days. I played rubbish the first two days. I played quite well the last two days. I got to spend a bit more time in the team room with the guys. We had a lot of fun this week. It's been fun to hang out with Ishikawa and Yang and guys I didn't know, and hang out with the Shark for a whole week. That was a thrill I didn't know I would ever get. So it's been a great week like that.   
 So we have to work out a way to get it done in Melbourne.   
  
  Q. You battled out there with Stricker today, you got him down early, winning the second hole, but he battled back a lot on you, but you birdied 15 and 17 to put him away.   
 GEOFF OGILVY: Yeah, I guess the standard was a little scrappy, I guess you could say. The front nine, that 's not how he's been playing for sure. I knew he was going to be one of the hardest guys to draw today, because he's been unbeatable with Tiger the first few days. He's been one of best players in the world for the last two years, and especially the last six months, he's been playing so well, and he putts so well, which is going to make it hard in match play.   
 But I got off to a good start and got my nose in the front and the standard picked up the last five or six holes. We both played well the last five or six holes. I was lucky I was in front going into the last five or six holes because it might have been a different story.  
  
  Q. What memories do you take away from this week?   
 GEOFF OGILVY: As I said to TV, we got to hang out with the Shark this week.  
  
  Q. Was he your hero as a kid?   
 GEOFF OGILVY: I think most guys my age, no matter where they are from, Norman was one of their heroes, and especially for Australians, it's been a big thrill for us.  
 That and the fact that we just have so much fun this week. We don't get to spend weeks like this very often. The U.S. guys get the Ryder Cup, which is probably a bit more tense. This one we get once every two years, we get to hang out with the boys and ride the team bus and meet all of the other wives that we don't know.   
 Our team is more of a mixed bag of people; Ishikawa, none of us knew him and now we all can count him as a friend.   
 We've had lots of fun this week. I haven't been on a winning one of these, I'm sure it's lots of fun to win one. Hopefully we can get that sussed out in Melbourne.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT