THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 10, 2009
Robert Allenby
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Did you do it anything different today?   
 GEOFF OGILVY: I played better. I drove the ball in the fairway, which was nice. I wasn't trying to hole chip shots all day. Yesterday I hardly hit a green yesterday afternoon and it's tough to make birdie when you're trying to chip the ball in.   
 I hit the ball a lot better today. I drove the ball a lot better. I holed a couple of nice putts. Robert holed a lot of nice putts, we combined really well. We never birdied the same hole. He birdied a hole and a few holes later I would birdie a hole.   
 Yeah, we felt like we were right on top of the match. We didn't want to come all the way to the 18th hole. Our first point this week, so more enjoyable than the first two days.   
  
  Q. They didn't win a hole until 11, was it more of them not pushing the envelope?   
 GEOFF OGILVY: We holed a couple of bonus putts for sure and they didn't play their best for ten holes. Then they got a couple back and it got a little closer than we wanted towards the end.   
 Best-ball, it can all change in one swing from one guy. So we had more good swings today than they did and we came out on top.   
 ROBERT ALLENBY: We still have half the team out on the course, we'll see what results we come up with. We'll see.   
 We know that we have to come out strong tomorrow and get off the block early, because then that puts momentum in for the rest of the guys.   
 You know, we have done well. If we can just make another halve or get the next couple, it will be good.   
  
  Q. Nice way to close out the match?   
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Yeah, nice to close it out. It was one of those things where I knew that they were both in the trap here, and you know that they are going to make birdie. So when I saw Stewart Cink's ball just miss carrying, I thought if I could hit it as good as I could hit it on the perfect line, and it bounced up on the green -- it's never an easy putt. It kind of looks easy, but it's not, because all you want to do is get it close.  
 And trying to not make it and actually get it close, sometimes you can hit it six feet past. Then all of a sudden, who knows, you can be going down 18. So that was a good putt. It was a sneaky little putt there.   
  
  Q. Match play is often about impulse and things happen quickly, but in this match, you really were patient all the way through.   
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Yeah, we were very patient. We played a lot of great shots and between us we made some really good putts. So we did well. They did well just to hang in there really, because we played solid. We played really, really solid.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT