BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 10, 2009
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. As you made the turn, you had to be feeling pretty good about things and how well you played. 
 GEOFF OGILVY: Yeah, it was a nice front nine to play, obviously. I hit a bunch of good shots, holed a few nice putts. I got up-and-down -- I missed a couple of greens and got up-and-down when I needed to, holed a big bonus putt on the 18th down the hill that was going kind of fast, and that would have gone a long way past the hole. 
 Yeah, happy after nine holes. Not disappointed after 18. 3-under is pretty good. I didn't really feel like making double on the 6th hole, but that happens. It's a long week. If I shot 3-under every round I think I would be pretty close at the end of it.

 Q. This is obviously a course that because of the refurbishments it's being seen in a lot of ways for the first time. Do you think that's where it's going to be, 10, 12?
 GEOFF OGILVY: It's impossible to say, I think. I don't know what sort of forecast is coming. If it's like this every day, these tees, the exact same course we played, 3- or 4-under a day would be a great score. So yeah, like 10, 11, 12. 
 But a lot of tees were forward and the pins weren't terribly difficult. I mean, you could set the course up a lot -- they've got a lot of scope to make it harder and they've got a bit of scope to make it play a lot easier. It really depends how they set it up and what sort of weather we get.

 Q. Did it kind of play as expected?
 GEOFF OGILVY: That would be your expectation --

 Q. What did you expect is what I'm asking. 
 GEOFF OGILVY: I didn't really know. There seemed to be quite a few birdies out there in the pro-am, but there was also a lot of bogeys to be had, and I guess that's about how it played. I tried not to go in with expectations to be honest with you. 
 This course looks similar to how it had in the past around Cog Hill to be honest with you. As I said, the tees were somewhat forward. They didn't use a lot of the new back tees. The pins aren't too difficult. I'm sure there will be area of the course that show more teeth during the week when they strengthen the setup a bit, and there will be some holes that maybe you can birdie. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT