PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2009
Geoff Ogilvy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You had your share of ups and downs. How do you feel?
 GEOFF OGILVY: Pretty good. If you told me after five holes I was going to be under par after the end of it, I would have been happy. Do over after five isn't exactly how you want to start a tournament like this. It's going to be difficult. If you miss the fairways out here it's really hard because the rough is really thick. I missed a couple fairways, made a couple of bogeys. Made a few birdies. Probably in reality should have finished two or three better probably.
 Anything under par around here I think is pretty good. If I string a few more together, I'll be fine.

 Q. After you started out Tiger posted 5 under. Was that inspiring or intimidating?
 GEOFF OGILVY: It showed that there was a decent score out there because there were some red numbers out there. Whatever you guys might want to think, it doesn't really throw fear into many of us, I don't think, on the first tee. It just illustrates the birdies out there. Harrington had a good score. Two guys in the world playing really well, one and two last week. It gives you a good measure of what's out there to be had. Good scores. It just really made me feel really good. Maybe this isn't going to be as tough as we thought. Maybe there's a few birdies out here if guys are making birdies this weekend.

 Q. A lot of ways the greens are getting bumpy?
 GEOFF OGILVY: I don't know how much breeze they played in. The last few holes wasn't bad. A patch that was pretty breezy. If you caught the wrong holes in the wind, it would have been difficult. I'm not sure what kind of wind they played in. The greens are different at the end of the day to the start of the day to say the least. Two different sorts of grasses there. When they cut in the morning they're perfect, but they grow in different speeds and different directions so by the end of the day there's a little bit of more hazards on the greens than there would be in the morning. But we both -- that's why we have an early start and a late start. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT