ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 26, 2018
JJ Henry
Tom Hoge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. A very consistent performance.  JJ, you were out in 31, home in 31.
JJ HENRY: Yeah, we had a great day.  Obviously I love playing with Tom.  We're both proud TC grads.  We both live in Fort Worth.  We play and practice a lot together.  We're really comfortable around each other, so I think that's a lot to do with it.
You know, when you get somebody you're comfortable with and you kind of feed off each other.  Tom, we both played really well.  We hit a lot of good shots.  Made the putts when we did.
Like to say, you can't win it on the first day, but we put ourself in a position where we're in a good spot and we're playing well.  Look forward to the next three days.
Q. Tom, we don't see too many tees out at the 14th.  Really nice to have that on the card.
TOM HOGE: Yeah, you know, I got off to kind of a rough start here on 10; lip of the bunker.  Just tried to hit some good shots from there and get some putts at birdies.  You know, we kind of talked about we both had putts at birdies in each of the holes in the better ball, that we should be in better shape.
Nice shot in there and a good putt.  Kind of nice to get going early and get us on the right track.
Q. You guys really had changing conditions.  What, about an hour of rain and sun and a little wind.  How is the course playing?
CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, there was rain when we were warming up.  We kind if had it perfect, because it stopped right when we went off the first tee.  But it was receptive; it was good.  The wind came up there a little bit at the end, but some good scores out there for sure.
Q. JJ, so we got any purple in the wardrobe this week?
JJ HENRY: We got plenty of purple.  This is a purple state as well, right, with LSU fans and everything.  Again, this is a really fun event.  I think all the players really enjoy mixing it up for a week.  Obviously we're grinding week after week.  To be able to have a buddy and feed off each other and have some fun, win or lose it's a fun week; it's a great city to kind of do this.
We got a little hopefully walk-up music on the weekend even.  If makes for a great week.  They do a great job here at Zurich, and it's fun to get off to a good start.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT