UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS AT SAN ANTONIO FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 10, 2018
Darryl Godfrey
Les Maruo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
FIU - 45, UTSA - 7   
 Q.  Why don't you just sum up overall what did you see from the team today and the effort and the attitude you brought out there?  
DARRYL GODFREY: Well, we had the effort.  I mean, we know what needed to be done, but we just didn't execute.  That was about it.   
LES MARUO: Yeah, we fought hard, but we just didn't do our job.  We just didn't finish our job.  We've just got to do better.  We've just got to practice better and do our assignments better, overall, defense, offense, special teams, everything.  As a team, we've just got to play better.   
 Q.  Darryl, what did you think of Bryce Rivers?  
DARRYL GODFREY: I knew he was capable of doing everything like people said he would do, so I wasn't really too surprised or shocked about him completing that pass.  He's going to be really good in the future.   
 Q.  Was there anything different in practice through the week for you guys to try to rebound from last week's loss, or how did you compare the two weeks of preparation?  
DARRYL GODFREY: We had a lot of energy this past week.  We came out to practice ready to practice, and I just feel like we just need to -- the main thing is execution when it comes down to it, but we had a really good week of practice, so we need to keep that up.   
LES MARUO: Yeah, we had a lot of energy in practice, but on defense we've got to finish our play on 3rd down, and we can't give up big plays.  Offense, we just have to do our job and just finish the game.   
 Q.  Darryl, y'all came out 25 tackles combined.  How do you feel about y'all's performance tonight?  
DARRYL GODFREY: Good.  Good.  I'm really proud of my performance, or our performance, and I mean, when it comes down to it, I really want that win, and that's what we've got to do.   
LES MARUO: Yeah, I mean, I thought I played good, but I could have made more plays.  I had a couple missed tackles that I could have made on 3rd down, and stats might look like I played really good, but I feel like I could have done a lot better.   
 Q.  For both of you guys, in the first quarter it seemed like you guys really were able to hold down FIU, and then did they figure something out in the second quarter where they were able to convert a bunch of 3rd downs, a couple of 4th downs?  What happened in those two middle quarters?  
DARRYL GODFREY: Just us not executing, communication problems, like they really didn't figure anything out.  It was on us.   
LES MARUO: Yeah, our mistakes were hurting the team.  Just missed coverage, mis-hits, missed assignments, and just not getting the communication on time, and then just not being ready.  They didn't do nothing special.  We practiced for it.  We were ready, but we just didn't do our job.   
 Q.  How do you guys try to regroup going forward or what has to happen for you to change the mentality and get some better results the next week?  
DARRYL GODFREY: We've just got to keep our energy up.  We've just got to keep moving forward and just know that it's not over.  We still have a lot more games to -- well, a lot more time to play.  Like two games, that's a lot of games, a lot of time to play, and we've just got to come together and just be a team and keep moving forward.   
LES MARUO: Yeah, we've just got to keep our heads up.  I'm a senior, I only have two more games, so I'm going to give it my all, but the team has got to do the same thing.  We have a lot of underclassmen playing, but they've got to realize that we've got to play as a whole.  I'm going to give it my all.  I'm a senior, so I've only got two more games.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT