PENN STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 5, 2019
Journey Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I just want to ask about the bye week, how do you utilize that for rest and recovery and do you use it to see your family?
JOURNEY BROWN: Yeah, so we had to like practice and stuff the whole week. So I did a lot of like regen and got in the tubs and got massages and stuff, took care of my body.
Got in the sauna and sweated a little bit. I did a lot of preparing my body. Then yeah, I went home, saw my mom, my little sister and a lot of my friends and stuff. It was good. Got like re-booted physically and mentally.
Q. You've had a lot of success in the red zone this year, and not scored on only two of your 31 opportunities. What makes you guys so successful in the red zone? The ability to run and pass the ball, how much confidence does that give?
JOURNEY BROWN: I feel like that gives a lot of confidence, because defense is always guessing. You never know what we are going to do because we do really good.
So just having the game plan and what Coach Rahne calls and what he feels comfortable with and just call in and we score like we have been, yeah.
Q. We were asking Coach Franklin about the whole 1-0 mantra and how it seems like now guys are not just repeating it, but embracing it. I guess for you, when did you kind of embrace that mindset, and how did you go about that?
JOURNEY BROWN: Me personally, it just takes a lot of stress off you. You don't have to worry about the future. You don't have to worry about what happened before. You focus on what's coming up, and what you've got to do, you know. That 1-0 mentality, I bought into that when I first got here. It just kind of is my own type of method, focus on the now, worry about the other stuff later.
Q. Talk about the challenges of Minnesota this weekend.
JOURNEY BROWN: Just how athletic they are and how they move, when they blitz schemes and all that good stuff, they do everything really well. We've just got to be prepared for what they throw at us and just be ready.
Q. Do you look forward to playing in a place that you have never been before?
JOURNEY BROWN: Oh, yeah. You know, I never been to Minnesota. It's always fun to go travel and stuff and play. I'm like very excited to play in an environment like this.
Q. Game is technically at 11:00 locally. Is that a thing that actually makes a difference?
JOURNEY BROWN: No, I'm like a green light. I'm always on go, so I'm not worried about the time.
Q. I know none of you in the backfield are accustomed to being 25-carry guys over the course of your college career, but through eight games, do you get the sense that you all -- we know Noah is banged up, but that you're more healthy than the average running back in college football because you have shared the load?
JOURNEY BROWN: Yeah, I feel good. We all kind of feel good because how we share the load and how we do things here.
But yeah, I guess could you say I feel better. I don't know how other guys feel, so I can't really speak on it. But I definitely feel good, fresh and always ready to go every week, yeah.
Q. It was a topic of conversation of who was going to be the lead back. How did it get to this point for it to feel natural?
JOURNEY BROWN: That was from the get-go. That started at camp. Coach Seider told us it was going to be like this, and for me personally, I don't care if I get one yard, one carry. We have the mentality, if one of us eats, we all eat. So I'm comfortable for whoever starts or if it's me, it's me. If I get 30 carries a game, so be it. If I get one carry a game, as long as we win the game, it doesn't matter to me.
Q. It's been four years now since your 722-yard game. So I've got to ask prior to right now, when is the last time someone brought that up? Is that still kind of like a part that you have to deal with every now and then?
JOURNEY BROWN: Actually when I was coming home this weekend, one of my mentors, Kyle and his dad asked me how often do I get that question. So if that counts, probably this week. I get asked every time I meet somebody new, they are like, "Hey, man, great job, how is cool -- just one question, how did you get" -- yeah, yeah, the whole spiel.
Q. Have you ever been more tired than you were that day? Has Penn State, I guess, kind of at a training or session where you've been more tired?
JOURNEY BROWN: I thought that was going to be the tiredest I've ever been until I got here and did the winter workout. That's the tiredest I've ever been in my life when we work out and stuff, for sure.
Q. Going back to high school, if you look on the all-time PIAA rushing list, one of your teammates has you beat by 52 yards, LaMont Wade. Curious if you hear from him about the fact that he's a little bit on you on the rush list.
JOURNEY BROWN: No, we don't really talk about like the high school stuff no more. Every once in a while -- he knows I'm a running back and he plays defense. I just let him know, if it really mattered, it came down to it, you see I play running back, buddy.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT