STATE FARM MISSOURI VALLEY CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 9, 2019
Darian DeVries
Tremell Murphy
Anthony Murphy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Northern Iowa - 60, Drake - 58   
THE MODERATOR: Drake Bulldogs are here.  Head coach Darian DeVries, student-athletes Tremell Murphy, Anthony Murphy.  We'll have a statement of the game from Darian, and then we'll go to questions from all three of the Bulldogs on the dais.  Coach, please.   
DARIAN DeVRIES: I guess I'll start off just saying how proud I am of our group and the year they've had.  It's a tough way to end it.  It always is.  It doesn't take away from the way we all feel about these guys and what they've been able to accomplish this year.  So came up a little short with a hard-fought game by both teams and came one play away on the wrong end on this one.  But extremely proud of our guys.   
 Q.  Darian, just looking at this year as a whole and what you guys have been able to accomplish, how would you kind of sum things up?  
DARIAN DeVRIES: It's a year where you start off with all question marks when you get the job, and then these guys come together, and you haven't played a game as a group.  So from where you start in November to this point in March, I thought this group has really made it -- made us proud of the university and things and the way they've gone about their day-to-day activities on the floor and off the floor.  And I told them in the locker room what they've done to establish a culture long term for what we want to do for a head coach in his first year couldn't ask for a better group of guys to establish what they've done.   
 Q.  What would you say about what was obviously just such a tightly contested game?  You answered so many.  It was just punch-counterpunch.  And it just seems the fact that the clock ran out is the only reason you didn't have an opportunity to get the "W."  
DARIAN DeVRIES: It was a grinder game.  I don't think either team felt like they got into a real flow offensively.  I thought somebody would get up four or six and the other guys would come back and retake the lead.  It was a possession-by-possession game.  We had a little hard time there for stretches of finding ways to score, and that impacted us a little bit, I thought, but Wyatt Lohaus was obviously the difference maker for them and played a terrific game.   
I thought we fought back, got ourselves back in it, got the game tied, and just needed one more stop to play on for five minutes.  And Noah's half-court would have been a much more fitting ending if he'd have banked that one in.   
 Q.  Anthony, what allowed you guys to get out to such a great start, and how would you kind of assess the way this team's come together with all the missing pieces to get so close to getting to that championship game?  
ANTHONY MURPHY: All the missing pieces we had glued together.  We didn't hang our head low.  We came out fighting.  We never give up.  We just love to compete.  So that's it.   
 Q.  Tremell, what have you been able to learn about yourself and your team just from this experience at Drake here?  
TREMELL MURPHY: Just stick together.  We fight for one another.  Everybody competes hard.  That's what I really like about this team and the coaches.   
THE MODERATOR: Gentlemen, thank you.  Congratulations on a wonderful season.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT