ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE BASEBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
May 21, 2019
Mik Aoki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Duke - 10, Notre Dame - 6
THE MODERATOR: We'll get started with the Notre Dame press conference.  We have head coach Mik Aoki.  Coach, if you can give us an opening statement and then we'll open it up for questions.
COACH AOKI: I thought that offensively, at least, we competed really well against some pretty good arms.  Gave ourselves an opportunity to come back from a sloppy start at the very -- in the first couple of innings.  At the end of the day I think we gave up too many free 90s.  We walked them, what is this, 12 times, couple of wild pitches, just sort of gave away a little bit too much.
I'd also like to -- I would be remiss if I didn't hope that Ethan Murray is okay.  That was kind of an ugly, ugly deal there.  So I hope that for whatever postseason opportunities Duke has that he'll be back and okay for that whole deal.
THE MODERATOR: Questions?
Q. [Question off mic]
COACH AOKI: I think you talk to the hitters in particular about just controlling the things you can control, which is their at-bats, the competitiveness of their at-bats, making sure that they're putting good swings on pitches that you still want to hit.
I thought we did a good job of at least answering with a run so that we kind of arrest the momentum a little bit.  Unfortunately we go out and cough up two.  But then we answered that as well.  And at some point it was, after Gilgs (phonetic) hit the home run it was 7-6, we gave ourselves an opportunity -- Girard is not a kid who's going to give up a ton of runs, that's a really good arm.  We had our opportunity there in the eighth to maybe claw back into it.
Q. With Duke's pitching, they did seem to come up with the pitches when they needed to.  Seemed like you had the numbers that might have produced a lot more runs tonight.
COACH AOKI: I think so, right?  That eighth inning was a big one, I think.  Girard getting two punch-outs with the bases loaded with just the one out.  He goes through Gilgenbach and Miller.  And he made some good pitches.  I mean, that breaking ball is a good breaking ball.  The changeup against lefties is a good pitch.  And you still have to count for 92.  It's a pretty darned good arm.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT