IOWA STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 18, 2017
Zeb Noland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Iowa State - 23, Baylor - 13
ZEB NOLAND: A win's a win, no matter what the offense or defense does.  It's just great to get a win.
Q. How would you grade your personal performance?
ZEB NOLAND: I mean, I won't know until I watch the film.  I feel like I played good enough to win, and that's what it's all about.
Q. Coach Campbell said your start reminded him of Kyle's a little.  Took a couple drives to settle in, but once it got going.  Did it feel like that?
ZEB NOLAND: Yeah, I mean, you know, as your first start, sometimes especially away, Kyle and I's first start were both away.  You kind of just got to settle in.  Your practice there, you played there, everything looks the same, and it was just good once I got settled in and got ready to go.
Q. What did you see on that bomb you threw to Hakeem and him kind of having to fight through a few tackles and get in the end zone?
ZEB NOLAND: Well, I knew that he was going to be there and be open.  I just knew I had to give him a ball good enough to catch.  I didn't even realize that he was breaking tackles and scoring until I looked down.  I was looking at the sideline for the next play.  So you know, it was awesome to see him get a big touchdown like that.
Q. Did you know you were going to him the whole time?
ZEB NOLAND: No, it was just the coverage.  Whatever the coverage was, go to him or go to the other side.
Q. What did you think about the run game the second half?  It felt like that's kind of what carried --
ZEB NOLAND: Oh, yeah.  I mean, the run game in the second half was absolutely unreal.  I think it's been a long time coming in our offense because some games we've been back and forth between pass and run.  But when the run got going, I like seeing what David and what Sheldon did.  It's unreal.  I really like watching them run.
Q. What have you seen from Sheldon when he gets his shot?
ZEB NOLAND: Well, I mean, Sheldon's practiced great.  He's earned the right to play.  I knew when he got in there, he was going to hang on to the ball and give it everything he had, every play.
Q. What was your reaction when you see someone like David go down and I guess then to find out his x-rays were negative.
ZEB NOLAND: Right.  It hurts because best player on offense with the ball in his hand.  I know how David is.  He's tough as nails and I know that he didn't want to be laying there on the ground.
I knew he was going to get up and walk off the field regardless of what it was.  Just I hope he's all right, because I haven't even got to talk to him yet.  But I'm really proud of the way David played today.
Q. I know Coach Campbell had talked a little bit about before the Oklahoma game, when he told you, he called you into his office and said you weren't going to be the guy.  How well do you remember that meeting?
ZEB NOLAND: I mean, it was short and quick.  He said I'm going to start Kyle this week.  I started smiling, because I knew it was Kyle's time and I was happy for him, because me and Kyle are pretty close.
So just to see, I knew Kyle after he got told he was going to start, he would come out shining.  I was just excited for Kyle.  Just like he was excited for me today, I was just as excited for him.
Q. What was your communication with Kyle when the defense was on the field between series for you today?
ZEB NOLAND: We just talked.  We didn't really even talk about football that much.  That's like our thing is we talk a little bit about what happened that drive, and then we go, you know, we talk about life or whatever.  Just try to keep each other's minds off what's going on and keep each other calm.
Q. (No microphone) really fresh.  Was there any kind of big takeaway or learning moment from the game that you have right now?
ZEB NOLAND: Just stay posed and take what they give you and you and just not get too high with the highs or too -- I mean, there were some low points where we got stopped on third down.  And those are things that happen in the game so just staying poised through it all.
I know we had two really big turnovers and trying to stay poised on offense was our goal.  That way, we didn't, you know, nothing bad happened.  You know, bad snap or anything.  So that's really where I think that I'm going to take away from the game is staying poised through touchdowns, whatever.  Just stay poised.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT