SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 1, 2007
Lauren Ervin
Susie Gardner
Brittney Vaughn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:  Joining us now from Arkansas, head coach Susie Gardner and Brittany Vaughan and Lauren Ervin.  Coach, make an opening comment. 
 COACH GARDNER:  I was pleased with the way that our team started the game.  We tweaked some things for Kentucky.  We had a different little game plan.  It was really working well.  Felt great about our defense, trapping all ball screens and disrupting them. 
 We let their Pfeiffer get open for a couple of threes and kind of turned the game.  But, you know, we battled back.  We didn't quit fighting.  We just didn't have enough offensively to win this game. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Questions. 

 Q.  Lauren, could you talk about the second half, the high-low game they got going, why that was so hard to defend. 
 LAUREN ERVIN:  It was pretty hard to defend.  We didn't know if we were going to switch it or not.  If we did switch, when the post was dribbling the ball over, we switched.  Elliott was right in front of us and just sealed us perfectly.  It's pretty hard to get around her when she's working. 
 Even vice versa, if Elliott brings it, Humphrey was posting up in front of us. 
 COACH GARDNER:  It was an on-ball string post to post.  What we do is we switch posts.  What they were doing is, Lauren would then be on the ball, and then they were posting up Sarah or Danielle.  6'6" on about 6'.  That's when we decided we would go zone 'cause they just kept pounding it, pounding it.  We felt we needed to change. 
 My hesitation going to zone was thinking back to last game when they shot it so well.  We did a great job of adjusting in practice.  We talked about, Okay, where the shooters were.  I thought we did an excellent job in the second half with our zone this time. 

 Q.  Brittney, did it ever become frustrating out there?  They were so tall inside.  Seemed like you were fighting a losing battle because of that. 
 BRITTNEY VAUGHN:  Well, just having Pfeifer and Danielle, even though they're not the biggest post, they do play big and they have big hearts.  We knew we were going in at a disadvantage at height.  We still knew we could get the job done.  Even though they did have a height advantage, we still have some good runs on 'em at the same time. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT