DISCOVER BCS NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP GAME: ALABAMA v  NOTRE DAME
January 5, 2013
A.J. McCarron
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  AJ McCARRON:   I mean, I don't think there's a huge difference really, just because we kind of keep the same schedule and guidelines.   Coach always likes to keep everything the same.   I think we're pretty much on the same routine we have been the past two championships that I've been a part of.   Other than that, everything is really basically the same.  
   
 Q.   Amari Cooper has done a great job stepping up.   As a freshman, how much have you been impressed with his ability?  
AJ McCARRON:   Coop makes a lot of big plays for us.   He allows us to spread the ball around the field, get it in‑‑ not always his hands, but he takes the pressure off our other guys and allows them to be one‑on‑one opportunities and a chance to get the ball in their hands early in the game.   
You know, he's done a lot for our offense this year.   I'm very, very proud of him.   His hard work definitely shows off.   
   
 Q.   Is the scrutiny something you never really understand until you've done it?   And how long a process was that for you?  
AJ McCARRON:   Yeah, definitely you'll never understand it until you do it, I assure you of that.   But I mean, I guess the whole being raised in the State of Alabama and my parents being Alabama fans, growing up I got to see all that first hand.   So I learned probably a lot faster than every other quarterback that comes in here.   
   
 Q.   Are you aware of the historical nature of this match‑up?  
AJ McCARRON:   Well, I never‑‑ I don't know anything about this match‑up.   I was never an Alabama fan growing up, so I can't answer that.   I couldn't tell you one bit.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
AJ McCARRON:   It's pretty amazing.   But we've got to finish off strong come Monday.   It'll definitely be a great accomplishment for these seniors, the senior class, a special class.   It's the best group of seniors I've been a part of since I've been here.   I know how much hard work everybody put in this summer, so it'll definitely be a great way to send them off.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
AJ McCARRON:   They're a great defense.   You know, they make a lot of big plays.   They're big up front.   They do a really good job of trying to disguise certain things.   But I think Coach has taught us pretty well it's never about the other team.   The mindset you take into the game, the things you do.   I think if we go out there and play the way we're capable of playing, we'll be fine.   
   
 Q.   How has your experience from last year helped you this year?   
AJ McCARRON:   Well, I mean, media thing is just a media thing.   You've still got to go out there and play the game.   It doesn't really matter what everybody says.   I don't pay attention to it.   
   
 Q.   Is there an advantage to teams having been through this before, or does it matter?  
AJ McCARRON:   I don't think it matters.   It's a new year, a new game.   I think it's all about the mindset.   I think that's the biggest thing in bowl games, the mindset.  
   
 Q.   You've been through the pressure of a National Championship game, is there anything you can draw from that?   
AJ McCARRON:   I mean, I think it's the media that makes it‑‑ the game so much bigger.   Me personally, I think it's just another game.   Yeah, you're playing for a National Championship, but it's another football game.   You know, the field is still 53 yards wide, 100 yards long.   Still got to put the ball in the end zone to win the game.   I don't really pay too much attention to the title of the game, I guess.   
   
 Q.   When you say we can never grasp what a quarterback at Alabama has to go through, can you give one example?  
AJ McCARRON:   Just the pressure that you're always under.   
   
 Q.   From the media or‑‑ what's the pressure?   
AJ McCARRON:   I mean, you feel pressure just playing in the State of Alabama.   It's nothing big, but I mean, our fans want to win, we want to win, and it's always not the best when we don't win.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
AJ McCARRON:   Yeah, I definitely saw it in the spring.   I knew TJ in high school, so I knew what type of player he was.   But you could definitely see it in certain freshmen that come in during the springtime.   You can tell what type of players they're going to be.   Everybody goes through a learning process, it's just some go through it faster than others.   Those guys have played their role very well this year, and they've helped us tremendously.   
   
 Q.   How much do you think experience will help you and your team come Monday?   
AJ McCARRON:   Like I told them, I don't think the experience of being here helps, really.   It's a new year.   It's a new game.   I mean, I think it's all about the mindset you take into the game.   I think that's the biggest thing about bowl games is mindset.   Some teams are pumped to play certain bowl games and some teams aren't, and I think it shows.   But it's such a long layoff from our last game that I think the team that has the best mindset is the most prepared in the end.   
   
 Q.   You brought a lot of shoes with you.   How many?  
AJ McCARRON:   Probably 30, somewhere in there.  
   
 Q.   Why 30?  
AJ McCARRON:   I just like to always change or match something.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
AJ McCARRON:   I think it's having strong friends around you, great teammates, great coaching staff, parents that have raised you the right way with the right mindset.   I've never been one to pay attention to what anybody says.   I kind of do my own thing.   I just kind of be myself.   I never let what anybody thinks about me or anything like that get to me.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
AJ McCARRON:   Probably only a couple.   I never know what I'm going to wear, so I always bring shoes just to kind of match what I'm going to wear, so at nighttime I kind of just decide then.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT