BIG TEN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 7, 2008
Jori Davis
Amber Jackson
Felisha Legette-Jack
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  We have Head Coach Jack and Amber Jackson and Jori Davis.   
 Questions for the student athletes.   
  
  Q.  Amber, what happened at the end, the game kind of got away from you?   
 AMBER JACKSON:  They went on a run on their own.  We couldn't answer back.  We didn't make any shots, didn't capitalize on the key opportunities and it got away from us.   
  
  Q.  Amber, Jori, it was pretty physical down low, pretty even game on rebounds.  What were you thinking there coming into the second half?  A lot of people banging around, did that change how you approach the game at all?   
 AMBER JACKSON:  Big Ten, it's very physical inside just like any other game.  Championship game, means a lot more.  But in terms of the physicality of it all, we knew it was going to be that way.  In the second half we just knew we had to get tough, work hard and go after everything and hopefully it would come out in our favor.   
  
  Q.  This is for Jori or Amber.  Can you talk about how difficult FahKara Malone made it potentially for you guys?   
 JORI DAVIS:  She's pretty quick.  When she comes off the double screen, it's pretty hard to read if she's going to go because she has a good hesitation move.  She's a good overall player.  But I think we did an okay job.  But she still found a way to score.   
  
  Q.  This is for both you guys.  Jori, this is your first exposure to the Big Ten tournament.  But I guess it's Amber's too.  Talk about thoughts for next year.  Does this leave a sour taste in your mouth; you just want come back here and go nuts next year?   
 AMBER JACKSON:  Very sour.  We're a good team.  We're going to get better.  It was a long season.  We're young, but this definitely put some fire under us to take everything more serious and know that we never want to feel this way again.  We definitely weren't expecting to go out in the quarter finals.  We were going to win it.   
 That was what we wanted to do.  That's what we thought we were going to do.  It didn't turn out that way.  It's going to be all about getting better.  So this doesn't happen again.   
 JORI DAVIS:  Yeah, as far as it being my first Big Ten, I never looked at it as the Big Ten.  I just looked at it as another chance to win another game and get to the NCAAs and we're just going to come back stronger.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you, ladies.   
 Questions for Coach Jack.   
  
  Q.  Coach, just talk a little bit about what happened there in the 13-0 run there at the end.   
 COACH FELISHA LEGETTE-JACK:  They could put the ball in the hole and we couldn't.  FahKara Malone is a fantastic player.  She's been injured all season.  That's what's been holding her back a little bit.  Now that she's healthy we see how good she is, not just for Purdue but for the Big Ten conference.  So it's really good to see great players shine on the stage like this.  And even if they're not your players you get really excited for her ability to be great on the big stage.   
  
  Q.  The way this tournament is set up it's going to be tough for one team to have to play the day before when the other one doesn't.  You don't play back-to-backs throughout the regular season.  Did fatigue set in the last five minutes?   
 COACH FELISHA LEGETTE-JACK:  No, not at all.  I was really excited the fact that we did play.  We brought in eight new people on our team for the first time being in this atmosphere.  Five of them never been to Conseco Fieldhouse.  So I'm really excited that we did play so we can get our kinks out.  And we held them.  We played a great game for 35 minutes.  And after that Purdue took it to another level and we just couldn't.   
 It wasn't because of fatigue.  To be honest, they just played better than us.   
  
  Q.  Coach, talk about the steals for a minute.  It's been a strong point for you guys all year.  Talk about how much the steal really deflates like an offensive possession against you rather than as opposed to like a missed shot?   
 COACH FELISHA LEGETTE-JACK:  They stole it.  We stole it.  We stole it 10 times.  They stole it eight times.  They stole it 13 times.  But FahKara got the key steals and that definitely takes a little zap out of you.  And I think that we were running around the perimeter too long and we never tried to attack the basket the way we normally do.   
 Sometimes you just gotta take, get an offensive foul but you've got to impose your.  We certainly didn't impose ourselves on their defense in the last five, seven minutes.   
  
  Q.  Coach, your 18-14 finish record in the Big Ten.  You've got some good quality wins on your schedule.  You went to the NIT last year.  Is that something you're thinking at all about right now?   
 COACH FELISHA LEGETTE-JACK:  I hope that we could be considered for post season, because I really think this team can value from a post season experience, certainly know what's at stake.  But we'd welcome any opportunity to play in post season for this young team to get more experience.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT