ROLAND GARROS
September 30, 2020
Anna Schmiedlova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. SCHMIEDLOVA/V. Azarenka
6-2, 6-2
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
Q. First of all, talk about the scary fall you took early in the second set.  Did your mind flash anywhere, given everything that's happened, the knee surgeries, a bit of a stressful moment?
ANNA SCHMIEDLOVA:   Yeah, definitely it was stressful moment.  I was little bit in the shock because it was kind of scary.  I think it was really hard.  I sometimes fell on that knee, it's the knee I had surgery on, so it's never easy.  I started to think about it.
But, well, when I have the adrenaline and everything, I wanted to fight and win, then I didn't feel it.  I hope I won't feel any pain tomorrow.  We will see.
Q. You waited a long time for a Grand Slam win.  You lost 12 first rounds in a row, sure you don't want to be reminded.  You've beaten Venus and Victoria.  How would you explain the return to form?
ANNA SCHMIEDLOVA:   Well, especially here in Paris, I'm extremely happy because it's my favorite Grand Slam and favorite tournament of the year.  I always play good here.  I had many chances in last couple of years.  I had match points or really close matches.  I always play good here, just didn't close it.
I always thought that one year it has to come.  I'm happy that this year I am in the third round.  I'm extremely happy.  Especially when I won against such great players, I have big respect for both of them.  I never played against Vika before.  I watch her many times in the TV, even when I was not on the tour.  When I was younger, I watched many of her matches.
I think she's great player.  She played really well in US Open.  I was little bit scared before the match.  But I started well, and I'm really happy how I manage to play all match.
Q. You played in the third round at Roland Garros six years ago.  Tell us what you think the differences are in yourself as a player and person?
ANNA SCHMIEDLOVA:   Well, it's a good question.  I think I've changed a lot.  I am much more experienced.  Well, before it was little bit easier because I had nothing to lose.  I was really young.  I didn't know a lot about tennis or how is it work.  I was just playing, felt no pressure or anything.  I was playing very well before.
Right now I had so much more experiences.  I played so many smaller tournaments, bigger tournaments all around the world.  I lost really tough matches.
I had knee surgery.  Was really difficult years.  I think I did everything I could to be back here.  I'm very happy that it came, especially this year.
Q. At the US Open and over the summer we saw Vika go from having a long losing streak to then she couldn't lose.  Here you've come through a bit of a slam drought, you get two very big wins.  What does that say about this sport, about being a professional tennis player, even when everybody else is doubting you a little bit, to continue to believe on any given day things can turn around?
ANNA SCHMIEDLOVA:   Well, it's very difficult to believe in that.  You have to work on yourself.  As you said, every day is different.  You just need to stay humble, work hard, hope that it will come one day.  I don't know.
I wish I would know how it works.  As I said, I did everything I could.  I practice a lot.  I work on myself mentally because it's not easy.  I'm not really confident player or something.  I need to be more confident, more positive.  When I lose a lot of matches, it's not easy for me.  I know it's not easy for everyone.  But I lose all my confidence.
So for me it's very important to be mentally tough and to, I don't know, just try to be better every day and every week.  Sometimes it's not a good part of the year, sometimes it's better.  When you have the chance, then you have to...  You always get a chance, at least sometimes, so you always have to try to do your best.
Q. Did you ever have some help in your difficult times from the other two Slovak players which are the most known, probably Cibulkova and Hantuchova?  Do you have a relationship with them or not?  In Fed Cup I saw you playing unbelievably well.  I was surprised you didn't do so well later on.
ANNA SCHMIEDLOVA:   Yeah, this year the Fed Cup was probably my favorite weekend of my life kind of.  I played really well.  It was my dream to play for the country and to play well.
I think we help each other a lot in Slovakia among players.  Mostly I'm really good friends with Magda Rybarikova, Jana Cepelova.  The other players, they are my very, very good friends.  Also with Viki Kuzmova.  She's playing here.
Cibulkova and Hantuchova, they are little bit older, and I didn't meet them a lot before.  They are really experience, and they were great players.  I have big respect for them.  I just don't meet them so often.
Q. What would you say you were most impressed about your game?  Is there one stroke for you that's working really well?
ANNA SCHMIEDLOVA:   I think for me it's very important to move well and to don't do a lot of unforced errors, just to put everything in, run a lot.  But also that's my game, but I also need to play a little bit more aggressive, brave in the difficult moments.  That was very difficult for me before because I was playing too defensive.  Now I'm trying to play a little bit more offensive.  I'm glad that it worked today.
Q. You'll play an Argentinian qualifier, Nadia Podoroska, for a spot in the round of 16.  Do you know anything about her?  What do you expect in that match?
ANNA SCHMIEDLOVA:   I don't remember playing against her, but I know her little bit.  She's really good clay player.  It will be very different than matches before.  These two matches I had nothing to lose.  I played big court.  I was doing my best.
Now I just need to be relaxed and play my game, and we'll see how it goes.  She has to play really well here because she's in third round.  It definitely won't be easy at all.  She's a really good player.  I will fight and I will do my best, but I don't want to feel any pressure at all.
Q. You mentioned your confidence is sometimes difficult for you to have.  Have you ever worked with a psychologist?
ANNA SCHMIEDLOVA:   Well, I tried it couple of times with different people, but I never found anyone that would kind of fit me, that I felt some help.  I have many great people that I can talk to, that I talk about my troubles, my confidence.  They are helping me.  But not really anyone from psychology.
I tried it before.  I just try to work on myself, read books about being mentally tough.  I don't know.  I hope I will learn it by myself or maybe I will find someone better.  For me, I think it's the most important part.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT