AT&T BYRON NELSON
May 20, 2018
J.J. Spaun
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  J.J. a great final round, your first sub-70 round on Sunday since January.  How good does it get to get it going on the week?  
J.J. SPAUN: Feels great especially on Sundays where all chips are in the pile and it's where it counts and to shoot something like 63, I mean definitely under 70.  So, something like that goes a long way.   
 Q.  Rolling it into next week, are you one of those guys that will keep the momentum the following week at Colonial or kind of see every week as its own entity?  
J.J. SPAUN: I feel like when I get some momentum I can kind of keep the ball going and play hot as long as I can.  Look at my past history on Tour, it's kind of like that.  So, I think Colonial is good for me.  You don't have to bomb it.   
Kind of plotting your way around the course.  If I can kind of do what I did this week, I mean hopefully I'll be pretty close.   
 Q.  J.J., nicely done.  Worse case Top-5 finish.  Your third Top-10 of the year, 55th in FedExCup Points.  
 Earlier this year you talked about improving, improving.  You're doing it.  What's been the key for this week?   
J.J. SPAUN: I finally have gotten past this injury that I've been kind of been -- it's been just in the back of my head the last two, three months and I kind of let that go and kind of swinging how I normally do and hitting lots and lots of good shots and just having a lot of good birdie looks it seems like almost on ever hole I'm having some sort of look.   
So, you're obviously not going to make them all and I made most of them this week and it shows.   
 Q.  You made that 18 footer for par at 13 and you really gave yourself good birdie looks at the last five holes.  That was key for you, wasn't it?  
J.J. SPAUN: I think 13 was kind of the turning point in the round where it could have gone either way but that putt just to save par after being a foot into the brush off the tee was really -- you know, it could have been a momentum killer and having that 18 footer go in was kind of just the extra kick that I needed to finish off the round.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT