SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
November 4, 2017
J.J. Spaun
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  J.J., I know it's disappointing to shoot over par, but considering the conditions out there today, I thought you played extremely well.  
J.J. SPAUN: Yeah, I mean, I just was trying to get comfortable out there.  I was really uncomfortable considering the conditions and the position I was in.  But, yeah, I kind of kept things together.  Those last five holes were pretty brutal.  So to not really give too many shots back on those holes, yeah, it's not so bad as it looks.   
 Q.  I know a lot of players are making doubles, even higher than that.  The fact that you avoided that is a testament to the way your ball striking was today.  
J.J. SPAUN: Yeah, I was just trying to have stress-free pars.  That was crucial for today.  A couple three-putts out there.  But I hit a lot of greens and that was my goal to hit a lot of greens and if a couple fell, great.  If not, then just tap-in pars.   
 Q.  Great par save there at 18.  Talk about those last three holes.  It looked like someone really turned on the fan at 16 when you were playing your second set.  
J.J. SPAUN: Yeah, on my second shot on 16 I laid up.  But my third shot we had like 104 yards.  I hit pitching wedge, you know.  My pitching wedge flies 145.  So it shows just how gusty and windy it was.  At 17, too, it was almost like a guessing game with what club to hit.  I think you've got to hit it just perfectly in order to have a good result from that tee shot.  But it was definitely not easy.   
 Q.  You've talked all week about the fact that this is your second season now.  You're not a rookie anymore.  You wanted to put yourself in position.  You're in great position heading into Sunday tied for the lead.  
J.J. SPAUN: Yeah, that's all I could ever want is to have a chance on Sunday.  I'm looking forward to it.  I know it's not going to be easy.  But whatever happens, happens.  It's definitely a learning experience.  Hopefully I get it done.   
 Q.  J.J., a 2-over round, but given the conditions, how would you rate today?  
J.J. SPAUN: It was just a matter of keeping things together out there.  Even on paper it doesn't look good, it felt like I played around par for the conditions.  But you know, the biggest thing is still having a shot tomorrow.  So, that's all I could ask for.   
 Q.  What are the positives you draw from considering you're still in a great spot as a co-leader going into the final round?  
J.J. SPAUN: Yeah, those last three holes are not easy.  I mean, 30 to 40 into you, and downwind on 17.  Just to not give too many shots back.  I mean, you're thinking of pars, really.  You're not thinking about birdies.  So, just to kind of not let the wheels completely fall off coming in it kind of helps me have confidence for what could happen tomorrow.  And the par save on 18 was huge, and definitely did nicely on that.   
 Q.  Is it almost nice getting a day like today out of the way, considering where you're at with the final round?  
J.J. SPAUN: I would say so.  I mean, it's kind of unexpected.  You kind of see the forecast and see what the wind is going to be like.  But you just don't have a clue until it happens.  To get out of the way and feel like I played okay, and I feel like tomorrow should be a little easier conditions-wise.  But to get a win is never easy out here.   
 Q.  If the conditions are tomorrow like they were today, I think it's safe to say pretty much anything can happen?  
J.J. SPAUN: Oh, yeah, you could have someone that's 3-under and shoot 4 or 5 tomorrow.  If it's like this, I wouldn't be surprised.  It's just anyone's game.  Obviously, the pressure is on Sundays, in the final group, and that's kind of the toughest part.  So, you've just got to stay patient out there if it's going to be like this again.   
 Q.  Beau hasn't won on Tour, so you'll both be trying to get that done in tough conditions what is going to be the key, do you think?  Stay patient, get aggressive?  
J.J. SPAUN: Yeah, I mean, if it's conditions like this, it's just it boils down to not making mistakes.  You've got to be on point with your ball striking.  You've got to be on point with guessing the right yardages, considering the wind, whichever direction it's at.  So I think for whoever is in that group with us, it's just whoever, I think, stays patient and makes the least mistakes.   
 Q.  Considering that the conditions got worse as they went on, is it probably fair to say that you guys finally got the worst at the end?  
J.J. SPAUN: Yeah, when I got here around 10 -- no, a little before 10:00, it was nice.  There wasn't really a breath of wind.  Then I was putting and it was fine.  Then about half an hour before my tee time when I was heading over to the range, it started whipping up a little bit.  That's just how it is.  You deal with what you get.  Whether you get a good wave or a bad wave, you've just got to suck it up and deal with it.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible) you hit wedge?  
J.J. SPAUN: Yeah, and I had to fight it too.  If I would have hit it high, it would have been in the water.  So it's definitely a 40-yard wind.  It's blowing 40.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT