SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
November 2, 2017
J.J. Spaun
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  J.J., nice finish.  Birdied three of the last four, and that one there on 18 to shoot 5-under par.  How was the golf course playing out there today?  
J.J. SPAUN: It's playing good.  I mean, greens are in good shape.  The wind's kind of down for the moment, so it was kind of key to take advantage of the calm conditions and get some early looks out there.   
 Q.  What is the key to this golf course, do you think?  
J.J. SPAUN: I think it's a mixture of driving and putting.  That kind of goes hand in hand on any course.  But out here, if you're on the fairway, you're going to have some short irons on your hands.  Most of the par-4s are reachable from the fairways.  So, yeah, if you're in the fairway, you're going to have some good looks.  If you're rolling them in, it's pretty easy to get a good round out here.   
 Q.  You hit 15 of 18 greens out there, so your iron play was good.  Now in your second season on the PGA TOUR, last year's success, as you head into this season, what are your goals?  
J.J. SPAUN: Definitely to get in contention a little more.  I had a good West Coast Swing.  I was in contention a couple times out there, and kind of tailed off at the end of the season.  But my goal this year is to be in contention a lot more than twice.  We got 30-plus weeks to get that done.  Hopefully if I do get in that position, I can maybe come out with a W or something.   
 Q.  Just going off of that, what have you learned to help that scenario to get yourself in contention more throughout the season?  
J.J. SPAUN: I feel like it's more not trying to press so early on in a tournament.  You feel like as a rookie you've got to come out guns blazing, and you've got to tear it up right away.  Fortunately, today I kind of did that, but I wasn't forcing it.  It was just kind of staying patient.  I think experience learning the courses has a lot to do with it as well.  You kind of know how the courses play from being on them the year before.  So basically just learning from your mistakes.  That's, for me, been the biggest key.   
 Q.  Experience matters, basically, right?  So the year is one thing, but you build to get those building blocks every time?  
J.J. SPAUN: Exactly.  Whether it's experience of your first year or your experience of having a lead going into Sunday.  There's always building blocks for gaining experience, whether -- whatever the situation may be.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT