BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 3, 2017
J.J. Spaun
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. It was the ace I guess, hole No. 16.  Take me through the hole.  Pretty easy description but take me through the conditions and everything.
J.J. SPAUN: How far did we have?  I think it was 176 factored with the downhill altitude and everything, and I was a little into -- and so I just tried to kind of feather a little 6 in there.
And I mean the pin was probably in the most accessible location on the green.  And I just hit, put a really solid swing on it.  Contact was good.  It started about five yards left and just started falling right at the hole.
And once it landed on the green, it landed like I thought maybe it was going to be long.  But it landed like maybe 10, 15 feet short of the hole.
And then that's when like everyone said it was kind of quiet and I was quiet and was starting to think is it going closer to the hole or not.  And sure enough like 30 seconds later it just, perfect weight, just right in the cup and it just disappeared.
We all freaked out.  I didn't even know I won a car until Alan said you get that car over there sitting on the front of the hole.
Q. Nice bonus.
J.J. SPAUN: Awesome bonus.  Making a hole in one is pretty special.  Adding a nice little prize to it makes it that much sweeter.
Q. Sounds like the whole deal was like it was in slow motion when it was happening?
J.J. SPAUN: Yeah, I can still remember it obviously right now but it just -- it was such a good shot.  You never think of a hole in one while the shot, you know, is in the air.  But, yeah, just kind of happened in slow motion.  And when you see that white ball disappear, it's like a surreal moment.  You don't really believe it.  But it went in.
Q. How many is that for you in your career?
J.J. SPAUN: That is two on this tour -- not on this tour, but two on this tour and Web combined.  I had one last year on Web probably around the same time.  And then obviously this one and I had only one prior to that like anywhere, like practice rounds or anything and that was when I was like 11.  So I always -- I never get any hole in ones ever.  And then I had one last year and this one tops them all.
Q. Comment a little bit about your round as a hole for me?
J.J. SPAUN: I was playing pretty good.  I was hitting it well.  I started off with a nice birdie and then made bogey on 11.  But I gained momentum by making birdie on 13 and I don't know I was kind of like hanging in there, nothing special.  And then kind of the hole in one boosted everything and it would have been nice to make a few more putts but salvaged a couple of good pars and other than that it was a pretty solid round and the hole in one definitely helped.
Q. What car are you driving right now, what's your current car?
J.J. SPAUN: I drive an M4 right now.  So I think the model is an RCF.  It's like pretty much their M series of a Lexus.  It's nice to have a weekend car and a weekday car I guess now.
Q. What was the first car you ever drove?
J.J. SPAUN: My first car I ever drove was a 2004 Mazda 6.  I got it in 2008 when I was 16 or 17.  So I'm moving up the chain.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT