SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
November 2, 2017
Ryan Blaum
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Ryan Blaum, terrific 5-under par, 66 today.  All but one green is what you were able to hit today.  Talk a little bit about your round and a little bit about the conditions out there?  
J.J. SPAUN: Well, like you said, I guess I hit a lot of greens.  I didn't actually know that until you just said that.  The iron play was solid.  I put a new driver, a new epic driver in the bag this week, and it was working well off the tee.  Even when I was missing the fairway, I was only a few feet off and had a good look at the hole location, whatever it was.  I was missing it on the right side.   
So the first two holes, I missed the fairways, but hit it in there, 10, 15 feet and got the day off started well.   
 Q.  How important is it to get off to a great start in the fall part of this wraparound schedule?  
J.J. SPAUN: Well, you want to take advantage of any week.  Finishing in the top 125 last year, you're able to kind of make out your schedule how you want to.  It's the first time I've been able to do that ever in my life, on any tour that I've played.  So I'm looking forward to that, and being able to play hard, play as hard as I can.   
 Q.  You just sort of mentioned that you finally get to set your schedule.  How freeing up has that been to your game and to your psyche?  
J.J. SPAUN: To my psyche, yeah, that filters over to your game.  That's for sure.  I've played well last fall in the Webb category, and I finished number one in that category for the fall, which still didn't get into like Phoenix last year.  It's shaped up to be a little bit different story this year with how the numbers have sorted out.  But I'm looking forward to being able to -- you know, I think more so is that last year I played every golf course that I got into.   
So now I've gotten one-time around through all the courses.  I know which courses fit my game well and which ones maybe don't, and I can schedule it that way and not play eight or nine straight like I did a couple times.   
 Q.  Clearly, you feel like this is a place that you can play well and you've proven it?  
J.J. SPAUN: I like all the golf courses in the fall.  I think the fall schedule is great.  Even Mississippi being a smaller event last week, those greens are pure.  This golf course is fantastic.  And next week in Seattle, and after that, it's an awesome fall.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT