THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 9, 2017
Ryan Blaum
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Excellent playing today.  Just get some comments on your round.  
RYAN BLAUM: Well I started off the day with a pretty gnarly chip in on the first hole, where I was up against the collar and I had to really chop down on it and it just came out perfect and was dead center cup.   
All week I've been putting really, really well and so today I got the ball in the fairway, so I gave myself a lot more looks than I have the past few days and I continued to putt well.  It's nice to see the ball go in, because my putter's taken a little vacation for the last three months or so and it's working out pretty well this week.   
 Q.  Talk a little bit about possibly your first top-10 finish on the PGA TOUR.  I know that means a lot to you.  
RYAN BLAUM: Yeah, is it really?   
 Q.  I was thinking it was.  
RYAN BLAUM: You might be right.  I'm really good at finishing 11th.  I think last year on the WEB.COM I finished like 11th like three or four times.  But that's great, I mean, obviously that's the goal out here is to finish as high as you can.  I knew trying to win today was going to be pretty tough, it would have to be really something special, so grabbing like a top-5 or top-10 is next best thing.   
 Q.  Was that an all-Duke pairing?  
RYAN BLAUM: It was.   
 Q.  A little comfort level out there, right?  
RYAN BLAUM: Yeah, we didn't play together at Duke, Kevin's a little older than I am, but we know each other just through Duke and everything, but -- actually, we played a year together on the Hooter's Tour back in the day.  So it was very comfortable today.   
 Q.  Goals going forward the rest of the season?  
RYAN BLAUM: Keep doing what I'm doing game-wise.  It's been going in the right direction.  So just kind of do that and the results should take care of itself.  I think that if I keep putting the way I'm putting I think I'll be in contention soon.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT