CHINA OPEN
October 2, 2018
Jelena Ostapenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
WANG QIANG/J. Ostapenko   
6-0, 6-0   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  A tough day.  Talk about why it was difficult for you to find your level today.  I see you have a brace on your wrist, as well.  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: First of all, I didn't feel good with my left wrist.  I feel it already since a couple of weeks.  I thought it was going to be better.  Unfortunately today in the warmup, I already started to feel it.   
I thought maybe during the match, when I get warm, it will be better.  I was trying to play until the last point because I really don't like those retirements during the match.  Once you go on court, you probably have to complete the match.   
But I really couldn't play my game today because of the wrist.   
It is the way it is.   
 Q.  Obviously Wang Qiang had a home-court advantage.  Were you affected by the support from the crowd after losing the first set?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Not at all, no.  I love playing here in Beijing.  It was just the thing that I couldn't play 100% today.  I think my level was about maybe less than 50% unfortunately because of my wrist also.  It didn't really affect my game at all.   
 Q.  Do you know what the specifics about the wrist problem are?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: First, when I went to doctor, I had inflammation there.  I think now I'm taking very strong painkillers, which are not helping me.  I think now it can be something even more serious.  I'll need to go see doctor and to recover it.   
 Q.  I noticed that Glen wasn't with you here in Beijing.  Are you still working together?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, we're still working.  He just didn't come here, so that was the deal, yeah.   
 Q.  What is pleasing for you is that you're going to have a piece of a traditional Chinese dress, like those worn by players at the party.  Can you talk about your interest in Chinese culture and the clothes themselves.  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, I mean, the dress that I was wearing at the players party, I think is really nice.  Also when the saw the show of designer at the players party, I really liked his clothes.   
Then, yes, I got a dress as a gift.  That was really nice of the designer.  Yeah, I think I didn't go to Great Wall yet, but I hope I will still have some time to get into Chinese culture little bit.   
 Q.  When did the left wrist injury start?  Do you think you need to reassess the relationship with your coach?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: It started I think just like a week before Seoul.  In Seoul, it was much, much better because I went to see doctor, and I did some (indiscernible) when I was home.  After Seoul it got much worse.  Unfortunately now I'm feeling it a lot.  I couldn't really play my game because of my wrist also.   
With the coach, I'm continuing to work with Glen.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT