CHINA OPEN
September 29, 2018
Jelena Ostapenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  The match started off pretty slow in the first set.  How were you feeling initially when you were down?  What changed when you started taking back control?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Actually, at the beginning it was hard to get used to the conditions probably because we're playing in the evening, it's a little bit different.  The ball is flying also different from when it's during the day.  Then I think I got used to the game and started to play better.   
 Q.  In the first set you called your coach out, then things turned around a little bit.  What was some of the advice he gave you?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, just to change probably the tactics a little bit because he thought I was not doing the things that we spoke about before the match.  He kind of told me what to do, just cheered me up.   
 Q.  Can you give us more information about your current coach.  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: He's not here with me right now.  It's my hitting partner with me here.  My coach just didn't go with me to this tournament.  So I'm here with my mom, my hitting partner, fitness coach.   
 Q.  How are you feeling this late in the season physically and mentally?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, I feel great okay.  Just have a little problem with my left wrist, so I cannot really play that amazing my backhand.  I'm trying to recover and do everything possible to play because I really enjoy time here.  Still the season is not over.  We have couple of more tournaments.  Just trying to perform as good as I can.   
 Q.  As you proceed into the next rounds of the tournament, what are some things you're going to be focusing on?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Probably to be more consistent because today I felt like in the beginning I was not very consistent.  But the main thing, I was fighting, fighting against myself probably.  That's the hardest opponent.   
But, of course, my opponent today, she was playing pretty well.  I mean, yeah, at the beginning, as I said, I probably couldn't get used to the rhythm.  But then I got used to it.  At the end I think I was playing better.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT