U.S. OPEN
September 1, 2018
Jelena Ostapenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
M. SHARAPOVA/J. Ostapenko   
6-3, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What do you think went wrong today?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I think in general was not my day today.  Really, like, even comparing to last two matches, I think I didn't play that well, on that level today.  Of course, against Maria, it couldn't work like that.   
I had to play much better than I did today.   
 Q.  How was your preparation today?  Any different?  Off feeling coming into the match?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Actually, everything was pretty good before the match.  Yeah, but then I went on court, I think first game I played okay, then something like everything just went wrong way.  I mean, I was still trying, but I just made so many unforced errors.   
Yeah, it was just not my day today.   
 Q.  Maria has played 23 matches at night on Arthur Ashe and never lost.  Do you think it's a coincidence or something that makes her play well in this atmosphere?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, I think for her it was advantage because she already played two matches before, like she played two matches evening session.  For me, I played during the day.  I think here in New York, the conditions are very different when you play night match and when you play during the day, because it's warmer and the ball is flying much faster.   
Today was first match for me on evening session.  I just felt like was not my day today.   
 Q.  Is there something you try to do when you can't find your rhythm on the court?  What were you trying to do out there today?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, maybe it didn't look like, but I was just trying to put the ball in court.  Didn't really work.  Didn't go over the net or when I wanted to hit it, it went out.   
Yeah, I felt like I was serving better today than the other days, but then I think during the point my shots were not that good today.   
 Q.  Still two really good matches that you won.  Do you take any positives away from this?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, of course.  I won two tough matches.  I was fighting in those matches.  There is some positive things, of course.   
Today finished not the way I wanted.  I'm going to work hard and hopefully next time it will be better.   
 Q.  Did you have an idea before this tournament how you would spend the time in between the US Open and Asia or do you not know your plans?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I think in couple days I'm going to go back home, then prepare for the first tournament in Asia, for Seoul.   
 Q.  The first game of the match was really long.  Did that throw off your rhythm at all in the match?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, first game was a tricky game.  But then I served, like, two good serves on deuce.  I won that game.  Then, I mean, everything went just not my way.  I think, yeah, as I said, I was making so many unforced errors.  With that level, it was tough to beat Maria.   
 Q.  How do you estimate the hard court season, especially the Grand Slams, the Australian Open and US Open?  What was the difference between the last two years?  Do you feel you stepped forward on the hard courts?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, first two matches here, yes, I think.  I still made many unforced errors, but I think I fought and I played pretty well.  But as I said, today I didn't really play my game.  Yeah, it went wrong way.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT