U.S. OPEN
August 30, 2018
Jelena Ostapenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. OSTAPENKO/T. Townsend   
4-6, 6-3, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Tough one today.  How do you think you were able to calm yourself and focus and get the third set?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, I mean, was not easy match.  First of all, she was lefty.  She hits everything the opposite way.  If she was, like, using so much spin, which was a little bit different to get used to it.   
But then I think in first set, I was struggling a bit.  Then in the second and third set, I started to play more confident.  Actually, I started to play more aggressive and to hit more winners.  That helped me to win.   
 Q.  In the first couple of sets, it seemed like you weren't being as aggressive.  Is that accurate in terms of how you see that match?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, I was just trying to keep the ball in play more, go for the shots when I could.  Then it was not really working.  In the second set, I had to step in the court and take time away from her.  Then I started to hit more winners, yeah, win the match.   
 Q.  What did you make of the atmosphere on the court?  The crowd was very much for Taylor.  You seemed to be appreciative of them at the end of the match.  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Actually I didn't feel like the crowd was for her at all.  I felt like it was half and half because so many people were, like, cheering for me.  I heard so many times people saying my name.  Was surprise because I was playing against American player.   
But I enjoyed it a lot.   
 Q.  When you're talking to Glenn before the match, coming up for the tactics for the match, what was the idea going into it?  Did you have to adjust from the game plan you came in with?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I kind of knew how she was playing.  But I played her only once, and it was on grass court, totally different surface.  It was really hard to get something from that match because it's completely different conditions.   
But, I mean, I was expecting her to play this way.  I mean, she was moving really well today.  She was almost getting all the balls.  So I had to go for, like, crazy shots to make winners.   
 Q.  How do you feel physically, doubles today?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I'm actually feeling okay.  Not that bad actually.  I mean, of course it was a long day for me.  I will do everything to recover for my next match.  But I feel okay.   
 Q.  After a long match like that, playing doubles later, how instinctive is it for you to go from singles to doubles or sometimes do you wish you didn't have that?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I arranged to play doubles.  If I signed, I have to play doubles.  It's good also for practice, to practice some things in doubles.  It's another match.  It's still a match.  It's not a practice, it's a match.  You can use it as a practice also.   
 Q.  Anything you were trying to work on today in doubles from singles?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, yeah, I was trying to work on my return serve, do some volleys.   
 Q.  Two very different opponents that you could play next, Sorana or Maria Sharapova.  Talk through both those matches.  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Sorana is my best friend on tour.  I played her a couple of times.  She's also a very good player.  She can play very well, on a very high level.   
Maria, yeah, I played her in Rome this year.  It was a very long match.  I kind of know how she plays.  Just looking forward to the match.   
 Q.  Does that match in Rome, do you take things from that match?  What did you learn from that match against Maria and what can you take to the next match?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, you have to really play almost all the match on a very high level to win it.  She's a top player.  You have to focus a lot.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT