THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 10, 2018
Jelena Ostapenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. OSTAPENKO/D. Cibulkova
7-5, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Tough match, but you attacked, were aggressive.  Looked like you were going to go for it from the start.
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I knew I had to play aggressive because if not otherwise she had all the opportunities to go for winners.  I was just trying to go for the shots when I had to.
Of course, at the beginning I didn't start the match that well, but then I felt my game, played more confident.
Q. You played three matches in a row on Court 3, then moved to a different one today.  Did you feel a difference in the atmosphere?  Did it take time to get used to that?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Actually I think in the beginning was a little bit tough to get used to it because it's more open, the court.  Of course, it's much bigger.  So I needed some time to get used to it.  Maybe that's why I just started to play much better in the middle of first set.
Q. You've spoken in the past about being a bit of a thrill seeker.  Does your style of tennis reflect your personality in any way?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Can you repeat?
Q. Does your style of tennis reflect your aggression and the way you go for things?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, I think a little bit.  Because when I started to play tennis, I always had this opportunity to hit the ball pretty hard.  When I have opportunity in my matches, I'm just going for the winners.
Q. You've said in the past you idolized Serena Williams when you were a kid.  What are the things about Serena that have had the most impact on you?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I think her game and in general her personality because she has such a big personality.  Her game style probably similar to mine.  I mean, I always enjoyed watching her play and always learned some good things watching her.
Q. What do you make of what she's doing now?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: What do you mean?
Q. I don't mean today, but in her comeback after having a baby, still going with great competitive desire for more major titles.
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, she's such a talented player.  I think she can do anything.  It's not a surprise that after a baby she's back and she's playing great tennis again.
Q. You've spoken in the past about you're also rather good at ballroom dancing.  Do you really think that has helped you in playing tennis with the balance and composure?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Actually, yeah, I think so.  I did ballroom dancing from five to 12.  I quit for some years, but now I'm doing it as a hobby.  I think it helps a lot because you have to be very coordinated to do it, and also those small steps, which are very useful in tennis.
Q. How often do you get a chance to do it?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: When I'm home, I'm doing it a couple times a week.
Q. What's your best dance?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: It's probably samba.
Q. Do you feel as a sportswoman in front of an audience that you have a duty to entertain?  You're probably one of the most explosive players on the tour.
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Actually I think so because there is so many fans that, for example, they always make pictures of my faces.  They enjoy so much watching those pictures.  Just in general I'm very emotional person.  On court you can see it sometimes.  I think the crowd enjoys it.
Q. It will be the first time you've met Angelique Kerber.  Your thoughts?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Of course, she's great player.  It's going to be a battle.  It's going to be a tough match.  But I'm going to prepare well for it, going to be probably long rallies.  I have to be very confident, aggressive, and consistent.
Q. So many seeds going out, it's a very open competition, isn't it?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, I mean, there were many upsets, of course.  There is still some great players left in the draw.  It's never easy.  Yeah, it is as it is.
Q. Do you remember the last time you played a Grand Slam -- you seem quite relaxed here -- but feeling this relaxed at a major?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Actually not really.  I think it's maybe one of a couple of times that I feel really, like, I don't feel any pressure.  I'm just going out there and enjoying it.  Probably because at the French Open a couple weeks ago I had so much pressure.  It's now all gone.  I'm just enjoying the moment.
Q. Is it more fun this way?  Seems like you're in a pretty good mood.
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Of course, because you try to enjoy.  You play on a big court, in a great place, on grass, which is one of my favorite surfaces.  It's just so much fun.
Q. Does your coach ever tell you to put any limits on your aggression, rein back in any way?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: You mean in my game?
Q. Yes.
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Actually he wants me to go for the shots.  He doesn't mind if I miss the shot, but I go for the next one.
Q. Your dad was a professional footballer, is that correct?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yes.  He used to play football.
Q. Tell us a bit more.  What position did he play?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: He was a goalkeeper actually.  He was playing in quite a good team in Ukraine.  But I think he stopped at around the age of 18 or 19.
Q. Have you followed the interest in the World Cup?  Has it made you a passionate football fan?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Actually I'm not a big football fan.  But this World Cup I'm following a little bit.  I saw couple of matches, couple of great matches.  I enjoyed it.
Q. Any team you're keen on?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Unfortunately Latvia is not in there.  I was actually rooting for Portugal.  Now it's out.  Spain is out as well.  I think England has a good chances to win it.
Q. Great answer.
JELENA OSTAPENKO: (Smiling.)
Q. What aspects of the history, tradition, and atmosphere of Wimbledon are most pleasing and interesting to you?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I think first of all that we are playing all in white.  I think it's great.  It looks great on court.  Of course those two colors, green and purple, which are I think Wimbledon colors.
The third probably strawberries and cream because everybody is eating so much strawberries and cream, and it's really tasty here.
Q. What does the history of Wimbledon mean to you?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: If I'm not wrong, I think it's the oldest Grand Slam.  It has so much history, of course.  It's very special.  It's very different Grand Slam comparing to any other.
Q. Do you think the fact that you are a Grand Slam champion already, losing the pressure from Paris, going into this semifinal, does it feel different because you already have a slam?  It's not maybe as big of a deal.  Does that make sense?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Of course, it's a big advantage that I have already a Grand Slam in my pocket because I had this, like, opportunity to play those big matches already.  But here is a completely different surface, different Grand Slam, all different.
I mean, I have all this motivation to just win another one.
Q. How would you describe your level of confidence and belief right now?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Actually I think it's on a high level because I haven't drop a set here yet.  And I was fighting.  Of course I was yesterday 2-5 down, today 4-5 down, and I still won the set.  I think from that I gain even more confidence.
Q. You seem to get quite frustrated when you make an error.  Is that common?  Was it just today?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, today there were a couple of times I was disappointed because I think I was rushing a little bit too much.  I went for the shots that I shouldn't.  That's why probably I was a bit frustrated.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT