THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 9, 2018
Jelena Ostapenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. OSTAPENKO/A. Sasnovich   
7-6, 6-0   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How would you describe the first seven games of that match?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: First seven games?  Yeah, I kind of came into the match, I think the opponent played quite well in the beginning.  I couldn't get used to the rhythm.  But then slowly I got used to the rhythm, started to feel my game.  I think at the end I finished really confident.   
 Q.  You were the junior champion here.  Can you talk about how that's helped with the transition, and what benefits, if any, it's had for you this year.  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, of course it's great memories for me to come back here because I won in juniors obviously.  Also played in semifinals in mixed doubles here.   
Yeah, I think it's great when you win a Grand Slam in juniors, you're ready to play in women's tennis.  Especially here on grass for me it's just a very special place to be.   
 Q.  You get a code violation, you come back and turn everything around, go on to win.  What happened?  How did you react to the violation?  You talked to the umpire.  Can you walk us through that?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Actually, I didn't even understand for what it was given because I didn't really hear anybody saying anything.  Probably somebody from the crowd said something.  But I didn't hear anyone from my team saying anything.  That's why I spoke to the chair umpire.   
Actually that code violation made me even more motivated and angry, so I just started to play better.   
 Q.  Last year you came off the French Open and made the quarterfinals here.  Here you're into the quarterfinals.  How different does this feel compared to last year under the circumstances?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, last year I think that was already, like, this kind of winning, how you say, I was just keeping winning those matches, especially after French Open.   
But now not very successful French Open, and I just practiced really well before Eastbourne, then played Eastbourne and came here.  I think my game suits grass pretty well.  I really enjoy time here, just looking forward to my next match.   
 Q.  You've slipped under the radar a little bit.  I think this is the first time you've been in the main interview room.  Have you felt that, too?  You haven't dropped a set.  Have you been able to slip under everybody's radar while all the other seeds are losing?  Is that how you felt this tournament?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Of course, there were so many upsets this year.  I'm just trying to focus more on myself.  Even today, I was down 5-2, I somehow managed and won the set.  I think it helps me even more, gives me even more confidence for the next matches.   
 Q.  There have been so many upsets.  What do you think about this tournament that has caused all of these upsets?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: First of all, I think first rounds are very tough to play for seeded players because they have, like, more pressure probably because everybody wants to win first round, to stay in the tournament.   
Then I think grass is, like, for somebody is a tricky surface.  I really like to play on grass.  I enjoy it so much.  But for some players, I think it's not their best surface.   
 Q.  You're not a new player, a Grand Slam champion.  With 10 seeds out and so much focus on Serena, it's almost like everybody is under the radar except Serena.  How would you describe your identity right now as a person and a player at this stage of your career?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, I mean, there are still good players in the draw.  I mean, everybody who went in the quarterfinals are good players.   
I'm just trying to focus more on myself, as I mentioned before, just try to play my game.   
 Q.  How would you describe your game and where you are as a person right now?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I think there is still many things I can still improve, be on a higher level.  But I think I'm playing a good level of tennis right now, feeling confident.   
 Q.  You're playing Domi next.  Talk a little bit about that.  She seemed particularly determined.  She's gone through the draw rather swiftly.  Talk about playing also against a player who has a point to prove maybe here.  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, I mean, I played her couple of times.  I kind of know how she plays.  Just going to prepare well for the match.  As I said, I'm going to try to focus more on my game, on myself, then I think anything can happen.   
 Q.  Do you feel you're swinging more freely this tournament?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Actually a little bit.  I'm, like, not like at the French Open because, I mean, I had all that pressure, now it's gone.  Finally it's gone.  Now it's another tournament, another great opportunity for me.   
Yeah, I'm just not afraid to miss.  I'm just going for the shots.  I think I'm serving very well this tournament.  In general, I think my level is much better than last Grand Slam.   
 Q.  People talk about defending champion loses in the first round, sometimes people talk about it like it's the end of the world, someone goes downhill.  You have another tournament, another Grand Slam in a couple weeks.  What is your emotional feeling after losing in the first round?  How quickly did you recover?  You seem very up and happy now.  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, I expected something like that can happen because I'm still very young, all that pressure that was on me before my first round.  I mean, it was quite big.  I just lost that match.  I tried to forget it as quick as possible.  I went back home.  I took a couple of days off, celebrated my birthday, then started to prepare for grass court season.   
Yeah, I think now I'm playing much better.   
 Q.  Did you feel some weight going off your shoulders after the French?  You answered.  This pressure, were you feeling it all year, or was it especially leading up to the French Open where you felt you needed to have this over?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I felt a little bit of pressure at the beginning of the year when I finished the year as a top-10 player.  For me was the first time.  Everything comes with experience.  Also at the French Open, of course, because I had to defend such a big title for the first time.   
But now it's all over.  I'm playing another tournament.  Just enjoying time here.   
 Q.  Were you expecting it to be that bad to have to defend a Grand Slam title?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, it's not like that bad.  It's, like, a lot of pressure because you want to do the same as you did the year before.  You're much more, like, nervous.  Yeah, you just want to play better.  But I struggled a little bit.   
 Q.  You said your level is better here than it was at the last Grand Slam.  How does it compare to when you won the French Open the year before?  How are you playing and hitting the ball compared to that time in 2017?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I think I'm probably playing kind of similar as the French Open last year.  But still I think grass is a bit better for my game because the rallies are not that long, especially if I'm serving well, there are no long rallies.  Like, I think it's much better for me.   
 Q.  You seem fairly calm during moments of pause during matches.  What is your approach to changeovers in terms of what you want to achieve mentally and physically?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: If I, for example, lost a point, I'm trying to forget it as quick as possible, just focus on another one.  If I win the point, I'm just trying to cheer myself up.  Yeah, I think that's helping me.   
 Q.  Is there anything you tell yourself specifically or anything that calms you down or keeps you focused?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I'm just trying, like, to kind of be calm.  As I said, if I lose the point, just forget it, just focus on the next one.   
 Q.  You spoke a moment ago about playing Cibulkova.  Specifically, how would you describe her style of game and how it matches up with yours?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I think she's also kind of aggressive player.  She's moving very well.  She has kind of good forehand, which I think for me her style kind of suits my game because I will feel the rhythm.   
Yeah, as I said, I will have to focus more on myself, just play my game, and we'll see what happens.   
 Q.  What were the keys when you played her before?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: It was long time ago, so I think I play better now.  It's going to be completely different match.  Of course, I'm going to get ready for it.  It's going to be a tough match.  Every match here is a tough match.  Just looking forward to it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT