ROLAND GARROS
May 25, 2018
Jelena Ostapenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  Can you describe your feelings, the emotions when you came back into Roland Garros for the first time following on from that win last year?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, I mean, of course the memories are great from here.  It's a very special place for me, winning the title last year.  Actually when I came, I practiced yesterday first day because I arrived on Wednesday, and I felt, like, really good here, to be back here.   
 Q.  This is just your third main draw here, I think, at Roland Garros.  Does it feel like that, that this is just your third go-around, or because you won it last year, does it feel a little bit more familiar and like home?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Honestly I haven't thought about it that it's only my third time main draw.  No, I mean, I'm feeling really good to be back here.  Of course it feels like home also, because, I mean, I won the title here, and spent the two weeks last year.  I mean, just feeling great to be here.   
 Q.  What is your confidence like after you've played on clay over the last month or so?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, I mean, I'm feeling good.  I had some good results also on clay and some good wins.  Just looking forward to my first match here.   
 Q.  How many times have you dreamt at night about that final from last year?  How many times have you replayed that match?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I think I actually saw it just a couple of times and, yeah, I mean, it's great memories and great feeling.   
 Q.  Yesterday you obviously were at the draw ceremony with Rafa and presented and also getting to the New Village and everything.  What was that evening like?  Obviously having a good time.  Looked like you had a good time, at least.  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, of course I had a good time.  And especially with Rafa, such a great champion and such a great player in person.  I mean, it's another great opportunity for me to make the draw and just to be there and just to have some great time.   
 Q.  The last 12 months, I'm wondering, are there a lot of moments or have there been where you thought, Oh, my gosh, I actually did win the French Open?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, actually when I won it last year, I realized maybe just a couple of months after that and then I had to get used to this new status that I'm a Grand Slam champion.  I mean, now, yeah, of course, I mean, it's great, this feeling.   
 Q.  What do you have to get used to when you say I had to get used to being a Grand Slam champion?  What did you have to get used to?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: People just expect more from you, and there is more attention from everybody.  And also from players' side, like every player you play wants to beat you.   
 Q.  Guillaume Cizeron and Gabriella Papadakis were there last night, the two ice dancers who were there last night.  Did you have any chance to chat at all?  Because you're pretty much into dancing and they are into dancing on ice.  Was there no real conversation between you guys?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Actually, I didn't even know that they were ice skaters there.  Yeah, I mean, I spoke to somebody there, but I don't know who they were.  I just know the people who were related to the French Open.   
 Q.  Two questions.  First one, now since we have two Latvians in the top 20 and Latvia making it to the playoffs in World Group, any impact it has had on tennis in Latvia in general?  Second question is:  I always see the name Alona.  Is that your nickname?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yes, Alona is my name, and my parents, when I was born my parents wanted to name me Alona but it was not Latvian name so they couldn't write it down as Alona so they chose a similar name, Jelena, which they wrote it down in passport.   
I mean, of course, since I won the French Open, all the kids are coming to tennis clubs and tennis clubs are always fully booked.  That's great to see some young kids and starting to play tennis.   
 Q.  On a scale of 1 to 10, where are the nerves right now as you're about to start, you know, to try to defend your title here?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, there are still a couple of days, and I'm not trying to think about it much now.  I know it's not going to be easy because I will have that pressure.  I'm just trying to do everything possible to be ready.   
 Q.  Did you feel at any point last year, during those two weeks did you feel pressure at any point?  It felt like you went into every match, set and a break down, who cares?  I'm still going to win it.  It felt like you were playing without anything to lose.  Did you feel that way last year or were you just playing?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, I don't think I was thinking about any of, like, about anything in the matches.  I was just trying to just play my game and after, like, match against Sam, I think it was a tough one, and then playing against Caroline from a set down, I think I got my confidence, and then I was just enjoying and playing my game.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT