MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAú
March 28, 2018
Jelena Ostapenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. OSTAPENKO/E. Svitolina
7-6, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You're hitting a lot of incredible winners today and also many unforced errors.  So this is part of your game plan before this match?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, before the match I knew that I have to be very aggressive, and when I had a chance, I was going for it.  Of course I was missing some because I was trying to play aggressive the whole match, but I think my winners are more than the unforced errors.
Q. So far you make the semifinal.  In Indian Wells,  you did not play really well, but in Miami you made the semifinals.  Did you expect you can have such a great performance here before the tournament?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: No.  I come to play in the tournament without any expectations.  I just play every match, the first round and match by match.  I just try to play my best, because every match is a tough match and I prepare really well for every match.
Q. In the second set you were up 6-2 in the tiebreaker, and it started slipping away.  Do any little teeny-tiny small thoughts get into your head at that point?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I think I was just rushing a little bit too much.  I wanted to hit winner from almost every position.  I think that I had to play a little bit smarter, but in general, I think that I was aggressive today helped me.
Q. Many years ago there was a French player named Yannick Noah, and he won the French Open very unexpectedly.  And he said afterwards he wanted to jump into the Seine, the river, because he couldn't handle the pressure and the expectations after that.  Over the last eight, nine months, what's the best thing that you have learned about yourself, and maybe what's the worst thing you have learned about yourself?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: The best thing is, like, how people treat you after you win.  Everybody is very nice to you, and also the good thing is that some tournaments I have, like, bye.  You start from the second round, so it makes your life a little bit easier.
But on the other side, also, not that many matches, like, if you have bye and then you lose the second round, you have only one match.  Otherwise you had to earn one match and win it.
Also the pressure that I'm top-10 player now, and of course everybody wants to beat me.
Q. You say that people are so nice to you.  What are some of the things that have been done for you?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, in general, like, the tournaments are nicer, like, how they treat you.  You play probably on bigger courts.  All these things.
Q. The conditions today were really tricky with the wind.  You still had a great match, great quality.  Do you get out of this thinking, oh, my game is really back at the level I want right now?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Actually, today wind was not that bad as it was against Petra, because it was very windy, like, the ball was just moving around.
But, yeah, I'm trying to be more consistent.  I think this tournament I'm playing more aggressive, which is helping me.  I'm not afraid to miss the ball.  So like today also I was more aggressive, and I think that helped me to win the match.
Q. It was funny to hear your coach telling you to hit the ball, be aggressive, because we all think that naturally that's what you like to do.  How come you have become maybe a bit more defensive than you should be this season?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I think maybe the other tournaments I was trying to, like, play more balls in the court and without any aggressivity.  But now I think I really go for the shot when I need to and I'm not afraid to risk.
Q. Do you think about what it would be like to go back to Paris and how it will be for you?  Do you ever just sort of dream about that moment again?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, of course it's a great place to be, and especially defending my title.  I think it's going to be very special.  Still have some tournaments before it, but I'm really looking forward to going there.
Q. How do you like the weather in sunny South Florida compared to where you grew up?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, of course it's very different because where I grew up, in winter, now it's still like minus, so it's a little bit different.
But so far I think the weather is good.  Is not that hot, not that humid like last couple of years.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT