BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS SINGAPORE
October 24, 2017
Jelena Ostapenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








V. WILLIAMS/J. Ostapenko
7-5, 6-7, 7-5
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Today really seemed like it came down to the serve.  Would you agree?  What do you make of the difference in the match today?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, I mean, I think I was playing good from the game, but serve wasn't really amazing today.
It's not like I didn't really feel it.  I was just a little bit tight in some moments.  When I had to serve, I didn't really serve.
Yeah, but I'm happy that I had a good fight until the last point.  Even she had the match point in the second set, I won it, and lost 7-5 in the third.
Q. You are the youngest player in Singapore while Venus is the oldest one.  Would you comment on her performance today?  What's your comment on Venus' performance today, especially she's the oldest player in these Finals.
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, I mean, she was playing good today.  She was serving well.  It was hard to break her, but I think I was returning pretty well today, better than serving.  Yeah, we had a very long match and some good rallies.
Q. How do you bounce back from this one?  Is this tougher than the first one?  You still have one more to go.
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, I mean, every match is tough match here, because all the players who got here, they play at very high level.  I mean, every match is going to be a tough match.
Q. Did you sense, as the third set was underway, that the crowd was really getting into it?  What did you make of that atmosphere?  It's the first three-setter of the tournament.
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, I mean, the fans, when I won the second set, they were really, like, they wanted me to win probably or because they were, like, saying much more times "Jelena."  So I enjoy to play out there.
Q. Do you look at this match as the one you lost or the one that she won?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, we both played -- as I said, I had some great rallies.  I mean, some moments of course I actually didn't go for the shots and I did a lot of unforced errors.  But I also did much more winners than her.
Q. You're known for being pretty expressive on the court.  After some of the double faults, you seemed to be pretty upset with yourself but you were able to shake it off so quickly.  What do you say to yourself in those moments to get calm and get ready for the next point?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Actually when I was Love-40 on my serve, I just didn't care anymore and I started to serve much better.  So I served five or four first serves straightaway.
Yeah, but when it was like 0-0 on my serve, then I didn't serve that well.
Q. Do you get more adapted to the court now?  Some players say the court is too slow.  And in the first round for both groups, all the winners are players have been in Singapore before.
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, yeah, the courts are very slow, I think.  That's why the rallies are so long.  We are playing on hard court, but we played almost three-and-a-half hours today, and we are both very aggressive players.  So I think the courts are pretty slow.
Q. How will you recover?  How will you spend the day off tomorrow?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, I mean, I'm just gonna practice a little bit and play one more match.  Just going to try to enjoy it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT