BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS SINGAPORE
October 22, 2017
Jelena Ostapenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
G. MUGURUZA/J. Ostapenko   
6-3, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Actually just your thoughts on the match.  You came on strong late in the second set, but unfortunately you fell short.  You must have been able to take some positives from that.  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, the way I played, I'm not very pleased with the match today because I was making a lot of unforced errors and couldn't really get used to the court and feel my game.  But I think I was serving pretty well today.   
 Q.  You talked about the difficulty with the court.  Now that you've played there already, do you think that can help you for your next match?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I think, yeah.  I mean, it would be great to warm up before the match also on center, but unfortunately today we couldn't.  Maybe those changes for the next match will help me.   
 Q.  It's not usually that often that you have such a quick turnaround after the loss.  With the format, you'll have to play two more matches.  How will you regroup and how will you prepare?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: The first match is always one of the toughest matches, and I think it's great opportunity to play two more matches.  If I play well those two matches, can still continue the tournament.   
 Q.  I assume you have never been in this position before.  Does it seem a little weird that not having a good result today but that you get to come back again?  Is it a kind of odd mindset for you?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah.  As I said already, it's a great opportunity to play more matches, and if I play well I can still continue the tournament.   
 Q.  You were talking about the unforced errors and things.  Did you feel that you were just mistiming the ball?  Was it that you were going for shots that maybe were not there?  What do you think was the reason why the balls weren't landing the way that you wanted them to?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I think especially in the first set I couldn't really get used to the court.  I was struggling a lot because the bounce is very different from the courts we play during the year.   
And second set I already got used to a little bit, and I was really close to make it 5-All and saving two match points, but I'm happy that I was fighting until the last point.   
 Q.  Did you have much time on that court at all during the practices and everything?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: If I hit there, or...   
 Q.  Yeah, how much practice time did you have on the court?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, not really a lot.  As I said, today unfortunately we couldn't warm up on that court because they had a match there.  Yeah, I just hit a couple of times.   
 Q.  There were still some really good shots today and the crowd seemed to really enjoy your style.  What did you make of the crowd and the atmosphere sort of being on the dark center court and all that?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, I really enjoy to play here in Singapore.  I think it's a great place to be.  With all the fans, they were supporting me a lot, and I was enjoying that.  I really like to play in front of a lot of people.  I think that's what athletes work for.   
 Q.  Just looking ahead, obviously playing Venus next, what do you take out of the match from Wimbledon or do you just not think about that match?  Are there positives to take out of that match going into this one, and what do you think might be the key?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, it was completely different conditions because grass is her favorite surface.  She really loves to play there.  But here the court is much more slower than there so the conditions are different.  I mean, I just have to try to be consistent.   
 Q.  You hit a lot of brilliant shots today.  You just talked about being consistent.  Sometimes do you ever struggle with the idea that because you hit these brilliant shots that sometimes maybe you should slow down and take more time, or that's just your style and it works for you?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, today I was making a lot of unforced errors from my backhand side that I usually don't miss that much, and I think it was probably because I couldn't really get used to the court and feel the bounce and was struggling a little bit with feeling my backhand today.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT