BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS SINGAPORE
October 21, 2017
Jelena Ostapenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  So how has Singapore been for you so far?  What were your expectations going into what even the pre-event was going to be like?  What's it been like for you?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, I mean, it's really nice here.  It's my first time at WTA Finals, and I'm really happy to be here to finish the year the Top 8.  Yeah, I'm enjoying it so far and looking forward to my first match.   
 Q.  Have you been surprised at all by kind of the hoopla, you know, all the parties and photo shoots and the interviews and all that?  Has that surprised you at all in terms of just this week?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, I expected something like that, because it's like top eight players of the year, so it should be something special.   
 Q.  Can you talk a little bit about are you still somewhat surprised at everything you have achieved this year, especially the French Open and stuff, and kind of has it been like a whirlwind for you?  Just talk a little bit about the year.  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, I think I had a great year, especially winning the French Open and getting here to the WTA Finals, winning the tournament in Seoul, so I think in general was a very good year for me.   
 Q.  What are your thoughts on the group you're in here?  Lots of big hitters.  Are you excited to compare a little bit to those players?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Can you repeat?   
 Q.  Your thoughts on the group you're in, like the White Group, because there are so many big hitters, like everybody is looking at this group like it's going to be interesting.  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, of course it's going to be interesting matches, but the good thing that is I played against all the players in my group, so I kind of know how they play, and I'm going to try to show my best.   
 Q.  That's your first time here.  Same for Caroline Garcia on singles, not on doubles.  Were you surprised about the good run she had and that she finally qualified for Singapore?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, she had great last two tournaments, winning two tournaments in a row, and I think she really deserves it, to be here.   
 Q.  Even at the French Open where you hit with so much courage and confidence, did that come from being young and something of an underdog?  How did what you achieve there boost your confidence for the rest of the season?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Can you repeat that?   
 Q.  What you achieved at the French Open, how did that boost your confidence for the rest of the season?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, I mean, it was a great tournament for me.  I was always aggressive player and trying to hit the ball hard if I have a chance, and I think there, especially the court and everything, it fitted me.  So I had a great result there.   
 Q.  You have gotten a chance to practice on the courts.  What do you make of the surface and the conditions?  Being indoors, as well?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, it's great to play indoors because you have no sun, no wind.  But the court I think is pretty slow.   
 Q.  But the game you play, is it particularly exciting to be indoors and not have to deal with the wind or the rain even with rain delays, anything like that?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, now we are probably more used to be indoors because now it's almost wintertime, so some tournaments are indoors, so, yeah, I think I probably like to play indoors.   
 Q.  You're playing the first game against Garbiñe Muguruza.  What do you think about that game?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, we played our last match two weeks ago, and it was a very good match.  Of course she's a great player.  She had a great season so far.  I'm just going to try to show my best.   
 Q.  What does being confident mean to you?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Sorry?   
 Q.  What does being confident mean to you, like, how have you built up your confidence?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, of course winning the matches, probably you start winning and then you try to keep winning matches and then you become more consistent.  That's how you gain your confidence.   
 Q.  I'm curious what you make of Singapore as a city, if you've had a chance to do anything fun or exciting since you have been here.  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Actually, not really because I just arrived like two, three days ago, and I was practicing.  Yeah, not really.  I hope I have a chance to see the city a little bit.   
 Q.  Did you have a lot of fun at the party last night?  Did you stay for some of the performances?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, it was a great time there.  I didn't stay so long, because I had practice today and I needed to be ready.  But, yeah, I enjoyed time there.   
 Q.  Going into this tournament, what is your biggest fear?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Sorry?   
 Q.  Like what is your biggest fear going into this tournament?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, I don't really think about it.  I'm just really happy to be here.  As I said, the top eight players of the year.  Just going to enjoy time here.   
 Q.  Congratulations.  May I know how to pronounce your nickname correctly?  I'm sorry, I really don't know the correct pronunciation.  Can you speak a little bit slower?  Thank you.  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: It's Aljona (smiling).   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT