WUHAN OPEN
September 29, 2017
Jelena Ostapenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. BARTY/J. Ostapenko   
6-3, 6-0   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How are you feeling?  You seemed to be struggling out there.  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, I mean, I'm not feeling really great now.  I mean, during the match I also was feeling pretty bad.  Even on the practice already I felt like I had no energy, and really, really tired because been playing so many matches these days.   
Yeah, couldn't show my best today, unfortunately, but...   
 Q.  Do you think it's just because you've played so many matches in the last two weeks?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, yeah, I played some great matches.  And also yesterday beating world No. 1, I think was also emotional win.   
Yesterday we finished quite late, so I didn't really have enough time to recover before today's match.  I was expecting something like that can happen, you know.   
 Q.  Do you think it would make a difference had you played the second match rather than the first match?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I was thinking today I'll have to play the same, late as yesterday.  Probably if I played later on, I think I would have recovered better because, as I said, we finished almost at midnight or 30 past midnight.  Yeah, if I went to sleep like at 3 a.m., you know, it's like not a lot of time to recover to go out the next day to practice already at 2 or 3 p.m.   
 Q.  Did you wake up knowing you were tired or did it start to hit you on the practice court?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: When I woke up, I was feeling fine.  Then I had lunch.  When I arrived to the site, I warmed up.  I was feeling still fine.   
But then I went for a practice and, yeah, I felt like I'm really, really tired.  I was thinking, Okay, maybe because I woke up pretty late, it's going to go away.  But then before the match, and during the match, I was really feeling like not my best day today.   
 Q.  You also called a medical for it looked like maybe your hand or wrist.  Is everything okay there?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: No, I actually felt very dizzy during the match.  I called the physio for that.  I mean, but there is not much they can do for that.   
Hopefully now I can recover and get ready for Beijing, because I was playing a lot of good matches these couple of weeks.   
 Q.  Have you had an opportunity to talk to Anabel after the match yet?  What did you talk about with respect to the match today?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Actually not yet.  I was just doing my things after the match, yeah, I mean.   
 Q.  I know you weren't at your best, but what did you make of Ash's performance tonight?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, for me it's hard to say because I wasn't playing my best, not even probably 50% of what I could.  As I said, I wasn't feeling great today.   
But, I mean, she was serving well, playing well, so...   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT