WUHAN OPEN
September 28, 2017
Jelena Ostapenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. OSTAPENKO/G. Muguruza   
1-6, 6-3, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How did you turn that match around after dropping the first set 6-1?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, I mean, it was quite tough because we had to wait so long because three matches took for ages today.   
She started really well the match.  I couldn't really get used to the rhythm.  She was hitting pretty hard.   
Then the second set I started to feel my game better and I started to play more aggressive.   
Yeah, third set I think I played very well.   
 Q.  She got the quick break in the third set.  It was that long medical timeout between.  Did it take you a little bit of time to find your game again with the time?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, I mean, I lost my serve, but then I was still fighting so much.  Was 2-0 for her.  Then I think I took my serve again, then I won, like, six games in a row.  That was like not deciding but very important game at 2-0.   
 Q.  Did you find there were certain patterns or tactics out there against her that really worked well for you?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, first set I think I really wasn't going for my shots.  Then in the second and third set I started to go for my shots, change the directions more.  I think it helped me pretty well.   
 Q.  You played nine sets in the past three rounds.  It's already past 12:00.  You need to play in the semifinal.  Are you worried about your energy because you play a lot in the past few rounds?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, I played a lot of matches last couple of days since Seoul.  But, I mean, I'm in that tournament kind of...  I think it's even better to play matches because you get used to, and you're more confident.   
But, yeah, will try to recover as fast as I can today and hopefully I can play good tomorrow.   
 Q.  How pleased are you that you came in from Seoul, winning the title, not very much time to prepare for this tournament, and you're back into another semifinal?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, I mean, sometimes it's actually even better when you don't have that much time to prepare.  Sometimes you come so many days before, you get prepared really well for the tournament, you go out and lose first round.   
When you come from another tournament, especially I won the tournament, I'm more confident.  I just came from there.  First match I was, Okay, how I'm going to do?  Just my best.  What happens, that happens.  Then I won, and now I'm in semifinal.   
 Q.  You'll play another young player, Ash Barty.  How well do you know her and what do you expect in that match?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I played against her this year in Rome.  I think she's a great player.  Still young.  Yeah, hopefully if I can show my best tomorrow, we'll have a good match.   
 Q.  You had a lot of Chinese fans cheering for you.  Many Chinese people like you not because you are the French Open champion, they like you because you have a very cute face.  They gave you a nickname in Chinese, like Auntie Neck.  What do you think of that?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: What does it mean, sorry?   
 Q.  Auntie Neck.  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, I really enjoy to play here in China.  It's second year coming here.  Yeah, I actually feel I have a lot of fans because when I play they support me a lot.  I hear my name a lot.   
Yeah, it's great to play here.   
 Q.  Does it feel extra nice to have beaten the No. 1 in the world, No. 1 seed here?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, I mean, of course.  It's the first time I beat the No. 1 in the world, hopefully not the last time.  Yeah today, I mean, I had no pressure because I'm playing a great player, No. 1.  I just went out there and tried to show my best and played very well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT