U.S. OPEN
September 2, 2017
Jelena Ostapenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. OSTAPENKO/D. Kasatkina
6-3, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Looked like you were not feeling well on the court.  Called out the trainer.  What was going on?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, I was not feeling 100% today, was not feeling good already at the beginning of the day.  Yeah, I couldn't give my 100% today, like not my best.
Yeah, I'm pretty disappointed.
Q. Do you know why you weren't feeling well?  Were you feeling, like, nauseous or sick?  What was your body feeling like?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, already before the tournament I had some problems like with the throat.  I had to take some antibiotics, but I somehow tried to avoid it and try to get ready for the tournament, but today I felt quite bad.
Q. How tough were the conditions, then, if you're already feeling under the weather and it's cold and windy?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, also yesterday was quite cold.  I think it was not very good for me, because the change of temperature and, yeah, all the conditions didn't really give me any advantages.
Q. You started well in the match in the first few games.  Did she do something that changed?  Did you just lose your rhythm or start to feel worse?  What do you think it was?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, yeah, I started well.  I was 3-0 up, and I think I missed one ball, and somehow the game changed, like, went the other way.  Of course I knew how she's gonna play against me.  I knew she's gonna make me play uncomfortable, and I was preparing for that.
But unfortunately, I couldn't give my best today.
Q. Will you head home after this or stay in New York for a couple of days?  What is the plan now?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, I'm still playing mixed doubles, so I have to play mixed doubles and then I'm going to go home and then (indiscernible).
Q. What's kind of the feeling?  You said you're obviously disappointed with the loss, but do you feel like this was kind of a bad-luck tournament that you were dealing with the illness?  Do you feel disappointed?  Regardless of the illness, you couldn't find your game?  How do you describe the disappointment?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, I mean, many things came together, and because the draw was very open, like, and I thought I can play, like, better and better every match.
But, yeah, as I said, today I was not feeling very well, so I couldn't really play my game.
Q. You and your opponent are friends?  If so, can you tell me a little bit more about that relationship?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I actually don't know her.  We just play the same tournaments from like the age of 10, 12.  I saw her many times, but I don't know her.
Q. A tough day for you today, obviously, but it's been quite a Grand Slam season for you with the French title and going into Wimbledon.  How would you summarize?  How would you consider your Grand Slam year?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, I mean, in general, I think it was not bad.  I made, like, third round here, third round Australian Open, winning the French Open and quarters at Wimbledon, so I think in general was good.  Of course, I expected to play better here, but unfortunately, couldn't give my best today.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT