BNP PARIBAS FED CUP: USA VS LATVIA
February 6, 2020
Captain Adrians Zguns
Jelena Ostapenko
Anastasija Sevastova
Diana Marcinkevica
Daniela Vismane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Question, please.   
 Q.  (Question about the venue.)  
ANASTASIJA SEVASTOVA: I think the venue is good. The courts are similar to last year what we had at home. They're treating us well, except for the rain. It's a bit cold. Yeah, we're enjoying it.   
CAPTAIN ZGUNS: I've been in Seattle the first time 15 years ago. It was raining then, so things are the same now.   
But, yeah, we're excited to be here representing our country. We're going to do our best.   
 Q.  (Question about first tie matchups.)  
ANASTASIJA SEVASTOVA: I can say for myself, I'm playing first match tomorrow. I'm good friends with Sofia. I know her well. We played in Brisbane this year actually, and also last year in Mallorca on grass.   
Yeah, it's going to be a tough match. We practiced also a lot together so we know each other well. Yeah, it's a bit different Fed Cup, I think, also from the atmosphere, different atmosphere like when you sit on the bench because there's team around. Yeah, it helps, too. Yeah, we look forward to it.   
JELENA OSTAPENKO: For me to play against Serena I think is a great opportunity to share the court with such a great player. She's done like so much for our sport. She was always my idol since I was growing up. Now to play against her, as I said, it's a great opportunity. I'm going to try to enjoy every moment.   
For me to represent my country, I'm always proud to represent my country and play for it. These couple weeks during the year are very special for me because we're not playing for ourselves, we are playing for our country and for the team. I'm just going to try to do my best and just to enjoy these couple weeks.   
 Q.  The U.S. team said playing for their country, how much difference it makes. You're always wearing the flag of your country. What is different and how are the levels of patriotism different in a Fed Cup than when you go to play a regular match?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, for me is like you know you're playing for your country so you have to do your best, you have to give everything you can that day. I mean, there are even some bad days, but you're just trying to show everything you can to help your team and your country to bring a good result.   
When you play for yourself, it's very different. You just lose a match and you lose a match. Here it's like only couple times a year, so you have to just show your best. You know you are doing it not for yourself but for your country.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT