ROLAND GARROS
June 10, 2017
Jelena Ostapenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. OSTAPENKO/S. Halep   
4-6, 6-4, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  Congratulations on your first title.  Last time in the press conference you said you focused on tennis seriously at the age of 15.  Could you tell us a little bit more about your beginning in the tennis?  Who motivated you?  Who inspired you?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, my mom was a tennis coach.  That's how I actually started to play tennis.   
I always liked it, and I enjoyed it.  I did also the ballroom dancing, so I had to choose one of them.  I enjoyed tennis more, and I just, I think, it was my sport (smiling).   
 Q.  How did the match feel different at all?  First Grand Slam final, different atmosphere?  Full, big stadium?  Loud?  Lots of support?  Was it all different for you or did it feel like a normal match?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, I knew I'm already in the final and I'm playing such a great player as Simona.  And I was losing 6-4, 3-0, and then in my mind I was just, I'm just going to enjoy the match, and I will try to fight until the last point.   
And then I stayed aggressive and the match turned my way.   
 Q.  How exactly does it feel to be down 3-Love in the second set in a Grand Slam final and how do you turn that around?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: As I said, I was just trying to enjoy the match and to fight for every point.   
 Q.  You come from a country that has no history in tennis.  It's your first professional title in Roland Garros.  It's just the same facts as Guga Kuerten 20 years ago, the day you were born.  How do you see the similarities, and what do you think can happen for you?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I think there are similarities because of course when I was born he won the first Roland Garros.  So I think it kind of maybe lucky, lucky number or something.  So, yeah.   
 Q.  Congratulations.  Tell us how it felt to lift the trophy.  It looked very heavy.  Tell us about your emotions now and what does it mean to you and everyone who supported you in your career so far.  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, I'm really happy to win here.  I think I'm still -- I still cannot believe it, because it was my dream and now it came true.  I think I'm going to only understand that in maybe couple of days or couple of weeks (smiling).   
 Q.  What was the conversation like with your mother the first time she saw you after you won?  What kind of stuff did she tell you?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: She was of course really happy, and I was really happy because she's of course the person always helping me and she is my mother.  She was really happy.   
 Q.  Have you always played tennis with the style you play now, the quick strike, the going for your shots all the time?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I think so, because I always had the possibility I could hit the ball really hard.  So that's why probably -- and if I have a chance to go for a shot, I'm trying, and it's quite helpful.   
 Q.  Was that from your mother?  Did she teach you to play that way?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I think nobody teached me.  It's just the way I play.  And also I think my character is like that.  So I want to really hit the ball (smiling).   
 Q.  Congrats.  When you were down 3-Love, you said that you just decided to enjoy yourself.  Could you talk a little bit more about that?  Did that mean you could just feel more freedom in your arm?  Could swing more freely?  There was just a lot less pressure on you?  Talk about that and how it affected your game.  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, I was just still trying to play very aggressive and to go for a shot when I had the possibility.   
I think Simona, maybe she felt a little bit nervous because she had a lot of pressure.  That also helped me.  But also in the deciding moments, I think I played pretty well in those games.  And was couple of deciding games and then the match turned the other way.   
 Q.  Can you tell us about Colombini who is your agent and is Italian, so he shared the win.  When did you meet him?  How he came out?  Why is he your agent after seven years?  And he was also with Del Potro, with Murray, and so on.  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, we're with Ugo for already seven years and is my agent and is helping me a lot.   
 Q.  Doing what?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Doing his job (smiling).   
 Q.  I have two quick questions.  You seem to never have fear on the court no matter what the situation.  Also, will this be a big thing in Latvia?  Do you expect a parade or will anything special happen for you?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Parade?  Actually, yeah, I think it's a quite bit deal in Latvia.  My match they were translating in the city center on big screen.  That's quite impressive.   
 Q.  Congratulations.  Pretty huge achievement.  How do you imagine your life changing after this?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, I'm really happy, but I still have to improve some things and to get better as player.  And so I will work hard to climb the ranking and to maybe win some more titles.   
 Q.  Were you at all nervous before the match?  Did you sleep okay last night?  You just looked like when you played that first game that you had no nerves at all.  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Actually, yeah, I slept very well.  I was not nervous yesterday and today also.  But before the match, five, ten minutes, I a little bit nervous.  But then when I went on court, I felt quite free.  But when I was losing second set, then I felt a little bit nervous.   
But then I felt I have nothing to lose, so I'm just going to enjoy the match and do my best.   
 Q.  Congratulations.  Could you recall the moment of the match point?  You hit amazing return winner.  So when you hit the ball, you immediately you know that it's going to in and you're going to win the title, or what was your process of realizing that you are going to win that match?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, as I said, I still cannot believe I won, I won the title, because my dream came true.  So, yeah, was just trying to go for shots when I could and match point.  And I was just, Okay, I have nothing to lose, I'm just going to hit winner.  Or if I miss, okay, I have another one.   
 Q.  So when you hit the ball, you know that it's going?  Or...  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, I hit quite a lot of winners from that ad court down the line, so I was trying to put it in, of course.   
 Q.  I was just wondering, up until today, when you're back home in Latvia, your home, can you walk around, people not knowing who you are?  I guess that might change now, but up until now, if you're just walking, shopping or something at home.  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I think I can still walk because I think the people who knew me before they will know me, but probably some other people will also know me.  But I think I can walk just in the city and be relaxed.  Nothing will happen (smiling).   
 Q.  You're a Junior Wimbledon champion.  I'm guessing you're looking forward to playing Wimbledon this year now.  Did you always think Wimbledon would be the first place you would have success or do you think you could win here?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, also here, because here, as I said, the clay is pretty fast and it fits me, these courts.  Yeah, if I play well, I think I can win, yeah.   
 Q.  And Wimbledon?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, Wimbledon of course.  I'm looking forward to Wimbledon because grass is one of my favorite surfaces.  In three weeks, I'm going to get ready for that.   
 Q.  You are now a Grand Slam champion.  Tell us a bit about your future ambitions and what you would like to achieve in the sport.  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Of course I would like to win probably all of the Grand Slams.  It's my goal, I think.  But I'm just going to try to work hard now and try to reach the high ranking.   
 Q.  Be honest.  When you're playing your game and you're hitting the ball that you want to hit the ball, is there anybody on tour that you think you cannot beat?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I think if I have really good day and I'm hitting really well, I think anything is possible (smiling).   
 Q.  You talk about your mother but also with Anabel Medina?  You have worked for a long time?  How did you meet?  Did she help you?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: We were working in one month since Stuttgart tournament, and we were working on some things.  And also she's very experienced.  She was helping me.  So, yeah, was really nice.   
 Q.  I think the biggest pro tournament you won before this was a $50,000 tournament in St. Petersburg; is that right?  ITF?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, I think so.  I was in the finals, like, three times.   
 Q.  Can you compare that tournament to Roland Garros, just the crowd, stadium, how many people were there?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Of course.   
 Q.  I'm asking how many people were there when you won in Russia?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Maybe 1,000, 2,000.  I don't think you can really compare it to here.  Here is amazing.  15,000 people watching and a lot of people are supporting me.  So I really enjoy time here.   
 Q.  Now everything is beautiful.  It's fantastic.  It's a dream coming true.  I'd like to know if there were moments in your life as a tennis pro or so that you were not so happy.  I mean, that you lost a match, you thought about maybe stopping to play or something.  Some bad moments?  There were some bad moments in your life and when?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Of course there were some bad moments when I was losing some matches, like, first round, first round.  But then I was, like, Okay, I still have to work and one day I think it will change.  And if I work hard, I will start winning.   
 Q.  So you really work hard?  When you say, I work hard, how many hours you work?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I don't know.  As everyone in tennis.  As normal tennis player.   
 Q.  More, less?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Two practices a day plus fitness practice.  Maybe five, six hours.   
 Q.  You're also a pretty good doubles player and you have had success with that in the past couple of months and weeks.  Do you think that's also helped you to sort of -- nothing can prepare for winning a Grand Slam, but has that helped you going into that final, having played well maybe in doubles finals and that sort of thing?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I think, yes, because sometimes when you lose singles and you have to stay for one week without matches and you still play some doubles, it's also a match and you can work on things like serve, return, volleys.  I think it helps, yeah.   
 Q.  Talking about what you have to work on your game now, you tried many shots, long shots.  You missed some.  Go back to practice now and study what you did wrong here?  What can you improve?  Do you think you have to work more tactically or keeping going to the strong forehands?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I think I can still improve my serve, my forehand.  And also sometimes I was making too many unforced errors.  So if I can reduce them, I think will be helpful.   
 Q.  If I heard correctly, your mother was saying that you had a trip here when you were young, around 10 years old.  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Right.   
 Q.  Did you come here to Roland Garros when you were younger?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: To play juniors.   
 Q.  Yes.  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Oh, just -- yeah, yeah, I came when I was maybe 12 just to see the museum and everything around.  I was really impressed.  I couldn't think I could play, like, here one day and even win this tournament.   
 Q.  But you said that you wanted to become a champion then and that Serena was one of your favorites?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, Serena was always, like, kind of my idol, because I really enjoyed watching her.  And she's like a great champion.  I think she's playing probably similar to my style, so she was my idol, yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT