ZHENGZHOU OPEN
September 10, 2019
Jelena Ostapenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. OSTAPENKO/You Xiaodi.   
6-3, 0-6, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  I notice you took a medical timeout in the second set. What happened?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I felt dizzy and look my head was spinning so I didn't really feel so well. I think that's probably like from traveling and jet lag and all together, because it's very difficult. And, yeah, I mean probably all together and tiredness and all that stuff, but I'm glad I managed to win today.   
 Q.  Actually today was your opponent's first WTA Premier main draw match. So how do you feel about her game?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I think she played pretty well today for her, like her ranking, first of all. I think she played well and of course it was not my best match, not my best performance, but it was also not easy because it was a little bit tricky conditions, like wind and all this stuff. And, yeah, but I think she played a good match for her.   
 Q.  You started to cooperate with your trainer several months ago. Do you see any positive effects since your cooperation?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean of course he has so much experience and he was working with the great players. The thing is like I'm not always working with him, I'm only working with him when we are at the big tournament and when I come to the academy. But I think the weeks that we were working I think it was very, very good.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Chinese.   
 Q.  Can you talk about your plan for this Asian season and your goal for this Asian season?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Actually, I'm only playing this tournament and then I'm going to Zhuhai, that's for sure, but after, I don't know. I'm not playing Wuhan because I didn't get there by my ranking, so -- and Beijing I'll play if I get a wildcard, so I hope I get a wildcard because it's a great tournament there. So I have like maximum three tournaments here in Asia.   
 Q.  How much are you looking forward to your next round? Your opponent is Sabalenka.  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, it's going to be a tough match, she's a great player and I'm just going to enjoy it because I think she's the favorite in that match, so I'm just going to enjoy it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT