ROLAND GARROS
June 4, 2017
Jelena Ostapenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. OSTAPENKO/S. Stosur
2-6, 6-2, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. Tell us a little bit about the match today.
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, at the beginning when I went on court I was actually very tight.  But Sam was playing a great match today, and at the beginning she played really good shots.  She was serving well, and I was a bit uncomfortable with the way she played.
But then I got a bit used to it and felt my confidence.  Then I played better.
Q. Now you are playing against Caroline Wozniacki.  Tell us a little bit about that match.
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, of course it's going to be a tough match because she's a great player, and I played her already two times this year.  Yeah, I'm just looking forward to it.
Q. You played her recently in Prague on the red clay, first time on red clay, and that was a third-set tiebreaker.  Did you see any of her matches here and what will be the key for you to go to the semis?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, she's playing good now.  I kind of know how to play against her.  I just have to stay aggressive and be consistent.  Just try to play my game.
Q. How do you see your chances against Wozniacki?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: What do you mean?  I mean, if I play my game, I always, I think I'm aggressive player, and if I play my game I have my day, I think I can play good and everything can happen.
Q. Until now, I only heard things that everybody would have said.  I'd like to hear something from you more original.  Can you try that?  Can you try to tell me, for instance, what do you feel being here?  How your life has changed since you became a good player?  If Wozniacki, for instance, was a sort of idol or not when she was No. 1 but everybody was criticizing because she was not winning Grand Slams?  Those kind of things that gives us some stories to write.
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, of course I really enjoy time here, and it's my first-ever Grand Slam quarterfinal.  I'm really looking forward to it.
When I was growing up, my idol was Serena, because I really like the way she played, and she's like a great champion.  So I was kind of following her the whole time.  When I was a child just always watching her matches.
Q. What about your country?  In your country there was someone you did like that you watched that's a good player, maybe between the men or I don't know?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Actually, yeah.  I think in 2014 Gulbis, he was playing really well, and that was actually his I think semifinal -- no, quarterfinal match.  He played unbelievable that year, and I really like the way he played, yeah.
Q. Your family, what is your background?  Someone played tennis, your father, mother, grandfather?  Where were you raised?  We want to know a little bit more.
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, my mom used to play tennis in Soviet Union, in a big country, before and my dad was a soccer player.
Q. Which team?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: He was playing in Ukraine for Ukrainian team.  I don't exactly know the name.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT