AEGON CLASSIC
June 16, 2016
Jelena Ostapenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. OSTAPENKO/P. Kvitova   
6-4, 4-6, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions or Jelena Ostapenko, please.   
 Q.  Great win.  How do you feel?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yes, it was a great match today.  After we stop, it was 3-3 in the second set.  Then she plays really well.   
In third set, I was losing 3-0, and I was happy to come back.   
 Q.  What do you think turned it around for you, especially after that delay?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I don't know, like, after losing second set, I was a little, like, disappointed because it could finish earlier.  But still I try to fight and play each point, because she's a really good player on grass.   
 Q.  It seemed like whatever she did, you had an answer for it.  How did you manage to have an answer for everything that she threw at you?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, I mean, I was just trying to stay consistent and play my game.  I had some breakpoints that I didn't use.   
But also, I mean, grass court is difficult because the bounce sometimes is not very good.   
 Q.  When she had breakpoints against you, did you feel the pressure or were you just focused on winning that point?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Most of breakpoint I think I won with good first serves.  One in third set, 4-3 for me, and she had advantage, she had a breakpoint, and then I hit second serve and come back.   
 Q.  Do you think the serve is crucial to your game?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: My serve?   
 Q.  Yes.  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, I think it was good serve today.   
 Q.  The rain break came halfway through the second set.  What are you telling yourself when you go back into the locker room to keep yourself going and motivated?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: When it was 3-3?   
 Q.  Yeah, when you're not out on court.  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: It's always tricky with the rain, I think.  I mean, but you cannot do anything against the weather.  So I was just trying to get back on court and play as good as I can, because, I mean, what you can do?   
 Q.  Did it feel you broke any momentum you had?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I think when it was 3-3, like in the second set, I was 3-0 down and then it was 3-3.  And then we start, I think it was not very good for me, but good for her because she went off court and she came back really focused and served really well that game.   
I think for me, it could be better if we stayed on court.   
 Q.  What do you do during the rain break to kill time?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: We didn't have so much time.  Just half an hour.  I just changed my clothes.  I was getting ready for the match.   
 Q.  Earlier in the week, what do like to do during the rain breaks?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Most of the days I was staying.  I was staying on court.  I hit indoors and I was waiting to hit outdoors.  Just staying here in the players lounge.   
 Q.  People will be looking at today's result and raising an eyebrow.  Do you think you can go far at Wimbledon?  Do you think this sets the marker?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, I mean, since juniors, I think I did well on grass.  It's first time here, but I really like it here.   
I think grass is my favorite surface, so I'm looking forward to two more tournaments.  I think I can do good on grass.   
 Q.  Do you think your game suits grass?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, I think so, because I have good serve and good backhand and forehand, so for grass, I think it's good.   
 Q.  Now that you've beaten Petra Kvitova twice, would you be happy to play her every week?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: No, I mean, I think on grass, she's one of the most dangerous opponents because she won twice Wimbledon.  I'm happy to win today.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT