QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 26, 2016
Jelena Ostapenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. OSTAPENKO/A. Petkovic
7-5, 1-0 (ret.)
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Jelena Ostapenko.
Q. Congratulations.  You're one match away from your first title.  How do you feel tonight?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, I feel really great.  But I don't feel -- I feel pity for Andrea that she couldn't finish the match.  I hope she recovers better.
After when she's in a good form, we can have a great match.
Q. Great fight back in the first set.  Would you term this as a dream run or did you ever think you would be in the final?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, I mean, I was trying to improve.  First, it was like second round of quallies, and I was just really happy that I got main draw.
On the first match, I was just trying to play my best tennis.  Match by match, I played better and better.
Q. When you were down 1-5, what exactly were you thinking?  The way you clawed your way back, was it your serve?  What was it that you thought you were lacking in?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I was just trying to stay consistent and to not miss easy balls, because she was playing amazing in the first set.  I was just trying to fight for every point and I think it helped me.
Q. How did you feel the atmosphere was out there today?  There was a group of people screaming out, Jelena, Jelena.  How did you feel about that?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, it was really amazing.  So many people were cheering for me.  It was like a really nice atmosphere on the court.  I felt, like, amazing.
Q. Do you like to play in front of a big crowd or do you prefer to play on smaller court which makes you more focused or it doesn't matter to you?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, it doesn't matter to me actually because I try to focus on the match during I play.
Q. Please describe your feeling.  You're in the final of a big event.  What does it feel like?  Does it feel real?  Does it feel like, Oh, yeah, good, I won?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, I feel great.
But as I said, I feel pity for Andrea that she couldn't finish the match.  That she had injury.  I hope she recovers and everything will be fine.
I feel great that I can play good this week and I reached the final.
Q. You're going to play your final against Carla Suarez Navarro, who is in great shape this week.  Have you been watching her games?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, I've been watching how she played this week.  She's playing really good this week.  I'm looking forward to play against her tomorrow.
Q. Will you play with the same confidence?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, I will try to show my best tennis.
Q. Can you speak about your match with Carla in Wimbledon two years ago.
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Was it two years ago?  It was last year I think.
THE MODERATOR: Yes, it was last year.
JELENA OSTAPENKO: It was on a grass court.  It was a great match for me because it was my first win against top ten, and grass is my favorite surface.  I felt really good there.
She playing really great this week.  It's going to be a tough match tomorrow.
Q. Sorry for keep asking kind of similar questions, but did you feel like you're getting in the final, so that it make, Well, I can't believe it or more like, Okay, I deserve it.  How do you feel?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, with every match here, I beat some players top ten, some Grand Slam champions, as well.  I get kind of confidence.  I can understand that I can also play on that level.
It's better for me because with every match I get more and more confident.
Q. Can I just clarify, tomorrow, is this your first WTA final?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: WTA final, it's second, but the first one premiere.  The first one was in Quebec City last year.
Q. Is tomorrow the biggest match of your career?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, probably, because it's the biggest tournament I played the final in.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT