QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 24, 2016
Jelena Ostapenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. OSTAPENKO/P. Kvitova
5-7, 6-2, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Jelena Ostapenko, please.
Q. So yesterday you said you played one of the best matches in your career, and today you beat a more experienced, more higher ranking player.  So how do you describe your feeling of today's match, your performance?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, I feel really great that I could play, like, also one of my best matches today.  It was really great, and, yeah, I'm really happy.
Q. So today's condition was quite tough today.  It was really windy.  How do you manage this condition?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, both of us are in the same situation.  Yeah, it was quite windy today.  I was surprised because on the center court, like these treatments are around, so I thought it's not going to be windy, but it was.  But somehow I managed it.
Q. You're going to play against Saisai, your next match will be against her.  How will you prepare this game, because she's one of the biggest surprises as well, just like you?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, she had, like, great wins this week.  And I played her in doubles in Australian Open this year, so I kind of know how she plays.  Hopefully we can have a great match.
Q. Can you speak about your pre-season with Anabel Medina in Valencia this year?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, it was really nice, like almost two weeks with her, and I liked it.
Q. So you started off pretty good.  You were leading.  And then she recovered.  She managed to come back and won first set.  So might be really tough situation for you.  What was your mindset going into second set and what kind of strategies, what did you talk to yourself?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, I was losing like set and 2-1.  And then it was 2-All.  One game she was, like, 40-Love up on her serve and I broke that game.  I think that was kind of deciding game in that set, because after, I won like eight games in a row.
Q. So between first set and second set, what did you do, talk to yourself?  Did you try to change something or did you just try to calm down?  What was your thought on that moment?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I was just trying to fight for every point and play smart, not like doing any stupid mistake.  Yeah, to play smart.
Q. Why are you playing some of your best matches of your career this week?  Is there any specific reason?  Any preparation?  Anything that you did differently recently?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I think because, like, I play against some of seeded players, they really great champions, all of them, like the last opponents, they are both Grand Slams champions.  And for me, it's nothing to lose.  I just try to show my best tennis.
Q. Most of the top seeds are out of the tournament.  Who do you see going very far until the final?  Do you see yourself reaching the final playing with that confidence?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, if I play my best tennis, I have chances to go further in the tournament.
Q. Petra said you remind her of a younger version of her, when she was like 16 --  sorry, 18 or 19 because you have kind of similar play style to Petra.  Very flat and fast, good at changing direction of shot.  Do you find any similarity in your game and Petra's game?
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, I think both of us are playing fast.  Before I really liked how she played.  So I was watching her matches when I was younger.  And when she won Wimbledon, I liked how she played so much.  And, yeah, I really happy I could win against her today.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT