QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 12, 2019
Jelena Ostapenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. OSTAPENKO/M. Buzarnescu   
6-1, 4-6, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You played Mihaela at this tournament last year.  What did you learn from maybe that match, and how did you get the match done today?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, I remember that match, and I think I was kind of rushing with my game a lot and I was making a lot of unforced errors.   
Of course today was very tough conditions.  It was very windy, especially for me coming from Fed Cup, playing indoors, first day playing outdoors.  I think the first set I played really well, but then something changed a little bit.  Yeah, but I managed to win it.   
 Q.  What adjustments do you make for conditions like this?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, I was just not honestly not trying to hit every ball so hard.  With the serves, I was trying to mix it up, because it was very hard to hit the ball when the ball was coming a little bit slower because the wind was like blowing it from one side to another.   
I mean, very same conditions, honestly, but it's for both of us, and I think the one who managed it better won the match.   
 Q.  Could you talk about your next opponent, Svitolina?  I think you played her twice and you won twice.  So do you think you'll be able to win over her again tomorrow the way you played today?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, first of all, I hope the wind is not going to be the same tomorrow as it was today because it was very tough to play.  Otherwise, I mean, she's very consistent player.  I will have to play on a very high level to beat her, of course.   
 Q.  You said just now that because of the conditions you had to not hit the ball so hard.  Is that difficult for you?  Because that's the basis of your game, really, isn't it?  You're hard hitting.  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, of course it's hard to do something that you're normally not used to do, but of course you always have to adjust to conditions.  Like, I understand if I'm going to hit every ball so hard, it's going to be tough to win the match because I will make a lot of unforced errors.   
The same with serving.  Sometimes I was serving like harder and then I make some double faults or I missed something.  Then when you mix it up with the serve, it's very tough for the opponent also to adjust to those conditions, because they expect me to hit all the balls.   
 Q.  Is that the sort of thing you have been learning to do better over the years?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, of course.  I mean, I'm just trying to not hit every ball -- when I feel comfortable, I'll go for the shot, but otherwise I'll just try to maybe keep the ball in play.   
 Q.  What can you tell us about the quality of the game?  She had 12 doubles.  You had seven or eight, if I remember correctly.  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, honestly, after the first set I didn't have any double faults at all.  I was serving pretty well.  But then I think in the second set I made a lot of double faults because I was rushing a lot.   
But as I said, it was tough with the wind.  I think for her probably was tougher than for me.   
 Q.  I don't think you lost a point on serve in the first set.  Were you aware of how well you were serving to start the match?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: You mean I haven't lost?   
 Q.  I don't think you lost a point.  Like, you won all of your service points in the first set.  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Oh, really?   
 Q.  Yeah, I think so.  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, that's not bad to hear.  I think I was serving really well.  I think it was around 70% first serving in the first set.  Yeah, I think that's what helped me to win also the set.   
 Q.  Can you just talk a little bit about Fed Cup last week?  It was a pretty big tie for Latvia.  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Yeah, I mean, it was a very, very good experience for me.  I enjoyed it so much playing in front of the home crowd.  I mean, that's really something very, very, like, amazing for me and for the team.   
It was in the arena where there were around, like, 9,000 people.  Actually, today the draw was for the Fed Cup, and we're playing again in Latvia, which makes me very happy, because I just love it so much to play there, because I haven't played there since I was 12 years old.  And those emotions and everything -- I mean, it was just amazing atmosphere.  I just enjoyed every moment.   
 Q.  What was it like getting the support from your teammates, as well?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, it's also amazing, because it's not like you're playing for yourself.  First of all, you're playing for the country.  For me, it's always great to represent Latvia.  I just love to play for the country.   
Even sometimes if it doesn't go my way, I understand I'm not playing for myself.  Behind me is the country and the team, so I have to play good and I have to fight until the last point (smiling).   
 Q.  If I can ask you one question about the French Open, do you think it will be easier for you to go back to the French Open this year not as champion?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I hope so, because I had already enough pressure these one-and-a-half years, and especially in 2018.  And this year was also tough in the beginning because I was injured in the end of last season.  But I feel that I'm getting there slowly.   
 Q.  I just wanted to bring up, how are you feeling physically and what improvements do you feel like you have made in the last couple of weeks now that you're feeling better?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, of course I was working a lot on my consistency, on my serve and on my movement.  I feel of course much better.  But for me now to say I feel much better, it's very tough, because I just arrived so late yesterday.  Like, at 2:30 in the morning I was at the hotel and I had to play today.  I haven't played outdoors.  The conditions, very windy.   
I somehow managed to win.  Hopefully I'll get used to all the conditions and I will have enough rest today and will feel better tomorrow.   
 Q.  Was that the quickest turnaround you have ever had, where you've arrived at a tournament at 2:30 and then had to play so soon the next day?  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: Honestly, I think so, unless it was the tournament where I played the final or something.  And, yeah, it was -- I mean, it's very tough because I played still doubles on Sunday, which I wanted to play, of course.  I didn't have to, but I really wanted to because I love to play at home, and, you know, with the home crowd.  Yeah, and I was here only like late last night.   
 Q.  I don't know if you know, but after you won Roland Garros final, you became a very important player even for Romanian fans and Romanian press.  They ask about you a lot.  We know you're a very good friend with Sorana.  Last week in an interview she said that she's positive that you will win another Grand Slam.  What do you think about her words?  And speak about your friendship a little bit.  
JELENA OSTAPENKO: I mean, she's amazing girl, and I got to know her better like a couple of years ago.  We're best friends on tour.  I mean, it's always great to spend some time with her.  We enjoy it so much.  She even came to Riga, not last year but the year before, to spend some time with me.   
When we are in the tournaments, we just go for dinner and spend some time together.  We also love to play doubles together.  I think we do pretty well.   
About a Grand Slam, I mean, if I work hard and I keep the level up, I will be more confident and more consistent.  Of course I have chances to do that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT