CHINA OPEN
October 1, 2018
Zhang Ze
Gong Mao-Xin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








KUBOT-MELO/Zhang-Gong
6-4, 4-6, 10-7
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Chinese.
Q. Today's match was very intense.  Unluckily you lost the match in the third set.  Talk about the match today.  Any comments on performance?
GONG MAO-XIN: Well, we are disappointed we lost the match.  But looking back on the whole process, we were satisfied with our level of play.  First of all, our opponents are a top-ranked pair.  So in terms of level of play, we understand we are at a disadvantage.
What we wanted to do is to play our tactics, to do our best.  We saw our own improvement.  We'll come back again.
Q. The China Open is celebrating its 15th year.  You see some highlights in your career in the China Open.  Can you share with us some of the most impressive experiences here in the China Open?  Any improvement?
ZHANG ZE: Well, first of all, I would like to thank the China Open for giving us opportunities to come back year after year.  This is a high-level event.  Personally speaking, every year when I'm here I see a good performance.  I really enjoy playing on the courts here.
I did not compete in singles this year.  All my attention has been to doubles this year.  Our goal is through different tournaments, through our good performances, we hope we can get into the main draw of the Australian Open next year.
Well, the result today was a bit disappointing.  But in the past several weeks, we have hired a new coach, a new physiotherapist, a new physical trainer.  I think we are capable of being in the top 100, even top 50.
We will keep going forward.  Even though we lost the match today, we are really confident for matches in the future.  We are really grateful.
Q. You talked about hiring a new coach.  Could you tell us who is paying for the coach?  The team or yourself?
ZHANG ZE: Well, this foreign coach is American.  He coached the Bryan brothers before.  Our physical trainer was also part of his team, also worked with many top players before.
The payment, actually the provincial team is in charge of the payment.  The physical trainer started last week.  We can feel that he is very professional, much better than the ones we had before in terms of diet, our practice routines.  He has made several improvements in our playing.  He is a really good coach, very functional.
I see improvement in every way.  Very helpful.
Q. In terms of singles matches, in the challenger tournament you won a title.  However, we do not see much consistency in your performance.  Do you have any specific goals and plans for next year?
ZHANG ZE: Well, after the challenger event in Chengdu, I was injured.  I was in the Asian Games.  That was when I decided to put more focus on the doubles.  In the last tournament I felt pain in my abdomen and had to retire from the Chengdu matches.
But I'm still very confident in my singles.  Next week I will be competing in both singles and doubles.  I'm still very active and very positive.
I think both singles and doubles can help me prepare to raise my level of game.  I'm still at a golden age of my career.  I think I'm confident in myself.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT