ROLAND GARROS
May 25, 2016
Myrtille Georges
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








G. MUGURUZA/M. Georges
6-2, 6-0
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French, please.
Q. What about the match?  Start of the match you were almost on par with Muguruza.
MYRTILLE GEORGES: I got off to a decent start.  When stepping on court I felt great.  I was a little bit surprised by my level.  I tried to play my game and to enjoy the match.  I wanted to put her in a difficult situation.
At 2-2 Muguruza was trying to get her bearings and she was not in top form.  At that time I got tight and she was on a roll and I couldn't do anything about it.
Q. You said that you did get off to a good start.  At the end, what did you feel?
MYRTILLE GEORGES: It was tough.  A bitter bill to swallow.  All my emotions went through my mind.  I was very happy to experience this moment, but I was sad as well.  I wish I could do better for the crowd.  The crowd supported me and helped me quite a lot.  It was quite a warm reaction from the crowd.
When I left the court I relaxed.
Q. Playing on center court, how did it feel?
MYRTILLE GEORGES: At the start it was pleasant but at the end it was tough.  I was under the impression the court was too big.  My opponent was also too big for me.  It was a good experience.  Very happy to experience such a situation.
Q. Any positive lessons when you're defeated 6-2, 6-Love?
MYRTILLE GEORGES: It's a learning curve.  I'm not used to play on those big courts.  First time ever I played such a player.  Everything is different:  the game; the attitude is also different.  She's a champion.
Q. Did she say something to you at the end?
MYRTILLE GEORGES: Yes.  She said, Thank you.
Q. First set, at 2-2 everything was going smoothly, and then it was more complex.  At the 2-2 do you think you were able to sustain the physical challenge?
MYRTILLE GEORGES: Physically I was good, but I couldn't control my emotions.  When you are seized by emotions you're not lucid.  You can't deliver your shots.
My shots were not good shots and I was running after the ball and she was dictating play.
Q. At 2-2, there was a point and you hit your forehand wide.  Was it a turnaround?
MYRTILLE GEORGES: I don't think so.  I think that from that time she released.  It was not a turning point.  I was able to return so I forgot this point.  It was not a turning point.
Q. You said you were caught up by your emotions.  That's quite surprising, because most of the time when you step on court you feel emotional.  If I'm not mistaken, you said at 2-2 you were quite emotional.
MYRTILLE GEORGES: At the start I was elated.  I said to myself, I will play a seeded player.  I was on the right track.  At 2-2 it was a tight match, and at that time I felt I was uptight.
Q. Did you think that you could beat her?
MYRTILLE GEORGES: No, no, not really.  I don't know how to explain it, but I could feel pressure coming in and I felt smaller on the court as the match went on.
Q. What are the lessons learned?
MYRTILLE GEORGES: Experience.  This very moment on the Chatrier Court, I'm lucky to have played on this court in my life.  I don't know what the future has in store, but I will try to come back to the French Open.
I just want to understand why I got tense at 2-2.  I want to know the missing link in order to go on.
Q. What about the size of center court?
MYRTILLE GEORGES: The center court is nice.  I wasn't lost, in fact.
Q. What's up next?
MYRTILLE GEORGES: I will play the doubles tournament with Alize Lim, and then I will head for Italy for 50k tournaments.  I hope that I will be able to get the opportunity to take part in the qualifying at Wimbledon.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT