PUERTO RICO OPEN PRESENTED BY SEEPUERTORICO.COM
March 7, 2014
Rafael Campos
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Rafa, what a finish there with three birdies, 15, 16 and 17.   Almost near miss on 18.   Tell me a little bit about your round. 
RAFA CAMPOS:   Yeah.   Once again, I got off to a little slow start, and I don't know, it was just my back starting hurting a little bit at the beginning of the round.   Just a little strain, and I was trying to work through it.   I was hitting actually some decent shots.   My caddy kept me pretty calm really all the time, but it was starting to get a little frustrating knowing there were not that many holes left.   And I was rolling the ball good.   I just didn't see the ball go in. 
Yeah, birdie on 15 was great, and so that got me to one over par for the tournament.   And I love the read I got on 16.   I was like 18 feet and hit a good stroke, kept my head down and right in the middle and that kind of gave me a little bit of confidence.
Hit a good second shot on 17, put it to probably like eight feet and another good stroke.   And yeah, 18, right now I'm waiting to see what‑‑ if I'll play the weekend or not, but 18 was actually a great read, great putt.   I knew it's a tricky pin placement because a lot of people think it's going to break right, and from the previous years, I knew it wasn't.   So I really thought I had it in the hole, and it just trickled off and hit the lip of the hole.
But overall it was actually a good finish.   It was a good round.   I'm pleased.   I'm very pleased with the way I at least finished under pressure knowing I had to make some birdies coming in.

Q.   That was my next question.   Psychological game was all about it today.   You didn't have the best round of your life yesterday. 
RAFA CAMPOS:   Yeah.

Q.   You came in today, you're a local here.   How did that feel?   How did you overcome it?
RAFA CAMPOS:   No.   Just like you said, I didn't have a good round yesterday, and I was kind of struggling today a little bit with the way I was hitting the ball, but I was still putting it in play.   I knew what I had to shoot.   I knew I had to shoot close to 4‑under today, which I know it can be done here.   And it was just a simple solid round.
But yeah, psychologically, I knew I had to stay patient.   My caddy kept telling me, like hey, just hang in there, you know.   They'll fall.   Trust me, they'll fall.   When I missed a short three‑foot putt on 9 for par I started getting a little bit frustrated, and I went back to 2‑over par.   I'm like, I know I can have a good round here, but 10, 11, 12, couldn't see that ball drop and I'm like, awe.   But psychologically, yeah, I think I did a great job staying in the present and not trying to get over excited after the three birdies.   I knew I still had another hole left.   I knew I had to kind of make a birdie, so I had to refocus and get back on track. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT