PUERTO RICO OPEN PRESENTED BY SEEPUERTORICO.COM
March 10, 2013
Rafael Campos
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You had another tough day out there, but you ended the day with a birdie.   How do you feel right now?  
RAFAEL CAMPOS:   Well, I'm just happy, happy that the week is over.   Well, I'm happy and not so happy because I'd love to be playing out here every day with people following me and supporting me.   
A little tired, a little exhausted right now.   They were two very early days out here.   In terms of my play ‑‑  
   
 Q.   You're not satisfied?  
RAFAEL CAMPOS:   Not with my result, no, but in terms of my play, in terms of how I feel when I hit the ball, then yes.  
These last three days I didn't do very well, but still happy to be here, very happy to be playing in this tournament and to make it to the final day.   
   
 Q.   Even though it wasn't what you would have wanted, it was your best result ever in a Puerto Rico Open, I believe the best result by a local player in the history of the tournament.   Is that a source of pride or satisfaction?  
RAFAEL CAMPOS:   Well, yes.   It was my best result, so yes.   But I feel that I can compete with these guys every single week.   I've had two years of a lot of traveling, a lot of tournaments, of playing on some big stages, and I really feel comfortable.   
Again, you know, yeah, it was my best result, but I really feel like I'm at the same level with all these other players and there's no reason for me not to be up there week after week.  
   
 Q.   Are you heading straight for the PGA TOUR Latin America now?  
RAFAEL CAMPOS:   Yes, definitely.   I'm very excited and I'm anxious to start the season.   It's a great opportunity for us, and going back to South America to play on those courses where I felt really comfortable and to go back to the friends I made and have that opportunity once again to make it to the next level is great.   
   
 Q.   What do you say to all the fans and the public that was following you out here all week?  
RAFAEL CAMPOS:   Yeah, from the bottom of my heart, I'm very, very thankful.   Even if I wasn't reacting to it or acknowledging it on the course, I was really feeling it.   I felt the people wanted me to play well.   When they saw that I was down, they would try to lift me up a little bit, and I'm very, very thankful for that from the bottom of my heart.   I love having people following me and supporting me.   
And again, I just feel very thankful because they really make me feel like I'm doing the right thing out here.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT