PUERTO RICO OPEN PRESENTED BY SEEPUERTORICO.COM
March 9, 2013
Rafael Campos
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You started out pretty well today and then didn't have such a great finish.   What can you tell us about those last few holes?
RAFAEL CAMPOS:   Well, I'm really not satisfied.   I'm pretty upset right now, and I am a little frustrated.   There's just no reason to shoot a score like this, especially on a day like today with the conditions being so good. 
The course is playing really easily, and you can shoot a really low score.   But just ‑‑ yeah, the greens I was missing.   I wasn't able to make any up‑and‑downs, and the bunkers are really giving me a lot of trouble. 
I keep landing the ball right on the edges of the bunkers, and there's a lot of sand on the edges, and it's really hard to control the distance. 
But I was playing pretty calmly.   I felt pretty good up until the end on those last few holes where I just ‑‑ I hit a couple of bad shots and they didn't turn out so well. 

Q.   Did you make a conscious decision to be particularly aggressive on some holes, for example, with the drive on 17?
RAFAEL CAMPOS:   Yeah.   On 17 I just made a bad swing.   I knew that if I hit it right and completed my swing and hit it hard, the water wouldn't even come into play.   I knew I could carry the water and that was no problem. 
So yeah, that was just one of those bad shots that ended up right on the edge of the bunker, made it a little more complicated.   But you know, they make them that way on purpose.   They want players to risk it, and you know, sometimes you end up with a higher score than if you had been on the fairway. 

Q.   What do you do after a day like today where you are upset, you are frustrated and you need to come in with a clean slate tomorrow?
RAFAEL CAMPOS:   Well, the first thing I'm going to do is go putt because today I just didn't feel comfortable at all.   The ball wasn't rolling where I wanted it to.   I didn't feel comfortable, and you know, I only missed I think five greens, so that means I had 13 chances for birdie, and they just weren't going in.   I had way too many putts. 
And you know, I just made no up‑and‑downs, and it's just not good when you're not making those up‑and‑downs, and too many bogeys snuck in there.

Q.   Obviously tomorrow you'll try to climb the leaderboard.   Once again, is that just for your personal satisfaction or are you also thinking about the higher earnings near the top of the leaderboard?
RAFAEL CAMPOS:   No, you know, the money really doesn't matter to me.   I just don't like being close to the bottom of the leaderboard, especially on days like today with the conditions being so good. 
I know the scores are going to be really, really low, and to shoot around par or over par is just absolutely not a good round.   Of course, I want to play well and play better.   This was really a setback for me because today was really the day to play well and move some spots up the leaderboard, and I just really didn't like the way I played today, and I went down instead of up. 
So tomorrow I'll just keep being aggressive like I was today and try to give myself some good chances like I have today, but the short game, my chipping and putting, it just wasn't there for me today. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT