PUERTO RICO OPEN PRESENTED BY SEEPUERTORICO.COM
March 8, 2013
Rafael Campos
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Do you feel that you're driving well, because we saw a couple of holes and you were usually outdriving your playing partners. 
RAFAEL CAMPOS:   Yes.   I'm hitting the driver pretty well.   I had a little bit of that luck there in the middle of the round and I had a couple of ugly swings, had a couple balls that landed next to trees, and then I was stuck in the bunkers.   So it was a little bit tough. 
But I wasn't really nervous.   I was feeling well because I was hitting the ball well.   But I definitely ‑‑ I didn't like ending up 2‑over today.

Q.   What do you think it was, then, if you generally felt good about your game?
RAFAEL CAMPOS:   Yes, I did feel good about it.   You know, luck is also a big part of the game.   There was really only one shot that I didn't feel comfortable with off the tee on No. 8.   I wasn't comfortable, and I hit anyway and I just knew it was going to be a mistake, and I had to take an unplayable because I didn't have a shot.   And it ended up being a double bogey.   But that didn't bother me as much.   I was still feeling good about it.
But then later I buried a couple of balls in the bunker on 12.   I hit a great drive.   The ball ended up with some mud on the left, and I know that the tendency is that it would go to the right, but I didn't believe it, and I made a really good swing, maybe my best swing of the day, but the ball ended up just buried in the bunker. 

Q.   Can you talk about the 18th hole and what it means to finish up with a birdie, what that does for your momentum now that it looks like you're going to be playing this weekend?
RAFAEL CAMPOS:   Yeah, definitely that was big for me because I thought things aren't really going well, things aren't really going my way right now.   And I knew that on the second shot the only place that I could miss was to the right.   I knew that.   My caddy and I thought let's just aim for that bunker, and the wind is going to take it away.   But the wind is a little bit different right now and it stayed out there. 
But yeah, it was very important because I thought if I bogey, I miss the cut.   If I make par, I am right on the verge of making the cut and if I birdie, I can be a little more comfortable.

Q.   But you were able to recover nicely with that chip shot. 
RAFAEL CAMPOS:   Definitely.   I put it as close as anyone could possibly put it.   It came out just as I visualized it.   I really couldn't aim for the pin on that one because it would have been impossible to stop the ball.   Thankfully I stayed calm and I hit it just right.   That really was my best shot of the day.

Q.   Now that making the cut is behind you, do you start thinking about what kind of position you'd like to finish in?
RAFAEL CAMPOS:   Oh, I still want to win.   That's still my mindset.   I know I may be about ten shots back right now, but the same way that they might have gained ten shots on me today, I know that I can gain ten strokes on them tomorrow.
I still have a really strong mindset of just playing well.   Definitely I want to be in that Top 10.   I want to be in next week a PGA event.   I know I'm a little bit far behind now.   I think that the Top 10 is probably at 8 or 9‑under right now.   But six or seven strokes, you know, that's nothing.   You can lose two strokes with one bad shot.   You can gain a couple strokes with one good shot. 
But yeah, I definitely want to be in that Top 10, but who knows what kind of day it's going to be tomorrow.   At least I'll probably have a little bit less pressure.   I think I'm going to be able to enjoy it more, and you know, you can shoot some really low scores on this course.   If you're hitting it straight, you can do some really good scoring.
And yeah, you never know.   The idea tomorrow is just to move up, to move up on the leaderboard, no matter what, just to improve on the position where I'm at right now. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT