PUERTO RICO OPEN PRESENTED BY SEEPUERTORICO.COM
March 7, 2013
Rafael Campos
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Rafa, to finish out your round with birdies like that, what does that mean to you and do for your confidence?
RAFAEL CAMPOS:   I really needed a good start today, a good first round, which is what I haven't been able to have the last few years. 
The caddy did a great job today.   He kept me calm throughout the day.   I knew that I was going to be a little nervous in the beginning.   The first five holes I kind of didn't know what I was doing a little bit, but I calmed down and everything improved from there. 
I knew if I focused, just take one shot at a time, the result would be good.   I've been hitting the ball well.   So if I just believed in that, I knew I could put up a good score.

Q.   You finished up tied for fifth, I believe.   What does it mean to you for this to be the first time that a Puerto Rican is up so high on the leaderboard?
RAFAEL CAMPOS:   Yeah, I definitely ‑‑ you know, it was just a good round.   It's only the first round.   I'm not really thinking about where I'm at right now.   That's something I'd start thinking about maybe on the third day.   There's still some golf to be played tomorrow.
But definitely the confidence is way up there.   I feel good.   I made some changes with my teams in terms of clubs, and definitely I feel good.   It feels great when you play this way to feel that you can compete with all these people.

Q.   On that last putt was there a little bit more of emotion?
RAFAEL CAMPOS:   Yeah, definitely.   You know, I really wanted to make that one, and I definitely had a little extra focus.   You know, if I didn't make it, I was fine.   My caddy said, let's play it about a cup and a half.   But I hit it softly because I knew that it was going to roll. 
I knew if I just kept looking down that I'd have a good chance, and if I missed it, that was okay, but definitely it felt good to make it in front of all the people and I at least just wanted to put a good stroke on it.

Q.   You had said that a big part of your approach this week was going to be the mental part, you know, your attitude and having fun out there.   Did you have fun out there?
RAFAEL CAMPOS:   Yeah, definitely.   I was in a great group.   Jon Curran and Russell Knox.   It was my first time meeting them and playing with them.   But they are great guys. 
We were all playing well, which also helped because we kind of all had a little momentum and wanted to match each other. 
So definitely it felt good out there and I really tried to focus on staying calm. 
There were some shots that didn't go the way I wanted them to, but I think we all did a good job of saying like we can make birdies.   This is our job.   We've done this before, and try not to get too pumped up and too anxious.
So yeah, we all did a good job of ‑‑ I really thought that I did a good job with the mental game. 

Q.   For tomorrow, any adjustments or just keep doing what you're doing?
RAFAEL CAMPOS:   No.   For tomorrow ‑‑ well, I'm in a good position and that's something that I haven't really experienced at this tournament in the past several years.   It'll be the same focus.   I'll go back with my caddy tonight and look at some holes that have given us trouble in the past.   But essentially it'll be the same focus.   We'll be working on the game before the game.   You know, that's something that I did with my caddy and it really worked well for today.   We just said, you know, no matter what happens, we're going to hit this club from this spot. 
And just go back to doing the same thing, of course try to hit it well, try to play well and see what happens. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT