CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 24, 2019
Caroline Masson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Nice bogey-free day for you.  
CAROLINE MASSON: Yeah.   
 Q.  Got to feel good right now. What was it like out there today?  
CAROLINE MASSON: Yeah, obviously pretty good for me. I feel like I played really solid. Really just two shots that -- or couple shots I think that -- not got me in trouble, but got it up and down out of the bunker twice. That was kind of the only real chance to make bogey.   
Other than that, pretty solid. You know, just from the start, like missed a few ones on the first two holes where I was like, Why don't they just fall in?   
I got it going after that, so it's good to stay patient and get rewarded.   
 Q.  You've always played well in Canada. What is it about this place that seems to suit you?  
CAROLINE MASSON: Yeah, I've always said I love Canada from the first time I came here. Kind of reminds me a little bit of Germany. I guess just it's pretty green and the trees and the climate and stuff.   
I love the fans. I think the Canadians, they really know their golf and they're really into women's golf. Also thanks to Brooke of course.   
But it's a lot of fun to come out here. We always have great conditions and golf courses. Just a lot of fun. This is probably as close to a major as it can get for not being one.   
It's a special week.   
 Q.  And looking forward a couple weeks, this is good to help get you set up for Solheim Cup.  
CAROLINE MASSON: Yeah.   
 Q.  How is it feeling heading to Gleneagles?  
CAROLINE MASSON: Oh, I'm super excited for sure. We had a little team practice and I think we all got a really good vibe. Course looks really, really good. Team looks good.   
I'm extremely -- fourth time. It doesn't get boring, that's for sure. Especially playing at home.   
Yeah, can't wait. I'm going to take the next week off and have two weeks off and prepare, be ready, go to Germany a little early to get used to the time difference, and be ready to roll for sure.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT