ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS LADIES SCOTTISH OPEN
August 7, 2019
Caroline Masson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How are you feeling entering this week coming off two majors?
CAROLINE MASSON: Feeling pretty good.  Two majors is pretty crazy in a row, really.  Like we never do that.  I actually felt a little tired beginning of last week, too, and I was like "Come on, Caroline, it's a major week.  Just conserve your energy" and stuff.  I'll do the same this week.  Obviously with the conditions being tough, you'll need a lot of energy out there and focus, so I'm just taking it easy right now and we'll be ready on Thursday.
Q. Coming off a really good finish at the British, how much momentum does that give you?
CAROLINE MASSON: It's awesome.  I feel like in the last few years, I've always done pretty well.  Like at this time of the year, British Opens and Scottish Opens, so a lot of positives.  A good finish frees me up a little bit for a few things.  I think for Solheim and also Asia the rest of the year.  It's a nice feeling.  I've been playing well for a long time, actually, and finally to get the results as well, it frees you up a little bit and I can plan the rest of the season, which is nice.
Q. Solheim Cup announcement is on Monday.  You look like you're in a pretty good condition to make your fourth straight team.  How does that feel and are you looking forward to knowing?
CAROLINE MASSON: Yeah, for sure.  You never know for sure.  Things can still change this week, obviously, but yeah, I feel like I'm in a pretty good spot and playing well.  Obviously I can help the team with experience and pretty good form, as well.  Like I always say, I've been a pretty good team player I think.  It's always been a huge goal and it's coming closer now, which is nice, because it's always in the back of your mind and you're obviously trying to play well, anyway, but trying to play well for Solheim and make sure to be on the team.  Nice that it's coming close and coming to an end in a way, the qualifying process.
This week is still another huge week.  Just going to try to play my best and hopefully have a chance on Sunday to play for the win, as well.
Q. How does this course set up for you?
CAROLINE MASSON: I've only seen the front nine so far, but yeah, it looks tough.  Yesterday wasn't much wind, but looks different -- the greens are pretty huge and undulating and especially with the wind coming up, putting will be huge.
For me in general, I've been hitting it well.  You have to hit it in the fairway which I've been doing and kind of sets up well for me, but again, I think you really have to handle the conditions, so that will be the biggest thing.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT