MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY DANA
July 11, 2019
Caroline Masson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I know it's only day one, but to see your name close to the top, how good of a feeling is that coming of the green at nine here?
CAROLINE MASSON: Yeah, great feeling.  Obviously it's always nice to get off to a good start.  I feel like the last few weeks I actually had good first and second rounds.  I feel comfortable going out in the morning.
It was nice to get a really good round going, and obviously hope to continue that for the next three days.
Q. Take us through your front nine.  I think you had five birdies in seven holes.
CAROLINE MASSON: Yeah, I actually made a bogey on my second hole, 11.  I 3-putted out of the fringe and wasn't quite happy about that.  It was nice to see some putts go in after that.
Made a really nice, long breaking putt on the next hole, so kind of got me going.  And sometimes you just need that, just to see one drop, get back to even, and just go from there and make a bunch of birdies.
Yeah, I felt really good.  I felt really in control.  My driving could have been a little bit better, but really happy with my iron game and always feels good to feel like you're hitting the right shots.
Q. Conditions for these morning groups, would you say they're pretty much perfect?
CAROLINE MASSON: Yeah, it was perfect.  It was warm; the ball is going a mile.  I think that was the only adjustment we had to make.  It was like picking up maybe a little bit towards the end, but not really.  Kind of changing direction a little bit like here and there, which is challenging.  You just have to maybe wait it out or just be patient.
Yeah, overall great conditions.  Course was in great shape.  Greens are rolling really well.  Great morning to get me started.
Q. Along those same lines, I know it's luck of the draw when your tee time is, but how much of taking advantage, do you have that mindset, especially on a Thursday morning when things can go your way?
CAROLINE MASSON: Yeah, I mean, I think every time you tee off in the morning you feel like you want to take advantage of that.  Usually less wind, maybe the greens are a little bit softer.
I saw the forecast and I saw that it might blow a little bit in the afternoon.  Yeah, really over the course of a season it kind of evens out.  Usually you realize when you're on the bad side of the draw and you don't appreciate when you're on the good side.
I've learned the last few years to re appreciate the good days and the good side of the draw, so I'm just going to do that and just relax a little bit and get ready for tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT