ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS LADIES SCOTTISH OPEN
July 27, 2018
Caroline Masson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Whether quite beatable, is it not?
CAROLINE MASSON: Absolutely.  Yeah.  Obviously I don't play that many tournaments in Europe anymore.  So always super happy to come back and definitely want to put my name up there, no question.
Q. You said you're not in Europe that much.  How do you feel about links golf?
CAROLINE MASSON: Yeah, I really learned to love it.  I think growing up it was a little difficult.  You're just not used to it, just not playing it a lot and now it's changed a little.  I'm just really looking forward to it every year.  And it's a different challenge.  I feel like right now it just freeze me up a little bit.  It's not that perfect golf that you have to play sometimes, especially in the States.  It's just more feel and hitting some different shots, and I figured it out pretty much last year playing well in the Scottish and British, and I just want to keep that going.  So no, excited to be here.
Q. What's been the key the first two days to how well you've scored?
CAROLINE MASSON: Really just playing pretty solid.  Yesterday I didn't drive it great, but I guess missed it in the right spots, and the irons have been really good.  And that was kind of the same thing.  Irons are really good, putting is pretty solid, and the driver was a little better today, so I put myself in a better spot and obviously didn't make any bogeys, so that's always a plus.  I feel like hitting a lot of greens and was close to a couple of 3-putts today, but made some good saves.  So it's just nice to have some momentum and keep yourself in it and to go bogey free is always a fun round.
Q. And obviously the world No. 2, 3 and 4 up there.  Is that a challenge that you relish going into the weekend taking on these players?
CAROLINE MASSON: Well, I mean I take them on every week, you know.  So I mean obviously they're great players.  And it's fun to compete against them.  I feel like I can beat them any day and any week.  So I'm not intimidated, but I have a lot of respect for them.  So I just want to go out and play my own game and just try to play as good as I can.  The conditions might change a little bit from what it looks like, so it's going to be a little different golf course, and my goal is just to focus on myself and just do the best I can, and I think that's all you can ask yourself.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT