LPGA KEB HANABANK CHAMPIONSHIP
October 14, 2017
Caroline Masson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CAROLINE MASSON: (Recording in progress.)  ...just play solid putt well on this golf course.  It seems gettable when you're playing well, but it seems pretty hard when you're note hit being the ball where you want to hit it.
I think it's just consistency and maybe getting the one up and down here and there.  Because you need it.  You're not going to hit 18 greens here, so.
Yeah, I just hit it a lot better than the last couple days.  Putting have been good pretty much all week.  Yeah, was nice to finally get me going a little bit.
Q. What were conditions like out there today compared to the first two days?
CAROLINE MASSON: Yeah, I mean, it's warming up a little bit.  Maybe a little less windy today, but pretty similar to yesterday.  Same direction, so the course plays -- in my opinion played pretty similar.  Maybe the pins a little tougher today.  Some were just hard to get to, and I think you just have to take your medicine there.
Overall, you know, it's playing good.  It seems maybe a little easier than in the past years because the greens are a little softer, a little slower.  Other than that, just as good as always.
Q. Five birdies at front nine; ideal start.
CAROLINE MASSON: Yeah, with a bogey on the first, or on No. 10, my first hole.  Yeah, I don't know.  Just like I said, I've made a lot bad shots in the first two days; kind of made some bogeys and always came back right after that.
I kind of never gave up, so today it is nice to just, again, get off to a bad start, but then make a couple birdies and get under par.  It's just a nice feeling to not be over par.
From there just felt I can really shoot a low round.  It was nice, and hopefully can keep it going for tomorrow.
Q. What are your goals going into tomorrow?
CAROLINE MASSON: Yeah, really just keep patient and do the same thing.  I took a little bit of a break before this week so my expectations overall were not as high.
I know it takes a little bit to get back into tournament mode and hit the right shots at the right time.  Really try to be smart tomorrow and putt well.  Obviously take advantage of my position now and maybe just move up the leaderboard a little bit.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT