KINGSMILL CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 20, 2016
Caroline Masson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Overall, the day obviously looked like a little bit of a slow start on the scorecard, but got it going on the back nine.  
CAROLINE MASSON: Yeah, I just didn't hit it very close.  I made my pars, and I made a pretty stupid bogey on a par-5, three-putted.   
 Q.  So slow start --  
CAROLINE MASSON: Yeah, didn't play great, didn't hit my irons close.  Didn't hit it very good -- I mean, not bad but just not close.  Stupid three-putt on the par-5, and then like another bad drive, kind of a stupid bogey, so 2-over, and obviously feels like you're playing in the morning, it wasn't that windy then, should be a little better than that.  But just tried to focus, just tried to stay calm and hit some close.  Hit it really close on a par-3, hit it really close, a tap-in on a par-5 coming in, and made a great birdie on 16, which is always --   
 Q.  How long was that putt?  
CAROLINE MASSON: I mean, that was about four meters, so that's, what, like 12 feet or so.  Yeah, it's just cool to turn it around and go in the right direction.   
 Q.  It could have gone either way.  
CAROLINE MASSON: Yeah, so overall I'm happy with that, but I've got to hit a couple balls on the range just to get the confidence back and just trust that I can hit it straight.   
 Q.  What about conditions, pin positions today, just because there's only really two low scores?  
CAROLINE MASSON: Yeah, just in general, you've always got to be careful not to short-side yourself.  If you make those mistakes, it's very hard to get it up-and-down.  You know, it's tough because obviously you want to make birdies.  You want to hit it close.  But at the same time you don't want to take the risk of short-siding yourself.  That's a decision you have to make, and I feel like I've played pretty smart so far.  When I didn't have the right number or didn't feel it or didn't feel that shot, I just hit it out to the safe side.  I made a few more mistakes today than I did yesterday, short-sided myself a little bit, and you just don't have a chance.   
I think when you're on and you can go at them and you hit them straight and you're confident, you can make a lot of birdies because the greens are rolling good.  But if you -- I mean, you've still got to play it smart.  I think that's why you have a couple really good scores, and then everybody else is just maybe playing it a little careful.   
 Q.  Confidence is pretty high just in general; ready for your first win?  
CAROLINE MASSON: Yeah.   
 Q.  You're knocking on the door, you're ready for it?  
CAROLINE MASSON: Yeah, I feel like it.  It's been cool this year because I feel like I've put myself in a good spot after the first couple days a lot.  On the leaderboard, and that's a good thing, and I just have to do it for four days.  Exactly, confidence is high.  I'm hitting it good.  I know I'm better than I used to be, and now I just have to finish it off and have that same kind of relaxed attitude on the weekend.  Anything can happen, but yeah, I'm looking forward to it.  It'll be interesting with the weather, though.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT