NORTH TEXAS LPGA SHOOTOUT PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 1, 2014
Caroline Masson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   The scorer even said you missed a couple of short ones?   You left a couple out there?  
CAROLINE MASSON:   Not really.   No, I didn't miss any short ones.   I hit pretty much every putt, except for that last one.   It was really good and had a good chance to go in.  
I hit them really close.   I didn't have to work hard for the birdies, especially on my front nine, the back nine.   You know, kept making good strokes, and finally one fell in on 7.   So that was nice.   It was very solid.  
   
 Q.   How long was that one?  
CAROLINE MASSON:   I would say‑‑ we're in feet; right?   I'm screwed now.  
   
 Q.   You can say it in meters.   
CAROLINE MASSON:   Yeah.   I would say like six, seven meters, something like that.   So it was nice to see one go in.  
   
 Q.   All right.   So sticking is close, your approach shot has been solid the past couple events.   
CAROLINE MASSON:   Yeah.   Really good iron shots.   Pretty much I just hit one bad drive on 1 and made a really good par there.   So it feels good.   You know, I'm pretty confident.   I have good memories from last year.   I had a good first round here.   So it's a lot of fun.  
   
 Q.   I was going to say, scored very well last year.   Just a bad final round.   
CAROLINE MASSON:   Yeah, exactly.  
   
 Q.   Is it good to come back to somewhere where you know you can go low?   Obviously it's a good thing?  
CAROLINE MASSON:   Yeah.   I think so.   You know, on one hand I know I can go low here and shoot a good score.   On the other hand, I kind of feel like I want to make up for the last round last year.  
   
 Q.   Sure.   Yeah.   
CAROLINE MASSON:   It's positive memories, though.   I mean I'm‑‑ it was a great week for me last year, you know, just to really get going, and that last round, yeah, I mean it's always‑‑ it's never nice to shoot a bad last round.   But I don't have it in my head too much.  
   
 Q.   Sure, sure.   What about this season you've had some pretty good finishes, trying to break through some really top ones.   Overall thoughts on season so far, about a third of the way through.   
CAROLINE MASSON:   Yeah.   I mean the start wasn't very good.   Singapore, Thailand was pretty poor.   And I just worked hard, saw my coach, and you know, just kept like patient and just worked hard.   
And ever since I really hit the ball really well, and I was just struggling in the first two rounds the last few tournaments.   You know, just couldn't score, and you know, maybe the mindset just wasn't right.   But I just try to play a little more aggressive now, especially in the first two rounds, and looks like it's paying off now.   But overall it was a good start to the season, and you know, a few good finishes, and I'm hitting it well, so I'm pretty confident.  
   
 Q.   Where are you based out of now?   Do you go back to Germany on breaks?  
CAROLINE MASSON:   No.   That's another thing I changed.   I got a place in Orlando.   So it makes it a little easier, you know, the travel, especially this year with the schedule being even fuller.  
   
 Q.   Sure, sure.   Tight.   Yeah.   
CAROLINE MASSON:   It's really nice to go back home to Orlando.   It's not so far.  
   
 Q.   Right.   Have your own bed to actually sleep in.   
CAROLINE MASSON:   Yeah.   It's awesome.   I love it there.  
   
 Q.   Where in Orlando?  
CAROLINE MASSON:   See, I'm not that good about it now, but it's really close to the airport.   So very convenient.   Yeah, it's like a new subdivision, apartment.   So it was a lot of fun, you know, like getting all the furniture and all that stuff.  
   
 Q.   Yeah, yeah.   When did you move there?  
CAROLINE MASSON:   I mean just after Singapore, yeah.  
   
 Q.   Okay.   So you got the place and kind of‑‑  
CAROLINE MASSON:   Yeah.   I was only there for three weeks so far.   Yeah, but got all the stuff, and you know, it feels good coming there, and yeah, it was a good decision for sure.  
   
 Q.   Yeah.   I can't even imagine.   
CAROLINE MASSON:   Don't get to go home much.  
   
 Q.   Yeah, I was going to say, when was the last time you were back in Germany?  
CAROLINE MASSON:   I went home after Singapore for just a few days because I had to do some stuff.   Still, you gotta go home sometimes, sponsors and all that kind of stuff.   
It's fun.   I'm hoping to maybe go home after the British.  
   
 Q.   Okay.   Yeah.   You're kind of right there.   Well, a little closer.   
CAROLINE MASSON:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   What about just second year, feeling just more comfortable?   Obviously you had a great rookie year, but things are a little different.   You know how things are working, that makes it easier.   
CAROLINE MASSON:   Exactly.   Way easier.   I know the courses and so I'm a little more relaxed.   I can maybe take a day off if I want to.   I don't have to play all those practice rounds and stuff.   And playing pro ams it a little easier, too.  
Yeah, you know, just feeling more comfortable and getting maybe a little more respect from the other players, too, you know.   Just makes you feel a little more accepted.  
   
 Q.   You're a sophomore now.   
CAROLINE MASSON:   Yeah.   It's always easier the second year I guess.  
   
 Q.   All right.   Cool.   That's all I needed.   Thank you very much.   
CAROLINE MASSON:   Yeah, you're welcome.   See you later.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT