SAFEWAY CLASSIC PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
August 30, 2013
Caroline Masson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Well, obviously the putting had to be very good. 
CAROLINE MASSON:   Yeah, I putted well.   I hit a few like really close, but you still have to make those putts within six feet maybe, so I made them all.   Then I guess I putted one from the fringe.   It was really solid.   I had some shots that were not perfect, but I managed to make my pars, and it was just a really good day today.

Q.   I know Ali talked to you earlier this week and talked about Solheim rejuvenating you and getting off to a slow start this year.   Do you feel like you're getting into your form and where you wanted to be from the beginning?
CAROLINE MASSON:   Yeah, I feel like I can just put it together a little better.   Like ball‑striking is good, putting is really good the last few weeks.   I think it just took me a while to get used to the greens out here.   They're just faster than in Europe, and just adjusting to the speed just took me a while.   But right now it's very solid.   I'm not making many mistakes, which is good, and I'm putting well.   I feel very, very comfortable out on the course, and I'm really enjoying it, like I'm having fun playing golf, which is awesome.

Q.   We talked about the Rookie of the Year race, which would obviously be icing on the top if you're able to get it.   Do you have any goals of wanting to get a win in your rookie year, because obviously you're getting closer and you're in contention this week.   Is that something on your radar?   You've won on the LET. 
CAROLINE MASSON:   I mean, obviously you always want to win, but I was not trying to get too caught up with it, just play solid golf and see.   But obviously, yeah, if you're in contention going into the weekend you might think about it.   I've been in that situation, which is good.   I learned how to win, how to be in contention on the LET.   I think I handle it much better now than I did maybe two, three years ago.   I'm just looking forward to it.   It's a great position to be in, and I like the golf course, and my swing feels good.   I just want to keep it going and not think about it too much, but it's definitely a goal. 

Q.   Obviously just seeing you play in Solheim you got to let the emotions out and you're a fiery player.   Do you like going into the third and fourth rounds in contention and kind of in the mix of things or do you like to kind of come out from behind? 
CAROLINE MASSON:   No, definitely‑‑ I want to be in the mix.   The better you can do on the first two days the better situation you're in, so definitely.   Just stay cool out there, not think about the score, hit one shot at a time, which is difficult sometimes, but I guess I'm getting better at that and just not looking at the score, just play and enjoy, hit some good shots, and then see where I end up. 
I've been happy with my season so far.   I kind of did everything I wanted to.   I played Solheim and I kept my card.   I'm going to play the Asian events and I'm going to be in CME.   There's no pressure for me really.   I can only surprise, I guess, and that's‑‑ my goal for the next two days is to keep doing what I'm doing right now, just have fun. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT