NORTH TEXAS LPGA SHOOTOUT
April 27, 2013
Caroline Masson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome Caroline Masson on the interview room here at the North Texas LPGA Shootout.   You're two shots off the lead heading into Sunday's final round.   You shot par 69 today, but I know it could have been a little bit better.   You had a little bit of a tough start.   So just take us through the day and how you feel you played.   
CAROLINE MASSON:   Yeah.   I had a tough start, made double bogey on the first.   Actually hit a good drive.   You know, it was in the fairway for the first time, I think, and yeah, I think we just misjudged the wind a little bit and I had the wrong cut, hit it in the bunker.   Had a fried egg, pretty bad lie.  
But yeah, you know, it's always tough to have a hole like that on the first hole, but yeah, I stayed pretty calm, I think, you know, and I could make a birdie a few holes later.   And I think you know, after that I was playing really well.   I hit one more bogey, but shot pretty much 4‑under on the last 17 holes, so overall I think it's still a pretty good round.  
THE MODERATOR:   Just talk about walking on the second hole.   What's going through your mind?   Are you thinking, hey, I'm going to turn this around?   You did end up making five more birdies, only one bogey, like you mentioned, so in the end not a bad round, but walking toward the rest of the day what were you thinking?   
CAROLINE MASSON:   Well, I was a bit disappointed, and I was thinking ‑‑ well, in German.   That's a good thing.   I don't have to tell you.   
But no, at the same time I was thinking, you know, I was playing well all week, and if I just keep making good shots, you know, I'm going to make some birdies as well, and I can still ‑‑ I was thinking maybe I can still get it back to, yeah, maybe eight, 9‑under, and yeah, I think that's what I did.  
So I was a little mad, but I was still positive at the same time, and I think, yeah, that's why I actually shot a good score today.  
THE MODERATOR:   Did you play any junior golf growing up at all with Carlota or any amateur‑type golf?   
CAROLINE MASSON:   Yeah, like we played all the time.   I mean I think we know each other since we were probably like 14, 15, so yeah, she's a great player.   She always hit it pretty far.   And especially last year on the ladies European Tour we played so much.   
Yeah, she's a good friend.   We're good friends, so it was fun to play with her today.  
THE MODERATOR:   If you could, just tell me what you think the best part of her game is from what you've seen playing with her.  
CAROLINE MASSON:   Everything is pretty good.   She hits it far, which is an advantage, and I think she was putting really well today.   You know, like didn't really make any mistakes on the greens and hit some close, and just yeah, made a few birdies, so yeah it was a very good round out there today.  
The MODERATOR:   Looking at the leaderboard obviously there's the No. 1 and No. 3 players in the world right in the hunt with you guys.   Does that affect you at all seeing those big names that you know have won quite a bit on the LPGA?   
CAROLINE MASSON:   No, you know, I mean I know they are probably going to shoot a good round tomorrow, so I know I have to play pretty good tomorrow to stay up there.   
But yeah, I'm not scared of them.   It's golf.   Everybody can have a good round in the last round, so I'm looking forward to maybe playing with Inbee tomorrow, and I'm just going to try to enjoy it and have a good day tomorrow.  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Caroline right here.   
   
 Q.   Two questions more on the personal level if you don't mind.   It's been a long time since the LPGA has been to the Metroplex and it's also you're getting to know the LPGA.   Can you give us a little bit of your impressions of the Metroplex?   Have you been out at all or has it just been studying the golf course, No. 1.   And part two is being from where you're from, is it at all cool to you that you're in the home of Dirk Nowitzki maybe the greatest German athlete in this country anyway?  
CAROLINE MASSON:   I'm going to answer the second question first because yeah, basketball is not that big in Germany, but Dirk Nowitzki is a huge star at home as well, and I'm following him and I was kind of disappointed because I was thinking, oh, great, I'm going to ‑‑  
   
 Q.   Playoff game?  
CAROLINE MASSON:   I might get to see him.   So I was following the last few games, and unfortunately they didn't make it, but still, he's ‑‑ I mean I don't know him, but he seems to be such a nice guy and I think a great representative for Germany here in the States.   So that's awesome.  
Yeah, the first question, I've pretty much only seen the golf course, to be honest.   Like there wasn't much time to do anything and I don't have a car this week, so I'm pretty much stuck at my hotel.   But it's a good thing, you know.   You don't want to spend too much time away from golf.   You know, maybe in an off‑week or something or a Monday, but like right now I'm so just focused on golf and the tournament.   And yeah, I think just same tonight.   Just going to relax, have a nice dinner and just yeah, relax to be ready for tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Some players have talked about it being difficult to putt out there.   I don't know if that's because of the wind or the greens increase in speed or what.   Your putting has been really good all week.   What's been the secret behind that?   Has it been like that all year?  
CAROLINE MASSON:   No, it hasn't.   No, I was struggling with my putting the first few tournaments.   You know, I really felt like I didn't play that bad but I just really couldn't make a putt and I was a bit disappointed, and so I don't know, this week I'm just feeling the greens really well.   I'm seeing the lines and I think the most important thing was the speed.   I just had great speed, you know, and haven't had a 3‑putt yet, which is pretty good on these greens.  
Yeah, I'm just going to try to do the same.   Just don't think about it too much, because it seems like I'm feeling pretty good.   Just go out there, see the line and hit it and hopefully I'm going to make a few more tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Caroline, do you have a regular caddy or are you just finding somebody as you go around?  
CAROLINE MASSON:   Well, that was a big issue the beginning of the year because yeah, I had some caddy issues there, you know, and right now I'm with an American bag carrier.   You know, we started last week, and we're probably only going to do a few weeks together because the caddy I was going to work with is an Irish guy.   He's back home.   His wife just got a baby like two weeks ago, so that's why he's at home.   
But it's fine.   I played the Kraft without ‑‑ well, my dad was caddying, so pretty much without a caddy.   He was carrying my bag, but I was doing everything, all the yardages myself, which was good, you know.   And a caddy is very important, but at the same time you have to play well, you know, and I think my caddy is doing a great job this week.   
   
 Q.   You said yesterday when you got finished, you said bogeys will come at times and sometimes they'll come at the end of the round, sometimes they'll come at the beginning of the round.   Well, this time they came at the beginning.   When you got those last few holes, obviously you got a birdie to finish, but did any thoughts go through your head or were you able to kind of keep that out of your head and say let's finish strong and get past this?  
CAROLINE MASSON:   No, I was just trying to make it better than yesterday.   Like I was thinking, okay, like on 16, for example, I hit it left there.   So just aim in the middle of the fairway.   And I mean I've hit it straight pretty much all day.   So just hit it straight.   And that's what I did.  
So I think I handled that pretty well, you know, and especially the double bogey in the beginning.   You know, it's kind of cool because I think a few years ago maybe, you know, my game would have fallen apart after a start like that, especially when you start thinking.   So I'm pretty happy and kind of a little proud as well, you know, that I handled it so well and that I could actually finish with a birdie, especially since I had that bad finish yesterday.   So it just shows you that golf is a strange game sometimes, and if bogeys come, they just come.   You also have a chance for birdie on every hole.   So I just have to keep thinking like that and think that I'm going to be fine.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks again for coming in and best of luck tomorrow.   
CAROLINE MASSON:   Thanks.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT