NORTH TEXAS LPGA SHOOTOUT
April 26, 2013
Caroline Masson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome our current leader, Caroline Masson into the interview room.   Nice day out there, even par 71.   I know it got off to a hot start and probably not the finish you were exactly hoping for, but take me through the day and how your round went out there. 
CAROLINE MASSON:   Yes.   I mean you know, I finished with like three bogeys on my last four holes, so it's a bit disappointing, but still, I played really solid, you know.
It's playing maybe a little tough there.   I didn't play as good as yesterday, but I expected that after that round yesterday.   So I was off to a good start with a birdie on one, which was really nice.   And it calmed me down a little bit, and after that I just made a few good pars, but I also made some good putts for birdie, and then yeah, the last few ‑‑ yeah, that was just some bad shots on the last few holes, but still I think, yeah a round of level par is never bad, you know.   And especially in that situation.   So I'm just looking forward to the weekend.
THE MODERATOR:   When we looked at the scores today, too, we didn't see as many low numbers.   It seems people weren't able to put together the type of runs that we saw yesterday.   Were the conditions much tougher?   What do you think accounted for the fact that we haven't seen as many low scores.
CAROLINE MASSON:   I don't really know.   It was a little windier than yesterday.   I think so but still there were so many chances out there to make birdie.   But it all got a little firmer, the fairways, the greens, so maybe it was just a little tougher to make birdies.   And that's probably why. 
THE MODERATOR:   Take me through that stretch.   I know you said three bogeys in the last four holes.   What went differently for you in that stretch than early when it seemed like you were just making birdies and kind of cruising along there.
CAROLINE MASSON:   Yeah.   Well, I made bogey on 15, hit it in the water off the tee.   I mean it's just a difficult tee shot.   I hit it a little left, so I think it just carried down the downslope and just went in the water.   It was not a horrible shot.   But that just happens.   I made bogey there.   Missed the putt and made bogey.   Yeah, the next tee shot was pretty far left.   So actually I could go ‑‑ I was going for the green.   Just for some reason hit a good shot and stayed a little short.   I couldn't make that putt either.   Yeah, then on 18 I hit it left again.   I think it was actually an all right tee shot because everything kicks to the right.   And if that one had been just a few meters further right it would have been fine.   But just in front of a tree.   Chip out in front of a tree again.   So I just made bogey there.   But yeah, as I said, overall it was still a good round, I think.
THE MODERATOR:   And to still finish in the lead and be holding the lead as you head into the weekend, what are kind of the goals as you head into the weekend and does your plan change at all in how you approach this golf course? 
CAROLINE MASSON:   No.   I have to stay patient.   That's my goal, you know.   Even if I make some bogeys out there, I can always make birdies, and just be as relaxed as I can.   Don't think about the lead too much and just enjoy the golf course.   And I still think I'm hitting it pretty good.   So I'm sure ‑‑ you know, if I can keep doing that on the weekend, I'll do fine.
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Caroline. 

Q.   Is it difficult to follow up such a great one as the first one, bogey‑free 64?
CAROLINE MASSON:   I think it always is, yeah because your expectations are pretty high.   It seems like it's so easy when you shoot a round like that and the next day you might struggle a little bit.   So that's why I was really happy that I had a really good start, you know, with a birdie on 1 and then a few more birdies.   And then yeah, so I think a level par after a 7‑under in the first round is not a bad round, so I'm pretty happy with that.

Q.   Caroline, after an ending stretch like that, are you almost glad it's over or do you wish you had more holes to play so you could try to turn it around?
CAROLINE MASSON:   After the last few holes, I'm actually ‑‑ I think I'm pretty happy it's over now.   It's always a long day when you play in the afternoon, so yeah, I'll just ‑‑ I don't know.   I don't know what went wrong really.   It was just a few bad shots, but I think that it's good that it's over and then I can, yeah, just relax now and tomorrow I think I'll be fine again.

Q.   You're happy with the even round, the even‑par round, but is there a part of you that kind of wonders what if?   You were up 4 at one point in time. 
CAROLINE MASSON:   Not really, you know.   It's just the second round, so you're always going to make some bogeys and you just have to accept that.   You know, it doesn't matter when they come.   Maybe you start off with a few bogeys or you finish with a few bogeys, but still, overall I hit it well.   An even par round is fine and I'm still in the lead, so yeah, I'm just going to take it as it is and just look forward to the weekend.

Q.   The drive on 15, can you talk about was that a difficult drive?   It kind of goes left to right; correct?
CAROLINE MASSON:   It is a difficult drive, you know, because the wind is behind and there is a huge downslope.   So anything that carries that downslope or carries into the downslope is probably going to go into the water.   So I just hit it a little left, and I thought it was going to be fine.   It carried the trees, but I guess it just took a strange kick there and just went into the water.   I mean I couldn't see it, but yeah, you know, things like that happen, especially when it's windy.   And yeah, you just have to accept it, you know.   I was trying to make par.   I had a good chance for par and couldn't do it, but that just happens.

Q.   (Inaudible). 
CAROLINE MASSON:   Oh, no.   I hit rescue.   Yeah.

Q.   Caroline, going from yesterday to today at this point do you just call it a day or will you work on some fundamentals before you hit in?
CAROLINE MASSON:   I'm just going to hit a few more balls on the range because I wasn't happy with the last few drives.   But as I say, it's been a long day, and you know, just hit a few and just go home and have dinner and relax. 
THE MODERATOR:   Caroline, you come from a pretty athletic family.   Kind of talk a little bit about your sports background and what lessons did you learn from your dad and from your brother in terms of handling ‑‑ you know, being in the lead or handling a tough day like today?   What kind of lessons have they kind of passed along.
CAROLINE MASSON:   Yeah.   My dad's a tennis coach, and he's always so positive, you know, which is great.   So every time I talk to my parents, especially my dad, he's so positive and even if I have a bad round or something, he's just like, oh, you know, you can do it tomorrow.   Just stay patient.
It's just good to hear that.   I think I'm really happy that my parents are not asking why did you do that or why did you do that, because that annoys me a little bit.   So they don't care, you know, really how I played or whatever.   They just always try to make me feel good, I think, and you know, it helps me a lot. 
And he really knows ‑‑ I mean he was caddying at the Kraft for me and I played pretty good out there, so it's just nice to have him around me, because of that positive attitude.   And yeah, it's always good fun and I love talking to him about everything, life, sports.   Yeah.   It's good fun.
THE MODERATOR:   And with having a dad as a tennis coach, how did you end up in golf and not become a tennis player.
CAROLINE MASSON:   Well, I was playing tennis when I grew up, and I think it's a great sport and I loved it, but you know, golf ‑‑ I don't know.   I was better in golf.   And at some point I had to make the decision do I want to play tennis or golf or what do I want to concentrate on, and I was a little better in golf.   And running is not exactly my strength, so I thought, okay, I'm better off with golf.   And yeah, I think I made a pretty good decision there.
THE MODERATOR:   I was going to say, based on looking at the leaderboard, I think that's not such a bad thing at all.   Any more questions for Caroline?   All right.   Thank you very much and best of luck over the weekend. 
CAROLINE MASSON:   Thanks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT