OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 6, 2012
Caroline Masson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Caroline, general assessment of your round today.   Was it an improvement on yesterday?   
CAROLINE MASSON:   Well, the same score as yesterday.   I think I played well again.   I hit many greens and just made one bogey where I just didn't have a shot after my tee shot.   
But overall, it was a good round.   Could have dropped a few more putts to go really low, but all in all, I'm quite happy with that.  
   
 Q.   Do you start feeling more comfortable as the week goes on; practice; one round under your belt, and then you start settling down, particularly in a big week like this?  
CAROLINE MASSON:   Yeah, I am.   I just came in from Q‑School a few days ago.   So still stuff to get up in the mornings.   
It's just nice that I feel comfortable out there.   I didn't really expect that because sometimes you just feel a little weird on the course.   But I'm playing well and I'm hitting it well, and yeah, I'm enjoying it here.   The weather is great and the course is great, so it shouldn't be a problem for me.  
   
 Q.   It's been a busy couple of weeks as you've said, is that much of a factor this week in terms of tiredness or mental fatigue?   
CAROLINE MASSON:   No, not at all.   I think it's such a nice tournament, and you know, it's quite important, for Carlota and myself.   I think I might get tired after this week, but right now, it's not a problem, and it's not an excuse for anything.   So just enjoying it and not feeling bad out there at all.  
   
 Q.   Been talking to Carlota about Order of Merit race and how she's trying to block it out and deal with it round by round; is that the same approach you take?  
CAROLINE MASSON:   Yeah, definitely.   It's four rounds, it's still two to go.   So a lot of golf to be played.   
I just want to keep playing well, make some birdies, and just try to win the tournament and if she plays really well, I can't do anything about it.   So just go out, have fun, play well and I did that today and I'm going to do that on the weekend, as well.   
   
 Q.   Just lastly, just a word about your year in general, it's been a really significant 12 months for you.   Can you just describe how your game has moved on and how significant it has been in terms of your career?  
CAROLINE MASSON:   Well, it's been a great year.   I had my first win.   I just got my card from the LPGA, and you know, I think I'm just getting better and better; what I did better this year is finish like up there quite a few times.   I finished second four times actually.   
So I learned that if I'm in contention, I'll doing pretty well on the last day, I think that was the biggest improvement.   I kept calm, it was a busy year and I'm really happy about that LPGA card.   It's the next big step and I'm really looking forward to next year.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT