CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 22, 2019
Caroline Masson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Bogey-free 66 on Friday here at the CME Group Tour Championship. What was the key to your round?  
CAROLINE MASSON: Just consistency, I think. I've played really solid really the last few weeks, and also the last couple days. Just giving myself a lot of birdie chances. You know, you make some, you miss some, and yeah, it was nice to finish off with a really good putt on 18, so a really fun day out there.   
 Q.  You've never finished inside the top 20 here at this tournament. What's the difference this week with so much more on the line with the winner's check?  
CAROLINE MASSON: Well, I don't know. You know, I've been here seven years now. It's a lot of experience, and I feel like that always helps. Certainly helps living in Florida, I think, getting really used to the grass, to the grain, that kind of stuff. But I just think overall I'm just playing really well right now. I had a solid Asia, one really good finish, and just managed to still keep that up even though I had two weeks off in between, and just, yeah, keep going over here.   
 Q.  What did you spend those two weeks off after the runner-up finish in Taiwan and tuning up for this last tournament?  
CAROLINE MASSON: Same things as really the last couple years. Took a couple days off. Jet lag is usually pretty bad coming in Asia, so it almost took a week to get used to the time and feel good. I took my time. That was why I took the week off in Japan and had two weeks at home. So did that and just went through my normal practice. Not overdo it, have a good balance, some off time and some practice, get used to the grass again, play some golf on the golf course. I thought that was important to me to just keep playing and not just practice too much but really be on the course and just score. Yeah, it seemed to work out pretty good so far.   
 Q.  Take us through that putt on 18.  
CAROLINE MASSON: Yeah, that's a tough hole. Today the wind seemed to be a little bit into, so playing longer. I hit a 4-iron in there, which is a long club to come in with, and hit a really good shot. Just went over the green just a little bit, which it's not awful but it's not easy coming through the fringe which is very grainy and downhill after that. To be honest, I hit it a little bit hard. It was tracking, though. It was on line and hit the pin and went in. Just the little luck that you need sometimes, and I feel like I earned that this week giving myself chances, and once in a while you make one of these, and it really feels really good.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT