UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN MEDIA CONFERENCE
December 20, 2007
Jamar Adams
Brandent Englemon
Chris Graham
Chad Henne
Will Johnson
Adam Kraus
Jake Long
Morgan Trent
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


  THE MODERATOR:  We'll get started with Jake Long. 

 Q.  Can you give us your impressions of Coach Carr leaving. 
 JAKE LONG:  You know, it was his choice to leave.  He went out on his own page.  It was his time to go, so he stepped down. 

 Q.  Does that make any difference for the last game? 
 JAKE LONG:  Not really.  We're focusing still on the Bowl game, winning our last game.  You know, now we just know there's going to be a new coach.  It really hasn't changed much. 

 Q.  Have you had a chance to meet Coach Rodriguez? 
 JAKE LONG:  He came to practice yesterday and today, talked to the team a little bit yesterday.  Just said hello, what a great honor it is to be here.  You know, I don't know much about the guy.  I know he's a good coach, did great at West Virginia.  I hope he does great things for Michigan in the future. 

 Q.  Talk about what this last game means to you and Coach Carr as well. 
 JAKE LONG:  It means a lot to me and the team as seniors.  You can lump Coach Carr in with the seniors because it's his last game.  We really want to end on a high note for him, the seniors, this whole team. 
 We're really practicing hard, want to play a great game, want to come away with a win. 

 Q.  How tough is it to focus with so much different stuff going on between Lloyd retiring... 
 JAKE LONG:  I think this team has done a really good job focusing because we've had great practices, hard, intense practices.  There is a lot of stuff going on.  I think we're all really focused on Florida, this Bowl game.  Whatever happens after that happens.  But I think everybody is just really focused on that right now.  You can definitely tell we want this game because we've been practicing really well. 

 Q.  What are your impressions about Florida's defense? 
 JAKE LONG:  Their front seven are great players.  Their two DMs, Harvey and Cunningham, their linebackers, they're fast, strong, physical.  Definitely might be the best defense we faced all year. 
 You know, it's going to be fun playing against them. 

 Q.  With this being the last game, do you expect any trickery or... 
 JAKE LONG:  That's something you have to ask the coaches.  I just follow what they do.  In practice we've just been doing the same thing we've been doing all year. 

 Q.  Having some time off, how is everyone doing? 
 JAKE LONG:  I think everybody is feeling healthy, doing well.  You can tell this rest definitely helped us all out.  We're having faster, harder, more intense practices.  Everybody is getting back to a hundred percent. 

 Q.  How much has it been a distraction, this coaching carrousel thing, for the players? 
 JAKE LONG:  You know, first couple days Coach Carr retired, you know, most of us knew it was coming, so we all prepared ourselves for that.  Then Coach Rodriguez getting hired, like I said before, I think everybody's really done a good job with that because we've been focused and we're just worrying about this game right now. 

 Q.  Is it a relief to know you have a coach coming in next season? 
 JAKE LONG:  I mean, yeah, it's nice to know that Michigan found a great coach and that he'll do great things for Michigan in the future.  Like I said, we're just really focusing on this game.  Whatever happens after the Bowl game and next season will happen.  But right now we're just focusing on this team. 

 Q.  Is it starting to sink in you're preparing for your last game? 
 JAKE LONG:  Man, a little bit.  Really just starting to pack up and move out of my apartment, saying good-bye to all my friends.  That's really starting to kick in.  It went fast.  That's why, you know, all the seniors are really trying hard 'cause we want to go out on top.  We haven't won a Bowl game yet.  So we're really preparing hard for our last game. 

 Q.  Does that factor into your preparation, knowing you haven't won a Bowl game, this is your last chance to do so? 
 JAKE LONG:  Yeah, absolutely.  You know, we haven't won one yet and we don't know what it's like to end the season on a high note or go out as a champion of a Bowl.  You know, the seniors really want to work hard, this whole team, to win this game. 

 Q.  How important is the game for defining the legacy of this class? 
 JAKE LONG:  I think it's very important, all the ups and downs we went through this year.  I think this game, playing a great team in Florida, if we can come away with a win, play our best game, that would leave a great legacy for this team. 

 Q.  Florida is one of the highest ranked teams in the league.  You'll have to put up a good amount of offense to win this game. 
 JAKE LONG:  They got Tebow, Heisman winner.  They got a great offense.  We just want to go out and score as many points as we can, run the ball, pass the ball great, just score as much as we can. 

 Q.  Kind of weird to you that NFL scouts will see you, and obviously you want to focus on winning, but do you have in your mind this is an audition? 
 JAKE LONG:  It's been going on like that all year.  I just put it in the back of my mind.  Didn't worry about it.  Worry about the team.  Then after the Bowl game, start worrying about it. 
 That's never been a focal point of mine. 
 THE MODERATOR:  We have center guard Adam Kraus. 

 Q.  How is the health along the offensive line?  Had a bit of a layoff. 
 ADAM KRAUS:  Everybody's been getting a lot of rest.  It's been nice.  We had a few weeks off after the Ohio State game.  We've really had time to nurse those injuries, bumps and bruises that have troubled some of us in the past. 
 I think everybody's looking good and ready to go. 

 Q.  When did you know about Lloyd's retirement?  What was your reaction? 
 ADAM KRAUS:  We found out the same time the whole team found out.  Some of us were expecting it all year long.  But he told us the day after the Ohio State game. 

 Q.  Have you had a chance to meet Coach Rodriguez at all, be around him at all? 
 ADAM KRAUS:  He came and introduced himself to the team yesterday and he's been at practice the last two days, so we've had a chance to see him.  Haven't met him personally.  I'm looking forward to that. 

 Q.  What kind of impressions do you have of him just from seeing him? 
 ADAM KRAUS:  Well, I mean, I think he knows his football.  That's evident from his record at West Virginia.  He did a great job.  I'm looking forward to him, you know, continuing the Michigan tradition. 

 Q.  Talk about the distractions in preparing for the Bowl game. 
 ADAM KRAUS:  I think the team has been pretty focused on the task at hand.  We have a great team in Florida in the Capital One Bowl that we have to play in their backyard.  I think we all know the athleticism and the type of team they are.  I think we have to bring our best game and I think we all have to stay focused on that. 

 Q.  Is it nice to have not to have the media asking who the next coach is going to be, is it going to be Les Miles, all that? 
 ADAM KRAUS:  To tell you the truth, that wasn't an issue for me.  That was Bill Martin's job, whoever else was on the committee, to bring in the best guy.  I had confidence they would do that. 
 It never really bothered me, those questions, because I knew we had great people taking care of that. 

 Q.  What has Coach Rodriguez done in practice? 
 ADAM KRAUS:  He's been observing.  He addressed the team once. 

 Q.  What did he talk about? 
 ADAM KRAUS:  Just introduced himself and told us he was excited. 

 Q.  Talk about trying to get your first Bowl win coming up. 
 ADAM KRAUS:  It would mean the world to me to go out on top against a great Florida team.  I want to go out on a winning note with a smile on my face.  We haven't won the Bowl game for the past four years that I've been here.  It definitely would make my season. 

 Q.  Is it a little strange to be going out the same year as your head coach? 
 ADAM KRAUS:  Sure, I'm going to miss being around Schembechler Hall, I'm going to miss being at Michigan.  You know, but I think the new coaching staff is going to welcome us back.  I know Coach Carr is going to be a Michigan man for life.  He's a phone call away whenever I need him. 

 Q.  Can you talk about the importance of this game to you and Coach Carr. 
 ADAM KRAUS:  I mean, we want to go out on top.  It's a great Florida team.  If we can win this game, it definitely would make our season.  I haven't won a Bowl game the past four years, so it would be a great way to go out with a smile on my face, a W, go out as champions of the Capital One Bowl, which is important. 

 Q.  Florida is talked about as a double-digit favorite.  Do you guys have a chip on your shoulder at all? 
 ADAM KRAUS:  I didn't know they were a double-digit favorite.  But that's expected the way we played in our last two games.  We're going to be underdogs.  They're a great team.  I mean, I don't know if it's extra motivation, but definitely we want to win.  I mean, it's all out there for us.  We're excited about it. 
 THE MODERATOR:  We have senior safety Brandent Englemon. 

 Q.  Obviously you've heard a lot about their offense.  Are you anxious to get a crack at them? 
 BRANDENT ENGLEMON:  Yes, definitely.  Probably one of the highest scoring teams in the nation.  It's gonna take a collective effort to stop them on defense really. 

 Q.  What have you seen in Tebow?  What is the key to trying to slow him down? 
 BRANDENT ENGLEMON:  Like I said, it takes everybody to stop a guy who's capable of running and throwing.  He's 240 pounds and can throw the deep ball as well as anybody I've seen on videotape.  It's definitely going to take a collective effort. 

 Q.  What's impressed you most about him on film? 
 BRANDENT ENGLEMON:  They definitely have great team speed.  Tebow is the center of everything.  The run game, the passing game, it all starts with him.  In order to tame him, we have to come after him and be able to stop him. 

 Q.  We all know about Tebow.  Anybody else that stands out to you on film? 
 BRANDENT ENGLEMON:  Definitely Percy Harvin is probably one of the best players I've ever seen on film.  He is very explosive, can make a cut, get upfield as quick as anybody I've ever seen. 

 Q.  How big of a distraction has this whole coaching thing been? 
 BRANDENT ENGLEMON:  For me it really hasn't been a distraction with Rich being hired.  It's just put clarity for the future for the young guys.  That's really the main thing.  It really hasn't been a distraction. 

 Q.  Is it just nice to get it over with? 
 BRANDENT ENGLEMON:  Yeah, especially for the young guys, like I said, they didn't know who was going to be coaching them for the next couple years.  That's the main thing. 

 Q.  You haven't had a lot of time around Rich, but what impressed you about him in the short time you saw him in practice? 
 BRANDENT ENGLEMON:  You really can't get a feel for a guy just by seeing him or whatnot.  From what I know, him being at West Virginia, he did a great job there.  Hopefully he can come here and do the same thing. 

 Q.  How tough has it been for your own coaching staff, knowing the uncertainty of their future, to try to pull you guys together to get ready? 
 BRANDENT ENGLEMON:  I guess when we're not around, that might be a problem.  When we come, it's strictly business.  Those type of things might be discussed momentarily, but when it comes down to practice, they're pretty much focused on what we got to do to try and win this game. 

 Q.  With that being said, what do you think this game means to Lloyd Carr?  This is his last game, as well. 
 BRANDENT ENGLEMON:  I think it means the same to him as it would to me because this is my last game being a Wolverine, as well.  I mean, I know he wants to win just as much as we do. 

 Q.  For you as well, can you describe knowing after four years, this is pretty much it. 
 BRANDENT ENGLEMON:  Just going through it, you really don't realize how much you enjoyed being here really.  Now that it's coming to an end, you really want to end on a high note.  We haven't won a Bowl game in four years.  That's what we plan on doing, trying to win this game. 

 Q.  Do you see any differences in Lloyd in the last few weeks in practice? 
 BRANDENT ENGLEMON:  Not really.  He's always kind of joyous, coaching people, doing the same things he's been doing. 

 Q.  Can you talk about that this is his last game? 
 BRANDENT ENGLEMON:  Yes, just like our seniors, he could be put into the same category kind of.  But he's been here longer.  It might mean a lot more to him to win this game. 
 For me, I know it means a lot to me, as well.  I don't know if you can measure how much he cares about winning this game versus how much we care about winning it.  At the end of the day, we all want to win this game, young guys included. 

 Q.  Can you pinpoint a reason as to why you have trouble in Bowls the last couple years? 
 BRANDENT ENGLEMON:  No, I can't pinpoint one particular reason why we haven't been successful in those games.  I know one thing, that the seniors have to play well in order to win this game.  The last time they did win it was in '02, I think, and the seniors played well.  I mean, it's really up to the seniors to play well. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Our next player is cornerback Morgan Trent. 

 Q.  Talk about their offense. 
 MORGAN TRENT:  They're capable of taking it long.  They've got a lot of talent.  Very talented.  They're fast, real quick.  Coach talked about them being in the SEC being quick.  It's true.  They're fast.  You have to get a their numbers.  Running the spread offense they run, you have to get there quick.  You can't give them any space to run around.  We got to get their numbers. 

 Q.  Is this a chance to show that you can win a Bowl game and have success against a mobile quarterback? 
 MORGAN TRENT:  I think so. 

 Q.  Is that any extra motivation? 
 MORGAN TRENT:  Definitely for defense.  Of course, we've heard that all year, we've had trouble with the spreads in the first two games, so we hear we can't do this, they got a mobile quarterback, we got a hard time.  I think we got a lot of determination to go out there and show them we can do that.  Of course we want to win a Bowl game, as well.  It's been too long.  We definitely want to win a game. 

 Q.  How is Tebow different as a quarterback than other mobile quarterbacks you've seen this year? 
 MORGAN TRENT:  He's bigger, a lot bigger.  He's not as quick.  He's fast, you know what I mean, but he'll run you over, I'll say.  He's a lot bigger.  He's not going to run away from you, but he'll run through you. 

 Q.  How do you contain that? 
 MORGAN TRENT:  Hit him and get their numbers.  One person's not usually going to tackle him.  He's big, so he's going to break tackle.  You got to get a lot of people to him to secure the tackle. 

 Q.  How much stock do you put in the differences in speed that is perceived to be there and how much does that motivate you? 
 MORGAN TRENT:  We'll see, you know what I mean, when game time comes.  Of course, everybody has talked about it and everybody will say that the SEC is so much faster, we can't compare.  I guess we're going to find out, you know what I mean.  I know they're fast, but I know we're fast as well.  We'll see come game time. 

 Q.  Did you seek out Coach Rodriguez? 
 MORGAN TRENT:  I haven't.  He's been in practice last two days, been around just watching.  He made a comment that this is our Bowl game and this is Coach Carr's Bowl game, which is very true.  He's kind of behind, you know, what I mean, just in the shadows, not really taking a lead and doing too much. 

 Q.  As a future leader of the team, what do you think your role is to try to go seek him out? 
 MORGAN TRENT:  Yeah, when that time comes, you know what I mean, I'm obviously going to go talk to him and talk with him, pick his brain, him as a coach, get to know him, what he's like, talk to him.  Definitely going to do that when the time is right. 

 Q.  Are you appreciative that he's given the space to this team for this game? 
 MORGAN TRENT:  I think that's important.  He can come in and just kind of be a distraction for us, go ahead and talk about what he wants to do and what he wants to do next year, but he hasn't.  I think that's important.  He understands where we are, we're trying to win a game here.  He made a good point of that. 

 Q.  As focused as you are on this game, is it hard not to think about what it's going to be like? 
 MORGAN TRENT:  Sure, we talk in the locker room what it's going to be like.  We try not to focus on it too much.  That time is going to come soon enough.  We've got a couple weeks and that time will come quickly. 

 Q.  The Bowl game, can you get a feel of what you think it means, Coach Carr, this being it for him? 
 MORGAN TRENT:  I mean, I would think it's going to be big for him.  I mean, of course it is.  Of course, you want to win your last game, you know what I mean.  The seniors that are playing this last game, we want to win for them.  Nobody wants to go out losing their last game, knowing four straight Bowl games, whatever.  So we want to win it for him. 
 He's not being selfish and saying, This is my last game, let's go out there.  He puts them on the seniors, which it is their last game.  We all know it's his last game, too, so we want to win it for him. 

 Q.  Do you expect something different pregame discussion? 
 MORGAN TRENT:  I don't.  I don't personally.  Coach Carr does his thing every week.  He's not about changing it up and putting any focus on anywhere but the team we're playing. 

 Q.  When you got word that it was Coach Rodriguez, what was your initial reaction to that? 
 MORGAN TRENT:  Try to call Ryan Mundy and see what was going on, see what he was like. 

 Q.  Did you talk to him? 
 MORGAN TRENT:  Yeah, he said he was a good coach.  He's been there.  He had fun.  He had a good year this year.  Said it was a good move for us. 

 Q.  What did he say about his defense? 
 MORGAN TRENT:  I didn't talk to him too much, you know what I mean.  I was on the Sidekick with him, so I didn't get to talk with him too in depth. 

 Q.  How much of a distraction was the whole speculation? 
 MORGAN TRENT:  It wasn't that distracting, you know what I mean.  To be honest, we didn't talk about it in the locker room.  You guys would know more than us, people calling up and saying, Guess what, Les Miles is coming.  You know what, we said, Really?  We had no idea.  So everybody else knows more than we do, you know what I mean.  We were too busy practicing and watching film to really have to worry about it. 

 Q.  Do you know how many guys on the team talked about it? 
 MORGAN TRENT:  I have no idea.  I truly don't. 

 Q.  How about the rest of their offense? 
 MORGAN TRENT:  Like I said earlier, speed.  They execute really well is what they do.  They don't make many mistakes.  They drive the ball, have no problems doing that.  They're not going to mess up, so you got to do something to disrupt their offense. 

 Q.  Do you sense urgency with the seniors, because it is their last game, haven't won a Bowl game? 
 MORGAN TRENT:  I would say so.  That stems from the seniors.  But that goes for the whole team.  We're definitely trying to voice to these younger guys how important this is.  This is kind of the first game for next year, not only because it's January 1st, but it kind of sets the tempo.  We want to start off with a win and carry that into next season. 

 Q.  Is there any motivation that Rodriguez is watching you now in practice for the Bowl game, to impress him for next year? 
 MORGAN TRENT:  I'd say so.  It's not a voice, you know what I mean, like, There's coach, just run faster.  It's probably in the back of people's mind that that is going to be my coach next year.  I hope we play hard regardless, but maybe a little extra motivation, sure. 

 Q.  Once you get down there, is there anything you like to do? 
 MORGAN TRENT:  Being in warm weather, I'll just lay there, you know what I mean.  We're only there for a week, so it's really game week when we get down there.  We're not going to have much time to lay around.  We'll have a little bit of time.  I'm going to be outside as much as I can. 

 Q.  You're not playing on the offensive side of the ball any more.  Are you excited to see the brand of offense he's bringing? 
 MORGAN TRENT:  I am.  I'm excited to see.  I think we're all excited to see what he brings, not only offense, but what are we going to do with strength and conditioning, what changes are really going to be made just around the whole building, you know what I mean.  I think everyone's excited, anxious. 
 But, like we said, once Florida's over, then we'll worry about it. 

 Q.  Have you talked among yourselves about your position coaches, what had become of them? 
 MORGAN TRENT:  We have no idea, you know what I mean.  We truly don't.  I wonder, but that's it, you know what I mean.  You can't really wonder too much or put too much emphasis on it just 'cause you got to look at the task at hand.  You know what I mean?  We don't want to worry about anything else but Florida.  We don't want to get down there and get embarrassed at all.  We want to go handle this game. 

 Q.  Coaches say anything to you to keep you focused on this game? 
 MORGAN TRENT:  They say enough, you know what I mean.  I don't think that's anything extra.  They want to win regardless.  Regardless of coaching changes, who is going to be here, who is not going to be here, our coaches want to win.  That's not going to change.  We're not going down there half hearted to see what happens.  We're going down there to win.  After that, we'll see what happens. 
 THE MODERATOR:  We have quarterback Chad Henne. 

 Q.  We've heard a lot about the Florida offense.  What have you seen of their defense? 
 CHAD HENNE:  Obviously, everybody knows they have great speed and they definitely have a lot of talent up there.  But they're also young.  They have a lot of freshmen and sophomores playing in there.  I mean, in some cases they're vulnerable to get beat.  But they're definitely disciplined and play very well. 

 Q.  How has the time off been for you, with injuries and all that stuff? 
 CHAD HENNE:  It's been very good.  Two weeks off, I couldn't ask for anything more.  Get me a lot healthier and stronger.  With another two weeks remaining, definitely get me back where I need to be. 

 Q.  (Question regarding the Ohio State game)? 
 CHAD HENNE:  I mean, it was tough.  I mean, without being able to lift for four or five weeks, just very weak, pretty much no muscle around my shoulder at all, it was difficult for me to play. 
 But, I mean, you just got to fight through it.  Luckily enough, I mean, I won't need surgery or anything on it.  It looks pretty good for the future. 

 Q.  Are you a hundred percent now? 
 CHAD HENNE:  I mean, I'm pretty close.  I don't know what percent I am, but I know I'm getting better.  I'm definitely improving.  My strength's coming back. 

 Q.  Between you, Mike, the offensive line, how much are you looking forward to trying to field a healthy offense? 
 CHAD HENNE:  I mean, I think in practice we're definitely improving and definitely getting a lot better and meshing together.  I think these last couple weeks we came together, got the rhythm of the plays back, we're establishing the run again, making a lot of plays out there. 

 Q.  Did it take a while to kind of get that back, the chemistry? 
 CHAD HENNE:  Not much.  I mean, the offensive line, we know we need to establish the run game starting off in the beginning of the game.  The passing game's always been there.  I mean, a lot of guys are coming out, they're working harder.  Just get this win.  We want to bust our butts, do everything we can to come out with a victory. 

 Q.  How important is this game for defining your legacy and this class's legacy? 
 CHAD HENNE:  I think we already established our legacy.  I mean, four years here, one game's not going to make a difference.  But we definitely want to go out in the right way, play our best game we definitely can.  Most of us are looking for the next level.  One of these games is going to make a difference.  We're going to put that on us, our senior leadership is going to provide that. 

 Q.  As quick as their offense is, does that put more urgency on you guys to score a lot of points? 
 CHAD HENNE:  We're definitely going to have to control the ball.  I think time of possession is going to be a big key, not turning the ball over on our side of the field.  Like I said, establish the run quick.  That will open up some passing lanes for us, kind of keep it balanced. 

 Q.  What are your initial impressions of Coach Rodriguez? 
 CHAD HENNE:  I really haven't talked to him at all.  He just addressed the team a little bit ago, that he's excited to be here.  Seems like a great guy.  Probably a good fit for us. 

 Q.  All the seniors have something after the Bowl game.  Do you feel because you didn't have a healthy year, that you have a chance to actually show what you can do in the game? 
 CHAD HENNE:  Oh, definitely.  I think a lot of us have that to prove.  I mean, with the injuries happening, kind of set you back.  I mean, one game, definitely against a great opponent, show what you have to do and can do, definitely improve our status. 

 Q.  Do you feel a feeling of this is it for some of you guys?  You're already the underdog, a little trickery out there, throw caution to the wind, try to get it done? 
 CHAD HENNE:  I mean, I think we're going to do everything we can.  We're going to put everything out on the field we can do.  We have a great game plan going in.  We're not going to hold any strings back.  We're going to go out and tackle them and show what Michigan's really about. 

 Q.  What does this game mean to you? 
 CHAD HENNE:  I mean, it's just another opportunity against a great team, to go out there, play a great game.  I mean, just end the season on the right way.  I mean, as a senior we haven't won a Bowl game yet.  Definitely want to come out victorious in this Bowl game. 

 Q.  Between wanting to play well, show what you can do, do you worry about pressing too much in this game? 
 CHAD HENNE:  Not at all.  I mean, I'm going to be relaxed, calm, like I always am.  Preparation I always say is the key.  I'm very prepared.  I mean, two weeks left, we're definitely going to come back and be a great offense and defense, show everybody what Michigan was about this year. 

 Q.  How much of a distraction has the whole coaching speculation been for you guys? 
 CHAD HENNE:  I mean, it was a lot of chaos that went on.  I mean, for us it really didn't matter as players.  I mean, we're going to be here at Michigan.  Especially for us seniors, I mean, it doesn't really affect us.  Our leadership really kind of took over to say, Hey, we have one more game left with our team, with Coach Carr, and we're going to concentrate on that. 

 Q.  Is it good going into a Bowl game not wondering who the new coach is going to be? 
 CHAD HENNE:  Could be.  Definitely a great distraction for some of the younger guys.  Now they know.  They're kind of just out there proving themselves again.  Coach Rodriguez has been at practice.  Guys are trying to prove what they can do, see if they get a starting job next year. 

 Q.  Spent a lot of time in the pro style offense.  How do you think a spread style offense will work at Michigan? 
 CHAD HENNE:  Obviously it's going to definitely be a big change for us.  Us quarterbacks coming in aren't really running quarterbacks, even though I was in high school, I ran a spread.  I mean, it's difficult.  But you're going to have to bring in the right guys for that.  Obviously we have great talent here.  Our guys are going to do what they're coached to do. 
 But it's going to be an adjustment.  It's not going to happen next year, I don't think.  He's going to have to work it in. 

 Q.  Do you think you'd ever see the day when a spread offense was run in this stadium? 
 CHAD HENNE:  There's been Michigan quarterbacks that have ran the spread a little bit, running quarterbacks, especially in the late '80s and stuff, quarterbacks that can run.  I mean, it's a change.  We'll see how it works. 

 Q.  How do you think Ryan will adapt? 
 CHAD HENNE:  We'll see.  He's pretty athletic.  Obviously, like I said before, we're not spread quarterbacks.  I mean, we'll see what they're going to do with him, if they're going to keep him here, if he wants to stay here.  They're going to have to kind of mesh around him because he's definitely a great quarterback.  It would be a waste to get rid of him. 
 THE MODERATOR:  We have linebacker Chris Graham. 

 Q.  Are you worried about distractions with all the coaching stuff, Coach Carr leaving, new guy coming, all that? 
 CHRIS GRAHAM:  No, not at all.  Not at all.  Our main focus is the one game here to play.  It's a big game for me.  It's been a great place.  Playing against some great guys on another team that aren't going to give you a lot of looks.  Our focus is who are we playing and how can I contain the team that's a big threat. 
 The coaching job, that's the business part of this.  They take care of that.  I just try to keep the guys focused and go straight ahead. 

 Q.  What impresses you about Florida that you've seen on film? 
 CHRIS GRAHAM:  It's a different type of spread.  It's a team that can run the ball down your throat, just pound, pound, pound the team up the field with the running game, and also can give you a threat in the passing game.  Tebow can take off and make plays. 
 You have a spread look and you have a running game that's more of like a (pie?) look.  You just try to contain them.  This team doesn't just give you one or two looks, it switches up to disguise things a lot.  You have to be very knowledgeable of what they're doing. 

 Q.  (Question regarding comparing the speed in the SEC, Big-10)? 
 CHRIS GRAHAM:  That's the talk, people want to make that comparison.  But we have speed guys, they have speed guys.  We're up north where we take in the cold, and they have summer all year long.  You can try to compare those two, but we have speed guys as well.  When they battle together, just who comes out the best, who can really compare on the field, dominate. 

 Q.  How do you contain a guy like Tebow? 
 CHRIS GRAHAM:  You contain him in different ways.  He's going to make plays.  He's a quarterback, you know.  When he spreads you out to make guys go deep, he's a threat by running the ball.  You try to contain him, keep him in one area, not give him enough space where he can get a good amount of yardage.  Try to keep him under the first down so your defense can off the field, get the ball back to the offense.  Keep him on the bench as much as possible. 

 Q.  What does this game mean to you, being the last game? 
 CHRIS GRAHAM:  It's a big thing for me because I haven't won a Bowl game.  I want to win a Bowl game.  I'm determined to win a Bowl game.  For a lot of us, we're making our way out into the world.  This is the first start where things can keep going. 
 It feels like a lot of pressure on my shoulders to get things done.  But I'm going to have fun.  It's a celebration for guys working hard to get to this Bowl game and I'm going to enjoy it. 

 Q.  How much do you pay attention to the whole coaching thing and the media? 
 CHRIS GRAHAM:  I look 'cause I'm a human being.  I do look.  I want to see who's coming in and I want to see who the younger guys have, you know, because I am like a big brother, still will be a big brother to these guys.  I pay attention to it.  But it's not a big distraction for me because I have things of my own I have to do.  Try to keep the younger guys excited to see who's coming in and out.  But also you still have the rest of the season to finish up, you know. 
 This last game is important.  Next year is the future.  We'll deal with it at that time. 

 Q.  Have you gotten a good feel for Coach Rodriguez? 
 CHRIS GRAHAM:  I haven't been around him a lot but I got to meet him yesterday.  Seems like a very good, humble guy.  He's been around practice watching, trying to feel guys out, learning names.  He seemed humble to me.  Seemed like a humble, caring guy. 

 Q.  How much buzz was there among the younger guys before they knew who it was going to be? 
 CHRIS GRAHAM:  You know, you go off the media.  That's all you can go off of.  Guys are bouncing around, wondering who the media is choosing, is that true.  Whoever Mr. Martin picks you know is going to be a good guy.  I talked to him myself and he was taking his time to choose the guys wisely.  Here we have a great coach.  Comes from a good school.  He's going to come here and do a good thing, too, for these younger guys. 
 I told them just relax, you know, things are going to come.  Try to enjoy your career here.  It's not our business to really get into the coaching thing, but it's your career here for the last four years that are limited and try to do your best as possible no matter who is here. 

 Q.  You said you talked to Mr. Martin.  When was that? 
 CHRIS GRAHAM:  About a week ago.  Just talked to him from a player's point, how is things going, just checking up and making sure that, you know, I'm on his side, a lot of guys are supporting him.  We're really not against whoever comes in.  I know he's going to pick a great coach.  We had just like a normal friendly conversation. 

 Q.  You went to him? 
 CHRIS GRAHAM:  No, just a conversation over the phone. 

 Q.  Did you call him? 
 CHRIS GRAHAM:  I called him.  I called him.  Just talked to him.  The players were calling, older guys were calling, trying to keep that type of relationship with him, let him know we do support him, let him know we look forward to see who he has coming in. 
 It's not a big thing with us, but we just had that relationship, as you get older, who who's coming in, the connections like that. 

 Q.  What do you think this game means for Coach Carr? 
 CHRIS GRAHAM:  I believe it means a lot as well to us.  We're in the same boat.  You know, he's going out as one of the great coaches here.  We're going out as one of the seniors that, you know, could possibly end up with something big on your shoulders, walk away from.  He's going to bring the same intensity he has during the season.  He's going to let guys enjoy it when it's time to enjoy it, but when it's time to put on your hard hat, same thing he's been saying all year, It's time to go to work. 
 It means a lot to him.  It means a lot to us. 

 Q.  Is it nice to not have the head coaching decision not open? 
 CHRIS GRAHAM:  Yeah.  Now that it's over with, I think a lot of guys can focus on getting to work.  A lot of guys were I think a little bit distracted.  As far as older guys, we were like, Hey, look forward.  We're not worried about what their business is to take care of.  But now that things are set, now we can really get these guys to look forward and put the hard hats back on and get to work.  This is our game plan now.  It's not our game plan to go out there and search for a coach.  So let's get back to work. 

 Q.  There were a lot of players voicing displeasure with Martin.  Is that sort of what motivated you to call him up? 
 CHRIS GRAHAM:  The older guys talked to us, we talked to the older guys.  Guys just want to know that a good coach is coming in, which we do have a good coach.  That was just the thing.  A lot of guys do keep in touch.  A lot of guys do keep the same motives that I am with the younger guys, make sure everyone is really focused.  They was pretty much giving advice to stay focused, not worry about this whole process, but also to just keep that support and let him know that everybody's not against him or he's taking too long to do things.  He's taking enough time to get things right. 

 Q.  Did he tell you at all what you thought about you calling him? 
 CHRIS GRAHAM:  I mean, it meant a lot to him, give him support.  He wants to keep that type of relationship with us guys leaving because, you know, we're a big part to this university, always will be from now on, being brothers and alums to this university.  It's always good to have that type of connection going on in life because you can be anywhere, at a gas station or anything, and next thing you know there is one of your brothers beside you which you probably don't even know.  It's a good connection.  Michigan goes a long way in this world. 
 THE MODERATOR:  We have Jamar Adams. 

 Q.  Can you talk about Tebow, what you've seen on tape. 
 JAMAR ADAMS:  He's a good player.  He throws the ball well, throws the deep ball well.  He does a good job of breaking tackles.  He's strong.  He's a really competitive guy.  I feel like that he is like the leader of the offense.  I mean, as he goes, the offense goes, so... 

 Q.  What do you have to do to contain him? 
 JAMAR ADAMS:  You just got to tackle him, you know what I mean?  You got to tackle him, get him on the ground, don't let him get extra yardage.  That's basically what you have to do against that guy, tackle him and try to frustrate him.  Get a little pressure on him, don't let him sit in the pocket and move around on you. 

 Q.  How much of a distraction was the whole coaching decision? 
 JAMAR ADAMS:  It wasn't really a distraction to me.  We still have our same coaches still coaching the same things, the same way.  It wasn't really a big distraction in that sense because nothing really changed around us.  But I'm a senior, so I don't have to think about next year, per se.  For this year, there's no distractions. 

 Q.  Is it nice to have it over and done with? 
 JAMAR ADAMS:  What? 

 Q.  The whole speculation of who is going to coach next year. 
 JAMAR ADAMS:  It really didn't mean anything.  Didn't move me either way.  I'm a Michigan man forever, so I'm always going to be concerned about the program.  But we were worried about winning ballgames here, playing Florida, who is extremely talented.  Got to worry about that offense. 

 Q.  Knowing you're going against a potent offense, this is your last game, do you think about scouts are going to be watching? 
 JAMAR ADAMS:  This is the last time I play for Michigan, so it's the last time I get the opportunity to put that helmet on, uniform, play for the coaches I love to play for.  That means more to me than anything.  This is the last time I'll ever play for the University of Michigan.  That's the biggest thing on my mind right now, for our team, for the players on our team, to go out in a blaze of glory. 

 Q.  Did you talk to the younger guys to keep them focused on those goals instead of the new coach on the sidelines? 
 JAMAR ADAMS:  That's part of being a leader, keeping them focused on the here and now.  The here is where we are in Ann Arbor practicing for this game.  You got to keep them focused on that, the here and now.  That's what you have to live life like, not what's coming in the future, not what went in the past, but what you're dealing with at the present moment. 

 Q.  How important is this game for defining this class? 
 JAMAR ADAMS:  I don't know.  I mean, played about 38 games here.  So one game is going to determine our legacy, our reputation here?  That's kind of sad.  But we really want to win this game.  We haven't won a Bowl game since I've been here.  We really want to win this Bowl game. 
 1 out of 38, I don't know, you do the math. 

 Q.  For Mike Hart, how frustrated have you been with how the second half of the season went with injuries? 
 JAMAR ADAMS:  Definitely wanted to get on the field, definitely wanted to be out there with this team helping Michigan win.  It was frustrating because he couldn't do some of the things he wanted to do physically.  He was unable to.  You know, I was frustrated as well.  I thought Mike had a great chance of catching some of the awards that were out there because he's having a tremendous season.  That was the past.  He has to look forward to the season.  I think that's what Mike is doing a good job of, looking forward to this game, playing his last game in this uniform. 

 Q.  How did he look in practice? 
 JAMAR ADAMS:  He looked good in practice. 

 Q.  Have you had a chance since coach announced his retirement to say anything to him? 
 JAMAR ADAMS:  Yeah, I stopped by, talked to him, told him I really appreciate what he did for me, appreciate him recruiting me, appreciate him showing me what it's like to be a man, be a Michigan man really, how to live life under the microscope, but also have character, leadership, characteristics that many people may not see or do see and don't recognize.  But he has some tremendous characteristics that any young man, you'd have to eat that up, you have to take that, soak that in, because it's invaluable.  Those are the things I wanted to relay to him, that I felt, you know, were irreplaceable, that he got the opportunity to learn from him. 

 Q.  Did he just listen or have more words of wisdom? 
 JAMAR ADAMS:  He just told me to continue to work hard, you don't know what you're going to get in life.  But as long as you got the next day to wake up, you got something to look forward to.  As long as your family's healthy, you're healthy, you got everything in life to look forward to.  Just got to keep fighting no matter what happens in life.  So he's always coaching. 

 Q.  What has his demeanor been like in practice the last few days?  More relaxed? 
 JAMAR ADAMS:  Basically the same to me.  You know what I mean?  He doesn't talk about anything outside of the game plan, outside of, you know, technique in football, tackling, blocking.  Since I've been here, he's talking about the same things:  tackling, blocking, executing your assignment, playing with great enthusiasm and great effort and going out there to win for Michigan. 

 Q.  Did you call Ryan? 
 JAMAR ADAMS:  I called him just because I care about Michigan, talked to him.  It was a private conversation.  I did call and talk to him.  It thought it was important to see his perspective.  He played here.  He played there.  He knows the coaches there, he knows the coaches here.  Just wanted to see his perspective on things. 

 Q.  Did he talk to you about his experiences? 
 JAMAR ADAMS:  It was a private conversation. 

 Q.  Do you have any idea how many guys called him? 
 JAMAR ADAMS:  Some of the older guys are real close to Ryan.  He's a real good friend of ours.  A good number of guys in the upper class, seniors called him.  Not a lot of guys that are going to play with the next coaching staff.  But the guys that knew Mundy best, we called him. 
 THE MODERATOR:  We have defensive tackle Will Johnson. 

 Q.  What did you think when you heard it was Florida? 
 WILL JOHNSON:  Florida?  I was excited to play them.  They're a great team.  Come from a great conference.  It will be a real challenge. 

 Q.  Tebow seems to come at guys.  May end up in a situation where he's trying to go over you.  Is that a challenge, kind of fun? 
 WILL JOHNSON:  I mean, yeah, it's always a challenge.  He's a downhill runner.  He's not going to try to outrun you to the sidelines.  He'll come out and hit you in the face.  I see it as a challenge.  I'm excited to play a guy like that. 

 Q.  Was this team in need of a little break physically after the Ohio State game? 
 WILL JOHNSON:  Yeah, maybe we got beat up a little bit at the end of the season.  Yeah, maybe a break was necessary.  Everybody needs a couple days off.  Yeah, I think we're real healthy right now.  We're going into a Bowl game excited, ready to go. 

 Q.  Have you met Coach Rodriguez? 
 WILL JOHNSON:  Yes. 

 Q.  What are your impressions? 
 WILL JOHNSON:  Great coach.  Watched him on TV.  Seemed like a great coach there.  I don't know too much about him personally.  Worry about that January 3rd. 

 Q.  Did you go out in the last couple days since he's been named trying to do some research on him? 
 WILL JOHNSON:  Not really.  Not really.  I'm worried about the Bowl game right now.  We'll worry about that next year or couple weeks. 

 Q.  Is that easy?  This whole thing has been a distraction, at least for all of us.  Can you really focus on the Bowl game? 
 WILL JOHNSON:  I mean, I don't know everybody's position, what they think about it.  But I'm just trying to concentrate on the Bowl game, send the coaches out on a win.  I'm excited to play Florida.  That's next year's team.  He wasn't part of this year's team.  He said that.  He's letting Coach Carr and his staff coach the game, not be a distraction to the team. 

 Q.  Do you appreciate that about him, that he wants this team to finish out as this team? 
 WILL JOHNSON:  Yeah, definitely.  I respect that greatly.  I don't see that a coach would come in and try to do that.  Yeah, I respect him doing that.  I think he's just trying to get things situated for next year. 

 Q.  Do you see a noticeable difference in Michigan's offense, healthy, back? 
 WILL JOHNSON:  Yeah, they're running a lot better the ball, passing.  Yeah, I mean, they're coming together as a team.  I think we'll see a good offense on January 1st. 

 Q.  What went through your mind when your coach finally made his decision? 
 WILL JOHNSON:  There were little clues he was going to retire.  You can't blame him or be mounrnful over it.  It's his decision.  He wanted to retire, yeah. 

 Q.  Now that it's done, were there clues we didn't see, things in practice? 
 WILL JOHNSON:  No.  No.  I mean, you guys probably knew as much as I did.  No, he coached the same every day.  It was just a great guy to be around, yeah. 

 Q.  Is he still coaching the same? 
 WILL JOHNSON:  Yeah.  No, yeah, he's the same old Lloyd Carr. 
 THE MODERATOR:  We have Tim Jamison. 

 Q.  Talk about Tebow. 
 TIM JAMISON:  He's a scrambler.  He's a good thrower.  We've seen both during the course of this season.  So we're preparing well for him. 

 Q.  Is he a little different in that he'll try to run over you rather than away from you? 
 TIM JAMISON:  I think guys that try to tackle him take bad angles, and that kind of makes it look like he can power guys.  But he's a good guy.  If we do our assignments, we should get the job done. 

 Q.  What's impressed you the most about Florida on film? 
 TIM JAMISON:  What's impressed me the most?  I would say they play with a lot of energy during the whole course of the game.  What I notice on film, they blow a team out.  They don't sub the backup guys.  I see the first string still in.  That's what I see when I watch film.  They have great motors, they have great skill players throughout the team. 

 Q.  What are your initial impressions of Coach Rodriguez? 
 TIM JAMISON:  He's a great guy.  I'm glad to have him as the head coach for next season.  I had the privilege of meeting him, introducing myself to him.  He's been at a couple of our practices so far. 

 Q.  What do you like about him? 
 TIM JAMISON:  I haven't really got a chance to talk to him, but he seems like a good guy when I met him.  We shook hands.  Didn't get a chance to sit down and talk one-on-one yet.  But hopefully we do have sometime in the future. 

 Q.  Despite how much you're focused on the Bowl, is it hard not to think a little bit about what things will be like and how they'll change? 
 TIM JAMISON:  Well, of course there are going to be some changes.  We just got to focus on this game.  Like this is a big game.  We can't have like no other distractions that's going to take our focus off this team.  Our main concern is this game.  That's what we're preparing for. 

 Q.  The fact you guys haven't won a Bowl game in a while, how much does that kind of add to wanting to play well against Florida? 
 TIM JAMISON:  Like our whole team got a mindset that we're determined we're going to go down there, we know the atmosphere is going to be like facing an away team because it's right in their backyard.  We're going down there prepared mentally and physically and conditioned.  We're anxious to get down there. 

 Q.  Anything about a Bowl trip that you like? 
 TIM JAMISON:  The Bowl trip?  Well, I like doing the traveling when we go to the Bowls.  I like being down there.  Usually the Bowls have good events, so that's the good thing about it.  Brings like a lot of fun in it, taking away from the business side.  That's one thing I like about the Bowls. 

 Q.  Do you remember experiences off the field from past Bowl games you've gone to? 
 TIM JAMISON:  Last year went to Disneyland.  That was my first time going there.  That was a great time.  But usually the Bowls have great events for the players and teams. 

 Q.  How much is this about sending Lloyd out the right way, this Bowl game? 
 TIM JAMISON:  Our focus is to win the game.  If we win the game, that will be a bonus for Coach Carr.  But our focus is on this game.  Coach Carr is a great coach.  He's coaching us hard.  He hasn't changed since he retired.  He still coaches us hard.  That's what we look forward to when we get to the Bowl game. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you.  



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT