UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 13, 2006
Jake Long
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 JAKE LONG:  You know, it's always a hostile environment whatever school you go to.  No matter where you go, the other school is going to hate you and dislike you.   
 So, our fans are really excited and I'm sure theirs are, too.  It's just a great rivalry, two great schools, and it's really intense.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 JAKE LONG:  I went with one of my buddies, I think it was sophomore year high school and he actually wore a red coat, so we were getting booed at and yelled at the whole game, so that wasn't cool.   
 It was a good game.  You could definitely see the intensity from both teams and you know the type of rivalry it is, especially going up against Michigan, you're worrying all about it.  That's why you come to the school playing the great games like this and the great rivalries.  It's a lot of fun and a great game.   
  
  Q.  What is it like to be in a Michigan/Ohio State game?   
 JAKE LONG:  It's intense.  My first year when I played, it was down there, and it was the loudest place I had ever been to and one of the biggest.  It's just an intense, intense game.  Everyone is fired up and ready to go.  It's usually for a championship and so everybody is ready to go and two great times.  It's intense all around.   
  
  Q.  Do you think it would be tougher to play in this game or wear a blue coat in the stands?   
 JAKE LONG:  I'd say playing, because you have to deal with all of the crowd and especially going down to Columbus and playing and having to play against the great players you have to play against, so I'd definitely say playing.   
  
  Q.  Could the team be in a better position going into this game, the players you have --   
 JAKE LONG:  Absolutely, because we have a lot of seniors and a lot of guys that have played in Ohio and a lot of guys that have won championships here.  So everybody knows what it takes and knows the environment we are going to go into, and they can help the younger guys and really step up and show their leadership this week.   
 I think having a lot of seniors and a lot of mature guys really helps out on this team.   
  
  Q.  What's your message to all of the doubters from last year?   
 JAKE LONG:  You know, we're not even focusing on that.  We said it from the beginning of the season, we're just playing for this team and the guys within the building.  We didn't listen to any of the critics, any of the public or anything like that.  Even now, we're still playing for each other and just going out there and not listening to anybody and do what we've got to do.   
  
  Q.  Has Coach Carr done anything extra motivation-wise?   
 JAKE LONG:  I really don't think that anything needs to be said.  Everybody knows the goals we set and what's at stake in this game.  I think everybody is going to be fired up by themselves and there will be no motivation needed because everybody is so motivated and fired up this week.   
  
  Q.  What are your impressions of the Ohio State defense?   
 JAKE LONG:  They are a great defense.  They are definitely going to be the best defense we face all year.  They have strong, powerful guys up front and a great linebacking core.   
 You know, they play well together and they are the best team in the country, and you know, it's going to be a huge test for our offense and our whole team.  You know, we've just got to stay focused and have a good week in practice and get ready to go.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 JAKE LONG:  You know, they haven't lost, and the BCS and coaches have them No. 1 and I believe they are the best team.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 JAKE LONG:  I really haven't watched much film on them yet, but I know the guys they have over there are quick and really athletic.  But definitely going up against LaMarr is going to help me against anybody you play against, and I'll know more about them today.  I know they are athletic and quick and good at the ends.   
  
  Q.  When Bo was in here, he said that every day in practice they would do something to prepare for Ohio State; do you guys do something once a week, how does that work?   
 JAKE LONG:  I don't recall ever practicing for them.  Maybe the coaches did secretly and we really never knew.  I don't remember practicing for them.  But, you know, there's always that mind-set in the back of your mind, you think of Ohio State, Michigan, and the great rivalry.  They are always in the back of your mind and know that you're going to be able to play them at the end of the year.  You're thinking about it, but practicing, I don't think we did.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 JAKE LONG:  He's just a great player all around.  Everything he does is 100% and he's a great leader.  Just the stuff he brings on out the field and the moves he has, the quickness, the power he has, that's what makes him one of the greatest D-Ends in the country.  Last year he was a great player, too, but I think this year he really matured and took his senior role to the top and really took the off-season in stride and worked well and he's become a great player this year and one of the best teams in the country.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 JAKE LONG:  You know, we're just -- we've got to go down there and play our best game and whatever happens, happens.  Two undefeated teams going in there makes it even greater of a rivalry.  You know, we're just going to play our best game and whatever happens, happens.   
  
  Q.  How bad to you want to win this one for Coach Carr, considering his record against Tressel?   
 JAKE LONG:  Well, I think we went out this whole year and wanted to win it for Coach, because of all the flak he was getting for last year.  We wanted to go out there and win for Coach and this is just another game and another game we want to go out there and try to win for him.   
  
  Q.  Last year -- said Coach Carr is a great coach and anybody who can't see that doesn't know the game.  Do you feel like, I told you so?   
 JAKE LONG:  A little bit I think, but we still have a lot more work to do and a lot more things to prove.  It can be -- that answer will be at the end of the season, you know, see what we do.  But he's just a great guy, great coach like I said, and he makes everyone better around you.   
  
  Q.  Why did you feel so passionate about that?   
 JAKE LONG:  Just because all of the things he's done for this program, this team and every player that goes through here.  He cares for you like you are his own son.  He treats you like an adult and then he's your father figure.  He just knows what he's talking about, great guy, very passionate and like I said, we was catching all that flak for last year and everybody was doubting him and saying, you know, he's not a good coach, that really fired the whole team up and really wanted to get his respect back and get the respect to the team back.  So we went out there every day to do well and win for him.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 JAKE LONG:  Well, yeah, Ohio State is a great team, you know, both sides of the ball and special teams.  We've done real well I feel as a team.  They are a great team, every part of it, and every part of their program is top-notch, their coaches are top-notch.  It's going to be a challenge and trying to match that.   
  
  Q.  You go against your defense every day, what makes them so good?   
 JAKE LONG:  The athleticism they have got, they are big, they are strong and they play well together.  That's why I feel we've had success on the offensive line because we have to go up against them every day.  They stop the run every Saturday.   
 So if rubbing on them, we can run on anybody.  So just practicing against them and going up against some of the best guys in the country makes the whole offense better.   
  
  Q.  Are you saying y'all have run on them?   
 JAKE LONG:  Yeah, they will stop us and then we'll make some runs, but it's pretty evenly-matched up here.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 JAKE LONG:  You know, it's probably amazing.  I know Mark talks about it all the time, growing up in Ohio and Massey and Crable, it's probably just a rush going back and getting to play in front of their hometown and all of their family and friends.  I'm sure they will be really fired up and ready to play.   
  
  Q.  What is it about big-name players that allow them to do so well this year on a big stage?   
 JAKE LONG:  I mean, they are just -- they are great players.  Nothing will get in their way of focus or anything.  You know, they come out every day and play hard and what makes all of them great is they can play without the ball.  They can block and help out the entire offense.  They love to play under pressure, and I think that's when they play the best is when they are under pressure.  They just come out every day, working harder and they are great players and don't buckle under the pressure.   
  
  Q.  Handling the ball better, is that an attitude on the line?   
 JAKE LONG:  Absolutely.  Last year we were ninth in Big 10 rushing and had a down year.  That was one of our points of emphasis coming back in the summer and spring is we wanted to establish an offensive line and running game because that's what Michigan prides itself on.  We really worked on it during spring Michigan camp and I feel it's paid off.  I think it started with the offensive line, and we really bought into it in the summer and worked hard and became a good line.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 JAKE LONG:  It's very important.  Every week we have to come out and try to play our best, and especially going up against Ohio State, they are going to be the greatest defense we face this year.  It will be our biggest test.  We have to come out, prepare hard and really try to play our best game.   
  
  Q.  What's going through your head on game day?   
 JAKE LONG:  You know, you get so excited and you get little butterflies, but really, myself, I just try to focus on the game plan and focus on the team we're playing and all of the nervousness and everything just goes away.  All of the excitement comes in and once the ball snaps for the first time, you're just focused on the game plan and the game and nothing else matters.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT