ING NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
November 2, 2009
Kurt Fearnley
Edith Hunkeler
Meb Keflezighi
Derartu Tulu
Mary Wittenberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   RICHARD FINN: We'd like to welcome you to our Monday Marathon ING New York City Marathon news conference. Here we have the four champions. If they thought yesterday was a challenging day, we make today fairly challenging as well.   
 They've been up already early. All four of them have already been up to the Empire State Building. When you win in New York, you go to the top of the world. They'll be here for the news conference here, then to the next door to the World Marathon Majors luncheon.   
 Later this afternoon several of them will be going to close the bell, the closing of the bell at the New York Stock Exchange. One of our champions will be on the Letterman Show this afternoon, and then all four of them will be guests at Madison Square Garden for the New York Knicks game tonight. We hope that maybe you can bring the Knicks a win like you guys did yesterday.   
 The race was only yesterday, and I think our memories are all very fresh in our minds. But just to help us take a look back and remember what a fabulous day it was for the 40th running, we've got a quick little video for you to take a look at.   
 MARY WITTENBERG: We had a really good day yesterday. On reflection, it had destiny written all over it. For our 40th running, I'm not going to say anymore that we're just about being the best. We're about being the biggest and the best now. 43,475 finishers.   
 Just came from a charity breakfast where every $10,000 matters in making a difference for AIDS, homeless shelters, fighting cancer, getting kids running. $24 million raised for charities throughout the city, throughout this nation, throughout the world.   
 The city was abuzz in a way we haven't seen it in a long time. It's clearly New York City's best day. Five wins for Edith. Kurt, by an inch, won his fourth in a row.   
 To add to our honor roll, a towering figure, not only in this sport of running, but in the world of women leaders in Derartu standing on our top step.   
 Then, for the first American man in so many decades to stand on the top step of a major, major marathon. For it to have been in New York City; for it to have been with New York Road Runners; for it to have been on this course where there has been so much triumph but we've had our share of tragedy; for the winning move to have been made steps away from our tragic loss where Ryan Shay fell; for it to be a man from a running camp we've supported for close to a decade, and the camp that started the resurgence of American distance running camps; for it to be the man who in 2002 ran such a significant debut here and started American men running back here; for it to be the man wearing USA on his chest yesterday; and for it to be a man that all of us epitomizes the American spirit and the American dream.   
 I've got to say it may have been his dream, but yesterday felt an awful lot like it was a shared dream, and certainly our shared dream for Meb Keflezighi to win gold at the ING New York City Marathon.   
 We've got a lot of facts and figures, and we'll share them all with you to support the day it was. But I just want to say on behalf of all of us at New York Road Runners it truly was a day we dreamed of.   
 I'd like to say a very special thank you to our crew. We're pretty tough on ourselves, and it's been a few years since we've been able to say it was a really good day, and it was a really good day. And we have a team of 120 New York Road Runners who really made this happen.   
 And in this room I just want to thank a couple. Wheelchair race again coordinator, Bob Laufer. To be part of terrific trio that supports and does all we do in American and international running all the time.   
 So on behalf of our team, first, I thank that team. But on behalf of our whole team at the end of the day, numbers and metrics may support what kind of day it was, but usually the biggest thing that determines how we all throughout New York City, throughout the nation, throughout the world look on the day is the show that we see up front.   
 For our 40th running, I think it's the best show we've ever seen. So thank you to each of our athletes and champions today.   
 RICHARD FINN: Thank you. We're going to ask each of our four champions to say a couple of words. Maybe upon reflection, looking back at what happened yesterday. So we'll start with Edith, Kurt, Derartu, and then Meb. Edith?   
 EDITH HUNKELER: I'm still very happy that I won yesterday. Here it's the fifth win in five starts. Now I can believe what happened yesterday.   
 And it was a tough race. I've never seen such a big women's team, you know. To be the winner, it's super, super cool to be the best. Yes, I enjoy it today, the whole day, it's great.   
 RICHARD FINN: It's always a little extra super cool to win here in New York, isn't it?   
 EDITH HUNKELER: Yeah, it is. New York is a big city. Everyone knows it, and to win here is fantastic.   
 RICHARD FINN: Kurt went to the Jets game afterwards, so maybe that wasn't the best part of his day.   
 KURT FEARNLEY: I'm a bit of a fan of NFL, so this is the first game I've seen one. And I've been traveling to the states since I was 14, and I always wanted to go to a game. This is the first time that I've been in the right city at the right time. Although I had to catch a car immediately from the press conference to get there, and hadn't showered and kind of stumbled up a few flights of stairs to get to my place, it was worth it. It was a fantastic atmosphere.   
 The day yesterday, I don't know what it's saying, but I won my first race here by 5 minutes, the next year I won by two, the next year I won by 40 seconds, and yesterday I won by. 15 of a second. So I don't know what's happening next year if I'm going to get a win up here. But I'm a little nervous already.   
 It was a tough race. I haven't hurt like that in a long time. Hopefully, I don't have to hurt like that for a long time to come. But, you know, the guy that I was racing is a dead set legend, and to push with him for the last -- he's 44 or 45, and I've never seen him push like this. And he's been racing since '88. So it was a good day.   
 MARY WITTENBERG: I'll add, because I don't know, I didn't see the television broadcast how much this was coming across to all of you. But a perfect temperature of 52 ° at the start, 54 at the finish. 55% humidity at the start, 49% at the finish.   
 But I realize now why you might not have had such a good sense of it at the Mandarin or at the Tavern where miles per hour was 5. But what we felt at the start and that I felt all through that course like I haven't felt it in a decade, winds 14 miles per hour from the northwest.   
 RICHARD FINN: Derartu, as Mary said, a towering figure in this sport, on track, now on the roads. Possibly some reflection of what this means to your career, especially, again, coming back after several not as good years.   
 DERARTU TULU: He yesterday I had been asked how it felt to have had this victory 17 years after my first major victory. Yes, yesterday's victory was a great one for me. And as you said, it was a big victory.   
 I consider this to be a really great accomplishment in my life, and yesterday was a great day. It is a day that I shall never forget for the rest of my life. I'm extremely happy.   
 RICHARD FINN: Has it sunk in, Meb?   
 MEB KEFLEZIGHI: Well, first, I want to say thank you to Mary and her team and ING, and New York Road Runners for bringing me here. It's good to be back in this room again because I was a little emotional at the start.   
 But focusing on the great things what a wonderful day it was yesterday, it's just a dream come true. I don't know, a lot of people ask which was sweeter, the silver medal or the gold medal in New York? But it's pretty close, but I think yesterday was the day that sealed the deal. I think.   
 But to have that big of a field, and to be able to win it over those guys who run 2:04, two times Boston champion, lot of 2:05, 2:06 guys, to win over that was a huge accomplishment.   
 And I got a really great message from Alberto Salazar congratulating me, which was not just for what I've done for the U.S. distance running, but for myself and my family. It was just the sweetest voices mail you can get. I want to say thank you to him, and sent him a text this morning because of the time change.   
 But has it sunk in? Some did. I didn't sleep much last night. I don't usually do, but I was writing down what texts, and I got an email and voice mails, and all full from everywhere. A lot of people said it brought tears to their eyes. They never usually cry in entertainment, with the Super Bowl or things like that, but yesterday was.   
 We were at dinner last night with Mary and they said usually nice guys finish last. But she said it's nice to see nice guys finish first. And that tends to be the word on the street. I'm just going to be happier wearing that USA jersey in New York where I got my Ph.D. I don't know what I've got now, but I've been here many times. Second place, third place. 20th place in the last showing. To overcome the injury, it's just perfect time. It's just much more sweeter. Thank you.   
 RICHARD FINN: Questions for the champions.  
  
  Q. Not only did you win, but you obviously had some time to savor the win. I think there were a few minutes there where you were pretty sure you were going to win it. I'm just wondering in a couple of minutes from the finish when you got there, what kind of thoughts were going through your head at that point?   
 MEB KEFLEZIGHI: As soon as I have broke up right before 24 miles, I was confident that I was going to keep going, you know. Just to be able to along, expand the lead a little more, little more. That gives you a little cushion toward the end, so to savor it, fifth tries and finally get a ride. But when you get a ride, you've just got to enjoy it.   
 I celebrated with about a mile to go. I started pointing a little bit. I said just enjoy this moment. And Coach Larsen always said enjoy the moment, you can't go back. My wife also says after the injury, she said this is a limited time. Enjoy what you're doing. You're not going to look back later on. It just sinks in. She was in tears just because we stayed up late watching the video of the New York City Marathon, talking about the strategy and things like that. Just reflecting what nobody can do.   
 To see me not be able to walk or lift my leg without assistance of my hand, you know, that's what it was emotional. I didn't think I could run again or walk straight again at that point two years ago. So to be able to come and win this, what you dreamed of.   
 In 2002 I think I can do this, but when you can't walk, you can't walk. That's the bottom line. And to be able to win is just much more sweeter.  
  
  Q. There's a poster from the New York Marathon which says New York City, Helen Beck 26.2 Miles. Do you think that reflects a little bit your past years where you have been injured and you were ill?   
 MEB KEFLEZIGHI: Yeah, I mean, the marathon is a marathon. And 26.2 Miles, a lot of things can go wrong. But, you know, when things go right, you know, you recover faster. You'll be able to walk normal. The distance is just grueling itself.   
 But congratulations to the great champions here, and the great champions that are outside that saluted us as we came in. They're all wearing their medal. That is the pride of finishing a marathon, go with what you are capable of doing within your limits. We're obviously a little more talented than others. But to put their hearts into four hours, five hours, six hours-plus, is a huge accomplishment on their part.   
 RICHARD FINN: What will this mean or what kind of reception will she get when she goes back to Ethiopia? First Ethiopian woman to win here?   
 DERARTU TULU: It is a great victory, because as you know after child birth I had been away from the sport for some time. But when I am training and a lot of Ethiopians back home see me, they would ask me, where have you been? We long to see you back again.   
 But I used to be surprised thinking there are so many other runners, how are you still expecting me to accomplish things? But they would say to me, we always long to see you running again and doing great things again. And I realize how much they still expect from me.   
 So I started to tell them, well then, wait a little while for me. I may be able to accomplish something yet. I hope that I can do something good this year. Now I know that they will feel great joy because I am a senior athlete, and I know that all Ethiopians will be very happy with this and will greet me with great joy.  
  
  Q. You're 34 now. So obviously a limited future ahead of you in terms of the number of years you can expect to be running a top marathon. How do you set out your goals? You've won an on little pick silver medal, you've won here. What would your priorities be now in what might be a fairly limited three or four-year time span to accomplish them?   
 MEB KEFLEZIGHI: Well, I'm going to sit with Coach Larsen and discuss what the future holds, and what possibly my next marathon will be.   
 You know, Gharib just ran 2:05:27 at 37. I was a high miler in high school, and I'm still running PRs. To win it at age 34 is a huge accomplishment. I know there are a lot of young guys, but I still believe there is a lot of talent in me and what my God-given talent can do.   
 So I'm pretty optimistic. I just have to get the support. I'll say thank you to Nike who has been with me for 11 years since 1988, and Power Bar since 2007 . But, you know, if those things are in line and what gives me the potential to show my talent, I think we have to be a little bit, you know, decide on which way we want to tackle the next thing.   
 But I think it will be a great opportunity, and if they give me the support, I'd love to keep doing this as long as God is able for me to do it.  
 RICHARD FINN: As you can tell, David is an Englishman, so maybe what he's trying to get at is what about 2012? Is that in your sights?   
 MEB KEFLEZIGHI: Yeah, that definitely is. 2012, and maybe even 2013 with the World Championships. So that's my immediate goals. Used to be the primetime mid 30's or late 30's, like Carlos Lopes at 37 winning a gold medal, and running a PR or world record the year after that. It's inspiration. Being a world champion, Olympic champion this year at 38, with nutrition and doing the right training, and perfect practice makes perfect results and things like that. So I've just got to do what I've been doing, you know.   
 I've been getting into the gym before everybody else up in Mammoth, and leaving the last one. So I've just got to take care of myself a little more. I have a wonderful supporting team from my family and Coach Larsen, and the Mammoth Track Club.   
 Most importantly my wife who has been there every step of the way. I can't say enough words about her. You know, she's seven months pregnant. Instead of her taking a nap, she says you need to get down stairs and nap time, you know. That's how much she cares and she understands the value of the limited time that you describe.   
 If you're going to compete against the best, you need to do what's necessary, and she sacrifices her career to make my dream come true.  
  
  Q. You mentioned yesterday that you might do London in the spring. Is that still your thinking?   
 DERARTU TULU: She's referring to London Olympics.  
  
  Q. The marathon.   
 DERARTU TULU: No, I said that I had planned to run to the London Olympics.  
  
  Q. What about any spring marathon?   
 DERARTU TULU: At the moment I haven't planned anything yet. I will discuss that with my manager.   
 RICHARD FINN: Edith and Kurt, what are your future plans? Especially, again, Kurt, your thoughts about whether being the ING New York City Marathon champion is going to make any difference next week when you're doing what you're doing. But Edith, first. What are your plans? Rest, holiday?   
 EDITH HUNKELER: First rest and think about the rest of the year now. But I will see. I will make the decision in December and see what's going on next year.   
 RICHARD FINN: What would be your next major goal career-wise?   
 EDITH HUNKELER: I really don't know. I reached everything. So after I really want to think about my career and do a decision when It's coming up and the other time is right.   
 RICHARD FINN: Hopefully you'll still be competing, or is this possible that you won't be competing anymore?   
 EDITH HUNKELER: I wasn't thinking about it. Could be I finish my career soon. But I know the time goes really quick. Probably I'm doing the London Olympics, but I really don't know. I'll go step by step and see what happens.   
 KURT FEARNLEY: Career-wise, I think that when I was a kid I always looked up to a few Aussie athletes who won three consecutive gold medals in the same event from Olympics. For me the opportunity is there in 2012 to go three consecutive marathons at a Paralympic games at 31. So that is my long-term, no doubt, I will be on the start line in 2012 to try to go three on the track.   
 New York for me is the biggest outside of the pair limb picks race. And how it's going to effect next week, I don't know. I was spent yesterday. I was a wreck. I've seen the finish line photos of yesterday compared to the last three years, Geez.   
 So today I've got to take off, actually, pretty soon and get on a flight because if I leave tonight I can get back Wednesday morning. If I stay another day, that's Thursday morning. And that gives me a day to get ready to leave for Papua, New Guinea. And I need more than a day.   
 So I get home as soon as I can. And I spent a couple of days sorting through the equipment that's going to get me through the trek. And the little things, the things that finish you a lot of the times, and I'm going to make sure they're taken care of.   
 MARY WITTENBERG: We have a little extra. As I said last night at our dinner we'd like not only the athletes to feel at home, but we love their families to feel at home. And I'm really happy that Kurt will have yet another happy memory from New York. We understand you -- no? Okay. Okay. We'll talk later.   
 KURT FEARNLEY: Yeah, good night.   
 RICHARD FINN: Not sure that was in the script here.  
  
  Q. Can you discuss in some detail what your strategy going into yesterday was and what you figured would be the key points in the race?   
 MEB KEFLEZIGHI: Yeah, let me just -- before I forget what Mary mentioned earlier. The resurgence of U.S. running lot of it goes to Coach Larsen, and Joe for being able to visualize what our U.S. distance runner can go with Dina and I in mind, and Mary, Nike and others were the first originals to start the group and give us credit and give us the opportunity.   
 Post-collegiate, a lot of the guys in the U.S., you know, if you cut our careers collegiate level, where would we be now? And that's a tough one to answer. But a lot of credit goes to them. Now with Coach expanding the group.   
 But going to your question about the strategy, Terrence's last word was be smart. And the question I discussed about who can make a move and when they can do and are they going to be able to last that long or not? We thought maybe if dos Santos goes, you know, let him go if he's the only one. But if you have three, four guys go, then you have to respond. You have to be in the front with them. Stay back.   
 I was giving them some room, you don't want to encourage them to go even faster. I know Hendrick was trying to do that. But I was just staying back. Keep it as efficient as possible. Fuel efficient. That's 4:45, 4:50, I think maybe at that mile we were 4:38 or so. But for me, I didn't think it was, you know, anything crazy like 2004 or 2005. So the whole point was mechanics and efficiency.   
  
  Q. Yesterday you won age 37, in second place was a 41-year-old, third place 34, nearly 35. Can you explain why it is that women of a certain age are enjoying such success? Have you had to adjust your training or your mileage levels as you got older compared to when you were a younger athlete?   
 DERARTU TULU: As you continue running over the years, you learn a lot, and you gain experience from your training, from your competitions. And if you do everything that you set your mind on and if you're determined and you run from the heart, your legs may not be as fast as they used to be, but your mind may be faster.   
 There are things that you have to change with time. For example, I can't do quite the speed work that I used to be able to do, so I have to reduce the speed and listen to my body as I work.  
  
  Q. There seems to be some sort of Renaissance going on in American distance running amongst the guys. I wondered if you can explain some of the reasons behind that. There are a few of you now who are doing well.   
 MEB KEFLEZIGHI: Well, I mean, when you see your competitors going through the high school level where you compete for leagues, CIF's, state meets, nationals, NCAAs, and you get better at professionals, USA Nationals and things like that.   
 Then you go see on the podium the same process that everybody has gone and you see that. It's well, he can do that, she can do that, why can't I? I'm going to the same training program that has built him.   
 So, I think it goes back to credit to 2001. I think we were the original guys to be able to start this. But there's training centers now and clubs that are going around. And it's just, you know, I'm pretty sure when they see doing so well at the Half Marathon and breaking American record 12:56, you know, the same kid is doing some time. Then he's saying if he can do it, I can do it. And hopefully they're doing at the same time thing with me and Dina and Ryan and Nathan.   
 But it's just, you know, Nathan and I competed it twice this year, the Half Marathon and the marathon. He's thinking the same thing. I was not on my best day. I was, you know, I don't know, 40 seconds or 30 seconds behind Meb. Now he ends up winning the New York City Marathon, and I know I can do it.   
 We both thought we could run 2:07. Didn't click that day. But it clicked for me yesterday. He's thinking the same thing I'm thinking. If he can run 60 seconds in the Half Marathon, he's ten seconds ahead of him, then why can't I be the same or a little ahead of him.   
 It's just that confidence among each other that everything training online or things like that. You're going to see what works, what doesn't work.   
 If you think about 2000 where we were and where we are now, it's night and day. But, I know they worked hard as in the past that they did and we also worked hard. But when their day comes, the day comes. Unfortunately some injuries do happen. It's part of the game. But as life you try not to stay too low, and seek guidance. There's a light at the end of the tunnel.   
 I mean, I was up at 2:00 a.m. last night, and writing down my texts and it's full. Everything's full. Mail, email, things like that.   
 But I had my journal with me that I keep. I knew I was in shape to win in 2006. Those are the things. It might not happen in your time when you want it, but when the perfect time comes, it's a great occasion.  
 MARY WITTENBERG: I just want to add part of why yesterday was such a great day is it wasn't only Meb. To your point, 6 out of 10 in that field, and some close to 13 out of 20. And I think we saw I'm really excited about the ripple effect of the total of the day from Meb, to I think we saw a big debut in Jorge Torres.   
 I think Nick had a heck of a run at 24 years old. He may be our next Brian Sell. So I think there is a lot to follow. I just want to add that from our side, the athlete's side and the support side, we just continue to think it's critical to make it worthwhile.   
 We focus a lot on support in the camps, but we've got to make it worth their while from becoming big stars, to the financial support, to the whole thing.   
 So the American talent is there. It's no question. We had a gap in the support system, and then we had a gap in, is it really worth doing what it takes, because there is nothing easy to do what it takes to be as accomplished as they are. I just wanted to add those additional thoughts.  
  
  Q. It feels like you're now the world record holder of 2:09 times. Do you think you have to lift the mental barrier to go under the 2:09?   
 MEB KEFLEZIGHI: One of my great assets that God's given me is consistency and recovery. Yeah, I'm definitely I thought even like Mary mentioned earlier, the wind was a big factor. But since 2005 or, correct me if I'm wrong, but 2005 or 2004, I thought I could run 2:07:43 or faster on this course. That is the course record which is a 4:50 pace.   
 The body was ready to do that yesterday, just with the competition, who is going to take the lead or how are we going to do it? How are we going to get there?   
 But I know it's within me, you know. 27:13 or 27:20, the engine is there, and just have to fine tune it. Whether I'm going to do a fast marathon, it would be great to win the Boston Marathon. That's one on my list to do. It would be huge. But I have to decide which way to go on the next spring.  
 RICHARD FINN: The six American men in the Top 10 is the most here in New York since 1979, when really most of the race was mostly domestic and American runners.  
  
  Q. In her track career and in the marathon, she was the master of the finish. This year at 40 kilometers three women together. Tell us how she was sizing up the race in her tactics to attack the finish?   
 DERARTU TULU: My speed comes from the track. The track work that we do back home is done at a very high speed and is very tough training. I no longer train with Dr. Meskal now that I'm a marathon runner. I'm pretty sure if I were continuing training with him, I could have run even faster than this. But our track training and our marathon training is done in separate groups.   
 At 40 kilometers, I think even if there had been ten of us, I knew that I would be able to pass them because of the superior track speed that I have. I was thinking about where to kick, where to take off. But I also realized that a lot of marathon runners these days are not former track runners, they're primarily you marathon runners.   
 So I knew after 35 kilometers whether there were tenor 20 of us there, I knew I could probably pass them. And I know that that speed has come with the years that I've worked with Dr. Meskal.  
  
  Q. How far back in your own mind do you have to go to find a performance comparable to the one yesterday? Whether it's marathon, track or cross country?   
 DERARTU TULU: I love all of the events in which I have competed. Cross country is where I first began competing, and it was to run cross country that I first went out of the country to represent my country. Track is where the world first came to know of me, so those are also great victories, and yesterday's was also.   
 It's really difficult to compare your victories, because you reach all of them after so much hard work and they all have a special place in your heart. So I can't really prioritize them. I respect and am pleased about all of them.  
  
  Q. It looks like you've had a series of come backs. She goes away for a while, and reappears and wins something. I wanted to ask if it feels for her like she's been away, or if it feels like these are distinct, separate parts of her career?   
 DERARTU TULU: Well, you see as a woman I have periods of my life where I have interrupted running due to child birth. In Ethiopia we handle it rather differently than you do in the West. We stop running as soon as we are pregnant.   
 In addition, I've also had some leg injuries. So I do feel that I have lost some time.   
 The culture doesn't really allow you to run while pregnant, and I don't think that I would be able to do that either. And I've had a few injuries. So I feel that out of the 20 years that I've been competing, I have run, perhaps, half of that. But it's because of these reasons, not because I wanted to interrupt running or scale back the training and work that I was doing.  
  
  Q. What kind of words were you exchanging with Robert? It seemed mostly to be him gesturing to you and trying to talk to you while you were running together. Even when you were like maybe a stride or so ahead of him. Is there anything interesting that you can tell us about what went on between the two of you?   
 MEB KEFLEZIGHI: Well, when we were on First Avenue, it was a little bit windy. So we were next to each other, and I said, Hey, you know, I don't like it to come down to the last 400 meters. But yesterday, if it had to be, I was ready for it.   
 So he was trying to tell me take the lead, but I've done enough leading here. I'm just on my way back. He's a great champion, four-time Boston champion, and Chicago champion. He was fourth place in 2005 where I was third.   
 Hey, you have your days. So I'm just getting to that finish line. I didn't have any obligation to do the work or lead. So that's what I think was chit-chatting. But we didn't say much words, we just kind of exchange each other, and I just tried to be smart yesterday and it paid off a big dividend for me.  
  
  Q. When you were out there running around mile 15, something interesting happened with the leaders. Did you notice that all of a sudden you had eight people shift up and move up to the front on you while you were out there?   
 MEB KEFLEZIGHI: If memory correctly serves me right there was Dos Santos, I think at that point, Hendrick and the rest of the guys there. So we were with Ryan. We were just trying to look back to see who slowed down. Obviously there was a surge before that, and then we slowed down a little bit and got the other guys to come.   
 We just said, hey, it's windy. It's going to be tough. But, you know, with the marathon, the marathon itself makes the move for you for a lot of the time, and you've just got to respond to that and make a move when you can.   
 RICHARD FINN: One thing here at New York Road Runners, yesterday, 2009 race is in the books. We've already looking ahead to 2010. And applications for the 2010 race are going up today at noon time at our website. The first time that we've done it at this point in time.   
 If you could put a note in there, 103,000 -- we had 103,000 applicants for last year's race.   
 Next year's date is November 7th. We were the earliest we could be this year, and next year we're almost as late as we can be.   
 MARY WITTENBERG: Couple additional notes. Just want to make sure you know. Yuri Kano is doing okay. After that fall, Selena had her knee looked at, which was pretty banged up, but she's okay.   
 James Kwambai has been released from the hospital this morning. He ended up going in, he was dehydrated. But also a little bit of an appendix related thing is going on. But he's choosing to be discharged and head home. So everybody is now doing fine, which is great.   
 Also, Meb doesn't know this yet. Have we told Meb about this? And I don't know if it will work for his family. But these are the kind of fun things we're going to get. I got an email last night that the people who run the Thanksgiving Macy's Day Parade would like Meb and his family to be on a float in the parade.   
 Every year we start our planning for the marathon. Last year one of our brain storming was we really need a New York Road Runners float, and it's very hard to get a float because of national television. So Meb got the float. So we'll see if we can make that happen.   
 In closing, just want to thank all of you. This race wouldn't be what it is by any stretch of the imagination without your coverage. So we thank you for your commitment to it and all your support. And as we look forward, we also want March 21st, the New York City half to the spring to be before the major marathons, so we welcome you to join us for that as well.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT