ATP CUP
January 2, 2020
Marcin Matkowski
Wojciech Marek
Lukasz Kubot
Kacper Zuk
Kamil Majchrzak
Hubert Hurkacz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Thank you to Team Poland for joining us today for the press conference. I'm going to hand over to Team Captain Marcin who is going to introduce the team by name down the line.   
MARCIN MATKOWSKI: Hello, everybody. On my right is Kacper Zuk. Second guy is our No. 2 player, Kamil Majchrzak. Right next to me is our No. 1 player, Hubert Hurkacz. On the left is Lukasz Kubot, our No. 1 doubles player. Our junior, Wojciech Marek, who is not a junior anymore. I'm Marcin Matkowski, captain.   
THE MODERATOR: We will be using the Catch Box microphone for questions in the room. I will be taking first questions.   
 Q.  One of the cool things about this event is you have the box on the court where you'll have your teammates there and have your personal coach there. How exciting is that that you have all those guys with you to help you out during a match?  
HUBERT HURKACZ: I mean, it's a great idea. It's going to be so much fun with all of the players here from Poland and obviously with coach being on the side trying to help me. So it's going to be a lot of fun.   
 Q.  They will have opportunities to look at different statistics during the matches and all of that. I don't know if you have spoken to CB or Marcin. Are you interested for them to give you anything in particular? How important do you think that will be?  
HUBERT HURKACZ: I mean, for sure you can see some stats, for example, where your opponent's serving or where am I serving and what percentage of points am I winning? But when you're on court, like, you sometimes don't want to hear too much.   
 Q.  Marcin, obviously as a player, you were one of the best doubles players in the world, and here at this event, doubles could play a very key role. How cool do you think that is for doubles to get a platform like this?  
MARCIN MATKOWSKI: Well, it's great. This whole format, playing two singles and doubles potentially deciding the whole tie is great, and obviously then it puts doubles in the main spotlight. I think that's great.   
I mean, Australia, I played many years here in Australian Open and Sydney, and the people here love doubles. If you have an important tie like that, they will come and support their team.   
Hopefully this week we will see some Polish community and Polish people coming to watch us and support, and I think it will be great event.   
 Q.  Smoke and air quality has kind of been a big issue going into the tournament. How do you feel about that? Are you concerned about your health, or are you not too concerned?  
HUBERT HURKACZ: Yeah, I mean, for now the quality is -- I mean, we can play. We are also receiving here the, like, some advices from the professionals, so they let us know if the quality of air is good for now. For now it's good for us to play.   
 Q.  Lukasz, just the same thing I asked your captain about doubles. How much of a platform do you think this event gives it, and how excited are you about that?  
LUKASZ KUBOT: I'm very excited I'm next to the young team. All the young guys here in our team are -- all the team members are very young, so I'm very happy to share the experience here on the court.   
Like Marcin said, I think it's good in a country like Australia which has a lot of history, especially not only for singles but the doubles. We don't have to mention the names, but I always have to mention the Woodies, which I was looking for and learning a lot from them when I was stepping on the court first time.   
So I think it's also traditional here, and we are very happy and pleased to play here right in Sydney. I hope I'm going to share the experience with the doubles with our younger team members, and I hope it's going to be a lot of fun.   
It's going to be new event for us, but I hope that might be also the reason how Marcin said that the doubles match will be decided in the end. So we are looking forward, and for us is the most important to have fun on the court and play and enjoy the very nice Rosewall Arena here in Sydney.   
 Q.  I know you guys see each other here on the road at different tournaments if you're playing same events. What's it been like to bond? And have you guys done anything in particular that's been really fun?  
LUKASZ KUBOT: Yes, but we're not going to tell you right here. We're going to leave it and keep it in the locker room for us.   
So we are trying the best. And for us is also a new event, ATP Cup. It's something new what ATP has created, and we are looking forward how it's going to work.   
In the end, as Marcin said before, we are happy and pleased to play here in Sydney, which is a lot of Polish people, Polish community, and we are going to give our best to make our country proud as we can.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT