BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
April 28, 2012
Yong-Eun Yang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  CALVIN KOH:   You started eight shots behind the lead today but finished with a 66 today.   What were you telling yourself when you stepped up to the tee this morning? 
Y.E. YANG:   Actually I practiced in the morning and I tried to focus on my rhythm while I was practicing and I just try to continue what I practiced on to the course and tried to find my rhythm. 
In the first half of my game, I don't think my game was that bad but my putting could have been better and it might have helped me actually to get better scores. 
But as I went to the last nine holes, my feel for my shot came back.   I could find my rhythm, and my swings and my game picked up.   I felt good about them and I think my putting also picked up, as well. 
CALVIN KOH:   Looking at the leaderboard, just a few shots off the lead, what are you telling yourself tomorrow on the final day? 
Y.E. YANG:   First of all when I practice, I try to think about my rhythm and I think that will also be important.   So I will think a lot about my rhythm. 
Today in my swing, sometimes the pace was fast and slow, and sometimes the club head was open and closed.   So I will try to overcome these mistakes that I made today and try focus on finding a very good rhythm tomorrow. 

Q.   So if you could tell us about the eagle you made today. 
Y.E. YANG:   So the eagle was made on No. 6 hole, and my tee shot fell in the bunker right in front of the green.   I think from a distance point of view, it was a 20‑metre bunker shot.   I looked at the player in front of me and he was actually behind me, and I saw the speed of his ball and I could see it was a slight downhill.
But when I played, the lie was very good.   It was slightly uphill, and I was able to see that the player who went in front of me put the ball about 50 centimetres close to the hole.   
So looking at that I was able to make a very confident shot, and that went inside the cup. 

Q.   If you look at the score cards for the players, I think their scores are quite different from the first nine holes and the latter nine holes.   And so in terms of going forward, what will be your strategy and will you focus more on the front nine or the back nine? 
Y.E. YANG:   Here on this course, the greens themselves are quite tricky.   If your second shot goes well and you can get the ball near the pin, there's a lot of chances to catch birdies.   But if your second shot is too short or too long, then it might actually not get close to the pin and be far away from the green. 
So I think the front nine and the back nine are equally the same.   I can't say that one is easier or harder.   At this golf course, if your ball goes near the hole, then the ball can pick up some good spin and it can go close to the pin; then that gives you a lot of chances for birdie. 
So what's more important on this course is getting the ball close to the pin.   So I wouldn't say which‑‑ I can't really say that the front nine or the back nine is better.   I can't say that one is better than the other. 

Q.   So a lot of the Korean players are not doing very well.   What do you think is the reason?
Y.E. YANG:   Well, first of all, for some of them, it's going to be their first tournament, so I'm sure that there's a lot of pressure, and it's such a large tournament, so I'm sure that mentally there is a lot of pressure. 
For the players who are coming from Europe and myself coming from the U.S., we have already been in about ten tournaments.   So with the exception of some Korean players who play on part of the Asian Tour, I know for some of them this is their first tournament, and I'm sure that's one of the reasons why they might not be doing so well. 

Q.   So I think there's a lot of galleries or people right now cheering you on, so when you look at your past tournaments, did you actually do better with lots of people, or were you better off when it was a little bit more quiet and calmer?   For us I think of the Korean players, you're our most strongest candidate in terms of winning this tournament. 
Y.E. YANG:   To me actually the number of galleries didn't really affect my game.   I think personally for me, if I look at other tournaments I've won, I think finding the rhythm in my shots, playing in my own pace, being comfortable is more important. 
Two years ago at the Korean Open there, was a big difference between me and the leader, but I focused on what I had to do, and I hung in there and I did very well on the last hole to win that tournament.   So I don't really think the number in the gallery really affects my game.   Personally it's about finding the right rhythm and hanging in there and focusing on my shots till the very end. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT