BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
April 27, 2012
Yong-Eun Yang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  CALVIN KOH:   Thanks for coming down.   Just start off by sharing, how do you find your round today?   
Y.E. YANG:   So today I started off my game at 7.30 in the morning.   The weather was very pleasant, so I think I enjoyed today's game.   
CALVIN KOH:   How different did you find today's round as compared to yesterday?   
Y.E. YANG:   So today, and also yesterday, in the latter part of my game, I committed two bogeys.   So I'm regretful about the two bogeys.   
But yesterday there was a lot of wind and it was quite chilly and today there was no wind and the weather was quite pleasant.   All in all, it was not too bad to play on the course.   
   
 Q.   So you grew up in Jeju Island, and you're also living in Dallas, so these are all windy cities, windy areas, so I'm sure you are quite used to the wind.   Do you think on a windy day, you are in a more advantageous position compared to other players?   
Y.E. YANG:   I've never thought that a windy course would play for my advantage.   I think it depends on the condition of that particular day.   So I've never really thought the wind conditions would make it more advantageous for me.   
   
 Q.   So what do you think the winning score will be?   And you mentioned how the greens, the elevations, were quite severe?   How did you find them this year?  
Y.E. YANG:   If you look at the leaderboard right now, I think it's 7‑under right now, but once the tournament is over, I'm expecting that the winning score will be something like 10‑under or 11, and if things are tough, maybe around 9‑under.   
The greens are faster than last year, but I think the green conditions were much more even than last year, so it was actually much better to play this year.   
Especially with the up‑and‑down putts, it was very difficult, because you're actually bringing the ball from the bottom to the top.   So on two occasions, I had to putt three times.   So whenever there is that elevation, that slope, I think it does make playing golf a little bit more tougher.   
   
 Q.   So today Mr.Ahn Byung‑hoon played very well, and I hear he lives quite nearby.   If you could share some advice to him?   
Y.E. YANG:   He's quite young and I think he still needs to gain a lot of experience.   But he did win the U.S. Open Amateur Championship, so I think physically and mentally, he's capable of growing very fast, developing very fast.   
   
 Q.   So on No. 5, your second shot, you used a driver.   If you could talk about your play on the fifth hole.   
Y.E. YANG:   So I think after the tee shot, there was about 25 left and the fairway was an uphill fairway.   So sometimes when I have to play on an uphill lie, I use a driver.   But this time I wanted to send the ball close to the green, so I used a driver.   
I think the ball didn't hit as well as I thought, and so the distance was a bit shorter than I expected.   But because I felt like I needed a birdie, I think I was a bit ambitious.     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT