UBS HONG KONG OPEN
December 3, 2011
Yong-Eun Yang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:   Y.E., thank you for joining us.   On Tuesday, you said you wanted to take the trophy away from Ian Poulter and now you have a chance tomorrow.   Tell us about today.   
Y.E. YANG:   Yeah, I have one more day to go, and I'm in good position, better than being ahead in the first or second round.   One more day to focus, 18 holes to play.   I think my chances are fairly good.   
CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:   What was the key difference in the round today compared to the first two rounds for your low score?   
Y.E. YANG:   Well, first of all, there wasn't any wind.   There was fairly minimal wind, so that helped a lot.   The conditions were ideal.   And my irons and my putter were playing as I've always wanted them to play today.   
   
 Q.   What's been the difference this year compared to other years?   
Y.E. YANG:   I think the past two years, I've had some trouble with the 9th hole.   I shot last year alone 6‑over over four days, so the 9th hole has been causing me a lot of trouble, but this year it's a lot better.  
Also, the other players in the field are not performing as well as they used to, which is giving me a chance to really creep up on the leaderboard.   
   
 Q.   Would you prefer conditions tomorrow to be like this, with blue sky and sunshine, or would you actually look for more difficult conditions?   
Y.E. YANG:   This course is relatively shorter than most courses I've played.   But it's a trickier course, because the fairways are very narrow and the greens are a bit difficult.   The past two days from yesterday and the day before, with the windy conditions that I've encountered, I haven't really played that well.   
So I think all of the relative easiness of the distance of the course is offset by the difficulty of the play, the difficulty of the strategy.   If the weather comes in and the wind blows, then that really adds to the disadvantage of my game.   
I know that if the weather is like this tomorrow, there will be a lot of players who will be catching up, but at the same time, if I can perform like today, then I believe that I can fend them off in good conditions.   
   
 Q.   You've been playing the last couple of years, and when you come and play in Hong Kong, are just in and out, airport, hotel, golf course, or do you tour quite a bit in the city?   Do you go out and do a lot of maybe dining and other stuff, a little shopping?   
Y.E. YANG:   I think that most of the tournaments that I go to nowadays are airport, hotel, golf courses, and back and forth.   I'm not sure if it's because I'm getting older or if it's because the schedule has been more demanding.   
It's been quite active this week for sure.   I've done a lot of sponsor‑related stuff.   I've met with the chairman of UBS at dinner last night.   The sponsors and the Tour have been taking us out, taking good care of us.   So there has not been a lot of time for me to go out, venture out, do some sightseeing or do shopping.  
When I last came here about ten years ago, I remember I had time to go to Stanley, a huge big seafood restaurant called Jumbo, went there.   Went there, had seafood, had a lot of time, went around, did some shopping.   Spent a lot less money than I do right now, but I got around.   
But nowadays‑‑ and I'm not complaining, it's just that the Tour, wherever I go, has scheduled something for me or for my fellow players that I get to sightsee a lot on the way back home in the cars.   I really like to go out.   Fortunately for me, I'm staying this week in the shopping mall, so I do get to eye shop a little bit.   I haven't bought anything yet.   Hopefully I can at the weekend.   
   
 Q.   You've been telling us that you've been playing very well with your iron game and your putting; does that mean you have to adjust on your driving or your woods?   
Y.E. YANG:   No, my driver's working fine.   It's just that usually my weakness is second shots and putting.   Those have been good.   
CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:   Thank you, Y.E., all the best tomorrow.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT