THE PRESIDENTS CUP
November 16, 2011
Yong-Eun Yang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Your thoughts on Royal Melbourne, the golf course? 
 Y.E. YANG: I don't know what Royal Melbourne has done but these are probably the toughest greens I've ever played on. If you just lose your focus for a split second, you can make bogey or double or triple. You can 3-putt easily. 
So I think the overall strategy of play in the golf course is quite fun, but the greens are just monstrous, really. I've never really played on greens like this before. So it's going to be very tricky, not just for me but for everyone playing here.

 Q. I saw you on the third green, case in point, of you trying to hit shots and the ball was coming right back to you and you guys were having laughs. Does it almost feel like a circus or is it still a fair test of greens? 
 Y.E. YANG: I want to say they are unfair, really, because they seem unfair to me but it all comes down to where you're playing your second shot or your third shot, where you're landing the ball on the green, and on some lies on the green, it's so easy. 
 But if you go into just a little bit of a tricky position, and all hell breaks out, so that's what I've experienced for the past two days; that you have to really pick your -- you have to drive, first, very accurately, get it on the fairway and not just anywhere on the fairway but you have to put it on very good position to get into the green and also set your ball in a very good position on the green. 
 So the second shot or your third shot is going to be very critical. And then after that, even after that, just a few inches or a few feet away, it just comes like day and night. So it's so tricky that I want to call it unfair, but then again, this is going to be applied to all 24 players out in the field. So at the end of the day, it has to be fair. I mean, this is golf. Golf is never unfair and the golf courses, however difficult or easy they are, they are always fair. 

 Q. Have you met Kyung-tae Kim before this tournament, and tell us how you feel about playing alongside that young player. 
 Y.E. YANG: I've known him for quite some time now and I've actually played with him this July. We had the annual Korea versus Japan team match and I played with him all three days except for the singles, foursomes and fourballs I've played with him. And we won all three rounds, so I think that we have some good chemistry going. 
 And also, although he's still fairly young, he's been tearing up the Amateur ranks for a long time before he turned pro, and when he turned pro, he started out great, won the first two tournaments that he played in Korea. And I just believe -- right now my belief is that he's the best Korean player in the world right now. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT