DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 2, 2011
Yong-Eun Yang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. The golf course seemed as though it was starting to run harder, that the rain that they expected to come through from the storm didn't seem to dump as much water on this golf course as they had originally anticipated. Talk to us about how hard the golf course was running in the fairways and greens today.   
 Y.E. YANG: Absolutely it was quite firmer, especially compared to last week. From the tee actually I drove probably about ten yards more than usual, so that was to my advantage. But again, on the green, because the greens were firmer, I had to really be careful not to overshoot or land it too hard to overrun it.  
  
  Q. To what would you credit your round today finishing on 5-under par?   
 Y.E. YANG: I tried to go without a coach for a year now, and I've tried to adjust my swing as I've gone through the season. I'm finally tweaking the right things, I think. It's been a year and a season of adjustments, and today, this morning, I experimented by not swinging my right arm too far back in my backswing, actually keeping my armpit closed a lot more than usual, and I think that helped my control overall in my driver and my second shots. So I think those little experiments are paying off, and self-teaching has its benefits, as well.   
  
  Q. You came in No. 26 in the FedExCup standings. Do you watch the projections and where you're at? Do you feel like you're peaking at the right time?   
 Y.E. YANG: I'll definitely check it. I think every player checks it. But I think it's good that the ascension is coming right now, not earlier in the season, because the Playoffs are definitely important. Everybody is eyeing that big prize at the end. And last week felt gradually good, and then the final round last week I played fairly well. I'm trying to keep that momentum going. If it is a peak, then I hope this peak lasts for a long time.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT