U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 18, 2011
Yong-Eun Yang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Can you win tomorrow?
 Y.E. YANG: I'll just try (laughter).

 Q. Is it discouraging to come as close as you did to him and just see him get that much further ahead of you?
 Y.E. YANG: I wanted to catch up a little bit, I have to be honest with you. But at the same time, the player with the better shot, with the better putt, with the better composure is leading right now. So I have no regrets. Right now the better player is leading.

 Q. Lee Westwood said yesterday that he's going to for a moment, forget about Rory McIlroy, and he was going to try to go out and beat Y.E. Yang and get second place. When he came up here, he was beating Y.E. Yang. But he isn't right now. You're in second place. How important was it to get that second place position?
 Y.E. YANG: I think it's actually a race for second place right now. I'll try and catch up with Rory as much as possible, as much as I can. But if he doesn't let go, it's going to be a race for second place. I'm playing some good golf right now, actually. There are some areas that I need improvement. But at the same time, I can't complain at the score I have right now on this type of course. Let the best second place win. 

 Q. Is it in your mind at all, as you talked about the other day, that you have erased a ten-stroke deficit and won a tournament. Is that still in your mind or are you thinking that Rory isn't apt to give up that type of lead?
 Y.E. YANG: I've always been trying to hit under par every round, so I think that little objective has been achieved. You never know, I could hit 4-over or I could hit 4-under. You never know tomorrow's events. So I'm not going to put anything away right now, but at the same time mini steps for me. I'm just going to try to play my game.

 Q. Is it a danger to try to be overly aggressive?
 Y.E. YANG: The best result that I could ask for right now is to maintain a balanced attack. And that's all I can ask from myself right now. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT