U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 16, 2011
Yong-Eun Yang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Congratulations on a very nice round of golf. Are you very satisfied with your first round?  
 Y.E. YANG: The last few U.S. Opens that I attended, I was over par, so I'm very satisfied right now.   
  
  Q. What are doing differently today or is it the golf course? Does it suit your eye?  
 Y.E. YANG: I think, first of all, the course setup is a bit more to my advantage than the other previous U.S. Opens. And also I've been playing a lot more conservatively this week and practiced a lot, played less bone head plays. So I try to make pars, less bogeys, and I've been lucky enough to make a few birdies. So I think overall the course and my conservative approach is helpful.  
  
  Q. What do you feel like you've done well this week and is there anything that you're going to be working on today going into tomorrow?  
 Y.E. YANG: This is a rare occasion -- this is the first occasion, actually, where I've made birdies on all four par-3s throughout my professional career.   
 Hopefully it's a sign that I'll be playing quite well on those short holes. And I think that conservative approach and just trying to hit the greens has been helpful.  
  
  Q. What does this start do for your confidence?  
 Y.E. YANG: It's always easier to be in front than to be chasing. So from that sense it's a lot more relaxing than building up confidence, per se. But at the same time because I had such, I guess, a good showing in the first round it also makes me believe that I can do it once more.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 Y.E. YANG: The rough is a lot shorter than Pebble. The weather helped out because it rained this morning. The greens got softer. It's coming up quite rapidly right now. So I think the next three days, if the weather is going to hold up like this, it's going to be probably difficult for me as is anybody else. But right now I guess it was a strike of short roughs and some good luck on weather.  
  
  Q. Is today about as easy as this course will play?  
 Y.E. YANG: Actually I might have to eat my words on the easy set up, I think it's more because of the weather. It's just great timing for me. The greens were softer than it is right now in the morning. So I think it was more of luck than of what the USGA did for me.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT