MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 7, 2011
Yong-Eun Yang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 ED HERLIHY: We welcome Y.E. Yang. He's the winner of the 2009 PGA Championship and an excellent round today, a 5-under par 67. We'll open it up to questions. 

 Q. Can we talk about the 13th hole? 
 Y.E. YANG: On the second shot, I had about 240 yards left, and it was in a good position. I used my 2-iron hybrid. I thought to myself, if I hit the center of the green, I have a good chance to make eagle. 
 Fortunately for me, it went really into the middle. It was about less than a foot left, and I basically just tapped it in for eagle. 

 Q. Can you describe the rest of your birdies from today? 
 Y.E. YANG: No. 4, the par 3, the lie was a bit up and then down wards, a little bit of a hook. Actually it was a drastic hook, actually, it was from right-to-left. I really didn't aim for birdie. I was just trying to make it close to making a par. But it rolled right in. So I think it was probably the most difficult birdie that I had this week. But it certainly set the momentum for me and it was all, in a good way, downhill from then on until the last two holes. 

 Q. Does using hybrids instead of long irons help? 
 Y.E. YANG: It helps. It helps. I think I swapped out my 5-iron with a 5-iron rescue, TaylorMade Rescue, last year around this period. 
 And the year before that, swap I swapped my 4-iron for a 4-iron rescue and a few years before that I changed my 3-iron to a 3-iron rescue.
 It's easy to hit. I'm not one of the premiere hitters on the PGA Tour. It creates a lot of loft, as well, if you need a high shot. It gives you a lot more variables and options when you try to be more creative on the field and it definitely helps me. 

 Q. You hit a rather remarkable shot on 17 from the trees. What options did you consider there? That was -- even though you didn't make the par, it was a heck of a shot. 
 Y.E. YANG: There was an option of just hitting out to my right side, but it would still leave about 140, 150 yards left. And it was still going to be a difficult par save anyhow, like any part of the golf course that you get into trouble over here. 
 So at that point, I was leading, co-leader, so I was a bit I guess overzealous in my thinking, and I thought to gamble. It didn't pan out very well. But I'm still satisfied that it didn't go wayward and I tripled or doubled. It was still I think, and considering the circumstances, par would have been much better but still it would have been good. I was aiming to at least get it up on the fringe and then chip it in, but that didn't turn out very well. But as I told you, it's a better outcome than I expected.

 Q. What was the club?
 Y.E. YANG: 5 rescue. 

 Q. Having won a major, how does it help you? How does it affect you when you play in a major now?
 Y.E. YANG: First of all, winning a major is not a privilege but more of an honor, really. And with that honor comes a lot of confidence whenever you head out to the field, not just in a major, but also in other tournaments. 
 So coming into the Masters, or in any other major, it's no longer a dream for you, and it does wonders for you once you know that it's something that you can grasp, and it's a possible sort of objective. 
 With that thought in mind, you know longer think that it's unreachable and it's an extension of your imagination. That brings in a lot of confidence in yourself. And I know that right now on the PGA Tour, there are not that many players who have experienced a major win. So I think that's sort of a privilege in itself. 
 ED HERLIHY: Y.E., thank you very much and we wish you the best of luck the remainder of the week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT