WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 24, 2011
Yong-Eun Yang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   LAURA HILL: Congratulations on moving on to the third round and beating Stewart Cink, who has such a good record here at Accenture Match Play Championship. Maybe just talk about how well you did against him today.
 Y. E. YANG: You know, Stewart didn't start off very well. His first tee shot went out of the fairway. So I changed my tactic. I usually play aggressive, but I changed my tactic, and I just tried to pace myself and see what Stewart would do. I played a little defensive and a little conservative compared to the other times I played match play. 
 And I think Stewart had an off day today, so I just maintained by conservative play, and it faired quite well.

 Q. Well, were you aware of Stewart's success in this event over the years?
 Y. E. YANG: If I recall correctly, was he the runner up in '09? I think -- yeah, his statistics were quite good, but then again golf isn't always about statistics. And that's the beauty of the match play format. And it can be nerve-wracking, but it's also anybody's game any day, just as you might have witnessed yesterday. So everybody who plays in this tournament has enough caliber to make an upset or a knock out of a better player or a player with better statistics.

 Q. Had you been playing well to this point? Did you expect to do well here this week?
 Y. E. YANG: I don't really come into tournaments and feel like I'm going to win every match or every round or match up in a match play format. I just come in and be as confident as my game allows me to be. I just play within my game, I don't try to over excel. Sometimes I do, and that's when I make mistakes. So I try to be grounded. And if I have a good day and my opponent in a match play situation has a bad day, then so be it.

 Q. Have you looked at the brackets to see who you might play next?
 Y. E. YANG: I just look ahead one bracket at a time. I do believe that I'm playing Graeme tomorrow, so that's about all I know right now. I don't look ahead away from that.
 LAURA HILL: Thanks for coming in. Good luck. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT