BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
April 20, 2010
Yong-Eun Yang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   CALVIN KOH: Thanks, Yang, for coming to today's press conference. Y.E. Yang, I'm sure it is a happy home coming for you coming back to Jeju. Your sister got married last week. You won in China. You have so much happiness in your life, if you can share with us things that have happened in the past month for you.   
 Y.E. YANG: So two weeks ago, I took part in the tournament in the United States, and then last week in China, I was able to win. So I wanted to win a tournament before I came to Jeju and I was able to do so. So it is with a very joyous heart that I return to my hometown of Jeju Island.   
 I wasn't able to attend my sister's wedding because I was playing golf, but I heard that the wedding went very well. So I think for me and for my family right now, a lot of good things are happening.   
 CALVIN KOH: You obviously live in Texas in the USA today. What is the one thing that you would like to do before you go back to the U.S. at the end of this week?   
 Y.E. YANG: Since I am here in Jeju Island to play golf, I think it will be great if I can win the tournament. And also, I have family living here in Jeju, so I would like to spend dinner with them and maybe share a delicious meal.   
  
  Q. When I look at the golf page or a golf tournament, I think even if you miss some shots, you are very relaxed and in control of the game, and I think you were at ease and very comfortable. I think since winning the PGA Championship, you've had a very tight schedule and you did very well in the Masters. I think that you have improved your ability to overcome difficulties and crises. What do you think about this?   
 Y.E. YANG: Since winning the PGA Championship last year, it's been a very hectic schedule for me. You know, I always want to do good but there are always areas that don't satisfy you or immediate your expectation. I mean, how oozy would golf be if you control it the way you want to.   
 I understand in the game of golf inevitably you will miss some shots but you must focus on how you will recover your next shots. If you try to think too much about the shots that go wrong or obsess about it, then can have a negative effect on your game. So I think having a very positive attitude and focusing your attention on the shot that you're playing right now is important, and I think this attitude has led to great results last week.   
  
  Q. So two years ago you took part in the Ballantine's Championship, and I would like to know what is your feeling coming into this year's game? I know that during the past two years, there must have been a lot of changes.   
 Y.E. YANG: So I think when I first played the Ballantine's Championship two years ago, at that time I had no victory in the U.S. Tour, and also, I didn't have as much experience as I have right now. And so I think that's the reason why I didn't do so well.   
 But two years has passed. I have been able to play very difficult golf courses in the United States and improve my game, and also, accumulate more experience.   
 So I think that compared to two years ago, I'll be able to show a better game this time.   
  
  Q. In the past, how have you done the week after you've won a tournament, and how different is it playing after winning the week before?  
 Y.E. YANG: As much as possible I would like to show consistency in my game. I think for me, I focus and think a lot about the shot that I'm doing right now, and I think after winning last week, this week, I will try to make up to show consistency in my game. But I haven't won two weeks consecutively, so I guess, you know, there is an issue of me being -- you might not be as nervous or might not focus as much.   
 But you for me, winning two weeks in a row is another goal for me, and I think about players here, I won last week, and I have an opportunity to win again this week.   
 So I have an opportunity to create wins for two weeks consecutively, and for me personally, I also am thinking about, how can I win again this week.   
 I want to have consistency in my game and focus on my game.   
  
  Q. I'm sure the only goal in life for you now is not just to win on the PGA Tour, but maybe you have other plans to foster and nurture other new coming golf athletes maybe in Jeju or China.   
 Y.E. YANG: Right now, I can't give you the exact details of my plans, including in my plans there are many different things. Maybe a golf school, and also making arrangements to create a foundation for me to implement my business after I retire from playing.   
 So there are many different plans that I have in place right now. I think maybe in the near future, I'll be able to share the details of these plans with you.   
  
  Q. So you've had the experience of playing with Tiger Woods and winning against Tiger Woods, and last week at the Masters K.J. Choi also played with Tiger Woods. What do you think it was like for him?   
 Y.E. YANG: I don't know if I can answer that question. I played with Tiger twice. Once I won and once I lost, so I only played with him on two tournaments.   
 So all I can say is that I'm pretty sure that it's not easy; it's very difficult. But what K.J. might have gone through or thought about, I don't think I can answer that question.   
  
  Q. So the Ballantine's Championship is being held here in Jeju Island, and I think that the weather is one of the greatest variables in this game. You've learned how to play golf here on Jeju Island. Do you think that this will help your game this week?  
 Y.E. YANG: I don't know if it will help my game. I mean, when I wasn't playing golf very well, I went on practise round days here on Jeju Island, but I don't think there is a special advantage for me because we are having this tournament here on Jeju Island.  
 For the European players, they are used to very difficult conditions, a lot of variables and changes, and the European players also have a lot of experience. And so the weather here in Jeju, I don't think it's a special advantage for me.   
 I've played in Europe before and if you go to Europe, you can see that the conditions or the weather is actually equal or worse off than here on Jeju Island. And I think European players have a great ability overcoming these very difficult situations.   
  
  Q. So I think in order for a golf player to win this championship, you know, not only their long game, but their short game and putting, everything has to come together. So what do you think is the key to winning this tournament on this golf course this week?   
 Y.E. YANG: Of course, with your short game, I think it's important; wedge approach, greens, putting, all of this is important. But compared to other golf courses right now, if you go on the green from the side and from the front, there are a lot of slopes. So this can confuse you. And if you miss a few shots because you're confused by the greens, then I think this can affect your game.   
 I think the key to winning this championship is reading the greens very well and playing your game.   
  
  Q. So in the Masters, you saw Anthony Kim play, so what do you think about Anthony Kim's golf play? I think after the Masters, a lot of press have depicted him as an athlete that has great potential for future growth, so what do you think after this?   
 Y.E. YANG: I think first of all, one of Anthony's strong points is his very solid and steady swing. Even for me, myself, some of my shots, there are ups and downs. But I think with Anthony there, is consistency in his swing and he has a very solid, stead swing.   
 And also, he's very young and he hits the ball -- he's very strong in long shots and also mentally he's very strong. So I think experts in the United States and golf-related experts see all of these as reasons why Anthony has a lot of potential, and I think there is a lot to expect from him.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT