MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 9, 2010
Yong-Eun Yang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. General comments about your round today.   
 Y.E. YANG: Compared to yesterday I didn't have an early birdie which sort of made me rattled a bit and I struggled a bit trying to maintain all my game and the overall score management. Yesterday was much easier than today.   
  
  Q. You have to be happy with the way you hung in there though.   
 Y.E. YANG: Well, what can you say? I still got two rounds of golf left, I'm still in the top-10, I still got, I'm only three strokes behind the leader, so I can't be too worried about that.   
  
  Q. The 14th hole, that's been tough on a lot of people today. Did you misjudge your approach shot to the 14th or what happened there?  
 Y.E. YANG: Now I tried to add a lot of spin to it, because it was sort of a downhill lie, and I actually topped it and it actually, I holed a shot from about 17 or 18 feet. So it actually ran a bit further than I wanted it to.   
  
  Q. On 14, wasn't that the one that spun back?  
 Y.E. YANG: The second shot there was a 9-iron from 156, but a little bit helping wind, but I hit it 152 short and that rolled to the top and hit the top and then it had back spin.   
  
  Q. So you misjudged it a little bit?  
 Y.E. YANG: Just a little bit miss, yeah. Misjudged, yeah.   
  
  Q. What was it like playing with Phil?  
 Y.E. YANG: I had four consecutive rounds of golf with him actually since last week, third round and fourth round at the Shell Houston, so I'm getting use to it. And he definitely has a positive vibe and so I get that vibe and I play a bit more comfortable with him probably.   
  
  Q. And tomorrow again too.   
 Y.E. YANG: Yes, tomorrow again.   
  
  Q. You hit a great shot at 16. How close was that?  
 Y.E. YANG: 16, maybe nine feet. Eight, nine feet.   
  
  Q. How long was the putt at 17?  
 Y.E. YANG: 17? Maybe one foot. I made birdie.   
  
  Q. We talked at the Honda about your approach coming here and you were going to try to be a little more analytical hole by hole, has that succeeded for you?  
 Y.E. YANG: It's really tough to chip on the greens on this golf course, so I tried to hit the greens as much as possible, and I analyze the greens quite a bit more than usual, so I tried to do as much on the greens instead of outside, but it's one thing about, one thing for thinking and it's another thing to actually do it, put it into practice.   
 So, but overall I think that the last two rounds have been fairly good with my analysis towards and the strategy that I set to this point has paid off.  
 K.J. has had a good streak so far. He's done fairly well, two top-10s and he's played on this course in this tournament for eight consecutive years now, so he knows this place much better than I do, so I think that it's about time that K.J. performs in this and hopefully he can sustain it the next two rounds as well. Hopefully it will be the same for me.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT