MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 8, 2010
Yong-Eun Yang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  THE MODERATOR: Let me introduce Y.E. Yang, the winner of the 2009 PGA Championship here at his third Masters appearance. Y.E. shot a stellar 5-under par 67 today. 
   Y.E., we'll turn it over to you, maybe to review some of the highlights of your round today. 
   Y.E. YANG: I started off trying to focus on making even today, every hole, just set par, because it was going to be windy and the forecast said it was going to rain about 1:00 or 2:00, probably around my turn. 
   I par saved on the first hole and then birdied the second. It felt good, so I thought I was going to probably have a comfortable afternoon. And then on the 7th hole, I bogeyed it, and it rattled me a bit. But that was quickly revised because I made a birdie on 9. 
   And then on towards the back nine, I played quite well I think. It just seemed to me that everything came to me very comfortably. The course, I've set my personal record on the course this round, so it feels good, really. And hopefully I can sustain this. Don't want to be too aggressive. I just want to sustain this going into tomorrow and hopefully to the weekend. 

   Q. When you have such perfect conditions leading up to the first round and all of the practice rounds were terrific weather, how difficult is it to adjust yourself when you wake up in the morning and you see what you're going to have to encounter all day?
   Y.E. YANG: You know, fortunately, the weather affects everyone on the field. So I don't really tend to dwell upon that too much. It's a default condition for everyone. 
   So the only thing that I might have to prepare is probably extra wet weather gear or probably short sleeves, considering what the weather will be. 
   Now, there is a factor when at morning, it's rainy and windy and cold and the afternoon, the weather is perfect, or vice versa. Then you would probably blame the tee times, and that's just probably luck, really. 
   But apart from that, the weather, not really much to think about nor prepare. 

   Q. Can you walk us through your back side birdies?
   Y.E. YANG: I think it started with hole No. 10, landed it 32 feet away on the right-hand side. I tried to roll it down as close to the hole as possible to make par, and it actually rolled in. So that was good. 
   And then on 12, probably about ten feet away, easy putt to go in. 
   13, tried to make an eagle on it, missed the eagle, but it was an easy putt in for birdie. 
   Same thing on 15, as well. I aimed for an eagle. I was a bit more aggressive. I didn't make eagle, but I still was close enough to putt in, drop it in for birdie. 
   So I think after No. 10, it really helped me gain confidence in controlling my score, as well, as much as my game. 

   Q. Could you explain your missed shot as you bogeyed the 7th hole in detail; would you please explain?
   Y.E. YANG: I tried to hit a fade on the tee, but it actually went a bit left. It ended up right behind the tree, so I had to chip out right in front of the green. 
   And from there, I chipped on to the green. It was about a ten-feet putt for par. But I missed the par putt, so I had to putt it for bogey. 
   THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much.  
  End of FastScripts 
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT