CHEVRON WORLD CHALLENGE
December 5, 2009
Yong-Eun Yang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DOUG MILNE: We'd like to welcome third round co-leader, Y.E. Yang, in the interview room here at the Chevron World Challenge. Thanks for joining us. I know you're still not feeling too well so we'll try and get you in and out of here pretty quick, but 1-under 71 today. Good enough to put you at the top of the leaderboard heading into the final round. Just kind of your thoughts on how you're feeling as you prepare for the final round tomorrow.  
 Y.E. YANG (through interpreter): I felt good on the first hole, birdieing, after birdieing the first hole. I thought it would be another good round, but as the day went by and my body wore down a bit more, I bogeyed a few holes.   
 The wind was a bit chilly, strong, swirling, and it didn't pan out as much as I wanted to have it pan out as I expected on the first tee or the first hole.   
 But obviously I'm not 100 percent in condition right now, but overall I feel good about being on top of the leaderboard.   
 DOUG MILNE: Okay. We'll go ahead and open it up for a few questions.   
  
  Q. Given how you feel, have you exceeded your expectations for the week so far?  
 Y.E. YANG (through interpreter): Actually I do feel a bit better than yesterday, I think because of the pills I took this morning, so feeling I think a bit better.   
 But probably if I was as sick as yesterday, I probably would have played a little better.   
  
  Q. Did you end up going to the Lakers game last night, and how was it if you did?  
 Y.E. YANG (through interpreter): Unfortunately, no. I didn't have time to go and watch the Lakers game because I had an appointment with Chan Ho Park who just pitched for the Phillies last season and who's one of the main sports stars in Korea, so I had some sushi with him, and because of that, I missed out on a terrific tournament.   
  
  Q. How much are you recognized in America do you think?  
 Y.E. YANG (through interpreter): The overall recognition, I think is a little bit similar. The reason being is not because I'm more popular over here or in Korea. It's just that golf is not a broad-span type of sport, whereas in America, even though you're not really into golf, you still recognize a few players.   
 In Korea, if you like a sport, usually a lot of people just concentrate on their own favorite sports. So if a person likes baseball, then they wouldn't recognize me a lot.   
 It was a Korean-owned sushi restaurant, so I think it was about the same.   
 DOUG MILNE: Okay. Y.E., thanks for your time.  
 Y.E. YANG (through interpreter): Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT