WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 4, 2009
Yong-Eun Yang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   CHUAH CHOO CHIANG: We have Y.E. Yang with us, Asia's first major champion and 2006 HSBC Champion. Thank you for joining us. Let's start with your impressions on the golf course; is it any different? 
 Y.E. YANG: Overall, the roughs are longer, the greens are much faster. I've tried to practice a lot, trying to adjust my feel towards the green speed. It's a cleaner image, I must say, from previous years. 
 CHUAH CHOO CHIANG: When you look back at your win in the HSBC in 2006, what do you remember the most and how do you think that shaped your career?
 Y.E. YANG: The biggest memory is of sitting with Tiger during the awards ceremony in 2006. Having my picture taken with Tiger was probably the biggest thrill. And also, the biggest impact I think was when I held that trophy, that was the first European Tour event trophy that I held up, and that felt like an immense significance towards my career. 

 Q. Have you ever played with a Chinese player, and what do you think about China golf?
 Y.E. YANG: I've played with Liang Wen-Chong and Zhang Lian-Wei, two really good players. I admire their skill and certain skill sets within their game. I haven't been able to play with any other players, Chinese players specifically, so I don't know the overall talent level or the skill level of a Chinese player. 
 But I do know that the Chinese players and the golf industry, the golf market, the people, the fans, they all have grasped golf in a very positive way, and it's building up quickly in China, and I know that the buildup has been proportional and in huge ways it's been very positive. I do think that there will be a very good player to come out quite soon. 

 Q. There's been a lot of work after the PGA Championship, it's been a tight schedule for you; how are you coping with the stressful and long schedules? And this is the first time after the PGA Championship that you're playing against Tiger Woods in a tournament atmosphere. How will you prepare in the case that you would have a rematch with Tiger?
 Y.E. YANG: Well, first of all, stamina-wise, it's been physically draining and it's been a bit stressful. It's been quite fun, as well. I've done a lot of on- and off-course duties, played a lot more events than I did last year at this time of the year, and I've also had to fulfill a lot of sponsor obligations and do a lot off appearances in my hometown. It's been a bit physically draining and mentally, as well. It's all been fun and I don't want to change it for anything in the world. 
 And with Tiger, I don't want to push my luck any further. I know that Tiger is at his peak condition right now. He's been rested. I've been lucky once and I don't want to push my luck as I said. I'm going to push myself as I always do and I'm going to be oblivious of all of the other players and just try to play my game. 

 Q. Compared with 2006 when you got the trophy, now that you are here again, how are you feeling about this golf course and your feeling about this competition, and with Tiger Woods, do you have more pressure or are you more relaxed? 
 Y.E. YANG: Back in 2006, I had -- overall it was a good experience for me. I had a good time. I like Shanghai, and to top off a very nice time in Shanghai, I won the tournament. So it was a relaxed atmosphere for me, and I took it very laid back. 
 Now, there's a little bit more pressure I guess. I'm not as relaxed as I was back in '06. Maybe it's because Tiger is here. Maybe it's because I've been through a lot of tournaments. Maybe it's because of the stress finally trickling down. I don't know. 
 But as I told you, I'm trying to take it as just an ordinary tournament, or try to, and hopefully I can find my calm and I can relax again and I can play my game.

 Q. You've played with Tiger Woods a couple of times and you've won both matches; what do you think in your opinion would be the pros and cons of Tiger Woods' game? 
 Y.E. YANG: Well, I think that the strengths of Tiger Woods' game is totally focused. The focus level is just unbelievable. He focuses so well that he brings everything to his pace. Everything just comes at his pace. Even the players next to him have to run at his pace. I guess the weakness or the consequences, I wouldn't say the weakness, but the consequences of Tiger Woods' game would be that he is so good. And he's so good. (Laughter).
 CHUAH CHOO CHIANG: Y.E., thank you for coming in and all the best this week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT