THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 6, 2009
Yong-Eun Yang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   Y.E. YANG: Tiger is going to probably come out with a vengeance if he is teamed up against me the final day. 
 I will try to play with a similar strategy to try and play my own game, and I won't try to force anything. I will try my best definitely, but it doesn't mean that I'm going to force anything or try to put any loftier expectations on myself. It's going to be tough, but I'll try to keep my calm. 
 I was here once on a stop over, but this is officially my first trip.

 Q. On the two bus trips, where have you guys gone? 
 Y.E. YANG: We had dinner yesterday right at Pier 26 right beneath the Bay Bridge. That was the first trip. The second trip was coming over here. We got stuck in traffic, but had a few laughs in between. 

 Q. Is there a problem with your vision?
 Y.E. YANG: It's a blood vein that pops in my eye, but nothing serious. Since the PGA Championship it's been a very tiresome two months. I'm not saying it was unpleasant, it was very enjoyable, but it was a long, long schedule and I was out of my routine and that's probably why I got a little bit stressed out, and yeah, one of my veins popped. 
 It will take about two weeks to heal. It's been about five days now. It's getting there to where it's the grossest right now, but it will be better.

 Q. How has your life changed since the PGA Championship? 
 Y.E. YANG: You could just see that it's changed today, that I'm here. That's just a testimony to what transpired since that win. I wouldn't be here if I didn't win that tournament, so it definitely changed a lot. 
 It's going to still change. Probably going to be longer seasons now for me. I'm going to play a lot more tournaments. 
 So professionally, it's changed quite a bit.

 Q. A lot more recognition, do you get stopped on the street? 
 Y.E. YANG: Every time I come to a tournament, there's probably about a 20- to 30-minute session where I now have to sign autographs for the fans. It's a very pleasant revelation, to say the least. 
 A lot of people recognize me. They actually shout out my name properly instead of K.J. or Kevin or Charlie. 
 Yeah, a lot of people recognize me. They understand who I am, and it's been a fun, joyful ride so far. 

 Q. How has Greg been as a captain?
 Y.E. YANG: Greg has been following the team so far and he's been looking at how the pairings have been going. These pairings are not set yet. We are looking at compatibility issues. He's also asked me personally what type of ball I use, and what type of equipment I've used. So he's been looking around and he's been scouring every bit of detail on the course. 

 Q. If you had your choice, would you go head-to-head with Tiger? 
 Y.E. YANG: Every game is probably in essence the same, whoever I'm playing against, whoever the team is. So bring anybody on. 

 Q. At the beginning of the year, you were ranked 400-something in the world. Had The Presidents Cup entered your mind? When did you realize you could be a part of it? When did you even first hear about the Presidents Cup? 
 Y.E. YANG: I never thought coming here at the beginning of the year. My objective for this year was to maintain my card. I didn't even think about winning a tournament. I was just trying to maintain my card. 
 So it's been a bit of an over achievement so far. I first heard that I would be qualified for The Presidents Cup after I won the PGA Championship, right after I left the media center. 
 After I won the Honda Classic, I did hear that I might become a captain's pick consideration, but I really didn't think too much about it at that time. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT