WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
January 30, 2014
Yong-Eun Yang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome Y.E. Yang to the interview room.   Could you give us some opening comments about the round. 
Y.E. YANG:   (Through translation.)   It's been a while since I have had my name up on the leaderboard on the 18th hole, so this is coming to me as quite new.   Practiced like any other day.   A little bit cold in the morning, so I had to calculate my yardages accordingly.
And past tournament I played fairly well, past three‑and‑a‑half rounds, so I was just trying to carry on what I did down at Torrey, and I think it trickled down towards today.
THE MODERATOR:   We'll open it up for some questions. 

Q.   What would you say it is that you have been working on lately to bring from Torrey to here? 
Y.E. YANG:   (Through translation.)   I tried to force a lot of my swings and putting, was being a little bit too aggressive, trying too hard.   So I eased up on everything. 
My putting has become a lot smoother, and my swing has become a lot more ‑‑I have increased actually my drawback of my swing.   So I don't put that much effort.   I just have a bigger swing now.

Q.   Is it hard not to get too aggressive in a tournament like this where 28‑under won last year and you have to go very low to win?
Y.E. YANG:   (Through translation.)   I think you have to be aggressive.   As you said, 28‑under, that's a very lofty target, four days.   At the same time, you can't be too aggressive.   I had that first‑time experience after my PGA win in 2010 where I shot a double on 17 and lost my chances to win.   You have to really balance it out, but you still have to be a little bit more aggressive than other tournaments.

Q.   Could you just describe how the conditions were out there and whether 7‑under you think might hold up this afternoon?
Y.E. YANG:   (Through translation.)   Well, I hope not (smiling).   I think 8‑under can be attained if the wind stays calm.   It wasn't that windy out there today.   Apart from being a little bit cold, it wasn't severely altering our game, so I think if the weather holds, as it does throughout the afternoon, so far then I think maybe 8‑under. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT