AMERICAN CENTURY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 17, 2011
Joe Sakic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Joe, first of all, congratulations. Great shot. And what club were you hitting? 
 JOE SAKIC: Hit an 8-iron. I just wanted to hit it on the right side and high and let the wind take it. But best shot I can ever imagine taking.
 THE MODERATOR: It looked like, when you hit the ball, you weren't sure because you bent over to pick up your tee, and it didn't look like you knew it went in. Did you know it went in instantly or what? 
 JOE SAKIC: I had no idea. I've never had a hole in one. Never been close. And when I hit it, I thought it was a good shot, I'd just pick up my tee and go try to make a putt. 
 But we went down, saw it, no one said anything. A few people said it went in. And Trent Dilfer said it went in, and I didn't believe him at first. He said: No, no, it went in. I was: Oh, really? 
 What a feeling.
 THE MODERATOR: Question that came up was 500,000 of this goes to the Livestrong Foundation; the other 500,000 goes to you. Any plans for this money? 
 JOE SAKIC: You know what, I'm just happy I got a hole in one for the first time in my life. I have no plans, but, you know, I feel very fortunate. I'm very excited to come to this tournament; the American Century and NBC, they do a great job at this tournament. 
 We all, for three days a year, feel like actual pros, until you see us swing, you realize we're not that good. But it's a special feeling to get a chance to come here once a year. You see all your old friends and meet new friends, and to be able to be a part of this is a great feeling.
 Obviously I could never imagine getting a hole in one, but I always said: If you're going to do it, you gotta do it big. So no bigger than this.
 THE MODERATOR: You also signed up as an amateur for the tournament. Does this prize, how does this affect your amateur status? 
 JOE SAKIC: They told us that it doesn't affect it at all. They deem it as it's a lucky shot. And if you watched me play, you'd know it was a lucky shot. 
 THE MODERATOR: Questions? 

 Q. Adrenalin rush, you've been in an NHL Stanley Cup playoff game. You've won it. How does this rate when you realize that it went in, I guess, just the emotions? 
 JOE SAKIC: Honestly, I didn't know what to think. And I was just so excited that I didn't have to make a putt because I wasn't putting very well today.
 No, it was just a great feeling. Like I said, I think anytime anybody gets a hole in one, it's just a thrill. Everybody goes nuts. And to be able to do it in front of all these people here, and you're on the 17th green, it's a wild stage. It's a lot of fun to be a part of that, and to do it there and on TV, I guess at this stage you couldn't dream this.

 Q. We've had about 25 tweets thus far from fans out on the golf course asking if you're buying everybody a round today. 
 JOE SAKIC: Oh, sure come into the clubhouse. (Laughter).

 Q. Take us through a little bit of your golf history, when you started playing, where you play most of your rounds, and lead us up to this hole in one, how long has it been? 
 JOE SAKIC: Actually, I think it was when I signed my first contract with the Nordiques, what you did, you played hockey. Hockey players played golf. So I bought some clubs and kind of started there.
 As it went on, you take lessons and you try and play a little more. I haven't played as much as I like, three kids, one's 14; I have a 14-year-old boy and boy/girl twins that are 10 right now, so you don't get as much time as you'd like. 
 But I just love the game, and that's basically when it all started. And playing hockey, what you do in the summer is you try and play as much golf as you can.

 Q. Any indecision on the tee? Was it 8-iron from the get-go?
 JOE SAKIC: Well, it was all going to be on the wind. It was pretty good right-to-left. And if it was into us a little bit, probably would have chosen 7. But it was helping us a little bit so I tried to throw a 8-iron and throw it high and hope for the best, and the best happened.

 Q. I'm curious what your handicap is, first?
 JOE SAKIC: Right now, if I look, it's around a 1, 1-to-2 index.

 Q. And what exactly is 500,000 Canadian?
 JOE SAKIC: Actually, I think Canadian, Canadian dollar is worth more right now. So I don't know. 

 Q. Who is the first one you're going to call when you get out of here and get the cell phone?
 JOE SAKIC: I saw my wife. She was out there and gave her a kiss. And probably I'll be calling my kids next.

 Q. Does your wife have plans for that 500 yet?
 JOE SAKIC: I didn't tell her. (Laughter). I'm just going to tell her I'm an amateur. 

 Q. Secret in the media room. 
 JOE SAKIC: Yeah, leave it here. (Laughter).

 Q. You have kids -- you just won a million dollars, I would imagine Disneyland is in order, no?
 JOE SAKIC: We go there all the time. So every year, every two years we're always at Disney World or Disneyland. I don't think this is going to let them go one more time. We'll be going anyways.

 Q. We were watching the crowd out there. It's pretty loud and raucous. Did you see the hole in one, or did they let you know?
 JOE SAKIC: It's tough from where we were to see it. I thought I hit a great shot. I just thought I was going to reach down, I was just happy to hit a good shot on that stage. And just was ready to grab my putter and putt. But nothing was happening. And then we saw a couple of people, or Trent saw a couple of people going: It's in; it's in. I didn't believe them at first, but they were like: No, it went in. 
 It's a pretty special feeling.

 Q. I know you probably couldn't see all of it, but from the recaps I'm getting, it sounds like it hit short of the flagstick, took one hop and trickled in; is that what I'm hearing?
 JOE SAKIC: Yeah, that's what someone told me.

 Q. You haven't seen it on TV?
 JOE SAKIC: No, I haven't seen it on TV. To be honest with you, I don't care how it went in. It could have hit some fan on the kneecap and rolled in, it would be perfect, still a hole in one.

 Q. Hockey player going after a kneecap. I understand that you were involved in the Korbel spray-off out on 17 the other day when they had that. 
 JOE SAKIC: Yes, we all did that.

 Q. I think you're going to do another shot to do that in here with that bottle of Korbel. So come on, show us. 
 JOE SAKIC: Where do you want me to spray it? 

 Q. I guess at the media. As far as 500,000 going to Livestrong, and the organization that's the charity for this event, do you know Lance, or do you know anything about his organization as far as cancer?
 JOE SAKIC: I've met him, yeah. So, I mean, obviously this is great. Does a great -- the whole charity is great for kids, a great cause, and for the tournament here. 
 It's a pleasure for us to be able to come here and play in the tournament and knowing you're helping people. 

 Q. When did you sign your first contract to get the golf clubs out?
 JOE SAKIC: 1988. And I could be wrong. It might have been -- I think that's when it was. I hit a couple of balls with friends when we were little, 12.

 Q. How old are you now?
 JOE SAKIC: I'm 42.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT