U.S. OPEN
August 28, 1996
Michael Tebbutt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. After that first set that you dropped, coming back, what was the order there? You
just sort of played better or he didn't play quite as well?
 
 MICHAEL TEBBUTT: I mean, in the first set, I was going for my shots. Even though I lost
it, I was still happy that I was going for my shots. I knew if I kept being aggressive,
they would come together. They came together in the second set more than any other set. It
was tough with the wind, my serve, had trouble with the serve. Then the wind died down and
I served great the last three or four sets. 
 
Q. So it was really a matter of being patient?
 
 MICHAEL TEBBUTT: Yeah. I just had to keep doing the same thing, the game plan that I
had, just keep being aggressive, attack the second serve, not get in long points with him
from the baseline. I wasn't going to beat him that way. Just had to keep being aggressive. 
 
Q. After last year getting through the Round of 16, it's sort of good to really pass
the first round this year?
 
 MICHAEL TEBBUTT: Yes. I'm defending a lot of points. For me, I haven't won a main draw
ATP match since May; I've been struggling. I always play well once I get a win. I had a
good attitude the whole way through, my concentration was great. 
 
Q. The confidence is better a lot better now for the rest of the tournament?
 
 MICHAEL TEBBUTT: Yes. I was probably better going a three setter. I'm real happy with
that. 
 
Q. The next round you play Haarhuis or Joyce. Have you played either of those two
before?
 
 MICHAEL TEBBUTT: I played Haarhuis at the Lipton in April, and I beat him pretty
convincingly. That was the last real good tournament I played. I played him. I haven't
played Joyce in singles. I know both of them fairly well. I think they suit my game. I
feel pretty comfortable playing both those two guys. 
 
Q. Every part of your game is now starting to come together, your serve, even though it
was windy today. You think it's going to be working well?
 
 MICHAEL TEBBUTT: I think so. It disappeared. I don't want to jinx it by saying too
much. Like the last three days, three or four days, it just came out of nowhere and came
back. I don't know what I'm doing, I don't want to know. It's working. 
 
Q. Thanks a lot, Mike.
 
 MICHAEL TEBBUTT: Thank you. 
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT