ING NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
November 2, 2011
Maureen Hennessey
Sarah Porter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   SARAH PORTER: I'll be racing in Ireland in February so, it should be nice and cold. I'm headed over there with a couple of teammates, so that's my next race after this.

 Q. How much do you see yourself racing before Nationals? 
 SARAH PORTER: I mean, I'm a race horse. I want to race as often as possible, so as much as he'll let me, I'll race. Definitely Mt. Sac 5K, Stanford 10K at the very least. But hopefully some more local on the east coast. 
 I haven't raced much on the east coast. So now that I'm here, it will be nice to get around.

 Q. Can you maybe talk about the transition from your college days? You're a D2 girl. Coming out of D2 and now being on the main stage here with all these elite athletes, walk us through that transition a little bit. 
 SARAH PORTER: You know, it's never an easy transition to be around people that you've idolized. It's like high school. I was actually looking at the list of invited athletes here, and I'm the youngest one. Like there is no one else my age. 
 To know that some of these women have been doing this since I was like 12 years old is really intimidating. It's one of those times where it makes me feel like I wish I was 35 with all the experience in the world. 
 I'm also really embracing feeling like the little fish in the big pond. Yeah, it's slightly uncomfortable and intimidating, but the more that I do this, I think the more accustomed to it I'll become.

 Q. Who have you idolized the most and what have they taught you? 
 SARAH PORTER: This is my hero right here. I'd like to introduce my grandmother. Just to give you a brief racing history, when she was 63, she ran a 24-hour race on the track and ran 90 miles. So this woman is my hero, and she inspires me. 
 I talk to her before every race. She's really the one that, you know, she kind of keeps me where I'm at.

 Q. What is your secret, what keeps the drive going after all those years? 
 MAUREEN HENNESSY: Once I became a runner, when I first did it, I hated it, and then I got addicted after I ran my first race. And after that, it was just who I am. Even when I can't run anymore, I'm still a runner. 
 SARAH PORTER: Tell them how much you leg press right now? 
 MAUREEN HENNESSY: I currently leg press 140 pounds. 
 SARAH PORTER: My mom as well. She became elite, I think she was 45, when she became an elite marathoner. I don't think she's done New York. 
 She's done ten cities and Houston, and I've been on the phone with her a little bit, talking to her - Mom, how did you handle fluid and the feeling of not going out too fast and being patient? It's been really great to have two generations of women, and my aunt, the American record holder for the 10K. 
 MAUREEN HENNESSY: She came in third in World Masters. 
 SARAH PORTER: That's right. So it's definitely I feel like I gain a lot off the energy of my family.

 Q. Maybe going into this weekend, what kind of things do you want to accomplish maybe timewise? What kind of makes you feel like you belong with these elite marathoners? 
 SARAH PORTER: I was just saying that the beauty of this being my first marathon, it's not about hitting a certain time. I don't have to be on TV right now, really. I don't have certain people that I need to run with. I think it's about going out and finding myself in this race. 
 There is a great quote I heard that said no one wins a marathon. They just survive it better than other people. I think it would be great to go out there and at the end of the day, they're just bodies out there with me. 
 So wherever I place, whatever timing, as long as I can cross that line and be like I love that. I want to do that again, I'll be happy in the race. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT