KITCHENAID SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 25, 2019
Ken Tanigawa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Obviously another strong round.  Conditions, can you fill us in on the rain and did the course seem a little more gettable today?  
KEN TANIGAWA: No.  The course is just as difficult as it was the other days.  It's just a real golf course.  There's no faking around here.  So it's just a challenge.   
 Q.  The starts and stops, how does that affect your play?  
KEN TANIGAWA: Well, it's not ideal.  I don't think anybody enjoys that, right?  But it's just part of golf.  You're playing outside.  What can you do.  So they give you plenty of time to warm up and get out there, so you just kind of deal with it.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
KEN TANIGAWA: I was very happy with par on 18.  I mean, that's not really what you want to do after the delay, go out there and have to play that hole.  Especially out of the rough.   
So, yeah, thrilled.  Any role, really, I'll take par really.   
 Q.  Where was that putt?  
KEN TANIGAWA: My first putt?   
 Q.  Yeah.  
KEN TANIGAWA: As long as that green is, I don't know, it's pretty far, I have no idea, 60 feet.  Too far.   
 Q.  Going into tomorrow, is it a mindset where let's go out, let's make par, maybe get a 70, see what else happens, or do you go in aggressive and see what you can get, as we mentioned, if there are any gettable holes?  
KEN TANIGAWA: No, I would just right from the first tee just do the best I can, hit the best shot I can and just really play it that way.  And I don't think you get aggressive out here.  You really have to execute your shots.  You have to stay patient.  I'm not really focused on a score.  Just try to execute and just plod along and see what happens.   
 Q.  Have you learned anything new about the course, each day?  Is it pretty much played the same way so far on every round, or are there, I don't know --  
KEN TANIGAWA: It's been -- the winds kind of changed a little bit; so that makes it a little bit more challenging in a sense, you're playing it differently.  We played in our practice rounds, we were seeing it in different winds.  So in that sense.  But over all, the three days, it's played -- outside of that, it's played pretty much the same.   
 Q.  We talked about your golfing journey.  Now to be in the position you're in, it was great to be in the first, you know, on Thursday, be at the podium, now to be going into Sunday, what is it like?  What's going through your head?  
KEN TANIGAWA: About it?   
 Q.  Just the situation.  
KEN TANIGAWA: It's pretty cool.  It's fun to be having this opportunity to play.  Yeah, like I said before, it's just a blessing to be out here and competing with these guys.  And it wasn't me to have a career like a lot of them out here.   
In the big picture, it's a blessing.  Tomorrow, yeah, I mean, it's incredible opportunity, but, again, it's 18 holes.  It's a lot of golf and a lot can happen.  So just go out and just really enjoy it and do the best you can.  Hopefully shoot something okay.   
 Q.  You mentioned you're competing against guys with all these vast, you know, histories.  Did it take you maybe a little bit more time to kind of feel like you belong?  
KEN TANIGAWA: Yeah, I guess so.  But, you know, they've all been very welcoming.  So it kind of helped, in that sense.  I don't know if you ultimately ever -- you know, maybe you always feel a little bit like an outsider, just because you never had that 30-year career Tour.   
But, no, it's been great.  They've been very welcoming.  So they made a potentially uncomfortable situation much more comfortable.   
 Q.  Was there ever an intimidation phase, maybe last year as a rookie?  Are you past that?  
KEN TANIGAWA: Yeah, it wasn't so much with the players, I think it was just more the environment, just getting -- I remember at Boca, my first event, I was fine until I got to the first tee, and all of a sudden I got really kind of nervous, and I was like, wow.   
But, no, not from the players, but just getting used to all this took a little bit.  But it seems to be okay now.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT