KITCHENAID SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 23, 2019
Ken Tanigawa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Do you feel like you made the right choice to come back and try professional golf?
KEN TANIGAWA: Yeah, right choice so far.  For sure.
Q. How did you get to 5-under par on this golf course?  It's not something we see too often here.
KEN TANIGAWA: Great question, and I didn't stay there very long.  I just played -- well, the first, early in the morning, was pretty benign.  There wasn't much wind, and when there was, it was pretty tame.  So it kind of lends itself -- there's opportunities because of that.  But that being said, it's very, very difficult.  So once the wind comes up like this, it's a challenge for sure.
Q. You saw some noticeable difference after the delay, then, you saw some judging distances, that type of thing?
KEN TANIGAWA: Yeah, once the wind started coming up, and as I think it might this afternoon, it becomes really a challenging golf course.  Bogeys are out there.  But what a great golf course.  It's unbelievable.
Q. Of course you won at Pebble, so you've seen --
KEN TANIGAWA: Right, yeah.  That was pretty cool.  Yeah, it's a great place.  That was pretty fun stuff.
Q. So when you got to 5-under, how were you trying to keep things in perspective knowing that you were playing Oak Hill and knowing that things were benign to a certain extent?
KEN TANIGAWA: Well, the wind started picking up a little bit.  And it was 14 and kind of a short hole, and I just hit a 4-iron down there and tried to be conservative.  In the practice rounds actually I was hitting drivers out there.  So I'd hit a fairway, then hit a mediocre wedge and three-putted and made bogey.  That was my first bogey.  And that's not really how I envisioned my first bogey to be.  I thought I might hit a rough and chop out and make a routine bogey.
So then just made another one right after that.  So that was how I got back to 3-under really easily.
Q. At what point did you start thinking that you were going to get the Champions Tour a crack?  Mid-40s before you starting to think, or was it really kind of later?
KEN TANIGAWA: It wasn't mid-40s.  It was -- well, I started -- I played well and I won some amateur tournaments later in my later 40s, and that kind of gave me, okay, well I'm playing okay.  That was -- at least I was doing that.  If I wasn't winning or anything like that, it would have been -- it was a bit of a pipe dream to just play amateur golf and say, hey, we're just going to leap over to Champions Tour, not going to go through Q-School and make it.  The players were really -- were way too good for that.
So I started winning some events, and that kind of checked the box, okay, I'm playing okay.  And then they allowed me as an amateur actually to enter the Q-School because to turn pro for five spots, I didn't want to lose my status to do that.  So that checked another box.  And then it was actually at home at TPC Scottsdale, because I live in Phoenix, so that kind of checked the third box.  So, hey, why not enter.  And it kind of worked out.  I got through, and it was pretty cool.
Q. The winnings just last year, have you won more than you did when you were --
KEN TANIGAWA: Not playing golf, no, I mean --
Q. No, but back in the '90s when you were in Japan?
KEN TANIGAWA: Not in a year like that, no.  It's when I walked away from the game.  I mean, I didn't feel I was very good, so obviously no reason to keep doing it.  Right?  So I walked away from it, which is fine.  It worked out well.  And then this has been a real blessing.  I mean, it really has.  You know, a lot of the guys I knew, a lot of them I didn't.  Like I've said before, everybody's been very, very welcoming, so it's been a lot of fun.  A lot of fun.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT