NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: DEVILS v AVALANCHE
June 6, 2001
Rob Blake
Ray Bourque
Steven Reinprecht
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ROB BLAKE:  I don't know if I think the pressure switches hands.  Obviously there is a desperation feel.  You have to come out and play and win.  The pressure to close out the fourth game is the hardest.  We're going to go in there  -- we've got to be loose enough where we can go out and play hard.


Q.  Your coach said you have to do a better job of hitting the net.  When you miss the net it absolutely kills the offense.

ROB BLAKE:  Anything you throw at the net is a good opportunity.  It doesn't matter how hard it is or whatever because there are rebounds, there are different bounces,  and to get the shot count up and get pucks in the net, you have to make sure you get it there.


Q.  It would be nice if you got a break along the way, the Stevenson Goal was a fluky one.  I don't think Colorado (inaudible)

ROB BLAKE: I don't know if we've been thrown the puck enough to get those.  You have to be driving the net, and sooner or later it's going to bounce the right way for you.

Q.  What was the mind set for that game?  Does it change at all knowing if you lose you're done?

RAY BOURQUE:  Well, you're desperate in that situation.  You go out and play your best, I think, and if you do that you're going to give yourself a great chance to win with what we have in this room.


Q.  People keep mentioning Roy's mistake in the last game in Jersey.  But without Roy's performance, would the Avs even be here?

RAY BOURQUE: That's a joke so I'm not even going to answer that.


Q.  Are you surprised by the fact that New Jersey is 7-5 and how they've struggled on the ice?

RAY BOURQUE: Somewhat, I guess, but they are a quality team and they are where they are because no matter where they play they could win.  They've done a good job in our building and we've got to go do the same in their building.

Q.  (Inaudible) What's the mind set as you go into Game 6 in New Jersey?

STEVEN REINPRECHT: Everybody knows our backs are against the wall and, you know, we have to come out with our best effort, play loose and give it everything we've got.


Q.  Is that what you were doing when you were playing in Wisconsin?

STEVEN REINPRECHT: That's what you have to do in college.  It's a one-game elimination.


Q.  When you talk about going out there, you guys split.  You had never won there before.  How much confidence does it give the team knowing that you can win and you've seen yourselves win in New Jersey?

STEVEN REINPRECHT: We won Game 3 there, but every game is a dog fight and every game has its own story.  It doesn't matter what's happened before.  We know we can go in there and play hard.


Q.  Are you surprised by their 7-5 record at home?

STEVEN REINPRECHT: It's a little deceiving.  They play a good game at home.  They are a good team.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT