NAVISTAR LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY MONACO R.V.
October 9, 2010
Nicole Hage
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. I have to ask, because it's not easy to find orange shoes. I have to ask, is this something you do every fall, or is this special for Alabama?
 NICOLE HAGE: I wear orange as much as possible. It's my favorite color. But today's game day. You got to have your game day outfit on.

 Q. If you were in another state, would it still be orange or more for this?
 NICOLE HAGE: More for this tournament. But I normally wear orange at least on Sundays. 

 Q. You said yesterday making the cut was great, but it's better being in contention. Do you feel like you're in contention now?
 NICOLE HAGE: I just looked, and Cristie Kerr is 19-under. (Laughing.) I mean, you know, there's only so much you can say about that. She's putting out of her mind out there right now. 
 There's still tomorrow. Anything can happen. There's a lot of birdies out there, so you could definitely go really, really low out here.

 Q. It's got to feel good now after three rounds still playing well. One thing is doing it one round, but being able to continue to do it, it's got to be...
 NICOLE HAGE: It's a huge confidence booster. And especially with what I've gone through this year and just what I've been working on and how hard I've been working, it's really good to see that I'm feeling comfortable with my swing and just feeling it out there again.
 It has definitely been a while, yeah.

 Q. Is this the best you've played you think professionally?
 NICOLE HAGE: I think so, yeah. I mean, I played really well last year at Q-School. This is definitely the best golf that I've ever played. I think I've gone to a new level. I've been working harder than I've ever worked before.

 Q. I was going to ask you, do you think that is because of the hard work?
 NICOLE HAGE: Just the hard work and the atmosphere that I've been in. Living at the academy in Orlando has really helped me a lot to just focus on my golf. 
 My caddie is great. She's really helped me a lot. 

 Q. How long have you been with her?
 NICOLE HAGE: This is her first week, but we're really good friends. We've known each other for a really long time. It's just -- we get along great. We talk about nothing important, other than when it's time to pick the club and the distance.
 So she just keeps me distracted. But she's great and she's really helped me a lot...

 Q. So she just helps you keep it light?
 NICOLE HAGE: Keep it light. We just have good conversation out there. Yeah, but she's great at picking targets in the distance and stuff like that. 
 I have no worries. I just know she's right. I just grab the club and just make the swing.

 Q. You look pretty relaxed. 
 NICOLE HAGE: I feel really relaxed out there. 

 Q. Okay. Cool. Thank you. 
 NICOLE HAGE: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT