NAVISTAR LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY MONACO R.V.
October 8, 2010
Nicole Hage
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Talk about what it was like last night? Didn't get a chance to talk to you because I didn't have my flashlight with me. What was it like to have to stop and start back this morning?
 NICOLE HAGE: It was definitely really dark. Once I saw the sun go down on 16 I was like, Crap, we're not going to finish. But we just really wanted to get 17 done. And 17 is kind of down a little, so it was really dark. I had a short put for birdie that I missed because I couldn't read it. 
 Then 18 was pretty much pitch black. I just had really good momentum going. I hitting my driver really well. I really just wanted it to get that drive down 18. 
 After I hit my drive, I was like, I have to hit the shot. Like if you girls want to hit, you can hit. I'm hitting this shot. It literally was pitch black and hit it to like six feet, so if they brought lights out I would have probably tried to putt it. 
 I'm used to practicing when it gets really dark like that because I've been working really hard on my game the last few months. I just switched teachers, and normally he has to kick me off the range when it's like that.

 Q. When we talked the other day you were coming out Tuesday and working with him. 
 NICOLE HAGE: Yeah, Gary's been out here.

 Q. How has that gone since you're now in tenth place, doing well, making the cut?
 NICOLE HAGE: Making the cut obviously is just a huge -- finally got through that barrier. I don't know how many events, 11, I missed all 11. So it's kind of been a bummer. 
 It's nice to see that my hard work is paying off. I just don't want to come out here and just make cuts. I mean, I want to be in contention. Like I looked at Cristie on one hole and I go, That's how it should be, like my name on the leaderboard week after week.
 That's what I want. Like I didn't want to come out here this week and just make the cut. Like I want to be in contention and give myself a chance to really, you know, to really win. 

 Q. Do you feel like after the way you played the first couple days that you're in that contention?
 NICOLE HAGE: Yeah, I have left so many putts out there. I mean, it's hard to say after being 6-under, but if I looked back at all the putts that I just missed, it's in the double digits.
 I feel good. 

 Q. Good. 
 NICOLE HAGE: No, it's good. Could be the other way.

 Q. Is it a mechanics thing? Or is it just one of those days where they're not going?
 NICOLE HAGE: It's a speed thing. I've been reading it how I want to, and then I'm hitting it too hard like through my breaks. I just have to work on the speeds a little bit. 

 Q. A lot of Auburn fans are going to be wondering where you're going to be watching the game tomorrow night?
 NICOLE HAGE: Actually, with my housing tomorrow we're having a barbeque at the house? We're going to watch the game. Very important. I hope my tee time is not that late. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT