BAYLOR UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 15, 2018
Tyquan Thornton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Duke - 40, Baylor - 27
Q. Obviously disappointed with the loss today.  But you stepped up and made two big catches including the touchdown.  How is it a mixed bag for you today after you got to show what you can do, but the team does take a loss?
TYQUAN THORNTON: It kind of hurts me, you feel me?  My first chance of being able to step up and play, but we'll get it right next game.
Q. Did you know maybe not until right before the game that Denzel wasn't going to be able to go?  How ready were you to kind of step up, I guess?
TYQUAN THORNTON: I was very excited just to be a great teammate and step in for him and make big plays.
Q. Talk about those ones that you kind of almost jump balls, particularly the one in the end zone and the one you had early on?  Talk about those and your ability to go up and get them?
TYQUAN THORNTON: Oh, that's all we practice in practice.  Just going up, high point on the ball, staying focused and locking in on the ball and making good catches.
Q. What was the message at halftime and how did you feel like you guys responded?
TYQUAN THORNTON: You know, we had a bad start, so we just had to come out and correct the mistakes and make big plays.
Q. How confident were you going in and being ready to do -- to step up like that and knowing the plays and knowing what you had to do?
TYQUAN THORNTON: I'm very confident because I was very prepared.
Q. Was there a difference between the quarterbacks for you?  Is there a rhythm or a difference or do you kind of react to each of them equally?
TYQUAN THORNTON: Yeah, I react to both of them equally.  There is no difference at all.
Q. How much do you guys miss Denzel Mims?  How important is he to the team?
TYQUAN THORNTON: Denzel is very important to the team.  We just want everybody to be out there healthy, playing, just making plays.
Q. Tyquan, did it help you just to be here in the spring and maybe kind of get that semester behind you?
TYQUAN THORNTON: Yes, it's helped me.
Q. What did you get out of that?  Maybe it was just going through the spring semester?
TYQUAN THORNTON: Yeah, I was able to put on a lot of weight, get stronger and faster, just get a taste of it just a little bit.
Q. You've been in on the kickoffs.  Josh was back there, broke one a little bit today.  Is that kind of exciting because that's another freshman?
TYQUAN THORNTON: Yeah, it's very exciting to see my brother go out there and make plays.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT