US OPEN
September 2, 1997
Monica Seles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Describe the player you ran into today, Monica, and how tough were the things she
threw at you? 
 
 MONICA SELES: I just felt she just played better on the key points. She went for her
shots. I was hitting short and to the middle. She mixed it up really well. Serve was going
a lot better than my serve. That made a big difference. 
 
Q. Having had a match point in the second set, how easy is it to accept the loss?
 
 MONICA SELES: It's tough. The match point, she did hit a great two shots to save that
one. But then I felt I made a couple of easy unforced errors to lose the second set, and
that was frustrating. Probably the most frustrating was the third set when I had 40-Love
on her serve. 
 
Q. Is her game like playing Steffi a little bit, looks that way?
 
 MONICA SELES: I think Steffi is her idol, so I think she modeled it after Steffi's
game. 
 
Q. You looked so tired in the third set, toward the end of the third set. I wonder
whether your illness from last week was still sort of lingering around, making you a
little weaker than you normally might be?
 
 MONICA SELES: I started having a stomachache at the beginning of the second set. It was
bothering me. She just played better, kept the ball going, long points, struggling with
that by the end of the second set. Then the third set, I think it was bothering me more
and more. She just hit some great shots. 
 
Q. Did you have any stomachache this morning or anything, coming here?
 
 MONICA SELES: No. It started in the second set. I ate something at 7:30. Probably a
little bit hungry. I had so much water in my system, but no food. I tried to mix up some
of the sugar drinks, and it helped, but it was too late. 
 
Q. Difficult to accept that you lose to players that you normally beat a couple years
ago?
 
 MONICA SELES: It beat Irina this year also. It's a match, really hard. I felt I should
have won the match. But then I have to give her credit that she played some great tennis,
mixed it up. She didn't choke when she was up. She went for all her shots at every point. 
 
Q. Pete losing yesterday; you today. Does that point to the vulnerability of top
players or that there are just so many other good players out there?
 
 MONICA SELES: I think there are more players out there. You have to look at each match
on an individual basis. You have to look at the circumstances. With two points, it could
have gone either way. 
 
Q. (Inaudible) Grand Slams than it used to be?
 
 MONICA SELES: Definitely more than four or five years ago, that's for sure. This year,
that has been one of the biggest disappointments, the Grand Slams. This one, having match
points, can't close them out. Today I felt I went for them. Both opponents came up with
some great shots, though. 
 
Q. How far do you think she could go?
 
 MONICA SELES: That's hard to say. I think she just should focus on her next match.
We'll see. 
 
Q. If you could play one point over again in that whole match, which would it be?
 
 MONICA SELES: It would be hard to pick one. I would really like the game back when I
was 40-Love on her serve. That's a big one to let out of your hands like that. 
 
Q. Difficult to play knowing that your father at home is fighting? 
 
 MONICA SELES: That wasn't in my mind. She just was a clearly better tennis player
today. 
 
Q. Just in general, traveling so much?
 
 MONICA SELES: It's hard. But going into the tournament, I put that aside. 
 
Q. Did you feel pressured on your second serve?
 
 MONICA SELES: I couldn't find my serve today. I don't think I was winning too many
first serves, which usually I could score a lot of more aces. And second serve, she just
swung at them. She has nothing to lose going into the match. When you're free, usually
your ball goes in. Once the ball goes in, it's hard to get them. 
 
Q. Is each Grand Slam now a little more precious to you than it was at the beginning of
your career? There were so many in front of you.
 
 MONICA SELES: No. I mean, I still go in the same way that I did, but a disappointing
last year and a half, not getting the same results. 
 
Q. You said earlier this year you started to think negatively sometimes when things
were going wrong. Were you fighting that in the third set?
 
 MONICA SELES: Not just in the third set, but from the beginning of the match I was
struggling. I went down a break even in the first set. I was lucky to pull it out. But I
felt I had a little bit against Mary, I played Mary two days ago, too. 
 
Q. What is your schedule now, Monica? Where do you go?
 
 MONICA SELES: I go to Tokyo on Tuesday, my next tournament. 
 
Q. Are you still capable of winning Slams or is the new generation taking over?
 
 MONICA SELES: As I always answer that: Time will tell. 
 
Q. How far along is your game right now, if you had to analyze it based on what you've
achieved and today's match?
 
 MONICA SELES: Well, I feel I played some good tennis coming into here. I really felt my
game dropped a little bit against Pierce, and definitely today even more. It was not the
same level, not the same attacking that I used to play in the first few rounds. 
 
Q. Is that due to physical or psychological factors, or both?
 
 MONICA SELES: That's hard to say at this point. I would have to think about that one
for a while. 
 
Q. Monica, you've had a full year of traveling without your coach. Do you feel
satisfied with your ability to analyze your play and your strategy as you move through a
tournament? 
 
 MONICA SELES: At this point, I do. 
 
Q. Anything particular in that game where you had her Love-40 in the third set?
Anything particular you'd do differently?
 
 MONICA SELES: Well, I believe throughout the match, she served better. She won more
points when she had her first serve in. If I hit my first serve in, I had to work for the
point. A lot of times she put me on the defense. Her next shot would usually be a winner. 
 
Q. Are you thinking of adding a coach or are you happy where you are?
 
 MONICA SELES: No. I'm very happy where I am. 
 
Q. With Martina Hingis and the other teenagers playing so well in this tournament, with
this upset today, a lot of people who follow tennis are going to begin to say that you may
be on your way out now. Do you agree with that or disagree?
 
 MONICA SELES: I don't think about that. I mean, I just try to take it a match at a
time. That's as far as I'm thinking right now. 
 
Q. What do you have to change in the Slams to be a force again? Is it fitness or is it
making your shots?
 
 MONICA SELES: Each ones were really close losses. It's tough. I don't know. I'll have
to analyze that a little bit.  
 
Q. Do you feel there's more depth out there than there maybe was before, three, four
years ago?
 
 MONICA SELES: Yeah, definitely. But even before when I won the French, a couple of the
French's or US Opens, I still have 7-6's in the third set, everything. But a lot of times,
this year especially, those matches were getting away from me. I had a couple good ones
that I could pull out coming into the Open. I pulled one out two days ago, but today I
couldn't. 
 
Q. Given the stomachache that you had and the weather conditions, did you feel any
pressure to get it over with in the second set tiebreaker?
 
 MONICA SELES: No. I was just frustrated. You know, each time I felt like shouldn't have
got into a tiebreaker the second set, but I did. That wasn't on my mind at all, the
weather and all that stuff. 
 
Q. Monica, given how excited you were Monday night with the whole ceremonies here, does
that make this sting a little more? Were you thinking Monday night, "I want to be
here in the winner's circle again"?
 
 MONICA SELES: No, no. At that point I was just in the present. I definitely would love
to be here Sunday. But not on Monday night. 
 
Q. Did you play too much tennis this summer?
 
 MONICA SELES: That's hard to say. I mean, I can't say I did because here every other
day you have a day off. If I would have won, I have two days off, not playing doubles, I
don't think so. 
 
Q. When you didn't have that game, where you had all the breakpoints, she comes back to
win, is there a feeling after that game of, "That was my shot," and is it hard
to come back after that?
 
 MONICA SELES: It was just frustration in my mind a little bit that I had a chance in
the second set and here we go again. It would be nice to have a 2-Love lead. To lose five
points at that critical stage of a match, it's not a good sign. 
 
Q. After two years, you've been back now for two years on the tennis Tour, have you
come to any realization in your mind that although you're having a good time, you're
enjoying playing, you are never going to be the No. 1 player in the world again?
 
 MONICA SELES: No, not at this point. 
 
Q. You said that you came in feeling the same as you always did. Does that mean you're
playing the same physically? Do you feel you're playing at the same level and that others'
general level has gone up, or do you feel you're just not playing at the same level you
used to?
 
 MONICA SELES: That's hard to say. You probably could see that better from the outside.  
 
Q. How does it feel to you then?
 
 MONICA SELES: To me? 
 
Q. Yes.
 
 MONICA SELES: I do feel there's more of a depth in the game right now, which before a
lot of the earlier rounds were a lot easier. Right now you have a couple of the players
who can beat any of the tops ones, and we've seen that with everyone except Martina this
year. 
 
Q. What did you do before to beat Spirlea that you weren't able to do today?
 
 MONICA SELES: I just think I hit way too many shots to the middle and short. And she
didn't make as many unforced errors as she usually does. 
 
Q. Do you see her as a star which can go really up?
 
 MONICA SELES: Irina? 
 
Q. Yes.
 
 MONICA SELES: I think only time will tell that. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT