US OPEN
August 29, 1997
Monica Seles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Monica, if you've been asked this before, what's the new stadium like? The
atmosphere, the crowds, is it as raucous as the previous stadium?

MONICA SELES: I love the new stadium. I love the way the court is. Just the shape of
it, I like the surface. I'm very happy with it. Feel very comfortable playing on it.

Q. Monica, if you look at the scores for the first three matches, has it been as easy
as the scores look, or are you as happy and pleased with the way you've been playing these
first three matches?

MONICA SELES: I'm pretty happy. I felt I played a good first-round match. And the
second round, I never played her, never knew much about her, so I was surprised how well
she actually played. Gave me a tough match. Today, a top player. I thought I would have
had a much tougher match. I did have the answers to her shots at most of the key times.
Although I lost that long game after the rain break, I was still able to hold the momentum
in my favor.

Q. Monica, since the comeback, the point at which you're playing tennis now, the level
you're playing at now, is it the highest level since the comeback right now?

MONICA SELES: I think probably since the comeback, I'd have to say I played really well
in Toronto two years ago, and 1995 at the US Open. I would say probably those two.

Q. Why did you play a lot this summer, Monica?

MONICA SELES: Going into it, I didn't think I would play as much. But after I lost in
San Francisco, I felt I needed some matches. I wasn't practicing as much. I felt this way
I would have no choice, because I know my butt is going to be on the line. Just
personality-wise I'm going to be out and practice. The past three or four weeks has been
the most consistent tennis. I didn't want to be home. There's no one home. I felt, why not
play some matches and have a little bit of consistency in my tennis career that way?

Q. Monica, when you are making such easy work of your opponents, are you getting
anything out of these early matches? Are you able to prepare for the tougher ones that
will come?

MONICA SELES: Definitely. I had to return really well. She was serving a lot of 105s. A
lot of long points. A lot of games were 30-30. Usually the early rounds are more routine.
Nowadays, not as routine as when I left The Tour.

Q. How does the way you're playing now compare with the best that you've played in your
comeback? You mentioned that was a while ago. How does right now compare? Also, your
emotional state for this tournament, how does that compare with how you felt during the
comeback?

MONICA SELES: It's so different. So many things changed since '95. But as I said
before, I mean, for me it helped a lot the last few tournaments to have some consistency
in terms of practice, get used to playing matches and the confidence that comes with
playing matches. You can practice as much as you want, but it's different when it's a
match and a pressure situation. A lot of times this year, I had trouble closing out
matches like that. So I felt the answer to that is just to play more matches. And so
that's what I tried to do. I really didn't plan that I'm going to play this many
tournaments before the Open, that's for sure.

Q. Have you regained your confidence to the point that you are confident no matter who
you're playing?

MONICA SELES: I think I just feel more comfortable when I step on the court. When
you're not so sure where your balls are going to go, you don't feel as comfortable when
you step out there. Now at least I feel that I worked hard and I feel I can control my
shots. If I hit a great shot, I might not miss four other ones; it will maybe be 2-2,
which before the ratio was even better. If I keep being consistent with my workouts, I can
get back the ratio that Hingis has right now.

Q. Have you been playing a lot to take your mind off your dad? How difficult has that
been?

MONICA SELES: Well, it's been a hard summer because the first time I had to be without
a coach. You talk to your dad on the phone about the match. It's not the same as him being
in the locker room before the match, seeing the matches at Wimbledon. So it's been very
hard. Mentally it's also been really hard. It was a long time being away from him. I just
don't want to do that at that level again. So I talk to him a lot about it. I just need to
find a balance, and that's what I'm going to try to do: play a lot of weeks in a row and
take a lot of weeks off to be able to spend some time with him.

Q. Monica, you were saying the other day there have been so many changes among the
players, you recognize maybe half of them. Of course, years ago a certain player, not to
be named, said, "You don't chat it up enough in the locker room." Are things
changing now? Do you talk with younger players? Are you sort of playing the role of elder?

MONICA SELES: Oh, no, not yet. But I do think the new generation is a lot friendlier,
more open. I feel that with Martina, with Anna, Mirjana. Those are the ones that I talk
to. Much more happier. I think they have a little bit more of a balance than the prior
generation. But I do think you always learn from the past players. They saw that something
maybe didn't work, so they're trying to change it. But we have to wait five years. That's
what we thought with a lot of them, when they were in their primes. Five years afterwards,
that's a different story. Only time will tell, I think.

Q. At Wimbledon, Novotna said there was a big difference in the locker room going into
the final with Steffi as opposed to Martina Hingis. Is that true of the whole tournament?

MONICA SELES: I think so. That's why I really love Martina. I came on The Tour, the air
around the No. 1 players was really different. I really love what Martina is doing. She's
normal. That has a lot to do with her age, no question. She'll talk to the 100th ranked
player the same as she talks to the 4th ranked player in the world. Very few of the past
champions when I was in the locker room had that. The players are younger. When I came on
The Tour, Chris and Martina were just about to leave. There was a bigger age difference.
It was harder to find anything in common. Right now, five or six years, one or two like
with Iva, it's not a big difference. You have a lot more things in common to talk about.

Q. Ever chatted with Venus Williams?

MONICA SELES: No, no, never.

Q. You don't talk?

MONICA SELES: No.

Q. When was the last time you saw your dad?

MONICA SELES: I saw him in Atlanta. He came for two days on his way to the Mayo Clinic.

Q. Monica, coming in here, you were spending a lot of time to get your unforced errors
down. They are here. I wonder if there is a correlation between when you have fewer
unforced errors, if you feel more likely or more safe going to the net?

MONICA SELES: To the net?

Q. Yes.

MONICA SELES: Definitely. And I tried to do that a few times. After I won LA, I felt I
had more confidence in Toronto a few times. In practices, too. In a match, like today in a
Grand Slam, it's really tough. But in terms of the groundstrokes, definitely, it does help
when you cut down the unforced errors because you feel so much more confident going for
your big shots.

Q. But there's not a direct relationship between getting to the net, which is something
you also talked about a lot?

MONICA SELES: To me, it's just the initial getting there. I really feel every single
person, starting from Billie Jean to Martina to everybody who played volleys, have done
very well. I just think it's the hump of getting over it. Right now, I felt that my
groundstrokes were not there, where they were before, so I felt I needed to get that back.
But hopefully after the Open is over, when all these tournaments are coming, there's much
less pressure, indoor season, hopefully I'll be able to do that.

Q. Monica, when you were dominating, I'm assuming you went into tournaments figuring or
expecting to at least be in the Finals, if not win the thing. Are you like that now? Do
you go in here thinking you're going to be in the final?

MONICA SELES: Well, I pretty much try to go in every tournament, because I really don't
believe you should be there if you don't believe that you can win it. That's not why I'm
playing tennis. Lately, I think I look very similar to how I used to look before. But that
was a while ago, so it's really hard to go back into that mind set.

Q. Monica, how is your health right now?

MONICA SELES: It's okay.

Q. Getting better?

MONICA SELES: A lot better. I don't have a temperature for the last five days, so
that's been great. It's just that the cough is still coming out. I think my body hasn't
had enough time to recover. Otherwise, no. Hopefully my energy will be fully back by
Sunday.

Q. How are you able to keep just your focus? Is it difficult to keep your focus on the
tennis, with everything else off the court that's going on right now?

MONICA SELES: Well, I think I do the best that I can. For me, the hardest is like when
I go home and I need to talk about different issues, to try to turn that side off, this
side off, back, on and off. Some days I'm really good at it; some days are really hard. I
have a couple close friends that have helped me tremendously, my mom. I do my best. I try
to separate at least during the Grand Slams, but sometimes that's not possible, like this
week. That is my priority, my dad, for sure, over anything else.

Q. Are these tennis friends, the close friends, or people outside of tennis?

MONICA SELES: One of them is Betsy Nagelsen, also a tennis player. We're both friends
on and off the court. Her husband, too. Then I have a couple other friends from Sarasota,
one of them is here, who have been very supportive.

Q. During the summer, have you been traveling pretty much by yourself?

MONICA SELES: Pretty much since Lipton, all this year.

Q. What was the last match that your dad was able to come out and see you and be at
court side?

MONICA SELES: The championships against Date.

Q. The championships?

MONICA SELES: Against Kimiko.

Q. Last year at the Garden?

MONICA SELES: Yes.

Q. Last year when we talked to Steffi when Steffi was here, the problems that she was
having with her dad's problem, she talked that the court was sort of a safe area, she was
able to sort of try to forget. Is there anything like that for you? 

MONICA SELES: I think it's different. Obviously you never know how much time you have
with somebody. With Steffi's dad, it was a little different. She knew she would have a
long time with him. It's hard for me. It's just time that you want to spend with the
person really.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT