THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 25, 1997
Monica Seles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
VERONIQUE MARCHAL:  Questions for Monica. 
   

Q.  Does this hardcourt surface play faster, slower or the same?
 
MONICA SELES:  It's hard to prepare because the last hardcourt tournament I played was at the US Open, and that was nine months ago.  Pretty similar to a court that I have at my house.  I like it. 
   

Q.  Monica, are you ready for a day off?
 
MONICA SELES:  Yeah.  It's a welcome one (laughter).  If I would have to play tomorrow, I would be ready.  I look at it that way.  It's nice. 
   

Q.  How do you feel right now?  You show good skills. You ready to get the final?
 
MONICA SELES:  I don't know.  Obviously the way I played today, I need a little more consistency.  I could hit some nice shots, then I could just drop.  I had a hard time closing out a couple of key games.  That's, I think, a lack of matchplay.  I don't know who I play in the semis.  If I play Paulus, I never played her.  If I play Testud, I had a very close set against her at the US Open. 
   

Q.  Monica, aside from your tennis, did you come in trying to figure out and wanting to see how your body would react to this thing?  It seems like it's holding up, right?
 
MONICA SELES:  Yeah. 
   

Q.  Is that something you were coming in and examining as time went on?
 
MONICA SELES:  Pretty much.  I still don't feel I have the confidence that I should.  I think that's just going to be playing a lot of tennis.  Obviously, here you play quite a lot of matches in a ten-day period.  I wasn't sure how I'm going to play physically and mentally.  Physically, definitely I'm happy because I'm not tired or anything like that.  Game-wise, I'm happy on some games that I played and some not so. 
   

Q.  Playing four days in a row, how did it affect your game?
 
MONICA SELES:  Not much.  I really didn't think of it that way.  Each day keeps my mind busy, which at this point maybe it's better. 
   

Q.  Physically, no problems?
 
MONICA SELES:  No, nothing.  
   

Q.  Shoulder's all right?
 
MONICA SELES:  Yes. 
   

Q.  Is there a possibility to play Barbara Paulus next round?
 
MONICA SELES:  Her or Testud.  I mean, whoever wins the match, that's who I'm going to think about.  I never played Barbara, so who I'm hitting with, he'll have to do some scouting. 
   

Q.  Monica, how does your father's illness weigh on your mind even during an event like this?  How tough is it?
 
MONICA SELES:  Obviously, it's really hard.  It's hard as a coach, but he's also my dad.  He was such a big part, he's such a key part of my life; he's much less of a part now.  I talk to him on the phone and all those things. It's tough.  He told me that I have to do what I love to do. This is what I love to do.  Obviously it's a big change.  I do hope he'll be able to come to some tournaments after he starts feeling better.  That's about it. 
 
MONICA SELES:  Thank you. 
   

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT