U.S. OPEN
September 8, 1996
Monica Seles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Monica, I think everyone wants to know why you would go to Tokyo next week and then
come back to Atlantic City. With all that traveling, I suppose there are guarantees
involved, but why would you do it?

MONICA SELES: You might know more than I do. Simply because of Yonex, the racket
company.

Q. It is a contract thing, in other words?

MONICA SELES: Yes.

Q. What about the match, she was playing too good?

MONICA SELES: I think Steffi played on key points much better today, but I think the
key was her serve, that she just kept getting her first serve in. I had no chance of
returning it and I had a much harder time holding my serve and that is where she got the
breaks, pretty early on and I couldn't hold on. Again, after I broke her to be 5-All, and
she just played, I think, on every level a little bit better today than I did.

Q. Was your shoulder bothering when you were serving those big serves? 

MONICA SELES: No. I don't think -- I just think, you know, it was the same as before,
no big deal. She just clearly was -- she served some awesome serves today and I wasn't
doing that. I served some great ones, but then I served also some really weak ones.

Q. Did you take any kind of pain killing injections or medicine before this match for
your shoulder?

MONICA SELES: I don't take injections, but I do take painkillers, yeah.

Q. Antiinflammatories?

MONICA SELES: Yeah, but I have been taking them for like three, four months now, so, I
don't think they had much difference now. I am used to it, I think. I had taken more
before the match against Conchita and today because I knew I had to be better, little less
pain, but no big deal.

Q. When the rain was getting close, was it distracting?

MONICA SELES: No. I was just trying to stay focused at that point. That is all I was
worried about because I had no control over the rain or anything else.

Q. It appeared that a majority of your errors came from your forehand side today. Did
you think Steffi was picking on that side a little bit?

MONICA SELES: I think so, but I seem to feel one of the key points was my returning and
I don't think I returned-- returned very bad against her last year in the finals and -- I
mean, this year also, I think that was a little bit tough for me because I usually rush
much better and I think, you know, you need to have more breakpoint chances than I was
able to gather today.

Q. In the first set you were going toe-to-toe with Steffi, usually crosscourt. Do you
feel she has changed it up a little in the second set, she was going more down the line?

MONICA SELES: I didn't notice that, no. I just think she got a little bit more
confidence once she broke me in the first game of the second set.

Q. Did she rush you a little bit more than usual?

MONICA SELES: No. That is pretty much my style too.

Q. Was that as well as she served against you?

MONICA SELES: I think she served really well against me last year. I don't know. It is
hard to compare, but definitely, I think most of - I shouldn't look over how fast she is
serving, but I always do. She had tons of 95s first serves in and this close to the line
(indicating inches). It is tough to return that, so, she definitely served well.

Q. When you see those serves come in like that, does take the zest out, it didn't look
like -- you looked at times like you just - the sun was shining after that first set; you
really weren't as zestful as you usually are?

MONICA SELES: Well, I really didn't feel like that out there. I felt like I was going
to run for every ball there is, you know. It definitely is hard when you work hard for a
point; then you miss a return, kind of an unforced error definitely cools you down a
little bit, but --

Q. Do you feel like the score was not - I mean, the match was not as close as the score
indicated?

MONICA SELES: I don't know. I felt that if I could have, you know, I needed to hold my
serves a little bit more and that is what I wasn't able to do today and also, you know, to
break Steffi and - that is also tough. I am in the heat of the match, so, many other
things are going on in your mind. I needed a little bit more time to reassess this match.

Q. What was your strategy going into the match?

MONICA SELES: To play my game and just attack mostly as always. I really don't go in
playing strategy against anybody.

Q. You haven't beaten her for a lot of years for a lot of different reasons. How
important is it now at this moment looking ahead for you to be able to beat Steffi?

MONICA SELES: Well, I pretty much have beaten Steffi before I got stabbed, before I had
beaten her. I only played her twice now in the year that I have been back. Most times she
was very close, but each time on the close points she played much better than I did, so,
you know, all you can do is try to improve for the next match pretty much.

Q. How good is she?

MONICA SELES: I think her record speaks -- she is a great player. She is winning
constantly Grand Slam tournaments. She is still very young, so, she has a lot more in her.
So, I mean, she is a great player and great athlete. When you have that combination, it is
tough to play against anybody like that.

Q. What made you serve volley a few times in the match? Was that a surprise attack?

MONICA SELES: Well, I have been doing that in practice. Sooner or later, I better do it
in a match or I am going to be 40 years old and still never try it, so, I might as well
have tried it. That is my view on it. I think a few times it was successful and a few
times I wasn't, but at least I had the guts to go in a few times today which I didn't do
before in my life.

Q. Do you think you will go back?

MONICA SELES: To going in?

Q. Yeah.

MONICA SELES: Oh, yeah I will do that. I am just going to tell myself no pressure. That
is the only way to learn or otherwise, I should just decide and not spend even a minute
practicing the volleys.

Q. Last year you came in here having lost really having had a great time it was fun.
Was it any fun today?

MONICA SELES: Oh, always when you play somebody like Steffi, you know, you have to play
some great tennis. It's a challenge. It is always fun. I mean, you know, when you play a
close match, it is not fun like, I don't know, some other fun, but it is still great. I
still wished I had some chances that I have done some things differently, but what is gone
is gone and, you know, you move on. That is all I can do.

Q. When it seemed like it was starting to unravel can you pick a pivotal point--

MONICA SELES: I definitely felt when I got the break at 5-All and to lose my serve
again for her to go up 6-5 in the first set against Steffi, that is not going to fly and I
should have -- but she played a great game and came back, from 40-15, after that, that
kind of didn't help me much. Of course the second set, the first break, definitely.

Q. When will you see Steadman and Hawkins, before you leave for the Far East or when
you come back?

MONICA SELES: After Atlantic City.

Q. How fustrating have the last six months been in terms of not being fully fit, not
being able to play as much and as well as you would like?

MONICA SELES: It hasn't been easy. After the Australian Open because there were so many
different views and different things, we have been trying. I definitely never thought this
shoulder would become what it became to be after taking so much time off. But, you know, I
talked a lot -- two other athletes who had a similar problem. It is a very frustrating,
slow process. The only thing I got to be careful is from the future on, what I will do
with my serves and how many serves I am going to hit. I need though change a little bit,
my motion after the shoulder is okay, but I think for me it will be important to stay on a
regular schedule because like last year after the U.S. Open, I didn't play anything until
the Australian and I don't want that to happen this year.

Q. So is the priority after the Fed Cup to get yourself fit one way or the other?

MONICA SELES: I pretty much think so. I think that is really important for me because I
think I will be less injured. I will just feel better and stronger and, you know, I think,
you know, Steffi just has 95 serves or Brenda Schultz and those guys, that is a big
advantage. It is so much more comfort going in to hold -- knowing that you are going to
hold your service games. Instead, for me, I have to fight from the backcourt each time
every single point.

Q. For what you went through, Monica, do you feel a special sense of closeness or
empathy for Steffi for what she is going through in terms of the current turmoil?

MONICA SELES: In what -- what similarities are in in Steffi than mine thing?

Q. They are very dissimilar.

MONICA SELES: Yeah.

Q. But do you feel a special sense of empathy for her knowing what she is going through
right now?

MONICA SELES: How do you mean empathy? What is empathy?

Q. Do you feel sorry for her?

MONICA SELES: That is a tough one to answer. Can't compare the two position that I am
in and that Steffi is in, so.....

Q. Did the happy birthday bother you?

MONICA SELES: No, York I think it was just funny that -- I don't know who was -- It was
really unusual. First time I heard it in a Grand Slam tournament, but, you know, just try
to stay focused after that, but I think the fans definitely speak out more than they used
to before asking questions throwing comments, and --

Q. Have you been proposed to before on the tennis court?

MONICA SELES: I have been two times.
(Audience laughter).

Q. Ever accept any of them?

MONICA SELES: Have to know the person. Have to meet them first if I like them or not -
pretty important.

Q. Have they given you any indication if you have the surgery and your shoulder how
long you will have to be out?

MONICA SELES: I got different views on it. It is a while. So, you know, there are --
different things heal differently. I don't know, I mean, but probably to come back to a
level that I need to play, it will take a while and that is one of the reasons, you know,
why I didn't want to do it for a while.

Q. You talked about taking painkillers for quite a while. Are you talking medication
for pain or something like an anti-inflammatory like Motrin? Could you say what you are
taking?

MONICA SELES: Well, I mean, they are all approved by the WTA and by the Olympic
Committee because we do our drug testing, so it is nothing like serious. Some are just
anti-inflammatory and some before the bigger matches I just take painkillers. They are
simple, just pills, no injection or those forms which I will never do.

Q. Is there a rivalry between the two of you other than just the fact that the seedings
put you in the finals since you play at the top of the list so much?

MONICA SELES: Gosh, one more time -- is there a rivalry between Steffi and me in terms
of what?

Q. An emotional conflict as well as just the fact that you are 1 and 2 in the seedings;
you need to beat her?

MONICA SELES: Definite-- as I said before, the seedings, I think the worst that
happened with the special ranking was to Arantxa, I mean, she really got the worst end of
it. I told that to her and everybody. You know, I mean, Steffi clearly is No. 1. I mean,
everybody can see that. She has won three Grand Slams. I mean, wow, whoever did that when
I did that in '91, '92, I deserved to be, '93, whatever, in '94, Arantxa, 95, '96, Steffi,
so there is -- I think who does well at Grand Slams, those tournaments in my mind at least
who is the No. 1 player. And this year, I think clearly it has been Steffi.

Q. Provided both of you are healthy next year, would you want to play her more than
like once or twice a year?

MONICA SELES: Definitely. I think for women's tennis we need that. We need to have more
Seles/Graf, Graf/Sanchez. Graf/Hingis matches to, you know, to go back, which before
Martina/Chris would play more often and everything, but I really don't know how much the
new Tour, what we are having proposed for next year that is going to happen, though.

Q. Is there a danger with the painkillers that they are strong enough that it masks the
pain during a match and you might actually further tear the rotator cuff without knowing
it until after the match is over?

MONICA SELES: Yeah, but that was the decision that I made really before the French that
I didn't want to miss these Grand Slams this year and it might not have been -- it is hard
to say if it was the best decision or not. And I sometimes when I have time I look back
and I am thinking, gosh, why am I doing this, or it is a great decision and I don't know,
but it is gone and I can't take that back, but have a little bit more to go for it.

Q. Is it just on the serve that it bothers you?

MONICA SELES: Mostly, yeah. Mostly.

Q. Do you plan to play two tournaments in Australia in January?

MONICA SELES: Well, I am hoping that -- I am going to get to Sidney, but it is going to
be tight. I don't know, that is why -- as I said, who -- I don't know. I mean, everybody
knows me, I am going to try if I have -- I am going to try to come back as quickly as I
can. If they think there are other ways to try, I am going to try. I would have to play in
Australia and I would definitely like to start the year off and have a much better year.
This year was up and down. You can't expect all the time for myself so much with
everything that I have been doing. There is a point where I won't have the consistency and
I don't have that right now.

Q. Do you think you could have won more points if you did hit more balls to Steffi's
backhand? Seemed like you hit most to her forehand?

MONICA SELES: I don't know, I still feel that -- probably, yeah, I probably should have
done that more, I think, yeah.

Q. Consistency, is that that you can't concentrate the way you used to or related to
fitness --

MONICA SELES: That is a tough one, but I think it is a lot of things. Obviously I am
not training like I used to do and I think everybody can see that (laughs) I think, you
know, I just hate to always think back to Hamburg, you know, all that stuff. I am here in
'96, September, and I think for me what I told myself just going to have to be consistent
even if I have long breaks, but still keep working hard on other things; just because you
can't play tennis you don't have to do now nothing. There are a lot of other areas that I
can improve upon and that is the one thing that I have learned this year and I wish maybe
I would have done after Australian Open 'til before the French Open.

Q. Psychologically you are eager to do that now?

MONICA SELES: Oh, definitely. Definitely.

Q. Looking back on this year, I mean, after you first came back last year, and you won
the Canadian and then made a great match here, are you disappointed with this year?

MONICA SELES: Only tournament that I am really disappointed was Wimbledon, I have to be
honest there. The French I didn't expect anything because I knew the amounts that I didn't
play and how I went into it would be Russian Roulette. But Wimbledon, definitely, because
I felt I had a good draw and the way that I played few matches there, that I wasn't happy.
That was -- really would be a disappointment to me this year. The Open and everything else
is fine. But Wimbledon will not be a happy memory this year.

Q. What are your views about ladies tennis in Grand Slams being best of five sets,
because it is the Grand Slam and the huge prize money?

MONICA SELES: Well, as I said, everybody knows my views on it. I really don't even
think the men should play out three out of five and most men -- well, see that is my view
on it. I am happy either way -- does not matter to me what we play. But I am very happy
with 2 out of 3 and I think it is just better for everybody not just for women, but more
males too.

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT