XXVI OLYMPIC GAMES
July 29, 1996
Monica Seles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Did you tire badly at the end, Monica?
 
MONICA SELES:   I don't think so, I just had too many chances, I didn't take advantage of them.  Obviously I couldn't hold my stroke the key times, and that was it.  But I didn't feel tired, no. 
 

Q.  Can you describe the degree of disappointment?
 
MONICA SELES:   Quite big.  I think -- because I had so many chances in the first set and the third set, way too many chances. But she played better when it came crunch time than I did. 
 

Q.  Did that surprise you, given her history?
 
MONICA SELES:   Well, a little bit, yeah.  But, as I say, I had many chances, and I didn't serve it out.  And my serve let me down a little bit today when I was hoping it wouldn't.  But otherwise I feel I played a good match. 
 

Q.  Were you having any trouble moving?  There were a couple of balls, especially at the end, that you didn't chase down.
 
MONICA SELES:   No, some I think were almost impossible.  But I didn't feel tired -- or I don't feel tired now.  But it came down to one or two close points, and it went her way today. 
 

Q.  Did your shoulder bother you serving today, Monica?
 
MONICA SELES:   No, it was the same as before.  I think it's just the timing wasn't there.  And that's been the inconsistency that I know.  Some days my serve will be there and some days it won't. 
 

Q.  Do you think the last shot was out?
 
MONICA SELES:   I don't know.  It felt in to me, but that's hard to say.  That's what the judges are there for. 
 

Q.  Monica, it looks like you weren't serving big, hard.  You said your shoulder won't get better without the surgery.  How often now are you thinking you should get this fixed up?  Now half of your game you can't go out all the way.
 
MONICA SELES:   I still think after the U.S. Open and after Fed Cup.  I committed myself to that before the French Open, and I don't want to change it. 
 

Q.  Is it painful or is it just something that's now just not strong?
 
MONICA SELES:   It's the tear of the labrale, so it's torn. It's just there.  For them to make it where it was before, at the Australian Open, they need to reattach it.  That's my understanding. 
 

Q.  When you serve you try to serve big, but is there pain there?
 
MONICA SELES:   Each time you put through a serve, because it's hurting there, yeah. 
 

Q.  Monica, I know that you worked with Bob Kersee, and I know you weren't aware until midway through the day the other day that she had to pull out.  Did you get to speak with her or see her?
 
MONICA SELES:   No, I didn't.  But I got a chance to see Gail compete and win the hundred meters.  But I didn't get a chance to talk to her yet. 
 

Q.  Can you talk about how nice -- I know how many athletes, Lindsay Davenport was saying, all of the world knew what happened to you, and have been coming up to you.  Has it surprised you how much you touched all these people who perform in public places just like you?
 
MONICA SELES:   I think always, yeah.  I'm no different than  they are.  Tennis players in general, because it's a well-known sport.  When they come up in the Athletes Village, wow, why did you do that?  I did the same with Mohammad Ali, I do some of the things they're doing.  But it's really nice to know that other athletes think so highly of you. 
 

Q.   Did it put pressure on your serve to know that she was going to come in on every second ball?
 
MONICA SELES:   Not really, no.  I was trying to put in my first serves more often, and that key game at 5-4 when I held the very tough one before that, I told myself to put your first serve in.  But a lot of times when you want to do that you just keep missing them.  I started well off that game at 5-4, I was up 15-love and I think I made a little bit of first error that I probably shouldn't have at that time.  And it was gone pretty quick after that. 
 

Q.  Has she ever chipped the serve that much on you?
 
MONICA SELES:   Yeah.  Not on clay, but most of the time on every other surface. 
 

Q.  Has it sunken in that you're not going to be around for a medal round?
 
MONICA SELES:   Yeah, it sunk in right after the match.  I was still kind of hoping I'm going to be able to pull it out at some point in the match.  But when she broke me 5-All it was, wow, quite a few chances, how many more do you need to close this match off? But I'll just watch Mary Joe and Lindsay who are unfortunately going to play in the semifinals against each other. 
 

Q.  How do you rate this disappointment when you compare the losses at Paris and Wimbledon?
 
MONICA SELES:   I try not to compare them.  After every loss you're not too happy, but you try to learn and just move on, that's all you can do. 
 

Q.  Are you going to hang around?
 
MONICA SELES:   I haven't decided yet.  I kind of haven't planned it out.  So I'll just play it by ear. 
 

Q.  Picabo Street was here to watch you.  She was hoping you would show up tonight, are you still going to go to the basketball?
 
MONICA SELES:   I wasn't planning to go to basketball before this, because my dad was a triple jumper before, so I think the competition of finals are tonight, and Carlos is in the finals, long jump, so I was planning to go there. 
 

Q.  What is your thoughts taking another shot at it four years from now?
 
MONICA SELES:   First I'll have to qualify.  And if I do qualify, yeah, I'll be there. 
 

Q.  You would like to do it again?
 
MONICA SELES:   Oh, yeah, for me this has been a great experience.  I think for the whole U.S. team.  It's been -- it would have been nice to do well here. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT