XXVI OLYMPIC GAMES
July 27, 1996
Monica Seles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Monica, it looked like you didn't want to leave the court. 

MONICA SELES:   But the fans have been unbelievable, and it definitely pulled me through in the second set, that is for sure, and just all throughout the match.  But when it came to big time for me, at least in the second set, in the middle of it, they helped me tremendously.  Thinking of all that I had. 


Q. Was she tiring you out a little, Monica, making you run and work?

MONICA SELES:   I think it has been just a long day, just the waiting around.  And I walked quite a lot yesterday, doing different things.  And I was a little bit more sluggish today, this morning also.  And I had to run down a lot of balls.  It was a combination of a lot of -- a few things in there.


Q. What time did you get here today?

MONICA SELES:   Oh, I got here about 9:00.


Q. A long wait?

MONICA SELES:   Yeah, a long wait, long time.  And  locker rooms are so crowded when it is raining, so just sitting.  And that is not the best for your match.


Q. Any hesitation about coming today with what had happened last night?

MONICA SELES:   No. You know, it is terrible what happened last night, but the president decided to continue with the games, and we athletes have to do our part.


Q. Do you agree with that decision, Monica?

MONICA SELES:   I am not going to comment because that is not up to me, so he made that decision. 


Q. Do you feel comfortable here?

MONICA SELES:   It feels comfortable here as anywhere else, same for me.


Q. Does the gentleman that accompanies you on the court and stays on the court and walks behind you, is he your full-time guy or is there a different person every day?

MONICA SELES:   No, he is from here, from the Olympics.


Q. But is he the same guy throughout the whole Olympics, is the one man with you or do you have a different --

MONICA SELES:   That is the ideal situation, but it depends if somebody else needs him.  We are trying not let that not happen, but I don't have exclusivity on him.


Q. Has he been with you every match with you here?

MONICA SELES:   He has been here from my first match  on with me.


Q. Did this bother your focus, the event last night?

MONICA SELES:   I think all of us -- I mean, it affected us, there is no question.  We walked those areas where it happened, and Mr. Dinkins woke me with the news like 7 o'clock.  I turned on the TV immediately.  Everybody started beeping me if I am okay and everything, so, of course. 


Q. Monica, you said the other day that after your first round match you didn't want to live a sheltered life, that is why you were in the Village and so forth.  Does what happened last night shake your faith in that pursuit or no?

MONICA SELES:   No.  I am still going to try to go tonight to the track and field and go to other events and go on with my life.  That is pretty much all I can do.  You know, that is what I did after the stabbing, that is what you do all the time, you just have to go on.


Q. Did everybody beeping you and asking you questions and having to do this, does it make it worse and harder to go on?

MONICA SELES:   I think I was mostly concerned with all my friends from there and my brother.  And a few people just beeped because they heard it was in the Olympic Village, and some thought it was actually where we were staying, so a lot of people weren't clear where it was.  And of course it kind of disturbed your morning a little bit because of that.  But then afterwards, when I got here, I just told myself just  focus on the match with the task that you have ahead of you.


Q. It was David Dinkins who called you this morning?

MONICA SELES:   Yes.


Q. He actually woke you up?

MONICA SELES:   Yeah.  He heard the news.  Because I was sleeping, I had no idea.


Q. How did he break it to you?

MONICA SELES:   He just asked me if I am okay.  I said, "what do you mean am I okay?"  That was pretty much like that, because I had no idea.  And then afterwards my mom and dad called me a little while later, and they all said the same.  Then I turned on the TV because it happened, I think, at 1:00, and I went to sleep last night at 11:00, so, pretty early.


Q. Was there a period there in the first couple of hours where you weren't watching it?

MONICA SELES:   I really didn't have too much time because after all the phone calls and everything, it was about  8:30, and I stretched a little bit, and it was time to get into the car, and when you get here, there are just tons of people, you know, pulling you in each direction.  So when you are here -- and I just -- as soon as I walk in, my focus is on my tennis at that point. 


Q. Did you stay in the village last night, Monica, or out here? 

MONICA SELES:   That I am not supposed to -- I am not going to answer that either way because of security concerns, but I am -- as everybody knows, I am going to keep continuing staying in the Village, so....  Figure that one out.  (LAUGHTER)


Q. By saying that --

MONICA SELES:   I am losing it today, I am sorry (LAUGHS).


Q. By saying that, I am assuming that your same roommates, Lindsay and the gang, everybody is still doing whatever they were doing?

MONICA SELES:   I can answer only for myself.  You got to ask them.  I got to do that, so...


Q. Walking in the park yesterday?

MONICA SELES:   In the park?  I didn't walk yesterday, no.


Q. So you weren't in the park?

MONICA SELES:   No. 


Q. Were you up all night?

MONICA SELES:   I went to sleep at 11:00.


Q. I mean, after you got the news, did you stay up and watch?

MONICA SELES:   I got the news in the morning.  It was like 7:15 or something.  I had no idea.


Q. Is he here, Monica? 

MONICA SELES:   No, he is in New York.  He is in New York.


Q. Just looking out for you?

MONICA SELES:   Yes.


Q. Do you think part of the reason the crowd really helped you in the second set was maybe the fans figured you were going through a tough day and wanted to see you do well?

MONICA SELES:   I think so. I think there were so many close points, both of us were fighting.  I was trying to give everything that I had.  Maybe sometimes when you want it too much, you stumble at your own feet.  That happened a few times, not just that one time, I felt.  And the second set I lost the momentum at the beginning, and I think one of the key games was when she had so many breakpoints to go up 3-Love.  And then I had a few chances to hold my serve, so there was a little bit -- unsure then when I held my serve to go up to 4-3, we had that long break, I told myself to stay focused AND that is, I think, when the crowd got really more involved and helped me pull out the match.


Q. What did think of Gaby play today considering she has been out for quite a while?

MONICA SELES:   Played some pretty good tennis.  I think she played better since the last time I played her.  Her served improved, much stronger but served more doublefaults.  It was hard to get the timing because she was going pretty  strong even on her second serve, so I didn't know if they were going to go in or out, and her game -- she was getting back a lot of balls, so I probably should have attacked a little bit more because I lost a few points in there.  But, for me, my main thing was not to make too many unforced errors which I tried not to do.   Only thing that I am not that happy, I didn't get too many free points on my serve and I should have gone more for my first serve.


Q. Are you getting stronger and stronger as this tournament goes on, do you feel?

MONICA SELES:   I don't know.  I obviously haven't had the greatest summer, and probably not playing the greatest tennis of my life, or any good tennis, but I think definitely improving and I feel I am playing better as the days go by and for me, I think it is important to play matches because I feel that I don't have the matchplay, when it goes down to those key matches against the top players and that is when a match like this today, when it is really close and I play well on the key points and key games, it helps me a lot.


Q. At the end of the match you seemed far more excited and happy than some of the other ones.  Was it the fact that you reached the quarterfinals, beating Sabatini, or what --

MONICA SELES:   I think it was all the events today that have been going on and there were a lot of other things that were happening and I was just like, okay, the day is in  some ways over -- I am a person that likes to have a schedule and as soon as something goes in that I kept missing, I was worried that if my friend got in from Sarasota and how it is raining, so a lot of things were going on in my mind today, but she got in and everything, so I was just really glad it was over mostly.  And also when you have a close match like this one it is one or two breaks, you are really glad that you closed it out.  And plus, in the second set, my stomach was a little bit feeling not so good.  I said, just close this out.  I didn't want a third set at all today, so I was lucky to be able to pull it out. 


Q. When you go home will you make a special effort not to watch the news on TV?

MONICA SELES:   Well, tonight I am going to try to get to track and field and usually the nights, we have been coming home like at 11 or midnight and they usually hang out with a couple of other athletes.  In the Village our TV didn't even work until about two days ago, so this is the longest period, starting from Japan, that I have not watched TV, which is good for me so...... 


Q. Did your stomach problem have anything to do with nerves or is it --

MONICA SELES:   I think it is a little bit the dehydration because it was cold and I wasn't sure how much to drink and all of that in there, but it happened to me in  practice two days ago and I had to stop, so just have to keep drinking water and I am probably not doing that enough, so...... 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT