XXVI OLYMPIC GAMES
July 23, 1996
Monica Seles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Can you talk about what that experience was like compared to a Grand Slam.

MONICA SELES:   There was nothing like it.  I mean, like today's crowd, I never played in front of a crowd that was so into the match, really from the beginning.  And they were just so supportive that I have never felt -- experienced anything like that.  It was the same as being part of the opening day ceremonies.


Q. Are you going to stay in the Olympic Village?

MONICA SELES:   Yes.  I think I have been staying there from Thursday on.  On some nights, if I play first match, like at 10 o'clock, then I might move in with my mom and dad those nights.  But otherwise I am staying there.


Q. How is it?

MONICA SELES:   I love it.  I absolutely love it. There is no experience like that.  Seeing all these other athletes who are the best from their own countries.  I got to meet a couple of days ago Mohammad Ali, then I went to water polo. I met all the water polo players.  Then just volleyball. I can't -- that, to me, is part of the experience, otherwise it is just, you know, not part of it.  So there is nothing like it. 


Q. Why is the experience important to you?

MONICA SELES:   Well, life is all about experiences; to me, at least.  Everything else, you know, it is a routine, your day-to-day life.  When you have these two weeks or 17 days, it is something that I think 40 years from now, when I will be a grandmother or whatever, I can appreciate so much more than anything else.  And to me it is my life, I think, even before stabbing.  But after the stabbing, for sure, it is all about more experiences, about meeting people, experiencing life, and not leading it so sheltered.


Q. When and why did you meet Mohammad Ali, and can you describe that experience?

MONICA SELES:   I was eating dinner right before -- with Lindsay right before we went to watch volley ball, USA/Poland.  You see this huge crowd there.  I mean, looking who is there, who is there; there is Mohammad Ali.  That is where I met him, in the cafeteria.  I took a picture.  I met his wife and his son, and, you know, of course we all saw him at the opening day ceremonies.  Just to see him up close was like, wow.


Q. What impact does he have on your life?  I mean, obviously you didn't grow up probably watching him, so...

MONICA SELES:   I watched -- my dad always tells me to watch his tapes because when he boxed, he did unbelievable  footwork.  So I watched quite a few tapes.  Mine is not there (laughs) but he is just -- I think he is such an inspirational person.  Even now when you look at him, he has something that I feel, at least, in my opinion - I can't put it in any words - it was very emotional for me that night.


Q. You said you want more adventure now since after the stabbing.  You might have looked at it in a different way that you wanted less adventure.  Do you know why that is?

MONICA SELES:   It wasn't less adventure.  It was a little bit more of sheltered existence, which, I think, all tennis players have that because when you are on the Tour, I don't think that is reality in life.  Everything is taken care of for you, and in normal life, that is not the case.  And I have started on the tour since I was 15, so my all early teenage years I was in that movie.  Then after the stabbing, I was in a total different movie.  So I think now I seen both of it.  I just want to find the balance where I am going to still be more focused, but still enjoy some things, because if you don't experience this, I think you will feel sorry.  That is why I just wish tennis would have been one week and focus and then have another week off and go to other events.  But that is not the case.


Q. So you have got to stop going to other events now that competition is underway or you will still go?

MONICA SELES:   I will still go on my nights off. 


Q. Which ones are you planning to go see?

MONICA SELES:   I have been seeing water polo couple of times, then I have been volleyball.  And we saw the divers practice, so...


Q. Can you make some comment on your opponent's performance?

MONICA SELES:   We couldn't find her this morning before my match.  There was a long delay.  I wasn't sure if at the end I am going to play her or play another substitute who didn't have clothes,(sic) so... But she definitely -- I don't know, I think I lost my concentration a little bit in the second set and on key points where I missed or she hit a great shot, but it was good to have a match like that for a first set, easy.  Second set was a little bit tighter in the second set.  I like that.


Q. Respond to the crowd reaction?

MONICA SELES:   Even when I was down, it helps you so much as an athlete to know the crowd is behind you so much.  It was like, wow, to get down there saying to yourself come on, just do it, don't get frustrated.


Q. (question asked in another language)?

MONICA SELES:   I met a couple of them.  I met, actually, some from Slovenia, Yugoslavia and Croatia.  I met some basketball players.  Actually, they were playing ping pong machines when I was doing some -- I was playing -- I don't know  the name of this game -- we just said hellos, congratulated some of the basketball players, and they did the same to me, so...


Q. (Question asked in other language)

MONICA SELES:   He is asking the question -- shall I translate it?  Is there any chance of Steffi and myself playing a humanitarian match.  I will answer to in Croatian first, then I will go in English.  (responds in Croatian)  Now English.  It is the first time I have heard about this, and I would need some more details, because, I mean, it is just on top of my head.  So if you have more details, I will be welcome.


Q. What is the big appeal of water polo?

MONICA SELES:   (AUDIENCE LAUGHTER) Watching water polo.


Q. Good looking guys in small swim suits?

MONICA SELES:   Actually, they were so nice to us.  We went there with the opening day ceremonies, and they helped us back because two of us, Sally and I, got a little bit lost from the team, and they protected us.  They were so sweet.  So we watched them against Italy, and we tried to watch them.  They are also in the same building, so that kind of helps.


Q. Are they here today?

MONICA SELES:   No, because they are getting ready.  They pretty much will not be able to come out at all because it is impossible, and they are having to stay very focused.


Q. You got lost during the opening ceremony?

MONICA SELES:   We got separated with -- Sally and I, a little bit, so -- and we don't know what kind of -- how to get back.  We saw this tall guy, he said, okay, we will go there, we are safe because we see the crowd.  And we just went back with them.  And they are in the same building, so we met them before, so we knew them.


Q. What video games do you play?  What are you doing in the village?

MONICA SELES:   Pretty much doing everything.  There is a game where it is -- I don't know, I have never seen this game before that you just throw to each other (indicating back and forth).  I played video games, and I played -- I did bowling for the first time yesterday, and I did billiards -- pool, so...


Q. You don't know which video games?

MONICA SELES:   Video games - I have no idea.  I like those when you just have to keep moving your hands like this (tapping fingers on table).  I can't figure it out.


Q. Can you hold a parallel between the years when you were coming to States and the present time?  I mean, you are the big star, you need a bodyguard, you need -- was that your dream? 

MONICA SELES:   I have no bodyguard, really, in the village or mostly here.  I have this one gentleman who just started today to help me from walking out to the tennis court and being there.  But otherwise, I am walking by myself, and actually a lot of people commented on that.  And I said the village is really secure, and, you know, I feel fine with that.  But I think day-to-day necessary at other tournaments when I am on the tennis court, I do feel for me it is necessary.


Q. Your confidence?

MONICA SELES:   In terms -- my confidence is pretty good.  I can't say that I had the greatest year this year, but there is only really a way to go up.  Hopefully not a way to go down.  But I know what I need to slowly try to improve and do that, and, you know, just take it a day at a time.  That is all I can do.


Q. A lot of players, especially in the men's side, didn't come to the Olympics.  Do you understand it or do you accept it?

MONICA SELES:   I think Pete would have come if he wouldn't have been injured - I do know that.  But the other players, I don't know about.  I know Boris said he doesn't want to be part of it.  I don't know.  I mean, well, I would say maybe in '84 Los Angeles, I would not put tennis in the Olympics at the same level with the other  sports.  But now that everybody is a professional, everybody can make money and be part of -- be competing in the Olympics. I think it is very different.  In terms of media attention, everything, I think other sports are the highlight at the Olympics, because a lot of these athletes will make their living if they do well or not here, which I think is tremendous pressure on the gymnasts and some of the swimmers, which is, to me, very unfair.  And -- but I -- to me, I think, down the road, 20 to 40 years, or even now Olympic gold medal will be so special, or any medal, I think would be --- there is nothing like it.  I mean, it is every four years, and there is just so much history with that.  I don't know why.  I think you saw that some, for certain reason, they don't want to come, and they might not be related to tennis.  But some, for convenience reasons, I think, too.


Q. Is it hard to have a tournament mentality when you are obviously trying to have fun and do everything?

MONICA SELES:   No, it is okay.  Because for me, what is great, I just do admire all these other great athletes - to see how hard they work.  There are so many sports, I don't know for what reason they are not getting attention like tennis.  We are very lucky.  For women, especially.  How many choices do women have to make a living in sports?  Tennis, golf and maybe ice skating after the Kerrigan incident, which I think is sad.  All these people are working five, six hours a day.  If they don't get the Gold at the Olympics, then that is it, they are like a failure.  So that is not the case.  I mean, I think more athletes should be more highlighted in some more sports.


Q. How important it is for you to represent your sponsor, especially, Nike?  Because the sport has changed, it is not only about gold medals, it is a big business.  How important is this part of it to you?

MONICA SELES:   Nike has been, I mean, absolutely the most supportive of me through this whole year out and how they took the chance with me to go with me has been unbelievable.  I don't think any -- Olympics are a business and you can see that America is really one of the few countries that can make money on the Olympics, but you can see that in the village.  You have all the company names and everything, but that is part of the sports business.  But what I think is great about Nike and nobody else is doing that.  They are worrying about other sports to making them bigger and more popular, which nobody else is doing, which I think is great, because we need that. We need not just to focus on in some sports, like gymnastics or bicycling or fencing every four years, you need to focus on it day-to-day and have the tour because these kids work all their lives.  I just don't think that that is fair; especially for women, because men of have more choices.  You have soccer, football, basketball.  Where do women have a choice to make a living in sports?


Q. Is it unusual for you to spend as much time after the match signing autographs as you did today and did anybody say anything interesting to you?

MONICA SELES:   They all say "good luck, go for the gold," and they are all very positive, "great to have you back."  I usually always sign then.  I sign autographs all my career, I mean, I remember in 1992 at the Madison Square Garden after my finals I stayed there at least an hour or even longer to sign.  I think that is part of it.  Maybe one of the reasons because when I was a child, the ping pong tournament was in my hometown and I went up to this guy asked for his autograph.  I was this little, and he just like brushed me off, and not even with a smile.  I went home, and I was really sad.  And when somebody signs something, I think it makes your day; especially if you look up to that person.  I have asked other athletes.  I asked Mohammad Ali. If I would see a swimmer like Janet Evans or the gymnasts, I would ask them also.


Q. What is the difference between you when you are playing for your country as opposed to just playing for yourself?

MONICA SELES:   I think it is a huge difference.  I think the sport is like a night and day difference.  And the  emotions are very different.  It is just bonding with other athletes like even just among us what is so great about the U.S. Team, they were a total team in practices with our own matches, and that to me was the best part.  It is staying in the village.  We are all going out to dinner together and having a great time.  I love that part.  I love this team spirit part.


Q. Were you taken aback by the crowd response today or did it really surprise you that much?

MONICA SELES:   Totally.  I mean, you expected support, but it was so much support just for simple way it was like, wow, this is pretty cool, because and any time when we went to volleyball, like when they had the last few matchpoints I mean, the whole crowd was standing up; we are all standing up, but they didn't win it on the third point, they won it on the fourth point, so they all stood up four times, but that is what is so unbelievable, I think.


Q. You have been a citizen now for two years or so.  What is like when you hear that chant USA?

MONICA SELES:   I lived here since 1986, so I lived here for ten years now, and, you know, I mean, to me, it feels natural.  I mean, I don't know I will never forget where I was born and I hope to go back there to visit and everything, but I  -- maybe I left -- because I left at such an early age from there on, I remember a lot of things and I still have two  friends that I keep in touch with and -- but my life is here. I mean, most of my friends are here.  Everything for me is here and all the -- most of my memories, when I haven't been travelling, are really Sarasota, Florida.


Q. Did you say you got Ali's autograph?

MONICA SELES:   Yes.


Q. Who else?

MONICA SELES:   I got a picture with him.  The only other one that I got was this Australian swimmer, that I don't know his last name and he won the gold.  I do know that.  I saw his last name in the papers yesterday.  But the one thing, you don't see any top athletes in the village.  I haven't met any single one yet.


Q. Why did you choose to stay in the village?

MONICA SELES:   I think that is part of the Olympic spirit to me or to miss the opening day ceremonies does not make sense to me.  Even if you have been to them many times; especially if it is your first one, wow.


Q. What was the best part of the opening ceremony for you?

MONICA SELES:   Best part was when you were all rushing.  They kind of --  we were all late a little bit they were saying, run, run.  Everybody was running into the stadium.  You were walking down.  You had a view of the whole stadium.  That was the most emotion and when we took the 400  meter walk, it was unreal.


Q. What do you think will be the most challenge for you in this Olympics?

MONICA SELES:   Well, I have a really tough draw.  I think, as always, I will look at my next round opponent.  I don't know who that is yet, but I know they finish their match.  Of course, Gaby or Tauziat, whoever wins that match today and Jana, and Arantxa and Conchita.  It is a long way off.  It is just a match at a time.


Q. How do you feel about how you are playing right now?

MONICA SELES:  I feel okay.  I haven't been playing as much as I wanted; been just back and forth travelling, different time zones, so I don't feel as comfortable as I would want to, and hopefully, you know, I will get to play -- putting a little bit more of practice hours by the U.S. Open, but otherwise I feel okay.  Played pretty well in Japan in Nagoya. It is a night and day difference, really tough, whoever gets to a three-set match.


Q. And your injury?

MONICA SELES:   My injury is the same.  It is a torn labrial (phonetic), so that is only going to get back with the surgery and I know that that is just -- you can just take it day at a time.


Q. Surgery, when?

MONICA SELES:   At some point.  I don't know when, but  that is really hard because even after the U.S. Open, I want to play Fed Cup Finals.  If I do that, then because of the time off, I may not be able to play the Australian Open, so it won't be an easy decision to make that is for sure.


Q. Is there a different feel at an event like this when Steffi is not here; do you approach a tournament differently when she is not?

MONICA SELES:   No, because the last two tournaments or three tournaments I have played, I haven't even gotten close to Steffi, so that, to me, is not really in my mind right now. So, no.


Q. When do you think you are going to make that decision about the surgery?

MONICA SELES:   I think probably after the U.S. Open. That is the closest I can.  It won't be an easy one, but I really -- I had so much fun in Nagoya with Federation Cup that I want to be a part of that and I want to bring home -- I think Spain has won it for four years, I think, in a row, so I want to be a part of that team.


Q. How long if you, let's say, you have the operation after Fed Cup, how long do you think you are going to be out for?

MONICA SELES:   Well, I think 8 weeks is the minimum of doing nothing and then in my mind at least another 8 weeks to be ready for a Grand Slam.  So..... 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT