U.S. OPEN
September 8, 1995
Monica Seles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Monica, was it easier than you expected?

MONICA SELES:   I don't think it was an easy match.  I think I had to work very hard for every point.  And the lucky thing, I wasn't making too many unforced errors.  I had to hit a winner pretty much on every shot because Conchita was so far back so I had to hit it very hard.  I had to play some great tennis.


Q.  At what time did you go to bed yesterday night?

MONICA SELES:   About 11:30 I stayed 'til about 10:30 'til the awards; then I left pretty much just back for today.


Q.  Monica, a lot of emotions involved in this tournament, new ones having to face Steffi tomorrow?

MONICA SELES:   I think any time you get to face the best player out there, definitely I am going to be -- psyched for it. You know, you get to play -- you compare your game against the best player out there.  And it's the finals of a Grand Slam event. Whatever happened back in Hamburg, wouldn't have happened, I am still very excited, but being that this is my first Grand Slam after that thing, it is going to be, I mean, so special that it is beyond me to put it in words.


Q.  Don't you feel you are the best player out there?

MONICA SELES:   Oh, no.  I don't know who is the best one.  When I left I was -- I don't know, I am not going to get into that one.  I think Steffi is a great player, and I am a great player, but we both have a very amazing records that puts in the category with very few other athletes, Martina, Chrissy, Billie Jean.


Q.  What would you say that you have improved since you have been back; what do you think you need to work on?

MONICA SELES:   I feel I improved my serve. I have been serving a lot stronger; although, the last two days, I wasn't serving as hard as the beginning of the tournament.  I think, I need to improve my movement which is a lot better and the consistency of my stroke.  One day I am playing better, the next day I am playing bad.  And I just think the fitness out there,  definitely, I need to improve.


Q.  Monica, what is so funny?

MONICA SELES:   Everything.  Everything about life is funny.  I mean, if you can't laugh at life, then why are you living?


Q.  You have been to two pro football games...

MONICA SELES:   I have been to many more.


Q.  You have been on the sideline twice.  Do you feel a personal need to go down on the sideline to be in the public eye?

MONICA SELES:   They invited me to go down there.  First time when I was in Toronto, it was an exhibition game, and the second time, as you all know, it was Nike.  I had got there and there was a presentation; they invited me which I had no idea what the thing is going to be, but I definitely love to watch the game from there, than from way back.  If you can, why not?  So...


Q.  You didn't stay there very long for the Dallas game?

MONICA SELES:   No, I stayed there pretty long, but after the field -- we had to leave, so we had to go -- almost 'til ten minutes before the fourth quarter was over, I was there the whole time.


Q.  You gave us a great description of the fun  shopping at Barneys the other day.  Could you just continue and just tell us what it is like to go to the Giants game, to Showboat and MTV?

MONICA SELES:   It was great.  I mean, for a long time it is fun.  What I try to do is have a balance in life, and I think I practice hard and if I go out, that is part of what I do at the tennis court, after I try to have a fun life.  So I have a balanced life.  I am trying not to be all 100% tennis and not to be 100% fun.  And as long as I can keep them in balance, I think, that is the best way because you can't drink and breathe tennis all your life day-in/day-out.  I have so much fun.  I love football and basketball.  I go to a lot of games, not just these two.  It is just great to see other great athletes compete.


Q.  Are you at all nervous about what feelings might come out tomorrow when you look across that net at Steffi?

MONICA SELES:  Well, I mean, I am sure there will be some feelings and nervousness first, because it is my first, in a long time, Grand Slam final.  Not having that much time to kind of prepare myself for it, and probably because of Hamburg, definitely.  But it is  all going to come down to, hopefully, we will play some great tennis because that is what it is all about.  And we are both, I think, pretty hardworking athletes, and so we both are going to be perfectionists going into it.


Q.  As much fun as you have been having, you know Steffi has been tortured the last couple of weeks.  If you could sit down and talk to her right now, what would you say to her?

MONICA SELES:   Just because your tennis is maybe going well, that doesn't mean that your other life -- you don't have any problems.  Do not think that I don't have no problems either.  But regarding Steffi, I mean, that is very different.  That is taxes, I mean, she knows that; that is hers.  I can't comment because I don't know anything about anybody else's problems, so...


Q.  With all the anticipation for this final, what do you think it means for women's tennis?

MONICA SELES:   I think for women's tennis it is great because you get two of the best players in the finals that are playing now.  And Steffi is No. 1 ranked and I am kind of a co-ranked.  I won't say whatever I am, and I think it is going to be probably one of the best matches of this year.  I hope so, and  any time you get top two players playing, it is great. Same thing in the men's.  I think it is great for women's tennis.


Q.  Do you think it is a nice feeling for you to see that all of the ones that criticized you co-No. 1 decision now are proved wrong?

MONICA SELES:   Well, my feeling of that was I never asked for it and I will go back to that one and I think whoever is the better one time will tell.  I am fine with that, but I think now maybe some players are feeling much more comfortable than realizing, okay, Monica does deserve it and really she could have done it without it.  Few of them came up to me and said that which was really nice.  I understood their concerns also.


Q.  What do you remember about the last time you played Steffi?

MONICA SELES:   Oh, last time I played Steffi was at the Australian Open in 1993 and we had a very tough three-set match.  It was one of the best matches that I played.  I remember it was very hot down, of course, in Australia, it is always hot.  It was just a great very close match, that was the last one.


Q.  Are you a different Monica from two years ago different personally; not tennis? 

MONICA SELES:   I don't think some.  You stay who you are, but whatever you change -- the experience did change me in some parts of my life and I had to deal with emotions that I really didn't know kind of deep down that you have all those thoughts and feelings, but I mean, I have been always very close to my family, and I think they gave me really good strong background and that is all that matters, really.  So I don't think so.


Q.  Do you consider the final in Paris '92 as the toughest one?

MONICA SELES:   Oh, against Steffi? Definitely.  And the longest.  The three-set -- the third set was quite unreal.  I kept thinking "I am losing it here, oh, I am winning here;" kept going and going and going.  It was an exhausting match.  I remember that, and I had a very long one before Gaby, I think, she was up 4-2 in the third set, the day before that, and playing against Steffi it was, I think one of the longest matches I have played.


Q.  Did you pass each other in the lockerroom when you ...

MONICA SELES:   I did speak to Steffi.  I did see her practicing.  I did speak to her in Toronto and everything, but on the off days, Steffi really doesn't  come in and I don't come in.  So the last four days I did not see her, but I did see her and did we did speak to each other.  No reason why not to.


Q.  Monica, happens to you tomorrow as the competitive tennis player, I mean, does that competitive urge go up and are there some questions that maybe you want to answer about your game tomorrow that we don't --

MONICA SELES:   No, I think it would be very unfair, myself, if I would say, oh, it is going to depend on one match what you are playing or not.  I think it is an accumlulation of the whole two weeks.  But I do think fitnesswise I need to improve because I am already feeling it.  I felt it two days ago; not -- I am not going to judge it tomorrow.  I am going to go out there and really try to just enjoy and feel the moment, which maybe the two Grand Slams that I played here I did not because I was so worried about the match which I will be tomorrow also and just going out and do the best that I can.  I am sure Steffi will try the same thing.


Q.  Chris and Martina used to go through periods where they didn't really like each other so much, then they did.  Do you feel yourself going through those kind  of periods with Steffi, really, or not?

MONICA SELES:   I don't think.  No, from my point, I don't think from Steffi's point, but I can't speak for her; you would have to ask her.  But I don't think either of us -- has ever been a point where we didn't speak to each other or anything like that.  There is never a thing like that. I congratulate Steffi when she did well.  She did the same thing.  We kept a very normal relationship as much as you can when you are that close to competeing against each other and I think the two things that I had with Steffi in common, we both are perfectionists. We both like want the best out of ourselves when we step on the tennis court and we both work very hard and as soon as our match is over, we both leave.  We don't stay around, so that --


Q.  Can two players ever be friends?

MONICA SELES:   I do think -- wow, oh.  I tried it with other players who were also at the top, and for a while it worked.  After a while, it is very hard, but I am sure to a certain degree you could.  I could never be best friends.  I think it would be too hard.  I think it would be unfair.  I do not think in any sport there has ever been a thing like that. Unfair to expect that.  But we d respect tremendously each other. Steffi is a very nice person, so, I mean, and I think -- I --


Q.  You said today that this was not an easy match.  You said that before.  The fact is in Toronto and here, through two tournaments you basically just had blown everybody away.  And I just wonder if you are surprised, in some way, at the success that you have had and so soon.

MONICA SELES:   Oh, definitely.  Toronto was a whole huge surprise for me just from the first day and everything going on and then here also, I feel I had a very tough draw.  I beat all the top players Huber; then Jana; No. 5; Conchita No. 4; I don't know, and all of them, so I knew when I saw the draw after the round of the of 16, I knew I had to play some great tennis and rise up to the occasion; that is what I tried to do.  But I am very surprised.  I mean, no question.  There maybe -- that is what is so great about it that I kind of surpassed what I expected of myself.  And it is great.


Q.  Why is Jimmy Arias not training you this week?

MONICA SELES:   Jimmy had to leave for personal business, but pretty much I work with Jimmy  three days during the open and four times in Sarasota in my entire lifetime so I couldn't say that he trained with me.


Q.  He never expected to stay here two weeks?

MONICA SELES:   No, he wasn't planning to.


Q.  On the court, Monica, you are known for your intensity killer insinct and so forth, but off the court you are laughing and giggling all the time.  Can you talk about the juxtaposition.

MONICA SELES:   On court -- when I step on court I try to be so focused because I think, for me, to play the best tennis that I can, I have to be, and I tried not to have too many distractions, but I think as soon as I step off the court, I almost -- like I am a little bit of a different person.  I am much more looser, and much more outgoing which on the court I am just so focused on the ball and my opponents's racket, that I try not to notice too many other things.  But as soon as I am off the court, I mean, you could ask any of my friends, I am just as anybody else.  No different.  It is just that you practice hard and you have a little luck and I don't know.  What else.


Q.  Do you feel fitter everyday?

MONICA SELES:   I felt very tired after the  Novotna match.  I felt a little bit tired out there moving.  I think you can feel that one or two points I was moving slowly, but I know after tomorrow's match I am going to have some time off for my knee and to rest, so I am going to give everything that I have in my body tomorrow.


Q.  Does this mean you won't go out tonight?

MONICA SELES:   Oh, no way.  I don't go out ever on match night.  If I do go out it is to dinner; I come back by 10; same thing I did yesterday because I am here to play tennis; that is why I am here, so...


Q.  How much does it hurt for you right now?

MONICA SELES:   It is sore, but it has been sore for about really few weeks before the Martina exhibition I think it got much worse after Anke's match because I was moving so much sideways that I felt that I better -- I was worried a little bit, I am going to make more damage to it or not, but I guess the physical therapist that has worked with me, said that, no, it is okay anyway, I mean, if you made it this far it is fine.  But the brace helps tremendously, because I can put my kneecap over to the inside and there is much less pressure on the knee.  So...:


Q.  Have you noticed any effects of the lack of  matchplay for 28 months?

MONICA SELES:   No, that has been what's been so surprising.  I really felt I played pretty well on key points.  Those are one of the things I was very nervous about when I first played my first tournament in Toronto and everything how I would react to the pressure points and I did pretty well up to this point.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT