U.S. OPEN
September 6, 1995
Monica Seles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Ever since you came back, people have been asking you: "Are you looking forward to having a tough match?  How is it going to be when you have a tough match?"  Looks like you had a tough match today.

MONICA SELES:   Well, going into the match today I had -- knew I had a very tough match because I played some very close matches against Jana, and I felt that I started off pretty well in the first game, but I think I was down 40-15.  I was very surprised, that I won that game.  But it was definitely a tough match even in the second set, but I just won more of the key possibilities.  I was serving a lot better because in the first set I was serving so many doublefaults and missing first serves, at very key points.


Q.  On those two-set points you played --

MONICA SELES:   Well, that one return that I hit on, I think, 40-15, I don't know, but I mean I just-- I was so mad at myself.  I just -- wow, hit it.  It just went in.  After that, I was -- I don't know how much I won the next few points, but that was --


Q.  A volleyed for heaven's sake?

MONICA SELES:   Oh, that is true.  Forehand volley, crosscourt.


Q.  Geez, Monica.

MONICA SELES:   Very nice.  Very good point, that one also, yes.  Yes.  Yes.  Forgot that one.


Q.  Would you say, you know, Jana, everybody is going to read "Jana had two-set points."  They are going to say she gargle-ova-ed (sic).  But you really played good points?

MONICA SELES:   Yeah, I think I'd won those two points.  It is not that Jana choked.  As I remember that point, when I volleyed that was a very long point.  She gave back a very hard shot, and then I just hit this great volley, but she didn't choke.  I never felt that.  Even in the tiebreaker, because she was playing them with the forehand.


Q.  What was the difference in the second set?

MONICA SELES:  I felt the second set I was serving a lot better.  That was the key for me to hold the serve and then have the pressure on her to hold serve, and in the first set, I was definitely not doing that at all.  And I just got more and more  comfortable.  I was going for my shots.  Through the first set I was so tight, and one or two points in the first set, I mean, there were so many deuce games in there, and...  But as I said, I served quite a few doublefaults at very key points in the first one.


Q.  Jana said of you that you are never really in danger of getting tired out there because you are always dictating the points and forcing other people to get tired.  Will you agree with that?

MONICA SELES:   I don't know.  Today -- well, I think I ran her around a lot today.  I mean, I had to give back some really goods shots and that one shot I still can't believe, one-hand backhand.  I lost the whole game after that because I was thinking of that shot.  But it was quite amazing, God, but I don't think so.  I think Jana was dictating quite a few points with her forehand today, but I just tried to stay in my game and to the best of my ability and not think of getting tired there or not.  I don't want that to cross my mind because, you know, as an athlete you try not to get tired.


Q.  Couple pretty good streaks after missed points.  Was that it or were you still tight at that  point?

MONICA SELES:   I think some -- I was just so tight because -- and the weirdest for me was bugging me that I served well up to this match and this match maybe went one or two times in the whole match for a strong first serve.  Every one of my serves, even my first ones were like 70, 80 and I was still missing them.  And against Jana, who is attacking player, you can't do that, and she took control of that.  I felt I was making a lot of unforced errors on her returns and in other words, put the pressure on her to get into point.  And maybe miss a ball instead of just missed her return without even letting her play it. That is why I was a little bit frustrated.


Q.  A lot of people have criticized the women's game said that you are just so far superior to the rest of the field and that if a guy took off 2 1/2 years, there is no way they can come back?

MONICA SELES:   I think Agassi or Sampras could do the same.  I hope they will not do that, but I am pretty sure they could.


Q.  You don't feel that it is just that there are really two tiers in women's tennis; there is you and Steffi and everyone else? 

MONICA SELES:   I think Steffi and I are definitely on average -- I don't know about me, but Steffi, for sure, she has proven that over the years above a little bit.  I don't know -- physically, I think, mentally and gamewise, and she is in a league you put Chris, Martina and those guys in.  And -- but I don't know, I think everyone is an individual.  I don't know, when I played Toronto, I didn't know that this is how it would happen.  But I mean, I don't know.


Q.  When Jana was asked why you have been able to play as well as you have, she said, "Yeah, she is a great champion," but she said that she thought the main reason was because you don't play quite the all-around game like -- that Steffi plays or that she plays; that you don't -- that you play mostly from the baseline; that it is somehow easier; what do you think of that?

MONICA SELES:   I think Steffi is pretty much all around the baseline also.  Steffi and I haven't been to the net too often in our lifetimes up to now.  I almost think Jana mixes it up, but she didn't come that often to the net today, really.


Q.  I mean, there is so much criticism, sort of a mild criticism from her of saying that well, that it is not that hard for you to be playing so well because you  are mostly playing from the baseline.  I mean, what do you think of that?

MONICA SELES:   That is her view.  I mean, I don't know.  I just play my game.  I think she plays her game.  So, but she didn't come in too often today; I was very surprised.


Q.  Jana did say about the two-set points that you saved that most other players would have just tried to put the ball in play.  She called it amazing.  Where do you get that kind of feeling to go for it?

MONICA SELES:   I had -- the two shots at that point were amazing, but every shot up to that point was terrible.  So at that point, I thought I had enough of this or if you are out there at least play, I mean, you shouldn't be so tight and you shouldn't be -- because you see it is not getting you anywhere and I just said -- I didn't even think.  I just swung at the ball; that was my -- I was so frustrated.  I finally got back from 4-2 and I served to 5-4 and then I pretty much didn't even put two balls in play to maybe try to win the game -- the set 6-4, whatever.  And it is 5-ALl and I am serving the worst game that I play probably in this tournament in a match.  And against a player like Jana, you can't do that.  You can't let that happen.  So at that point, I  was really mad at myself.  I just swung at it.


Q.  Were there moments during that first set when you started to think maybe it is not going to get better today; maybe today is the day when it won't work out?

MONICA SELES:   That was my feeling quite honestly 'til really almost when I won the first set because I felt whatever I would -- whenever I would serve, as I said before, I was serving 80 miles an hour, but they're still going out.  I was serving so many bad second serves, but I just said if you just try to stay in there, keep point by point and that was my motor in the tiebreaker.


Q.  A lot of times you were smiling out there at some shots; then turning to your box, players' box.  I don't know if it was your father or someone else in there, you were either trying to tell them it was okay or yourself it was okay...

MONICA SELES:   I was smiling to myself saying, hey, it is fun because you can't get much tighter than you are, so just start smiling because and you can't I mean, -- the amount that I was missing, you couldn't do more, really, especially on my serve and I just said, you know, just try to stay loose and maybe that will help change the momentum a little bit. 


Q.  You invited that little girl from Hungary into your box?

MONICA SELES:   Yes.


Q.  How did that happen?

MONICA SELES:   We just invited her this morning, Tony (ph) thought it would be nice and asked me if that was okay to invite her.  I said definitely. I saw her in the lockerroom before my match.  She is just a really sweet girl.  She is really nice.


Q.  How is your fitness today?

MONICA SELES:   I think it was fine out there.  I felt very fine.  Only thing bothered me was my foot was feeling a little bit hot, but otherwise I felt comfortable running around and I felt pretty good about getting back a few shots, which I was very happy.


Q.  The fact that the first set took 59 minutes, were you concerned at all about the possibility of a three-set match and a real drain on your fitness?

MONICA SELES:   I think what I try to do - which I didn't succeed - was trying to break Jana in the first game just to try to get ahead, but then after I broke her I felt that if I can just start playing my game and I started not making so many unforced errors in the second set, and I just told myself try to go for it now.  You don't tighten up because Jana is going to  go for it now because she lost the first set, so you have to go for your shots, and I started -- but the key was, I think, my serve because I won my service games so much easier than in the first set and the first set I was losing most of them.


Q.  Brenda Schultz, I think, is 5-Love now?

MONICA SELES:   Against Brenda, I am pretty sure I had the closest matches -- more closer matches than against Steffi.  It has always been three sets, 7-6, something like that, in the third set.  Everybody knows Brenda has the strongest serve on the women's Tour, and she has improved a lot from the backcourt and she, in the volleys, she is much more consistent, so if I play Brenda, I am going to have to return very well, and if it is Conchita, it will be a little bit of a different style of play.  Conchita will be a lot of, I think, longer rallies from the backcourt, and although Conchita is playing very well also.


Q.  Do you feel in any way relieved that your ranking is now like justified?   I mean, you were in the semifinals and --

MONICA SELES:   Well, see , my theory on that was when they came to me is that if I deserve to be whatever ranked, I will be in time.  If I do not, then this is all, you know, bologne and that was my thing.  That is why I said that I will play either way.  Anyway, this is again just my theory either you play Steffi or Gaby in the first rounds in the finals at 1:00 p.m. or seven p.m. and the better one will win that day.  Really does not make a difference to me.  And the ranking thing, those things do not enter my mind at all and they will not because of all the things that happened because of it, and to me that does not matter at all.


Q.  Did you request to play at 11 o'clock this morning?

MONICA SELES:   I requested the first match pretty much because I felt that for my knee to try to recover for the next day -- not the next day, but after that, would be the most time I needed.  I felt that a few players always play the first match and I have not played the first match through a lot of this tournament, so I requested 11:00 A.M. start.


Q.  Have you ever watched the Monica Fix (sic) on TV?

MONICA SELES:   Monica Fix?


Q.  They are doing 30 seconds of you everyday like...

MONICA SELES:   Really?  Oh what channel? Okay.  Okay, you have to tell me what channel it is. 


Q.  Monica, are you -- does Novotna have a flaw in her game or some sort of weakness that she hasn't been able to make, you know, that breakthrough in a major, win a Slam?

MONICA SELES:   I don't know.  I mean, Jana has beaten all the top players.  Obviously, I think one of the closest she ever got to a Grand Slam was Wimbledon, I mean, that you -- I think that is a very tough loss, but I put Jana in the category, she is a cool cat.  Like she does this, and from the background and I don't know, sometimes maybe she needs a little bit more of the fire; just to -- if you are up in a match 4-Love so often, but that is Jana's style and she will be very successful.  She is No. 4 or 5 in the world, so it is working for her, but she is always a tough player.  Nobody really likes to play Jana because she is one of the very few players right now on Tour that can play some great serve and volley play, but also can do very well from the backcourt.


Q.  Monica, is your arm a little bit tender?

MONICA SELES:   No, I just got cramped very badly.  I just lifted this girl up, and my main first thought was just to put her down safely, but after that what was happening to my left arm, as I said, I have this thing that we can't figure out where it is from.  So I was very cramped.


Q.  Has your personality changed in the last two and a half years because of what happened?

MONICA SELES:   I think I have a little bit of a different outlook on life, although, I do believe that after the Australian Open in 1993 I started to have that slowly step by step.  But I do think -- I put tennis a little bit more into perspective, but, for me, tennis was never -- I mean, like even my father, like we were able to separate, after we finished practicing to have a normal father/daughter relationship, so I have been really good with that and my parents have helped and a few close friends, but I think you have to have fun for me just to play here and for two years not playing and it is just great.  I mean, it is great.


Q.  What are you going to do tonight for fun?

MONICA SELES:   Probably going to see a play, because I seen one play already, Showboat, so we are trying to go see hopefully I won't -- I know Matthew Broderick is in it.


Q.  How To Succeed In Business.

MONICA SELES:   Okay.


Q.  Did you know who that actress was that --

MONICA SELES:   I think she played in a movie, but-- 


Q.  Circle Of Friends.

MONICA SELES:   Circle Of Friends, yeah, they told me she played opposite Chris O'Donnell.  She is very sweet.


Q.  Not only been playing the way you used to, but also your attitude has been so upbeat you have related so well to the crowds.  Do you kind of feel like you have got your own life back; like things are as they were before?

MONICA SELES:   For me, I don't think they will be because after that happened I think it changed my life and my thoughts to this day I worry about that and probably will.  But as I said, I put it in a box and if I need to open it I will open it, but I hope I WON'T need to, but right now I am trying to take it day by day and make the most of it everyday and do what I would like to do that day.  I am very lucky that I am able to do that.  I am just very thankful FOR that.


Q.  How long have you had this thing you were talking about with your arm and does it affect you at all?

MONICA SELES:   Started about five days ago and the tissue just separated, so it is not like a cut or anything.  It is a very deep one.  I don't know how it happened.  I just saw it one day.  I was practicing  and I stopped because I could not feel anything in my arm.  And it just started hurting, and that is how it startED.  They just had it cleaned out and everything, but it is weird.  I never had this before.


Q.  Monica, you signed a poster for Cal Ripken. What do you think -- have you followed what is happening with him?

MONICA SELES:   Yes, I mean, I follow quite a lot when I went to with a friend of mine from Nike, but that is pretty amazing.  It was really weird because somebody showed me a picture of him, and it is weird like we had this little lady in the car and a friend of mine made a remark -- I said, wow, what beautiful eyes.  He said, well, only a woman would think about that, not about his record, really.  But that is quite an amazing feat, though that is pretty amazing.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT