U.S. OPEN
September 4, 1995
Monica Seles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. The second set seemed tougher than the first. What was the difference?

MONICA SELES: I think in the second set when I broke her, Anke, to go up 1-Love then I
had -- I just did a very weird service game. My mind wandered off. I still had a lot of
chances to hold on and I saved so many breakpoints, but I still let that one go. Then the
same thing, played 1-All, I had Love-30, so many breakpoints and lost that game. And I
felt I let the momentum slip away from me a little bit. That made the second set much
harder than if I had won that second game.

Q. Would these two matches with Anke have been the toughest so far in these two weeks
at this U.S. Open --

MONICA SELES: Oh, definitely.

Q. U.S. Open and Toronto?

MONICA SELES: I think Toronto -- I think-- I definitely the hardest against Anke. I
would think so, yeah. Pretty sure. I played pretty well against Gaby and Amanda. I was
attacking more than against Anke, but Anke is a player that attacks so much too. It is
very hard to always keep attacking, so I would think so, yeah.

Q. If you had to play a third set, how do you think you would have done physically out
there?

MONICA SELES: Physically, I have been fine. The heat is not bugging me. At least today
it wasn't. Didn't feel it was that hot out there. I was just a little bit frustrated that
I had such a great momentum going; started pushing the ball and my mind wandered off. It
could have been a very tight match which could have been holding my serve there and trying
to close it off.

Q. The heat is nothing like at home?

MONICA SELES: No, it is nothing and the humidity, wow, I didn't practice much at home,
but still, it is nothing.

Q. First time you ever played more than an hour, since you have come back. Feel fine at
the end?

MONICA SELES: It felt fine. Wasn't tired, didn't even cross my mind, not at all. Felt
great out there. I think I was more preoccupied with the thought of that second game. 

Q. Monica, are you surprised -- I mean, you are just kind of breezing through like you
never left and you are not even tired, you don't even look sweaty. Are you -- you are
surprising a lot people, I think in the stands, thinking one of these days she is going to
have a tough match. Do you feel surprised at all; how easy it has been.

MONICA SELES: I think today's match was a tougher one. I had to work hard to win every
point in this tournament. I think they are going to get tougher and tougher. Definitely,
between Toronto, the week that I had and the amount of practice that I really got before
all this return started, very surprised. But this time, this Grand Slam, for me, is just
happy to be playing in it, is great to be out there in the stadium and running around and
just having a fun time, which I never really had a chance to maybe when I was 15 years
old. But after that, when I started playing, it was always, you know, different type of an
attitude going on court. Now it is attitude of having fun, that is the priority.

Q. How many different colors are on your fingernails? 

MONICA SELES: This one is five different colors, but somebody just gave it to me at the
hotel, left from our company, all these nail-color samples. I didn't know what to do last
night so I just colored them.

Q. Is that a U.S. Open record for you, that many colors?

MONICA SELES: Probably. I usually never wear nail polish, but there is no no other way
for me to try, because I don't wear nail polish, didn't bring nail polish remover, so I
never had a chance to take them off yet.

Q. What are the colors, do you know?

MONICA SELES: This one is, I think, red and this one is. . .

Q. Can you hold them up?

MONICA SELES: Oh, of course, sure. One is silver, so it is kind of -- it was really
nice of him to do that.

Q. The other hand?

MONICA SELES: The other hand is zero because I don't know how to paint with my right
one.

Q. Your thoughts about playing Jana?

MONICA SELES: Against Jana, I have some very tough matches. She will be, I am sure, she
is going to come in serve and volley a lot. Her serve is very strong. So she had some
great results, I think, here in the past, and always played her a very close match. I am
just going to go try do the best I can; hopefully have a great time.

Q. You have a reputation for being very focused and very tough on important points. I
think we saw some of that today. Jana probably of all the players because of her previous
matches probably has a reputation that is just the opposite of that. Can you talk about
that?

MONICA SELES: Jana against me has played pretty well on big points. I know when she
played Steffi that she had -- she was up I guess 4-1 or 4-Love and she lost it so she is
known for that. But then again, Gaby did it a few times. I don't think you know -- I don't
know. I am not going to let that enter my mind. I am going to take it point by point, and
then try to play my game and let her do her own thing.

Q. You definitely must have had some months of tough practice to be in that shape now.
Can you describe the practice a little bit that was going on some months ago; against whom
or with whom?

MONICA SELES: I pretty much hit with my father the whole time. I mean, believe it or
not. I am hitting with him this week also. So well, I mean, when I decided really that I
am going to come back at that meeting when I had with Mr. McCormack, I slowly started
getting back really playing again, more regularly. It was very up and down emotionally.
And then I played for a few weeks, very hard and then my knee started and then after that,
I really never had -- compared to the practices that I had before, I don't call these
practices at all. I mean, there are no constructivness to them. Still, to this date, I
still have a hard time some days to go out there and practice and do the things, but I
told myself just keep it a day at a time; that is what I am going to do, but practicewise,
it is, I think, after the -- after my knee is going to be better, I am going to have to go
back to the same thing that I did before, because maybe I am getting by a little bit
because I am really very excited to be playing, but I think later on the consistency will
not be there if I don't play day-in/day-out.

Q. Did you have an interest in cartooning like your father?

MONICA SELES: No, I am terrible. Very bad. I have no talent at all at that part, no. 

Q. Are you surprised, Monica, that in the two plus years that you were missing that
women's tennis -- that there really hasn't been that much evolution in terms of the game.
You were able to come back and there are no other super players out there yet anyway. Is
that a little surprising?

MONICA SELES: I think when I left the game I was playing pretty well. So I was already
-- I mean, not to -- I didn't lose too many matches when I left, so I was playing in a
very few selective group that maybe Steffi, Martina and Chrissy were beforehand. So
Capriati, once or twice, but averageswise I think pretty much it was Steffi and myself
later on and then Martina. I just pretty much told myself, when I decided to come back;
try to do the best I can and play like you did before, because it worked for you, so there
is no reason for you to change now. And that was my philosophy.

Q. Monica, Jana is going to come in a bunch. Does that change the way you will approach
your game; do you like having somebody at the net; does that give you a target to aim at
or do you prefer somebody who is going to stay back?

MONICA SELES: I look at it -- I like to play both. Really does not matter. I mean,
because that is a fact the way she plays, so I have to say, I like the way she plays. And
the only serve and volley player that I played was Martina in Atlantic City, and so -- and
Jana and Martina play similar games. And just try to remember when Jana used to play
against me -- I haven't played her in a long, long time, so it is going to take me awhile
to probably remember, but as long as I go out there and do the best that I can, I am very
happy at this U.S. Open.

Q. You mentioned that you saw some of Andre's game on tape. Of course, he is a pretty
good player, but just for the fun of it, if you were his coach and is there anything you
can say that he might improve his game or matchplay from your perspective?

MONICA SELES: To me, what has been pretty amazing to me because I watched Andre when he
was young at the academy and through the years the focus that he has, in his eyes, I mean,
I think it was the third round at the U.S. Open last year, I told my dad just going to win
it because he just felt it in his eyes that he is so focused and wanted to do so with the
-- I really felt that his serve is maybe the only thing that -- but I think he has
improved that also, gotten a lot stronger, so maybe come in more, but I think he is good
from the back; that I really think he is playing almost -- almost -- you can never play
perfect, but something very close to it.

Q. Do you see that look in his eye this year?

MONICA SELES: Oh, yeah, I see that focus. You see that he is all out there to win.

Q. You said that when you came back you told yourself to play as you did before. Do you
feel now that you are playing as you did before and how does a match like today where you
survive a tough second set give you confidence that you are back?

MONICA SELES: Well, going into today's match, I mean, playing in the Canadian Open,
Anke, I knew I was going to have a tough match. I am going to have to play some great
tennis, but pretty much I don't think the level of my game is the same as it was before.
That is my view, gamewise because I was much more attacking and much more steady. The one
thing that I do have now that at that point maybe I didn't have, was my first serve. But I
just knew today I had to play some good points and run around a lot and that is what I
tried to do. So... That first set when you said your concentration went off a little bit
when you got broke and I mean, in the second set, I am sorry-- and then when you came
back, did that make you more confident that you were -- did you know how you would respond
in a situation like that? It was important games and you were -- how did you manager to
get the focus back. The one thing that -- if I would like criticize myself today, which I
am not going to do at this tournament, but if I would, the only thing that -- the second
game I was thinking way too much about it. It was bugging me so much that I felt I had the
control of the match, and suddenly I let Anke back and anything could have happened. And
as a tennis player, you can't let that happen. As soon as you have the lead, you just have
to keep going and I started being very hesitent and I had so many chances to break and I
saved a lot of breakpoints, but I think I was up 3-2; I was down Love-30 and then when I
won that very hard game, I said now just go for it, Monica, that is what I tried to do.
Which I didn't do really too well, but on the key points, I did it better.

Q. Monica, you talked about the game being fun. How much of the enjoyment is predicated
on winning? 

MONICA SELES: Well, it is really -- for me, like when I go into the lockerroom a few
times even the professional women or the juniors when they lose, they come in and they are
crying. Like today, right before I went on, I saw the girl that was crying, and I thought
about it a little bit because the time that I had off I was maybe thinking before I was
okay, she is crying, wow, I used to cry also when I lost matches. But you shouldn't really
cry over losing a tennis match. Tennis is a sport. You start playing tennis because it is
fun, but not to be crying, or being sad and what I try -- I try to find the balance that
win or lose, tennis is something that I Love to do, but it is not going to affect my life
or my personality - if I had a good day at the office, kind of, or a bad day at the
office. That is kind of my theory on it.

Q. You would -- I wonder if you are also enjoying more the extra little stuff. I saw
you meet with Mayor Dinkins.

MONICA SELES: Mr. Dinkins.

Q. Is that happening more than normal like the last time you were here?

MONICA SELES: No, Mr. Dinkins, I mean, through like in '92 when I was playing the
finals against Sanchez, and I think against Martina also, he was my biggest supporter. He
was telling me during the match, "go Monica. Hit to her forehand" He has been
really very supportive throughout the stabbing. He stayed in tremendous touch. He is just
a really nice person. I mean, so -- and we played tennis a few times in the past before,
so -- and obviously, I was just very glad to see him because after the surgery we were
planning to play at the Arthur Ashe Day and then I saw he came out Monday night and he has
been at every one of my matches and he was in great health, so it is really nice when you
hear him saying "go for it, Monica." I say, wow, I guess I better go for it now.

Q. Your opinion about crying losers, has it been developed last two years when you were
not able to play?

MONICA SELES: I am sorry.

Q. You said people shouldn't cry after having lost a match....

MONICA SELES: I just think, you know, it was just so hard to go into lockerroom seeing
somebody so upset that is really crying. I mean, she was crying because she lost a tennis
match. I mean, you know, if you lose a mom or a dad or a dear friend, it is different, but
I think tennis is a game. And I think my outlook on it -- at least this is just mine, that
I think you would, you know, you are 20 -- you are doing something that you love to do. I
started playing tennis because I loved; it, not for nothing before, you are making amazing
amounts of money and then -- but it is still -- it is a sport. It should never go beyond
that. Your habit should never depend on tennis; that is what I try -- that is, for me,
what was really hard when you see a 15 year old or seeing one of the top players after she
lost a match crying. And I used to do that also in the past, but it is just so hurtful
because I am thinking "why should this person be so sad." At home I have never
ever played a set against anybody and I hate 'til this date to do that.

Q. Does that carry over as to how you play after having seen that person cry?

MONICA SELES: I saw actually before I came on-court I talked to this one girl that she
was crying because -- she was, actually, from Hungary, she just lost her match. I told
her, you know, I mean, life is not over that you lost one match. I mean, I told her I lost
matches and I cried, but, you know, you lost, you forget it. You learn from your loss and
go home now and try to work harder and do better. But it is only a tennis match. It
shouldn't affect your life or your outlook on life or your happiness. I know it is easier
said than done because when you are in a match and you felt you had chances, it is hard.

Q. Who was the player, Monica?

MONICA SELES: I don't know her name. She was from Hungary. Two lady players from
Hungary.

Q. Have you ever had a collapse when you were on your way up?

MONICA SELES: I had a collapse at Dallas in 1989 against Bunge. I was playing a night
match. I was up 5-1. I lost the first set 7-5, but luckily I won 6-2, 6-2 after that, or
something, but that was the only time up 5-1; probably my biggest comeback I have done was
Steffi, French 1990, when I was down 6-1 in the tiebreaker or 6-2.

Q. At your ripe old age do you see yourself as a mentor now because of the adversity
you have been through? You just gave an example earlier of the advice you are giving --

MONICA SELES: I just hope that -- tennis is a game, that is what it should stay. For
me, after Hamburg, it became a lot more and now, hopefully it many never become more than
that ever in my lifetime or to anybody in any sport. I just think when you have a little
girl who is 15 or even younger and they are crying over something that is -- I mean,
tomorrow she won't -- one week she won't even know, but so -- I still -- I think I am
still very young for that. I think more people should look up to Chris or Martina. They
are more of examples right now.

Q. Have you ever felt that you should have come back sooner?

MONICA SELES: If I could have, I would have come back, but I just couldn't. I was not
ready -- see for me -- for me, the emotional stuff is very real, and I just wasn't ready.
It is that simple. I had to feel inside that I am ready and that I can do this, because I
do not want to step on a court knowing that am I ready or not. I didn't want to have those
doubts in my mind. There is still some days that are very hard. I am still fighting. I am
sure it is going to be until -- for a while, until it doesn't become such a routine, if it
ever will become a routine, I don't know that.

Q. Are you enjoying it more now than you did when you were --

MONICA SELES: I started really enjoying it after the Australian Open in '93 because I
was -- I accepted, okay, I am No. 1 and if I don't get to the finals every tournament,
hey, no big deal. And then I had a really good time in Chicago and Paris and everything
and then everything what happened in Hamburg kind of changed that. I think it came at a
time when I was just feeling very happy and very comfortable with everything, but just
because it came at that time, it doesn't mean that you can ever be again happy because
something again terrible is going to happen to you. Thank you.

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT