U.S. OPEN
August 31, 1995
Monica Seles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Monica, Erika got clobbered out there; yet, she comes in and says she thinks you
look vulnerable?
 
 MONICA SELES: I think today it was so windy out there. The wind was swirling around and
I just felt I wasn't attacking, was like I played pretty well. I think the last game, I
was playing my game. The whole other game, I was like pushing back a lot of her returns.
So -- but it was just great to just get it out of the way. I felt that I was running down
quite a lot of balls pretty well. I think that was a good part of today's game, but it was
just great to be out there. It was fun to play. So I am not going to get too critical of
myself. 
 
Q. You actually snuck into the net a couple of times. Was that a matter of opportunity
or are you feeling more comfortable --
 
 MONICA SELES: I have been volleying so well in practice, that I felt I am going to try
to come in a few times and I was just really kind of getting tough on myself, because I
felt all I was doing was just pushing back to Erika's balls, and she was the one who was
attacking. I felt, wow, that is not the way I want to win or lose this match. I said just
go in, and a few times I got, I think, mad at myself and I just went in. And one was a
pretty big point. I think it was like 1 --- 4-2 and it was a deuce and she luckily missed
her passing shot. But I just wished I attacked more; even come in, because I am doing it
so well in practice; that there is no logic why I shouldn't do it in a match. 
 
Q. Monica, the other day one of the players was saying that there is the sense among
the other players for them that it is fun to have you back because they can gauge how much
they have improved over the last two years when they play you. Can you sense that as well?
I mean, you are meeting people you never played or haven't played in a long time.
 
 MONICA SELES: I think so. I think they can compare that really every Grand Slam
tournament; how much they improve or not. I mean, two and a half years is a long time to
try and to compare-- you have to improve like something major or probably you are not
going to do it in your lifetime if you are not going to do that. But I felt in Canada most
players went out with -- they are just going to play and nothing to lose and play hard,
and I am sure that is the same attitude here. But both of us are out there to do the best
that we can and make better moments on that day. 
 
Q. The nerves that you had before your first match, were they completely gone today?
 
 MONICA SELES: Well, honestly, I was very surprised with the Davenport and Garrison
match because Zina won the first set. I said, I am sure it is going to be three sets;
suddenly it was 5-3, and I was just -- I just have, like, not much time to really warm up.
Didn't have too much time to think and go through my routine. Then to me, I wasn't as
nervous, nothing to -- not even maybe 20% of what I was on Monday night. The only thing
today that was really bugging me was the wind because it was swirling, so I felt I
couldn't control the ball; where to go or the ball toss or everything, but it was a good
match. We had, I think, like four, five great points in there and I had to work very hard
to win every point. 
 
Q. Monica, you think you are playing better or worse than before; are you hitting the
ball harder now or --
 
 MONICA SELES: I don't know. I think my serve is definitely harder. I do feel that. I
can control my serve pretty well. I think I was returning probably better and probably was
more consistent, but that is just I haven't played for how many years? I mean, not just
tournaments, but tennis, period. So that is going to come with going back home and after
my knee is fine; going back though that routine of playing day-in/day-out to have that
consistency. And probably being, I think, running and getting back into the shape that I
was in 1992, or early '93. 
 
Q. How about mentally, Monica, are you able to concentrate, focus in as easily as
before? Do you have to train yourself to do that as well?
 
 MONICA SELES: I have to train myself. I go through a routine like I do before a match.
Today I couldn't do that. I was hurried into it. The one thing I didn't really notice
before is how noisy it is. Today I was like, wow, it is noisy. I said, just focus, focus
on the points, but I do have this routine that I try to go through before every match. 
 
Q. What is your routine?
 
 MONICA SELES: Pretty much just try to concentrate on what it is I'd like to do when I
go out there and that I am going to feel comfortable and I am not going to get nervous or
anything and just go out there and do what I am supposed to go out there to do, and have
fun out there. And stay relaxed. Pretty much, those are the few things, just go over and
over in my mind over that, and that is pretty much it. 
 
Q. I am trying to remember if you had ever had to play on any of the outer courts
before?
 
 MONICA SELES: I think -- no, even in '89, where did I play -- I lost to Chris in the
third round -- fourth round might have been. No, I played in the grandstand and I played
on stadium, but singles matches I have never played on court -- sorry, 16, I did play, I
am sorry. 
 
Q. The reason I asked, I wondered if that adds to your comfort level at all to be back
in the stadium?
 
 MONICA SELES: No, I think -- I mean, accessibilitywise probably the one -- you can't
even say it because you have to walk from the lockerroom to the stadium court, so I would
feel the same probably, walking to Court 16, or stadium; the only difference in stadium,
as I said, it felt much more windier when I practiced a little bit late in the morning
than the grandstand, but both courts are great. 
 
Q. Do you ever think about losing?
 
 MONICA SELES: I try not to let that thought enter in my mind, but no, I never really
thought. I had -- going into the match I don't think I am going to lose, but I don't think
I am going to win either. I go in play point by point and I think whatever happens,
happens. 
 
Q. When you talk about the mental part and the routine that you have, and hearing the
noise a little more than before, is that just difficulty focusing on tennis or being kind
of nervous about crowds still and being aware of who is around you?
 
 MONICA SELES: Focusing on the tennis, I really think. Like I felt today she served some
first great serves. She would serve like a 66 second serve, and I would be standing back
like two feet and just pushing it back. A lot of times when she was serving, my attention
wouldn't be on her serve; looking back up at all the people. After a few points, I look up
there and I realize that I am here actually playing. My mind is wandering a little bit
which beforehand it was 100% and now it is 70. 
 
Q. In the past couple of days have you ever seen any of the other top players perform,
either Arantxa or Steffi, and can you categorize one as the one to beat maybe yourself --
 
 MONICA SELES: I always look at my next match, that is the one that I am just looking
forward to now. I haven't seen Steffi or Arantxa, or Gaby play, because right now at this
point, who knows if I will ever play them at this tournament, so it is not really in my
mind. It is my next match. 
 
Q. How have you kind of kept yourself occupied the last couple of days besides
practicing.
Q. Sleep?
 
 MONICA SELES: Yes. Well, after Monday night, we got home by like 11. I came back to
practice early in the morning and then I went home and I wanted to go out to New Jersey to
a friend's house to maybe hit later in the afternoon and I just said, I am going to take
like an hour and a half nap. I went to sleep like at 10; I didn't wake up 'til about five
o'clock. It is the same thing that happened after Martina's match. That was much more
longer of a sleep. That was great. It was something like it felt something was let out of
my body. That was my feeling. Yesterday, a neat thing happened to me. We went to this
department store to eat dinner. At the end, this one person asked me for an autograph and
then the whole restaurant, like, people just like started clapping and everything and I
was like, and it was just one of the nicest things, I mean, in New York, you just don't
imagine that. They are just so sweet and we were walking out and everybody -- that was
really -- but otherwise, I went to Barneys for the first time; never been in there before.
It was quite a unique store. And that was -- I just walked in the park which I love to do.
So that was it. 
 
Q. Is that where you were eating?
 
 MONICA SELES: Yes. 
 
Q. Is that the restaurant?
 
 MONICA SELES: Downstairs. It is quite amazing stuff they have in there. Foodwise and
clothingwise and shoewise. But everything -- I was waiting for my person who I was having
dinner with, and the person was a little bit late. They were playing music. I think it was
Frank Sinatra because early in the store they were also playing Frank Sinatra, and -- but
at this store and it was about 8:30 and the music was playing. I am in this hat
department. There is absolutely nobody there. It is almost closing time. I am, like,
trying on all these hats, 100 hats, that I can try on without a salesperson ever coming to
me and this music was playing. I just felt like it is out of the movies like when you see
Audrey Hepburn like wow, I mean, but it was the best. 
 
Q. Doing it at Barneys. Breakfast at Tiffany's, dinner at Barneys.
 
 MONICA SELES: No, it was such really neat. It was, I mean, it was just an unbelievable
feeling. It stayed with me, a few things. 
 
Q. Did you buy anything?
 
 MONICA SELES: No, I didn't. No. I never wear hats. I just collect them. 
 
Q. Do you have a new hairdo coming?
 
 MONICA SELES: No, I like my hair long. I am going to stick with it. This is my natural
hair color and I am fine. It is okay. 
 
Q. Monica, just another lighthearted one. You had worn the tennis dress before when you
first hit Atlantic City and Canada. You kind of changed fashions for this?
 
 MONICA SELES: Nike pretty much came to me with this idea and I loved it. And I loved
this dress. It is very young and it is very me, I felt, and it is kind of also very New
York, so they came to me, would you like to wear it, and I said, yeah, I mean, I would
love it. 
 
Q. What you had on today?
 
 MONICA SELES: Yeah, you could have a black or white shirt. I didn't think coming out
wearing a black shirt would be a good idea today. But at night I am going to wear the
black shirt, but I like it. I like the shirt a lot. 
 
Q. When you sort of go through New York, through the park, do you have your security
guards around you?
 
 MONICA SELES: No, they leave me after the courts. I shouldn't say that. 
 
Q. I won't say that.
 
 MONICA SELES: Thank you. 
 
Q. How is the knee? Are you still ununable to jog?
 
 MONICA SELES: I can't jog or do any weights or anything. I mean, that is -- but I am
just doing therapy on it and what I tell myself kind of is that after this you are going
to have some time off and it will be okay. Now just try to get through it day by day. I
think I am taking this anti-inflammatory which is very strong; keeps at least as much of
the inflammation down; hopefully, I won't do too much to damage it. That is my only
concern. It is sore. Sometimes you touch it; it is very sore. 
 
Q. You have been back just a short while, Monica, but is there one difference either in
the Tour itself or the players that you can point to?
 
 MONICA SELES: I think -- well, I think most of the players -- I don't know. I think the
players were maybe -- well, I think they are more nicer, I think, to me, than before. I
think some of them -- most of them are really nice to me before, but some beforehand would
be kind of okay. They were really nice to me now and that is really nice because just go
on from the beginning and forget whatever-- I don't know -- happened there from my point,
I don't know, but it was just really nice to see, for me, everybody I kept in touch with,
one or two of the Tour directors from the WTA, it was really nice to see her also again
and it is really nice when I look at a few players who have wrote to me all along. And to
actually see them -- I saw most of them in Toronto and it was really nice. That has been
the fun part. Even like the simple thing like Saturday when I went to the lockerroom and
seeing all the ladies that help us out through the weeks and they start hugging me and all
the stuff that they say, it was really sweet. I told my mom and dad when we had dinner
Saturday because they asked me "who have you seen." I said well, I don't know,
because I have seen so many people and they are all so nice. I just -- but it is really
nice, I mean, it is weird being in the lockerroom, but I guess it is for everybody a new
lockerroom because I was so used to the other one. 
 
Q. Who were some of the players who wrote to you?
 
 MONICA SELES: Helena Sukova kept in touch for a very long period. Then Elise Burgin
wrote to me a few times. Andre Jaeger has been really quite amazing. Martina has been in
touch a lot. Betsy, of course, has been tremendous, the most in touch. That is about it. I
might miss one or two like Atlantic City. I don't know, I missed somebody, and probably as
I heard before, a few people wrote and I never got their notes, which I said, but -- 
 
Q. Monica, besides the knee in Toronto you mentioned your weight. How is this affecting
you here? Are you on a special diet?
 
 MONICA SELES: You see, for not doing so much and from one day working out, like so
much, and then going from the other day of not doing as much, my body went through a lot
of changes, but otherwise, no, I mean, yesterday I was more worried about this cut that
just appeared on my hand out of, I think, no where, more than about that, and I feel I am
moving pretty well. So -- and today is why I was very happy. I was moving very well. I
think after this is over I will have a chance to start back running again or -- I probably
will not do running because I promised myself, but I will do fast walking, so hopefully
get into shape with Steffi and Mary, so... One day. 
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT