U.S. OPEN
August 28, 1995
Monica Seles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. You were nervous, Monica, in the first set?

MONICA SELES: Oh, very much. I think the whole match. I was very nervous. She just
tried to slow me down so much, and my adrenaline was going so fast that it just, like, it
was, like, I had so much energy in me and, then she just slowed down almost every point.
But I just told myself just concentrate, concentrate, concentrate. It was a very quiet
match.

Q. Is there any part of your game that you are not happy with?

MONICA SELES: I don't think, I mean, today is very different obviously because it is
the first time you are going out there to play at the Open. I mean, there is so much
excitement, so much nervousness, not just walk out to the stadium, with you the whole day,
really thinking about the match, and never having -- never really seeing her play or at
all, so I was just real nervous that I was going to play the Open really tonight. I mean,
wow, but gamewise, I don't know, I mean, I was -- I went out there today just trying to
focus on the ball and I wasn't focusing on the ball. I was hitting them as they were
coming. I was missing them as they were coming. I had no plans, so...

Q. Have you looked at your next opponent?

MONICA SELES: I know Erika DeLone, I know, I think actually I played her one time and
she is a very good backcourt player. So we will have a lot of long rallies.

Q. How do you feel about these receptions that you have gotten from the fans?

MONICA SELES: It is great. It is very nice, and there is so much energy in there, and
it is just really sweet. And the kids and -- they are -- there is one girl behind on that
side, that like four times during the games she told me "Go for it, Monica," and
I was like, okay, and she -- when you get that from a little girl - she might have been
seven, eight years old - that is what makes your day. That is like, wow, okay. I said,
"Well go for it, Monica" you are just pushing them back, you were standing two
feet behind the baseline, but I wasn't conscious, really out there today. I just went out
and hit one or two great serves, then I hit one or two bad serves. That was the same thing
with my groundstrokes. I would hit a winner that was going so fast, and then I would just
push something back, so -- but it is just great to play.

Q. Is there a feeling that -- Arthur Ashe used to say when he'd go out in a match, he
wasn't sure he could get the ball over the net even though he played many, many matches,
and there you open with a doublefault; what was your thought there?

MONICA SELES: I just said, "Here we go again." I was just so nervous and it
was pretty windy out there today and I haven't played in windy conditions for quite some
time, and also what made it even harder that I never seen Dragomir play. I didn't know
what to expect. I said I am going to try and test out her game in the beginning. But
hopefully, luckily, I think it went well. That is the most important part.

Q. Three years ago you were on that court, you walked off, you were the champion. That
is a long time. Did those feelings run through your mind?

MONICA SELES: Not at all this time, no. I just went with today's match, I pretty much,
I mean, the whole day -- I slept about, oh, I came out here very early this morning and
then I just went to sleep for about four and a half hours. I woke up like at 4:00
something, and I had maybe like an hour to get ready before the car came to pick me up. So
and I just went out there today just to play, and it was just great to be playing, no
plan, or nothing, and just I was just like --

Q. What time did you come out this morning?

MONICA SELES: 7, I think, 7:15, something like that.

Q. When did the people start arriving?

MONICA SELES: Not 'til 8, around 8 something. But I think around 8:30, it was more and
more people coming.

Q. Is that typical for you, Monica?

MONICA SELES: I love to practice in the morning because it is so quiet and early on,
although, at home I practice a little bit later, 7:30, but I just like it because it is
very quiet and I can just focus.

Q. And did you go back to Manhattan?

MONICA SELES: Yes.

Q. Took a nap; then came...

MONICA SELES: I took a nap probably the time finished my stretching and my therapy,
probably about 10, so, like from 11 'til about 4, I just went to sleep. I wanted to go
walk the city a little bit, but none of those things happened. It is the same thing after
Martina's match, the amount that I slept, but it was just such a relief to get the Martina
match out. I am sure this one was such a relief also just go on and think about the next
match now.

Q. Monica, in the second set you had to run the baseline for a running forehand that
you stretched for. You particularly feel good about that shot?

MONICA SELES: I love my one-handed forehand. A lot of times when I play with different
people they think that, oh, you know, you are just not wanting to run and you are kidding,
but I love to hit that forehand. I think I can hit it pretty well, if I don't get too
nervous and don't get too anxious that I want to hit a great shot, but as a two-hander I
need that because there is -- so much harder for me to cover the court if somebody is
hitting wide, so I need that one-hander on my forehand and my one-handed slice on my
backhand.

Q. Monica, if you could step back for a moment, and look at your time away from the
game, could you say one thing that you learned the most during your absence from the game?

MONICA SELES: About the game? Wow...

Q. Or about yourself.

MONICA SELES: About myself, I think, to make the most of everyday and to do kind of
what you want to do everyday, that is the one thing that -- and I try to do that. And try
to have fun out there more because I think when I was playing before I was very
competitive and very focused and I am trying to have more fun out there. I think I was
able to do that later on in Canada. Tonight I was having fun, but I don't think -- my face
was so serious, I did this to my face, I said, relax, Monica, your face, you are so tight.
I was like everything -- my muscles were just like so tight, but that is normal, I think.
As the matches go on, I will be more relaxed.

Q. How long do you think it will take before the first match will feel normal rather
than a big deal?

MONICA SELES: I think after this tournament because -- well, Atlantic City was very
exciting because it was the first tournament. Canada was the first tournament and this one
is extra special because it is a Grand Slam and I always love playing in Grand Slams so,
so hopefully after this one, everything will go back to the usual first round routine
stuff.

Q. When you were at home thinking about what the comeback would be like, you must have
had an image in your mind; was that image close to what the reality has been so far? 

MONICA SELES: My main thing was after Canada really didn't have too much time to think.
Because I was like very happy about that one, but not really. I didn't think one way or
the other, but my main thing was I told myself that Monica, you have to find a balance
where you are going to have fun and enjoy it, but also where you have to go out there and
play a great match because -- and from what I heard from my dad and everybody that she is
a good backcourt player; you are going to have a lot of long rallies. I knew that I have
to be out there. Because it is a match you have to play well. It is not like I don't know
sometimes when you just go out there you wave, that is different. You don't have to do
anything after the wave. But here you have to play. So it is a little different.

Q. Do you remember Monica, the last time you were this nervous for a match?

MONICA SELES: I think I was very nervous from all the first matches that I played
Atlantic City, Canada, I think I was the most nervous here. I think a little bit -- I was
just nervous. I was so stiff. My God, I was just so stiff.

Q. Where do you think you are staminawise; do you think this tournament is going to be
more of a test for stamina?

MONICA SELES: I think both. I think it is going to be a test for my game and stamina.
As I said, I really decided I am going to come back very -- after Lipton -- I have been
back and forth with different injuries. I couldn't get physically ready as I would like to
be. I think I will see that. But I think him right now, I am just very happy to be
playing. For a long time, I mean, I dreamt of this, but I didn't envision it. So just
that, for me, right now is the main thing. Hopefully, now it is just do your best, and
early next year it is going to be more going back to that really competitiveness and
trying to get back the routine that I had before this all happened.

Q. Is there a nervousness of expectations; almost everybody expects you to win this
tournament?

MONICA SELES: No. Because -- well, always expectations are always high on me even in
the juniors and all my life. I just learned something, early on, that I just have to live
up to my own expectations; not my father's; not anybody's or . . . And that is the same
thing I am going in with, but I think Canada because when I played Canada there were no
expectations and after I did so well in Canada, everybody is, like, wow, she is going to
do so well, but Canada was very different, and this is the U.S. Open; it is two week
tournament and anything can happen, but for me it is just great to be playing. I
personally have no expectations of myself as usual. I am just thinking of my next match.

Q. Would it have been easier had you not won Canada?

MONICA SELES: I don't know. I believe in that as they come you have to accept it and
think as that is the best. I think winning Canada, I have to look, that was great. It
brought me because I had a little bit of -- well, actually, a lot of match play; maybe not
a few close matches, but I played against Anke a close one. It brought me getting used to
the crowds to everything again, to the time changes, the five minute warmups, but and I
was very -- It was a huge surprise to me. I was like, wow, and I just didn't think I would
play so well. For me, I was very surprised after Sunday that the whole week went so well
and everything about it was just going grand. I felt very comfortable going into the
matches and playing, and, but I told myself, this is different, and that is the thing that
I am just going to keep continuing. 

Q. Did you watch this tournament last year on television?

MONICA SELES: Last year the Open I did not watch, no.

Q. Do you wonder how you are going to play when you get into a tight set 5-5 -- do you
wonder about your personal stroking discipline when you get into a 5-5 or 6-6 set that you
haven't been in yet?

MONICA SELES: Yes. I think the closest I was at the time was really Huber and maybe
Martina - when I played Martina the first set. My thing is it is going to come,
definitely. At this tournament I just think to play point by point as I used to do and not
think ahead. And probably one of the best matches I have played here in terms of closeness
was when I played Jennifer in '91 and that was the same thing, I just went out and took it
point by point. That is the same thing I am going to keep continue going because it has
worked in the past and whatever happens, happens.

Q. Seems like you are so comfortable with the crowd, Monica, especially after the
match; is that one of most gratifying things about playing?

MONICA SELES: It is just great, you see these kids. They are so nice. I mean, a lot of
times I look back when I growing up in Yugoslavia, I would go to tournaments and to this
day in my parents's house, I have an autograph of Bjorn Borg enclosed in glass, and
hopefully maybe one kid will do that with mine. But it is just great -- they are so nice.
I could -- if could I stay out there; sign them all, I would always do and I have always
done that in the past also, so I am going to keep continuing doing that.

Q. How has the lack of matchplay affected your game?

MONICA SELES: I think that will be seen. Right now, I think I am just trying to take
each match individually. And try not to think that I haven't played any matches, or I
haven't competed for a long time and just go with the excitement of actually playing again
and competing. That is my philosophy.

Q. Atlantic City was one time only and Toronto is in another country - was there a
feeling of familiarity of being back where you have been the champion twice?

MONICA SELES: For me, the weirdest one was Friday; Friday or Saturday, I am not sure,
when I shot a commercial in Forest Hills and I never been there, been to nice to go back
to the place where you heard so much about, but you never played in and usually doing a
commercial you have a long time shooting; it -- you have a long time to sit. I was sitting
in the stands and I had this feeling that I played here before, just so weird, but it was
also another point very hard to see something that had so much -- 20 years ago be so let
go. I thought well, time goes by very quickly, I guess, and I am sure maybe this will be
like that also, then the same evening I came out to practice here, and I was walking to
the stadium. I was like, wow, I am -- the first five minutes everything was new. Looking
way up, I didn't remember that it was so high up and after hitting for about five, ten
minutes, then everything just started coming back; all the memories of where my father and
my mom sat during the tournaments; where you held the trophy; couple of passing shots
against Martina and one or two shots against Capriati in 1991, all started coming back.

Q. Where were you a year ago? Were you at home during this tournament?

MONICA SELES: I have to -- one second. Three places I might have been. I might have
been in Reno, Nevada or Sarasota and I might have been with my dad in Italy because he was
getting some cartoon award something that he did. I think during the two weeks I was
almost in everyplace. I started out, I think, in Italy; then I came home to Sarasota;
then I went to Reno.

Q. Do you have fun on all this vacation?

MONICA SELES: Now? Now I am having fun,; then, I didn't. That is why it is so great.
That is why I said it is just so exciting to be playing. It is so simple for me. The
simpler I keep it, the better it is. And it is all about just playing great tennis; that
is why I am here; that is what I love to do; that is a why I started this whole thing. I
played -- as long as I love to play and every time I step on court be it a match or
practice court, I love it. That is what matters. I think if you work hard, the rest of it
all comes.

Q. Were there moments more than two years ago where it had stopped becoming fun?

MONICA SELES: No, I don't think so. I think after I became No. 1 like very early on, I
think it was very hard because suddenly there were so much pressure I felt that every time
I would have to get to the finals or defend every point, each time you go into a
tournament it is like, oh, if you don't win the tournament, you come out like a loser, I
said, wow, you can't expect to win every tournament, but then in 1993 Australian Open, I
felt that was one of my best Grand Slams, and on and off the court, I kind of said, well,
okay, you are No. 1, that is great. But, you know, you don't have to feel that much of a
pressure. It doesn't matter. And that is why it was so hard for me after Hamburg because I
felt I finally found the balance and then from one day going to practice and think about
tennis, you are totally different reality so....

Q. Where do you go next?

MONICA SELES: Time will tell that. I am not sure what I am going to play after the
Open. Right now for me him just concentrating on the Open. Thank you.

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT