U.S. OPEN
September 4, 1992
Monica Seles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.   Monica, you were just sort of slow getting started tonight.
 Is that --

 MONICA SELES:  It was really humid out there.  At the beginning
it was kind of hard to see the ball.  I just-- one or two points
that I played really bad.  I doublefaulted on a breakpoint.  Just
missed easy balls that I shouldn't have.  And then 4-1, I just
told myself I've really got to lift my game if I want to pull
out this first set.

 Q.   Martina and Jennifer both had big wins this summer, as
you know.  Then, of course, they both lost here.  You had your
great wins earlier in the year, yet you sort of had a rough spell
since London.  Is it particularly hard to sustain a level of excellence?

 MONICA SELES:  I think it's very hard now to always, you know,
do very well, because the tour-- the depth is just there.  Both
of them have a tough-- I mean, tough second and third round. 
Maleeva Magdalena could be a good player.  Sometimes the other
players just don't have that tough of a draw and they don't have
the upsets.  But personally, I don't think-- it is hard to say,
because let's say, like, two months ago Martina played Magdalena
at Wimbledon.  It was an easy match.  I didn't think Martina would
have a problem with her, but then Martina was just-- is not the
Martina that you are used to seeing.  Jennifer's match, I didn't
watch it today, but I played Hy a few weeks ago.  She is a tough
player. Both of them are very good players.  I don't think that
getting to two finals is not good.  I am satisfied with it.  I
don't want to have the pressure on myself to always have to win.
 It is impossible.  What I try to do now is go out each match
and just give everything that I have, pretty much.  You know,
just not look so much to winning, losing. It doesn't matter when
I look back at three years, I don't remember my wins and my losses.
 In three years, I wouldn't remember what I done at this Open
either.  It is unnecessary pressure on yourself.  That is the
point I am at right now.

 Q.   What happened in your mind and in your game after 4-2
in the first set.  How did you change the momentum?

 MONICA SELES:  I just charted staying better.  Started passing
her.  She was coming in on everything.  Sometimes she was just
coming in on easy balls that I am not used to anybody coming in
and then the beginning, I thought, okay, these are so easy, I
can't miss them and I did miss them. After 4-2, when I broke her,
I said to myself, concentrate now and start moving your feet.
 Just go at it.  That is what I tried to do.  I had a few lucky
shots.  In converse, she had a few lucky breaks.

 Q.   When you were trailing, did you think about Jennifer
goes out with an upset, Martina goes out with an upset; could
this be happening to me?

 MONICA SELES:  I don't think about that during the match. But
definitely when you walk into the lockerroom, you see it is match
point for Hy, not even know what the score is coming here, you
are definitely a little surprised even if you don't want to. 
It is still in your head a little bit, look, Jennifer is down
and Martina lost.  You just really try to take each match at a
time.  You don't want to get overconfident.  And you know, you
are always -- the surprise is there.  Everybody was surprised
yesterday and today also.  But that is how the game goes, nobody
can win always.  There will be bad and good days.  

 Q.   In a match like tonight it was more of a case at some
point just sort of giving yourself a mental slap?

 MONICA SELES:  I think so.

 Q.   Saying concentrate and then concentrating?

 MONICA SELES:  My feeling is that she really was coming in, sometimes
on great shots, sometimes just a ball, because that -- I never
had anybody come in and I took them a little bit too easily. 
I needed a wake-up call, basically.

 Q.   From there on in, it was just-- you just motored down?

 MONICA SELES:  Yeah, I was a lucky.  I start playing a little
better.

 Q.   You said years from now you wouldn't remember the specific
matches.  There is a 40 year old guy out there right now.  What
do you think Monica Seles might be doing when she is 40 years
old what do you think --

 MONICA SELES:  Hopefully married and having some children, I
think.  Just staying home.  Not traveling for a while. That would
be probably my goal.  I think it is a long way to go.  But then
again, when I am hurt and I can't play for two weeks, I miss the
game so much, that it would have to be something very strong outside
of tennis that would tell me, you know, put the racket down, basically
forever, competitively.  You know, I might play just one or two
tournaments, it is a hard decision.  I don't like to think about
it now because -- but to think that Jimmy, he is playing at such
a high level at age 40, in men's tennis, it is really incredible.
 I mean, there will be just one Connors, that is for sure, and
he loves it and it is just unreal.

 Q.   Jennifer came in here after winning the Olympics with
a real great amount of confidence, feeling good about herself.
 I talked to Martina last week after her win over you at L.A..
 She said she might have been playing as good tennis as she might
have been playing in 1986, the last time she was number one in
the world, I think.  Both of these players I personally would
have felt might be in the final or might be right there.  Now
they are both out.  What does that say about sort of your chances
of winning, or does it more likely bring it down to just either
you or Graf or Sabatini, one of the three?

 MONICA SELES:  I don't think so.  Because all of us are pretty
close matches.  I think Steffi really doesn't have that many tough
matches 'till the quarters, not any players that can upset her.
 But Gaby had a tough match today also.  So, I will have a tough
next round also.  So I don't like to look too forward.  But, you
know, Martina played, you know, a great match, I think in L.A.
but I still think my performance was really awful.  Not too good
there.  And Jennifer she did play excellent in Barcelona.  I certainly
thought that seeing her play in San Diego - she was playing great
tennis - you know, that we would, maybe meet in the quarter finals,
seeing her play.  But that is tennis, you know, I came in here
three years -- two years ago, also winning L.A. and just being
in a great winning streak and lost in the third round.  I mean,
and last year I won, the Virginia Slims of L.A. and I still won
here.  I mean, same thing last year when I had the second round,
three set match, it is a strange game.  Just really got to go
out there and take everybody very seriously.

 Q.   When insiders talk about you they sometimes say, well,
the public hasn't really appreciated what you have done or accomplished
at this age.  If there is one thing you think that the public
misunderstands about Monica Seles, what is it?

 MONICA SELES:  I think after Wimbledon there have been so many
stories written about myself even when I read them, myself, it
is kind of a strange, why do people come up with all of these
-- most of them are lies, I mean 90%.  I have read a lot of these
papers and people don't know what to believe, I think whatever
happened over 1991 Wimbledon, always I think people forget that
how young I am, even last year 17 - I am 18  this year, they think
I am 27 or 30, and they think -- there have been just so many
things written about myself, but not so much about my game.  That
is what I like to be changed.  I still think I am a tennis player.
There shouldn't be a page on my grunting or missing Wimbledon,
being pregnant, and these rumors.  I don't think too many tennis
players have to go through with it.  Maybe just four or five,
but I had think I had my share of all these things for quite awhile
now.  I think it is enough. I see no reason why it is always bring
up things that are just so unimportant.

 Q.   Are these things sticking or do you see some change?

 MONICA SELES:  I am seeing more change.  I think people are realizing
that all the things are written about Wimbledon are just -- not
balogney -- but just unfair, and I got a lot of letters after
Wimbledon this year about the grunting issue.  Just a lot of supporting
letters that kind of meant a lot to me, because you know, as I
said, I am just really surprised what happened out there.  Just
not the players and just how much of an issue was for 14 weeks
for people to stay outside of your house and then watch me practicing
on the court that I had at the house and just taking all those
things that you measure -- I felt a little bit out of the points
and just always picking on me with the grunting issue.  You go
out there and see -- today, I was practicing I heard another girl
grunting.  Nobody ever said anything to them.  Helen Kelesi's
grunt.  Why was I singled out every day?  That was the main question
in the press conference everyday for all my seven matches.

 Q.   I read the interview that you had where your first round
match or second round where there was a lot of discussion questions
about that.  The one question I didn't see asked and I apologize
for missing it, why did you stop after Wimbledon?

 MONICA SELES:  The grunting?

 Q.   Yes.

 MONICA SELES:  Basically, I felt that there is so much emphasis
on it and I didn't want people to always write about Monica's
grunting.  At one point two years ago, Monica is giggling.  Everybody
was saying everything about that; then again, nobody ever wrote
about my game.  Every year Wimbledon, it was the grunting every
year.  This year it went out of anybody's imagination, I think,
how much they were just writing about it.  And I was, I guess,
a little bit more surprised especially after the semi-final match
and maybe fought a little bit too much about it in the finals
which I shouldn't have, but after the final I made a promise to
myself it doesn't matter if you are grunting or not, you can't
worry about that.  That is not the most important thing out there.
 And just you know, don't make an issue out of it.  It is the
same thing I know that I was not pregnant in the 1991.  It is
the same thing that I know to grunt or not grunt, that is not
going to win or lose me a game.  That is why I made a promise
to myself.  That is what I am going to hopefully try and do.

 Q.   You talked about the depth in women's tennis.  How long
ago would you say there was more depth, how long ago would you
say it was more difficult to remain at the top?

 MONICA SELES:  I think since around 1990, it started, '89, when
Steffi was slowly not being so much dominant.  That is when it
started, being a lot of top players losing matches in the early
rounds, which before not happen.  In the earliest would be quarter
finals, but never second or third round.  I think it is still
unusual what happened here, but that is just shows that even top
players, you know, Steffi for myself, we play three sets with
a lot of lower ranked players who before everybody say, oh, Steffi
is going to go out 6-Love, 6-Love.  You don't see that much anymore.


 Q.   How fast do you think you won that second set?

 MONICA SELES:  20 minutes?

 Q.   18.

 MONICA SELES:  18 minutes, okay, close.  Thank you.

 End of FastScripts....            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT