HOME DEPOT CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 6, 2002
Monica Seles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Monica, it's been a while since you've beaten Lindsay.  Did you notice out there what was going on 
 
MONICA SELES:  It was definitely a weird match, to say the least.  I just toughed it out.  I think I was running down a lot of shots.  Lindsay got frustrated at the end and I got lucky. 
 

Q.   What does it mean to you to be back here?
 
MONICA SELES:  It's great.  After I played the finals against Martina two years, I didn't think in my career I would be part of the championships. Coming here, even with the draw, I didn't want to have today, it's still great to be here. 
 

Q.   Do you remember a match where you were 7 match points down and you won it?
 
MONICA SELES:  Yes.  I think four or five times last year. Set points but not match points.  That would be it. 
 

Q.   Monica, you haven't been here since '97.  You're 7 match points down.  You haven't played since September.  What are you thinking?
 
MONICA SELES:  I was thinking, go for the shots.  At that stage it is a little bit of luck, too.  You know, I just really tried to hang in the match, stay in there and deal with it. 
 

Q.   Do you feel you found your game there in the second set?
 
MONICA SELES:  Definitely.  I was having a hard time, and having to play someone like Lindsay, who hits the ball so hard, I was having trouble on the returns.  I felt I got the timing better. 
 

Q.   Monica, what did you think of the 2-6 tie breaker?
 
MONICA SELES:  I really try not to think at all in the match.  Whatever the score, I try to look forward to the next point, because that's the only thing I can control to a certain degree. 
 

Q.   What were your thoughts coming into the match?  You and Lindsay are friends.  She should have been seeded much higher.  That's not your typical first-round matchup.  
 
MONICA SELES:  I saw the draw and I was like, oh, gosh, of all the players to play.  Obviously, Lindsay would have been seeded very high if she didn't take that much time away.  It's the championships.  We've got to play every match.  I'm happy I got through today. 
 

Q.   Monica, I know this is a different venue but you've won the tournament three time in a row.  Anything special about playing the championships?
 
MONICA SELES:  You know, you play your best.  There is no easy match.  Each match you have to be up for it mentally and physically.  I think I'm like that.  I like to play when there is more pressure and it's tough like that.  I think, it's the last tournament in the year.  I'm kind of looking forward to a long rest after this one.  That helps also. 
 

Q.   Long rest means?  Will you be playing in Australia?
 
MONICA SELES:  Yeah, I think so. 
 

Q.   How long did it take you to get used to the Staples Center floor?
 
MONICA SELES:  None of us got a chance much to practice on it because they put the court down and it wasn't right yet.  I only got half an hour to hit on it right before my match today.  I have been here many times for basketball games and concerts.  It's amazing to play in a place like this. 
 

Q.   Were the neon advertising signs any distraction to you?
 
MONICA SELES:  It does somewhat affect you. 
 

Q.   Did you do anything special to prepare for this tournament?
 
MONICA SELES:  I have been working hard.  I took some weeks off after playing the US Open.  I chose not to go to Europe this fall.  I have been training hard to be in the best possible shape for this tournament. 
 

Q.   Physically, how are you?
 
MONICA SELES:  I feel good.  I have been injury-free, so that's been great.  I was able to practice.  It's been a nice change doing other stuff besides playing tennis, which was good for me.  I feel good.   Any time at this stage of my career, it's a bonus for me.  
 

Q.   Are your feet 100 percent?
 
MONICA SELES:  Probably 90. 
 

Q.   So you are not able to do any off-court practice?
 
MONICA SELES:  Pretty much, yeah. 
 

Q.   Do you get a kick of coming back from 7 match points?
 
MONICA SELES:  Yeah.  I mean, those are the times you don't really think will happen.  If someone told me that, I would be, like, oh sure, whatever.  As a player and competitor, I just really want to give my best every point.  That's all I want to do and all I care about.  Tonight was special because you pull out a match.  We were almost ready to shake hands.  There are some nights where just the opposite happens to me. 
 

Q.   Have you ever given up that many match points?  What's the most match points you've given up?
 
MONICA SELES:  I don't think I've given up that many match points so far in my career, but I had a few close calls.   
 

Q.   Just talk a little bit about Venus.  What do you think your chances are against her?
 
MONICA SELES:  I mean, she has a very powerful game, both sides and the ground strokes, obviously, the serve.  She has played truthfully a solid year.  Right after Serena, she's the No. 2 player in the world.  I don't have a great record against her. 
 

Q.   Did you ever think that at any time in the match you could outlast Ms. Davenport due to her injury on her knee?
 
MONICA SELES:  In this match I was trying to focus on every ball at a time and not worry about Lindsay, about myself, about the crowd, because anything can happen in a tennis match when you're out there. 
 

Q.   Besides the match points, what's going through your head at 6-3, love-3?  
 
MONICA SELES:  We had a few games there where it went by fast.  You know, we don't play matches for that length of a period and so you're a little bit unsure of yourself.  I definitely started off well, I thought.  Lindsay played more solidly.  I was lucky to break her there at 3-1 when she was up 40-love.  I think mentally for me it helped to really stay in this match and see where it was going to go. 
 

Q.   How do you feel right now?
 
MONICA SELES:  I feel good.  Hopefully the body will feel good in the morning with a little bit of recovery.  Thank you.   
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT