US OPEN
August 29, 2002
Monica Seles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions for Monica. 


Q.  Quite a turnaround, and the crowd. 

MONICA SELES:  Really the crowd pulled me through tonight's match big time.  I came out very flat.  The conditions were tough.  She is a tough opponent to play, she doesn't give you any rhythm.  Losing to her the last time.  But really the crowd just totally pulled me through it tonight.

Q.  There's such an emotional response to you everywhere you go, especially here.  What is that like?

MONICA SELES:  It's great.  Gosh, really today I could have lost pretty much without their help out there, on the plane back home tomorrow.  It's just great.  It's a great feeling at this stage of my career.

Q.  Is that the most meaningful thing to you in your career?  You obviously have all your titles, great strokes, money.  Is the fan appreciation great?

MONICA SELES:  It is just great.  Really, it's hard to describe that feeling, how good that feels.  You know, I mean, I went through a period when I just came on the tour that that was not the case.  I would play against Navratilova, she would get that.  "I wish one day I would get it."  Now that I have it, there's really no feeling like it.

Q.  What do you think the fans see in you that touches them?

MONICA SELES:  I don't know that.  You'd have to ask them.  I can't talk about myself.  That would be hard for me. 

Q.  Does it kind of blow your mind, you won this thing 10 years ago?

MONICA SELES:  Definitely, a long time ago.  I didn't play it for a couple years, too.  I think three years I missed, the best years.  Yeah, definitely.  Coming here first time I think in '89, almost trying to make it in '88, being here, I'm just happy.  This is one of the few Grand Slams I did really not have to miss in the later stages of my career. 

Q.  Do you think if you had told 18-year-old Monica Seles everything that was going to happen in the next 10 years, you would have believed a word of it?

MONICA SELES:  No, I mean, for whatever reason in my life there have been some events that made it very difficult, both on and off the court.  That's the  hand that you're dealt with. I'm very happy doing what I'm doing right now.  That's really all that matters.

Q.  Stupid question maybe, but you're 28, you won every title, lots of money, why not just hang it up? 

MONICA SELES:  Really that's not what it is.  My life is very complicated even right now today, sitting here.  If that would be the case, you know, the reason.  Really not.  I don't know.  I just really love the game.  It's so simple for me.  As a little girl, that's why I started.  As long as I can compete professionally and I'm happy at that level, injury-free.  But I also know I'll play tennis in my old age, too.   It's just a sport that I love.  I've been very lucky to make actually a living at it, not just having to have it as a hobby and have another job. 

Q.  Life does get more complicated as you get older.  Does that make you appreciate the game even more in your later years?

MONICA SELES:  I think, yeah, definitely.  In my life, I haven't made anything complicated.  Unfortunately it's all been other people.  But that's how it is.  It made me just, you know, do what you have to do.

Q.  What kind of things do you feel like you still want to accomplish out here?

MONICA SELES:  Well, a lot of things.  I'd like to play a couple times before I stop competing, playing a really good match.  That's one of my goals.  You know, obviously win some more titles.

Q.  Tennis is defined by the four Grand Slam tournaments.  Each has their personality.  I think it's fair to say the US Open is, in a way, a big pain in the neck, but it's also kind of wonderful.  Is it your favorite of the Slams?

MONICA SELES:  I really could not pick.  I mean, I used to say it was Australia at some point, then it was the French, then it was The Open.  Now I love Wimbledon, too.  Each one is so unique, the atmosphere of each one.  They're so different from each other.  You've got to prepare mentally different for each one of them.

Q.  For people who haven't been in the center of the pit of one of those stadiums, compare it to something else.

MONICA SELES:  Well, I mean, I've never really been on stage, besides like presenting awards.  It's very different, if you're a singer or stuff.  I just know when I first came here to The Open as a spectator in '86, gosh, I was like in such awe of the big stadium, all the people.  It didn't even cross my mind that one day I would play and win one of my titles there.  I think when I retire and come back again as a spectator, I'll have even a better perspective as I've gotten older and went through more things.

Q.  Did you ever meet Arthur Ashe?

MONICA SELES:  I did, yeah, a few times.

Q.  Do you have any thoughts about him?

MONICA SELES:  I think he was a wonderful gentleman.  Gosh, he had to go through so much stuff in his life besides being one of the greatest tennis players.  It was a  -- he was a wonderful human being.

Q.  It must mean a lot to you that The Championships are coming back to the United States.  Could you talk about the fact they'll be in LA. 

MONICA SELES:  I think it's just the place for it to be.  I think right now the Top 4 or 5 in the world on the women's side are all Americans.  I think it should be here.  Obviously, it did not work last year where it was.  I just hope, you know, at some stage it will come back also to New York, because there's no feeling like playing in Madison Square Garden.  I look forward to playing at the Staples Center.  I've only been there for concerts and basketball games.  It will be a lot of fun.  For a selfish reason, I was really happy.

Q.  Do you have one memory of being a fan at the Staples Center that stands out?

MONICA SELES:  Just for the basketball games.  The atmosphere when the Lakers play is really good there.

Q.  You said earlier this year whenever it does come time for you to retire, you'll know it.  A lot of people in the crowd were worried this is your last. 

MONICA SELES:  I've heard those rumors going around.  In Australia in the beginning of the year, again, the same stuff was being written, that this is my last tournament.  I said, "I don't know, I'm going to play as long as I enjoy it."  I don't want to put that pressure that I'll play for sure next year or stop after this one.  Right now I'm really enjoying it, working hard.  If my body allows it, I'd like to keep playing.  If I wake up a few days in a row and really see this is not happening for me, I'll move on.  But I still hope my body will allow me to play at least recreationally.

Q.  You're not making a concrete plan?

MONICA SELES:  No.

Q.  Are you paying any extra attention thinking it might not be your last one?

MONICA SELES:  Really hasn't even crossed my mind thinking about that.  I know after this one, the next big one is The Championships.  That's kind of what I've been thinking.  Into any matches I've gone, it's been a struggle for me the last few months mentally for different reasons, nothing to do with tennis.  That's why I haven't given really any thought to that. 

Q.  At one point you had a bit of a problem with a volley, pretty makable volley. 

MONICA SELES:  She did, too.  Both of us made some very bad errors today (laughter). 

Q.  Talk about your volley.  Has it been a problem for you in your career?

MONICA SELES:  Well, I definitely volley very well in practice.  Whoever you ask, Billie Jean, whoever they see me, they cannot believe how well I volley.  I never made that transition into a match.  I should have probably played more doubles earlier in my career.  That's past.  Now I think it's kind of too late for me.

Q.  Is it the grips?

MONICA SELES:  No.  I hit the volley very well.  You can talk to Billie Jean.  I think she would be the person who has seen me the most.  Who else was it couldn't believe I could volley?  Another very good player.  I think for me it's more of a transition of what you do in practice, putting it in a match.  I think my will to win is so strong that I don't like to try new things.  That has been not one of my best traits in my career.

Q.  You think the support of the people today was the difference?

MONICA SELES:  Definitely.  As I said, they helped me through.  I came out very flat today.  The conditions were tough out there.  She's an opponent that doesn't give you any rhythm.  I definitely think they pulled me through today's match. 

Q.  Is it because "I should give these people a show" or the energy?

MONICA SELES:  No, just the enthusiasm and energy you get from them.  You know, people next to you, when you're returning say, "Come on, stay focused."  Little things let you not get so frustrated with yourself when things are not going your way.  At the same time you're in a Grand Slam, you just want to make every possible effort out there to get back in.  In tennis, you never know.  I won some matches when I was down 5-1, I've lost some when I was up 5-1.  You never know till you shake hands.

Q.  Can you envision the final Saturday night, Monica Seles holding the trophy in victory?

MONICA SELES:  Right now I think that's the furthest thing from my mind right now.  I'm looking to my next round.  I think anybody in the draw has some chances.  I think obviously right now you have to give some other players better chances than me.  If I wouldn't believe that, I definitely wouldn't be playing. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT