FED CUP - ISRAEL vs USA
July 20, 2002
Monica Seles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  First question, please.  
 
 
Q.  Would you talk about the first set a little bit.  Was it frustrating?  You let her get back into it a little bit. 
 
MONICA SELES:  Oh, definitely.  Then she started playing better.  It's one of those things that, you know, I wasn't playing as well out there and I had to get used to the conditions.  It was a little bit of a seesaw match on my part.  
 
Q.  (Question referring to playing an opponent you're not familiar with in Fed Cup)?
 
MONICA SELES:  Yeah, definitely.  I mean, I watched her hit against Anna a couple days ago.  I knew she was a very good runner, she's in great shape.  I didn't play as aggressively as I would like to, and I gave her plenty of time to hit the ball.  Her forehand was really very good.  She had nothing to lose.  So both Lindsay and I kind of knew we had to be on our toes.  
 
Q.  How about the weather, how did that affect you? 
 
MONICA SELES:  Well, it's really extreme heat.  I wish we were playing a little bit later  - I think both of us.  Tomorrow I guess the heat index is even worse than today, so great... I mean, I've got blisters on my foot. But that's part of it.  You got to get used to it.  I think next week in Stanford will be a lot cooler.  Hopefully, we can just win one match out of the next three and just get it over with.  
 
Q.  Can you talk about the satisfaction of being up 2-love.
 
MONICA SELES:  Definitely.  I mean, Lindsay did a fantastic job.  I mean, gosh, for her not to play for nine months and come back and play so well in extremely tough conditions, plus, on top of that, the pressure of having to kind of win the match, it's just great.  That put a little bit less pressure on me, and I just went out there.  I think the whole team is very happy to be up 2-love.  
 
Q.  Does the heat present more physical problems or mental problems? 
 
MONICA SELES:  I think it's a combination of both.  I mean, I haven't seen this heat since probably last year.  And I only spent like two days in Sarasota at home.  I really kind of should pay more attention to it, train more in heat.  But that's what it is and, you know, learn for next time.  
 
Q.  How do you prepare yourself for a fast turnaround, playing Smashnova tomorrow?
 
MONICA SELES:  Well, I think we'll have a team meeting, we'll discuss her game.  I mean, I only played her once a couple months ago on clay.  She's a player that gets back a lot of balls, I mean.  I have to play better I think than I did today.  Hopefully, I can find my game a little bit better than I did today.  
 
Q.  Did you beat her?
 
MONICA SELES:  Yes, I did then.  Yeah.  
 
Q.  Any comments on the fan support?
 
MONICA SELES:  Oh, it was great.  I mean, it's always nice to have them support you, you know, even if you're returning, in the box seats quietly they're just saying, "Come on," or, "Stay tough."  That helps because it's a tough match.  I still wish more fans would come out, I think.  I really was surprised because I played Team Tennis here a couple years ago and there were more fans.  But hopefully for tomorrow more will show up.  
 
Q.  Was your forehand a little shaky today? 
 
MONICA SELES:  Yeah, I was having a hard time with my forehand, my serve today.  It was just a difficult, frustrating day for me out there.  But I haven't played much.  As anybody else, my timing is a little bit off.  But I just have to hit some more balls.  
 
Q.  What kind of things are you going to do tonight? 
 
MONICA SELES:  I think we're all just going to sit down, our usual team thing, and talk about what we think we have to do tomorrow against Smashnova and the other player, and just discuss schedule and stuff like that, and then have dinner.  
 
Q.  Lindsay mentioned you were talking about times you had to play in hot weather.  When was the last time you played in conditions like these?
 
MONICA SELES:  Well, I got a little bit  lucky.  I don't think it was as hot when I played as when Lindsay played.  I don't think so.  Gosh, she had it rough.  The last time I played in this heat , I don't know , it would have to be Australia at some point I think   - maybe two years ago.  
 
Q.  Lindsay winning first and getting things off to a good start, how did that affect you?
 
MONICA SELES:  Oh, it was just a lot easier than last time, being already 1-0 down.  Especially, there's a lot of pressure on this tie to get back into the Group.  So for Lindsay, gosh, it's not easy coming back, playing your first match under these circumstances.  I just really give huge credit to her.  
 
Q.  Does the hard surface make it more difficult than say on grass when it's this hot out? 
 
MONICA SELES:  Yeah, definitely.  I think for me, when it's hard, I get blisters on the bottom of my feet and that's what's really frustrating.  There's not much you can do for that.  But, you know, it's for both players out there same conditions.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT