WIMBLEDON
July 1, 2002
Monica Seles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions. 


Q.  What do you think approximate your performance with Tamarine today?

MONICA SELES:  Well, I played well, was very consistent, wasn't making unforced errors.  Tami made probably more than I think she would have liked to.  So I was just happy that we got to play finally after the long delay. 

Q.  What is the reason you can guess Tamarine played not very well today?

MONICA SELES:  Well, I mean, it's not easy.  All of us have days like that.  I've had it.  It was just unfortunate it had to be today because she has played so well at Wimbledon.  I mean, I think it's her fourth or fifth in a row Round of 16, which is amazing.  You know, just one of those days.

Q.  Does rain and weather play a part?

MONICA SELES:  Definitely, that plays a part.  You have a lot of time to wait.  We couldn't practice outdoors today.  We had to go indoors.  So it changes your routine a lot.

Q.  Do you think Tamarine can come back to Wimbledon again?

MONICA SELES:  Oh, yeah, I'm sure.  I mean, gosh, she's five years in a row fourth round.  I'm sure she wants to improve upon that and get to the quarterfinals or further.

Q.  What do you think is Tamarine's strength?

MONICA SELES:  Oh, she keeps the ball very low and on grass.  It's very difficult.  Her balls come very fast.  She has great angles.  She plays very aggressively. 

Q.  Which area could she improve?

MONICA SELES:  Well, I shouldn't say that as an opponent.  I don't think it's good to do that. 

Q.  You met two times this year. 

MONICA SELES:  Yes.

Q.  First time you play , she play very tough. 

MONICA SELES:  Each match is different.  That was my 10th week in a row on the Tour.  I was very tired in that match.  You know, she and I in the past have always played close matches.  This was I think one or two breaks in each match.  Each match is different.  You can't compare them. 

Q.  As a tennis player you've seen so much in your life.  During the fortnight, a Pakistani Muslim and an Israeli Jew have been playing doubles together, drawing quite a bit of attention.  Do you think in any way tennis is special where teams from such diverse cultures can team up and come together as a single team?

MONICA SELES:  I'll stay out of this one.  I'll just answer tennis-related questions.  Sorry. 

Q.  You're in the quarterfinals now against Justine Henin, who played the final here last year.  What do you think about her?

MONICA SELES:  Well, Justine loves to play on grass.  She had her best result here.  It's a very difficult match in front of me tomorrow, and I have to play some great tennis.  You know, the best player will win.

Q.  But then you played her four times before and you won four times. 

MONICA SELES:  Yeah, but each four times has been very close.  It's been like 7-5 in the third or something like that.  You know, this is probably the surface that suits the best her game.  I know I have a very tough opponent tomorrow.  I think she wants to repeat her performance of last year and go maybe one better.  I'm just looking forward to a very tough match.

Q.  Can you talk about the difference between how players who are 25, 26, 27 experience life on tour and tennis than players who are maybe 17, 18 and 19?

MONICA SELES:  Oh, gosh, I don't know.  I mean, it's hard for me to go back to 17, 18.  I mean, obviously it's very different.  You just have a lot more responsibilities.  It depends on the player.  Some players have other people do stuff for them, other players like to do stuff themselves.  I think it varies a lot.  It just depends.

Q.  You don't notice different things about matches than when you were younger?

MONICA SELES:  Matches? 

Q.  Yeah. 

MONICA SELES:  Some players draw on experience.  In the past, when I was a young teenager, such players would beat me because they had so much experience of playing tactical tennis.  And the same probably right now, too. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT