NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 27, 2002
Monica Seles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  First question for Monica, please. 
 
 
Q.  After the first set you picked up the pace really well.  Particularly in the third set.  You felt better? 
 
MONICA SELES:  Well, I just tried to hang in there a point at a time.  Kim was playing some great tennis.  I played some great tennis too.  I think it came down to just a couple points there at the end that I won them pretty much.  
 
Q.  Looking ahead to your next match?
 
MONICA SELES:  Yeah, definitely it's going to be another tough match.  Playing Jennifer, I mean, she's been playing some great tennis this week.  And, you know, just try to get a good recovery and do the best that I can.  
 
Q.  Home-court for you both, though?  Even though you're from the west coast. 
 
MONICA SELES:  Yeah, definitely we're both Floridians and we both live about a three-hour drive from here and I think we both like the conditions, both had some good results here in the past.  It should be a great match.  
 
Q.  Do you like tough matches like this?  Before you get to a semifinal or final?  Is that good for you?
 
MONICA SELES:  Just depends how many matches you come in.  I come in here, really didn't have a break since Christmas time.  It's been a long one.  I prefer not to  -- it's been a struggle this tournament for me.  So this week, definitely not.  But sometimes when you haven't played matches you need some tough matches.  Nowadays in tennis you can't predict so you just take it day at a time, point at a time.  
 
Q.  Corina says she's hopefully going to come back some time in July and August and everything.  You've had a comeback from something, but a different type of serious.  Are you pretty impressed that she will be thinking that?
 
MONICA SELES:  Oh, it's terrific I think to see her back.  I got to see her here, and she looks terrific.  I think we're all pulling for her, you know, to come back.  And, you know, she's going to have a definitely new perspective on the game and everything.  She was always a wonderful person.  You know, I've got to know her through Fed Cup very well and just really couldn't be happier.  But I think most importantly, you know, she's in remission, and she gets to play tennis.  I think that's just a big bonus.  
 
Q.  How do you mean "new perspective"? 
 
MONICA SELES:  I think after what she went through, I'm sure she gets a new perspective on a tennis match and tennis court. 
 
Q.  Everything?
 
MONICA SELES:  I think at life, definitely.  Think at her age, what's she's had to go through it's pretty amazing.  She's a very brave young lady. 
 
Q.  Is it tough to play a tough quarterfinal and a semifinal tomorrow?
 
MONICA SELES:  Definitely.  The scheduling has been a nightmare this week.  Not just me, I think every player complained, Jennifer played about tomorrow playing second and everything.  You can't do anything about it.  This is our job, you got to take it as it comes, and, you know, that's what it is.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT