US OPEN
September 2, 2001
Monica Seles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Questions for Monica.  
 
 
Q.  She may be the best returner in tennis.  You had trouble breaking her today.  Was that a reflection on how well she served or were you not able to pick on it?
 
MONICA SELES:  Definitely she served really well, especially when she was down breakpoint.  But I just made too many errors to stay competitive.  I mean, I was having a tough time holding my serve.  She was just holding hers really easily most of the match.  
 
Q.  How disappointing is it?  You played so well this summer. 
 
MONICA SELES:  Yeah, definitely.  It was one of those matches that, gosh, didn't feel comfortable out there from the first ball hit.  She was playing really steady.  She didn't give me any free points.  She was serving really well.  I was just having a hard time finding my range with my groundstrokes.  I think I probably had a lot of unforced errors in there.  
 
Q.  Were you surprised by how quick she was from corner to corner?  Seemed like you'd try to push her around, she was able to get to everything. 
 
MONICA SELES:  No, I mean, I practice with Daja at home a few times.  I knew her game.  I knew coming into the match what to expect.  But I knew if I could stay aggressive and keep my errors down that I could be more successful against her.  Today was vice versa.  I think she was the one being aggressive and kept her errors down. 
 
Q.  Can you explain what you mean by you didn't feel comfortable out there?  Did you have a bad practice?  Was there something that happened before the match?
 
MONICA SELES:  Nothing, no.  I mean, it was just one of those days, "Gosh, I wish it didn't come today."  Just really felt  -- had a difficult time finding my range.  I was hoping to find it in the match.  Never kind of found it on my serve or on my groundstrokes.  
 
Q.  Seemed like after points where you were hitting it long or wide, you'd look down.  Were you battling yourself mentally out there, too, today?
 
MONICA SELES:  A little bit.  It's just frustrating when you have a day like today in a Grand Slam where you feel like you're making a lot of mistakes against a player that you really cannot afford to because she's so steady, she's a very good runner, you have to work very hard to win a single point.  The match is really tight.  I was just trying to not make those mistakes.  I ended up making them anyway. 
 
Q.  Does this happen sometimes, then you're able to work your way out of it?
 
MONICA SELES:  Today definitely it didn't happen.  I mean, both on my serve and on my groundstrokes and returns, just kind of everything was not going the way that I want it at least to go.  You have to give so much credit to Daja because she served so well at key times to hold off the breakpoints.  That made the match a different type. 
 
Q.  How big a setback do you think this is in the overall picture?
 
MONICA SELES:  I don't know the overall picture.  Right now it's disappointing to lose, you know, after playing so well coming into here, just really having the day that I had today at a Grand Slam is really  -- it's a tough one. 
 
Q.  You say that you practice with her at home.  Does it happen often with everybody or are you particularly friends with her?
 
MONICA SELES:  No, it was just last year before The Championships I practiced with her a few times.  She's a terrific girl.  Her father.  I knew her game, the same way she knew my game coming into the match. 
 
Q.  How long did that practice last?
 
MONICA SELES:  I have no idea. 
 
Q.  Did she call you?
 
MONICA SELES:  No.  I think my coached asked her, at that time, Bobby. 
 
Q.  Was she any different then than she was today?
 
MONICA SELES:  No, she was very tough then, too.  Obviously, she's improved.  She's improving a lot, as you can tell, this past year or so by her results and stuff like that.  She was very difficult at that stage, too. 
 
Q.  Looked very classy the way you congratulated her after.  What exactly did you say to her?
 
MONICA SELES:  I just said, "Great match.  Congratulations."  I just wished her a lot of luck.  She's really a fantastic girl. 
 
Q.  When you saw you were going to be playing her, did that worry you, knowing what you knew about her?
 
MONICA SELES:  No, no, not at all.  Really going into a match, I just try to worry about my own game, not worry so much about my opponent.  My own game let me down today. 
 
Q.  In the third set, did you feel like you were on the verge of getting the momentum or was it always kind of a fight?
 
MONICA SELES:  It was always kind of a fight, yeah.  
 
Q.  How much do you enjoy playing here?  How many more years do you think it will still hold that same pleasure for you?
 
MONICA SELES:  I really don't know.  I mean, just taking it a day at a time.  But definitely when you have matches like today, when you come out in a fourth round pretty flat, are really difficult.  Just, you know, try to learn from it and come back again.  
 
Q.  How much do you chalk that up to not having played the previous two majors?
 
MONICA SELES:  Oh, I don't think it has anything to do with it, nothing.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT