US OPEN
August 27, 2001
Monica Seles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions for Monica, please. 
 

Q.  Could you tell us your three or four favorite websites. 

MONICA SELES:  I really am not online at all.  I'm the wrong person to ask.  Zero.
 

Q.  Do you use any sort of technical device at all?

MONICA SELES:  No, none, really.  I'm really not into that at all, whatever you call those cameras that you can see people.  I'm not into that. 
 

Q.  Can you compare where your game is this summer compared to last summer coming into this tournament?

MONICA SELES:  I definitely had some better wins over the top players.  Really I played well the last three, four weeks.  You know, it's just so hard to compare because each time it's just different.  I'm a player, I forget as soon as the match is over and stuff like that.  But really happy that after not playing for a while, I could come back and play so well so soon.  Hopefully I can just improve upon that. 
 

Q.  A lot of people have written about how Lisa and your other trainers have helped you over the summer.  Can you give us a sense of what's different about your routine, how you incorporated weight training or  --?

MONICA SELES:  Really weight training, a slow distance, biking, stuff like that.  I can't do any speed stuff because of my foot.  The combination of three people, Lisa, Pat and Mike who have just been really wonderful.  That's really it.  You know, nothing different.  It's just probably doing it on a more consistent basis.

Q.  Andre talked about how he loves to train.  What is your thought?  Are you one who likes to work out?

MONICA SELES:  Once I get started, I do.  But I'm not like a person that likes to beforehand.  I love to play tennis.  Once I get started, then I definitely enjoy it.  I think the more I've been doing it, the more I'm open to that idea of kind of making it part of my lifestyle.
 

Q.  Do you find that you're working out harder now than you were when you were younger?

MONICA SELES:  No.  I worked really hard with my dad.  He was a triple jump champion, he had me do tons of track.  For a period of four or five years, I didn't really do too much stuff.  If I did, I had someone like Gavin that I did tons of work.  I only did it for three works.  It's nice to have the continuity.  To have that jump, you need to do it for long periods.  That's hopefully what I'll be able to do now. 
 

Q.  What kind of things has Mike been working out with you?

MONICA SELES:  We didn't get a chance to work on anything.  Mike came in the week of San  Diego, I've been playing every week since then.  We've been playing a lot of points.  Obviously, he's such a good player that it makes me raise the level of my game.  He hasn't tried to change anything and stuff like that, which we talked about, which I really don't feel I need changes.  I just need to be playing at a high level.  The way he plays, it's just perfect for me to get the timing down and groove.  He runs down so many balls.  He can simulate a lot of players that I'm playing.
 

Q.  Does it force you to be aggressive?

MONICA SELES:  Yeah, definitely, I mean, for sure.  That's why it's been really positive. 
 

Q.  What is your thought about the women's final being in prime time?

MONICA SELES:  I think it's terrific.  I'm a player that loves to play night matches.  You have some players who absolutely request not to, some that love it.  I'm in that group that I think it's great.  It's a great way to showcase women's tennis really at a critical time.  We have so much variety in our sport right now.  It will be nice to bring in a new fan base.  This certainly could open a lot of doors for women's tennis. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT