CHASE CHAMPIONSHIPS OF SANEX WTA TOUR
November 19, 2000
Monica Seles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Monica, you were really fighting the whole game.  I'm so proud of you?

MONICA SELES:   Thank you very much. 

Q.  The crowd, did you get any juice?

MONICA SELES:   Yeah, definitely.  Especially when I lost in the second set and still tried to come back and stay tough in the first  -- third set, sorry, for sure. 

Q.  Could you tell from that first breakpoint in the first game that this was going to be a little different than your last two meetings? 

MONICA SELES:  Well, yeah, definitely, coming out today I was hoping I would not play as badly as I had done the past few times against her.  It's just key for me to steady my nerves and really try to play the game that I play, and I got lucky there in the first set.  And then I let Martina back during the second set.  It was just too tough at the end.

Q.  How much was fatigue a factor?

MONICA SELES:   I think both of us were pretty tired at the end.  For sure.  I think both of us -- we were just talking in the locker room, we were both happy we only had to go -- we didn't have to go three out of five.

Q.  Was there a moment where you reached a wall and it was tough to push forward?

MONICA SELES:   There were probably a couple times where I reached a wall, but I knew I really wanted to win this match, and I just tried to push through it. 

Q.  You've talked about how you wouldn't here -- (inaudible) -- is there any consolation in how well you played today?

MONICA SELES:   Yeah, definitely this year has been really great.  Probably the best year since '95 or '96 I had.  It's been nice.  I also had some tough loses, both, like today to Martina, a couple like that to Venus and Lindsay.  In that sense, it has been a tough year, but in the other sense it has been really great to have that year and finish it off.  And hopefully, I have one more week in Las Vegas and just try to get up for that and then take a little break and then refocus the next year.

Q.  Where would you put this in the tough losses?  Was this the toughest one of the year because you worked so hard to get here?

MONICA SELES:   Oh, no there are a couple of tough ones.  It's kind of our fifth Grand Slam tournament.  Any time you play so long and it's a 6-4 and it's a couple of points here or there, and I've lost quite a few close matches the last couple of times, so in terms of that it has been pretty difficult.

Q.  Can you explain the difficulty of holding serve in the third set 7 out of 10 games were broken? 

MONICA SELES:   Yeah, it was really strange.  I think it is a combination of Martina returning so well and putting pressure on me, and I was probably pressing for more than I should have, and my serve broke down a little bit.  And then I knew that I have to break back, and a few times, I was able to do that, and a few times I wasn't.

Q.  Did it get to the point where it was almost a disadvantage to be serving in the third set?

MONICA SELES:   It sure seemed like it, yeah.

Q.  In that first set was that the best you played in a while?  Did it feel like it to you, that the level was  --

MONICA SELES:   I played well in Wimbledon against Lindsay the first set, and a couple of times against Venus.  So it is hard to compare.  Each match is so different, each surface is different, different circumstances.  But I definitely started off really well and that was one of my goals, and not to come out and start off like at the Open this year, and at least I achieved that part.

Q.  Your second set when you could have won the match, what was missing in your game?

MONICA SELES:   Closure.  Ah.  The story of this year.  But I think just my serve let me down a little bit and Martina picked up her game.  That's what champions do and that's why she won today and that's what I missed today.

Q.  What was so tiring, were you out of breath?  Was it your legs, was it your arms? 

MONICA SELES:   No.  I don't think I lost the match because I was tired.  Martina was simply a better player.  I was feeling fine out there.  I was trying to run to the balls and stay aggressive and stay mentally really focused on every shot.

Q.  You said no closure was the story of this year?

MONICA SELES:   This year I have lost some really tough three-set matches at some key tournaments, which I feel I should have won, at least finished the matches off against a couple of the top players.  So that would be one goal to try to work on.

Q.  Why do you think the New York fans cheer for you so? 

MONICA SELES:   I don't know.  It's been such a great thing, really, throughout my career as I mentioned  in my other press conference I don't know.  I think probably it is my game style, maybe my personality, I don't know.  But it's great. 

Q.  Can you describe at all what you felt standing on the court when it was over?  You seemed to look up and around, just what you were feeling? 

MONICA SELES:   Well, I was very emotional.  Just because, you know, you feel, gosh, this is  -- well, this is it, in terms of a tournament.  Hopefully, they will have an exhibition and, you know, you come back and stuff like that, which would be great, to be able to get a chance to play once more here.  And, you know, hopefully, maybe in four years time, you come back and the tournament will be here and obviously it was just emotional knowing that the CHAMPIONSHIPS are not going to be here for at least three years.

Q.  Will you be here if it comes back? 

MONICA SELES:   I don't know.  I mean, I just take it a day at a time, really.  So I have no idea.  As long as I enjoy it and I enjoy the challenge, definitely.  I mean, it is a game that I love, regardlessly if I played professionally or not. 

Q.  How much has your serve improved, do you think?  I've never seen you serve so well? 

MONICA SELES:   Well, I think my serve has improved this week, which was a surprise.  I really didn't do anything to take a compliment on it.  But at the same time today, at key times, it just absolutely broke down with all of those double-faults; so it was kind of like a double-edged sword.  But that's the way women's tennis is going; everybody has big serves, big girls, that I know that I have to improve that. 

Q.  When you played her in March in Miami, that was a bad match for you and a tough time to go through, did you think about that at all going into today?

MONICA SELES:   Not at all.  My feeling, always, is just really be in the present.  I mean, I don't look back at the past, don't worry about the future.  Just try to be in the moment in every part of my life, and that applies to my tennis career.

Q.  But does it make this even that much more satisfying?

MONICA SELES:   No, because that match was very different, just because I was feeling so much pain.  And maybe, looking back, it was not the smartest decision to go out, but I'm a very competitive person on court and I've wanted to give my best.  You know, it was semifinals.  A lot of people will come out to, and you just want to play, as an athlete.  And I've been off before that for probably six and a half months and I didn't want to default. So, it was definitely  -- it was one of the toughest press conferences that I had after that match, but I bounced back from it.

Q.  Now that the year is over  --

MONICA SELES:   One more week. 

Q.  Putting aside the rankings and everything, who do you look at as the best player in the women's game?

MONICA SELES:   That's a tough one.  Depends what standards you go by.  Obviously, if you go by the Grand Slams, you have to look at Venus.  If you go by the whole year and consistency at different tournament, it's Martina. 

Q.  Which standards do you go by?

MONICA SELES:   That I'll keep private.  (Laughs).

Q.  Can you talk about the upcoming Fed Cup?

MONICA SELES:   We have a very well difficult time.  I think we are playing Wednesday.  It is a very tough match.  I'm not sure how it goes under this format.  I've never played Fed Cup under this format.  So you guys have an unbelievable team with Kim Clijsters and Dominique and then Justine Henin and Els Callens.  It is going to be a very difficult match.  I think that's how we're approaching it, talking to Billie, and then the beginning of the week to Lindsay.  So we're going to get really psyched up for it, and hopefully we can defend our Fed Cup title.

Q.  Did you get more out of this week emotionally and personally than you thought you were going to? 

MONICA SELES:   Yeah, definitely.  As I say, it was just a really wonderful surprise how well I played, and just the great  -- the great feeling to have the crowd so behind me.  And it just was really a fantastic week.

Q.  The cramping, is that why you called the trainer? 

MONICA SELES:   No.  I pulled my groin.  So, that's why.

Q.  How did that affect you?

MONICA SELES:   It was fine.  It's fine. 

Q.  At what point did you do that, when you were 4-2 up? 

MONICA SELES:   I think it happened at 3-2. 

Q.  When do you start looking to 2001?  Are you going to play  Melbourne and Sydney?

MONICA SELES:   After a tough loss like today, I just kind of try to regroup, and then get up and really be focused, for, obviously Fed Cup.  After that, probably take about two weeks off, and then my year starts at Hopman Cup in Perth, and then I'm playing in Melbourne, Australian Open. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT