CHASE CHAMPIONSHIPS OF SANEX WTA TOUR
November 18, 2000
Monica Seles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  I wonder if you'll talk a little bit about your relationship with the crowds in New York in general and with the crowd here at The Garden? 
 
MONICA SELES:   I always had an amazing relationship here, I think even early in my career when a lot of other places really were not so supportive of me.  And obviously, the last couple of years that I played here has been unbelievable, and this week has -- unbelievable, amazing would be the only words I could describe.  
  

Q.  Is there any special significance to the fact that this is the last chase here at the Garden? 
 
MONICA SELES:   Definitely.  I think probably the fans are sad that it is going.  I mean, I'm sure  -- a couple of them came up to me and said, "I've been coming for the past 20 or so years," and they are sad to see, the same way that I am.  So, you know.  
  

Q.  Did you have any pain  --
 
MONICA SELES:   Really, not right now.  I have no pain at all.  
  

Q.  Why is it that the New York crowds accepted from you the beginning where others didn't? 
 
MONICA SELES:   I don't know.  I really don't know.  I don't know.  I don't know.  
  

Q.  When you started up, that was the same thing? 
 
MONICA SELES:   Yes.  Yeah.  I mean, the only time was when I played Chris Everett in her final year in the US Open, 1989, and I played Martina in that last match that she was maybe retiring, but she played another two great years.  And Jennifer, yes.  I'm sorry, yes.  Thank you.  
  

Q.  You haven't played very much the last few weeks; have you ever served better in your career?
 
MONICA SELES:   Not as consistently as I've done, really the last three matches.  I've really been serving well and it has pulled me out of a couple tough situations.  But maybe subconsciously I know I have to, because before I knew I could much more on my groundstrokes and I haven't been able to rely on them as well now.  So I'm going more for my serve.  Maybe that's a good thing. 
  

Q.  There were times you were a little irritated with yourself that you weren't so; did you do anything specifically to change it?
 
MONICA SELES:   There was a time this year where I tried really hard to work on it, and really, I think it confused me a bit, and then my coach and I just decided, just, you know, serve what feels natural to me, and I think maybe that has helped. But even still this year at the Open I think my serve was the one that let me down. 
  

Q.  What does this opportunity mean to you, the chance to win here, be in the Final? 
 
MONICA SELES:   It's fantastic and I'm playing the No. 1 player in the world, so, it really couldn't be a better stage to play.  Just hopefully tomorrow when I wake up, I feel really good, no pain or aches, and just look forward to playing.  I mean, it's a fantastic chance.  What more could you ask for as a tennis player. 
  

Q.  You watched Dementieva play yesterday.  Were you surprised that you came out so strongly? 
 
MONICA SELES:   Well, I knew Elena, I watched her actually two times against Venus both.  So I knew she was a huge fighter and she comes out fast.  I tried to just really not worry about what she will do and just focus on my side and just play every point as competitively as I could, and I really didn't put any emphasis on coming out strong or not.  Just really try to be very competitive, as I said, on every single ball. 
  

Q.  You had a tough stretch against Martina the last six matches or so, what do you need to do tomorrow to extend that? 
 
MONICA SELES:   As always Martina is very consistent.  She doesn't make any unforced errors.  Her game has probably not suited my game the best.  I think -- well, we did play on this surface.  She has beaten me quite easily.  So, I'm just going to have to go out there and play the best tennis that I can.  
  

Q.  Are you ready for five sets?
 
MONICA SELES:   Unfortunately, we're not playing five sets.  I had the same question, too.  I really wish we were, though. 
  

Q.  Elena said yesterday that she learned about tennis by watching your matches with Steffi.  How does that make you feel and did you see anything in her game that is like Steffi's?  
 
MONICA SELES:  The only thing I have to say is she moves as well as Steffi.  Really, her movement is one of her great attributes.  Obviously Steffi had a very unique forehand and slice.  But I think she is very strong mentally, she seems very focused, very one-set minded like Steffi was.  So that's a fantastic attribute and she really wants to be the best player out there. 
  

Q.  Is it any extra added incentive for you because of what you've said over the last couple of days that you will not play next year before tomorrow's match, is that any incentive?
 
MONICA SELES:   No.  I mean, it's not in my nature, really.  I'm just going to go out there and play it as another match that I really want to win, because it's the CHAMPIONSHIPS.  It's, your last, kind of tournament of the season and it has been a great week up to now, and I really would like to end on a high note. 
  

Q.  Did you get a bit of satisfaction out of beating an up-and-coming player?
 
MONICA SELES:   When I step on the court, I really don't worry what age they are or, you know, how they look or what shot they hit.  I just worry about what the ball comes at me and really, that's all I ever care about.  
  

Q.  You mentioned Elena's sort of single-mindedness.  Do you feel your mental aspect has been the same over the years or do you feel like it is sharper now than at other times?
 
MONICA SELES:   I definitely had that until 1993.  And obviously, 1993 not playing for two and a half years, I lost some of it.  And then I had bits and pieces when it has come back.  And then I had a couple of difficult two and a half years there.  So I think first time since 1993, this year, that I really didn't have any very serious distractions in my life, and it has been really nice to just concentrate on tennis and enjoy the game once more, like I did in the early 90s. 
  

Q.  Do you notice a difference with your concentration on the court?
 
MONICA SELES:  Definitely.  I still had a few lapses against a few players that I wish I didn't.  As I perfectionist, you always try to improve, but I don't want to be so strict on myself.  But, for sure.  Definitely.  I mean, my mind has stayed on the court a lot longer than before, when I was real not sure if I wanted to be on the court or be somewhere else. 
  

Q.  Your record this year indicates you were losing against the players ranked above and you were winning consistently against the players below.  Is that a goal for next year to beat them? 
 
MONICA SELES:   Well, definitely, but you also  -- you can't underestimate the players who are below you, because they keep betting better.  Like Elena, two years ago, we never heard of Elena, and you look at her now she is a Top-5 contender.  And you see Anna improving tremendously over the last couple of months.  And I could name like four or five other girls.  Definitely, for sure, for me, I have to play a lot better against the top three, four girls.  And I had some tough three-set loses against them, and some of them have been physical, some mental and some probably a combination of both. 
  

Q.  Do you ever think about what if Hamburg didn't happen?
 
MONICA SELES:   Not really.  The only thing, maybe I thought why in my career, why I had to play tennis, so many things happen while for other athletes, they can just focus on tennis and be single-minded.  And maybe why it happened to me so young because; it definitely took a part of my innocence away.  But I think everything happens for a reason, the good and the bad, and you just move on from it.  
  

Q.  Who is the favorite tomorrow?
 
MONICA SELES:   I mean, you definitely have to favor Martina.  Obviously, she is the No. 1 player.  She has beaten me in the past, but every match is different.  I don't try to think about the past or the future, just really stay in the present, and that's all that I can ask of myself.  
  

Q.  When the tournament started, did you realistically think that you would still be here for the Final? 
 
MONICA SELES:   No, not really.  No.  Really, I knew I had a tough match against Sandrine and that was really a surprise win.  But also, I was lucky that she had not played in a while.  Both of us were kind of rusty; so it has been a very nice surprise.  I don't plan to do this more often, to kind of get too confident that even with this little practice that you can play well. So, I want to go back to my usual ways and just hope my body is going to hold up for, you know, the starting, from January on.  
  

Q.  Exactly how much practice did you have prior to this event? 
 
MONICA SELES:   I started practicing, I think, last Thursday or Friday. 
  

Q.  You weren't able to do anything before that?
 
MONICA SELES:   Not really. 
  

Q.  For how long? 
 
MONICA SELES:   Since at the default in Tokyo, which I think was last week of September or first week of October, I'm not sure.  
  

Q.  Players in the past have complained about the schedule, especially at this time of year, they say that they have to play so much.  Since you've been with all of us so long, what's your opinion on the scheduling? 
 
MONICA SELES:   Really, from the first time I came on the Tour, we were playing, I think the 13, 14 tournaments, and we thought it was way too much. And if you look back at like Steffi's and my schedule, we only played 10, 11.  And then the last four or five years, we've been playing 18, and most girls are playing 25 tournaments.  I hope, just for the longevity of the girls and the Tour, that it's going to be taken down already.  They have made steps next year it is the best of 17.  So I think they are going in a good direction. But it's very difficult because women's tennis is so popular now and tournaments all want us to play everywhere, and it is difficult just to say no.  And I think the Tour is struggling with that, but I do think the Tour is going in the right direction.  
  

Q.  How much does it help when you are in New York and you have the fans rooting for you like that the way they were today?
 
MONICA SELES:   Well, it definitely helps a lot, especially when the match gets close like today when it can go either way and my concentration disappears for one or two games and Elena is back in the match.  And then a couple people yell out certain things, and that really helps me refocus, because I'm a player that has to stay focused out there to play really good tennis.  Thank you. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT