US OPEN
September 5, 2000
Monica Seles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MODERATOR: Questions for Monica.  
 
Q. Were you nervous during the first set, or did it just take you a while to warm up
and get on track?
 
 MONICA SELES: Well, I really didn't feel nervous going out there, but I think my game
definitely showed that I was nervous for sure.  
 
Q. How disappointing is the result? You haven't had much success with the players
ranked above you. 
 
 MONICA SELES: Not so many just in general, but just really the way I played today. I
really started off the match very sluggishly. I tried to get back into it in the end, but
it was way too late. I just have to look at why that keeps happening.  
 
Q. How sharp did she seem to you?
 
 MONICA SELES: I mean, I really don't know because my balls were flying all over the
place and I was just worried, "Gosh, I better collect myself." What she was
doing wasn't even entering my mind at all really till the middle of the second set.  
 
Q. Why do you think your game has a tough time matching up with Martina's?
 
 MONICA SELES: I really don't know. I really don't know. I mean, obviously she -- I
don't know. I really don't know right now.  
 
Q. How do you feel about your conditioning? Do you feel like you're in shape?
 
 MONICA SELES: Yeah, definitely.  
 
Q. Did you get any sense before you started that you wouldn't get off to a fast start?
 
 MONICA SELES: No, huh-uh, not at all. I really didn't do anything differently than my
previous matches. Just really once I lost that first game, I was like, "Wow, I'm
really miss-timing them majorly today." Maybe I panicked a bit. Against Martina,
you're not going to get any free points. I started making so many unforced errors and the
set was gone probably in 10, 15 minutes.  
 
Q. Is she particularly tough to come back on?
 
 MONICA SELES: Definitely. I just really had to work hard to come back there in the
second set and just fight and try somehow to calm my own game down. That's where the whole
trouble started. 
 
Q. You say you had all the tools in the second set, when you broke her. 
 
 MONICA SELES: At least I was not giving her free points, as many as I was in the first
set. I was at least trying to play a little bit of normal tennis like I'm capable of. 
 
Q. How would you assess your year?
 
 MONICA SELES: Right now I really have not given an ounce of thought on it. I'd just
have to give a quick answer. I'd rather not do that. 
 
Q. You've played Martina so many times on hard courts the last couple years. Where is
her game on hard courts as she moves into the semifinals, do you think?
 
 MONICA SELES: It's hard to say. She's not a power player compared to like Venus and
Serena. Obviously her serve is not as strong. But I think her sense of the game and her
consistency is better than Serena's and Venus'. I think the next match should be really
interesting. They're probably the two best players playing, then Serena and Lindsay on the
other end.  
 
Q. I know you said you didn't want to assess your year, but would it make your year to
win a medal in Sydney?
 
 MONICA SELES: Well, I mean, right now really it's hard for me to think. I know we leave
a week from today. Right now I'm really disappointed with tonight, just working so hard to
get to the quarters. I'm not that happy with my game that was there tonight.  
 
Q. What did it take mentally to get into that second set? Was it a matter of getting
mad at yourself?
 
 MONICA SELES: No. I think really just to calm myself down and not get flustered that
the first set was gone so fast. I mean, you have days that your timing is off. But against
her, I seem to have more days like that than I should have. I just said, "Okay,
really just try to stay in the match." My timing got a little better, but even really
in the second set I still miss-timed a lot of balls, and really she made a couple of
unforced errors at key times and let me back into the match. 
 
Q. Do you remember the last time a first set got away from you like that?
 
 MONICA SELES: Oh, yeah, I played Venus in San Diego. Also I lost 6-Love.  
 
Q. What about the sense of support you got today?
 
 MONICA SELES: That was really terrific. They were trying so hard to get me into the
match. Really truly it helped. I think I just kept on fighting. I could have said,
"Oh, gosh, this is really bad. It can only get worse. Just bag it in." But at
least I kept fighting, got a better second set.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT