WIMBLEDON
July 4, 2000
Monica Seles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 
 
 
Q.  Did the energy levels drain away after that mammoth sixth game in the second set?  Nine breakpoints you saved. 
 
MONICA SELES:  Definitely my energy level wasn't the same in the third set as in the first and second set.  I think that was the last service game that I held there.  
 
Q.  What is the lesson you learned from this match?
 
MONICA SELES:  It's so hard because I just literally came off the court, took a shower, and that has been it.  It would be such an instinct to say something now.  It was such an intense match.  
 
Q.  How does Lindsay's level seem to you?
 
MONICA SELES:  I mean, it's hard.  But last time I played Lindsay was in Scottsdale.  I never played her on grass.  But compared to the other players I played, obviously so much stronger.  Her serve I think is a huge advantage.  She's definitely playing very good tennis, I think solid tennis.  
 
Q.  How far was it a question of fitness today, would you say?
 
MONICA SELES:  Well, that's hard to say.  I mean, I'm still trying to make improvements there.  I still have a long way to go.  I think the little I improved, I already feel better.  There's still a long way to go.  
 
Q.  Are you still working with Bob Kersey?
 
MONICA SELES:  Yes. 
 
Q.  How often is that happening?
 
MONICA SELES:  I don't see Bobby, because he has other stuff to do, but there's a person who works with Bobby who works with me, and he's always with me. 
 
Q.  Did you really feel this was going to be your year here?
 
MONICA SELES:  No, that hasn't crossed my mind ever, any of the years, any tournament ever.  You just try to take it a match at a time.  There's no different mind pattern here.  
 
Q.  Can you predict a winner now?
 
MONICA SELES:  It's so hard to say.  I mean, I don't know if Lindsay and Jelena have played each other before.  She has been the quiet player who got to the semis.  Obviously the Williams sisters, both of them played some fantastic tennis today. I mean, I think the final should be very exciting. 
 
Q.  Are you very proud of your intensity in that first set, maybe playing some of the best tennis of the tournament?
 
MONICA SELES:  I definitely played the best tennis of the tournament, definitely.  You have to keep that up a little bit longer.  
 
Q.  In the second set, you saved two set points, then you were unlucky.  How would you comment about that game?
 
MONICA SELES:  Well, I think in the second set, really at that 3-All game, my serve kind of a touch bit deserted me.  I had to put in a lot of second serves.  As soon as I did that, Lindsay would just pound on me.  I was starting on the defense then.  That's one area that at least my serve didn't break down as much as it used to.  That's at least an encouragement.  
 
Q.  You have nine Grand Slams.  Do you feel time is slipping away for the one that would be kind of nice to have?
 
MONICA SELES:  I'm going to repeat myself always.  It would be fantastic to win.  At this point, at this moment, I'm not even thinking about that.  
 
Q.  You're not even thinking about it?
 
MONICA SELES:  At this point, no, huh-uh.  
 
Q.  You'll still be back for another Wimbledon?
 
MONICA SELES:  I can't say.  If it's up to me, I will.  You never know.  I'll do my best, for sure.  
 
Q.  Was there a point in the match where you felt you would win, where you could win?
 
MONICA SELES:  I don't really try to go forward or back in the match.  I just try to stay in the present.  Especially on grass, the points are so quick.  One or two serves can change.  Playing someone like Lindsay, who has a big serve, you have to be there every second.  My mind did not wander at all.  
 
Q.  Having become American, is the 4th of July anything special to you?
 
MONICA SELES:  It is, definitely, yeah.  
 
Q.  In which aspect?
 
MONICA SELES:  In every aspect.  I think it's just a celebration that all Americans  -- it's a huge holiday.  I've adopted it.  I've lived there for the past 15 years of my life .  Never home usually for 4th of July.  
 
Q.  What aspect of your game would you most like to work on now?
 
MONICA SELES:  There are a few things.  I mean, I don't want to say.  I think that's for me to do.  That's the challenge I have I think the next couple of months, to just keep working on them, try to keep making improvements.  
 
Q.  You've said in many press conferences how much you're enjoying tennis.  Is that still very much the case?
 
MONICA SELES:  Oh, yeah.  I really would not be here.  I have no other reason to be here. 
 
Q.  You really are enjoying it?
 
MONICA SELES:  Uh-huh, yeah. 
 
Q.  In the commentaries, when you took the toilet break or the break, they say it's a strategic thing somebody does.  Is it a strategic weapon?
 
MONICA SELES:  Really not.  I personally took it because I really needed to go to the bathroom.  I had for the past three games.  Our new rules say you can only go at the end of each set.  At that point, before we left for the court, they ask you, If you want to take a change of shirts, take them with you.  I guess Martina didn't get a chance to do that.  I thought I might as well change my shirt.  It worked well in the past.  I've done it against Mary.  I didn't do well.  Maybe some players have used it.  I haven't yet.  
 
Q.  Did you feel the crowd was on your side today?
 
MONICA SELES:  The crowd was terrific.  I think they're really trying to stay with me, even if I was down 5-Love.  They were cheering.  That's a great feeling to have.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT