WIMBLEDON
June 29, 2000
Monica Seles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Monica Seles. 


Q. Patrick was in here not too long ago.  He's come off an injury; Pete is having his problems; Andre; you; Davenport.  The question was, is the season too long?  Is this part of the problem the top players are facing now?

MONICA SELES:  I definitely think the season is too long.  But I've been on our committee in '90, we had the same issue then, saying the season was too long.  I think luckily for our tour, we're shortening it next year, 2001, by almost a month.  Hopefully that will help.  I mean, just if you look at other sports, I have friends in other sports, they have a much more of an off-time.  I think in the long run, it's beneficial.  Hopefully tennis will change. 

Q. How important is Wimbledon for you?  Will you exchange your title in other Grand Slams to have just one Wimbledon?

MONICA SELES:  I love Wimbledon.  Obviously I would love to do well here.  It's a challenge every year that I keep facing, trying to do well here.  Exchanging titles, I mean, I wouldn't exchange anything in my life.  But I love coming back here.  I love the surroundings.  I mean, I just wish the surface suited more my game.  Besides that, I love the place. 

Q. It was reported today that women's mothers are going to be banned from the locker room before matches.  Do you think that's a good thing for players?

MONICA SELES:  Well, I think that's what the WTA committee decided.  I was in on that meeting.  I definitely think so.  I think the locker room is for players only.  I felt that ten years ago.  I finally think we've made a decision on it.

Q. Have you ever had any experience yourself of being distracted in that way before playing?

MONICA SELES:  Not distracted.  I mean, you know, my mom was different.  She would not come into the locker room.  I can't say.  I just think it's a good decision. 

Q. Are you working with anyone specifically for this fortnight, helping you with your grass court game?

MONICA SELES:  No.  I still have my coach Bobby that's been helping me.  I talk to Mary Joe a lot.  I talk to Billie, Martina a little bit.

Q. You were talking about friends in other sports.  I know you go to hockey games.  Do you go to any other type games?

MONICA SELES:  I've got into a little bit more baseball.  Hockey I truly only go if I know some members on the team pretty much.  I love basketball.  I just love sports in general.  It's fun to watch. 

Q. Do you go to Devil Rays?

MONICA SELES:  Never been to one yet.  I hope to go.  That's one I haven't been yet.  Been to the Buccaneers, but no Devil Rays. 

Q. Can you tell us about your training regime?

MONICA SELES:  It's really nothing new.  It's really consistent for the first time in my life that I have no gaps of weeks going by and not doing it.  I think that's why I've been seeing such an improvement in it, being also injury-free and so on.  My main goal is now to just keep going at this rate.  It's a very moderate rate; nothing extraordinary.  It's a very simple thing.  That's why I think it suits my personality and why I keep seeing results.

Q. Do you work out in the gym?

MONICA SELES:  Yes, I started to.

Q. How many hours a day?

MONICA SELES:  I don't go by hours at all.  We pretty much have a program that I do - one day for my shoulders, next day for my legs.  I love to run.  With my stress fracture that I had that I was off for a while, I have to be careful.  Now I alternate with fast walking more than running.

Q. Some of the women players are concentrating on building up big muscles.  Do you think that's something you also are concentrating on?

MONICA SELES:  I think genetically we have a certain body type.  I think there's a certain limit to building ourselves up with being health conscious in that effort.  So my body type is really not like huge, bulky.  I think you can get a lean-muscled look.  I think every athlete is totally individual. 

Q. Having been on the circuit many years, can you talk about your level of motivation, whether it becomes more difficult?

MONICA SELES:  Oh, no, it's become so much easier the last few months, I can't tell you, for the first time probably since '93.  I'm not sure what to do with it.  It's so nice to have that feeling.  That's why I just want to keep going and just try to keep building and really have it kind of like this, like the last few months.  I think my tennis is going to be better; I'm going to feel better as a person.

Q. Is that merely because of the conditioning that you've been able to get in or anything else?

MONICA SELES:  No.  Just a lot of things.  My life, for whatever reason, different stages, different things came in.  Some were public, some were not public.  The conditioning was more of a decision for me to make, "I'm going to do it or I'm not going to."  Going halfway back and forth, it was just really stupid.  Bobby and my mom were really instrumental in that, to get someone kind of that's going to be with me all the time.  That's one area that I do need a push.  In tennis, I love to play.  You don't need to push me.  But in the beginning, I think with workouts, I needed a bit of a push.

Q. Is there mentally a reason you feel refreshed and motivated?

MONICA SELES:  I think a lot of less stuff in your head that take up so much space.  It's nice not to have that.  It's nice to be able to focus on the practise ahead or the match ahead.  It's just a much clearer state of mind.

Q. Are you saying that you are as motivated as you've ever been?

MONICA SELES:  Oh, yes, I think so.

Q. Are you surprised by that?  It's been a hard road getting back to that. 

MONICA SELES:  No.  I think just because really I had such a clean slate till '93.  My life had been so much tennis, my focus.  A few things here were coming into it, the war happening where I was born, a few outside things.  Then obviously after the stabbing, things became different.  When I came back, there was the euphoria of the six months, then my father's illness, other things happening.  Tennis became not as important.  I think as it was.  There was no way to fit it in, even if I tried to.  I think subconsciously my mind didn't want to be there a lot of times.  To be the best or to try to be the best player, you really have to give it a hundred percent focus.  You see that with all the players.

Q. Were you fearful you'd never get it back or you knew it would come eventually?

MONICA SELES:  I knew I would have it back because really it was none of my things that were causing it.  Those things aren't things you can control.  You feel that certain things you have to do.  Again, I just hoped that somehow it's going to work out, that it won't be there.  It did.  But also came a point where I had to make a decision to myself.

Q. How did you go about ejecting these bad things from your head?

MONICA SELES:  Just life simplified itself.  Some things just worked out on their own


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT