TMS - FORO ITALICO
May 18, 2000
Monica Seles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Monica, you almost lost the first set against Maleeva and you did lose the first set
today. What's the problem, slow starting or what?

MONICA SELES: I think it's a combination of two things, slow starting and maybe being a
little bit tired, I think not playing as aggressively. Both matches, the first set really
I was just kind of staying in, and Sidot ran away with a couple of games there after I was
up, and then I think I got a little bit frustrated with myself and said, "Well, just
try to play your game." That's why I think the second and third set was a lot better.

Q. What's the problem with your serve? Is it a problem of timing or rhythm?

MONICA SELES: I'm just trying to change my serve a little bit and it's been going on
for quite a few weeks now and I'm trying not to make it -- it's not an issue. But it's
just not where it is. But I really want to stick with it because I really feel I can get a
better serve. But it's very difficult because as soon as the match -- I serve differently
than in practice. But that's one reason I decided really that -- where did I play --
Hilton Head, when I served all those double-faults, that I'm just going to stick with this
and that's my mindset, so we'll see.

Q. You've been talking about this new service action for a long time now. In Indian
Wells you talked about it.

MONICA SELES: Yeah, well that's where it started. (Laughing.)

Q. It's giving topsy-turvy results?

MONICA SELES: Yes, definitely.

Q. Then winning a tournament in the middle?

MONICA SELES: Well, I don't know. I mean each match is different. I think when I played
Martina, it was a totally different circumstance, or winning Amelie or losing to Mary. I
would not put it on my serve. But I do feel I want to improve my serve. I mean we talked a
lot with my coach about this and had a lot of conversations and we still keep talking. I
really want to stick with this. So, you know...

Q. How long are you going to persist with the experiment? Are you going to give up
before Roland Garros or not?

MONICA SELES: No, I'm going to go through with this. I mean I just really don't want to
make it an issue, trust me, because it's -- I think about it and everything. But I really
don't want to put more emphasis on it because I have seen that it just gets worse. My
theory is just keep practicing on it. That's one of the reasons I decided to play doubles
here, to serve under pressure situations. And just keep serving more and more serves, and
I think I'll get more comfortable with it.

Q. Monica, please explain exactly what this technical change is. I wasn't in Indian
Wells, so I don't know. Tell me if it's the toss, the grip, whatever.

MONICA SELES: No, it's like four or five things.

Q. All together, okay.

MONICA SELES: Yes, all together. All the things that really my coach and I feel get me
a better serve. I mean, I feel I can go back any time to my old serve and, you know, if my
serve really starts going bad I'm going to go back because I know I have that serve in my
pocket, but I'm trying to weather the storm through because I really want to have a bigger
serve. I think to compete with the girls, you need to have a bigger first serve and at my
height, at five-ten, I need to change my technique and then a few things, shoulder turns.
But for so many years you serve a certain way, so your rhythm is a certain way and now you
suddenly are changing it and sometimes everything just goes off and goes into no rhythm.

Q. Do you think you might be reduced to serving underarm like Hingis did last year at
Roland Garros?

MONICA SELES: I didn't see her serves, so I don't know. I've never done it, so I don't
think so.

Q. What are you looking for most, Monica, as you go towards Roland Garros? Is it
consistency in your game or what?

MONICA SELES: Really consistency. I mean I played pretty consistently this year, but
then I had some weird matches against some good players that I really wished it was just
the other way around. So probably improvement on that, and I'll have a good week of
preparations there. Really I'm just happy that I got to play this tournament coming in,
because it's a lot of pressure, I think, when you just play Paris. I think that's really
it.

Q. Monica, when you are off court now, you do different things from what you used to do
five years ago, let's say, or exactly the same? I mean nothing has changed, you're more
mature, things like that?

MONICA SELES: No, I pretty much do the same things. Rome, for me, was very hard to come
back to because I had -- two years ago it was a very difficult time. So I really wanted to
come back this year just to pass through that hurdle. And besides that, this week I really
have done the same things, and it's been great. So really most of the year, too, I mean
obviously a few tournaments I didn't have anyone with me, then I stay more in. But if I
had my coach or my mom or someone with me, then I do the same things.

Q. Monica, there are two Top 10 players who won the French Open, you and Arantxa
Sanchez. Do you think the example of Steffi last year could inspire one of you -- you?

MONICA SELES: Well, there's four years between Steffi and I, so I have four more years
to do it. I can't speak for Arantxa, I can just speak for myself. To me, I just enjoy
playing tennis. I take it each match at a time. If something like that happens, fantastic.
For me, the biggest things in tennis are Grand Slams, which every one you win it's
fantastic. That's one of the reasons, I think, that keeps me really wanting to push myself
and try to get better. So I hope that answers your question.

Q. If everything's working properly for you, do you regard Roland Garros as being
winnable again for you?

MONICA SELES: Well, I mean realistically my best chances are there, the Open and
Australia. But I heard the courts are very fast in Australia this year, the surface is the
same. I think the least chance I have in my career is Wimbledon. So in terms of that, all
those three Grand Slams are the best chances, so...

Q. But not the French more than any other?

MONICA SELES: I really don't believe so. I believe those three are equal. But
Wimbledon, definitely, I think I have a lot less of a chance.

Q. Can you tell me something about the fashion of this tournament and the city?

MONICA SELES: What do you mean the fashion of the tournament?

Q. The people, the arena, the place.

MONICA SELES: Okay. Well, I mean obviously Rome and Foro Italico holds a very special
place in my heart because ten years ago I really won my first tournament when I beat
really my idol, Martina, and then went on and just had a fantastic year. It changed my
life in a lot of ways. I've gotten to meet quite a lot of friends here in Rome. I had
some, you know, sad memories also from Rome in some ways, but I always love coming back
here. I come back here sometimes just to visit, too, which is much better than when you're
playing, when you have all the pressure. So it's one of my favorite places, obviously,
really in the world I would have to say.

Q. Until '93 you were winning all the Grand Slams with the exception of Wimbledon. Do
you ever find yourself on occasion looking back and thinking "what if"?

MONICA SELES: I think there are definitely times when I say, gosh, why did that have to
happen, if I continued my record would be very different than it is now in terms of
history for sure. But that did happen, and, you know, you can't change that. So from that
point of view, yes and no.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT