TMS - THE ERICSSON OPEN
March 29, 2000
Monica Seles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 WTA: Questions for Monica.  
 
Q. How do you feel about your shape?
 
 MONICA SELES: I feel fine. I mean, I think my leg just a little bit is not where I
would want it to be. Besides that, I feel pretty good the last few tournaments. 
 
Q. What exactly did you o?
 
 MONICA SELES: I slightly sprained my ankle. 
 
Q. During this tournament?
 
 MONICA SELES: Just before it started.  
 
Q. You obviously have times out there where you're putting it together quite nicely.
Can you talk about the state of where you are?
 
 MONICA SELES: I had two really key matches that were tough for me, I think playing Lisa
and then playing Anna. It was good to come out today again against Amy who played well. It
was a very strange match, I must say. Just to play through them, I feel really good. I
mean, obviously if I play Martina or Amanda - I mean, if I play Martina, it's going to be
a different level, what she and Lindsay are playing right now.  
 
Q. At certain points you were 6-Love, 2-Love up. You certainly lost the concentration. 
 
 MONICA SELES: Yes, definitely. I didn't really expect to be that fast up 6-Love,
2-Love. The crowd was very different today, I must say, just during second serves, yelling
for both of us. My mind wandered off. Thank God I quickly got it back at key times in the
second set.  
 
Q. How many tournaments are you going to play before the French Open?
 
 MONICA SELES: Amelia, Hilton Head and just Rome in Europe.  
 
Q. How far do you feel you are? Obviously at this point it's Lindsay and Martina. How
far do you think you remember?
 
 MONICA SELES: I've been playing really well against everyone else this year. I
definitely had a tough time against Lindsay and Martina. Everyone else did, too. I mean, I
know what I need to do. I just have to do it.  
 
Q. You do know what you need to do?
 
 MONICA SELES: Yeah, I do know.  
 
Q. So I must ask, what do you think you need to do?
 
 MONICA SELES: I think it's so obvious. But anyway, I need to improve a few things for
sure. The way I think Lindsay improved a lot the last two years, Martina also. I think
Martina keeps working just as hard as two years ago. So hopefully that will push me
consistently throughout a year, not just months at a time. Hopefully I have better
results.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT