TMS - THE ERICSSON OPEN
March 27, 2000
Monica Seles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How do you feel after three matches in this tournament?

MONICA SELES: I feel really good. I mean, tonight was a really tough test mentally and
physically out there and I played really well. It was a seesaw match. I feel fine. I am
looking forward to my next opponent, Amy, I think, tomorrow, day after tomorrow.

Q. In the second set was it a physical problem, did you get a little tired or she
played better?

MONICA SELES: I think my serve got down and I kept breaking her, but I lost, I think
three service games in a row. That is what has been happening a lot in Indian Wells when I
played lot of players. Against a few players like Martina and Lindsay you are not going to
get away with it. Anna didn't allow me to get away with it in the second set too.

Q. In a way you think she let you get away with some things that she had a lot of
errors, a lot of double faults?

MONICA SELES: Yeah, depended. She just came out with unbelievable winners that I am not
used to seeing from her. It was a very seesaw match. I made also some really stupid
errors, I felt, to let her back into the match in the second set when it should have been
a different match. But it was a tough match to play mentally too because we came out
really late. It was a very hyped up match and everything so it was one of those matches
that you just try to do the best that you can that day.

Q. What happened in the third set?

MONICA SELES: Well, I think tried to regroup and I knew -- I am returning well, but I
just got to put in my serve somehow. Thank God I did put it in at key times. It was a lot
of 30-All games. I just said to myself: Just do the best that you can and do put so much
pressure on yourself regarding your serve. It worked.

Q. Are you surprised she didn't show a little more fight in that last set. I think the
key was when I had the two breaks - that was huge; 'til that point she was fighting as
much as she could. Once I was up 3-Love then I held to go up 4-Love. That is a tough
comeback against anybody.
Q. If you had to go out on a limb how many Slams do you think she will win by the time
her career is over?

MONICA SELES: I have absolutely no idea tonight.

Q. Do you think -- put it another way, do you think she will soon become a threat to
reach the finals of Slams?

MONICA SELES: I think everything time will only tell.

Q. Do you feel you are moving as well before the stress fracture?

MONICA SELES: I am moving well. My foot is still not where it should be. But I still
just -- it is not where it should be, I am just waiting for it to be where it is.

Q. Pain or not comfortable?

MONICA SELES: At this point I have some pain but it is a different type of pain on my
foot that I have. I have another problem on it that happened a few days ago, but the
trainers have been taping it really well and I have been giving them a headache with it
because they probably retaped me about four, five times, but it has been working and right
now I am very happy with it.

Q. Have you seen Steffi at all during?

MONICA SELES: Yes, I saw Steffi couple nights ago. I talked to her and everything.

Q. Did she seem to be pretty happy?

MONICA SELES: It is very hard for that meeting to tell. She does seem to be very happy
and it is great to see that.

Q. Approach the third set in a match like this, do you have a sense because of what you
have experienced confidence that maybe you could be more mentally tough than Anna
basically?

MONICA SELES: No, not at all. You just try to win every point that is in front of you.
If you don't, then just look forward to the next point.

Q. Your interest in people, concern for the good life and so forth. An interesting
issue came up in Serena's press conference when someone pointed out that the NAACP was
launching a campaign to not have events in South Carolina because they put --

MONICA SELES: Please don't ask me those questions. It is 11:30. I just had a long day,
please, next time. That is fine, but -- it is another hour of me waiting for treatment.

Q. Do you think her problems in the third set are conditioning related or mental
related?

MONICA SELES: I don't think really both. It is just that there are a few players right
now are better than she is and she is a very hard worker. I think that is going to change.
Same way changed for Martina and Lindsay. And if she improves a few things which I think
she will, because I think she wants to and she is a very big fighter. I think for Anna
physically that is not a problem. I think she is one of the best movers out there. There
are a few things in her game. I think she knows very well what they are, like I know what
they are in my game. Lindsay knows in her game. If you are a professional, you know that
it's just a question can each one improve it. Lindsay improved it. Martina did. That is
where they are. It is going to be up to Anna, myself, and 10 other players if we will or
if we wouldn't.

Q. Consistency, that is a problem?

MONICA SELES: I wouldn't say that is her problem myself. But I rather keep that to
myself what I think she needs to improve.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT