TMS - THE ERICSSON OPEN
March 24, 2000
Monica Seles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







WTA: Questions for Monica. 

Q. As the tournament goes on, you're going to face bigger and bigger servers. How do
you prepare for that?

MONICA SELES: Their serves? 

Q. Yes. 

MONICA SELES: It's a very windy tournament, a lot windier than it was last year. The
court is playing pretty fair. I think the speed is pretty good. That should help. We'll
see my next match. She's a good server. It will be a good test.

Q. Do you do anything in practice to face a big server?

MONICA SELES: I try to have someone serve bigger serves pretty much so I get the better
timing.

Q. Some people have likened the WTA to a soap opera the last few years. Do you think
that's a fair comparison?

MONICA SELES: I think definitely women's tennis has gotten so much coverage besides
what's happening on the tennis court. I think that's great. It attracted so many fans and
people who usually would not read tennis magazines, but would read People, magazines like
that. That's really good because tennis players are more widely known. 

Q. Do you think the complexion of the tour has changed over the years?

MONICA SELES: Definitely. There's such a variety of different personalities, game
styles. Before you used to have one or two. There was a point where you had four or five.
But for a number of years, you had one or two. You have different athletes covering
different demographics right now.

Q. Do you think there's a time where there could be too much emphasis on off-the-court
stuff?

MONICA SELES: Hopefully that won't be the most important part of it, but I think it's
human nature. It's why People and some other magazines have a high circulation. That's
what people are interested in.

Q. Anytime you've been amused about what you've read?

MONICA SELES: No, no. 

Q. Can you talk a bit about how since you started on the tour the amount of money
that's available to players for off-court endorsements and that kind of thing has really
kind of grown exponentially. 

MONICA SELES: I think for the top players, you always were doing well financially, if
you compare it to 1990s or early '90s. It was just that one or two players were doing
financially well, which I think now you probably have four or five players who are doing
well off-court financially, not just on court. Definitely the prize money has grown. It
has not grown as much as I think all the players would like, that's for sure. If you look
at what you won in '95 compared to what you won this year, it's not a huge difference.
That's one thing we had in our council meeting two days about. But I think it's going in
the right direction. That's a good thing.

Q. I'm talking about more off-court. 

MONICA SELES: I think so, definitely. There seems to be more for more players. Before I
think if you were not 1 or 2 in the world, there was not too many opportunities off-court.
Now there seems to be four or five players who are doing much better earning-wise
off-court than on-court.

Q. Does it surprise you sometimes when you look at the numbers, millions of dollars,
compared to ten years ago?

MONICA SELES: In terms of off-court earnings? 

Q. Yes. 

MONICA SELES: They're pretty close to where they are, I think. They've gone up, but
inflation has gone up. If you compare dollar for dollar, it's pretty close to what they're
paying right now. But it's great to see when you see women athletes getting on the cover
of Forbes magazine. I think that's just fantastic. It doesn't happen too often. Jennifer
and I got on it, Anna now. I think that's just great. I just hope it won't put the
emphasis on young girls starting that, "Gee, I want to play tennis because I'm going
to make all these millions of dollars." It still should be for the love of the sport.
I really hope other sports would have that opportunity as tennis players have. 

Q. Are there more opportunities for players now to showcase their personality off the
court than maybe there used to be?

MONICA SELES: Definitely. But, I mean, it's still the top five players, Martina,
Lindsay, the Williams sisters, Anna. Lindsay I wouldn't even put in that group. She's not
doing that much off-court stuff to publicize herself. It's really the other four players
who seem to do a lot of things. They seem to enjoy it. They're doing well.

Q. In terms of more publicity, is that kind of a push from the players or from the tour
in general?

MONICA SELES: I don't think the tour pushes them. I think it's purely the players. 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT