TMS - INDIAN WELLS, WOMEN
March 13, 2000
Monica Seles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 WTA: Questions for Monica.  
 
Q. How do you feel about that match?
 
 MONICA SELES: That was a hard-fought match. I mean, I really am happy that I stayed in
the match and didn't give up and just kept fighting. Sabine also just played some
unbelievable tennis in the first set there too. She gave me a touch bit of a window. Thank
goodness I took that opportunity.  
 
Q. Your second day in a row of left-handed players. 
 
 MONICA SELES: Yeah. I hit with Magui Serna, She's a lefty. She was kind enough, she
serves a lot. It's very different playing lefties. My next opponent is a right-hander. I'm
happy to be "bye-bye" by the lefties.  
 
Q. After Martina, who is the toughest lefty you've faced?
 
 MONICA SELES: No one would come even close, any names. Can't even think of one really,
yeah.  
 
Q. Despite not playing hardly at all the last six months, your results have been pretty
good. What do you attribute it to?
 
 MONICA SELES: I'm very surprised. I think definitely my racquet helps a lot. I think
just my back-court game I feel has improved. If I could just get my service off to where
it should be or where it was at least for right now, I think that would be tremendous
help. I think I have much more maneuverability with my racquet here. There was a touch bit
missing. Hopefully, I can just stay healthy and stay on this track. I have a few more
weeks before going to Europe, get a little bit stronger, I'll be pretty happy then. 
 
Q. Did you switch to another Yonex?
 
 MONICA SELES: I switched to a much smaller racquet. 
 
Q. Was the other one too big to control?
 
 MONICA SELES: It was too tough I think to control it. I wasn't as consistent, I felt,
from the back court as I used to be. I felt I was hitting a lot of balls. That's one thing
now that if I go into a rally, I feel so much more confident staying in it, just pounding
it out with the players than before. 
 
Q. A few years ago when Andre was going through his rough times and his ranking was in
triple digits, people were pretty much writing him off. We in the media ignored him to
some extent. Now he's come back and had this fabulous run. To a small extent, people
certainly aren't writing you off, but you aren't quite getting the attention you used to.
This kind of incredible reversal, comeback, is that you in any way?
 
 MONICA SELES: Well, no, it's fair really because the last two years I haven't been able
to beat the top four players in the world. Everyone else I'm beating that's ranked 4 or 5
in the world. A few things for me have to happen for that. I need to change. I think
hopefully I got it through in my mind the last couple of months that I really want to
change. It's great to see someone like Andre who really turned it around on his own, and
that's great to see that, because no one else can do it for you. You know, obviously you
have to have a lot of harmony off court, too, to really be able to focus on court. I think
that has definitely helped Andre. Hopefully, you know, I find that in my own life, too,
then just really keep working hard. I remember last year when I saw him at the French,
"I'm not even sure I'm going to play." No one would have thought eight months
later where he would be. It's just fantastic to see. It couldn't happen to a better
person. 
 
Q. Do you feel that you have more harmony in your life now than in the past?
 
 MONICA SELES: In some ways, yeah; in some ways, no. You know, my off-court life has
been very complicated, not to my helping. But that's the way it is. I'm learning to deal
with it. I think my mom has helped me a little bit to try to deal with certain things
better. But at the end of the day, I have to learn how to deal with them. I think that's
part of the growing process. But all of us go through it. It's very difficult to play
tennis and practice hard, mentally also to put certain things aside. But I've done that in
the past with my dad's illness. Hopefully I can do it even better now. 
 
Q. You were saying a few moments ago improving your back-court game. You've always been
a back-court player. What is there to improve? Is it more a case of movement?
 
 MONICA SELES: Definitely movement. But I just felt with my other racquet, the rally
went four, five points long, I would be missing, and sometimes missing it by a lot. Since
I switched to this racquet, I notice I can stay in much longer rallies and not miss by
such an error. That's kind of what I meant there. But definitely, I mean, the little I
improve my movement, I feel better getting to balls. I still have a long way to go. But
we've seen that with Lindsay, with Andre, with all the players. Once they improve that
part of their game, in some ways it definitely helps. I'm definitely a shot-maker. I need
to be in position to make those shots.  
 
Q. The crowd was really with you today. 
 
 MONICA SELES: They were fantastic. 
 
Q. Did you feel that?
 
 MONICA SELES: Oh, yeah. They definitely pulled me through.  
 
Q. As we were out in the stands, just waiting, everybody's heart was in their mouth. 
 
 MONICA SELES: They were great. Boy, when I started, I couldn't hold a service game,
"This is not good."  
 
Q. It was like everybody thought you were their daughter. 
 
 MONICA SELES: They were very nice to me. But I feel that. There's no better feeling
really because you feel even when you're in a tight match, there are people supporting
you, you better get it together, not mope around, start playing the best tennis you can on
that day.  
 
Q. Your other racquet was pretty powerful. It was probably the most powerful racquet
seen on the Pro Tour. I think it was built for lower recreational players. Are you saying
by switching now you're going to sacrifice power for consistency?
 
 MONICA SELES: No. Really how the whole thing started, last year I played in Tokyo, Mr.
Yoneyama, he's the president of Yonex, he watched me play a couple of matches, and he
noticed my balls did not have the same 'umpf' on the balls as when he watched me two years
ago when I played with my old 380. He said, "Let me think about it. I think you
should go down to a smaller head and a little bit of a different combination with the
racquet." When we did the testing, the balls definitely come off faster with this
racquet. This one is a 110. That one was a 130. 
 
Q. Were you surprised Mr. Yoneyama would know so much?
 
 MONICA SELES: He knows so much. He's so quiet. I've been with Yonex all my career,
really since 1990. I've got to know them in a very special way. It meant a lot to me that
really he could see it. For a long time, a lot of people around me were saying,
"You've got to try to switch racquets." But no one ever said specifically what
you need to do. He really laid out a plan, how to do it. In December I tried out the
racquet, then unfortunately I couldn't really play because of my foot. I really only
played with this racquet for four weeks now. It's always difficult to switch racquets.
That's a pretty extreme case from where I was to where I'm at. I'm really happy with how
fast I've adjusted to it.  
 
Q. I know you get sick of hearing conditioning questions, but at what percentage would
you put yourself in shape? Are you 90 percent of what you could be, 95? 
 
 MONICA SELES: Now?  
 
Q. Now. 
 
 MONICA SELES: I think probably about 65, 70 realistically, I think so. But I definitely
feel I'm in better shape than I was most of the time last year. But I still need to get a
little bit more of a movement better, and I still need to lose some weight.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT