US OPEN
September 2, 1999
Monica Seles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 USTA: Okay, first question. 
 
Q. Monica, after what happened at the Fed Cup, did you come out today with an extra
sense of purpose? To make sure you took care of it?
 
 MONICA SELES: Definitely. I didn't want to have a repeat of that match. I got a little
bit -- my mind left me at 5-1. So I was just happy that I toughened it out there, that 5-3
game. 
 
Q. How do you guard against your mind leaving you?
 
 MONICA SELES: Well, I just think it was, you know, 5-1, I thought this is going to be
it, I'm serving with the wind, this is going to be too easy. It was really windy out
there. It was very good to see me this early on while I can still pull out a match as the
rounds go along, those things can't happen. It's good that it happened today. 
 
Q. Monica, are you satisfied with your fitness level at this point?
 
 MONICA SELES: I'm really happy, yes. 
 
Q. Can you elaborate a little bit?
 
 MONICA SELES: Hmm? Yeah, I'm feeling fine. I've been playing two hard weeks. I've
gotten to play a lot of matches, both singles, doubles, I feel fine coming into this
tournament. I have no injuries. You know, just look forward to playing here. 
 
Q. Do you feel like you're the overlooked commodity in this tournament? All the focus
is elsewhere? And is that okay with you?
 
 MONICA SELES: I think definitely -- there's a lot of focus on Martina, Lindsay, Venus
and Serena. They totally deserve it. They played better tennis this summer than I have. I
only got to play really two tournaments. So definitely they're more favorite than I am.
But as always, it's a two-week event. I think as all the players know, anything can
happen. I just look forward to the next match. 
 
Q. Does that motivate you at all?
 
 MONICA SELES: No, it does not matter. I don't care. Doesn't matter. 
 
Q. What is pushing you right now?
 
 MONICA SELES: I just love to play. I mean it's definitely not matches. It's nothing
like that. I just love to practice. I think I enjoy it more than probably a year ago,
because I think probably the last four weeks of this summer for the first time in my life
I really have no outside problems. And it's been really nice. I've really enjoyed the last
four weeks of my life. If I can just have this for the next two years, I'd be really
happy. 
 
Q. What kind of goals do you have? Is it another Grand Slam?
 
 MONICA SELES: Just to have no other problems in my life. Just to really be able to play
and focus on my tennis fully, like every other player -- not every other player, but the
majority of the Top 10 players right now. 
 
Q. How does the US Open compare to the other Grand Slams?
 
 MONICA SELES: It's one of the toughest Grand Slams just because of the wind. For
whatever reason, since they built the new stadium there's just so much wind there. You
have to be playing smart tennis out there, which if it would be a neutral court it would
be a lot better. The courts are playing fast this year, which I like, but it took me a
little while to get used to coming from a very slow court last week. And everything else
is fine, I mean it's a Grand Slam and you have to like everything about it, at least you
try. 
 
Q. Is there a prevailing wind there?
 
 MONICA SELES: It is. It's just constant. You talk to every player. One side, you're
just so much wind to wind. The other side you're so into the wind. I've never played on a
single court in my life that has this much wind. 
 
Q. It's totally different from the old Armstrong?
 
 MONICA SELES: Totally different. It's really weird, if you open the doors down where
the level is, then there's no wind. But if the doors are closed, the wind just gets stuck
and it's terrible. 
 
Q. Can you get them to equalize it by holding the doors open?
 
 MONICA SELES: Definitely. I think if they would do that -- but I think all the players
need to get together, but all the players are just complaining right now and doing nothing
about it. So we just have to depend on that. 
 
Q. You talked about the problems of your life, and there was a time when you came here
and you said that one of the ways you dealt with it, I know with the stabbing, was to sort
of -- I think the term you used was to "put it in a box and lock it away."
 
 MONICA SELES: Uh-huh. 
 
Q. Do you still treat -- do you still work that way, that you compartmentalize problems
that way?
 
 MONICA SELES: I still do. It depends which ones, obviously my dad's death is totally
different than that and other things. So I try it. I mean that I definitely do, because
that's a different type of memory for me. But my father passed away, that's a little
harder. I truly miss him at the tennis court and at my practices. It's just really hard,
kind of. It's been hard to find direction, where my tennis game should be leading, where
my dad would lead me. Like Martina, her mom in Wimbledon, it was hard for her. I lost him
for the rest of my career. That's a little tougher. 
 
Q. Did Steffi's retirement bring anything back? You saw her career, you guys have been
on the same track.
 
 MONICA SELES: We have been on the same track in some ways, some ways not really, too.
But I was, you know, I just think it was terrific she retired on her own terms at a great
point in her career. And I just felt you could see that she was so much content with a lot
of things at the French, even before she won it. It was just great to see that side of
Steffi. She just did what you can do in tennis. There's not much you can do. She has a
fantastic life ahead of her. I just think that's great. 
 
Q. Can you make a comment on Silvia Farina and the way she played you.
 
 MONICA SELES: Well, I think my condition was very different. It was one of those
matches that I hate to look back upon. Silvia is obviously a very tough player. She's a
Top 20 player. And obviously she and I had some weird matches or very easy or very
difficult. And I think she played very well today. It's hard for me to compare to her to
Antonia, that was just a very painful match for me to be in. 
 
Q. What kind of challenges would somebody like Farina present for you that you could
use in your next match?
 
 MONICA SELES: I think my next match will be similar to Farina, it's going to be with a
Top 25 player, either Habsudova or Sugiyama and both like to play on the surface. That
should be a really good match, a very difficult match for me. 
 
Q. Speaking of the surface, she beat you of course on play, you were fairly dominant
here on the hardcourt surfaces. Is this testimony that this is a good surface for you?
 
 MONICA SELES: It is, but really before Fed Cup I beat her on clay 6-Love, 6-1. What
happened there was difficult. I just had all those hand problems. But definitely, still
it's always good to come out against a player that you've lost to and you're playing in a
stadium and it's really high stakes, just to know that you could play well, the key
points. 
 
Q. Do you feel like you're playing your best tennis now or do you feel like there's
something you could be doing that would be more effective?
 
 MONICA SELES: That's so hard for me to compare. Sorry, it's hard. 
 
Q. You said you had no -- you had no one to lead you in tennis now. Who do you travel
with? How many people do you travel with?
 
 MONICA SELES: (Laughing.) 
 
Q. Who do you travel with?
 
 MONICA SELES: I usually travel with my hitting partners, Elton (ph), and then the last
two weeks I had Jim Arias with me. It's been really great. You know, to have someone who
can help me with my game and everything. You know, we'll see after the Open who I have but
I definitely need somebody. 
 
Q. Can you talk a little bit about Jennifer Capriati's comeback?
 
 MONICA SELES: I think it's terrific to see how well Jennifer is playing and how focused
she is. A lot of credit has to go to her coach, Harold, who's done a terrific job with
her. I've got to see her play in Toronto, two weeks ago, and she's just playing better and
better. 
 
Q. Is Jimmy with you now?
 
 MONICA SELES: Uh-huh. 
 
Q. Does his past in seeing you, does that give him an insight that a lot of coaches
won't have?
 
 MONICA SELES: Yeah. I mean Jimmy's hit with me when I was a child at Academy and he has
hit with me when my dad was coaching me. He's hit with me when I came back and he hits
with me a lot when I'm home. He lives close to me. It's been great he could come to the
next few tournaments, he's playing the over-35s, and he's played last year on the Tour.
I've been lucky with that. It's great to have that insight, what I need to work on my
game, what the other players are doing. I didn't have that really for quite some time, and
it's nice that I have that right now. 
 
Q. What kind of memories do you have for that Semifinal match you played against
Jennifer here?
 
 MONICA SELES: Just some really great memories. It was such a tight match, to finish in
a tiebreaker and go to the Finals was really big for me because I never kind of thought I
would do well at the US Open, especially the year before when I lost in the third round,
and I kind of didn't like the tournament. And to win that match, when I lost to Jennifer
the week before, was terrific. And it was a very hard hitting match and all that stuff. 
 
Q. Could you talk a little bit about how hard it is to come back like she has? I mean
you had to come back from being off. But it's been seven years since she won a match here.
 
 MONICA SELES: Wow. Wow. I didn't know that. Wow. It's hard, because I can't relate to
Jennifer. I mean it's hard for me. I've never had those problems, so I don't know. But I
just think it's terrific that she's trying to put her life back together. She's still so
young. And even, you know, once her tennis career is over, it's great to see that in
general her life is going the right way. She's a very tough competitor and she definitely
has the game. I think it's terrific that she realizes she needs to do things now and not
wait too much longer. 
 
Q. You mentioned that hitting is much more fun now and you just feel a little bit
lighter. Maybe describe what's going through your mind when you step on the practice
court, and off the practice court. What is more fun for you?
 
 MONICA SELES: I truly just love to hit. I really never enjoyed playing matches, even as
a youngster. I just loved to practice and drill and that stuff. Off the court, I mean I
like the same things as everybody else. I love to go to movies, spend some time with my
friends, my dog, and just really being home. It's so nice when I get to be home. A couple
of my friends have babies, and just spend some time with them. Very simple things. 
 
Q. What's different about those simple things now?
 
 MONICA SELES: It's really the same. I've done the same thing when I was 15, 16, maybe
it got a little bit difficult there at 17 when I had to deal -- when I withdrew from
Wimbledon, suddenly that whole hoopla thing there. But next year I got it back. It was
same. Probably only things that were not same for those two and a half years, maybe then
it was a little different, my life. 
 
Q. Why don't you enjoy matches? Is it because you're beating someone else?
 
 MONICA SELES: No. I just hate the whole thought that one is better than the other. It
drives me nuts. But I just, you know, never liked it. So..., yeah. 
 
Q. Why are you so good at it?
 
 MONICA SELES: I don't know (laughter.) Maybe as a child that's how I was brought up. 
 
Q. You don't lack a killer instinct?
 
 MONICA SELES: No, no, no. It's survival out there. If I don't, then the other person
will so you go into that automatic mode that you have no choice. 
 
Q. Is it possible to be too nice? Are you too nice a person?
 
 MONICA SELES: I sometimes am and I've been working on that (laughter.) But it's a hard
one. 
 
Q. How do you become nasty?
 
 MONICA SELES: I don't know. I want -- I don't want to get to that. I just want to be
able to say "no" more to people and "I don't like this," not I like
this just for them to be happy. I really don't want to do this, or just be able to say to
certain people that even are close to me, that I just don't like this, I don't want to do
this. And just part of growing up, I think, and not be such a pleaser. 
 
Q. Martina made some comments yesterday about Richard Williams' prediction there would
be Serena and Venus in the Finals. She was critical about that. Do you have any comment on
what he said, what she said yesterday?
 
 MONICA SELES: I didn't read today's papers, I played my first match at 11. I really
don't like to read the paper before I play. 
 
Q. Do you like 11 o'clock matches?
 
 MONICA SELES: I like it. I know Steffi and I would love it. I do. Some players don't.
Martina does not like to play them. I prefer them just because then you have the day to
yourself. Or then you play your doubles match. But I just think it's better. 
 
Q. How does that compare, you know, you played night matches in other --
 
 MONICA SELES: I love night matches, too, though, by the way. 
 
Q. How does it compare here as to any other place?
 
 MONICA SELES: The difference here, there's a lot more pressure. You're more nervous if
you play at night because all day you're just sitting, waiting to play. You come out here,
when you play a Tier 1 or Tier 2 event, there's little bit less pressure and you're more
relaxed during the day. 
 
Q. You might be meeting Jennifer. How would that strike you?
 
 MONICA SELES: That would be an unbelievable match for sure. But I don't like to go
there. I just like to look forward to my next opponent. Thank you. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT