PILOT PEN TENNIS
August 27, 1999
Monica Seles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  You seemed to be a bit awe-struck certainly in that first set with some of those shots that she was coming up with.  Did you feel shell shocked out there?

MONICA SELES:  She just started off playing so well and I gave her the second serves and she didn't flink (sic) at them. She just hits them, clean winners.  I think that put a lot of pressure on me and I started serving worse and worse.  She just really played unbelievable.  I don't think she gave me really any free points in the first set.


Q.  Is she a bit intimidating?

MONICA SELES:  She is obviously a very good player so, whenever you play a top player you know it is going to be a tough match.  If someone is a good player and she is so on, it is tough.  I was having a hard time finding my rhythm and the balls were going 100 miles per hour.  It is not a fun situation to be in.


Q.  You seem to have a lot of the crowd support though.  Did that help you out at all?

MONICA SELES:  Definitely helped me hang in there. Not get really frustrated when things just started off so badly for me.


Q.  Lindsay talked earlier about how you tried to compare notes with Venus earlier today, I guess.  She was surprise --

MONICA SELES:  I haven't seen Lindsay today at all.


Q.  Maybe it was yesterday - earlier.  She said she was surprised to look and see that you had only played her once before; Lindsay has played her ten times.  She obviously has a little bit more experience with it than you do --

MONICA SELES:  I haven't looked at those notes, I don't know.  I know I played Venus two times.  I don't know how many times Lindsay.  I don't know about Lindsay.


Q.  But Lindsay has played her like ten times.  She obviously goes in with a lot more experience.

MONICA SELES:  She has a better record too, I think.


Q.  She said you had talked about it at some point.

MONICA SELES:  About playing Venus tonight?


Q.  Yes.

MONICA SELES:  No.  Definitely not.


Q.  You know Lindsay reasonable well.  How do you think she stacks up against Venus the way Venus played tonight?

MONICA SELES:  I just think Lindsay will have one huge advantage, she is serving a lot better than I am.  I think if you don't hold your own games there is no pressure on the server. That will be a main difference that Lindsay is going to serve some aces and that is tough.  Lindsay has a different returning style. But if Venus is playing as well as she did tonight, it is a  different story.  But I think from the past matches they played, Lindsay has come out a better player.  But that could change any time.


Q.  Ever think about hitting a one-handed forehand when you want to hit it rather than out of necessity?

MONICA SELES:  Yeah, I actually enjoy hitting it, but I think at this point in my career it will be hard to go just change it to one-handed forehands all the time.


Q.  Is she one of the hardest hitters you ever faced?

MONICA SELES:  I would have to say Serena is up there. Steffi's forehand definitely is up there and Lindsay's.  There are four, five girls that are hitting the ball.  Probably Mirjana, I would say, among those four, but athletically, I mean, she is, I think, probably one of the strongest ones.


Q.  Certainly a loss is disappointing, but you must be reasonably satisfied with the fact that you reached the final in Canada; semifinals over here after being off for four, five weeks?

MONICA SELES:  I am happy, I just-- I had really good results, but still it is a tough one.  If I want to play better I have to beat the players like Martina and Venus.  And it will be nice to do that, but I am happy.  I was worried about being too tired going into the Open - it is a tough two-week event and everything, but just look forward now I guess to the Open; have to refocus.  It is going to be a little bit of adjustment with the surface and just hope for the best there.


Q.  In the second set you seemed to adjust -- like you served better and you put her on the defensive a little more.  Is there anything that you would have done differently in the first set, like, hindsight is 20/20?

MONICA SELES:  Come out playing a little bit better, a little bit better serving, I think.  My serve just really let me down, but against a few players, four, five players on Tour, if you are not serving well and not playing well; not returning, they are not going to give you a chance.  Venus punished me because of that.


Q.  When someone is on their game like she was tonight, is there anything you can do to counteract that?

MONICA SELES:  Yeah, but I mean, when you start leading immediately 3-Love, that gives you so much confidence.  I know as a player when that happens to me it is a different story than when it's 2-1.  Once she gets on a roll, she is a player that has all the shots.  Physically she is very strong so it is a very tough one to try to change the momentum.


Q.  You seemed frustrated by a couple of line shots in that first set.

MONICA SELES:  I mean, you just always feel close calls, but that is what they decided and you go with it.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT