PILOT PEN TENNIS
August 26, 1999
Monica Seles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Talk about your match against Venus. 
 
 MONICA SELES: I am looking forward to it. It should be A very tough match. Last time I
played her I lost her. She has been playing some good tennis. I feel I have been too. It
should be a great match. 
 
Q. Do you think her game has improved at all watching her play?
 
 MONICA SELES: I think she just keeps still improving. I think her results are better
this year, so definitely. 
 
Q. What about your game, do you feel like your game improved?
 
 MONICA SELES: About similar. We both ranked very close to each other. She is 4, I am 5,
right there. So I think we probably played throughout the year pretty similar results. 
 
Q. Can you evaluate your year and what your hopes are at the Open?
 
 MONICA SELES: I am just looking forward to playing in A Grand Slam again, last Grand
Slam, obviously. I had a good Grand Slam season except for Wimbledon. Obviously, it is not
my favorite surface so I don't think I put too high expectations on that tournament. I am
looking forward to playing at the Open. It is one of my favorite Grand Slams. And looking
forward to playing my first round match Monday or Tuesday or whenever there. 
 
Q. Consistent match tonight?
 
 MONICA SELES: I played pretty well. I knew I had to come out really aggressive against
Amanda because she is not going to give any free points. It was tough conditions because
the balls were heavy and it was a little bit slow out there, but I think all of us were
very happy that we got to play because it had been so hard to play two matches like we did
in Toronto right before the Open. 
 
Q. Do you have to make any adjustments because of the wet court?
 
 MONICA SELES: I just had to be more patient because it is very slow out there. It is
very muggy and the ball is just fluffed up. Amanda is a fast player so, I just try not to
go for too much. 
 
Q. A lot of players have talked about the slowness of the court.
 
 MONICA SELES: It is very surprising before the Open that they picked this surface. But
I guess it is the same surface at the Open, what everyone is saying, but it is definitely
slower. But at my house, I went through the same problem because people who did it they
said it is the same surface at the Open and it is as slow as here. So it must be something
under the court.  
 
Q. Can you comment on Steffi's retirement both in a personal sense and also what you
think it might mean for the women's Tour, women's tennis?
 
 MONICA SELES: Well, I think Steffi retiring is a great time. She has made that decision
on her own terms. I just think that is fantastic. She had an unbelievable year this year.
On the Tour -- I think it would have been very difficult on the Tour five years ago if she
retired. I think right now you have five other players who have marquis names and that is
why women's tennis is right now at such an unbelievable point. I just hope that it
capitalizes on it while it is lasting. But I think all the players are going to be sad not
to see her because she has been such a part of the Tour for such a long time. 
 
Q. Does it seem strange that you two will never play again?
 
 MONICA SELES: No. I mean, doesn't seem strange never to play Martina or Chrissie again.
That is just life. 
 
Q. How did you spend the rain delay?
 
 MONICA SELES: I was in my room just reading my book. 
 
Q. You have had a lot of success at the Open. What is about that tournament that seems
to bring out the best in your game?
 
 MONICA SELES: I originally didn't like to play at the Open really, never thought that I
would win that Grand Slam because I just didn't feel comfortable and finally when I did
play the great match against Jennifer in 1991 semis, that helped me a lot. It is one of
the toughest tournaments just because you are so far from the site; just a lot of hoopla
going on. But it is one of the most exciting ones. I just love New York City and I am a
person and a player that if I like the city, I play well too. 
 
Q. Your next opponent Venus had a lot of success there too. Do you think that
tournament suits her well?
 
 MONICA SELES: Definitely. That is, I think, where she had her best Grand Slam results.
I think the court is fast and I think it suits Venus's game really good. Obviously she
likes the excitement and the whole electricity about New York City. 
 
Q. Obviously getting you US citizenship a few years ago was a big thing for you. How
connected do you feel to your country and how difficult was it seeing what went on to your
original hometown this past year?
 
 MONICA SELES: Well, it was very difficult; still very difficult because you can't say
they are doing too well right now at this point too. I follow the news as everybody else.
It is a very tough one, what was going on. I became an American, I guess, five years ago
now and I lived here for a long time. But I still have some fantastic childhood memories.
I was very saddened to see what was happening there. 
 
Q. Are there still people you are in touch with back there?
 
 MONICA SELES: No, all my family members passed away and my mom's family, they always
lived in Hungary, so that is really it. 
 
Q. Playing Venus tomorrow. You have had the time off because of injury. This is only
your second event back. She has already reached two finals in the last month or so. How do
you think you are going to shape up tomorrow? Are you concerned at all about the lack of
match practice that you have necessarily have?
 
 MONICA SELES: Definitely. That is one reason why I decided to play this week just
really before the Open to have a lot of matches and I have gotten that -- I have played a
lot of matches last week and this week, actually more than I really thought I would.
Everything is going well. So it is going to be a tough one. Even if I played the last
three weeks, still be tough to play Venus, so I just got to go out there and play my game.
I definitely seen where my game was when I lost to Hingis last week. So I will kind of see
where my game is against Venus tomorrow. 
 
Q. What is it about her game that gives you the most trouble?
 
 MONICA SELES: Venus? 
 
Q. Yes.
 
 MONICA SELES: She is just a good player everywhere. She doesn't have too many
weaknesses. Obviously very powerful; powerful serve, ground strokes. She has a very good
all-around game. 
 
Q. How would you sum up -- how do you feel about your year so far this season? A little
bit up and down?
 
 MONICA SELES: I mean, for me it has been a pretty good year. So I was really happy
probably at times, how I played. But at times also I had some great matches and some
matches that I really -- I feel at least I should have won. So I am fine with it. But I
still feel that I still need to make improvements to win a couple of the key matches that
I really want to do. It is fantastic getting to the semis and all that stuff, but I really
like to make that one jump from that. 
 
Q. What improvements do you mean specifically?
 
 MONICA SELES: Everywhere a lot. I just need to find some consistency, working on
different things; then I can slowly start working on my game. 
 
Q. You said Amanda was a very fast player as well as Venus. Does the surface, the fact
that it is a little slower play into your strategy against the two of them?
 
 MONICA SELES: I think you will get back a lot more balls, no question, so I mean, both
of them probably one of the fastest -- not sure, fastest, but quickest players on the
Tour, so -- and it is not like clay that you can really wrong-foot somebody, so -- but
that shouldn't matter. I mean, we both played two matches so we know the surface; we are
professionals so.... 
 
Q. First time since 1988 that three American women are seeded in the top-draw at the
Open. Do you think one of those three can come home with the trophy?
 
 MONICA SELES: Definitely. Lindsay has an unbelievable shot at it. I mean, she loves to
play on the hard courts. She loves the Open. Venus also. I mean, you can't count out
Serena from that group also. I think we have a fantastic chance at it. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT