KB FED CUP, FIRST ROUND
April 18, 1999
Monica Seles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.   Have you ever played a better set than the first set? 
 
MONICA SELES:  Well, I played Iva, the last time I played her, I won the first set 6-love, 6-2 then I lost 7-6, 7-6.  I didn't want to get too confident this time. 
 

Q.   It was a good set?
 
MONICA SELES:  It was a very good first set.  I was on, everything was going my way, really on both sides of the court. 
 

Q.   Monica, was it as easy as it looked?
 
MONICA SELES:  I don't think so.  The first set for sure after I went up 4-love it was just a matter of closing.  And the second set it could have been a lot different but at key times I just played better. 
 

Q.   When you look back and compare the best that you've played in the ten years as a professional --
 
MONICA SELES:  I really honestly don't remember how I played -- 
 

Q.   All I'm saying is you've been a pro for ten years, how good a performance was today?
 
MONICA SELES:  It's really good.  I really wanted to come out, raised my level of game a little bit from yesterday.  I knew I had to do that against Iva on clay.  And I was very happy that I could do that.  Billie Jean helped tremendously, being next to me on the court.  So I'm just really happy, with both days' performances -- that was terrible grammar, sorry. 
 

Q.   Do you feel like you're playing well enough to win a Grand Slam, now?
 
MONICA SELES:  Well, I just have a few more weeks of practicing really hard, and getting ready.  So I just have to keep playing this well every match; to win the Grand Slams you have to play well, at least four matches out of the seven, so we'll just see.  That's going to be really a challenge for me. 
 

Q.   Monica, did you feel any response from the Iva today, did you feel anything that she can do with her game today?
 
MONICA SELES:  Oh, definitely.  I think she has so much variety.  I just think the injury that she sustained beginning of this year, she couldn't play, and she has just started coming back. And I've seen her practice really hard, so I think if she stays again on that course of practicing hard and staying focused, she's going to be back in the top ten, for sure.  So it's going to be up to Iva, but I really see that she is.  She's been practicing hard with her dad, I watched the last few days.  But she has all the strokes.  Obviously she moves really well.  It's just a matter of I think everything coming together at the right time, like it did for her at the French two years ago. 
 

Q.   Any special thinking when you're down 2-Zip in the second set and you play so well in the first set, and then she wins the first two games of the second?
 
MONICA SELES:  Here we go again, like in Tokyo when I lost to her.  I was just thinking I've just got to keep playing a point at a time and not worry that I'm down 2-love because the first set was so quick, and I kind of a little bit lost the momentum there when I lost my service game.  And just really stay concentrated.  And Billie helped tremendously with that, she didn't let me get  frustrated with myself. 
 

Q.   Monica, when Billie talked the last couple of days, about how much difference it makes with conditioning, do you agree that there's a big difference in your game?
 
MONICA SELES:  Oh, definitely, and I feel I move a lot better, it's so much easier to slide on the court, if I'm out for a ball, fine, I get back.  That's one of the biggest difference with ten years ago, I was moving so quick, I was getting back every ball. And now I think my timing is going to improve, also, catch the ball earlier, which is really the basis of my game. 
 

Q.   Do you ever practice with Iva in Florida?
 
MONICA SELES:  No, no.  I haven't been at home in a long time. I haven't been home in a long time.  But we talked about it, and I think we -- probably at some point in December, we will. 
 

Q.   Monica, your record down at the Fed Cup is 10-0, how do you feel, coming over to become a citizen in this country, now what does this mean to you, how do you feel about playing for the United States?
 
MONICA SELES:  First, I'm really honored to play.  Obviously I've lived here since '85, so it's been a long time.  I always seem to produce the best tennis for Fed Cup, and I am really focused. Billie Jean helps tremendously with that, having her during the week of practice, and on court.  It's just like Jim Courier, he just place extra better when it's Fed Cup matches, and it seems to be I just play better, also. 
 

Q.   Is there anything with Billie Jean's experience that specifically she's able to help you?
 
MONICA SELES:  Billie can just watch my game and pick up so many things that everybody else would probably take them two months to watch me play and pick them up.  She helps me correct them.  And she has so many drills that are very different that help my game. And she is very good at picking specific things for each of the players, I think, not just me, but Lindsay, also, and the rest of the team. 
 

Q.   Have you ever considered asking her to coach you individually?
 
MONICA SELES:  I don't think she can do that, because she's the captain of the Fed Cup team. 
 

Q.   What sort of advice does she give you when you're out there?
 
MONICA SELES:  During the match, I mean, really up to now, because all my matches have been pretty -- I was almost always leading in Fed Cup now, she just tells me to just do the same thing I'm doing, and really just not get frustrated with myself.  And then if somebody -- if the other player is getting me on certain shots she keeps unbelievable track of them, which I'm not that good at, she'll tell me these serves are going here all the time or the backhand here, and that helps me tremendously. 
 

Q.   What did she say to you after you were down 2-Zip?
 
MONICA SELES:  Not after 2-love, because I was still not going to the changeover, but at 2-1 she said great hold, it was really important, and just don't get frustrated and just keep on playing, you're playing great. 
 

Q.   Any news on a coach?
 
MONICA SELES:  Not yet. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT