KB FED CUP, FIRST ROUND
April 17, 1999
Monica Seles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.   Monica, could you give us an overview of what you thought, how you played?

MONICA SELES:  It was very tough conditions out there.  So I just tried to stay in the point.  I wasn't going for that big shots, maybe if it would be less windy, I would be more aggressive, but the wind kept swirling, and I watched Chanda's match, and I knew the conditions were going to be tough out there.


Q.   Was that as much wind as you've played in in a while?

MONICA SELES:  By far, I think ever.

CAPTAIN BILLIE JEAN KING:  Ever?

MONICA SELES:  Oh, yeah.

CAPTAIN BILLIE JEAN KING:  It was gusty.

MONICA SELES:  It surpassed Lipton in '88, when they used to have that old stadium.


Q.   Billie, what Rubin did, how important was that to the overall result for the team, and in a sense, did she really clinch the team victory by doing that?

CAPTAIN BILLIE JEAN KING:  You never know if someone has clinched a team victory until after the fact and there's hindsight involved.  But it's so vital that Chanda win at least one match, and it was so helpful to win that first match.  It takes the edge off, right off the bat.  But until you really finish, you won't really know, that's why it's so vital to play every point, to win each match you can, because you really don't know.  And I think it's a great tribute to Chanda who's really been through a lot the last three years with her wrist.  In 1996 at the Olympics, I was with the doctors with her, and the two doctors were talking to her, said it was career threatening, what she had.  I think she's been remarkable in her come back.  And I think Benny Sims has been very helpful to her as her coach.  She definitely has more variety to her game. She's more willing to go to net than she used to be.  Her serve is much, much, much -- her serve has improved tremendously, and she had wonderful rhythm on it.  She's willing to change her game and have more variety, where four years ago she was not.  I'd say she was improved a lot.  Another thing is I'd like to comment on Monica, is that Monica's volley over the last year, at least particularly since Kiawah, that's the last time we worked on it, that I remember, has really improved.  Monica's definitely going more north/south, as Benny Sims would say, than she used to, instead of just east/west. So I like the way he describes -- he'd be good on TV.  So I think Monica is trying to also be more of a complete player.  She doesn't have to -- you don't have to, but it's just makes her that much better, and she's getting quicker and faster, she's training physically a lot harder, and it's showing already.


Q.   Billie, could you talk a little bit about playing in these condition?  I noticed there was a point in the second match when you literally had a towel over your head, so obviously it wasn't real pleasant out there even to watch.

CAPTAIN BILLIE JEAN KING:  I do that because of the sun, I try to stay out of the sun, it wasn't because of the wind.  We just  found it was very gusty, but on one side you have to hit really hard and it's against you, then on the other side you're with the wind, but it's also a little diagonal side wind as well, but it will stop for a few moments and then get real gusty.  They were all having to adjust every moment, that was very clear to me.  I'm probably not the right one to talk to, since I wasn't playing.  But I could feel it in my face, and the changes, I try to be very alert to those changes at all times, in case there's something I want to give -- if I want to give information to the players when they change ends, if something changes, the sun changes.  For instance Monica playing in the second match I felt was better for her service, because earlier in the day would have been tougher on her toss.  Those are the kind of things that are important -- they're little things, but they all add up to making you more alert player and better player.  So those are the kind of things I try to be helpful with, if I can.


Q.   Monica, do you think that Chanda gave the team a really big boost today with what she did?

MONICA SELES:  Definitely.  I watched almost the entire match from upstairs, and it was just so exciting.  I was getting really nervous.  It was just amazing, being up 5-3, she was very unlucky not to win the third set 6-3, and getting up, and then again getting broken back, and she kept her composure and just fought for every ball.  And she won that match.  And that's just really just awesome.

CAPTAIN BILLIE JEAN KING:  Did you watch it on TV or through the glass?

MONICA SELES:  Through the glass.


Q.   Billie, just one note of clarification, the Williams sisters, were they available for this tie?

CAPTAIN BILLIE JEAN KING:  No.  They were available at the last minute, but I had already chosen the team.  We're just going over -- we did talk, though.  It will be what, two weeks -- Easter Sunday. They didn't really understand the rules.  We had a really good talk, Pam Shriver was instrumental in helping me get to a point I could have a good discussion with them.  They understand if they are to be eligible for the Olympics, they're going to have to be available for Fed Cup for two years, one of those years has to be '99 and the year 2000, and all those things, that's why I wanted to be able to talk to them, so they're clear on the rules, and what is Fed Cup and what are we doing, at least give them as much as I know, because now we've changed the format.


Q.   After you talked to them they were available and they understood?

CAPTAIN BILLIE JEAN KING:  Because they changed their minds on me a couple of times.  I also have to change what I do.  I have to make sure that the players sign a letter of agreement that they will be available or not available, so we have it in writing with their signature, so I don't have any misunderstandings, I think that would be real helpful.


Q.   The men, Tom's had trouble with Pete, getting the top men, you seem to have the opposite problem, you have Monica, Lindsay, everybody wanting to play.  Do you feel you have the opposite problem, that it's hard to choose the team, because you have so much depth?

CAPTAIN BILLIE JEAN KING:  We have a lot of depth, and I think the women, you have to develop a culture, and I know our American men did have it for a while, and it's really important.  But I think Tom and I have talked quite a bit, we feel it's important that we get players that want to play.  And we're not going to beg anymore, either you want to play or you're not.  And we're going to work on  the 14 year olds and 16 year olds and develop a culture, and when the USTA does help them and assist them financially or in coaching, that they'll have to be available for Fed Cup or Davis Cup.  We must start a new culture in this country, if we don't -- I think the women have it already, but we need to develop the team aspect.  We need to develop that culture, and it doesn't happen overnight.  And also we're going to teach young people social development and responsibility by knowing that if someone gives you all these opportunities that there's going to be a time in their life that they're going to have to give back.  So the scales will be balanced.  And I think it will be better, I think it will teach them responsibility and I think it's going to teach them how to be a team player, not only in tennis, but in real life.  And that's a very important thing that we want to develop as well.  We want to -- I personally, I'm probably talking about me personally, I want to help develop champions in life, not just champions on the tennis court.


Q.   Monica, I know in Grand Slams you've gone before, probably, waiting out long matches or something, but is it kind of tense to be sitting there and in that kind of a back and forth thing with the first match and not having a clue when you're finally going to get out there?

MONICA SELES:  Definitely.  I knew coming in the match Chanda and Iva were going to play a long match, because both of them are known on the Tour as one of the longest matches played ever, I think.  It was so exciting, I got caught up so much in the moment, in the tiebreaker in the first set, and when Chanda was down 4-2, and coming back 4-all, and coming back, and I was hoping that Chanda could stay focused, because it was a very up and down match.  But I thought both of them produced some very good tennis.


Q.   Can you just comment on the difference between Monica now and Monica in Madrid, from a year ago, any changes in her game?

CAPTAIN BILLIE JEAN KING:  I think she's in better physical condition, and I think as long as Monica is willing to make that kind of commitment she can be No. 1 in the world again, whenever she wants, it's up to her, whatever makes her happy.


Q.   Would you say the first match of the day -- would you say the first match of the day is maybe an example of why the average tennis fan may be finding women's tennis more exciting again?

CAPTAIN BILLIE JEAN KING:  I'm a big believer that everything goes in cycles.  So the women are having their moment.  But right now, yes, I would say the interest is greater, although the opportunities aren't greater, so I have a real hard time, when I read how much better we are, and we don't get dough, so I get a little upset.  I think we should definitely have equal prize money in all the Grand Slams, the other three Grand Slams, we have it at the U.S. Open, we've had it since the 70's, because a few of us were willing to stand up saying either we get it or we don't play.  And I think the women today are the best we've ever been, and this is their window of opportunity, to ask for what they want.  And I think they could get it.  I would like to see the women having many more opportunities as far as this, but especially in the dollar area, I think it's ridiculous.  If I read one more article or hear one more person tell me how much better women's tennis is right now, but I know the men have three to one more opportunities, that's hard to take.


Q.   Ross Greenburg says we're going to have 70 percent of the coverage at Wimbledon is going to be women's tennis.

CAPTAIN BILLIE JEAN KING:  Yes.  We have more women than men announcing, and that makes a big difference on our production meetings.  When you start to shift the numbers of genders, it starts  to make a difference on what happens, so I like equality.


Q.   Do you have a player you consider the "go to" person, would it be Monica?

CAPTAIN BILLIE JEAN KING:  Monica, right now.


Q.   You know that she'll --

CAPTAIN BILLIE JEAN KING:  If Lindsay was physically well, those two are the"go tos", with no question.  Monica always says, "What do you want?  What do you need?  I'll do anything you want, I'm ready."  Lindsay is the same way.


Q.   What do you think it's going to take to get equal prize money.

CAPTAIN BILLIE JEAN KING:  The women have to ask for what they want and need, it's a hard thing for girls to do.


Q.   What do you think of the new format for next year?

CAPTAIN BILLIE JEAN KING:  I think it's much better.


Q.   Because?

CAPTAIN BILLIE JEAN KING:  Because it's one less week on the schedule, we need to tighten up the schedule, we need to rearrange -- we had no master plan when we started, that was the problem, I felt.  I used to get upset with the WTA and ATP for just adding tournaments.  Why?  Just add opportunities or do we have a plan, here?  We need to have a plan the way other sports do it.


Q.   Is it a motivating fact that the winner this year goes straight to the final four?

CAPTAIN BILLIE JEAN KING:  I think you'd want to win anyway, definitely.


Q.   If the U.S. wins the first match tomorrow, how does that change the strategy for you and the Croatian captain?

CAPTAIN BILLIE JEAN KING:  If we win the first one?  It's over, then you can do whatever you want.  You can either put in youth, you can still go to win the matches, you can do whatever you want to do with that, you can use it as a building block, you can use it as I want a 5-Zip score.  I know I will talk to the team tonight, we always have a team meeting, we'll have one after we get back to the hotel and talk about those things exactly.


Q.   How do you feel, though -- I know you're signed to do this for three more years.

CAPTAIN BILLIE JEAN KING:  No, my contract is through 2000, I think.


Q.   Two more years.

CAPTAIN BILLIE JEAN KING:  This year and next year, don't I? Isn't this '99?


Q.   How do you feel about this?

CAPTAIN BILLIE JEAN KING:  I'm feeling more and more comfortable as Fed Cup Captain.  It's been a learning experience for me, as well.  Each player is very different.  It's my job to be alert and be aware of the differences and to accommodate it and to get the best out of them and create an atmosphere that's fun and serious at the same time and a learning experience for them, as well.  I always feel like every time we have these opportunities it's a building block in life.  So I want to make it a really great experience for them.


Q.   Do you think all four of your players are -- three of them are on the comeback trail, where do you think they are at this stage?

CAPTAIN BILLIE JEAN KING:  I'm always a big believer that injuries are really difficult.  Lindsay is going to have some really -- she needs to get her wrist right.  It's not right.  It felt pretty good the first couple of days she was here, and then it got worse again.  So Monica is really the one that's in a hundred  percent great physical shape right now.  So she's in the best situation, really.  And then Chanda is, too.  Chanda has to be pretty darn happy with today's situation.  These are the kind of matches that can really make a difference in your life and career. There's certain moments of truth, there's certain just turning points in your life sometimes, and this may be and hopefully could be one of those turning points to come through in a very big match, had opportunities to win, had opportunities to lose, and hung in there.  She's definitely much more well rounded player than she used to be.  But that also takes more courage, if you're used to only be being a baseline player, it takes a lot more courage to try to make those changes, and I really admire her for that.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT