THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 23, 1999
Monica Seles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Monica, how hard was it to try to even establish a groove out there the way Serena looks at you?

MONICA SELES:   I started off pretty good and then I think, you know, every time that I had a chance, I made a mistake or there are times Serena just hit unbelievable shots.  There's no in-between.  When she needed to come up with a great shot she did.  She's just playing some great tennis out there.


Q.  Monica, is her athleticism allowing her to get the balls that you don't expect her to get back?

MONICA SELES:   She's up there with the fastest players; Venus, her sister, and probably on clay, Aranxta.  I mean, still have to play tennis no matter how fast you are.


Q.  People kind of speculated at the beginning of the tournament of possibly Serena and Venus in the finals, how likely do you see that if you had to wager?

MONICA SELES:   That's a tough one.  Obviously they are a couple -- you can't count out Martina and Lindsay.  Martina is not going to make as many mistakes as I did tonight.  Martina is playing with a lot of power and confidence, they are maybe going to meet in the semis.  There are so many matches that would be so great, but I hate to speculate.


Q.  How do you see yourself in Lipton, I mean was it good for you?

MONICA SELES:   It was good.  I played some good matches today, obviously.  I played, you know, okay at times.  I played some great shots and times I just made so many mistakes.  The past couple of tournaments I haven't played that well, obviously.  Indian Wells was very disappointing, this one not as much.  So now I have the clay court season and I'll try to do better there. 


Q.  Obviously you're known for being kind of vocal with each stroke, she was kind of loud out there, too.  Do you see, especially when you came on the scene and you were an over-dominating player, do you see some of that in her game?

MONICA SELES:   I got so much slack for that, but if you went to juniors, even when I was playing, and if you had a lower ranked player they were all doing that.  I think at that point that was the only fault they could find with me, that's why they gave me such a hard time.  I don't see that nowadays.  Serena does it, Venus does it, Arantxa does it.  It's just part of the game.  But she is definitely a very focused player out there, no question.


Q.  If you were coaching somebody against her, what would you tell them to focus on?

MONICA SELES:   I don't know, don't ask me that one. 


Q.  Is she better than Venus now?

MONICA SELES:   I don't know.  I think probably now she's probably playing better than Venus, I think.  But Venus has beaten Serena the last two times they played.  That's a tough one.  Right now Serena seems to be playing better, she won two tournaments.


Q.  Do you think that today you learned more or less how to play her game for next time?

MONICA SELES:   Well, no, I just think some things were very obvious for me today.  It's just got to be a decision if I want to do something about that or not.  That's pretty much it. 


Q.  Monica, Serena is on a momentum roll right now, which I'm sure you've experienced many times in your career, what is special about that?  What helps a player bring the game to a heightened level when things are going well?

MONICA SELES:   Well, it is a great feeling.  Personally, if you ask me, I always felt Serena was this close (indicating with fingers).  She just won a couple of key matches and it gave her extra confidence.  With her power and her groundstrokes, that's a very tough combination.  I think most of the -- all the players are seeing that.  So I think it is a tremendous feeling.  She's obviously going into every match full of confidence and so -- and that's showing definitely in her game as well.


Q.  Can you reflect what that feeling was like for you  the various times when you were in a similar position and how it affected your play for the better?

MONICA SELES:   You just go in with some confidence.  Even if you are down 5-1, you still believe you can pull out matches.  You just feel you can't miss.  It's when you lose confidence you make more mistakes and make errors that sometimes you think are stupid, but they're just in your game.  And I think when you're doing well, those errors are a lot less.


Q.  Monica, encountering a player like Serena, does it make you take stock of where you are and how much longer you want to play, things like that?

MONICA SELES:   Not at all.  It is not that dramatic.


Q.  Monica, the moments it seemed that you were able to change the trend of the match was when you were attacking, but it was not easy to attack?

MONICA SELES:   Well, I think the problem when I was attacking, I was making too many mistakes.  Obviously my return was way off today.  I just gave her so many free points at times when I shouldn't have, if I had a window of opportunity, or she had an unbelievable shot or serve, and I'd make a mistake.  I had a lot of break chances, and if that happens, I don't deserve to win a match against a caliber player, like Serena is playing the caliber of tennis today.


Q.  This question might follow in the category with what you said about dramatic.  Venus walked into the match late with her family and during the changeover every head in the stadium turned.  Are you able to walk down the street and not have as many people swarm to you, maybe less so as the prime of your career?

MONICA SELES:   I think it all depends how obvious you want to be.  If I wear my hair like I wear it right now, yes, more people recognize me.  If I wear my hair down and I'm dressed, nobody recognizes me.  It all depends.  I think for Venus it is very difficult, she's so tall and with the beads, everybody recognizes her, so it is different.


Q.  A match like this doesn't give you more challenge to keep training even harder and to come back and win?

MONICA SELES:   We'll have to see, that's all I can say.


Q.  Monica, your doubles, you are playing doubles?

MONICA SELES:   Uh-huh.


Q.  You had a tough one yesterday, you are playing tomorrow, how do you feel out on the doubles court?  Are you enjoying that; are you going to play next week?

MONICA SELES:   I don't think I'm going to play next week because I'm playing four tournaments in a row, and I obviously might have Federation Cup and all that.  I'm very happy playing with Mary Joe, she is one of my best friends on the tour.  Yesterday we had a tough match, but I don't think I am going to do that that often this year, I really don't think so.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT