THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 21, 1999
Monica Seles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








VERONIQUE MARCHAL: Questions for Monica. 


Q.  I'm sure that everyone would agree, if they took a poll of all the fans here, the person that they would most rather see win is you.  Do you feel that here from the fans, and other places as well?

MONICA SELES:  Definitely.  I think the last couple of years, really since I've came back, the fan support has been unbelievable.  It has pulled me through a lot of tough matches for sure.  Sometimes when I lose easily, it's very difficult, harder, because you feel you disappointed a lot of people.  But it definitely is something, when you have tough losses, makes you keep going.  To know when you come back on the court next time, you'll have that support, people want you to do well, keep fighting, working hard.


Q.  There was a big difference from last match to this match.  You had more of the eye of the tiger. 

MONICA SELES:  I knew I had to come out strong.  A lot of the matches I lost the last couple of months, I've lost when I'm kind of sluggish.  I'm trying to improve on that.  Today I knew I had to come out against Conchita really strong.  I did come out.  I don't think she played the best tennis of her career.  It was just a good match to play, pretty aggressively throughout.


Q.  Your match against Conchita Martinez would be considered a final maybe three years ago.  Could you tell us about your physical regimen?  Is that what's keeping on top of your game?

MONICA SELES: What do you mean "physical regimen"?  I don't know what physical regimen is talking about (laughter). 


Q.  Why are you still winning?

MONICA SELES:  I don't know.  I guess I had a physical regimen.  That's an area I'm trying to improve upon (laughter).  I don't know.  I think I'm lucky that I have really good hand-eye coordination, obviously.  My dad taught me really good, the fundamentals of the game.  A combination of the two have definitely got me winning a lot of tournaments and matches.  But some areas that I haven't made much improvement and have lost me some matches, too.


Q.  What areas?

MONICA SELES:  I think physically, I guess, I'm not there where I was five, seven years ago, where the other Top 10 girls are.  I know that.  Probably mentally, I'm not as consistent as I was.  I was consistent seven matches, the entire tournament.  Now I'm a little bit less consistent.  That's one area I'm definitely going to try to make a big improvement.


Q.  How close are you to being at the top of your form, if you had to put it in percentage?  70, 80, 60%?

MONICA SELES: Game-wise I think I'm close, I do feel, on most days.  I still have some days when my game just disappears from me.  I didn't have those days five or six years ago.  That's the consistency.  It has definitely helped the past year that I've been able to practice a lot more, but still not as much as when I was younger.  It's difficult, because you play matches, doubles.  It's very hard how many hours you practice.  Physically, I'm not the same I was five years ago before the stabbing.  Hopefully, you know, I'll change that. 


Q.  When you said you made the decision to come out strong because you knew you were going to be playing against Conchita, were there any other decisions you made before you came out on the court?

MONICA SELES:  No.  Really just to play my game.  I've played Conchita so often, I have a pretty good record against her.  I knew the court is slower.  She also kind of didn't have anything to lose.  I just didn't want to get into a struggle out there.  I had some long matches.  The last time we played was a tough three-setter on clay in Spain.  In this heat, I didn't want to get in that battle.  I'm going to try to play my game.  Luckily she didn't play that great of a match today.  I was able to finish it off pretty easy.


Q.  The court is slower than other courts or other places?

MONICA SELES:  It's one of the slower hard courts, I think.  So it's definitely slower than Indian Wells last week.  But it was also really windy out there today.


Q.  Was it gusty?

MONICA SELES:  Yes, it was just swirling.  Difficult to get the timing.  It kept changing from one end to the other.  That's why I think both of us had  -- I don't know how many unforced errors, I don't know the statistics, but I think both of us had a few more than usual.


Q.  Tough to put balls away?

MONICA SELES:  Just really tough to time it.  I think with my racquet, it's even tougher to play in the wind.


Q.  You said you're not the same physically as you were before.  Can you be and what do you have to do to be?

MONICA SELES:  Oh, a lot of things I have to do.  That's one area I'm going to try to make some improvement upon.  My dad would just -- used to do a lot of work that I haven't done.  I've been playing a lot more tennis.  Also, I felt after the two years I didn't play that much tennis, that I lost a little bit of the ball touch.  I need to get back that.  I do feel I've got that back pretty good the last couple months.  Now it's on to a few other areas of my game.


Q.  The nature of your profession, you travel all around the world.  How do you like it here in South Florida?  When you're not playing tennis, do you play any golf?

MONICA SELES: I don't play any golf.  I live on a golf course.  I just played twice golf.  That was it for me.  I really like it here in Miami.  Obviously a friend of mine goes to college here, Mary Joe lives here.  It's a great place to be.  I have a lot of my family and friends come down.  I really enjoy playing here.


Q.  Humidity is about the same as Sarasota?

MONICA SELES:  About the same.  I think it's a little bit hotter here, to me it feels.  All my matches have been in the hottest time of the day. 


Q.  Did you get your coach yet?

MONICA SELES:  No, not in a day.  No updates on that one.  I'm still trying. 


Q.  What other ventures would you like to get into aside from tennis, maybe a line of clothing, cosmetics, acting, perhaps?

MONICA SELES:  No.  I'm terrible at that.  I would like to do something in the form of kids.  I really enjoy my work with kids.  I don't know in what shape or form.  But right now I think with the way tennis is, I need a hundred percent of my energy going to tennis.  I really decided for the next couple years of my life, that's what I want to do.  If I want to go back to the top, I need to give it 110 percent.  It's just getting tougher and tougher.  After that, there's so many more challenges in life, just see something that I'll enjoy that would be great.  But I think it would be away from tennis. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT