CHASE CHAMPIONSHIPS OF THE COREL WTA TOUR
November 19, 1998
Monica Seles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Are you happy to play such a good match? 
 
MONICA SELES: Definitely. 
 

Q.  A little tired at the end (Inaudible.) --
 
MONICA SELES: That is why I really wanted to come out strong and I knew if it would go a long match I would have a very difficult time and obviously I did and fortunately it was a long match. 
 

Q.  You must be feeling better today than you did yesterday presumably the way you played.
 
MONICA SELES: Yes, definitely by 10, 15 percent, but I knew I had to kind of do that or it would be a love, love match. That in the back of your mind helps to gear up even more. 
 

Q.  When you are in a match like that, particularly when in the end you lose it, can you appreciate what a great match it was?
 
MONICA SELES: Oh, definitely.  You feel if it's a good match not while you are playing it, win or lose, it is a great match, you know, in my mind at least. 
 

Q.  Do you think tonight the first set was the best tennis you have played since maybe Hingis in Paris?
 
MONICA SELES: It is so hard to say.  I mean, if it is the best tennis because it depends on two players.  I obviously played some clean tennis; wasn't making many mistakes and everything so, in terms of that, definitely, one of the better ones I have played this year. 
 

Q.  With all the emphasis we have had on all the younger ones this year - you are hardly an old one - can you still see that a rivalry between you and Steffi could take over and dominate again say next year?
 
MONICA SELES: I don't see that because there are too many players on the same level as Steffi and my game.  It is just -- you have ten other players I could name who play the same level of game what we play tonight.  Everybody has improved.  But if we both stay in the game and both play well, then we will definitely have some great matches with everybody else. 
 

Q.  How much is your enthusiasm for the game still?   Is it as high as it could possibly be?
 
MONICA SELES: That is a weird question.  (Laughs) That is a weird question. 
 

Q.  How would you assess your year?
 
MONICA SELES: It has been for the amount of practice and mindset, on the court I think it has been a great year.  I mean, so much better than last year.  I learned to deal with a few things and that has helped me pull through a lot of weeks.  I know going into next year it is going to be a difficult one, but I have a good month to just really relax next couple of weeks, take off from tennis, spend some time with my family and friends.  Then  just reassess really getting ready for Australia. 
 

Q.  Why was that a weird question because as one of the players that has been playing as much as you have, I mean, it is not always easy to sustain it, but you obviously are trying to or want to - I just wanted to know, you know, if you still felt that you could carry on playing at the highest level in the way you have been?
 
MONICA SELES: I think for me just the fact I could really put -- practice as much as I used to and so many other things that come with it because the consistency comes with it and tonight obviously didn't have that and I really one thing after another keeps happening in my life, so, but I am getting better at least at dealing with it.  So it doesn't affect me.  If that is the case, or miraculously I have a wonderful year next year, I am sure it is going to reflect on my tennis career. 
 

Q.  What do you think about Steffi's, sort of, come back, you know, the way that she is playing again, like a contender?
 
MONICA SELES: She is playing -- I always see Steffi as a contender.  Obviously she won the tournament before the US Open coming in; someone who has done so well in their career; they just don't disappear.  She is still in better shape than most players, so you always view her that way.  In my mind it hasn't changed at all. 
 

Q.  You were saying earlier this year that one thing was missing in your game was the concentration you used to have.  Is that back now?
 
MONICA SELES: I am trying to work on it.  I can't say it is fully back because it is tough to get that back.  But that is one area I am trying to work on.  But I think the more you have consistency in everything, the easier that becomes. 
 

Q.  What turned the match around?
 
MONICA SELES: That -- I think Steffi was more consistent and she was willing to stay in some points longer which I just went for too many shots, one, two, three, bing, bang, on some second serves and I missed them because I was trying not to get into a long rally and that I felt turned it around. 
 

Q.  What is it about Steffi's slice backhand that makes it such a tough shot?
 
MONICA SELES: I think it is -- you hardly have players on the Tour that hit the slice backhand; especially as much as she has.  And it is on a fast court it stays very low and it is very difficult to dig up and dictate the point. 
 

Q.  Did the injury timeout affect your focus?   What were you thinking during that?
 
MONICA SELES: It did.  It was a weird time to take it, but the player has the right to do that. 
 

Q.  Do you plan on playing more doubles next year?
 
MONICA SELES: I do.  I really have been very lucky this year.  I have enjoyed playing really all my partners, so, it will be nice probably to maybe have one or two partners; not changing because it is hard to keep learning one game after another.  That is what I enjoy.  I do hope I find a long-term doubles partner. 
 

Q.  What do you get out of doubles?  (Inaudible.) 
 
MONICA SELES: I look at it as fun.  I think it does help that you get to play on a court.  It is kind of a practice match, so from that point of view it does.  Yeah, I think both ways. Depends how you approach it.  But I kind of approach it both ways but I still to put more emphasis on really enjoying my doubles match. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT