CHASE CHAMPIONSHIPS OF THE COREL WTA TOUR
November 18, 1998
Monica Seles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  We heard beforehand that you had a bit of a stomach upset.  You looked a little wan to put it mildly.  How are you feeling now? 
 
MONICA SELES:  Not too good.  I have been really sick really since Sunday afternoon, I haven't eaten anything.  I just throw up everything I put in my stomach so, not good.  Really lucky I pulled out tonight's match. 
 

Q.  Did you say you nearly pulled out?
 
MONICA SELES:  I was lucky to pull it out tonight. 
 

Q.  Was there any hint that you might not have played?
 
MONICA SELES:  Well, definitely.  I really didn't hit a ball, so, I wasn't sure how I am going to play today.  I just said give it my best shot.  If at some point if I feel - I will just default.  I just said:  Just take it point at a time and go from there on.  I was lucky that I didn't have to do that. 
 

Q.  Was it food poisoning or is it a bug?
 
MONICA SELES:  I don't know, they can't figure it out yet.  Food poisoning usually goes out away in 48 hours max.  This has been a long time now, so, I can get some food in me a little bit. 
 

Q.  Do you think Anna was aware of this?
 
MONICA SELES:  I don't know. 
 

Q.  She seemed to be playing so wild.
 
MONICA SELES:  I think she went for her shots.  That is the way Anna has been playing the last few months. 
 

Q.  As an experienced player, do you have some sympathy for a youngster who is probably experiencing for the first time a major technical problem with her game with that serve?
 
MONICA SELES:  I think all of us go through stages; she is at that stage.  She had a wonderful playing time 'til I think something happened to her wrist, I think in Eastbourne, and it is very difficult coming back from an injury or from a time you don't play for a long time.  I know that feeling.  So it is tough, but I think she has a good month or longer to really work hard on it and I think knowing her, she is a very hard worker that probably she will repair that. 
 

Q.  Are you looking forward to playing Steffi Graf tomorrow?
 
MONICA SELES:  Definitely, yeah. 
 

Q.  Do you wish you had played her more in the last four, five years?
 
MONICA SELES:  I think she will keep on playing as long as she can. 
 

Q.  I mean, your rivalry, you haven't played her in the last few years.
 
MONICA SELES:  We probably would have played a lot of each other more often, that is a tough one to say.  What is in the  past, I don't think about it.  I just hope I can show up tomorrow and give it my best shot. 
 

Q.  Are you surprised at all how well she has done the last couple of weeks?
 
MONICA SELES:  I mean, knowing Steffi she is such a perfectionist, I just think she has played this well really in a lot of her matches; maybe not this consistently throughout the year, I don't think people have given her enough credit for that.  Obviously she loves to play indoors and the surface suits her game very well.  So I mean -- 
 

Q.  Are you on medication for your stomach and are you able to sleep properly at night?
 
MONICA SELES:  I have slept the last 50 hours, non-stop. I have no problem.  That is all I have been doing.  That is my problem.  I am so lethargic. 
 

Q.  What role do you think your conditioning has played in overcoming this illness?
 
MONICA SELES:  I haven't overcome it yet.  I mean, for me it was terrible timing.  I felt really good in Philadelphia and everything just seemed to have some bad luck happening to me at the Championships and really this year I felt coming in really good and then it is just unfortunate that that had to happen now, but, you know, not much I can learn from this. 
 

Q.  Except for Amanda Coetzer most of the players seem to think the season is too long and is not enough time.  What are your thoughts on that?
 
MONICA SELES:  Oh, I mean, anyway it is going to stay the same.  It is not even important to hear my thoughts on that issue. 
 

Q.  I thought if you people all felt that way you could do something about it.
 
MONICA SELES:  Yeah, we have been saying that for the past ten years, I think.  I am sure it will be the same next year answering the same questions - the season is too long.  The season is always too long. 
 

Q.  You seemed to play well out there today.  Were you happy with your game?
 
MONICA SELES:  I just hung in there. I really didn't play much.  But definitely couldn't run as well and not much strength, but I just hung in there really; just fought for every point and I think that is really what helped me win tonight's match. 
 

Q.  When is the last time you remember a top player doublefaulting 17 times against you?
 
MONICA SELES:  I have seen -- I mean, I have seen Anna in Moscow and I played doubles with her.  I knew she would have problems with her serve.  It is not the first match she has been doing that to me.  So I mean you go through that.  You go through different stages in your career.  She is having a tough time with that.  But I really believe she will correct that.  She is really a hardworking person, I think she gets credit for that. 
 

Q.  Will you be playing in Linz?
 
MONICA SELES:  Yeah.  I visited Austria a year and a half ago with my mom and I really loved it.  So I never been to Linz before.  I am looking really forward to it.  
 

Q.  Why did you decide to play there?
 
MONICA SELES:  I really loved the country.  I visited Vienna.  I absolutely fell in love with the place.  Obviously not having been to tournaments, but if it is anything like what I had experienced there, it was really fantastic.  That is really one of the reasons I want to come and play. 
 

Q.  Will you be in Australia?
 
MONICA SELES:  I am definitely going to play the Australian Open, I think at this point, yeah. 
 

Q.  What did you mean by something always bad always happens?
 
MONICA SELES:  Oh, I just had terrible luck here the last four years since I have come back.  '95 I couldn't play.  '96, I had to default in the match.  Last year it was one of the worst matches of my career kind of type deal.  So really haven't been lucky, kind of a bad streak coming in. 
 

Q.  How optimistic are you that you are going to continue your streak in Australia?
 
MONICA SELES:  That is a tough one.  The field is really tough.  All depends I think on my preparations going into Australia.  First of all, I have to get to Australia to play the tournament.  Last two years I never got a chance, so, that is really just kind of my goal to get there.  Once I get there then I will worry about the tournament. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT