US OPEN
September 8, 1998
Monica Seles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. You had beaten Martina the last two times. What was the difference tonight in her
game and yours?

MONICA SELES: I really feel just a couple of key points, she played a lot higher
percentage tennis than I did. She got a lot of free points on her first serve. And today I
didn't get that many free points off my serve.

Q. Were the conditions really bothersome to you?

MONICA SELES: I mean, I'm not a player that likes to play in the wind, but it's the
same for Martina, too, obviously. There were some points that it was hard to control the
ball. But that goes for both players.

Q. How upsetting is it when you're playing so hard, and you're getting her out of
position, and yet every desperation shot she hits back comes into play, and you have to
make another brilliant shot?

MONICA SELES: I knew coming in she's going to want to win this match really badly. So
she's going to try to raise her level of game. And I think she did that. She definitely
did that at key times when I kind of didn't raise my level of game or maybe went just a
tiny notch below, because really the match was decided on a couple of key points at key
times. And she just got back more balls I think today, which in these conditions, it's a
lot tougher to finish the point off than I did.

Q. Monica, why do you think you were able to step it up on the big points?

MONICA SELES: I don't know. I really don't. That's the question in my mind I have right
now, too.

Q. You used to play in front of the baseline. I notice that at least in the first game
of the second set, you were playing behind of the baseline.

MONICA SELES: Well, it's on that windy side. I mean, the wind was just blowing so much,
it was taking me so much back. I think both of us stayed really far on that one side back.

Q. Last year, players were wondering how to beat Martina. This year it looks like you
have figured it out. Could you share with us what does it?

MONICA SELES: I don't think there's any -- just take it a point at a time. You just
have to play better tennis, higher percentage tennis at every opportunity, because Martina
doesn't give you any free points. The last time that I beat her, I've done that. Tonight I
wasn't capable of doing that, and that's why she won the match.

Q. Was her level of tennis tonight back to last year's level or was it how she was when
you played her earlier in the year?

MONICA SELES: I think she was the same way, at least when I played her in Montreal. I
think the clay tournament, the French is hard to compare, different surface, different
matchplay. But at key times, in Canada, I lifted my game. Today I just went down a notch.
In Canada, for instance the key points I won, and the key points Martina won today.

Q. Do you think fitness level played a role at all?

MONICA SELES: Probably a little, I'm sure getting to some balls, no question. But in
terms of tiredness and that stuff, no.

Q. As well as you were playing coming in, how disappointing is it?

MONICA SELES: Well, I felt I was playing pretty good. I played well in Canada. I can't
say I was playing great tennis the entire summer, and coming in here the way I played
every single of my matches up to leading to this match, have been, in my opinion,
horrible. But this match I felt I raised my level of game and I knew that coming into the
match against Martina, that I have to do that. But it wasn't enough, I think.

Q. She plays Novotna next. Can you assess what you think might happen in that match?

MONICA SELES: I think it will probably depend how windy it will be. I think like Patty
had a terrible time today with the wind, more tougher than really playing Jana. That's a
tough one. I don't know. I mean, I like both of their chances.

Q. Do you go to Tokyo?

MONICA SELES: I plan to, yeah.

Q. When she had the last breakpoint, when you were serving off the net cord, she kind
of apologized for that. Were you thinking, "That's the way the night is kind of going
for her?"

MONICA SELES: No. I mean, I felt a few times how - I'm going to repeat myself again - I
had my chances to break her, and I let them go. But when she hit the net cord, I mean, it
was one shot, obviously a key shot to hit the net cord. But I still felt I could still
hang in there and maybe break her. But I never really got a chance on both of her last two
service games. She won them pretty easily.

Q. Jana talked about that after she won Wimbledon, players look at her differently,
maybe some even fear her more.

MONICA SELES: To who, Jana?

Q. Do you agree with that assessment? Is she a different player since Wimbledon?

MONICA SELES: To me she isn't. I look at Jana is Jana. I played Jana many times before
the stabbing. I had difficulty playing her. Played her many times after the stabbing, same
thing. For me, I think Jana -- most players should have won Wimbledon much earlier than
she did. It was great to see that she finally did it, but I don't view her differently at
all.

Q. You were playing, seemed to be hitting down the middle. Was that part of your
strategy?

MONICA SELES: It's the wind for me. I just don't feel comfortable playing with the
wind. It's simple. I knew that coming into this tournament. I didn't think it would be
this windy the entire time. But that's something for next year I have to learn and deal
with, what I do in the wind, because I just felt lost the entire tournament with this much
wind out there.

Q. Who would be your favorite to win the tournament now that you're out?

MONICA SELES: That's hard to say. I mean, that's a tough one. I would not go into that.

Q. Are you going to play the Grand Slam Cup?

MONICA SELES: At this point, I don't think so.

Q. Do you plan an extended session with Gavin at some point?

MONICA SELES: Oh, practicing?

Q. Yes.

MONICA SELES: I thought tonight (laughter).

Q. No.

MONICA SELES: Oh, boy. Definitely, I think so. I mean, I think my game needs that, up
here (pointing to head), it's needed everywhere, just to have a consistency of training
really, not just ten days, but at least a couple of months, I think. I'm going to need to
do that if I want to raise my level of game. If I don't, it's a different story. I think
that's a decision I'll have to make.

Q. Maybe it's a little early to assess this season. This is the last Grand Slam. You
might start looking ahead.

MONICA SELES: Well, I think, yeah. This obviously isn't starting off really not on a
good note, not playing Australia, one of my favorite Grand Slams. I did great at the
French, so it was very disappointing to lose to Arantxa. I think probably Wimbledon was
probably the most disappointing, losing to Natasha. That was not a loss I can look back
to. Tonight I thought I gave it a good shot. It was a tough match. It's not like when I
lost to Natasha. I felt horrible. Tonight I came off knowing a few things I need to do.
But it's tough against the No. 1 player, because she also will always raise her level of
game, so it's going to be a tough fight ahead. But this is the least probably prepared,
this and probably last year and the year before, I ever came into Grand Slams. So I think
with the preparations I had, I have to say I'm reasonably happy with the way things have
gone.

Q. What would make you real happy?

MONICA SELES: Oh, I think that's easy. Just to win a Grand Slam. I think for me really,
that would be it. Then play some solid tennis really in and out at big tournaments. I
think at the French I raised my level of game for a few matches, but then I couldn't do
that throughout. That's really what I'm going to try to work towards for next year.

Q. So you mention that you have to get used to playing in the wind. Does that mean that
you're now going to follow the weather reports, tropical storms out there?

MONICA SELES: Some players will do that; not me. I think I'm going to have to practice
in it, though, a little bit more. I cannot go and be a defensive player when it's windy,
which I have done really the entire tournament, or I can do that if I get in great
physical shape. Then I can just go and defend like some players do. But at this point,
that's just not going to pass, I think with the Top 5 or 7 players in the world.

Q. Did you play well enough tonight to beat most players, even with the wind, but it
was because you were playing Hingis that it wasn't enough?

MONICA SELES: I think Martina played really well. She didn't give me too many second
serves. I'm not sure what her first serve percentage was, but to me it felt high. Not too
many mistakes. I did feel I played pretty good on key -- most points, so. I mean, I
definitely played tons better than I've done the last one, two, three, four matches.

Q. Can the fans in Germany ever have a little hope that you'll come back?

MONICA SELES: I hope so. I really hope one day I'm going to get comfortable to be able
to do that. Right now it's very difficult because of what happened for me to feel safe to
go back there. It's just nothing else. I mean, two of my friends live there, and they keep
inviting me. And I might go back to visit them. That's a totally different category for me
than to play there because I just feel it was a total injustice in everything that
happened to me.

Q. But you've never been there since then, for visits, nothing?

MONICA SELES: Personal visits, no, no.

Q. Do you ever feel like you could play like you did before that, now like you did
before that?

MONICA SELES: Before then I worked really hard to play like that over the years, so I'm
going to have to do that right now obviously. Everyone says it's a distraction what I had.
But a lot of things were happening in my life. I think my life is getting simpler every
day, I hope so. And if I can go back to the focus that I had, and put in the work that I
was, definitely. But without that, it's not going to happen. I know that. I'm realistic
about that.

Q. Martina Navratilova always said her return trip to Prague to play Fed Cup was one of
the most meaningful experiences in her career. What sort of things are you going to be
looking forward to when you go back to play Fed Cup? 

MONICA SELES: I think for me it's totally different because I've been back many times.
It's not like I haven't been back there for a while, which I think for Martina was totally
different. I think it was under Communism then. Now it's a different story. I never had to
escape or leave my family behind. So for me it's nothing like what Martina had to go
through. I think it was tons worse than anything I could imagine.

Q. Can you describe what it's like, Hingis seems to get to every ball. Can you describe
what it's like playing against someone like that?

MONICA SELES: I think she's very quick. I don't think people give her enough credit. Is
that quickness or is that that she reads the ball very well? I think it's probably a
combination of both and she puts her racquet there and the ball comes back, and you have
to finish the point off. It's a different type of quickness than, let's say, Venus has.
But I knew that. I mean, I've known that every single match, that the ball is going to
come back against a few players like her, Arantxa, Venus. You just expect that.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT