US OPEN
September 4, 1998
Monica Seles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Describe the state of your game. How did you feel out there today, and are you as
far along as you'd like to be at this point in the tournament? 
 
 MONICA SELES: I am just really happy. The fourth round looking forward to my next
match, obviously going to play later today. I played some solid tennis out there today. I
really liked the old stadium now that they have changed it. So it was a good solid match. 
 
Q. Is this more than just a tennis tournament for you these two weeks? It seems that
the attention you are getting, it is almost more than just being a tennis player, sort of
being an ambassador for the sport, an ambassador for sports in general?
 
 MONICA SELES: Well, this week I am just worrying about my tennis game personally. A lot
of people come up to me and they are very nice in different things, but my main goal is
just for tennis really these two weeks I am here. 
 
Q. Do you remember when you played Chris Evert here the first time?
 
 MONICA SELES: I do, of course. 
 
Q. Were you -- I felt -- you had beaten her earlier that season.
 
 MONICA SELES: Yeah. 
 
Q. I felt you were kind of awed by it and you didn't really want to be here.
 
 MONICA SELES: It was just very tough. I really don't want to be remembered as the last
person to beat Chrissy in the fourth round, but then she lost to Zina in the next match.
But at that point I just -- I grew up watching her and it was just really weird to be part
of history in that sense. But I still shouldn't have lost that match because of that. But
at 14, or how old I was that time, that is the way I thought. 
 
Q. Do you remember how the match went exactly?
 
 MONICA SELES: Oh, she pretty -- it was a tight match. It was 6-2, 6-2, she killed me,
every point was long, but score line looked like it was very easy. 
 
Q. What were you thinking in your head during the match? 
 
 MONICA SELES: I just was on the court, I wanted to win the major match, that is a
dangerous position to be in; especially my style of game. 
 
Q. If I remember correctly in that match, weren't there a lot of -- a lot of moon
balls, long slow rallies, stuff that you don't do anymore?
 
 MONICA SELES: They have definitely a lot of long rallies, but not -- I think Chrissy
tried to change the pace. In the last match when I played here she was hitting everything
very deep, so it was hard to attack, best of my recollection. But she was just too
consistent, I think, for that day. I was inexperienced and just missing way too many balls
and that decided the match. 
 
Q. Nobody, this tournament, you don't want to beat?
 
 MONICA SELES: No, not the last ten years, no. (Laughs) 
 
Q. What aspects of your game were you most pleased with and least pleased with right
now?
 
 MONICA SELES: I think I have been serving pretty good. I have been running down a lot
of balls, staying in points; probably my return and my ground strokes have not been
consistent - I have been lucky -- not lucky, I don't know what word I'd use, to turn up my
game a couple of notches when it was important to win, but I still need to do a few more
things, I think, for my next round match. 
 
Q. You had that week in between Montreal and here. You were playing great there,
especially in the final. How do you not lose that and how do you also get a break so you
can rest and not lose --
 
 MONICA SELES: Pretty much I have just done the same thing like before, always just go
out there and hit. When I step on the court I really try not to bring with me what
happened the day before in practice or in a match because if you remember playing well,
you can get too confident, and if you are not, then you can just have zero
self-confidence. I just believe just to go out there and take it as it comes, every ball
and nothing that I am playing better now or worse because that gets me into trouble. It's
gotten me into trouble a few times. 
 
Q. Did you have three or four days, two days, one day without actually hitting a ball
at all?
 
 MONICA SELES: No, not this time because I had way too many after I came back from
Federation Cup, just played the matches at the California tournaments. I think that was my
kind of off weeks during San Francisco and San Diego. 
 
Q. You usually take advantage of the city life when you are here. What have you been
doing anything?
 
 MONICA SELES: I have. My mom and my friend we will probably go to Celine Dion tonight.
I always do the same things. I haven't changed, but obviously I am not -- I never done we
really that much before, but if it fits into my schedule I do it, but that is not my
priority. 
 
Q. Have you had a chance to observe the home run chase at all? Have you had any
thoughts about the attention for McGuire and what he is trying to achieve?
 
 MONICA SELES: Obviously, I read about it. I really don't follow baseball that much. But
I definitely -- I think it is unbelievable, both Sosa, I think what the two of them are
trying to do. But it is not one of the sports that I watch, like follow day-to-day. 
 
Q. Do you feel your game is where you want it to be at this stage of the tournament?
 
 MONICA SELES: I think so. Obviously you want to be patient for the first few matches
and just play some great tennis. I hit a lot of balls. I think that is good. Spend quite a
lot of time on both courts. But it is just -- it is almost like a new tournament really
from certain rounds on, so many things can happen. So I will just keep practicing and stay
focused and worry about my next match. I am out of doubles. I only have to worry about my
singles now. 
 
Q. Is the next match a beginning of a second tournament?
 
 MONICA SELES: In some way I think so, definitely. I mean, you just got to be focused
from first point on and raise your level of game. But all of us, I think. 
 
Q. Do you ever sit with Steffi in the locker room, whatever, if you ever see her and
just talk about how things have changed a little bit since you guys were young?
 
 MONICA SELES: No, Steffi as far as we have really gone is: Hi. That was it. 
 
Q. When Martina has asked who would win the tournament she always mentions you.
 
 MONICA SELES: Oh Martina is too nice. 
 
Q. She never mentions Steffi. Seems to be almost -- do you find that a little strange
that she doesn't put Steffi in there with the rest of you?
 
 MONICA SELES: I don't know. I think you have to ask Martina that. But I just like
Martina. I think she is just a great No. 1 player. She talks to players. She is friendly.
You can just go up to her and talk to her and have a normal conversation. I just admire
her so much for that. She was like that when she came on the Tour and now since she has
been No. 1 for a year or year and a half, and she hasn't changed. That says, I think, a
lot about her and her mom's upbringing of her. 
 
Q. Is that how you were when you were No. 1?
 
 MONICA SELES: I think at some periods I was and some periods I wasn't. I think I had
four, five friends when I first became No. 1 and the rest of them, the furthest I got was
"Hi." For my case, I can speak for sure, it came from out of shyness. I was just
terrified to look anyone in the eye because I haven't been around that many kids, but like
end of '92 it changed a lot, I think. But I always had the same friends that I could talk
to. But they were not as many - I think probably Martina is more friendly to a lot more
people than I was at that time. 
 
Q. Who are the friends?
 
 MONICA SELES: I really always was good friends with Arantxa, Mary Joe, Helena, so, just
pretty much -- I mean, now obviously I talk to a lot more players, but I still have the
friendship, I will go out with them to diner at tournaments and different things. 
 
Q. When that came up last -- when the controversy, small controversy last year came up
about the Williams sisters being -- not being friendly, did you think back to the time a,
number of years ago when you were criticized for that?
 
 MONICA SELES: Mine was different. Only player that ever criticized me was Gigi
Fernandez and a lot of players came to me in the locker room and I went up to her -- she
is the only player that ever said anything about me. Everybody else never said anything.
It is hard for me to say because I don't want to get into that stuff, but what is
happening now, it is a different generation, totally different personalities. I don't
think Steffi and I were as cocky or in terms of -- felt we deserve this and that before we
got to be No. 1 and won all those Grand Slams. That is why and they haven't done that yet.
Once they do it, I am sure they will. No question. So that is why I just don't think it is
fair when everybody compares Martina and the group - Williams, Anna and Mirjana because
she is quite a few titles ahead of them.  
 
Q. So if you become a No. 1 or have a Grand Slam win --
 
 MONICA SELES: Then you can say those things, because you can back them up, but they
haven't backed it up yet. That is just my feeling. Then in some ways it is great what they
are doing because they are bringing excitement to it and they feel that way. So it is
their right to express themselves that way too. 
 
Q. How did you get over your shyness? You certainly don't appear shy to most of us.
 
 MONICA SELES: Well, I still will not go up to people that I don't know. I still -- I
think probably having a life a little bit outside of tennis, once the stabbing happened, I
think in 1993 I had -- really was really sick for like two months before I played Hamburg
because I didn't play for like 2 1/2 months before Hamburg. I think just as a person I
changed and a little bit more open because I, as a child growing up, my father's biggest
worry was that always am too focused on one thing. That I need to be slowed down. So.... 
 
Q. Do you think when these kids finally do win something that they be totally
unbearable?
 
 MONICA SELES: I am curious to see that. I like them. I get along with them all, each
one is unique, different personalities. But we will just have to see, but they are -- I
mean, they are 17 and 18, so, gosh it is so different when you -- those years I remember
when I came on the Tour, first time I didn't have a person really close to my age -
Martina and Chris and they -- wait, Monica, 'til when you get there, you think differently
and you definitely think differently. They are so lucky to have each other to relate to
each other a little bit and not feel totally alone in the locker room. When I came, first
years I just felt totally alone in the locker room because I couldn't relate to anybody.
And everybody knew already -- everybody is: Here comes this new kid, who is a total
outsider and so that is when Jennifer came along. I think is why I think we got along so
well because we could just relate to each other and it was such a nice feeling. I think
all the youngsters have that advantage right now. 
 
Q. Did the older players -- was there one who reached out and showed you the ropes?
 
 MONICA SELES: Nobody, really. No. That is why it was so intimidating to be in there. I
am sure everybody -- first time you meet the No. 1 or the players -- for me, I -- really
just seeing Chrissy and Martina and suddenly next two if they say, hi, you think: Wow,
that is huge. I say, hi, and they just walk by. And I think -- I talked to both Chrissy
and Martina. They thought they were shy to come up to me and talk to me more, but I felt
the same way too. So that automatically assumed both of your are really stuck up, but
really it's not the case. It was intimidating. For me, it was, that is my personality. 
 
Q. The obvious follow-up now as a veteran --
 
 MONICA SELES: (Laughs) 
 
Q. -- Do you ever reach out or do you pretty much stick to yourself in terms of the
younger players?
 
 MONICA SELES: I reach out if they ask me, but I will not go up to them and offer any
advice or anything. If they ask me, I definitely will talk to them. Obviously to the
players that I know even more so, but they will do the same thing to me. Otherwise if I
don't know them, I feel very uncomfortable going up to anybody. 
 
Q. Was it a tremendous competitiveness in the early '90s that kept you and Steffi from
ever getting close? In other words, there was a coolness that kept --
 
 MONICA SELES: I think it is just hard with Steffi -- if you ask anybody on the Tour,
not too many of them have any friendships with -- like with Martina, you can say, like
with Mary Joe, I think it is Steffi's personality. I don't mean it is good or bad. I want
to make that clear. I think with Steffi that we both practiced early so we would just see
each other early in the morning say: Hi; then we wouldn't see each other until the finals
because we played during the days. That was really it. So it is just different. It is a
different personality Steffi has. I think, you know, Martina had a different one. Chrissy
too. Martina, I did, I think we have a lot of similarities, No. 1s, but totally different
personalities too. 
 
Q. Do you think that 24 is a veteran's age?
 
 MONICA SELES: No, I don't think. It all depends how much you take care of your body. 
 
Q. You are talking like you are old.
 
 MONICA SELES: I talked like this when I was 16 because everybody said I grew up way too
fast. But I had to, so, I don't know. It doesn't matter to me really. I don't care. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT