US OPEN
August 31, 1998
Monica Seles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Why did you destroy the stock market?

MONICA SELES: Oh, stop it. When I left it was at 43 points, so the chairman said when I
left: Oh, you brought the stock market up. He was so nice, any time I can come back, win
or lose, I have got to come back. I am not sure after this he wants me back, but -- oh, it
is scary.

Q. Can you talk a little bit about how you got your game back up to such a high level?

MONICA SELES: I just think I started working hard. I mean, Gavin couldn't be with me in
the California tournaments. Once he came to Montreal, I felt my game slowly getting better
so, that has helped tremendously. I just think -- I don't know, I think also, you know,
the hard work started paying off a little bit more. And I went from my shots at key times,
which I didn't do before. But that comes obviously with more confidence.

Q. It really makes a difference to have Gavin there?

MONICA SELES: I think it did, definitely. I think for me it was very difficult because
after I left for Federation Cup I played some great tennis there. I had a horrible back
problem once I got off the plane in San Francisco and it was just gone for me, San
Francisco was just a tournament that I didn't even know what I was doing. After that one,
I think I kind of got down because I was so tired, just really the whole season was
getting me a little bit tired, I think. So it was just nice to get some fresh energy going
again.

Q. Did you work with him after Montreal? You were off a week --

MONICA SELES: Yes, back in Florida, yes.

Q. Could you talk about just the general level of competition right now on the women's
Tour; whether you think it is at an unprecedented high level?

MONICA SELES: I think definitely it starting from the first round to the quarters, it
is a lot tougher. Like before you would maybe have one or two -- not floaters, who you
could get on the tough side of the draw like if you would be No. 1 you could get Jennifer
in the quarters. Now we have two, three players that you kind of had to play in the
quarters not only in a Grand Slam tournament, but a lot of times in Tier I tournaments, so
it is very tough. I think there are a few floaters that none of us once really faced in
the early rounds. It is just different. I think the girls are just getting physically so
much bigger. I mean, a lot of girls out there are just so tall, just naturally they have
the height and much more athletic than before. I think that is just a big advantage and
with the longer rackets, everybody is hitting the ball harder.

Q. Do you think it has reached a level of parity with so many different competitors
winning so many different tournaments?

MONICA SELES: I think so. And I think this year has definitely proved that. There are
so many different winners on the COREL Tour, no question. And very different styles of
game too.

Q. Talk about your match tonight. Seemed like she had a lot of confidence; was swinging
pretty freely?

MONICA SELES: I just think I had so much chances on her serve in the first set and I
just started pushing the ball back, but it is always tough to play another lefty on the
serve and it was windy out there, so it is hard for me to get the timing. I was probably a
little bit nervous, first match. It is normal. At 5-2, it was too bad I didn't close the
first set-off. When she got back, at least I raised my level when it was needed and that
helped, but she was running down some great shots and I really was just staying in some
points and amazingly well. It is always tough. I had to really work hard for every single
point. I didn't get too many free points. I kind of knew that coming into this match
because I played a tough one against her a year and a half ago.

Q. When you hear about what is going on with Mirjana, her father, what is your
reaction? Does it make you sad?

MONICA SELES: I really don't want to get into that. It is between her and her dad and
her family.

Q. What would winning the US Open this year mean to you?

MONICA SELES: Obviously, I mean, any time you win a Grand Slam it means a lot. But, you
know, I have never thought about even when I was No. 1 and people said, for sure she is
going to win the Open in '92 that I will or I won't. For me I just love to hit the ball
and just strive to improve really every time. Hopefully that will produce some great wins,
obviously, that will be a tremendous feeling. But right now I just feel I just need to
keep working hard and just go forward.

Q. Did winning at Montreal surprise you because I know you feel like you are a couple
months away?

MONICA SELES: Pretty much. I didn't feel that I was playing some great tennis in
Montreal personally. I mean, I think I definitely raised my level the last two matches, I
think. But I was still missing a lot of balls. I think I went a little up in my tension in
my racket which has helped, which before, I felt if I touched the ball and it would be
flying. That I think helped. But it did -- I can't say it surprised me because I really
expected to win some of those California tournaments, but I felt coming into them I messed
up a few things and I think I let it bother me too long. I was just thinking about, that
is okay, I could still do well at the tournament. Going into Montreal, I think -- it
doesn't matter that I messed up, that is a done deal; I wouldn't do that next time, but
you still have that tournament and I think that mindset helped me tremendously.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT