SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE CHAMPIONSHIP GAME: GEORGIA v ALABAMA
November 26, 2012
Jarvis Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  THE MODERATOR:   Could you address Georgia as they enter the championship game in Atlanta on Saturday? 
JARVIS JONES:   It's just a wonderful opportunity for us.   I mean Bulldog Nation to get a chance to play in this game means so much to us.   We're just looking forward to it.   Very happy.   Had a great season thus far.   Lot of guys sacrificed a lot, many hours, practices, fighting through injuries and all that stuff just to get to the point where we are today.   We're just grateful for this opportunity.

Q.   You guys were involved in one of the games last week that obviously bolstered the image of the SEC yet again.   Now you're in essentially a one‑game playoff for the BCS title game.   If you can put yourself back in the shoes of someone who is picking a college, this league is so good, obviously, I wondered do you think it mean even matters anymore to see events like last weekend with what the SEC went through with the ACC?   Has the league gotten so good does this stuff even residential center anymore with people externally? 
JARVIS JONES:   I really don't know.   I think for us we can only control what we've got.   Last week was Georgia Tech, and that was our main focus was to control what we have in front of us just taking advantage of our opportunity.   I think our coaches did a great job of game planning and staying focused and not letting outside things distract us.

Q.   You kind of I guess are looking forward to facing a more conventional offense this week, but still the triple option the last two weeks.   But you're facing a much more talented offense that can run and pass.   What kind of challenge is that going to make for the Bulldog defense? 
JARVIS JONES:   A great challenge, a great challenge.   A well‑respected program from over the nation.   They're capable of doing a lot of things, running, passing the ball.   They've got tremendous athletes that can take the ball to the house and make big plays when they need to.   For us it's about discipline, and understanding our game plan, and understanding what we're doing and doing it our best.   We've got to make plays and get off the field and give our offense a chance to score the ball.

Q.   This defense has played light's out since the Florida game.   What was it that really clicked?   The whole Shawn Williams thing was a big part of the Florida game.   But how have you been able to stay so consistent since then? 
JARVIS JONES:   I think everybody just locked in and understood why we're here and what we're doing this for.   Obviously, we made some goals early on at the beginning to come back and get to the point where we are today.   I think SouthCarolina did a great job of reminding us and humbling us and got us on the right path.   And you know, Shawn's stepped up and been the big leader that he is.   That was a turning point for us of giving guys to see that we've got to work hard and we've got to improve every day.   Then the guy just locked into it.   We've been focused and we've been disciplined and very coachable.   That got us to the point where we are today.

Q.   Do you think the defense lost focus at the beginning of the season compared to now? 
JARVIS JONES:   I think we got a couple distractions, couple guys suspended, and people expecting so much out of us.   You're hearing this, you're hearing that.   And I think it took that to get us back to where we are today.   Things happened.   I think we're playing great ball right now.   Guys are focused, and we're making plays and enjoying our season.

Q.   Since it is basically a play‑in game to the BCS title game, how much do you use that as motivation or maybe a carrot at the end of the stick for this weekend? 
JARVIS JONES:   We understand the weight that this game holds.   It's a big challenge for us.   I mean, it's a great opportunity, so we really want to make the best of it.   We're glad to get to this point.   We've worked tremendously hard all season, and off‑season, our focus is to go in here and give it everything we've got.   We understand if we win this game we'll play in the title game.

Q.   The fact that Notre Dame will be on the other side of that, does that matter at all to you?   Does that interest you or completely ignoring who will be there at the other end of it? 
JARVIS JONES:   It doesn't matter.   Like I said earlier, man, we only can control what we have and that's us.   If we do what we're supposed to do against anybody, I think we've got a great chance of winning.   If we do what we're supposed to do, execute, and make plays, you've just got to go out there and play ball no matter who you're playing.

Q.   Your defense, when Coach Grantham came in there and put that defense in the three‑four, and you look at your personnel, is that pretty much a perfect fit for the way you guys like to play and the kind of players that you have right now? 
JARVIS JONES:   I think we've got a great group of guys that understand the defense with the help of our coaches.   Our coaches took us from just being football players to students of the game and really understanding the concept of our defense and why we do what we do.   That's allowed us to play fast.   It's allowed us to play comfortable and understand where you can be in a defense.   Knowing you have that. 
I love this defense, actually.   I think it's one of the best defenses and a lot of the teams play it.   Alabama plays the same defense, and they're dominant in it as well.

Q.   Coach Todd has said Saban is sort of his mentor.   He got his first break from Coach Saban.   How much do you think this game along those lines means to Coach Grantham going up against Saban and that same type of defense. 
JARVIS JONES:   This game holds a lot of weight.   I know Coach Grantham wants this game bad, Coach Saban too.   I want this game and personally a lot of the guys do.   It's going to be a lifetime game for 60 minutes.   A lot of hard hitting, just a lot of fighting in this game for 60 minutes.   I'm excited to see it. 
I know Coach Grantham will be pumped up.   It's going to be an exciting game on a national stage.   I mean, everybody's going to be going crazy. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT