ANA INSPIRATION
April 4, 2021
Jin Young Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Jin Young, nice overall tournament you put together, capped by a 4-under 68 today.  Take us through how nice it was to put a low number up today.
 JIN YOUNG KO:   I was so tired on the front nine because I haven't much for the birdie chance, so I couldn't make birdie a lot of the front nine.  But I had great finish, strong, so I'm happy right now.
 Q. Yeah, take us through that.  Three birdies over the final three holes.  For as tired as you were on the front nine you finished very strong.  I feel like that would make you leave the ANA Inspiration with a good feeling.
 JIN YOUNG KO:   Yeah, I was trying.  I have to -- I had to strong finish last three holes, so I got three birdies and I wanted to jump into the Poppy's Pond.
 Q. Cool off?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   Yeah, I need it.  (Laughter.)  Yeah, I can't wait for next year.
 Q. You're a past champion here obviously at this event.  This was your first time competing at this event since you last won.  When you can see somebody like Lydia 10-under today and Patty, the way she's played, how does it resemble what you were able to do in 2019?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   Yeah, they are really good player.  I practice with Patty last Tuesday or Wednesday and she hits really far, she putts really good.  So, yeah, she's going to be good player, yes.
 Q. The way you finish this tournament and Kia leave you in a good spot feeling like you'll be able to find the winner's circle sooner than later?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   Yeah, yeah, yeah.  I think win is coming soon.  I think, so I hope.  And I will practice harder and just I will do better than better.
 Q. Plans for the week off lead into Hawaii?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   No, L.A.
 Q. Oh, before L.A.?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   Yeah.
 Q. What are your plans for the two weeks off?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   I will go to the Texas and I will -- yeah, I will looking for the furnitures.  It's going to be fun.
 Q. Still enjoying that?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   Yeah.
 Q. Last one I have for you.  Masters this week, second major of the golf season.  Any favorites that you would like to see win maybe?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   I hope Sungjae Im.  Yeah, I hope he's going to be win for the Masters because he finish second last year.  He had really good performance out there, so I can't wait to watch it.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT