GAINBRIDGE LPGA
February 23, 2021
Jin Young Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  THE MODERATOR:   Jin Young, welcome to Gainbridge.  It's been so long since we've seen you.  How is it being back?  What did you do during the off weeks?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   Well, back to Korea after CME, so I had great time my life with my friends and with new coaches.
 So I had a lot of practice and a lot of resting time during the off-season, so I'm happy to here.
 THE MODERATOR:   Speaking of CME, you won.  Did you do anything to celebrate?  Anything big?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   I can't remember, but I think I did.  (Laughter.)  Yes.
 THE MODERATOR:   Any cakes or any celebration?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   Yeah, I did.  With MJ, at MJ house in Texas after CME.
 THE MODERATOR:   She's quite the cook and chef.  She always has food on Instagram.
 JIN YOUNG KO:   Yep.
 THE MODERATOR:   Well welcome Gainbridge.  What are you looking forward to this week?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   Well, this week it's going to be first event of the 2021, so looking forward what is going to good performance.  So I want to see, and then I can't wait to play on Thursday.
 THE MODERATOR:   Where in your game do you feel the strongest?  Putting?  Short game?  Long game?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   Well, I hope everything.  (Laughter.)  But I think I change a little bit of my swing, so I want to see how do I swing on the course.
 THE MODERATOR:   There is so much to look forward to this week, and also Annika Sorenstam is playing here and competing.  How do you feel about that as world No. 1 right now?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   Yeah, I heard Annika playing this week, so I was surprised because she did retire many years ago so I was thinking I can't playing with Annika anymore.  But she is come back this week, and hopefully I want to play with Annika, but I don't know.
 Q. We definitely want to see you and Annika playing together as well.  Also this week, Aon Risk-Reward Challenge.  The hole is on 15 and it's a par-5.  Any ideas with 2021 starting how you're going to think about the Aon Risk-Reward Challenge this year?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   Well, I didn't play 15 yet so I don't know how to shape the hole.  But, well, if the score at the Aon risk challenging holes is going to be fun.
 And then the money is really great here, so cross fingers.
 Q. Are you a risk taker?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   Yep.  (Laughter.)
 Q. What was it like traveling home to Korea and then coming back compared with the COVID situation last year?  Was travel easier?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   Well, I heard Biden, America president, he says it's going to be like -- you have to quarantine when you back to U.S.
 So I heard that, so I had to this season come back to U.S. earlier.  So I back to right now, but I needed little more off-season time, but I don't want to be -- I don't want to do quarantine anymore, especially two weeks in U.S.
 Q. Where do you stay when you're playing in America, like for next week and through ANA?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   Airbnb.
 Q. And last thing.  I think you were 13 when Annika announced her retirement.  What do you remember about her as a player when you were a young girl?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   Well, I was -- when I was ten years old I started playing golf, but she retire when I e was 13 years old, so I usually -- I'm not sure to know Annika; just I heard Annika is legend.
 But I want to play with her this week.
 Q. She's 50.  Does that seem old to you?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   (Smiling.)  No.  No.  (Shaking head.)
 Q. And lastly, what is your schedule through ANA?  What do you plan to do?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   I'm not sure because we're not sure about the playing Asia, so I'm looking for the how to change of schedule in Asia.  So I will decision soon.
 THE MODERATOR:   Anymore questions?  I will ask a question about March.  March is coming up, and it's National Women's History month.  For you, were there any women that you looked up to as you were growing up outside of golf maybe and outside of your family, maybe a political figure or celebrity that you looked up to?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   Well, my mom.  My mommy is strong and pretty.  Yeah.  I like my mom.  My mommy is role model for me.
 Q. It's been a long time, I think since Lydia, that someone was No. 1 in the world for the entire year, which you did last year.  Is that important to you, to try and stay at No. 1 as long as you can, and are you surprised you were able to do it last year with not leaving Korea?  That's going to need interpretation.
 JIN YOUNG KO:   It's a little pressure for me because I have to play well on the course every week, every day, every hole.  But I don't want to 100% perfect on the course.  Just I am human, so I can make mistakes, so I have to accept about that.
 So I am learning from the golf a lot of things, so on I want to get better and better day by day.  I'm fine.
 Q. One more thing.  You talked about the putting, tips or things from Brad Faxon, Steve Stricker.  Has anyone ever asked Jin Young Ko for putting advice?  And if they haven't, why haven't they?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   No, not yet.  No one has asked.
 Q. Would you take advice from you?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   How to putting well under pressure.  (Laughter.)
 THE MODERATOR:   My final question.  I just have one going off Doug there.  Jin Young, in four events last year you were still able to come out with a win in 2020.  As we look ahead to 2021 and we start this week at Gainbridge, what are some of the goals?  Have you made any goals for yourself knowing that you won in just four events last year?  Have you made any goals for yourself for 2021?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   Yes, I made it.  I made it, but I don't want to tell to media yet.  Okay?  (Laughter.)
 So I will keep my goal by myself, so, well, hopefully I can say my goal was like (indiscernible) to end of the year.
 THE MODERATOR:   So you'll let us know at the end of the year what your goals were.  I see.  Playing hard to get.  I get that.
 We have a quick question from Beth Ann for right now No. 1 in the world.  You yourself, fellow countrywomen, Sei Young Kim, at No. 2.  You got to play together at CME.  Is that like a rivalry in a sense?  Do you feel that, or is it just you focus on yourselves?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   Not really.  Not really.  Golf is just personal sport, not team, so if her play better she can win; if I play better, I can win.  So I don't want to like rivalry with her.  I want to fight just by myself on the course.
 THE MODERATOR:   Play yourself.  That's smart.  Thank you so much, and good luck this week.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT