CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
December 20, 2020
Jin Young Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  THE MODERATOR:   All right, everyone, welcome inside the CME Group Tour Championship.  We're here with champion, Jin Young Ko.
 First, Jin Young, I just want to talk about the fact that you were able to play your way into this event in just four events.  What does it mean to you with all the work that you have done in the past four events to get here and be sitting as the CME Group Tour Championship winner?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   I still can't believe it am I here.  And then I won this tournament, so just I want to thank to God, and then, I don't know, he makes my plan.  Not me.  Just I did nothing.  Just he makes everything, so I just want to thank God and I can't believe right now.
 Q. You can't believe it.  What were you thinking at the beginning of the day?  What were some of your expectations as you took on this final round?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   Well, when I was -- before the tee off I just think, Okay, 18 holes left and I go home, so just relax and just enjoy, just keep it up.
 I just reminding my mind just one thing, and just I prayed all the time on the course and I enjoyed it.
 Q. Did your confidence go up when you made that birdie on No. 1 to start off your round?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   Yes, of course, because I hit the driver from the tee, but ball goes way left.  I don't know what was happen, but ball goes way left.
 But it doesn't out of bounds.  It was -- lie was good, and then it was good things from the start hole, and I got birdies 1st hole from that lie.  That was that situation.
 So I was think, Something will be happen.  So we'll see.  And then I talked with Dave and then, yeah, it was good win.
 Q. A birdie then on No. 6.  You had your first bogey on No. 9 since day one.  You've had those incredible bogey-free streaks.  What does that say about your golf game being able to go bogey-free like that?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   Well, I would say my swing is not perfect right now, so I'm -- I have to try and more better, more better, getting better.
 But I had win, so I want to say swing is just swing.  Swing is -- you don't have to perfect swing on the course.  Just I would say just feel it and your body and your muscle and just keep going.
 That's what I want to say.
 Q. That bogey putt was unfortunately after that par putt.  What did you say to yourself, because you really turned it on with five more birdies on your back nine?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   Yeah, it was great bogey.  (Laughter.)  I was think I had lucky, but unlucky, too.
 Well, I don't know.  Just I want to looking for 2021, for next year.
 Q. And being able to close with a birdie, what was that like for you?  When did it sink in that you were taking the lead and running with it?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   Last hole?
 Q. You birdied 18, but it was the last one of the five.  When did you realize maybe that you had the lead?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   I didn't see the scoreboard, like I just feel, okay, I am leader, so I wanted to just keep going.
 And then just focus on my body and mind.  And then Dave told me, Do you know what's going to happen?  I don't know.  Says, I know just one thing.  I am leader right now.
 He said, You are four-stroke leader, so you can enjoy this time.  When I arrive at the green he told me Lorena Ochoa, she always say, Dave, professionals have to perfect finish.
 So that was my motivation for my last putt.  So I made it.  I would say just thank you Dave and Lorena.
 Q. When did Dave tell you that advice?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   Just we got on the green, yeah, before when I putt.
 Q. On the final hole?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   Yeah.
 Q. And then you go and birdie it?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   Yeah.
 Q. So that's just quite an accomplishment for you.
 JIN YOUNG KO:   Yeah.
 Q. With it, you were this whole round with Sei Young Kim.  I know you talked about how you played with her on the KLPGA and you two are No. 1 and 2 in the world.  What was it like chasing her lead today and also playing with her?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   It was tough because we had to competition on the course last three days in the row, so I want to say just sorry to her.  She does play really good, but I was little more better than her, so I win.
 So, I don't know.  It was tough, but we had great competition.
 Q. You are the reigning Rolex Player the Year.  With Sei Young's finish she become the Rolex Player of the Year 2020.  What do you think about what she's done this year as well as what you've done?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   Yeah, she has the great season 2020, but because she played some events in Korea, and then she got U.S., so she played just few events, not a lot.
 But she did win major and the other one, too.  But she has great season so she got the Player of the Year.  I just had four events this year, so, yeah, congrats on me.
 Q. How much did you think about the $1.1 million prize out there?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   Well, I looked house in the States until this morning because I had no money in my bank account because I send to Korea all my money.  (Laughter.)
 So I needed money for buy the house.  But, yeah, I can buy house right now.
 Q. Was that the goal, to buy the house?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   Of course, yeah.
 Q. And did you allow yourself to think about the house out there?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   Uh-huh, yes.
 Q. It was your motivation?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   Yep.  (Smiling.)
 Q. I love that.  And you're looking at Texas, correct?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   Yes, I will go back to Texas.
 Q. You said a minute ago that your swing wasn't perfect yet.  Looked pretty good on the back nine.  What is it that you're trying to accomplish that you didn't like about your swing?  You just won by five shots.
 JIN YOUNG KO:   Well, when I looked my swing I couldn't see my swing, so I think my swing is not perfect.  But after Pelican this year I just wanted to try feel it on the course, just don't think about my mechanic of my swing and like small things, too.
 Just I want to focus on my body and muscle, and then I enjoyed it.  Yeah, I don't know what happened to my swing right now, but I had win, so I want to say to my fans just don't think about swing and don't have to perfect swing on the course.
 Just made the putt inside ten feet.  It's more better and more important I want to say.
 Q. Is this going to be your first house that you've bought in the States?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   Yes.
 Q. Oh, wow.  That's so exciting.  Why did you choose Texas?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   Well, because I -- MJ, you know, MJ Hur, and then we are really good friends, so she lives in Dallas, Texas, Frisco.  I looking for the house in Frisco nearest to by her house.
 So and then I stayed her house a week maybe two weeks ago, and she help me a lot for the food and resting.  So, I like Frisco right now.
 Q. Cool.  As soon as you came back on the LPGA Tour this year you were talking about wanting to qualify for this event.  Were you nervous at all about how your game might stack up against LPGA tour players who had been competing all season?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   No, not really.  Just, yeah, the other players play maybe over ten tournaments, but I had just four events this year.
 So I don't want to comparing with the other players.  Just me is just me.  The other one is the other players.  So I don't care about the other players.  I want -- I just thank God and parents and family and my manager.
 THE MODERATOR:   As we wrap up here, we close out this 2020 season on a high.  What are some of your plans for the off-season?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   Well, first one is buy the house, and I'm thinking back to Korea or just staying my new house, looking for the furnitures.  Yeah, I'm ready for the 2021 already.
 Q. Are you going back to Texas tonight?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   Yep.  I don't have time.
 Q. So the goal is to get back to Texas right away?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   Yep.
 THE MODERATOR:   I want to thank everyone for a wonderful 2020 season, and thank you for joining us today on our last press conference.
 JIN YOUNG KO:   Okay, thank you.  Bye.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT