CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 24, 2019
Jin Young Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Jin Young Ko with a 65 on moving day. You share the lead here in Canada. How would you describe the round today?
JIN YOUNG KO: I played great today. I played with Nicole. She played awesome, too.
Then a lot of people, like Koreans out there, so they were cheer me up every hole, every shot. I enjoy and play good today.
Q. You two were going low out there. Do you feel like you were feeding off each other?
JIN YOUNG KO: Yes. And then I got birdie like every par-5 today, so this is really good. I'm looking forward.
Q. You're bogey-free for the week still. What's been the key to your consistency here?
JIN YOUNG KO: Just wake up my brain. (Laughter.) That's it.
Q. What does that entail?
JIN YOUNG KO: Just like try keep big eyes open, big eyes like this. That's it.
Q. You're going into the final round tied for the lead. What's your game plan? Will you be more aggressive at all on Sunday?
JIN YOUNG KO: Yeah, always. And then I think I will play with Brooke hopefully, and then we will play awesome, yeah, for tomorrow.
Q. You were playing almost as though you two had your own match going out there today, you and Nicole. Both of you played really well. How do you feel about your game today?
JIN YOUNG KO: Yeah, I had great game today. Then I got birdies every par-5 today, so that is good to me.
Also, Nicole play well today, but me too, so I will focus on my game for tomorrow.
Q. Did you have in any sense of what was happening in the group ahead you? Henderson just had a string of birdies on the back nine. Did you hear the roar of the crowd or did you see the leaderboard and know she was catching up to you and Nicole?
JIN YOUNG KO: Yeah, I heard every holes crowd front group, like Brooke's group, so I know. I know like she's Canadian and here is Canada, so this is for sure like cheer her up every hole, every shot to Brooke. So I think I will play with Brooke tomorrow and hopefully great game both. Yeah.
Q. You're used to playing in front of big crowds yourself though. You won't be nervous tomorrow?
JIN YOUNG KO: I'm not worry anything. Like still. Many Koreans here. Will they cheer up me.
Q. How have you been able to be so consistent this year?
JIN YOUNG KO: I think my drive is getting longer than last year. That's why I play so good this year.
So putting every little lower than last year. Everything is better, getting better than last year. Yeah.
Q. Was your drive distance something you worked on?
JIN YOUNG KO: Like hit hard or work out, practice hard every day with coach. So coach help me a lot, but short game area or putting green, too. That's why I getting better.
Q. What will be your strategy for the final round to try to lift the trophy?
JIN YOUNG KO: I don't want to think about trophy. I will just try think my game, like my body feeling, how can I like shot by shot. Yeah, that's it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT