CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 19, 2019
Jin Young Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: All right, everyone, we're here with Jin Young Ko, the Rolex No. 1 player. Jin Young, this has been an incredible, incredible year for you. Four wins, already clinched player of the year; 12 Top 10s, so you won the leaders Top 10 Award.   
79% greens in regulation; just over a 69% scoring average. Is it possible for you to pick a single highlight, one highlight of your year?   
JIN YOUNG KO: I would say four wins and then two majors, yeah.   
THE MODERATOR: Yeah. What about those experiences, those four wins, really stands out to you? Started at Founder's Cup then a win at ANA, a win at Evian, a win in Canada. What about those was so special for you?   
JIN YOUNG KO: Bank of Hope was first time win to the States, then second one ANA, first major; Evian, second major; last one, bogey-free round. Also 114 holes bogey-free. That is really special to me.   
THE MODERATOR: That is so hard to comprehended, to understand, 114 holes bogey-free. When you think back on it, are you surprised you were able to do that? That was amazing.   
JIN YOUNG KO: Yeah, it was incredible. I think was in August and I didn't think too much about bogey. Like think about shots other than bogey, par or birdie. That's all I could do. I didn't think about bogey at all.   
THE MODERATOR: So the answer being I didn't think about birdie. I thought about any shot other than a bogey. So that's what got you through.   
But earlier this year in Australia you said your goal was to be the happiest player on the golf course. Did you meet that goal?   
JIN YOUNG KO: Yeah, I think so.   
THE MODERATOR: What about you makes you such a happy player?   
JIN YOUNG KO: Just life. That is really -- I'm happy because I'm alive. I want to thank everything about being alive.   
THE MODERATOR: You're happy because you're alive, because of your fans and your friends. I know you believe in God. Those are all things that drive you in your life to be happy?   
JIN YOUNG KO: For sure. Of course, uh-huh.   
THE MODERATOR: We come here to Tiburon where you've played well, but you're coming in off three weeks off. Very tired I'm sure at the end of a long season.   
How do you feel as you come here this week and the season-ending event?   
JIN YOUNG KO: Last year I finish this tournament and I stay two weeks more with short game coach and with my parents and her. So my feeling is just over 2018 and this week, like I can't believe between last year and this tournament, like between other tournament.   
So like...   
INTERPRETER: (Indiscernible.)   
THE MODERATOR: Okay, so just thinking combined to last year as well.   
JIN YOUNG KO: Yeah. So my feeling is first tournament of the year.   
THE MODERATOR: Oh, okay. Really? That's interesting. Are you feeling well physically with your time off?   
JIN YOUNG KO: I was withdraw in Taiwan. My ankle was weaker and still weaker, too, so I did ice every night 20 minutes with the ice.   
So I hopefully getting better, and then but this week is last, so will be fine.   
THE MODERATOR: Open it up for questions.   
 Q.  How did you injure your ankle and how much pain do you feel just walking around in daily life?  
JIN YOUNG KO: Like here and then outside, so when I hit the ball and I did finish, and then like too tight here, so painful like outside. Then sometimes walk and then painful inside.   
So don't know. I need to rest.   
 Q.  Were you worried at any point that you might not be able to play this week?  
JIN YOUNG KO: Yeah. Yeah, uh-huh, and still worried a little bit.   
 Q.  Oh, wow. How did you do it? How did you hurt your ankle?  
JIN YOUNG KO: I don't know. Just I practice swing at the Taiwan No. 18 from the tee and then I couldn't swing again. Then I said to (indiscernible), Can you hit ahead from me? Then she said, Yeah, and then I rest maybe one minute or 50 second, and then I hit the ball from the tee and then I walked; a little bit still painful.   
So after round I went to the physical and locker and I had massage and then I did tape my leg to legs. Then I sleep -- I slept but still pain, but I shoot 1-over so I want to try get under par second round or third round.   
But after second round like more painful, and then third round I had tape in the morning and then I hit maybe 11 holes, I played 11 holes and then I can't. I couldn't anymore.   
So I said to caddie, I can't play anymore. He said, Okay, you don't have to play. You need rest. Because in Taiwan was my fifth week, so he knew. Then I play three weeks in Korea and then back two weeks playing Korea and back to China and back to BMW and then Taiwan.   
So he knows. And then after withdraw and then I go back to Korea, straight go to Korea, and then on Sunday rest and on Monday I go -- I went to hospital and then I was shot in my ankles. Yeah, just rest all week.   
Then I practice maybe just one or two days on Monday and Tuesday and then I was here.   
THE MODERATOR: We're glad to have you back then.   
 Q.  It's hard to be happy when you're getting shot in your ankle, right?  
JIN YOUNG KO: Yeah.   
 Q.  Okay. What do you consider the best shot you hit all year and why?  
JIN YOUNG KO: It's a hardest one, but I would say in Canada. I have two, two memory. First one is last round of Evian, No. 13. I had long birdie putt, and then that's No. 2. Then No. 1 was in Canada last round, No. 9. Like I made par. I did unplayable but I make par, so that is...   
 Q.  Third shot?  
JIN YOUNG KO: Yeah, yeah, 50 meters from the rough. (Laughter.)   
 Q.  How close?  
JIN YOUNG KO: Two meters.   
 Q.  Good shot.  
JIN YOUNG KO: Thank you.   
THE MODERATOR: It was a very good shot. Further questions for Jin Young?   
 Q.  You shaved almost one stroke off your scoring average. How much of that was the short game improvements that you made this last year?  
JIN YOUNG KO: I would say first one is putting, and then I fixed a lot about putting, my setup or putting, putters, club. Putting.   
And then chipping around green, uh-huh.   
 Q.  And you switched to Gareth before the start of this year. How much has he helped you and what do you like about him?  
JIN YOUNG KO: Over 70% about my short game, uh-huh. That's a lot.   
I want to say thank you to Gareth for coming to almost all the tournaments in the States. He was able to adjust my setups when I'm tired, so he's been really helpful to my game throughout this season.   
 Q.  And then I didn't quite follow. 70% you said in the answer. What did you mean by that?  
THE INTERPRETER: Better than last year, her short game.   
THE MODERATOR: So short game is 70% better than it was last year, and thank you to Gareth for coming to see you in the States so much and working on your game?   
JIN YOUNG KO: Yes.   
THE MODERATOR: Perfect.   
 Q.  Two questions. First, if someone were to win this week and win the money title, do you think that would be fair for you considering the year you had?  
JIN YOUNG KO: I would say yeah. It's fine, because that is a really great motivation to me so I will keep harder, even more keep harder. I think until rank ten then they have chance to, so we will be fine. I'm fine.   
 Q.  Happy?  
JIN YOUNG KO: Yeah.   
 Q.  Second question. When you started playing, did you have a favorite golfer that wasn't a Korean?  
THE MODERATOR: That was not Korean.   
JIN YOUNG KO: Yeah, a lot. And then I like Brad Faxon.   
 Q.  Why?  
JIN YOUNG KO: He's good, great putting, yeah. And then I met him at the U.S. Open last year, and then I did -- I had handshake with Brad Faxon before the round. (Laughter.)   
Then I got one putt, No. 1, 2, 3 holes, and then I told to my caddie, I don't want to like hand wash. (Laughter.) I shoot really good.   
THE MODERATOR: Has Brad ever heard this story? He has now. (Laughter.) Anything further for Jin Young?   
 Q.  How much did you study Brad's stroke?  
JIN YOUNG KO: A lot. Like until 15 years -- 15 years until 19, and then I watched every day YouTube, like his video. So my putting was really good like 18 years old, 19.   
He's good.   
THE MODERATOR: Brad Faxon, uber fan.   
 Q.  I'm curious now. Do you think that you would be the putter you are today if you hadn't done that? Do you think he had significant influence?  
JIN YOUNG KO: No.   
THE MODERATOR: Did he influence you a lot?   
JIN YOUNG KO: Yeah, yes.   
THE MODERATOR: So you really think because of watching those videos is why you were better?   
JIN YOUNG KO: Uh-huh.   
THE MODERATOR: Anything in particular you look at in his stroke or was it just in general?   
JIN YOUNG KO: Oh, yeah. He did all the time a little bit forward press and then start to the backswing, and then I did that long time ago. Not now. I want to learning from Brad Faxon about putting.   
 Q.  Sorry to keep harping on this, but have you ever had a putting coach? And if not, have you ever considered calling Brad Faxon?  
JIN YOUNG KO: I don't had before Gareth, so I watched every time about Brad Faxon putting. So I think he a little bit expensive. (Laughter.) But I hope so.   
THE MODERATOR: After this he might give you a discount. I think we're good. We'll wrap things up. We are going ti run downstairs if anyone cares to join us. The commissioner has joined us in celebration of Jin Young winning the Leaders Top 10 Award for your top 10 finishes this year; 12 of them to earn $100,000 bonus. Congratulations. That's quite an honor for you.   
JIN YOUNG KO: Thank you.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you everybody.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT