BMW LADIES CHAMPIONSHIP
October 24, 2019
Jin Young Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: We are joined by Jin Young Ko   
Jin Young, the weather was not that gait today but we saw a big turnout. Can you tell us something about your play today?   
JIN YOUNG KO: I think I was surprised to see so many fans out there because of the weather, because it's just the first round. But the City of Busan and the people of Busan tend to be very dynamic, so I had a lot of fun out there today.   
As you know, Danielle Kang and Hye-Jin they have ties to Busan, so I tried to match them in terms of getting some of the gallery to support me.   
 Q.  So yesterday, the players were saying that they would be satisfied with a 1-under or an even par, but it seems that the scores today are quite low. What do you make of that?  
JIN YOUNG KO: Yes, I think that yesterday there was a lot of wind and no rain, so the greens were a lot firmer. Today with the rain coming and together, the greens were much softer, which meant that we had more birdie opportunities in our second shot and had we were attacking the pin. I think a lot of players had more chances to be aggressive and to create more birdie opportunities.   
 Q.  Can you give us a comparison about the course last year and this year? It seems to me that this course favors players that are accurate; who have accuracy in terms of their shots. So if you look at the long hitters on the LPGA Tour, even though this is the first time, they did not score so well. Do you think this is a course that favors long hitters or more accurate shots?  
JIN YOUNG KO: I think we played in Incheon last year and the fairways were much wider. It was favorable for long hitters because there was a lot of room off the tee. This course, the fairways are much more narrow and if you look at the landing zones, there are more bunkers and obstacles. I don't think you can say that it favors long hitters or short hitters, but you really need to make just the right shot in terms of distance.   
The greens are also not that wide and there are a lot of blind holes, so there are a lot of shots off the tee where you can't see the pin or the hole, so you really need to be accurate with your shots.   
 Q.  If you place sixth or better at this event, you will secure the Rolex Player of the Year. To do that here in Korea; would you like to secure the Rolex Player of the Year by winning this event?  
JIN YOUNG KO: I think it's too early to tell. I have 54 holes more to play, and of course if I were to receive that award through this event, it would be lovely. But I do not want to become a player that looks too far ahead and cannot focus on the game at hand. I really want to play well.   
I think the process is important. I think that all these accolades, they come along your way when you are in the process of perfecting on your game. I think if I work on my game and I perfect my game, I will receive the awards. What I really want to do is focus on what I can do now instead of looking too far ahead into the future.   
 Q.  So I understand that with this tournament, this will be the fifth consecutive tournament that you are playing in. So I'm sure going between China and Korea, that physically, this must put a strain on yourself. Can you tell us about that and what is your game plan? It seems that you were playing aggressive today?  
JIN YOUNG KO: To answer your second question first, I did not play very aggressively today. I just focused on the shots I can to do good. That was my plan for today.   
Of course, it is tiring physically. Last year I was playing six weeks straight, and at the time I needed a nap to be able to play in all these events. I think this time around, this is in Asia. I have been in Korea for two weeks and Shanghai is very close by, and then I have events in Korea and Taiwan coming up. It's not that bad compared to last year.   
Of course coming into this event, as well, before, I had a month break, and I knew that I had five weeks of competition coming up. So I really focused on getting physically ready, and I really took my time to get good rest.   
I think that I will be able to complete these next few rounds quite well.   
 Q.  You talked about in the past, five big dreams, five big goals that you wanted to achieve, and you said that you would reveal what it is when you achieve those goals. Can you tell us if you've achieved any of the five goals? And second, it seems that now you are making a profit off your YouTube channel, so can you comment on that?  
JIN YOUNG KO: With my YouTube channel, I got an advertisement and I looked at how much we were getting paid, and it was 10,000 Yuan. So it's not going to pay anything at this point.   
But I just want to emphasize that I didn't start this channel to make money. I wanted to really show my fans my daily life and I also wanted to personally record my life in its 25th year, so that when I grow older, I can reminisce.   
Honestly, to be honest, I can't remember what the five goals were. I'm sure one of the goals was to win on the LPGA Tour, but I have to say that I don't remember what the five goals are exactly because I found that as time goes by, I have new goals and new dreams.   
 Q.  If you had show Busan on your YouTube channel? What would you like to putt up?  
JIN YOUNG KO: As you know a lot of foreign players are here in Busan, so I think I would like to do one episode on when we go to a Korean restaurant and I get their reaction after they try Korean food.   
Also, the BMW Ladies Championship, there are some outstanding booths, and there are a lot of fans that can't make it here. So I want to show them around and show them the booths. I've actually been filming some scenes.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT