CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
August 29, 2019
Jin Young Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What happened on the three-footer at 9?  
JIN YOUNG KO: Well, I hit a good putt. First putt was good, but second putt I decelerated, so I made bogey. It was fine, but now it feels a little bit closed -- I want to keep close to 124, but done, only 13 holes. Still fine, though.   
 Q.  It looked like it was on your mind because your reaction to the putt when you missed it was something we don't normally see out of you. It looked like you were in disbelief. Is there a sense that maybe you're glad it's over and you can focus on now just playing golf and winning more tournaments?  
JIN YOUNG KO: Yeah, yeah, I can focus more on my shot and don't even think about, oh, bogey, bogey, no, had too many pars or birdies, but now I can more focus for tomorrow.   
 Q.  Your first time seeing the back nine. This course in general, is it one that you think fits your game? Do you like the golf course?  
JIN YOUNG KO: Yeah, yeah. I like this course. The fairways are narrow, greens are firm and fast, too, but I didn't practice nine, too.   
 Q.  I asked Dave after you guys finished 4, did you know that you had equaled Tiger Woods's --  
JIN YOUNG KO: Yeah, I knew already.   
 Q.  Was that a big deal to pass -- do something he hadn't done?  
JIN YOUNG KO: Yeah, it was, but I tried -- well, I tried and made a par on the fourth hole.   
 Q.  That was a really good par, that up-and-down --  
JIN YOUNG KO: Yeah, it was. I had a great up-and-down on the front nine, and it was fun. Yeah, it was fun. Anyway, I tried. I did. I tried the best to go shot by shot. Since two weeks ago AIG Women's British Open --   
 Q.  Almost a whole month.  
JIN YOUNG KO: Yeah.   
 Q.  Pretty cool.  
JIN YOUNG KO: Yeah.   
 Q.  When the putt, the par putt went by the hole on 9, you just looked like you couldn't believe it. What was going through your head?  
JIN YOUNG KO: Well, it's done. Now it's done. Now it's done, and my mind is more freedom. Yeah, I'm fine.   
 Q.  So you walked to 10 thinking, now I start a new streak?  
JIN YOUNG KO: Yes. Yeah, I did.   
 Q.  This is the second straight week that you've never played the golf course before.  
JIN YOUNG KO: Yeah.   
 Q.  And you just saw the back nine today?  
JIN YOUNG KO: Yeah.   
 Q.  You did that last week, too?  
JIN YOUNG KO: Yeah.   
 Q.  You must trust David so much.  
JIN YOUNG KO: Yeah, and then I heard about many players told me fairways narrow on the back nine, especially dogleg left. I trust my shot always, try always straight, hit it straight, and then putting feels not bad. So I will trust by myself and then to God.   
 Q.  At what point did you know you had a consecutive bogey-free streak going? Was it at some point last week during the Canadian Open?  
JIN YOUNG KO: Yeah, last week on Saturday.   
 Q.  Just playing golf?  
JIN YOUNG KO: Yeah, I did, yeah.   
 Q.  Was it sort of weird, it was almost like a tournament inside the tournament? There were people following you just because they wanted to see you extend the streak.  
JIN YOUNG KO: Yeah.   
 Q.  What was that like?  
JIN YOUNG KO: Well, bogey-free is amazing round 18 holes, especially 18 holes, still fine. But I did 114 holes and then done. It's cool, especially I did new record, something like that. So I want to do again, 115 holes bogey-free round hopefully. But yeah, I'm free. I'm freedom, yeah. I can feel it.   
 Q.  And not very many people can say they did something that Tiger didn't do. That's pretty cool.  
JIN YOUNG KO: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT