THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 27, 2019
Jin Young Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 20th birdie of the week.  What's been the key to be so aggressive and make so many birdies this week?
JIN YOUNG KO: I think course is a little shorter, so need to be great wedges.  Under 100 meters I had many times try hit the ball like under 100 meters.
So I had great birdies and then I try opportunity to birdie.  And then last hole I hit the driver from tee and then I miss the fairway and then I lay up; again, miss the fairway.
But I had really great wedges so I get birdies.  So really thankful.
Q. On the front nine today you shot 3-under.  That's been your best performance on the front nine so far this week.  What did you learn on the front nine from the first two days that let you play so well today?
JIN YOUNG KO: Yeah, yesterday was a little bit nervous on the front nine.  I didn't know why.  But I think (indiscernible).  So today I try just focus on my game.  Like don't try hard, like over-shot, over-fade, something like that.
So I try just like focus on my game on the front nine.  So I got many birdies on the front nine.  On the back nine was little couple miss shot, but I had great up and down and I got more birdies.
I want to finish strong 16, 17, 18, but I got two birdies last three holes.  That's really good things to me.  I'm looking forward to Sunday.
Q. When you had the two bogeys on the back nine you responded with a birdie.  What did you tell yourself after the bogeys to pick yourself back up with a birdie?
JIN YOUNG KO: Yeah, it's okay.  Bogey is fine.  I'm not robot.  I'm human.  I can do.  Every player like same things, make bogey or double, so try keep strong to my mind and then focus on my muscle, something.
So I'm, yeah, really good round.
Q. And you've been near the top of the leaderboard heading into the final round multiple times in your career.  Won a major this year at ANA Inspiration.  What's the most important part of a good Sunday round at a major?
JIN YOUNG KO: Just I think other player same to do about nervous on the course, so really important thing is just enjoy with the caddie and pray like to God.  Keep smile.  That's it.
Q. Just your thoughts on today.  I'm sure you're surprised at no rain, no thunderstorms.  You played in good conditions for the most part.
JIN YOUNG KO: Yeah, it was lucky before the thunder and rains, I finished before thunder and rain.
So I had great round with Jennifer and Chella.  I play first time with Jennifer.  She's amazing.  And then I had great round and I try like finish strong No. 16, 17, 18.
Then sometimes I had couple miss shot in the back nine, but I think try think about.  Yeah, for sure I'm human.  I'm not robot.  So, yeah, just try thinking about my swing and then my putting and my muscle and try to keep smile on the course.
Q. Do you work with a mental coach?
JIN YOUNG KO: Yeah.
Q. Who?
JIN YOUNG KO: In Korea.
Q. Is that something your mental coach tells you to remind yourself that you're human?
JIN YOUNG KO: Yeah.
Q. Are you a perfectionist then, I guess?
JIN YOUNG KO: Yeah, a little bit.  A little bit for practice, not on the course.
Q. Okay.  How long have you worked with the sports psychologist?
JIN YOUNG KO: One year.
Q. Is it a man or a woman?
JIN YOUNG KO: Woman.
Q. What's the biggest way she's helped you?
JIN YOUNG KO: Happiness is really important to my life, so I'm always think -- I always try happiness.  Like personal life, on the course, or outside golf.
So, yeah, she's good.  Yeah.
Q. The Koreans are just dominating this leaderboard here.
JIN YOUNG KO: Yeah.
Q. Is there something you think in general about this golf course that suits Korean players?
JIN YOUNG KO: I think this course is little narrow, so good for Korean players.  I think Korean players more hit straight all the time and the green is like little narrow.
But some green is wider, so they are making about fade or little draw.  Everything can do.
So this course is will be great for Korean players.
Q. Does it remind you of courses at home in Korea?
JIN YOUNG KO: No, not really.  But a little bit.  In the Korea courses more like mountain course.
Q. Hillier?
JIN YOUNG KO: Yeah.  So they know how can play this course.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT