AIG WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
August 4, 2019
Jin Young Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You have played phenomenal golf all year, but especially the last two weeks.  You won the Evian Championship last week.  You were in the thick of the title hunt here.  You came up just short.  You must be happy with your performance?  
JIN YOUNG KO: Yeah, I had a great round with Lizette.  Lizette played really solidly today.  So I tried to follow her out there.  So I had six birdies, bogey-free, and that's good to me, especially today is really important round to me, of media, too.  I had a little pressure, but I like that pressure.   
So I'm happy.  I played well today.   
 Q.  You mentioned the pressure and you say you like the pressure.  Only six players male or female have won three majors in a single year.  Were you feeling any of that pressure today, or were you pushing it to one side?  
JIN YOUNG KO: I felt I can win again today and this week, because I know about winning feeling because I felt it last week.  My feeling was, yeah, I can do it.  Was really positive.  So little bit pressure to me.   
 Q.  Yesterday, I think you lipped-out four times; two of them were little horseshoes, 360 degrees.  Was today maybe the best golf you've played all week?  
JIN YOUNG KO: Yeah, I think so.  Yeah, today is best round of the week.   
 Q.  And what's been the key to your excellent golf, both in Evian, and this week?  
JIN YOUNG KO: Just I will not -- try get ANNIKA Award, that's why I played last week and this week.   
 Q.  You mentioned the Rolex ANNIKA Major Award, and congratulations, because you have won that for 2019 by virtue of ANA Inspiration, Evian Championship, your first two career major victories, a strong finish here.  What does it mean to you to win that award?  
JIN YOUNG KO: I don't know, I'm just looking forward next year at the majors.  Like nobody knows about -- I can't win three or four majors on the year for next year or two years later.  So nobody don't know, so I will try.   
Yeah, happy, just honoured and happy.   
 Q.  This is saying you are the best of the best.  
JIN YOUNG KO: Thank you.   
 Q.  What does Annika Sorenstam mean to you as a golfer?  Because obviously this trophy is in her name.  
JIN YOUNG KO: I will keep that trophy in my room (smiling).  She is just a legend.  When I grew up playing golf, I watched always Annika and Se Ri.  Amazing, yeah.   
 Q.  How would you evaluate, how would you judge your season so far?  You've been so consistent, three wins, and no one has won that many on the LPGA Tour.  How would you describe your season?  
JIN YOUNG KO: Yeah, I am doing well, but not 100 per cent.   
 Q.  Which area do you need to work hard on?  
JIN YOUNG KO: Just like really if I might have really important putt, one or two of the round would be better.  If made one putt of the day, over four rounds, that is four strokes, that would be good.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT