AIG WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
August 2, 2019
Jin Young Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  We've reached the halfway point of the AIG Women's British Open and you are at 6-under.  How happy are you with your position going into the weekend?  
JIN YOUNG KO: I think position is really good on the weekend.  I'm looking forward on the weekend, but I had a couple loose shots today.  Especially 18, when I hit the second shot from was really big gusting.  But I had bunker shot I missed, but maybe 15, 20 feet, I made the putt.  So really happy to me.  That putt was really big putt, huge putt to me on the weekend.  Looking forward to the weekend.   
 Q.  Sinking a par putt like that, if you had missed it, you feel a little frustrated with the end of the round and this leaves a nice feeling in your mind going into the weekend?  
JIN YOUNG KO: For sure.  I'm always, always try strong finish, No. 16, 17, 18.  So I had 1-under the last three holes, happy.   
 Q.  You had an early bogey but you came back well from that.  Overall, you must be very happy with your game.  
JIN YOUNG KO: Yeah, I had a bet with my caddie over the bogey, and he said, "If you have five birdies, I will give you one hundred dollars."  But I couldn't.  I couldn't.  So I have to give to him.   
 Q.  So Dave wins the bet?  
JIN YOUNG KO: Yeah.   
 Q.  He was saying that in both men's and women's British Open championships, he's never seen collectively such tough pin positions, most of them on slopes.  
JIN YOUNG KO: Front nine, pin was like just over the mound or if you hit a little bit left, it's going like 20 meters left go, away.  It was hard on the front nine.  On the back nine, too, it was hard.   
 Q.  You said you had a couple of loose shots.  Is there anything in particular you want to work on between now and tomorrow?  
JIN YOUNG KO: I think my brain is not wake up yet (laughing).  I had many loose shots on the front nine.  I'll have little nap and practice a little.   
 Q.  You come here fresh from Evian where you won your second major championship of the year.  Only two players in contention now for the Rolex Annika majora word, you and Jeongeun Lee6.  She has to win.  How much is that on your mind, and what do you think of the prospects of winning your third major championship in just one year?  
JIN YOUNG KO: Jeongeun Lee6 is a great player, but I am great player, too.  We will have great competition on the course, and especially this week, on the weekend, too.  So I will try.  More focus on my game, on my shot.  And then also third major win of the year is really great pressure to me.  Like I need motivation on the course, always, but that is a really great motivation to me.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT