ANA INSPIRATION
April 1, 2021
Jin Young Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Some nice clouds made it a little cooler.  Imagine that helped out on the course, yeah?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   Yes.
 Q. Solid round, 3-under to start the 2021 ANA Inspiration, including four birdies.  Any of the birdies in particular stand out?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   Well, yeah, No. 10.  I would say No. 10.  That putt was nearly 15 meters past the -- like it was little downhill putt but I made it, so I was happy.
 And I got birdie next two holes, so it was great birdies.
 Q. You birdied No. 11, which is the Aon Risk Reward Challenge hole this week, so nice job.
 JIN YOUNG KO:   Oh.  I didn't know that.
 Q. Nice job.  Did you get on to the green in two?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   No.  I hit driver from the tee, ball goes way left, so I laid up and I got 60 meters, so I had 58 wedges and then I got tap-in.
 Q. And how did the driver play today, the new driver?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   Yeah, it was pretty in.  Hit lots of fairways did I and I looking for the next three days.
 Q. Absolutely.  What is the key out here after you've seen the course, how some of the greens are playing, some of the bounces on the greens?  What's going to be the key the next three days?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   Greens are really firm so we have to check the bounces, how much, so I always talk with my caddie Dave Brooker, and he give me advice for how many release on the course from the second shot.  Yeah, I believe in him and I believe in myself, too.
 Q. I wanted to ask you about your caddie.  Just how good of a team are you guys?  You guys missed your first cut in quite a while a few weeks ago, but bounced back and are right near the top of the leaderboard here.  Just how good do you work together out there?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   Well, we been work together almost three years, over three years, and we had great results before this tournament, so I think -- and then he's like he -- he has three times win this tournament so he really knows this green and fairway as well.
 So I always ask to Dave, where is target, where is the break?  And then he always give me advice for the green as well.  So, yeah, it's good.
 Q. Last one I have for you:  It was your first time competing here since you won.  Did you have some good memories as you were walking around today?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   Of course.  I had great memories at here, and yeah, jumping into Poppy's Pond is really great memorable in my life.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT