LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY HERSHEY
April 16, 2019
Jin Young Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  This is your first week in competition as world No. 1; second week consecutive.  How does it feel?  Has it sunk in yet?  
JIN YOUNG KO: I still can't believe what I did two weeks ago, but many, many people have said 'congrats' and 'good job,' so it's starting to sink it.   
So I'm just thinking about the same goal, being the happiest golfer on the course.  So I will try to focus on my game, on my body, on my mind, not other people's expectations.   
So, yeah.  I'm happy still, and I'm in Hawaii.  I like this course and also this place.  I like acai bowls and poke.   
 Q.  Good.  Have your fans back home in Korea been very encouraging and sending you good messages afterwards?  
JIN YOUNG KO: Lots.  I can't reply to all the fans because a lot, so my DM's-- it was almost like an explosion.   
 Q.  Your DMs have exploded?  
JIN YOUNG KO: (Laughter.)  So I'm just, yeah, I'm happy.  And my parents are really happy.  I think my parents, they are still the same, but me, still believe, so they said just enjoy yourself and then see you in two weeks in Korea.  So, Okay, see you.   
 Q.  Do you think it'll be more crazy when you go to Korea because people will know when you land and they'll come out and support you?  
JIN YOUNG KO: Yeah, yeah, for sure.  And lots of media want to ask me questions, but I can't do it all.  It's a lot.   
So I'm just happy about I won, about ANA Inspiration, not ranking No. 1.  So I will just keep going, too.  Happy golfer, and then find about what is my little things about problem on my swing, find about my swing key or putting key with my coaches, and then just keep going.   
Yeah.   
 Q.  So just keep your focus?  
JIN YOUNG KO: Yeah, my goal.  I like pure golf.  I saw many players reach world ranking No. 1 many years ago, and because if going to No. 1 will be more easier media or fans, so I think they just lost sight of their goals.   
Then there is no time for playing golf or to practice golf.  I just don't want to that, so I'm just taking my time on the course or on the range or on the house, in the house.   
So just thinking what is your real goal about golf.  I'm doing meditation in the room every morning or every night, so I'm just try to mind myself, not other people.   
 Q.  Yeah.  So trying to manage expectations.  You have good perspective.  Just want to go perform to your best ability and not to other people's expectations.  
JIN YOUNG KO: It's important for players to perform first, and then personal or like outside life just player is, best one is on the course.  Yeah.   
 Q.  That's really good.  Have you heard from anybody that you were surprised to hear from?  
JIN YOUNG KO: Everybody.   
 Q.  That's cool.  
JIN YOUNG KO: Yeah, I can't find just one person.  (Laughter.)   
 Q.  So you know Marilynn Smith passed away, and she was really inspirational and she did a lot for the women's game in the States, which helped grow the game globally.  Were you able to meet her, and what are some of your memories about Marilynn?  
JIN YOUNG KO: Yeah, we met last year and this year, too.  She has a great smile.  Also I met her one month ago in Arizona.  I couldn't believe that she passed away so quickly, but pray for her.   
Yeah, all the players, the LPGA players, lots of inspiration from her so we can play this tour.  Really thanks to her.   
 Q.  What are your goals this week?  
JIN YOUNG KO: Make the cut.  (Laughter.)  Eat acai bowls every day.  (Laughter.)   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT