LPGA KEB HANABANK CHAMPIONSHIP
October 14, 2017
Jin Young Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Jin Young, very well played today; six birdies has given you a two-shot lead going into the final round.  What worked really well for you today, and what are your thoughts going into the final round?
JIN YOUNG KO: (Through translation.)  I think my iron shots today were really strong so I was able to make a lot of birdie chances for myself.
Although I'm in the lead, I am leading by two strokes, there are a lot great players out there in the field.  I think tomorrow I would have to really focus and concentrate.
At the same time, I haven't seen some of those players if a while so it will be a lot of fun to play with them.
THE MODERATOR: You famously came close to winning the women's British Open in 2015.  What would it mean to you to win this tournament?  It's one of the strongest fields of the year and a limited field, just 78 players; top quality.
JIN YOUNG KO: (Through translation.)  I would be extremely happy to win.  At the Women's British Open was my first time playing abroad and I think I exceeded my own expectations and I did quite well then.
And I was also a bit disappointed not to have had better results at that time, so I would be extremely happy to win.
THE MODERATOR: Questions.
Q. (Through translation.)  What was the biggest struggle in the third round?
JIN YOUNG KO: I can't really pinpoint a situation where I thought I was in big trouble.  Think I had a sense of urgency for each and every shot, and I did my best for every shot.
Q. As a co-leader in the Women's British Open you were in the champion's group on the final day.  Can you kind of relive the feeling at the time?  What do you think it'll feel like for you to be playing in the champion's group tomorrow?
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  I remember the Women's British Open from day one.  The night before the final round I actually finished around 7:00 to 8:00 p.m., so I remember being extremely tired and kind of exhausted at the thought of having another day to play.
Today I'm in a really good position going into the final round tomorrow, and I think that an opportunity is being presented to me.  At the same time, Sung Young and In Gee are fantastic players.  They also have major wins under their belt.  I have a lot to learn in them.  Hopefully tomorrow I'll have a good time with them.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT