GAINBRIDGE LPGA
February 27, 2021
Jin Young Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Jin Young, what a great third round here at Lake Nona.  When did the momentum start kicking in for you today?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   It's been No. 11 I got the birdie and I got the birdie No. 12 as well.  And 14, 15, 16 I had three birdie.  That's good.
 Q. Going in depth about the back nine, on that 11th hole how short was your putt?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   It was two meters behind hole so it was a little down club, and I thought straight to the hole so I made it.
 Q. Was there a nine holes that you preferred, the front nine or the back nine?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   I think front nine is more harder than back nine, so I needed to patient on the front nine and then I can (indiscernible).
 Q. Not many players today shot low.  How did you manage to shoot such a low score today?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   Because I had good motivation with the day before.  My caddie, and he wanted to bet me about dinner tonight, so I won him so he has to take-out food to my room.  So (indiscernible)...
 Q. Last question before turning it over to Beth Ann is you were in the same spot at CME.  How different do you feel or is it kind of just a different tournament, different feel?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   Not really because I felt -- I feeling just CME was just like two weeks ago, so I feeling really good in my swing and putting as well, so I have to (indiscernible).
 Q. How many birdies did you have to make to win the bet?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   He says 4-under or better.
 Q. I understand you met with Gareth last night to work on your putting a little bit.  What changed?  What helped?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   I didn't like connected to my arms and body to my -- for my putting stroke, so I fixed a little bit to little more kind of connect arms, bodies.
 Q. How important has it been to have him here this week for you?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   Well, we been work together since three years so he knows me really well.  I need him.  If he -- yeah, he doesn't need to quarantine think I might be more better chance for the win.
 Q. When was the last time you saw him before the week?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   2019, CME since a year.
 Q. What are your thoughts on this golf course?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   It's pretty and greens are a little bit tricky for the breaking.  Fairways are good and everything is good, so I'm looking forward for tomorrow.
 Q. What score do you think will you need tomorrow to take the lead?
 JIN YOUNG KO:   At least 5-under.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT