NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: AVALANCHE v RED WINGS
May 21, 2002
Darius Kasparaitis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Let's talk about it being not as physical of a series as the last two you played.  Have you found that to be a difference here?

DARIUS KASPARAITIS: Yeah, they're very skilled players, then to keep their heads up all the time.  They play smart, and I don't think they want to have a physical series.  They play to have good-skilled hockey and don't have to make it physical.

Q.  Is that a benefit to the Avalanche, playing a less physical series after the last two you've played?

DARIUS KASPARAITIS: I don't know if it's a benefit.  I think we still have to play our Avalanche hockey, but of course it's easy.  You know, last time they were hitting us a lot, grinding seriously.  This series is more about turnovers and about skill.  I think the team who is going to make less mistakes is going to win the series.

Q.  How much of a lift does it give you that you guys gave up two of your own goals, but still won the game last night?

DARIUS KASPARAITIS: Oh, it was a big win for our team.  You know, we were up by one goal, and it seemed like they got the lucky goal right after and it was kind of hard on our team.  But we keep believing in ourselves, that we're going to win this game.  And in overtime, you know, Chris made a great play and now we have home advantage on the ice.

Q.  You're one of the more physical players.  It seems like you're kind of getting under their skin.  Is that what you think your job is to do?

DARIUS KASPARAITIS: My job is to play hard, and if I have a chance to hit somebody, even one of the best players on the team, I have to make sure I finish my checks, and I finish my checks hard, you know.  But I cannot run around and make mistakes.  I have to play disciplined and wait for my opportunities.  Last night was one of the better games I've played, physical type because there were more battlings in the corners last night.
FastScripts by ASAPSports

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT