U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 29, 2009
Bhavik Patel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Please welcome Bhavik Patel who lost 3 and 2 to Byeong-Hun earlier today. It was an up and down match throughout. Tell us what it was like to have a match that went like that and your feelings right now.  
 BHAVIK PATEL: It was fun. I didn't hit the fairways like I needed to from the get-go. Towards the end kind of got a little loose, and that's what cost me.   
 THE MODERATOR: Talk about this week, what's it's done for your golf career.   
 BHAVIK PATEL: Oh, it's great. It's been an unbelievable week. I learned a lot from it. Hopefully we can keep the good play going throughout the college season, so...   
 THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
  
  Q. Jokingly you said you were tired, but the last four holes when you bogeyed, you bogeyed double. Does that wear on you?  
 BHAVIK PATEL: No, just bad decisions off the tee. Just, again, you have to hit fairways out here. Even if you have, you know, 50 yards further in, you know, you need to be in the fairway and hit the green and make par. I just wanted to get a little closer to the greens and have a shorter shot, and out here you can't do that.   
  
  Q. Just a follow up. We talked a little bit about it yesterday. You like to go for things. Do you think you were a little too aggressive today?  
 BHAVIK PATEL: Yeah, yeah, exactly. Even on 15 I should have hit an iron off the tee, but I decided to go with a 3-wood in. If I would have hit ten yards to the right it would have been perfect. Just carried it too far down the left side and into the rough.  
  
  Q. Was that the game plan today, to be aggressive as you could?   
 BHAVIK PATEL: Yeah. Yeah, I felt good with the 3-wood. But again, even if it's further back, you have to do an iron off the tee if that's what you need to do out here, and I didn't do it.   
  
  Q. From your perspective, Ben's play so far?  
 BHAVIK PATEL: Oh, God, he's solid. He played solid all day. Just a loose shot on 11, the par-3. That's pretty much the only big mistake he made all day. I have to give credit to him. He made pars. I don't know if he made a birdie or two, but he made a bunch of pars. That's what you need to do out here.   
  
  Q. You really stole a hole at 7, and thought maybe that would get you kind of on track and rolling along, but seemed like all day you guys - it was a good match, and yet it seemed like everybody was, both of you were scrambling.   
 BHAVIK PATEL: Yeah, we both missed a lot of fairways. It comes down, like you said, to scrambling and making pars. I didn't think I was gonna get a win on 7. Then again, you never know.   
 And the 8, I just hit it again five yards too far right. The fairways are so fast, you know, it goes in the trap, so...   
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much.  
 BHAVIK PATEL: Thank you.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT