U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 28, 2009
Bhavik Patel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome our third semifinalist in the 2009 U.S. Amateur, Bhavik Patel from Bakersfield, California, who was a winner, one up, over Phillip Mollica of Anderson, South Carolina.   
 I guess watching it on TV, I guess you really got yourself back into things with your tee shot on the 14th hole, right?   
 BHAVIK PATEL: Yeah.  
 THE MODERATOR: That was real close to going in. Tell us how you did that and then what that did your momentum getting back into the match.  
 BHAVIK PATEL: Yeah, I had 7-iron, a little bit off. I hit it off the toe and I thought it was way short. Luckily ended up just bouncing just short and running up to the hole.  
 THE MODERATOR: What did that mean to you at that point? You squared it, but you had been down most of the match and you got it back to square.  
 BHAVIK PATEL: Yeah, that was huge. That's where everything changed. From there on I won 15-2. It was huge. That's what I needed to do, so...   
 THE MODERATOR: You probably didn't know, but did you at all see anything in the difference in Phillip's demeanor when that happened?   
 BHAVIK PATEL: Not really. He put the pressure on me all day long. Never really seen any changes in his demeanor at all. He did a good job of that, so...  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions.  
  
  Q. You hit that one off the toe?   
 BHAVIK PATEL: Yeah.   
  
  Q. And then how close did it actually get?  
 BHAVIK PATEL: Half an inch. It was right on the lip, yeah.  
  
  Q. Looking at the earlier round it looks like you struggled a little bit.   
 BHAVIK PATEL: Yeah.  
  
  Q. Was it the kind of thing that shook you back up a little bit?  
 BHAVIK PATEL: Yeah, it was huge. Perfect 7-iron again. I guess if I would have it good it might have been long. So, yeah, lucky that I hit it short and killed the speed on it and roll it right to the hole.   
  
  Q. On the par-3, 6, when Mollica hit his tee shot onto the next tee box, the par-3, I was just wondering, were you aiming for the stick or were you just trying to put it on the green?  
 BHAVIK PATEL: No. Well, see the wind has been switching on us all week long. It's so swirly. First it was going right to left, so I play that draw and I was gonna aim it at the flag and let it draw in the middle of the green.  
 Right before I hit it was going right. So I aimed middle of the green, and the wind picked up a gain and just blew it way to the right right in the bunker. That was huge right there for me.   
 I should have won that hole since was way right. Again the wind, just -- it messed with me, you know, on ten shots today, so...  
  
  Q. How does it feel to get this far?   
 BHAVIK PATEL: Yeah, it really still hasn't sunk in. I'm more nervous than anything. Really just hasn't hit me yet. Yeah, coming down the stretch, 17 I was getting nervous. Yeah, still hasn't hit me yet. I'm sure it will soon.  
  
  Q. With that, maybe a little bit of a slow start today with the nerves?  
 BHAVIK PATEL: Um, not really. On 1 I think I hit the fairway once, you know, and that's the key. If you don't hit fairways out here you have no chance. So fairways and greens will usually win matches.   
  
  Q. Has this been a learning experience, the whole match play? How much match play do you have?  
 BHAVIK PATEL: Two U.S. Juniors I've won; made the round of 32 in 2007, 2008. But you just feed off the other player. If he's playing aggressive at the getgo, you have to try and make birdies; if he's just making pars, you do the same thing, so...   
 THE MODERATOR: Did you see this run of good play coming in your preparation for the Amateur.  
 BHAVIK PATEL: Um, yeah, in a way. My goal was to just to make match play, and obviously anything can happen from there. Just I've been playing pretty solid, so just keep going.   
  
  Q. What have you played in or done in the past summer?   
 BHAVIK PATEL: Um, just played in the U.S. Publics qualifier. Was an alternate in that and missed it by a shot. Just played a couple local events, and the FCGA Championship at Wiltshire Country Club. I missed the cut there, so I haven't played too many big events. A few local events back in town, so...   
  
  Q. Not to be rude, but having not played in many big events this summer, to have gotten to the semifinals of the U.S. Amateur is pretty cool.   
 BHAVIK PATEL: Yeah, it's an awesome feeling. They cheer us here all week. It still hasn't sunk in. Still feels like I'm out there playing a round of golf.   
 THE MODERATOR: Congratulations.   
 BHAVIK PATEL: Thanks.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT