KEMPER INSURANCE OPEN
May 25, 2001
Bradley Hughes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BRADLEY HUGHES:  I guess the best thing is I got finished.  I didn't think we were going to play at all.  It worked out good because I was pretty hot the first ten holes, and the rain delay could have stalled that, but I was fortunate to go out and play well again, and get some more birdies.  I played pretty nicely most of the year, except I haven't been holing putts, and today I holed the ones that were meant to make.  Nothing outrageous, no 50-footers across greens, just good shots inside 12 feet, and made most of them.  
 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
 
BRADLEY HUGHES:  I think I realized that after he was done there.  I think I heard someone say that the other day.  
 

Q.  I just asked this question of Lee Porter, is there more pressure on a guy who hasn't won on the TOUR or is there more pressure on a guy like Phil, who has had a lot of chances this year and hasn't won as many as he's wanted to?
 
BRADLEY HUGHES:  Probably I'm the newer guy.  He's done it all before, so he knows what to do.  So I guess it makes his job a little easier, ours a little harder.  But I don't think it matters, if you're playing well.  The worst thing you can do about it is if you're playing well, and things have gone well, there's no reason why you can't win.  You have to have -- there's a lot of luck.  I think Sergio said it last week.  He's had a few breaks, and he had a good round, and the next minute he won.  You can't go out and win, a lot of things have to happen.  Hopefully they'll fall my way this week. 
 

Q.  Feel a bit surreal after the rain delay, no one around?
 
BRADLEY HUGHES:  I had a few people.  There were a few out there that had a couple of too many beers after the rain delay.  I played with Frank Lickliter and Greg Chalmers today.  So it was pretty good.  We just kept following one another.  The hardest bit for me is I can't take my sunglasses off.  It was getting darker.  I took them off and the ground looks so wavy, looks like everything had extra hills.  I had to keep them on, and I couldn't see the ball hardly the last couple of holes.  They're normal.  It's pretty dark out there.  I've worn glasses playing for seven or eight years, sunglasses, so I'm not used to having them off anymore.  If I start off without them I'm okay. 
 

Q.  How can you read greens?
 
BRADLEY HUGHES:  It might be good, maybe I was seeing breaks differently in the dark or something. 
 

Q.  When you see Phil two back, is he the guy you think about or being two back you could care less?
 
BRADLEY HUGHES:  Not really, you can't -- it's obvious to say, you can't worry about anyone else, and you can't, or you fall into a trap if you worry about what everyone else is doing.  All you can do is play your own game.  He's had some good opportunities to win this year and hasn't, so obviously there might be something in the back of his mind, as well, trying to get another win same as me, myself and Lee trying to get our first win.  You never know, hopefully luck and history is on my side. 
 
BRADLEY HUGHES:  I hit off on the 10th hole, I eagled 13.  I had a three wood and ten feet.  14, I hit a sand iron to about four feet 16 I hit a wedge into about 6 feet.   On the second I hit a sand iron into about 6, 7 feet.  4th hole, 7-iron to about 10, 11 feet.  Next hole I hit a sand iron into about five, six feet. And the last hole I holed probably a 10-footer there. 
 
BRADLEY HUGHES:  I hit an 8-iron off the tee.  
 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
 
BRADLEY HUGHES:  Not really.  I've been playing well most of the year.  I've been pretty happy with -- I think I spoke to you the other day, my stats look very good compared to the last years; everything has improved.  It was a matter of holing the putts.  I've had a lot of opportunities to hole birdie putts and I haven't.  I've been shooting 1-unders and even and rounds like that.  It didn't surprise me to have a good round.  I just had to make a couple early, and I did.  It gave me confidence every time I hit it inside that ten foot range.   I missed a short one early, I think, on the second hole, the 11th, about a 4-footer for birdie.  So that didn't help.  But after that I got on a good roll. 
 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
 
BRADLEY HUGHES:  On the 11th.  Second hole today. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT