MICHELOB CHAMPIONSHIP AT KINGSMILL
October 6, 2000
Bradley Hughes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BRADLEY HUGHES: I played very solid yesterday. I had one mishap yesterday which hurt me
on a par 5 where I double bogeyed, but I knew I was playing well and I have been putting
quite well this week. For some reason I have really seen the lines well so i haven't had
to attack all the holes. I have hit it pretty much to the safe side of the holes and if I
have had a wedge in my hand, then I'd attack the pin. I have holed a lot. Probably holed
6, 7, 8 putts from 20 feet or so, 15, 20, 25 feet; which I haven't been holing of late. So
that has made things a little easier. I haven't driven it long, but I have kept it out of
the rough, hit a lot of fairly decent amount of fairways and I think I have hit a lot of
greens. I might have missed four yesterday and only two today. So haven't had to struggle
a lot for pars or anything which has made it a little bit easier.

Q. Sure.

BRADLEY HUGHES: First hole I hit a sand iron into about seven feet. Then the 3rd hole I
was just short and chipped it up to less than a foot, so had a tap-in there. The 6th hole
I hit a good 9-iron out of the fairway trap to about five feet, made that. Then the 7 I
drove it in the rough and laid up; hit a sand iron from like 100 yards; that was a
20-footer, holed that one. Next hole hit 7-iron about 25 feet below the hole, made that
one. 9 I pushed it in the bunker into a horrible spot really and had to get up-and-down
for 5 from the other side out of the rough. 10, was 8-iron to about 18 feet. The 12th hole
I hit a wedge fairly close there, probably four, five feet. 15 I laid up and hit a sand
iron into like 20 feet, holed that one. 17, I hit 8-iron pin-high probably 25 to 30 feet,
made that. So holed a few good ones and then some of the others I had chances also, but
can't complain.

Q. I believe it was two years ago that you tied for fourth here, two or three?

BRADLEY HUGHES: I think it was two years ago.

Q. Obviously you have got some good feelings about this layout?

BRADLEY HUGHES: Yeah, I think I like the course in that you have to obviously strike it
well and there is a lot of valleys and fairways wind a little bit so you have to keep the
ball in play. The rough is just penal enough where if you want to be in play, if you miss
the fairways, you can get some flying lies, which I are hard to control. Then the rough
around the greens are pretty fluffy so it is easy to duff them or hit them too farr out of
the green-side stuff Normally when I am on my game hitting greens is one of the -- the
strong points in my game. I think that is why the course sets up well for me. I have just
putted better this week. That is why I am 11-under.

Q. What is your career low round on Tour?

BRADLEY HUGHES: That might be it, I think. I think I had a couple of 64s somewhere.
That might have been it today.

Q. Was there any sign of this breaking out today, 63, did something click?

BRADLEY HUGHES: Well, I had a really good start to the year; then I struggled. Once I
got to Florida on the grainy greens - I never grew up on those things - so that has taken
me a while to get used to all of them. Now I am seeing the breaks a little bit better on
those. And my chipping I have worked really hard on that and it has improved so now I am a
little bit more confident, if I miss a green or I can attack a flag, I know I have got a
good chance of getting it up-and-down. That was one of my weakest parts of my game, my
chipping, I couldn't do anything with it. So that has turned that around. Then last week I
switched balls. I have been playing a wound ball for a long time and I told everyone my
coach and my family and everything that I was playing well and I was shooting 76s and they
thought I was lying to them. I was just standing there with hitting good shots, I just
couldn't get the ball to go the distance that I wanted it to go. I think on the West Coast
when it was colder I sort of allowed for that because it was colder and I took an extra
club and what have you. But when the weather got better I knew how far I should be hitting
a shot. I couldn't get it to go. My confidence got down because I didn't know whether to
take an extra club and then I'd ease it and mess it up. So switched to a two piece ball
last week and the results were pretty much immediate. I was hitting my irons probably --
not my driver much longer, but my irons, I am hitting 10, 15 yards longer with each club
for no apparent reason except a different two piece ball. The other one I just spun too
much. I think it just went up in the air in the wind, I was having a lot of trouble.

Q. What are the names of the balls?

BRADLEY HUGHES: I went from a Titleist to a Nike. I think Titleist have a similar ball
meant to be coming out next week, but I just felt for my best interests the way I was
playing I had to get something going quickly and I just couldn't wait a couple more weeks.
I had to get something done quickly and that is why I changed last week.

Q. Did you try a bunch of different balls, Nike, Callaway?

BRADLEY HUGHES: No, I not really. I just picked that one up. Good enough for Tiger,
good enough for me. It went well. It was more than I expected. I changed clubs and I have
changed my swing. I have done a lot of messing around with all different things, searching
for a reason why I couldn't get the ball to go. I mean, when I first came out on Tour I
was one of the longest hitters and this year I was like 111th going into last week in
distance. Then that made me hit driver off every hole because I wasn't getting the
distance on the holes, made me press on each hole and my accuracy got worse and everything
snow-balled so I had to make a change. Hopefully I have done the right thing.

Q. Were you actually getting shorter or were you just some kinds of being--

BRADLEY HUGHES: I think I was getting shorter and everyone else was getting longer. It
was just a combination of both. I am not so worried about off the tee because normally I
can hit it straight, but it has made a big difference with my irons. Like I am hitting my
irons at least 10, 15 yards further. So I don't have to, you know, feel -- I don't have to
go in with a drive 5-iron or 4-iron on holes, hitting similar drive, but I have get a
6-iron or 7-iron in my hand. It's obviously easier to hit a shorter iron closer. I have
had a lot more opportunities.

Q. For example you hit 7-iron with the Titleist how far and how --

BRADLEY HUGHES: It should have gone 160 to 165, but quite often I'd end up plugging in
a bunker that was only like 150 carry, it was just strange, in the wind got up --

Q. Fighting the consistency to be as good?

BRADLEY HUGHES: Yeah, I am. I have known that now I know if I have the yardage I can
just go ahead and hit it and know that it is going to get there. Whereas before I could
hit one that would get there and then I could hit one that wouldn't. So I don't think it
was the brand. It was just the wound ball. I used to use a two piece when I was a an
amateur growing up and then when I turned pro I changed and I didn't really know the
difference. I have just sort have been searching and searching and finally I just pinned
it down to that. I have changed clubs and my swing, and my hairstyle, done everything,
nothing was working. So I just thought I'd try something different and it's really helped.

Q. We were watching the leaderboard yesterday afternoon waiting to see if some 5s would
come in in the afternoon. You get to the 3rd hole and all of a sudden you make double
there. We are like how the heck --

BRADLEY HUGHES: I just hit a poor drive there. We had a little wait on that tee and
sort of knew I should have been 6-under after that hole and I was thinking about the
birdie I was going to have, and I got ahead of myself.

Q. Did you hit it out of bounds?

BRADLEY HUGHES: Pulled it left into the hazard and tried to get it out and didn't. So I
wasted a couple there. But I came back pretty good after that really.

Q. Was it as courageous or risky to make the ball switch at this point or were you just
at the point where I have got to try?

BRADLEY HUGHES: Well, I think I had to try something because the other way I was going
nuts. I was -- I felt like I was hitting it well and I was doing everything technically
and as well as I could, but mentally I was just burnt out because I was hitting good shots
and not getting the result that I knew I should have been getting for the shot that I was
hitting. So it was just getting to my head after a while. Could I start out the rounds
fairly well and fight it and fight it. Then at the end of the last few holes when the
water is there and the pins are tucked that just made things much more difficult and I'd
drop shots at the end and played fairly well and have even or 1-over and when I have
played like a 4-under round or better. So it just made it harder.

Q. Was the act -- you said it was kind of out of destination, that you are on the
bubble for the 125 --

BRADLEY HUGHES: Well, I had to get something going because I just had no confidence
with the wound ball. I knew I wasn't going to get it done with that so I thought I had
today try something because if I didn't and you know, get right down to the wire there and
I'd have to do something really special in the last couple of weeks. I knew I was playing
well so just had to try something I didn't think it was that big a deal and just get some
confidence again. 

Q. Did it come right back, your confidence?

BRADLEY HUGHES: Straight-a-way. As soon as I started hitting -- I had, say, 130 as to
how far I used to hit a wedge and now I have been like, you hit a wedge 115, 120, I just
stood there, 130, right, you know, right next to the hole. When you know you should be
hitting a wedge 125 and you are only hitting -- it is 15, you are having a 40-foot putt,
it is not very good with a wedge really.

Q. Did you just -- do you spin the ball more ferociously than other players; do you
think?

BRADLEY HUGHES: I don't think so. I wouldn't say I do. I don't know. I have tried to
have my swing out so wouldn't spin it as much. That was one of the things I worked on, but
I don't think so.

Q. Contractually I guess a lot of guys maybe couldn't do that, right?

BRADLEY HUGHES: Couldn't --

Q. Switch balls right in the middle of a season?

BRADLEY HUGHES: Wasn't meant to do it either, but I knew if I didn't do it I might not
have a contract anyway next year because I wasn't going to keep my card. So I had no
choice really. It was nothing against them. It was just something I needed to do.

Q. You have played in the first Presidents Cup. You replaced Norman. What was that
like?

BRADLEY HUGHES: That was awesome. I remember that for a long time and I think I was in
Japan watching it. I was watching the week before when they announced the team, I think,
something like that, the Canadian Open might have been, the week before, I said, oh, they
started talking about The Presidents Cup so that would have been really good. I was having
that week off in Japan and I went to bed and the phone rang like four hours later I think
I was Mike who rang me and said I should get on a plane, he might need me. That was pretty
cool. I flew on a plane; next thing I had dinner with the president and his wife. It was a
pretty amazing thinking I was going to be in Japan and ended up there not even knowing if
I was going to play. So then once I got there and found I was going to play, that made it
even better. Then I played with Nick Price the first game so everything -- against Davis
Love and Fred Couples so I couldn't have wished for more. It was a good event. I just wish
I had played better the last couple of years and get in it again. 

Q. Do you think, you know, there is much talk that it doesn't have as much prestige as
the Ryder Cup. Do you think that is because the Americans don't give a damn about it?

BRADLEY HUGHES: Well, I don't think anyone cared about the Ryder Cup 15 years ago
either until Europe started winning it or all the time. So I don't know. The International
Team won the last one, I know Americans don't like to lose at anything, so I am sure if
they happen to -- if the International Team happened to knock this one off again then I am
sure it will keep growing. The idea of it all is really good with, with the Americans
against the rest of the world. I mean, they got the Ryder Cup which we can't play in, so I
guess they need something. It is difficult for you guys having to play one each year, I
think, but maybe some day they will have something where it is just a bi-annual thing,
everybody competes against each other, I don't know, it will be hard to organize, but in
an ideal world that will be the best thing.

Q. We also got spanked in Australia. Do you think that is going to contribute to a
different atmosphere around this year's matches? 

BRADLEY HUGHES: I think so, yeah. I always thought we would probably win Royal
Melbourne anyway; just needed a lot of local knowledge around there. The course in
Virginia is fairly even matched. I think it doesn't really favor anyone. It is just
whoever plays best. It is a good event and hopefully it goes down to the wire because a
bit more exciting than blow out.

Q. We have just got, here in the States, for the last half of September just been
bombarded with stories about the Olympics from Australia everyday. Do you have any
connection to that in the sense did you go back to watch any of it? I saw a lot of fairly
famous athletes --

BRADLEY HUGHES: I am not famous enough to go back.

Q. Did you enjoy watching it on TV; would you have liked to--

BRADLEY HUGHES: I would have liked to have been there but I had to get my card first.
It was hard in one way in that I read the paper on the computer from home, I knew
everything that had happened so -- from the time delay, you guys should get up at 4 AM
like we have to watch everything, all the Olympics, and the U.S. Open golf and tennis, all
that because of the time change. We don't tape delay it. We have got to suffer and set the
alarm to get up.

Q. I was talking to somebody and they said it is traditional in Australia to get up
like 4 AM in Australia for the final round of the Masters --

BRADLEY HUGHES: Yeah.

Q. Was golf your big game as a kid or did you play --

BRADLEY HUGHES: I played Aussie Rules for, oh, probably seven, eight years. I got
signed to play professionally for Melbourne who they played off in the final this year. I
just kept getting beat up in the end. I was probably one of the better players on our team
so once I got to the older age groups, they started taking it personal and tried to bury
me every week. So I'd just get injured and then improve just in time to get beat up for
the following week. I thought I'd better stick to golf after that. Everyone just got
bigger and stronger than I was.

Q. How old were you when you gave it up?

BRADLEY HUGHES: Probably 16 or 17 when I finished playing.

Q. What was your most serious injury?

BRADLEY HUGHES: Nothing too bad. Just groin injury or I never broke anything, I don't
think. That was about it. Just minor things, but just anything -- enough for you to take a
while to get over them. I was unlucky. I didn't have anything too bad because it could
have given me some rest.

Q. Did you get a lot of grief for giving up Aussie Rules Football to play golf?

BRADLEY HUGHES: A little bit because golf was a sissy's game at that point, but now I
guess I have got the last laugh, I get to travel everywhere and if it was football as my
career it would be over by now. I played a little bit with Darren Bennett who he came over
here. I think he kicks for the Chargers. Me and him were on the same team growing up.

Q. How close did you come to making the majors? You said you were on a youth team --

BRADLEY HUGHES: Well, I was signed to play. I just never did. I decided I was either
going to go that way or towards golf and I qualified for a big tournament at home; then I
won the Doug Sanders where I went over to Scotland to play. I thought that was a little
bit better. It was more fun travelling around seeing everything, so at that point I didn't
actually go and train with them. I just said I was going to stick at golf.

Q. I take it you were an offensive player, high scorer?

BRADLEY HUGHES: Yeah, I was in the middle, so I did both ways, offense and defense, so
I used to run a bit more in those days than I do now. Probably ran about 20 miles in the
game. Lucky to run about 20 meters.

Q. What does a top Australian football player make?

BRADLEY HUGHES: I am out of touch with it now, but when I was growing up they didn't
make a hell of a lot at all. Everyone else -- they all had to have other jobs during the
week and then train at night and play on the weekend. It was a big gap compared to what
happens over here, but I think now maybe the leaders probably get, I don't know, maybe a
million Australia dollars or three-quarters of a million which is a pretty good salary for
how it used to be.

Q. You made the right financial choice?

BRADLEY HUGHES: I hope so.

Q. Just to go back to the ball thing for just a minute. That would be a tremendous
adjustment for some players. Especially you are talking about playing this ball for ten
years, right, then switching. Did the fact that you grew up playing two piece make it a
little bit easier? It wasn't like a leap in the dark for you?

BRADLEY HUGHES: It made it a bit easier because I knew how far I did used to hit the
clubs, but it was -- I used to use a two piece ball; never even entered my mind until I
sat down because I just totally was dumbfounded by the end, I didn't know what was wrong.
I knew I was playing well and hitting shots and just wasn't happening. Then I just sat
down one day and wrote a list of everything I could think of, why things were occurring
and why they weren't, and then that one just popped into my head. I knew that I used to
use it, Tour edition which was a two piece ball that everyone sort of laughed at at that
point because they were one of the first ones to do it. But I knew that I used to hit it
further than, much further than I did now and that was with a wooden driver in those days.
That was one of the other reasons that I just thought, well, I have to do it now, try it.

Q. How did that process -- did you approach the Nike rep?

BRADLEY HUGHES: I just went up and said: Have you got a couple of because I can try and
I just used them a couple of them in the Pro-Am in Texas; then I put one into play on the
second day because I struggled the first day.

Q. Second day of the San Antonio?

BRADLEY HUGHES: Yeah, I missed the cut anyway. I had 78 the first day. Then used it
last week.

Q. Did that 78 kind of -- was that the final straw in making the decision?

BRADLEY HUGHES: Yeah. (laughs) That was it for me there. Like I say, it was a windy
day, I just couldn't control it. Guys I was playing with were hitting 5-irons and I am
trying to cut a little 3-iron, it was just a totally different course.

Q. Probably a lot of weekend players out there, you know, would think, man, you really
can't hit it longer with a two piece ball. I don't think there is -- do you find that you
give up anything? Weekend golfers are probably afraid of giving up that wound ball because
it probably won't stop as fast...

BRADLEY HUGHES: I haven't noticed anything with the way it stops. It doesn't feel much
different. I am putting better so it might feel better to putt with, I don't know. Maybe
that is me. But obviously it might not be good for another people, I mean, I play with
Davis Love and obviously David Duval they use the wound ball and they rip it, so there
might be something in there swing, they don't spin the ball as much so that ball is good
for them. It was just a personal thing for me. It just didn't work. I knew I was getting
shorter or everyone else was getting longer, so I had to see which way it was.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT