STANFORD UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 23, 2019
Colby Parkinson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Cal - 24, Stanford - 20   
 Q.  How are the guys taking it right now?  
COLBY PARKINSON: Probably as good as you would imagine. I mean after nine years, to lose the axe it's a tough pill to swallow. Definitely going to let this one hurt for a while and kind of feel (indiscernible) going into next week.   
 Q.  Stanford hasn't had this kind of season in more than a decade. (Indiscernible) a full streak and all (indiscernible). How do you guys deal with it and come back and play a game next week that a lot of people would say you don't have any reason to play?  
COLBY PARKINSON: I mean, it's a testament to our character. Coach Shaw after the game said that this next week is all going to be about how strong our character is. If we just want to tap out and get ready in the offseason, try to come back next year strong, it's going to show poor character.   
But that's not what we have here. We have a group of guys that are all strong and willing to fight. And that's what we're going to do next week.   
 Q.  You didn't play directly against him but what would you say about Chase Garbers' play?  
COLBY PARKINSON: He played great. I think we were right there, a lot of times and he was able to escape out. He's a good player and he helped them out for sure.   
 Q.  Offensively overall, what went right and what could have gone better?  
COLBY PARKINSON: I think a lot of the tale of the tape this season has been opportunities, opportunities missed, opportunities made. I think we had a lot of chances this game that we didn't take advantage of.   
I mean, obviously we're going to pass the ball well. We're going to get some stuff going, but I think overall I think we just missed a couple of opportunities that really would have changed the game.   
 Q.  Can you take us through the second down play for the go-ahead field goal, the one to you in the end zone?  
COLBY PARKINSON: Right. It was close. I wish I would have been able to get up a little bit. It was just an awkward angle for me to turn around and get two hands on it. But if I could take it back I would try my best to try to open up a little more, just a tough one.   
 Q.  He put his hands up with his back to the ball. Is that pass interference? It was similar to what 17 got called for?  
COLBY PARKINSON: They're not going to call it on me call -- as a big tight end they don't call pass interference against me.   
 Q.  The defender?  
COLBY PARKINSON: Yeah. They'll rarely give me a call mainly because, I don't know --   
 Q.  Okay.  
COLBY PARKINSON: Exactly.   
 Q.  The last two games the run game has struggled a little bit. As your position as a tight end (indiscernible)?  
COLBY PARKINSON: I think we were just -- kind of found our rhythm in the pass game go with what's working. It's a good testament to our coaching staff and our receivers going with whatever's working for that game, not trying to be too honed in on trying to make the run game work if it's not working.   
And that definitely wasn't the reason why we lost today. It wasn't the fact that we didn't run the ball enough. But I think the pass game was just working so well that we weren't too worried about trying to get the ball on the ground that much.   
 Q.  Some of the guys behind you stepped up (indiscernible) pass game change a little bit with Connor going out?  
COLBY PARKINSON: Elijah had to step up. You saw Donald Stewart step up in the first touchdown. It was pretty awesome to see him get that. Our receiving corps is really strong. I think Coach Kennedy has done a great job bringing them together, making sure they're all ready to play. And they did a good job stepping up today.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT