STANFORD UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 10, 2018
Colby Parkinson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Stanford - 48, Oregon State - 17   
COLBY PARKINSON: The guys up front did a great job protecting.  We kept getting the looks that we wanted.   
 Q.  Take me through -- I believe the third touchdown you had, the super long one, take me through that play.  And the execution?  
COLBY PARKINSON: We went in with four tight ends, and they matched that with bringing in their big personnel.  And we have an explore play where we get out and we'll throw the ball because they have other big people in there.  So I had an outside linebacker on me.  I was running that fade ball.  So it was the look we wanted and just went out there and completed it.   
 Q.  How critical is it to put up so many points, get off to a great start, and keep the pedal to the metal throughout the whole series?  
COLBY PARKINSON: This game was for the seniors.  It was awesome we were able to go out and play the whole game.  Something we haven't done this whole season.  It was great to see us put together a full game go out and win for the seniors.   
 Q.  Four touchdown catches the first half.  Is this tight end heaven for you?  
COLBY PARKINSON: I would think so.  I can't think of any place I'd rather be.   
 Q.  You knew JJ wasn't going to play.  Did you feel this would be (indiscernible) red zone targets (indiscernible)?  
COLBY PARKINSON: We joked about it before the Rice game last year, JJ didn't play in that game.  I said I'll get a touchdown for you.  And a touchdown for you.  And before this game I said the same thing.  After the second one I went up to him and joked about it.  I knew I would have a few more targets and the ball just happened to come my way and I was able to make a play.   
 Q.  What did you think of K.J.'s play in this game?  
COLBY PARKINSON: K.J. is awesome.  He's going to put the ball where it needs to be, going to give you a shot to go up and get it.  Like I said earlier, this is stuff we've been working on for a year and a half now.  It's not something that just happened tonight.  It's not something that is spur of the moment.  This is what we do every day in practice.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
COLBY PARKINSON: Yeah, I mean that was awesome.  To really put together a complete game, one where we're not just throwing the ball and being successful, but where we are throwing and running the ball, doing everything we can to help the team.   
 Q.  Bryce Love had an outstanding night tonight, best of the season at this point.  How special was it to see him doing (inaudible)?  
COLBY PARKINSON: It was so awesome.  This season has been tough in the run game.  But to be able to go out there tonight and really throw the ball, amazing, run the ball, amazing.  It was really cool to see.  Pretty special.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
COLBY PARKINSON: I think it was just focusing on us really.  Focusing on us getting excited, getting started fast.  That's been my thing.  We'll play great in the second half.  But our first half is too slow to come back from.  But I think it was a great change of pace to really get us going early on.   
 Q.  (Question about K.J.)?  
COLBY PARKINSON: It's all about us.  It's not about the other team.  It's not about the scheme.  It's about us going out there winning our one-on-one battles every play.  And K.J. is an awesome leader.  Great to see him grow into that role.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT