THE 147TH OPEN
July 21, 2018
Sam Locke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
SAM LOCKE: Yeah, I thought I needed it though, I thought I played a bit better today off the tee, more in control of the ball.  Just made a few more silly errors, but we'll learn from it, and we won't do it again.   
 Q.  The 1st tee, you obviously mis-hit your tee shot.  
SAM LOCKE: Yeah, had a nice shot in there, which was good.   
 Q.  What was that?  
SAM LOCKE: I hit 7 iron in there today.  So, yeah, it was a great way to start, obviously, and hit it in close at 2 as well, but the putt just slipped by.  And then to birdie 3 and 4 was nice obviously.  I was obviously hoping for a bit more at 6.  It was a good 6 in the end, to be fair.   
 Q.  How did it start?  
SAM LOCKE: I hit it out of bounds off the tee.  Again, that's what I was meaning by a few silly mistakes, but as I say, we learn from it, and we kick on.   
 Q.  What was your day like yesterday (inaudible).  
SAM LOCKE: Yeah, it was a long day.  It was looking -- as soon as I finished, I thought I might miss by one, but, yeah, I was just watching all day.  It was looking kind of likely, but then, you know, you never know what's going to happen, especially with the finish that we have here at Carnoustie.  I tried to just chill out.  What will be will be.  Thankfully, I got in.   
 Q.  When it was confirmed, what were the scenes?  Describe it.  
SAM LOCKE: I was pretty happy, obviously.  It was nice to know that not only would I be playing, but to guarantee the silver medal too, that was nice.   
 Q.  Were you alone?  
SAM LOCKE: No, I was on the sofa watching TV.  My mom and dad were there as well.  So it was nice.   
 Q.  Last time the silver medal was won here, it was by Rory McIlroy?  
SAM LOCKE: Yes.  It's obviously a good feeling to know that I'm in the company of -- he's obviously a phenomenal player and one of my idols.  Yeah, it's nice, but I've just got to keep kicking on and working hard and try and push up that leaderboard tomorrow.   
 Q.  It must have been quite good for you today playing with another silver medalist in Tom?  
SAM LOCKE: Yeah, Tom was great today.  He played really nice too.  We both kind of got off to quite good starts and never really looked back from there.  We just kept going.  Yeah, he was brilliant today, so we enjoyed it.   
 Q.  Do you know Rory?  
SAM LOCKE: I've never met Rory yet, no, but we'll see.  Hopefully.   
 Q.  Do you just feel you were able to play without pressure today knowing that you had already gotten the silver medal?  
SAM LOCKE: I wanted to just make -- today, although I've made the cut and got the silver medal, I didn't want that to just -- yeah.  I want to try and get as far up that leaderboard as I can, and I don't want to just, oh, that's it, I've got it now.  The tournament still has two rounds to go, and only nine shots back, it felt like I could push up a bit and try to get -- you're trying to finish the best you can, obviously.   
So, yeah, I guess it took the pressure off a little bit, but I still wanted to do really well.  So it didn't really make a massive difference for me.   
 Q.  The galleries are willing you on.  Did you feel the crowd?  
SAM LOCKE: Yeah, they were great today.  There was a lot of them.  I didn't think there would be that many people coming.  So it was really nice to have that much support.  They were great.  First time I've obviously had a lot of people watching.  But, yeah, thoroughly, thoroughly enjoyed it.  It was good.   
 Q.  What has Paul said to you?  
SAM LOCKE: I have not spoken to him yet today.  I saw them this morning before I went out, and he obviously wished me luck.  Don't know.  I need to go and find him.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT