THE 147TH OPEN
July 20, 2018
Sam Locke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
SAM LOCKE: I felt I had to dig quite deep to get some of it back.  Nice birdies there on 13, 14, and 15.  When I felt I didn't really hit it good at all off the tee.  So it was quite a tall ask to do that, so I was pretty pleased with myself to be honest.  Poor finish again, but hopefully we'll just sneak in by one.  We'll see.   
 Q.  It was a double bogey on the 3rd.  How did you kind of gather yourself after that?  
SAM LOCKE: I just thought keep plugging away.  You never know what's round the corner in this game, especially kind of I've been putting and chipping quite good the last two days.  So I felt, if I could keep it in play on the tee, at least give myself chances for birdies.  A few of them are going to go in, and thankfully they did.   
But, yeah, at that moment, I was getting a bit kind of worried, but you just got to keep going and see what you can do.   
 Q.  Sam, have you exceeded your expectations so far with what you came down here hoping or expecting to achieve?  
SAM LOCKE: I'm not really sure, to be honest.  I didn't really put in a number what I wanted to score.  I just wanted to do the best I can every day on every single hole, just try and make it the best you possibly can.  I gave it 110 percent both days.  So hopefully, it will be enough to enjoy it another two days.   
 Q.  You've obviously been walking the course prior to the event getting under way with Paul.  What's he been saying to you about how you've done over the last couple of days?  
SAM LOCKE: I spoke to him briefly yesterday after I played -- not for too long, but he was just saying, yeah, good score.  Just keep plodding away and trying -- I was personally wanting to try and get a couple back today, just to comfortably be there and hopefully make a bit of a fish up the leaderboard.  He's been supportive this week, which has been nice, and he helps me a lot.   
 Q.  Have you been able to enjoy it?  That's all?  
SAM LOCKE: Yeah, obviously, you're coming here to enjoy it and to learn.  Obviously, it's a really different experience for me playing in front of all the crowds and the cameras and things.  But I feel like I dealt with it really well despite feeling pretty nervous for a lot of it.  But you're going to be nervous.  You're meant to be.  So I was expecting that.  But I felt like I handled it quite well, yeah.   
 Q.  Did your father help you after the start you made?  
SAM LOCKE: We just try and stay grounded really, whether it's good or bad.  So, yeah, we just treat it as each -- once we got on every tee, it's a new hole, and you try and do your best on that hole despite what the start was.   
But it was no different after the bad start to after the good run I had on the back nine, it was the same reaction.  That's what I try and do.  I try to keep everything the same.   
 Q.  What time did you have to get up this morning?  
SAM LOCKE: I was up at 3:45 this morning.  It was an early one.   
 Q.  I believe your proper boss Marian (Lawrie) was out there watching you.  
SAM LOCKE: Yeah, I didn't see her until -- I saw her coming off 13.  So, yeah, I didn't know she was coming down.  It was good to see her, obviously.   
 Q.  If you make the cut, does that get you a shift in the coffee shop?  
SAM LOCKE: Hopefully.   
 Q.  It's obviously been a big deal for yourself and for your dad as well, walking round the course here at Carnoustie the first two days of The Open with his son.  Obviously, he's there to keep you calm.  Have you been having to keep him calm?  
SAM LOCKE: I almost felt like that at times.  I think we're both in the same situation; we've both never been in this situation before.  And I think it was good that we were both together and good -- he knows my game better than anybody.  So I think it was a good fit to have on the bag.  And I think -- I mean, he's obviously my coach as well, so it's nice for me as well to have him there because I wouldn't have got here if it wasn't for him.   
No, but we both enjoy playing.  Obviously, a new experience, as I said, but I felt it worked out quite well.   
 Q.  Does he get emotional at all?  Does he manage to stay in --  
SAM LOCKE: He was pretty calm today, yeah.  He was calm today, but I don't know what he was feeling inside.  Yeah, he was fine.   
 Q.  A long, agonising wait now?  
SAM LOCKE: Yeah, hopefully the rain pours down and the wind blows hard (laughter), but we'll see.  I can't change it now.  I'm in at 3-over.  If it's good enough, it's good enough.  I've had a good week anyway, and hopefully I'm here for another two days.   
 Q.  (Inaudible).  
SAM LOCKE: I did think it was just going to sneak in at the end, but it wasn't to be.  It was a good putt.  I felt I had a pretty good tee shot, so a 5 wasn't too bad really.  I could have been in the hazard.  I could have been out of bounds.  So it could have been a lot worse than what it was.   
Yeah, it's disappointing to make two bogeys in the last three, but it could have been worse up the last.  So we'll see what happens.   
 Q.  Your goal is to refocus on the silver medal?  
SAM LOCKE: Yeah, obviously, whether I get in or not, we'll find out.  I don't know how other amateurs are getting on.  But hopefully, I'm here for the next two days and just keep doing the best I can.   
 Q.  Going forward, Sam, have you thought about any future plans?  
SAM LOCKE: Yeah, I've been trying to push for the Walker Cup team next year, but it all kind of depended on this week because you don't know how things are going to go, and everything could click, and you might turn pro straight after.  But I just tried to focus on playing and doing the best I could for the tournament.   
 Q.  You've got nothing concrete set?  You haven't got anything set out?  
SAM LOCKE: No.  I think with this game, I think it all kind of depends on how you do on results because, if you're having bad results, you know, you're not going to go turn pro.  But if you're doing really well, then obviously, that changes things, opens new doors.  But we'll just see how it goes.  I just try to take one event at a time and push on from there.   
 Q.  Will you start the qualifying process?  Will you start the European Tour qualifying process?  
SAM LOCKE: I haven't thought about it to be honest.  We'll see.   
 Q.  (Inaudible).  
SAM LOCKE: I'm not sure.  I haven't spoken to anybody at Scottish golf for a while, but we'll see.  I'm just focusing on this week at the minute, and that's all I'm thinking.   
 Q.  What do you do between now and confirmation of whether you make it or not?  
SAM LOCKE: To be honest, I'll probably go get a bite to eat and just chill out really.  I'm pretty tired after getting up that early.  Yeah, I'll probably just chill out.  Hope the rain pours harder.  (Laughter).   
 Q.  Do a rain dance.  Well done.  
SAM LOCKE: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT