THE 147TH OPEN
July 19, 2018
Sam Locke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You had a fantastic round.  How was it for you?
SAM LOCKE: It was good.  I didn't feel like I was that much in control of the ball, but I holed a lot of putts today.  So that kind of saves me a little bit.  Just really enjoyed it.  The whole experience.  Obviously, it's a bit different than what I'm used to.  Once I got the first tee shot away, I settled down a little bit.  But, no, it was a lot of fun.  I really enjoyed it.
Q. You didn't seem too fazed.  How important was it for you to stand up on that first tee?
SAM LOCKE: Yeah, it was really cool.  This is my first big pro event I've played in, and this is as good as it gets.  To do that on your first event, I felt like I dealt with it quite well.  Especially early on.  I stayed quite solid.  Yeah, I was quite nervous.  Maybe I didn't show it on the 1st tee, but it was fun.
Q. That was your first round under your belt.  Going into the rest of the week, how much confidence do you take from that?
SAM LOCKE: Yeah, especially with my putting.  I hit a lot of nice putts today that could have just slipped by, but some of them just slipped in.  Obviously -- well, recently, I've not been putting that well or chipping that well, but today I did it really good.  If I can just get it a little bit tight off the tee, then we should be in for a good week.
Q. You've got a nice tee time tomorrow as well.
SAM LOCKE: Yeah, I'm happy to go out whenever really.  But it will be nice to go out and get it done early and hopefully post a good number, and we'll see what happens.
Q. Is there any specific moment that will maybe stick out?
SAM LOCKE: The birdie at 18 was nice, yeah.  I didn't actually strike -- you know, it was a good drive down the middle, but not quite -- you know, I felt like I didn't strike it that great, but I was lucky because it kind of came back.  And then the wedge in was really nice.  Obviously, to roll it straight in the middle was a great feeling.
Q. Do you feel that you kind of belonged here?  Did it feel quite comfortable?
SAM LOCKE: I don't know.  I just went out there to try and enjoy it and play the best golf I can.  Thankfully, I posted a decent enough number that hopefully will go a couple back tomorrow.
Q. Did you ever Medinah --
SAM LOCKE: We didn't chat about Medinah, no.  We chatted about a few things but not Medinah.
Q. Was he good to play with?
SAM LOCKE: Brilliant.  Really, really nice guy.  We got along great.  Obviously, whoever I play with this week I'm going to learn a lot from them.
So, no, I think you've got, as an amateur, do the best you can, but also soak up as much as you can from the whole experience.  And obviously, just learning from the way the other guys deal with it because they've been and done it for years.  Yeah, it was good fun.
Q. Who's your caddie this week?
SAM LOCKE: My dad's on the bag this week.  He's my coach as well.  So it was quite nice for him as well to kind of -- nice for me, I think, to let him do it and just a cool experience, obviously, father and son doing it.  So it was nice.
Q. Are there any moments when you kind of had to calm down?
SAM LOCKE: I did almost start losing my temper at some point but -- no, no, we were pretty grounded most of the way, to be honest.  That's kind of what our focus was, just, yeah, it's a big event, but you've got to go and just play golf and enjoy it.  I felt like I did that today.
Q. How many drivers did you take?
SAM LOCKE: I don't know off the top of my head.  I could count but --
Q. Quite a few?
SAM LOCKE: Not a lot.  A lot of irons short of bunkers.  Yeah, I think the course kind of -- you can play it one of two ways, as a lot of the guys have been saying.  You can kind of take driver over all of them, or you leave it short.  But for me, I'm not quite long enough for some of the longer holes here.  To get over them wasn't in my reach today.  I just stuck to my game plan that I did in the practise rounds, and thankfully, it was fine.
Q. I guess (inaudible) you've been in Sky studio, has he?
SAM LOCKE: I'm not sure.  I've not seen him today.  I'll maybe see him after.  I heard he was doing some stuff for them, but I'm not sure.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT