MONSTER ENERGY NASCAR CUP SERIES: BANK OF AMERICA ROVAL 400
September 29, 2019
Alex Bowman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. First let's take care of the health issue. We saw you get out of the car immediately following the round. Are you okay?
ALEX BOWMAN: Yeah, I was really sick Wednesday, Thursday and Friday, Saturday. Felt a little better today but just really behind on being hydrated and just kind of exhausted. Was tired, everything was real tingly, so not a great feeling inside a race car, but got some fluids and hopefully feeling better and we'll be good to go in Dover. 

Q. To make your way into the next round, you had to drive from 32nd to second today. How did you get that done after the first lap and that incident, and then how tough were the final laps knowing you didn't feel well? 
ALEX BOWMAN: Yeah, I mean, probably lap 10 in the race I was pretty done and out of it, just from a physical standpoint. Just tried to keep digging. Obviously I tried to give it away on lap 1, as soon as I touched the brake pedal it started wheel hopping and turned around on me. Apologize to those that got kind of collected in that. I feel like I hurt myself more than anybody on that one. 
But glad we were able to rebound and the guys obviously gave me a really strong car to come back through the field. There at the end, just cautions were rough. Under green, it kind of is what it is; you're doing your job. But under caution when you actually have time to think about how you feel, it's not much fun.

Q. Did the red flag make it worse?
ALEX BOWMAN: Oh, yeah, for sure. I saw them coming with water to all the guys behind me and I was out of water in the car, and they didn't get to me. They got to four cars behind me and then they started rolling, and I was like, dangit, I could have used that water. Man, it's just part of it. I've felt like I've been doing a pretty good job on the physical side of things this year with a lot of help from Josh Wise and leaning on Jimmie Johnson a lot. But when you're sick, it just gets to you. 

Q. The tough part of this race, the incident with Bubba Wallace, walk us through what happened. It seemed like it had been going on for a while. 
ALEX BOWMAN: Yeah, I mean, I don't know if he was mad about the first lap or what, but obviously that was just a mistake, and then I got flipped off for every single straightaway on the entire racetrack for three laps. I got flipped off by him for like three or four laps in a row at Richmond, so I'm just over it.

Q. And you decided to take action on your own?
ALEX BOWMAN: I just got to stand up for myself at some point, right? Probably wouldn't have got wrecked if he had his finger back in the car. But just proud of our guys today, and just really focused on moving forward and being good this weekend. 

Q. This is now back‑to‑back weeks, you had the Austin Dillon incident last week and Bubba Wallace this week. Is there a concern about that moving forward as a playoff driver?
ALEX BOWMAN: No, we've just got to focus on going and running well. Obviously Dover we finished second in the spring, so our race car is going to be really strong there, and we've just got to go capitalize on that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT