MASTERS TOURNAMENT
November 10, 2020
Jon Rahm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. You had some excitement on the 16th hole. 
JON RAHM: Yeah. Yeah, pretty nice birthday present. Can't complain. Hit my normal tee shot to two feet and then skipped it and made it, which is the craziest thing, the second hole‑in‑one of the week. 

Q. Yeah, so tell us about the first one. 
JON RAHM: Well, yesterday it was on 4, I hit a 5‑iron, and we didn't know it went in. A couple people on the green, and we didn't know until we basically got to the green. But the one on 16 today was visible, so very different. You don't see people skipping it and actually hitting it on the green very often, and to make it to that back pin, clearly we were all pretty shocked. 

Q. What's your skipping club? 
JON RAHM: 4‑iron. 

Q. Did it hop on the water? 
JON RAHM: I have no idea because Rickie hit it right before me and he hit a very similar shot. His ball just was two inches lower and his plugged on the edge of the green‑‑ well, in the hazard. I hit pretty much the same shot, just got a little bit more airtime and ended up skipping it all the way there. I honestly have no idea how many. 

Q. Was there anyone there watching just by chance? 
JON RAHM: Well, Patrick Reed and Paul Casey, both of them were on 15 green taking a video, which I hope I get. I haven't sent it yet and I'd like to post it on my social media channel. There was actually quite a few people back there on the green. Some TV cameras were on just I think practicing for the week, so at least we got somewhat of a cheer. Yesterday on 4 it was complete silence. And the one on 4 is actually a lot harder than‑‑ actually I'm not going to say harder, but just a tougher hole in general. 

Q. What did you hit on that one? 
JON RAHM: On 4 it was 5‑iron, pretty downwind. 

Q. How many aces do you have in your career? 
JON RAHM: Well, the one on 16 doesn't really count as an ace. With the one on 4 yesterday, that's four. Two in competition. 

Q. Does this bode well for the week do you think for you? 
JON RAHM: It could go two ways, right; something special going on or I'm just running out of luck already, so I don't know. I knew it would be a special week given it's my birthday today, so I'm hoping it's the beginning of a lot of good things to come. 

Q. Did you see an ace in your last round here last year, too? 
JON RAHM: Yeah, on 16. I hit it to about an inch, and Justin Thomas made it on top of me. A little bit of revenge on that hole, I guess. 

Q. What will you do to celebrate tonight? 
JON RAHM: Nothing special. What can we do? Go home, have dinner and sleep. I mean, there's nothing else we can do. 
Hopefully because of being the week that it is and what's going on in the world, I think all celebrations are going to have to be postponed to when it's obviously a little less dangerous. 

Q. When you saw that ball go in, could you imagine the roar a year ago? 
JON RAHM: That's what we said, it would have been so loud, because that ball took such a long time. That pin is all the way back, and it kind of rode the edge of the ridge and it got all the way to the back of the green and just trickled down to the hole. It would have been a really special one. It would have been so loud. 
The one on 4 wouldn't because there's not that many people, but the one on 16 would have been extremely loud, and I wish‑‑ hopefully I can do it again and see what it is. 

Q. We're playing the first major of the year last; was there a moment since the restart when you felt most doubtful that we'd get to be here in Augusta in November, and how does it feel that we've made it? 
JON RAHM: Well, I mean, when we were all at home quarantining and the season was suspended, there was obviously a lot of doubt of the Masters happening, right. We all knew if it happened, it was going to happen late because they usually come out of overseed in mid‑October. It was a scare that we all had, but hey, if the only chance they could do it would have been somewhere like Thanksgiving or Christmas week, I think we would have all been here playing this tournament. We're just glad it's happening in a week that doesn't coincide with any big holidays, for example, and the fact that we're all here. We're so thankful. I don't know if there was ever a chance for them not to have the event this year, but I'm sure glad that the event happened. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT