THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 16, 2019
Jon Rahm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Jon, that was one heck of a round of golf.  How does it feel?  You really had it rolling out there.  You were on a serious roll.  
JON RAHM: Yeah, I think I've beat my third-round average by about 10 or 12 strokes.  It feels great, honestly.  Once I hit the shot on 10 -- made the turn and hit the shots I did on 10 and 11, I knew I could post a number.  I was hitting my irons very, very well, very confident.  I think the key part today was 14 and 15.  I didn't let the frustrations get to me.  Stayed a shot at a time, stayed in the present and what I had to do next, and I was able to come back with two great pars before I finished strong.   
 Q.  No. 11, you had 242 and hit that up there to three feet on that par-5.  Talk about that shot because that was really something.  
JON RAHM: So I do meters, so excuse me.  So 250 meters to get over the bunker to the edge of the green.  So that's 235, right?  With the breeze that we had, it was about a perfect stock 4-iron.  If I hit a stock 4-iron the way I do on a little bit of an up slope, it should be a perfect number to hit to the edge, and I hit it really, really solid, exactly how I wanted it, really high, started at the pin, fell left, fell a little right and landed right on the middle of the green and trickled to two feet.  It's not what you're expecting, honestly.  You're like, if I hit it to 10 feet, it's unbelievable.  Anything inside 30 feet, it's mind-blowing.  You'll take it.  I wasn't even looking, I saw the crowd cheering, I saw the ball trickled to two feet.  It's very unusual.   
 Q.  Tomorrow the weather is going to be a little rough.  What do you think?  
JON RAHM: You know, with the changes, we don't know.  Stay patient.  We'll hope the best for the weather.  I know somebody is going to come out and post a score like they've been doing the last few years.  Tiger last year had a great round early on, so I know I'm going to have to come out, and whether I'm the leader or not, I'm going to have to shoot something under par and play a good round of golf like I've been doing so far.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT