DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 18, 2018
Jon Rahm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Strong finish.  Give us your thoughts overall on today.
JON RAHM: Was a really solid round of golf.  I played really good most of the day, strong off the tee, strong with the irons.  Only missed two greens.  Made both up and downs.  I gave myself a lot of chances on the front nine, a couple more on the back nine, a lot of them.
It's tough to win when you miss that many and you're four shots back.  I was hoping to make the last one and maybe hold onto that, but I just don't see that many people falling, unless somebody might come through and make birdie and post 15 right now.
It's difficult, definitely the last few holes are not playing easy, but again, if you hit good tee shots on 17 and 18, you can post a number.
Q. I know you're probably disappointed now, but when you have time to reflect back, what positives will you take out of this week as a defending champion?
JON RAHM: I'm not disappointed at all.  The only thing that I'm disappointed at is my putting.  Wish I would have made a few more, but strong performance, top five, hopefully, without being in the best form coming in and didn't finish the year as strong as I wanted.  It's just good to finish on a positive note.  It's a pretty strong performance I believe I put in.  Hopefully in the guys don't hole out, I might have a chance to win out right.
Q. Give us your thoughts on the year as a whole; The Ryder Cup a major highlight but your overall thoughts this year.
JON RAHM: Well, it was a lot to follow after last year.  Obviously anything short of that would feel like a disappointment, but not to me.  Won twice, one on the PGA TOUR and winning the Spanish Open, which to me almost counts as a major; played on The Ryder Cup and won The Ryder Cup, and had the final Sunday showdown against Tiger, which was a dream come true.  It's probably the most emotionally fulfilled moment in my golf career.
You know, a couple good performances the in majors.  It just wasn't as good a year ball-striking as last year, but still very strong.  I'm saying that with a sad face, but still two wins, Top-10 in the world, there's a lot to look forward to for next year.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT