THE RYDER CUP
September 30, 2018
Jon Rahm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JON RAHM: You know, a lot going on just to get ready for this match, just to go back to what Jon Rahm Golf is all about, and make sure my emotions were in check.  I think I was fairly balanced all day.  I never got mad.  Was always patient even on the last two holes, going back to even, all-square.  You know, the incredible pride I feel to play the way I did; to beat Tiger Woods.  I mean, I grew up watching that guy.  Last week I was making a video from the top of East Lake clubhouse, just watching him win his 80th event, the list goes on and on.
To play the golf I did, barely missed any shots, got up early and to clinch it the way I did after the missed putt on 16, it's a lot of emotions.  There was a lot of people I was playing for, but more importantly myself.  The pride I feel right now, it's undescribable.
Q. Tiger Woods, that's a lot for a big rookie like you?
JON RAHM: Yeah, I am big.  A lot went into this match today, starting yesterday, once I found out, and a lot of mental work just to get ready.
So much going through my mind.  I can't explain it, but the No. 1 thing that I thought is that this happened for a reason.  You know, I'm playing against arguably the scariest player in history, the best player in history on a course that suits him pretty well because he doesn't have to hit many drivers and he putts pretty well.  It's not like the odds are in my favor; I like to hit driver.  I had to play my best golf and I did.  After what happened on 16, and to come back on 17 and do what I did is really special.
Q. What's your feeling when you make that putt?  You shout like crazy, that must be pretty special?
JON RAHM: That was for Seve.  That was for him, not for me.  That was for him.
Q. Not many people have beat Tiger Woods in singles.
JON RAHM: Yeah, it's not easy for somebody like me who has never played Tiger before to play a vital match against him.  No matter what happened in the day, I know my opponent is not going to go easy.
We both played well.  He made a couple good par saves and lucky for me, I wasn't able to convert a couple birdie putts.  He just played steady golf.  I knew if I didn't make mistakes, I was going to have my chance and I had a chance on 16 to go door any.  But I'm just happy the way it happened.  I played arguably the best golf in all my life on the last hole.  It's a perfect drive, great wedge shot and then to make that putt, to be honest, I didn't see the ball go in.  I just knew it was going in, so everything came out of me a little prematurely.  A lot going on, very emotional win, very special.  Couldn't be happier that I helped the team.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT