PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 9, 2018
Jon Rahm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 12 of 14 fairways.  I think it's no secret, to play well out here, you have to drive it well.  Just talk about how you were able to do that today.
JON RAHM: I hit 12 of 14?  Yeah, I missed 18.  Yeah, I did have a feeling that I was hitting it really well on the tee.  It definitely helps, you know, the rough after the rain and then having sunny days, it's got longer and so thick.  On days you get lucky and you have a really good lie, you can't really predict what's going to happen, you can't control what's going to happen.
If you're in the fairway with the greens still being soft and firm, you can still attack it no matter what you have in your hands.  So it's being in the fairway definitely, definitely helps to be more aggressive.
Q. Compared to last week in Akron, you took some really wide open shots.  So maybe you can be a little more aggressive?
JON RAHM: Yeah, Akron, it's a really narrow course for the length of it.  This one does have a little wider field, for the most part, but you still need to make your shots.  If you miss the fairway, you get a lot more penalized than we did in Akron last week, I believe.  Out of the rough last week, sometimes you can advance it.  Here you can miss the fairway by a yard and not be able to move it much.
Like myself, I got really lucky in two on 18 to be able to hit it onto the green.  It could have been really, really bad.  It is a little wider, but you still need to play good golf.
Q. Giving one back at the end, 2 under par, all in all, content with the round?
JON RAHM: Yeah, definitely content.  It's just, as usual, it's just harder to make putts in the afternoon.  It's harder for the ball to keep the line unless you hit it really close to the green.  It's hard to hit it hard.  It is what it is.  I played really good golf, and hopefully I can keep it going off the tee like I did today and post a number again tomorrow.
Q. Jon, these major weeks are pretty pressure packed, but you probably had the most pressure situation in your life last month.  What was proposing like?  How nerve-racking was that?
JON RAHM: No, it was before the U.S. Open.  I've been asked that question many times, and my answer is always the same.  If there's ever a doubt that she's going to say no, I under the nervousness, but in my case, I was 100 percent sure she was going to say yes.  I wasn't nervous much the only worry I had was to make the day as perfect as possible.  I got lucky that it turned out pretty perfect.
Q. Did you have any trouble picking out that ring?
JON RAHM: I designed it, no.  So Brian Stuard's fiancee or wife is a jeweler and is a really good friend of ours.  So Kelley was talking to her.  She knew what Kelley wanted, but I had my own ideas.  Basically, with her help, I designed the ring.  She wanted to pick the diamond, but I knew what I wanted.  I designed what's around the ring.  It's supposed to look like a crown and an engraving inside.  I had a big part in it.  It wasn't exactly what she wanted, but she loves it.  It's a little more personal like that.
Q. Do you feel like a different man now after having done that or still the same?
JON RAHM: For our relationship, we started dating in college.  We moved in after six months, and we've been living together for two years already.  I think we acted and both felt like a married couple already.  We felt like being official in that sense, so it really hasn't changed much in that sense.
Q. Do you have a time of the year when you guys are thinking about doing the wedding?
JON RAHM: No.  We decided that for the first six months to pretty much the end of the year, we were not going to think about it too much, just enjoy the process.  It's not like we have spare time as golfers to do it whenever.  So we want to make sure we like the location and the time.  Both families living so far apart, when they're able to make it.  It's a lot of details when you have two different families on two different continents.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT