DUBAI DUTY FREE IRISH OPEN HOSTED BY THE RORY FOUNDATION
July 8, 2018
Jon Rahm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  It's been a tough week, you got off to a slow start but from that second hole onward today, obviously disappointing, to play some great golf for the rest of the round?  
JON RAHM: I was 9-under on the last 16 holes.  What am I going to say.  I missed a lot of shots today.  I'm not going to lie, I missed a lot of shots.  One of them cost me a triple-bogey yet again but you hit the ball out-of-bounds, what are you going to do.   
To be honest, to shoot 66, the way I played, from the spots I hit it to today, chipping on 6, saving par on 9, 14, and to make the putts I made and the up-and-down on 13 for birdie it seemed quite unreal.  There was a lot of good that came after that.  I played 16, 17, 18 really good, also 15, but to be honest I was just trying to get to double digits to finish as high as possible.  Once I made that birdie on 15, I was like, strong finish might actually scare the people ahead of me.   
At the same time, I'm really happy for Jorge to finish the way he did and it make the par putt, and hopefully it's enough to win, maybe a playoff.  It would be great to see another Spaniard win after me.   
 Q.  Great preparation for Carnoustie in two weeks' time?  
JON RAHM: Yeah, it's never easy to defend a title.  It's obviously a little extra players when you come here as one of highest-ranked players in the world, as well.  But everybody around the tournament, the sponsor, Dubai Duty Free, they were great.   
Obviously a slow start, to shoot over par but it got rolling.  I feel like yesterday could have been a better day than what it was, and getting myself in contention two weeks in a row, looking up to The Open, hopefully avoid the two mistakes that have cost me so much.  In the last two weeks, four double-bogey, and triples and I finish top five in both events.  If I can avoid that, I know I'm playing good enough.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT