WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 21, 2018
Jon Rahm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Jon, there are good half points, there are bad half points.  I'm going to assume that was a good half point for you?  
JON RAHM: It depends when you ask me.  I probably played the first five holes about as good as you can play them.  Didn't miss a single shot.  I was 3-up with five birdie opportunities.  To be honest, I was real close.   
After that, I felt like I was hitting good shots but I was getting close from putting some pressure on Keegan.  I was still 3-up.  On 10, I hit -- 10, 11 and 12, I thought I hit shots that were good, but they weren't as close as I would have especially after making that birdie on 9 to halve the hole.  I thought I had a good momentum going, good shots.   
Man, he played some great golf.  Hit a good shot on 10, made great putts on 11 and 12 and a couple of really closer ones.   
I feel like this match could have gone either way.  I just wasn't able to put enough pressure.  I think 16 is a great example of it.  I'm in the bunker and I need to just hit it on the green, probably just two-putt to win the hole.  I don't know really what happened.  It was a bad shot, bad planning.  I was too fast in the process and ended up missing it.  I'll take that half.   
After that par putt on 17, if you told me I was going to win 18 and tie the match, I would have for sure taken it.   
 Q.  It was interesting to watch the ebb and flow, the tension in the match from 15 on in, because you both had chances.  Maybe a little bit aggressive, each of you, but you were able to recover?  
JON RAHM: I mean, you know, it was just -- hole No. 15, when I hit a drive, it was an inch from being way down there in the fairway and having 60 yards to the pin.  Ended up in the bunker, bad lie, bad stance, I was dead in the hole.  Hitting a bad chip shot afterwards.  I totally deserved to lose that hole, I'm not going to lie.   
Played a good 16, played a good 17.  It was just I wish it would have been a prettier win on this last hole, to be honest.  But I'll take it.  I feel like I had enough bad luck last year on this hole.  I'll take this win this way.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT