DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 16, 2017
Jon Rahm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How was that today?  
JON RAHM: It was great.  You know, I feel like my game is really, really solid and really comfortable with everything.  It's just, you know, the few mistakes that I made, I couldn't scramble and it cost me bogeys.  I missed an iron shot on 6, the driver on 9, they ended up being too costly.  But besides that, a good day.  Finished on a really positive matter with the up-and-down on 17 and 18 for birdie.   
 Q.  A few centrally-placed bunkers out there, as well.  With your added length off the tee, is that an advantage?  
JON RAHM: It does give me an advantage.  It definitely is.  But there's a couple that I could fly comfortably.  That's why I was able to drive it so well, besides the few that I missed.   
No. 9 is the one that comes to mind, but the rest were pretty solidly.  It does help when you have a wedge instead of an 8-iron, that's for sure.   
 Q.  Does the game feel like in a place where you could potentially win this week?  
JON RAHM: It does.  To be honest I haven't felt this comfortable in a while.  I was telling Adam, I'm extremely comfortable and every strike is really pure.  Everything felt great.  Again, the few tiny mistakes that ended up costing me bogeys.   
 Q.  Something seemed to upset you on 13.  What was the problem?  
JON RAHM: On 13?   
 Q.  Was it 13, was there a problem with the cameraman on one of the holes?  
JON RAHM: No, it was just -- I mean, I really missed that shots and when I miss shots, I look away.  It was really far right, and missed the chip.  So it was just a couple bad shots in a row.  I got mad at how bad of a swing I made.   
 Q.  Seemed unhappy with the camera people in general.  Did something happen?  
JON RAHM: I didn't see anything.  Sometimes I look at them just because they might be moving, trying to set up the angle and I just wait.  I did it on 15 on my second shot.  Did a couple extra swings because I know they were getting ready.  I don't want to hit it when I see something in my view.  Besides that, I mean, I've had no problem.   
 Q.  You're on TV all the time.  
JON RAHM: Unless I'm trying to walk, I think it was on the par 3 where I was looking down and I saw the camera and I turned around.  But besides that, no problem.   
 Q.  Are you looking at leaderboards?  Were you keeping an eye?  I know you can't win The Race to Dubai, but you want to finish as high as you can.  Were you looking at leaderboards?  
JON RAHM: I feel like realistically, the only chance I got is to advance one spot, and the guy I played with today -- we're pretty much tied.  Unless I win and Justin Rose plays really bad the next three days, which doesn't seem like it's going to happen which last time I checked he was 5-under.  Once they told me I couldn't win, it was just, try to play the best I can, hopefully win the tournament and finish as high as possible.   
You do look at leaderboards to see how people are playing.   
 Q.  Do you think those mobile cameramen could be a bit intrusive at times?  
JON RAHM: No, they are doing their job.  It is sometimes, you know some, players are ready to hit it faster than others and then they rush to try to get in position so people back home can see the shot.  Sometimes as players we know that, so either you anticipate it and hit it through the motion.  It's just what you have to do.  Sometimes we get irritated.  You know, as professional athletes, we try to blame other people when it's our fault.  We might do that but besides that -- we all know it, so it doesn't matter.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT