ITALIAN OPEN
October 15, 2017
Jon Rahm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You saved your best till the last with a final round 65.  Give us your thoughts on the round today?  
JON RAHM: I wouldn't say I saved it.  I just didn't bring it out earlier.   
You know, today, ball-striking was probably the best round I've had besides the hiccup on 15, which was really just a flyer out of the right rough.  It was just a really solid round.   
You know, too bad the whole thing all week was I just couldn't convert the putts.  I couldn't make them the first two days.  I didn't hit it close enough and the next two I just couldn't make those putts from ten to 15 feet for birdie, which gives you good scores.   
But today on that back nine, I seemed to hit a couple good shots, make a couple good putts and it got me going.   
Too bad we don't have 18 more holes or something like that where I could get closer to the lead.   
 Q.  Overall, have you enjoyed your week at The Italian Open?  
JON RAHM: Definitely.  Definitely.  To finish Top-10, which is one of the big goals of mine, the three tournaments I've set foot in Europe soil, to finish Top-10 in all of them; finished ninth in France, I won in Ireland and to finish Top-10 in this one would be an amazing week.  Hopefully I can get it done.   
Overall, really fun week.  The Italian crowd, it's amazing.  Italy has been really, really fun.  The food has been great.  Nothing you can complain about.   
 Q.  What can you take from this performance into next week?  
JON RAHM: When you have a week like this and finish off on such a good note, with a chip-in and birdie on 18, I hit three perfect shots on 18 for birdie.  So it's always a good momentum.   
What I can take is maybe my short irons with maybe not from a hundred to 140 yards to be a little more precise, especially going to Valderrama.  I think I left a lot of shots out there the past few days.  These are the kind of mistakes you can't make at Valderrama.  Ideally, it should suit my game.  It's a ball-striker's course but you never know.  It's a tough test, so hopefully I can take the positivity from today.   
 Q.  How excited are you about next week?  
JON RAHM: Obviously I'm extremely excited to be honest.  I really don't know what to expect; if I had such a welcome here in Italy, I cannot tell you what Spain is going to be like.  It's going to be like anatomic bomb going off when I go to the first tee, which I'm really excited about.   
The last time I was in Valderrama, I was there for the Volvo Masters and ten years ago.  I have memories from ten years ago, so hopefully this week is just as fun as that one.   
My game is pretty close, to be honest.  The back nine was as good as it's going to be, shooting five birdies and one bogey.  If I can, like I said, dial in the irons a little bit and maybe make a few putts, I think it's going to be as good as it can be.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT