THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 26, 2017
Jon Rahm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How would you assess your round out there today?
JON RAHM: It was a round with a lot of potential.  There's not many times we're on a golf course like this where you're 3-under par through 11 and you feel like it could have been a lot better.  I felt like it was really, really good ball-striking-wise, since the beginning, hit a lot of good shots.
Weirdly enough, my driver was a little bit off on a couple of occasions.  I'm not hitting as confident as I have, and all throughout the year, but still very good.  Too bad a couple putts didn't drop in but very happy with the finish I had.
Q. When your driver, as you said, isn't quite on and you're still able to score the way you have this week, does that give you more confidence?
JON RAHM: Not quite on, it's barely missing fairways.  It's just a little bit of uncertainty of what the ball is going to do.  I'm not having 100 percent of control, but there's a lot of tee shots here that don't require driver.  Luckily for me, I hit the ones that matter in the fairway and the ones I missed, I missed on the right side to give myself a chance.
The three chances that I had today were key.  They were not easy.  The last two on the last two holes -- could have been a horrible ending to a good round.  A lot of good vibes going into tomorrow and hopefully everything falls into place.
Q. Does the course lend itself to catching Jordan?  Are there enough birdies and mistakes potentially?
JON RAHM: Well, he's got at least a five-shot lead on me right now.  A five-shot lead requires two things:  A really good round from whatever is coming from behind and the leader to stumble a little bit.  And Spieth is not known for being one to stumble.  Last time he actually made a little bit of a mistake and ended up with a finish for the ages at The Open.  You never know.  He's not going to give it to you.  You need to have a really good round tomorrow because that guy can seriously close it out.
Q. Will that make you sort of be aggressive from the start?
JON RAHM: It has to.  I mean, we need to make up shots as fast as possible, as early as possible.  You know, hopefully I can get off to a good start like I did today and make a few putts early and who knows.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT