BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 16, 2017
Jon Rahm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So what did you think of the round out there today?  
JON RAHM: Well, it was a great round, you know, it's very similar to yesterday's ball striking wise.  I hit the ball really well both days but the only difference today I was able to make a couple putts, especially the putt on 17, the putt on 17 and 15, those two putts really good on the back-9 to be able to post a really good score.   
 Q.  You're sitting here way down on the board to start the day.  Just sort of free-wheel it a little bit?  
JON RAHM: Not really.  I wasn't trying to free-wheel anything.  I knew I had to do the same exact thing tee to green.  I've been hitting limit driver amazingly.  I had to hope to make a couple putts, which I did today.  I still missed a few.   
My ball-striking was probably close to the best it's ever been right now so hopefully I can keep going tomorrow and make a few more putts.   
 Q.  Why is that ball-striking so well right now?  
JON RAHM: I have no idea.  It's just what happens.  I think I'm confident the last two weeks.  I've been really close timing-wise, really close to hitting really good shots.   
My swing hasn't been a hundred percent, maybe 90 percent.  This week it's close to a hundred percent.  I'm visualizing the shots, hitting them a lot close to the way I see it.   
I hit more that two perfect shots a round you're having a really good ball-striking day.  I'm fortunate to say there's been least two of them each round.  Hopefully I can keep it going.   
 Q.  How do you feel going into Atlanta feeling this way?  
JON RAHM: Nothing but amazing.  Hopefully I can keep it going for a couple more days.  It's always good to get good feelings and no matter what happens tomorrow we can leave here and keep going at this pace it's going to be hard to catch up.  Having a positive round on Sunday, finish as high as possible.  Very important going to Atlanta.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT