DELL TECHNOLOGIES CHAMPIONSHIP
September 3, 2017
Jon Rahm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Kind of an up-and-down day.  Talk about your round a little bit please?  
JON RAHM: It's been a bit of like the opposite to what the other days have been, right.  1 through 9, actually 1 through 10, I was hitting good shots and hitting it close to the pin.  I didn't make as many putts as I've been making the first few days.  That's probably why I was only 2-under with a couple of good opportunities that I missed.   
After that, I was making good swings.  I just think things didn't happen.  11, it's just a hard hole.  12, I don't seem to find a strategy on that hole.  I can't really understand it.   
You know, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, were all swings the way we saw.  It's just the ball never ended nearly close to what we hoped.  On 13, it was 35, 40 feet short.   
15, sliced out somehow.   
On 16, I hit a 7-iron 195 yards into the wind.   
The pitching wedge on 17 landed, what, six feet left of the pin and spun back 30 feet.   
And then 18, well, 18 was a good shot.  It was two really good shots.  It's just nothing really happened.  You know, started second-guessing myself.  Didn't hit good putts and ended up with, you know, two 3-putts and an over-par back nine.  Kind of one of those days.  It's been the opposite to the other two days.  Hope tomorrow is a good day.   
 Q.  Given things didn't go your way and you're still in contention, do you take any motivation from that?  
JON RAHM: Well, let me be frustrated for awhile.  I will be a little bit frustrated for awhile, because it always is bad when you're making good swings, and things don't happen.   
But I probably, you know, get to the hotel room lay down for a little bit and realize the fact that I'm still three shots back.  Last week I was five back starting the day and at one point I was one off the lead.   
You know, if I can keep being patient, playing good.  I also saw the people who were ahead of me averaged like, 5-, 6-, 7-under par, I don't know, apparently it's like a birdie-fest out there.  Hopefully it's not the same tomorrow and maybe I'm the one making 4-, 5-, 6-under par and maybe get a chance.   
Still over there.  Nothing's lost yet.  Last tournament I won in the States I was three shots back going into the final day, so the hope is still up.   
 Q.  Is this a course do you think you can jump on early?  
JON RAHM: Oh, you definitely can.  If my ball doesn't go in a divot on the fairway on 2, I could have started that way and maybe it changes the whole dynamic of the day.  You definitely can start off with a good day.   
No. 1, all you need to do is put it on the fairway and you have something no longer with a 9-iron into the wind.   
2 being a par 5; 4 a very short par 4.  You can definitely start with a good day like Rickie did.  If you get lucky, hit a good drive, hit the green in two, you might start to see yourself with four birdies in a row.  Definitely a good way to start.   
It's a good course to start with some birdies but it's a lot of holes that are hard coming up half wards.  So hopefully I can get myself in contention going down the stretch and see how it goes.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT