THE 146TH OPEN
July 20, 2017
Jon Rahm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JON RAHM: 17, so basically I just don't know how to call the plants, the one with thorns in it about three feet long.  It was an inch and a half over, just right on my ball, you know, standing back.  So basically when I got there it was not on my line.  It would not have affected my swing, unless I hit a 50-yard slice, which was not the case for any player in the world in that situation.  I got there, I thought it was a loose impediment because it looked dead, and I just moved it to the side.  That's when Lee came, he realized it was attached.  It was not loose.  It was still there.
And we asked the rules official, he said obviously had I improved my lie -- improving my lie, moving an impediment not loose is a two-stroke penalty.  That's what we agreed on.  He said we were going to go on.  And then we just discussed it.  Basically the discussion was, was it an improvement of the lie or not?  That's it.  I explained my version of what happened.  Unfortunately for me I was the only one who saw it.  There were no cameras to back me up.  That's what happened.  And it was never on my lie.  It was never in my line, never on my swing path.  It was not going to bother me anyway.
So basically after that they made the decision that there was no stroke penalty.  Like I said, I just moved it.  It was like a reflex.  It was automatic.  I thought it was dead, so I just moved it to the side.
Q. (Inaudible.)
JON RAHM: Yeah, yeah.  Well, at the end of the day it's not my call, honestly.  I can describe what happened as honestly and truthfully as possible, as detailed as can happen.  And they make the judgment call.  It's up to them.  They did say it's a very fine line, I would have been fine with whatever the rules official -- they know the rules better than any of us and it's their call.  I said the same two weeks ago.  It was their call to give me a penalty stroke or not.  It's not up to me, obviously.
Q. (Inaudible.)
JON RAHM: Well, he said right now it's a two-stroke penalty, because I was hitting my fourth.  But we were going to review the footage.  If there was any footage, unfortunately there's not afterwards.  And we're still in the discussion with Lee and Patrick.  Patrick didn't see anything.  Apparently nobody saw anything but me, because I was blocking Lee.  Lee explained his facts, I explained what happened from my point of view and they made the call.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT