THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 25, 2017
Jon Rahm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Your analysis of how you played today?  
JON RAHM: It was a good day.  I felt really comfortable with everything.  Too bad I missed a couple of those drivers on my back nine, 3, 4 and 5.  I was able to put them in position.  Even the one on 4 ended up in position; who knows what could have happened.  Maybe looking at maybe posting a 6-under total.   
Even though I made a couple mistakes, I'm really pleased with the way I've been playing.   
 Q.  How would you describe the golf course?  
JON RAHM: It's hard to describe it.  Because it's got some resemblance to Augusta National; the fact that there's some wide fairways that go to different holes, and it's just way open areas.  But I can't really explain which one it gets close to.   
The first few holes have a bit of a Congressional vibe to it, to maybe a mix of both.  Any time you're comparing to courses like Augusta National or Congressional, you know you're playing a really, really good golf course.  My description would be a really, really quality golf course where you need to put it in the fairway.   
 Q.  What are you working on this afternoon, anything in particular?  
JON RAHM: I mean, probably going to work on how long it takes me to get back to the hotel from here right now.  That's about it.  I don't think I need to work on anything.  The putting feels good.  The iron game feels a lot better than yesterday, and the driver was good.  It's just we're not always going to hit every one perfect.   
 Q.  How would you describe your round?  
JON RAHM: I would say it's a solid round.  I'm really, really happy with the way I hit the ball today.  Besides a couple tee shots on my back nine, 3, 4 and 5, but besides that, I'm really pleased.   
 Q.  The comfort on a golf course that you haven't played -- you're young out here on the PGA TOUR --  
JON RAHM: As quickly as you can.  You need to get comfortable with the lines.  Unless they switch up the tee box drastically, it's not going to be a big difference in the way we played it in the practice rounds.   
To be honest, it's going to be tough but you're going to have a put you've never seen before.  You don't know what it's going to do.  You might misread the break or misjudge the speed, and that's going to happen because it's the first time we've played.  It's happened to me on a lot of golf courses.  Every time we play, we learn more of the course.   
 Q.  This is your first venture into the FedExCup Playoffs, this four-tournament stretch.  Mentally or attitude-wise, do you approach these tournaments differently than you would a regular-season event?  
JON RAHM: I try not to.  I've had some success in the regular season, right.  So I'll try to approach it as what it is, four more events.  I mean, we always try to say that.  It is the Playoffs and it's quadruple the points for the win.  So we know it's a little bit more important -- being a rookie, I wouldn't really know but I guess the closer East Lake comes, the more important it's going to feel.  Hopefully I'm going to keep my nerves under control.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT