BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
August 30, 2020
Jon Rahm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Incredible, just absolutely incredible.  We were standing on the range about 20 minutes ago when Dustin made that putt to force the playoff.  How were you able to keep your poise and get the job done here?
JON RAHM:   Well, you know, last time I had a wait having a one-shot lead with a couple groups to go was in Palm Springs, and Andrew Landry came in at 18 and made birdie and we went into a playoff.  I reminded myself that anything is possible.  When you guys told me where DJ was putting from, I didn't see it, I just knew he just had to get the ball rolling on the right direction and that putt was in, and I knew how good DJ has been playing I was expecting nothing else.  I was fully confident it was going to come into a playoff and hoping to win it.  Never did I think I would make another 50-, 60-footer, a couple of breaks in there to end up winning it.
Q. What does it say about your mental strength that you were able to overcome the scene at 5 green yesterday to get yourself in this position in the first place?
JON RAHM:   Well, it seems like it was so long ago, right.  At that point I made bogey there, I was 3-over par -- no, sorry, I was at 4-over par, and a lot of holes to play.  Yesterday was just trying to finish strong and get myself in contention, and once I teed off today with the good weather and how I started striping it the first few holes I knew I had a chance.  I just tried not to think about it.  I had such a good round yesterday and I was so proud of making the six-footer for bogey that it just went right through my mind and focused on the task at hand.
Q. I think the last time we saw a reaction like that on an 18th green was at Torrey Pines years ago when you got that victory.  Any similarities in feel there?
JON RAHM:   Yes.  It was a long putt, even though that time two putts was enough and I had to hit it a lot softer, but very similar idea.  I had to get it to a spot on the left side and just let it ride the slope.  Honestly I hoped it would be a decent putt for par coming back and have a chance to keep the playoff going.  Luckily it looked really good on the way and when it had 10 feet to go it was tracking beautifully.  I could hardly believe it.  Yeah, very similar reaction and feeling that I had at that point.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT