DUBAI DUTY FREE IRISH OPEN HOSTED BY THE RORY FOUNDATION
July 9, 2017
Jon Rahm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Many congratulations, if you are going to win a tournament and shoot 65 on the final day, that's doing it in some style.  
JON RAHM: Thank you.  That makes two for two, shooting 65 in the final round.  Obviously it's a very different tournament here for me.  I've been saying, I haven't played my best golf, and today, for 15 holes, I played the best golf I can ever play on the golf course with the weather that we had.  Obviously the bonus of holing out on 4 was great, but man, this is a nice feeling.   
 Q.  Did that give you the momentum?  Was that the moment you thought, yes, I can go on and win that tournament when that fairway shot went in?  
JON RAHM: There were 15 holes left, 14 holes left.  I did not think that.  I thought, well, I have myself a little gap right now; let's increase it.  It did give me a lot of confidence.  I knew there were a couple holes coming up I could take advantage of.  It really was quite special.   
 Q.  Bogey on the last but maybe a little bit of nerves and the expectation that's coming, knowing you've lifted a trophy and you've won by six shots.  
JON RAHM: I know what I'm capable of.  If you're talking about The Open, well, I can imagine there will be some expectations.  But that's why I'm taking a week off, regroup and go to The Open like nothing happened, but knowing in my mind that I can perform at my best.   
 Q.  There was a little incident with the rules, but obviously mental strength came into play after that, just to keep you focussed on the rest of the round?  
JON RAHM: Yeah, I mean, it happened, I thought I put it back on the same spot.  When Andy came back and told me, explained what happened, I normally marked it on the ide and I thought I put it back on the same spot.  I think the fact that I knew, I was conscious that I did that, I think that helped him.   
I haven't seen the footage.  I can't tell you.  I haven't seen how close or far it is.  I did plan like they were going to give me a penalty stroke, even if I asked and they said no.  That's probably why I got a little more intense on the reaction on 14 and maybe poor management of emotions towards the end.  But I was just trying to prepare for the worst.  That's probably why I made that eagle putt, as well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT