THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 13, 2017
Jon Rahm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I know it's a fairly rough day for you out there.  How difficult was it for you to kind of get your emotions reined in there early on?  I know you said you want to work on that, but the course and the score today was tough.
JON RAHM: Well, nothing on the course, but once I realized that it was 7-over through 7, I kind of went away.  Just every shot was -- I made a lot of good swings that I just keep getting bad breaks or not what I hoped for and it was just I kept getting pounded and pounded.  The birdie on 9, great two swings on 10, I thought things were going to maybe turn.  And, nothing.  I go long, chip it, 3-putt from four feet and I kept just getting pounded more into the ground.  It was not the best day I've had let's put it that way.
Q. Is this one that you just try to erase and move on?
JON RAHM: There's nothing else to do.  There's nothing, very few good things coming outs of today really, so it's not, nothing else I can do.  Enjoy the extra day of rest.
Q. The one time you missed a cut you shot 69 and 70, they were decent scores.  Was this a shock to the system at all?
JON RAHM: The what?
Q. Just going through the day, was it a bit of a shock to the system?
JON RAHM: Yeah, it was not, it was not expected, honestly, because I made bogey on 2 and I didn't think I missed any of the first three shots.  I felt like they were all good and I ended up making a bogey.  Bad lie on 3.  And then on 4 I do not know what went through my body to almost shank a 4-iron in the water.  To be honest, I had five putts in the first four holes and I was 3-over par.  So putting was working and then after that things just went down.
6 -- it just went down.  I missed two putts from inside two feet.  I don't know what I can say about that.  Towards the end I feel like my body just wasn't responding and it's something that hasn't happened in a while and times before I've been able to come back from it.  Like it happened at Palm Springs, I was 4-over through 5 and I ended up at even par.  Tried to keep the mindset but it just wasn't happening.  Even on 16 I hit one of the purest iron shots I've ever hit out of a divot on the second shot and it landed on the down slope, almost ended up in the water, luckily made birdie though.  You know, it's just things that happen.  It's golf.
Q. When you took the drop on 4 did you use a 4-iron for the second shot as well, after the tee shot in the water?
JON RAHM: Yeah.
Q. So when you jabbed the club in the ground that was for the tee shot, it wasn't for that shot, because that shot was fine, right?  You know what I'm talking about, right?
JON RAHM: Yeah, I don't know what good can come from talking about that.  To be honest, I don't remember.  I think it was the second one, but that was just all the anger and frustration of the first four holes, honestly.  But yeah I don't know.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT