THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 11, 2017
Jon Rahm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Can you talk about the wind out there?  I know on 16 you had a good approach shot and came up a little short, but how much did the wind factor today?
JON RAHM: Well, obviously wind is always a factor on such a precision course like today, but talking about 16, I had a 9-iron in.  I was not trying to land it nearly close to the green, I was trying to land it about five yards past the bunker.  I just mis-hit it and I went a little too steep got caught up in the Bermuda grass and mis-hit it.  Luckily it got over the bunker, but that was it.  I would say it's always a hard course, but the wind -- I would say it's hard to predict.  Obviously it's going to be harder on par-3s with the greens being firm.  You need to land it very precisely.
No. 3 was one of them, it was easy to go over or short, like both my playing partners.  Luckily I landed on the perfect spot.  I think picking out the trajectory you wanted the ball coming into the green was the important part today with that wind.  If you were able to do that, you would get rewarded with the shot, if not, you know you're going to have to struggle for a par.
Q. You like to play aggressively, but this course it seems like you really have to pick and choose your spots; how much were you having to think about that?
JON RAHM: Well, you know, most of the courses we play throughout the year, it's more hitting drivers hard is what I like to do, sometimes not even caring if I'm in the fairway or not because a wedge -- or 60 yards out of the rough might be just as good as being on the fairway.  And this is a course that you can't do that on, so it really -- I just had to pick out how far I wanted to be into the green or if I wanted to make sure I was in the fairway or if I wanted to make sure I was close to the green, and that's what we did.
I don't mind hitting my driving iron off the tee.  I enjoy it.  I didn't hit my best tee shots today on a couple of the holes today as I could have, but I had good numbers in so I was able to work around that.  Obviously today the key was that every time I missed the fairway I was able to put it on the green, like on 4 and 5, which was very good --
Q. That's not easy.
JON RAHM: Exactly.  And if I missed the green I was able to scramble for par, which is key.  To be honest, anything around even par would have been a happy round in the course conditions that we had today.  It's still surreal that I went bogey-free.  I can't explain how that happened.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT