MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 6, 2017
Jon Rahm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. (No Microphone.)
JON RAHM: It's not easy to make putts, that's the main thing. And when the wind blows, it's really, really hard, it's a tough golf course. I didn't know what to expect coming out today, because there's not many days where the wind blows as hard as it's been blowing today. And to have my first Masters appearance and having played only three rounds before, like I said, I had no idea what to expect, which was kind of nice, right? I had nothing on my mind, I just went out there and played golf. 
I hit a horrible first tee shot, the greatest second shot I probably will ever hit on this golf course and then that had the round going. I played great golf, just a couple misses towards the end and a couple of missed putts early makes it a little worse score than what I feel like. So that's always good if you feel like you're playing better than what you shoot.

Q. A lot of good par putts in the middle there, a lot of good saves, kind of grinding things out there for awhile. Does that give you confidence going into tomorrow?
JON RAHM: Of course, yeah, I made a couple good ones. I made a great par putt on 11, on 7 as well. 
Great birdie putt on 8 and 9. 7, 8, 9, was a good streak for me. 
I almost made that par at 6 as well. 
So it's something that I'm going to have to remember, right? I played smart, I missed smart, and just keep playing like that. It's a golf course that makes you think, but it's doable if you are smart and you're aggressive when you have to be. 
For me, I'll feed off it up until the end, because it kind of went off track on the last few holes, but there's a lot left to be played.

Q. Were you pretty surprised on 17 with the way that ball ended up. Were you surprised it didn't clear the bunker?
JON RAHM: No, I'm surprised at the lie I got. It's just been three weeks in a row where I hit a perfect, like a ball that just rolls down right on the uphill of the bunker and which should be a good lie and it ends up being rather a bad one. 
It just happens. It's golf. Things are going to happen. I'm pretty sure maybe in a couple other days I'm going to get great lies. 
I also hit the stands once and ended up in a perfect spot to make an up‑and‑down on 4. 
So, you know, on 12th, the ball came down from the forest somehow. So it all balances out. 
Like I said, I've been playing great golf today and the last few weeks and I feel like I played better than the score shows, but it's still a great score.

Q. Talk about 15, how you played it. A lot of players that have played here for a long time struggled on 15. 
JON RAHM: Well, I followed my caddie's advice and just tried to put it somewhere in the fairway off the tee, which was not an easy task today. And then he always told me to lay up left. Once you lay up left, you kind of go up the hill and you have that slope on the right to use. I hit a perfect shot, just left of the pin, I had what, 72 yards? And probably hit it about as good as I can. I hit it, it went about 10 feet right of the pin, with a little draw, because of the lie, and the ball just took the whole slope right down to the hole. It's not an easy shot, honestly, it's not an easy shot. I did it exactly perfectly the way I saw it. And I don't know if I'm going to ever do it again soon, but when my caddie told me on those holes, I kind of listened to him and it worked out.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT