WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 26, 2017
Jon Rahm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Jon, I'm standing here with you.  It was a gallant performance, but you're feeling pretty bad about what happened on the 18 with the door slamming?
JON RAHM: It feels so bad because of all the work I did on the back nine to come from almost five down, to almost have a chance, it's not easy -- to have a 12-footer for birdie and maybe win the hole.  When something like that happens.  It's really unfortunate.  I understand if I miss the shot, but it's something -- and then when it happens, it just makes you feel a little worse.  It's something that I can't control.  I wish it hadn't happened.
There's a lot of positive to take out of this week.  I'll be sad for a couple of minutes, but then I'll be fine.
Q. Great performance this week, you're a European Tour member now, as well.  Thomas Bjorn, Ryder Cup, be positive, that was a good performance this week against world No. 1.  You took him to the 18th hole.  You must be proud.
JON RAHM: Well, of course I'm proud.  I'm really proud of what I did.  I had all those great up-and-downs on the back nine.  It just feels bad that it ended that way, that's not a good way to win.  But obviously it was a great week.  I can't complain.  I'm a European Tour member.  And I'm thrilled I'm going to have a chance to maybe play in the Ryder Cup.
I'll be sad in a couple of minutes, it's understandable.  But after that I'll be really happy.  It's all good to come.
Q. I can feel your disappointment.  And the good thing, I thought you showed a lot of heart fighting back in this match.
JON RAHM: Thank you.  It wasn't an easy -- I don't know what happened, it's anytime I did something, if it could go wrong, it just went wrong.  Besides that break on No. 5, after that, besides that, the front nine was just a disaster.  Luckily for me DJ missed a couple of shots on 9 and 10.  I made a good par on 9, great up and down on 10.  And that got me going pretty good.  Too bad on 12.
On 13 I said, that's it.  No more complaining.  No more whining, let's just get it done and almost did.  Made a great birdie there on 15 and 16.  I tried to hang on as much as I could.  It's just golf.  It won't be the first or the last time.  And I'm sure some day I'll be back here maybe on top.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT