MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 8, 2017
Jon Rahm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Disappointed with the round? How do you feel about your round today?  
JON RAHM: Yeah, you said it. Quite disappointed, honestly. Started off playing great golf, I felt so good up until the 12th hole. And that shot on 12, it felt perfect. It just, we got a gust of wind we weren't expecting and that's just things that happen. The first two days we got ready for it.   
Today I played aggressive, because I was playing good, and ended up making a double.   
Then got it back on 13. Great birdie.   
Even on 15 I had a good number in, I just pulled my shot.   
And I think it was just being a rookie, first time in Augusta, that chip with the shadows just looked a lot slower than it really was. A little bit of a foolish mistake to miss long.   
And then from then on it was just a couple of bad swings in a row. And again, had I known how that green works, maybe I would have kept that ball on top. It's just things that you learn on the way, right? I've only played three practice rounds and that was not a putt that I was thinking I was going to have. Well, that's just golf. It happens.  
   
 Q. How was it playing with Freddie? There was a lot of age difference there.   
JON RAHM: Freddie is loved everywhere and especially here, he's like an idol, right? He's a great guy. I mean, he's such a great person, such a fun guy to play with, and we both had a lot of fun.  
Towards the end it got going down hill for both of us, we weren't going to win any awards, especially since I was in the woods the last two holes.   
But, obviously, a great guy. The support he gets is amazing. And I kind of try to feel like that that's some of my support as well and it kind of got me going.   
   
 Q. Do you feel like that's the kind round that you almost have to play here to learn about this course more?  
JON RAHM: I would rather not, but it's going to happen eventually, right, whether it's this year or next year, it's just going to happen. It's happened to me, it's happened to everybody. The way I like to think about it, Tiger played three Masters before he won in his fourth. A lot of other players, Phil played how many? 13 or 12 before he ended up winning.   
There's exceptions like Jordan Spieth, that he played one, he almost won it and then the next one he won. That happened.   
But I'm still T‑12, I think, six shots back. It's a long way back, but I'm going to try my hardest tomorrow. I feel like I've been playing great and good golf will follow.  
   
 Q. What did you hit at 17 on to the green?  
JON RAHM: It was a 9‑iron. It was a pretty hard 9‑iron.   
   
 Q. How about 12?  
JON RAHM: It was a pitching wedge. It's a great distance for a three quarter nine, had we known there was any wind, but we thought the smart shot was the pitching wedge and we got unlucky.   
   
 Q. Is this the first time you've felt like a rookie when you said you made those rookie mistakes?  
JON RAHM: Yeah, it truly has happened. This is the beauty of this place. It's a little different. I made a couple mistake, misjudging some putts.   
And in the last three days I missed a lot of birdie opportunities, a lot of them inside 10 feet. The people on top are not missing those.   
Those are just things that are going to happen. I know my ball striking has been great, hopefully I can keep it up tomorrow and just be confident with the putter. I have nothing to lose, so probably go a little bit more aggressive and see if it happens.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT