MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 7, 2017
Jon Rahm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JON RAHM: I'm close enough. I'm within 5. And I knew anything around even par today was going to be decent. A little disappointed in what happened at the last there. But these things happen. If I can get off to a fast start tomorrow, a couple under through 3, I'll be right there.   
   
 Q. When you hit it you thought it was good?  
JON RAHM: It was perfect. It was a good number. It was one of those ones where you had 10 or 11 yards off the pin, I could bring it back in. I hit a really good shot, just a bit unfortunate.   
   
 Q. You've made it clear in the past that playing in the wind isn't your favorite thing. For you to be where you're at right now with these conditions do you feel proud of yourself? Do you feel like you've proven anything to yourself?  
JON RAHM: I've won in blustery enough conditions before. It's not as if it is my favorite type of conditions. But I don't think it's anyone's favorite conditions.  
But, yeah, I battled away. I hung in. The middle part of the round yesterday was huge for me. That really kept me going. But it's‑‑ there's still 36 more holes to go. There's a long way to go in this golf tournament. I was just saying to the guys there I know what can happen, good and bad, around this golf course over the weekend.   
A couple of years ago I shot 10‑under par on the weekend, and Jordan was just too far ahead. And there's been other times where I've shot bad weekends and went the other way. Anything is possible out there. But I feel I'm playing well enough, and I'm in a good frame of mind where I can go out there and attack and make some birdies and try to get closer to the lead.   
   
 Q. (Inaudible.)  
JON RAHM: I think so. You've got a couple of guys that are in at 4‑under par right now. The wind is supposed to be basically nonexistent, five to ten miles an hour, which really isn't much around here. I would say a couple of rounds in the mid to high 60s you'd have to shoot to have a chance.   
   
 Q. Can you describe that shot, the approach you hit on 5? You didn't get the ruling, but that was some kind of shot.   
JON RAHM: Yeah, I wasn't really sure how it was going to come out of that. I never played out of that stuff before, whatever you call it, mulch or whatever they lay down here that smells really bad.   
But it went really good. I took a couple of practice swings, and I could get down to the ball where the grass was. So I felt like it was okay. But it came out really good. It came out with a nice little bit of spin, and that was a bonus to make three after that tee shot.   
   
 Q. I know you're happy with where you stand. Do you feel like you could have gotten anymore out of the first 36 holes?  
JON RAHM: Yeah, I think I could have gotten more out of the 18 today, at least, but I felt really good after my 18 holes yesterday. I felt like I could have shot a couple under out there today, two or three under par. But I missed a couple of short ones, and got a little bit unlucky at the last. Anything around even par after two days, I think everyone would be pretty happy with.  
   
 Q. You had a disappointing Saturday last year. Does that change anything mindset‑wise, either tonight or tomorrow when you come out here?  
JON RAHM: No, obviously last year in the finals it was conditions similar to this, more in defense mode rather than attack. That's a completely different mindset, trying not to make bogeys, instead of going out there to make birdies. I'll approach tomorrow with a complete different mindset.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT