WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 26, 2017
Jon Rahm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Jon, you came on strong in the end.  I would think of all the aspects of your game, you have to be proudest of your putting?  
JON RAHM: Yeah, towards the end, especially, I really made a couple of clutch putts.  I think all day both of us played great.  The front nine we went a little bit back and forth.  On the back nine we kept playing good.  We just weren't making the putts.  I made that on 13.  And then the one on 15 was just the one that put me in the perfect direction to play 16.   
 Q.  Now that you're through to the final match, is there anybody you would like to play in particular?  Is there any part of you that says I would like to play the No. 1 player?  
JON RAHM: Well, I want to play who is playing the best right now.  Honestly it would be great to play DJ.  Ever since Mexico I've been wanting that rematch to put into social media.  I think it would be a great match because of how great a player he is.   
Obviously Tanihara has made it this far, he's a great player, too.  Either or would be a great match.   
 Q.  As well as you've been playing, you have pretty well been the favorite in every one of your matches.  Is there any extra pressure when you go out against a favorite in a match?  
JON RAHM: I haven't thought about it.  As I've said before, I try not to think about those things.  Everybody who has made it this far or even making it to the top 16 is obviously a great competitor.  All of them, Charles, Soren, I knew it would take my best.   
 Q.  This was a tough match.  Bill Haas really went back and forth with you.  
JON RAHM: It was.  We both started playing great.  Obviously birdie putts on pretty much every hole.  He made the one on 3.  I had a pretty good 15-footer straight up the hill and he made that and then he made a great shot on 4.  He obviously played -- I'm pretty sure he wishes he made a couple more putts.  But it was a tough match.  I was lucky, I was really fortunate with that second shot on 15 and having a good distance here on 16, I was lucky.   
 Q.  I thought it was interesting he gave you a putt on 10, around four feet.  And then he made you putt on 11 and 12 from merely those same distances?  
JON RAHM: It's match play.  I did the same on a couple of matches.  And I told my caddie, you know what he's doing?  He's giving me those now, and when the big pressure comes he's not going to give them to me.  I knew it.  You've got to make those putts, I didn't read too much into it.   
 Q.  The approach shot on 15, you dodged a break -- you got a break there on 14 when his chip came up short.  You both made a bogey.  On 15, after he put it to ten feet, what was in your mindset with that approach shot?  
JON RAHM: Once he hit it close, it made everything clear.  I had to go for it.  The two sprinklers over there, about seven paces short, that was the only spot I could land to be close to the pin.  I was trying to do that.  And luckily it landed perfectly on the spot, and I ended up with a 10-footer straight up the hill.  It was a fortunate shot, but that's what I was trying to do.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT