WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 23, 2017
Jon Rahm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JON RAHM: Making really good shots, really good swings.  But this wind today was so unpredictable.  A little bit of wind direction change could be a big difference in yardage.  A couple of shots on 6, 7, 9, 13, where we hit good shots and we thought we were actually where we wanted to play them and we didn't get the outcome we hoped.  I guess that happened to everybody.   
 Q.  It was a really tight match.  Then 16, you pulled something out of the bag here.  
JON RAHM: Yeah, I mean, luckily I hit a great drive, got a good bounce forward.  It was a good distance.  We were doubting between hitting it short and hitting it to the green.  If we go long, we were okay.   
 Q.  We realized that you would play Sergio for the winner takes all and that's how it's worked out.  How exciting is that?  
JON RAHM: Very.  Obviously we both hoped this match would be later on in the tournament, obviously in the final.  Worse came to worse, we were both in the same group.  Out of that, at least we know whoever wins tomorrow will be on the next round.  At least it's good for Spanish golf.   
 Q.  It's good for Spanish golf and European golf.  You joined the European Tour, you are very keen to take part in 2018?  
JON RAHM: Yeah, I would love to.   
 Q.  Ryder Cup?  
JON RAHM: I want the Europeans to be remembered, but mainly just to be able to play the round.   
 Q.  Sergio potentially could be a partner when you get there?  
JON RAHM: Hopefully.  Maybe all three of us, me and Rafa and Sergio.   
 Q.  That would be a quarter of the team, wouldn't it?  
JON RAHM: Hopefully.  Just getting there would be enough.  Then if Rafa can get there as well, that would be a like a dream come true.   
 Q.  How many times have you played with Sergio?  
JON RAHM: Between five and ten times.  We played quite a bit together.  A little bit more with Rafa.  We played quite a bit together.   
 Q.  2 and 1 winner today.  After being up one at 14, how did you surge to clinch it with two birdies?  
JON RAHM: It really -- most of the job at 15 and 16 is going to be on the tee shot.  I was teeing off first and I knew it would put a lot of pressure, but the wind was so far down.  I hit a great one, put it down here.  The same with 16.  When the tees up, even if it was not the wind, being able to put it in front would be a huge part of it.  I didn't make birdie on 15, not today, but I gave myself a good chance.  16 is where it all came together.  I got a couple unexpected results on a couple of the swings.  I hit the prefect one when I needed it.   
 Q.  With the gusty conditions, what holes did you find to be the most challenging?  
JON RAHM: 17 was not easy.  Thank God I hit it okay on that hole.  It's hard.  No. 7 was playing really tough.  It was hard to hold the green.  9 was also playing hard, but the pin was easier.  You really can't tell which one was hardest because of the wind conditions.  Hole like 13 that could apparently be easy distance wise today were really challenging.  Myself, I made a bogey.  I heard of people going in the water from 60 yards.  To me, just because of how challenging the shot can be alone, it would be 17.   
 Q.  Tomorrow you face your fellow Spaniard Sergio Garcia for a chance to advance.  What is the top priority in that match for you?  
JON RAHM: Winning.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT