WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 22, 2017
Jon Rahm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Jon Rahm, a 3-2 winner over his good buddy, Kevin Chappell.  You both live in Scottsdale.  Train together, play on the same course, share some of the same teams.  What was it like going up against your good buddy, obviously helped?  
JON RAHM: I don't think it helps or hurts.  We have things in common and we know each other.  It helped just for me to know from what the trainer says how competitive we can be.  And I knew it was going to be a tough day.  And I needed my best golf to win.   
 Q.  In your first appearance in the Dell Technologies Match Play event, what was the biggest challenges you had to overcome in your first match?  
JON RAHM: Probably just the nerves -- not the nerves, just the ambition of teeing off right.  I feel as a Spaniard, I love match play, and we all do, and normally we're good at it.  So it's not that I was scared or anything.  I just really wanted to get going.  And I just had to stay patient.   
 Q.  Speaking of being a Spaniard, another Spaniard in your group, Sergio Garcia, as well as your friend Kevin Chappell.  How frustrating is it for you that only one Spaniard can advance out of your group?  
JON RAHM: You know, a lot of things could have gone wrong in that sense, and really did.  To have Sergio in the group, not only because he's a Spaniard, obviously but how good a player he is.  And I just found out, Rafa told me if he wins his group, and one of us wins our group, the first match will be again Spain.  Friday Sergio and I play against each other.  So possibly all three Spaniards are playing against each other in two rounds, which is not great for Spanish golf, in general, but obviously we're going to have a lot of fun with it.   
 Q.  Tell us about your first match ever in the World Match Play?  
JON RAHM: It was great.  What can I say?  Birdie, birdie finish to win, right?  To be honest, I had a lot of fun.  I played a lot of good golf, barely missed any shots.  I made a couple of mistakes, but this is match play, it's not going to be a perfect round.  And honestly it was a better beginning to my tournament than I could have expected.   
 Q.  Sometimes you have to play against friends but you have to do the business anyway.  
JON RAHM: Kevin is a friend of mine.  We share a group of trainers and professionals that work with us.  We share a couple of them.  It's not always easy.  But I think that's what made us want to beat each other even more.  And I think that makes the competition a lot more fun for the both of us.   
 Q.  Two matches to go?  
JON RAHM: Two more, and one is going to be real tough against Sergio, not that Shane Lowery is a bad player or anything, right?  But it's a little sad for Spanish golf that both of us have to play in the same group.  But we're going to have a blast.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT