WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 1, 2015
Jon Rahm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Talk about your experience.JON RAHM: Hitting four out of four fairways on 18 is amazing, but 16 is absolutely unbelievable.  Lifetime experience.Q. When you go back to some of your college teammates, how will you describe 16 to them?JON RAHM: I would say it's like being a gladiator.  Get in there and go through the door, see so many people, it's amazing.  It's an indescribable feeling.Q. How nerve-wracking is it with your nerves?  Do you get really nervous in that setting?JON RAHM: Well, the first day I don't think my heart has ever beaten that fast.  I honestly thought I was going to pass out right on the tee.  That's why I probably hit such a bad shot.  I learned to deal with it, and just decided to try to enjoy.  Once you enjoy something, even if you're nervous, you don't think about it.Q. What does this week mean to you, in general?JON RAHM: It means a lot.  It means that I proved to myself that I can be out here.  I can be here and compete with the best and, you know, try to be the best.Q. On that next hole when you had the tough shot at 16 on day one, the next hole you eagled 17, do you feel like that brought you more momentum going into the rest of weekend, that hole?JON RAHM: Oh, definitely.  That changed the entire week.  If that driver -- if I don't eagle that hole, I don't know how anything would have been.  But that definitely changed the momentum of the week.Q. What do you think of the crowd support, all the ASU fans?JON RAHM: Amazing.  I just have to thank all the ASU fans here.  All my friends came out to watch me play.  It was unbelievable.  It was just great to hear so many Sun Devils cheering me up.  Not only every Sun Devil, I have to thank the Thunderbirds and the Waste Management giving me the opportunity to play.  It was just unbelievable.  Thank you, thank you to all the Thunderbirds.Q. How did you stay so calm and cool all week?  You seemed to never let the hype and the pressure get to you.JON RAHM: That's probably what it looked like, but I was really nervous out there.  I have to say I was really nervous.  I mean, as I have said before, the first day on the back 9, when I started 10, I was really, really, really nervous.  What changed the dynamic of the week was I turned my mind and changed, instead of being nervous, just enjoy what you're doing, just go play golf, enjoy doing what you want to do.  So that mindset actually helped me a lot.Q. What's next for you?  Another tournament or going back to college to play for ASU?JON RAHM: Oh, I'm flying at 11:30 tomorrow to Hawaii to meet my team and play a college event there.Q. 9th hole you bogey and you got four birdies.  Talk about that.JON RAHM: Well, after 9, honestly I was kind of mad because I didn't play very good on the front 9.  I had a couple birdie opportunities that I didn't make.  I was feeling unconfident with the putter, and on 10 I said it's a new day, so really start over again.  But that putt on 10, that putt, making that putt just changed it.Q. Did you make some kind of an adjustment with your putting, or...JON RAHM: No, I just stopped thinking.  I was thinking a lot on my irons, they were really tense.  I could not focus and see the break right because I was really nervous at the beginning. But after that, once I changed my mind again, I just, you know, I just played golf, get in a routine, enjoy it, don't think about it.Q. What's this do for your confidence now going back to ASU?JON RAHM: It's a boost of confidence.  Being able to compete with those guys and beat a lot of them, it just shows me that I'm a lot better than I thought.Q. Does it change your timetable as an amateur turning pro, or still...JON RAHM: No, no, no.  My idea was to turn pro after college.  My mom and dad really made me realize that, and so far, unless something really special happens, I will turn pro after college.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT