PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 8, 2020
Jon Rahm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









JOHN DEVER:   Good afternoon.  Welcome back to the 2020 PGA Championship here at TPC Harding Park.
Third round 68 today, 2-under par, you are 3-under par for the championship.  Looking at your scorecard, it's pretty clean, one bogey but a really solid round and kind of got you in the mix here as you watch things unfold this afternoon.
JON RAHM:   Well, I feel like I need to unfold a little bit more with everybody.
You know, based on how the wind conditions are right now, it seems to be dying.  They might get a couple birdies and I was aware, you know, I knew I needed a good start.  3-under through seven, I was static and once that happens, it's like let's see if we can par 8 or 9 because if you make two pars there, you're losing a stroke on the field and see what you can do on the back nine.
I did a good job, just a three-putt on 10 just slowed the pace down a little bit, and just couldn't get it going on the back nine.  I had a lot of birdie chances, not the closest ones but a lot of birdie looks and not one of them dropped, and you know, it was tough to get anything going, right.  I played really good golf, really solid and I wish one of them would have gone in and maybe it would have been a different finish.
I was looking for that 4- or 5-under number.  It would be a pretty good spot to be coming into tomorrow, which hopefully that I don't make too many birdies, and I don't have to do something really, really spectacular to have a chance.  But yeah, really solid play, and much like yesterday, couldn't get those putts going to get a lower number.
JOHN DEVER:   Was there a point in your round where the wind did die down?  Seemed like it was breezier this afternoon.
JON RAHM:   No, we didn't get a break whatsoever.  It was just really windy out there, which just shows how good I drove the ball.  I mean, I put it in really good spots for the most part of the day, and the times I missed the fairway, I was able to get a lie in the few that I missed, except the one on 12.  The one on 12, I tried to nozzle a 5-wood out of there, hoping to move it a hundred yards.
I was able to take advantage of that and make -- even convert one to make a birdie.  But even towards the end, I mean, the wind was there.  The wind was there.  Just tough to predict exactly if it's helping, hurting.  The line is so fine and so small.  You know, we are always going to err towards the side of caution.
And is there was a couple shots in the last four or five, on 14, 15, 16 -- 14, 15 and 17, they were really good iron shots that just the wind didn't move them the way I thought they would and they ended up 20 to 25 feet pin-high every single one of them.  If I hit the shot I want or gust of wind I need, maybe I'm looking to make something closer to that.  It's what I need tomorrow, hopefully a couple more closer and a lot more putts to make.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT