THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 23, 2020
Jon Rahm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Strong start, 4-under through three holes and an eagle on the second today.  How would you assess how things went today?
 JON RAHM:   You know, it almost seems like it could seem like a disappointing round, right, 4-under through three.  With a bunch of par 5s to play, seems like we are going good.
 It's just golf.  I started really solid both days on the weekend and couldn't really take it deeper than most days, but I'm happy that I played a little better each day.  I felt a little bit more comfortable each day and today I was able to finish it up a little better than yesterday.
 The only thing I have in mind right now is the second shot on 18 is right at the flagstick that.  Shot was ten feet from being perfect, an eagle putt and I ended up with a little mud on the ball and a tough chip and ended up putting it.  Besides that, good round of golf.  It almost seems a little worse just because of how good Dustin is playing.  Right now I'm 12 shots back at 16-under, you would think I would be a little further down than top five, but it's another round of golf.  Like I said earlier in the week, hopefully getting better and better each week.
 Q. With Dustin at 28 under par and holes to play, you played the same golf course, do you see that out there?
 JON RAHM:   I see it just because of how I started the last few days and he just kept it going.  I haven't made a single birdie in 12, 13, 14, 15 and 16, 2- or 3-over par, or even more on those holes alone.
 So you know, had I been able to play those holes a little better like he's probably been doing, I could see the difference.  I think it was all good to how they played the second round.  We saw the 59 from Scottie, he's 6-under through four and still a lot of easy holes to play, and we know Dustin, any player who gets on a run can get it going but Dustin can get it as low as anybody and he's showing it right now.
 Q. Moving on to Chicago next week, how happy are you about your game as we go to Olympia Fields?
 JON RAHM:   It feels like two different worlds from how I felt that first day on Thursday.  Hopefully I can keep this going.  I hit the driver the last few days as good as I have in a while, really comfortable, the ball flight, and really solid off the tee overall but need to tidy up the iron game a little bit.  I think that's what let me down this week.
 Olympia Fields, I've played the golf course, I don't know what the setup will be like, but I know it can play like a U.S. Open, because they have played the U.S. Open and the U.S. Amateur there.  I know it can play really difficult but if they want to make it easier, it's a golf course somebody can shoot low, as well.  We're going to have to see how it's set up but I know it's the type of golf course I like and the type of golf course I can play good on.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT