THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 13, 2020
Jon Rahm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Do you think this was inevitable really?
JON RAHM: I think it was expected. I think a couple of us spoke with the TOUR, and I know my reaction and Rory's first reaction when we finished playing is, Can we just not find some tests, right? As long as we can test players, I guess we could keep on playing. But I didn't know the government couldn't just issue tests if you didn't have symptoms or if somebody hadn't already tested positive. So I think at that point, once I learned that, it was just waiting for the inevitable.
I really feel for the TOUR. It's a hard choice they had to make. But events worldwide, even my brother's junior soccer team can't play. If they can't play, there was no reason why we should be playing. And they play outdoors, as well.
It's unfortunate, but I guess all we can do now is try to be as safe as possible and hope it goes through quickly, and you know, get to play as soon as possible or just get through the virus as early as possible. Not if anybody gets contagious, but if a vaccine or medicine gets developed as quickly as possible. That's all I can tell you.
Q. The Masters is in four weeks' time. We're waiting to see what Augusta National has to say, but I assume you'd rather postpone that to later in the year rather than go into that event cold?
JON RAHM: You know, I think there's bigger problems in the world right now than whether we play the Masters or not. It's as simple as that. Hopefully it's just -- hopefully we play and we play with spectators. But again, yeah, you have air traffic being suspended to and from Europe and the U.S., families that can't see each other. Probably many players here right now that can't go back to Europe just simply because -- well, because of the norm and because they have nothing else to do but to stay here. I think there's bigger problem on our hands. People are getting affected, people are having problems. Like I've said many times, I'm pretty scared because there's quite a bit of people in my family with asthma, and my 85-year-old grandma being one of them, which is a direct target. And there's nothing I can do because I can't go home, I can't come back. I guess I'll just -- we can all try to do is resume our lives as normal, and again, try to be as clean as possible, wash our hands. I've been up since early in the morning, and I can't believe how many times I've washed my hands already and I haven't left my room. I'm just trying to be clean, I guess is all we can do and do our part as citizens to improve this.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT