THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
July 16, 2020
Jon Rahm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Jon, how would you assess your round out there in these difficult conditions?
 JON RAHM:   Really good.  When we started, the only mission me and Adam had was being 100 percent committed to whatever shot we played.  That was the only goal for the day.  Even if it was the wrong shot, be committed, because if you hit a good shot, you might get lucky and end up in a good spot.  That was the only mission, and once we got going, started making some good pars, hit a great up-and-down on 1, my short game started getting confidence, and I actually started hitting great shots and giving myself birdie chances.  I got to 3-under pretty quickly.  Well, it took a turn for the worse the last few holes and I was able to save a couple pars, and I was happy.  I would have signed 69 before teeing off any day of the week.
 Q. Have you seen conditions like that here before with the wind and how firm the golf course has gotten in the last four days?
 JON RAHM:   Well, this is only the second time I'm playing.  My first time was 2017.  I don't remember it being this windy or firm.  It's tough.  I mean, there are some holes out there that are really difficult.  That 16th green, I actually thought I hit a pretty good shot and couldn't stop it, so you have to hit an amazing shot to actually keep it on the green.  It's a test out there.  It's more how golf should be.  I'm glad for once we're not having a week where it becomes a putting contest and see who shoots 20-plus under par.  Hopefully it keeps being a test and hopefully I can keep playing good golf and make those clutch putts.
 Q. The mental adjustment from last week, obviously this course was playing more scorable, a lot easier, to this mental tough test, how hard of an adjustment was it?
 JON RAHM:   I liked it, honestly.  I think I've played in my fair share of bad weather days and windy and rain and everything, so it's something I enjoy.  And it helps me, right, because a lot of times I'm one of those who can get caught up in playing perfect golf, and when you have this type of weather, like I said, it helps me really focus and narrow on that one shot and that's it and focus in on what I want to do and what I have to do without second-guessing myself.  Luckily I was able to play really good today, and it wasn't too stressful for me out there up until the last few holes besides that.  I was able to play really, really good, especially off the tee, put it in the fairway, and if you're in the fairway it's going to be a lot easier.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT