THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 12, 2020
Jon Rahm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Was it kind of hard to get your head around playing today?  
JON RAHM: Oh, because of the --   
 Q.  Yeah.  
JON RAHM: Well, you know, I feel like I spent more time last time thinking about the day and the process up until I really had to. You hear all this news going on in other sports around the country, the country being shut down, soccer leagues around the world being shut down, I mean, it's a serious thing but I had faith in the PGA TOUR. I knew they were going to see what was going on and make decisions afterwards.   
They're not in an easy position. It's one of those few sports that are outdoors and all the data shows that there's less of a chance if you're outdoors, but I feel like a little bit came up to us players, maybe try to stay away from fist bumps, high fives, things that we usually do just because you never know who could have it and what could get it transmitted. So it's our part of a being citizen trying not to spread it. That's what I think all three of us in the group were trying to do.   
Besides that, it was a great atmosphere. Honestly we had a lot of fun out there. I think people were trying to take advantage that it the only day they were going to be able to watch golf live in maybe possibly a whole month. So it was a really fun atmosphere and especially down the stretch watching Rory finish with three straight birdies, Brooks playing good at the end, myself playing good, it was -- it was a lot fun, it was a great atmosphere. It's just too bad that there's that -- you know, the little bit of I don't know if it's concern on everybody or just worrisome of what's going on and what could happen.   
 Q.  What do you think it will be like tomorrow?  
JON RAHM: Adam had a good point; he said maybe they should give us push carts and just act like we're in college again. I thought that would be really funny. We all had a lot of jokes like, oh, with no spectators can we play in shorts? Kind of have music going in our bag. I don't know, there was a lot of things going on there. We made a laugh about it.   
But as different of an experience as it's going to be to be with no spectators, I think still the bottom line is the reason why this is happening, right, and I just hope, I'm trying, as soon as we got done we all got sanitizer on our hands, we're trying to wash our hands, Rory had it hanging on his bag. Hopefully everybody is doing everything they can to prevent from this spreading anymore, which I know it's hard to do, but we're trying, I guess. Anything about the round or --   
 Q.  Not today.  
JON RAHM: No? Okay. Good.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT