WGC MEXICO CHAMPIONSHIP
February 23, 2020
Jon Rahm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I thought you really gave it everything you had, another great start for you. The putts just didn't drop at the end.  
JON RAHM: Oh, man, I mean, it was going to be very easy to focus on the last few putts that weren't good. It is what it is. But to be honest, I was not good through 27 holes. The fact I had a chance and shot 19-under after that, it's pretty ridiculous.   
If anything, got to reflect on the first two days. I did give myself a chance, but my swing wasn't feeling the best three out of four days, and today it showed. I kind of pulled it together, but it was hard to catch with Bryson making all those birdies. I had a couple chances. If anything, had a chance, but got to focus more on I should have given myself a better chance after the first few holes.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible.)  
JON RAHM: I don't know. The little things I can take. Without my swing feeling the best, I would say it was a pretty bad 27 holes just to hope the tournament, shooting 19-under from then on. I know it's going to be really easy to focus on the missed putts or the mistakes on the back nine, but if I hadn't played the first few holes that bad, I would have definitely had a better chance.   
I needed something miraculous, and I never pulled it off because it was pretty close. If I drop a couple of those, maybe 14, 15, 16, 17 or 18, any of those, especially the early-on ones, I might give myself some momentum and put pressure on Bryson and Patrick.   
 Q.  I asked you earlier this week is the only measurement for success winning, you said no, you didn't want to live that way. But it's a great problem to have, but you've been playing so well. Are you itching to get a win now?  
JON RAHM: Listen, I've been scoring really well. I would say golf is not about hitting the golf ball. I could hit the golf ball a lot better than I have this year, I just play, and I try to get the most out of it. I fight until the end, and I'll fight every single shot, and that's what I do, and that's why I think I'm so consistent. I do care. Obviously I want to win, but I also do care about giving my 100 percent every time.   
If there was one day where I didn't give 100 percent, I wouldn't be able to live with myself. That's what I do. If I keep doing that, keep doing as much as I can every single shot and every single day, I would call it a success just because I truly did as much as I could, and maybe there's some things to work on to maybe play a little bit better or give myself better chances.   
But I keep putting myself in position, worked on some things in the off-season, so it's getting closer. It's getting closer. I need to hit some better shots the way I want to, and hopefully they start coming together towards the right time and the right time of the year.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT