DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 23, 2019
Jon Rahm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How good was that 66?
JON RAHM: It was really good. Got off to a great start on the front nine then kind of stalled a little bit but got things going right away on the back nine. Playing pretty solid. Really confident off the tee. Really confident with every part of my game right now. I'm hitting a lot of great shots and giving myself chances. Every time I hit one close, I'm confident I can make it. With the greens being as good as they are, maybe just get the ball started on line, you know, you're going to have a good chance. A lot of people playing good. Hopefully I can keep this going tomorrow for 18 more holes and be the last man standing.
Q. One of the highlights for us was the chip-in on 13, the par 3. Talk us through that awkward spot.
JON RAHM: It wasn't the easiest pin position from back there off the left. After seeing where it was, it seemed the smartest thing was to go right at the pin and take a 30-footer up the hill but at the time, it seemed possible to hit it close because you're not aware of how hard that is.
I know I could hit it, just try to trickle it on the green to leave myself a very short putt rather than take a 10-footer past the pin. Luckily I hit it right on line and went in, which is obviously a great little bonus.
Q. Potentially a couple of trophies on the line. You could become the second Spaniard following in Seve's footsteps to win The Race to Dubai and be Europe's No. 1. What would that mean to you?
JON RAHM: Gives me goosebumps to think about that. I've said it many times, as a Spanish player, as a Spaniard, any time you join or you have the chance to put your name on a list where there's only one name and that name is Seve, it's pretty impactful. It's really emotional for all of us.
To think in a not even Sergio or Miguel Ángel or Ollie or many other great players couldn't get it done. It's hard to believe that I have the chance to be the second.
But again, I'm just going to try to enjoy the afternoon. There's still 18 more holes to play.
Q. Second 66 of the week. How was that one?
JON RAHM: Very good. Started off great. One of those starts that you dream of, birdie, birdie, holing good putts. Felt really good all throughout. Just got a little bit of a cold streak right from then on, even though I birdied 7.
But this is a course where you can't really get impatient. There's going to be chances at some point, and I've been talking all week how 14 to 16, if you play properly, you can have a lot of birdie chances. Even though I complicated myself a little bit there on 15, I still finished 3-under par on the last six holes, which obviously is a dream finish. I've been doing that all week and hopefully I can do it tomorrow and combine it with a good start.
Q. Currently we don't know what Mike is finishing on, but you may be one behind, joint lead. What's the game plan going into tomorrow?
JON RAHM: Doesn't matter. Same thing. 18 holes to play and try to really be in the present and really focus on each shot, think of each shot as if it was the last and kind of play my game and not everybody else's game. I just focus on my own game and that's it.
I know there's a couple of guys close enough that are going to be teeing off in front of us and I'm sure they are going to get off to a hot start. Hopefully I can stick to my game plan and do what I've done the last few days and close it out.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT