DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 22, 2019
Jon Rahm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. With things not going to plan, how did you turn it around and shoot 3-under?
JON RAHM: It did not look good. The only reason why I wasn't in a better position was my putter, I felt odd all day. I missed quite a few short putts early on, first hole and 7, and then a little mishap on 8.
I was still feeling good. I knew I was hitting it good and I knew the course was going to be a little tougher on that stretch of 12, 13 on the back nine. I knew if I could make a few birdies, catch up to the lead.
But Adam and I agreed, we were walking down on 9 and just said, let's get to even par before 14. And 14 through 18, some birdie holes try to catch up. That was the mission. Made a great birdie on 9 and kept trying with a lot of good putts, a lot of good tries.
When I made that birdie on 14, I think it was, to get to even, I felt like mission accomplished. I relaxed on the last three holes and even though I had a little miss on 15, I still got to finish pretty strong.
Q. The last, setup for eagle, tell us about that.
JON RAHM: I was jealous of Rory yesterday so I tried to copy that.
No, I actually had quite some doubts. It was 236 metres to the pin, 245 to cover the water on the left side. The wind came in from the right. It had to be a perfect 5-wood to get all the way there. It missed, it could potentially go in the water, and for a 3-wood -- long right or long left is not a good spot to be on that hole. I decided to be brave on that one and hit as hard a 5-wood as I could hit and it came out, I could not have hit a better shot.
Q. Stats guys are telling us the scores has never played harder and it's averaging over 72 level par today. Did it feel that way to you out there?
JON RAHM: Yes. It got pretty windy, those first two holes, almost besides on the last few holes, besides Tom and Mike, I think everybody was over par. It was playing hard.
Like I said, I mean, that stretch on the back nine, but even starting on 6, the par 3s weren't easy. Most of the holes weren't easy. I kept putting myself in position on the fairway and that's why I had better chances, but if you didn't put it in the fairway, it's a difficult day out there. Very windy.
That's why I'm so proud of turning it around the way I did because things were not looking good. It's playing hard. Hopefully it keeps playing hard and Mike doesn't get too far away from us right now.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT