BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
September 20, 2019
Jon Rahm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Take us through your round today.
JON RAHM: Made two bogeys on the first two, but you know, it's not like I had major misses or it just felt bad. It happens on this course, 1 is a tough hole and 2 was short, basically one yard off on both tee shots. I didn't get too frustrated. I made two bogeys. It is what it is and then I started playing good.
I just capitalised on the putts that I had. I would say that birdie on 3 was very important, to get that one going before the par 5, knowing if I put it in the fairway I have a decent chance at a birdie.
Got the round going and later on felt confident off the tee and with the irons, and I gave myself so many looks, at some point, one of them is going to go in.
Q. Thoughts on the course?
JON RAHM: I think it's a great golf course. That's why I love coming back to Europe to play these traditional style golf courses, where they are not long, on paper, ideally, they are not overly complicated but things can get difficult for a player real quick. They make you think about it. You can be as aggressive or as conservative as you want off the tee and make it fun that way.
I've been having a lot of fun playing this golf course, and I think it shows. It's also a special place. I think we can all tell it's a special event, a lot of history.
Q. How tricky was that second shot to 18?
JON RAHM: It was more the club selection more than the wind. Ball above my feet and downhill lie, and you kind of have to hit a fade to that pin with the wind into from the left. So it was just more of a club selection. We went with 4-iron.
The only thing that made me think a little bit was I saw Rosey lay up. I was a little confused, one of the best iron players out there is laying up. I was like, oh, maybe I should, but I was feeling confident and it was a good club and went for it.
Q. Can you talk about the start of your round?
JON RAHM: Two bogeys to start with, but deceptive, I ended up in a bad spot on the left on 1 and on 2, one yard off from being in the perfect spot. So it was two shots that were actually okay but got on the wrong side and didn't get up-and-down. But I didn't lose patience or panic, because I know I have the whole round to go and I have the whole day to make it up.
The driver on 3, it was important to hit the fairway and have a chance at the birdie.
Q. How encouraging to get off to a fast start like this in two rounds?
JON RAHM: No matter how much time off I have or I don't, it's always great to get off to a start like this. Being out there after 36 holes, 36 to go, it's important to have a chance, especially on a course that I've never seen before and a tournament this important. It is the Rolex Series and it is the PGA here in Europe, it's the Flagship Event, so it's a tournament we all want to win. There's a lot of history here and a lot of legends on the walls, so it would be great to join that great list of players.
Q. You mentioned playing this golf course for the first time. What's the key to learning this golf course on the fly like you've done?
JON RAHM: It's one of those courses that's really hard to learn. There's a couple tee shots, like 4 and 18 you might need to learn the line. Myself, I hit it way right on 18, got a little bit lucky on that.
There's a few lines off the tee you need to learn. After that, it's right in front of you. That's the great thing about this golf course, it's not overly complicated. It's right in front of you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT