BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2019
Jon Rahm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Jon, I thought that was a beautiful ball-striking day for you.  You only missed three greens.  Was it a little frustrating coming home, could you have eked out a couple more birdies?
JON RAHM: Little frustrating, yeah.  I was playing good.  10 I made a bit of a miss of 10 but still had a birdie putt.  Another birdie putt on 11.  You know, they just stopped going in.
But it's not like I made long putts on the front-9.  I made a long one on 2.  All the rest pretty much close to the hole.  I wish I would have made a couple.
The only two shots today that I could say were not good was 13, I ended up in a really bad lie and did all I could do.  15, hit a great drive and chip and 3-footer.  I just misread it.  Simple as that.  I didn't see that much break towards the left.  I thought it was straight.
That's the one that's going to stay with me a little bit longer.  Good birdie finish.  If anything, it was more just leaving putts short.  That's the most frustrating thing in golf.  You see them tracking, it doesn't get there.
Q. I'm thinking of the 14th hole you had a nice look, had it dead in the heart at the par 5.  Was it tough to judge the speed of the greens, did they change at all with the little rain we had?
JON RAHM: I had it on early on.  I just believed towards the back-9 maybe later in the day more moisture or just a couple of the greens simply maybe me just a little bit more tentative on putts.  I don't know.  I left that one shot short on line.  Left the one on 7 short on line.  Left the one on 17 short on line.  All less than a foot of getting to the hole.  It is what it is.  It was a great day of golf.  6-under I'll take it.
Q. You drained it on 18.  That gives you a lot of momentum headed into the final round.
JON RAHM: Yeah.  It's a good feeling to just finish with a birdie.  Always put a smile on your face.
Q. Jon, nice round, 66.  If we can get some comments on your play.
JON RAHM: Felt a lot better today.  Good ball-striking, overall.  Started out so hot, making a couple pars in a row felt a little bit disappointing because I definitely had a couple good chances.
Still, you know, iron-wise the best ball-striking at least the best I felt with my irons in awhile.  That's a good thing towards tomorrow and next week.
Hopefully I can keep hitting them good off the tee and rolling the putts and I need a low one tomorrow and hopefully I get the low one tomorrow.
Q. The reason better scoring conditions, the rain?
JON RAHM: I didn't know before.  After the rain we barely had any wind for most of the day.  Those first 7, 8, 9 -- my 9th hole the wind kind of started picking up a bit.  The first 7 holes no wind whatsoever.  Couldn't have been any easier than that.  Afterwards it picked up a bit.  Probably the easiest out of the three days we played.
Q. Are you going to be watching the scoreboard tomorrow with your starting position next Thursday on your mind?
JON RAHM: No.  I'm going to be watching the scoreboard tomorrow with tomorrow in mind, trying to win a tournament.  I'm five back right now.  Hopefully JT doesn't get too far away.  Going to take a low one or bad weather with the low one combined.  It's a little far away but just focused on tomorrow.  I'll focus on next week when this week is over.
Q. Talk to yourself on the golf course, what language do you use?
JON RAHM: Honestly, I don't know.  My mind switches from English to Spanish quickly.  Sometimes I catch myself kind of in Spanish, sometimes in English.  It's just process is the same.
I can't tell you how many times I'm on the plane, and do security check in English, fine.  Then they go in Spanish.  My mind just repeated it again.
Doesn't resonate until I think about it that it's different language.  But I would say, for the most part, speaking in English.  I think in English but it goes back and forth.
Q. If he says 183 now you're looking at it, is it 183 or is it --
JON RAHM: Honestly, it's just 183.  I can't tell you what language it is.  Just numbers.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT