BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
September 19, 2019
Jon Rahm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  66, 6-under, four birdies over your last five holes. What really clicked coming down the stretch for you?  
JON RAHM: The 14th hole was a big hole. You know, after the birdie on 9, I hit some good shots. Just couldn't make the putts, and making that 25-footer on 14 was a big change. You know, I was starting to get a little frustrated, hitting good shots and nothing was happening, and I was walking Rosey and Patrick make every single putt. Making that one was a big change.   
At the same time, you still need to hit good shots. 15 is not an easy hole and none of the par 5s coming in are easy, right. I just stayed focused on what I was doing good and I was able to roll a few more in.   
 Q.  First time playing in this event. Does this feel like a golf course you can be aggressive on?  
JON RAHM: You need to pick your battles. You definitely need to be swinging good. Any little mistake you're going to pay for it. For example on No. 8, I got a little bit of a longer shot off the tee than I thought I would. I was barely off the fairway, and just that alone can make the hole a lot harder, especially on the second shot, and ended up with a bogey.   
It's a golf course that if you're in the fairway, you can attack and be aggressive and you can make some birdies. But again, if you don't put it in the fairway, you're fighting for a par. It's a tough one.   
 Q.  Must be very, very satisfying to take full advantage as you have done today.  
JON RAHM: It is, and more than the conditions, we saw lower scores early. Actually, there was two low scores. Everybody was at 4-under in the morning, and honestly, I didn't think about it much. I played a good front nine and I came out on the back nine, just wanting to just play good and stay shot by shot and made those three birdies in a row and didn't think about it too much. I know you still have to hit good shots. It's easy to look at the scorecard and see par 5, par 5 coming in, but those are two difficult par 5s to make birdies. I'm just happy I finished this strong.   
 Q.  Seems like you're keeping this kind of Rolex Series run going. You just seem to love these ones, don't you?  
JON RAHM: There's three more days.   
 Q.  Keeping it going at the moment so far?  
JON RAHM: Last Rolex Series I won, I barely made the cut and ended up winning, so there's many different ways to do it. Yeah, I enjoy them. I really don't know what it is, if it's coincidence or just the quality of people and players out here that make me want to play better. But at the same time, also the history of those events in a place like this, there's a lot of golf history, really fun to be around.   
I would say this is more coincidence than anything else.   
 Q.  But it does speak to you being very much at home on The European Tour, doesn't it?  
JON RAHM: Yeah, I am European. I do live in the States and live there, but it's where I grew up. I love these type of golf courses where I grew up in Spain. We have a lot of courses like this where you have tree-lined, not long, and you can be aggressive, you can be passive. It's just more where I grew up playing I'm comfortable on, and every time I come back, it's a good time.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT