THE 148TH OPEN
July 18, 2019
Jon Rahm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk about the round today.  I know the end was not what you wanted but still an excellent round.
JON RAHM: I feel like I played two rounds out there today.  Still a great score, my best score in an Open Championship.  Obviously a really good first 12 holes.  The only mistake was 11, it was still a decent shot, it wasn't that bad.  It just got tough at the end, honestly.
I feel really good off the tee.  I think some of the shots coming in, there was just a little bit of commitment issue, maybe just lack of commitment on some of the shots.  But besides that the day has been pretty good.  Good round.  And feeling good.  I mean it's a good start.  You can't win the tournament today but you can lose it and I'm in good position for tomorrow.
Q. How crazy were the weather conditions?
JON RAHM: Is this working?
Q. Yes.
JON RAHM: It's Open golf.  It happens so much out here.  Luckily it just rained for a couple of minutes at a time and then it goes away.  Because if it was more like a two- or three- or four-hole stretch, it's the kind of weather that can maybe make you lose your momentum and just not get the round going.
So luckily it was one or two shots that you have to hit in the rain.  That was it.  I was playing good through all that.  It was kind of funny to deal with it.  It's when everything cleared out when I started playing worse.  I don't know what that means, but hopefully I can keep playing good.
Q. How much of a test of patience was today?
JON RAHM: Not that much, honestly.  It's Major Championship golf.  It's hard to hit every single green every single day.  It's the first round.  I'm not used to playing until it's 8 p.m. on a golf course.  And with the weather we had to deal with early on.
Still, you know, with where I put the ball off the tee on the last four holes, especially on 15 and 17, I was looking towards a little bit more.  I'm not asking to make birdie, but just have maybe 20 feet for birdie or have a chance instead of stressing for a par or making a bogey.
I knew it was going to be tough towards the end.  There wasn't too many people making birdies on the last three holes.  I was trying to survive and to get to that part and try to finish strong.
But again, like I said, it's Major Championship golf.  I have to just focus on the next shot and try to finish on a good note.  I really didn't lose my patience at all out there.  I knew what I was doing, it's just I couldn't execute properly.
Q. Do you go out tomorrow with the same attitude that you started with today?
JON RAHM: Yeah, it's doable.  Obviously if the wind is forecasted to be the same, if we have the same wind, the front nine, you play most of the holes downwind, and that's what made it so easy.  The first shot into the wind is No. 6 with a big green over there and then 7 being a par 5.  Besides that you're playing pretty much everything, if not downwind, crosswind, which makes it a little bit easier.  That's why the back nine is so tough, especially the last three holes.
If the weather is the same, you know those first 15 holes can be scorable.  We've just got to play really good on the last three.  If you're able to sneak in a birdie on the last three, it's great.  If you can finish them even par for the week, it's a great score.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT