THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 11, 2019
Jon Rahm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How would you assess your round?  
JON RAHM: It's a little fresh right now to really think about it.  I'm still obviously a little hurt, a little disappointed the way I finished.  I was playing so good up until 14 and kind of the theme of the last three days, 15 through 18, I just haven't been able to finish it off.  It's as simple as that.  You know, I'm going to be two shots short.   
I mean, you can pick two shots any time in the tournament.  It's easy to focus only on today, but it's a couple things.  I mean, the driver on 15, where I thought it was good, and it just didn't fade back.  The driver on 17, it was like, two of them a foot from being a perfect location, right.  So that's two shots right there that could have given me a better chance.  It's just what it is.  It's golf.  I gave myself a great chance.  I had a lot of fun and towards the end, I just couldn't make the putts or I couldn't get it done.  It's how it is.   
Patrick held it together, even though he wasn't probably playing his best golf at first, and came back with a great birdie on 15, or 14, one of the two, and birdie on 16 to take a two-shot lead.  Well deserved, he's been playing great all tournament.   
He hasn't made many bogeys, not many mistakes.  That shows.  But if I'm thinking forward, great finish, putting myself I think in fifth in the FedExCup.  Hopefully I play good next week, give myself a better chance and have a good look at a good chance towards the FedExCup in East Lake in a couple weeks.   
Today is probably the best I hit with my irons and couldn't capitalize.  Couldn't get the pars done and maybe that's what I need to refine.  Every missed shot cannot cost me a bogey, and that's one thing to focus on.  I have some confidence and have had a pretty good run of golf so far.  A lot of Top-10s and top 5s but again I compete to win and it's frustrating to get myself in contention and not get it done.  Hopefully in two weeks I get it done.  If I had to choose, I pick two weeks from now.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT