THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 10, 2019
Jon Rahm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How would you assess your round?  
JON RAHM: Kind of thought my way around it a little bit today.  Just my iron game doesn't feel quite comfortable.  But you don't have to play perfect to win a golf tournament, so I was just trying to get the best out of what I was doing.   
I was really choosing my shots carefully and tried to stay patient.  I was able to get a lot of good looks at it and a lot of putts that I thought were good putts, and looked like they were good and they were just leaving on the last foot, two feet of the putt, which is a good thing.  I'm rolling it good.  I'm hitting good putts.  It's just sometimes a little bit of luck or miss-read.   
Optimistic towards tomorrow.  Hopefully I can keep thinking my way around it, feel more comfortable and hope the putts roll in early on and give myself a chance.   
 Q.  How much did the course change over the course of your round?  
JON RAHM: I would say a lot compared to yesterday.  You could see balls release more.  It wasn't as fly it at the pin and know it's going to stop every single time, especially when you were chipping.  Pretty much the first two rounds, there was no such thing as being short-sided because you hit it high and stop by the hole.  Today you did need better contact and position with the chipping.   
The fairways, as well.  Perfect example for me was No. 3.  I didn't think that that bunker was reachable with the wind that was 30 miles an hour straight in my face, especially because none of the balls are released any of the days with the driver.  I hit one really low and completely released into the bunker and had no chance to reach that green.  An example of how quickly it changed, a little bit firmer, a little bit drier and more difficult to think about.   
Especially with the greens, when you get this wind and the greens are in such good condition, the ball gets affected quite a bit by the wind, so it can get a little tricky.   
 Q.  Good ball-striking is always important, but this course especially, does it bring out good ball-strikers to the top of the leaderboard?  
JON RAHM: I would say so, yeah.  The pins are tucked in little places.  I know the rough is not very high, but it's unpredictable.  We get flyers, knuckleballs and sometimes they don't come out.  So if you are not in the fairway, it's tough.  But if you hit it in the fairway which is a hard task enough, you have to hit into a small portion of the green to have a chance.  If you go pin by pin:  No. 1 you can roll it towards the pin.  2 is a little corner.  3, I'm not going to talk about 3 because that pin is almost impossible.  5, 6, 7, really hard to hit it close.  Those are not easy pins, and on the back nine it only gets worse.  No.   
10 was a heck of a hole.  I saw Patrick hit it close, make the ball release, something that would have been completely impossible yesterday to do.  You need to be a good ball-striker and you need to have a good putting week, but it's hard to be up there if you're not hitting the ball well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT