DUBAI DUTY FREE IRISH OPEN
July 6, 2019
Jon Rahm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








https:
Q. A 64 today.  You must be delighted.
JON RAHM: I am, yeah.  It was something that I needed today.  Obviously the weather's getting a little bit easier right now.  I knew I needed to get close to maybe have a chance tomorrow.  Man, it was definitely at first.  The rain was coming in hard.  It was hard to get into a rhythm.  Made a couple of good pars and then that 6, 7 stretch.  On 6, I missed a really short putt for birdie and I missed a short putt again for par and that's kind of what I said, okay, that's enough of that.  I kind of switched it and decided to attack and saw people were doing great scores so I knew it was doable.
Birdied 8.  Great par putt on 10 and I gained confidence with the putter, which was the one thing that was missing this week.  I wasn't making short putts for pars to keep the round going.  Good birdie on 6.  Great save on 17 and that bonus on 18, making an eagle, a great second shot to give myself a chance.
The main difference today to the last few days was putting.  I was able to make a few more putts today and more than making the birdie putts, I was able to make the par putts to keep the score going.
Q. You must feel you're right in contention for a second win in three years.
JON RAHM: It seems very similar to what happened last year.  Last year I had a really bad first round and then I played good on Friday to make the cut and shot 12-under on the weekend to almost make it to a playoff.  It seems very similar.  A good Saturday, hopefully a good round tomorrow to give myself a chance.  Robert Rock is already at 10-under.  I see 10-under being at least what the leader is going to be.
Q. Happy hunting grounds at The Irish Open.  You won two years ago and fourth last year.  What is it about The Irish Open and links golf that gets you going?
JON RAHM: I just enjoy it.  So far the courses we have played here in Ireland have been really beautiful, courses I really enjoy and courses where I've been able to attack.  I've been hitting it really good off the tee and I've been able to attack every time I come.
I love the people of Ireland.  I love the people of the event.  They have treated me really well.  The support has been unbelievable.  Even the back nine, I started making a few more birdies and getting more people and they were getting very, very excited about it, treating me almost like I was in Spain.  It's a great atmosphere.
I'm happy every time I come.  Kelley, my fiancée is part-Irish.  Cahill is an Irish last name from this county, actually.  Her mom's last name is McLean, so a lot of Irish.  This week I guess I get part of the Irish luck.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT