PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 16, 2019
Jon Rahm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How was it out there today?
JON RAHM: Difficult.  Very difficult.  I started playing really, really well.  Made really good swings on 1 through 7.  Actually, no, through 9.  I just make really good swings.  Made a couple mistakes on the greens, a couple three-putts.  But playing good.  And then I don't know what happened on 10 through 14.  Kind of lost it.  Got a little bit uncomfortable at the tee.  I couldn't figure it out.  And survived that a little bit and then finished strong, kind of got it back on 15 and made a couple good swings to give myself chances at the end.
Good round overall.  I'll take even par with the changing on the par at the last hole.  It's a difficult golf course, and not having by best stuff, it was a good day.
Q. So looking forward to tomorrow?
JON RAHM: Yeah.  Yeah.  So looking forward for tomorrow, hopefully it's not too cold in the morning, hopefully we don't have any wind, like we didn't have this morning, and we can start good and get a good round going.
Q. About the Ryder Cup, European guys talk a lot about unity.  Are you still feeling the unity?
JON RAHM: Yeah.  Yeah, I don't know -- it's my first one, so I can't really explain it.  I don't know how or what happens in the European locker room, but as soon as we get there, like I say, we're a family.  We're a unit.  We're one.
It comes easy to us, I guess.  It's a really good week.  You get, you know, really good relationships all week, you make a lot of friends.  It's something about friends, because it's that special.  So it's hard to explain the reason why, it's hard to explain the reason how.  I can't really.  It just happens.  It's just natural, and it's a beautiful thing.
Q. I'm from Denmark, so I have to ask how was Thomas Bjørn as a captain?
JON RAHM: Oh, he was very good.  Honestly, I have no other reference, but from team captains that I've had in the past in other sport and in other amateur events, he was really good.  He was very good at talking to me, he was very good at understanding my situation, and he was very good at getting me and in the right mindset towards Sunday.  So he was a great guy, and I hope all the captains that I have are as good as good as he was.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT