U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 13, 2019
Jon Rahm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JON RAHM: Yeah, this golf course, I think it's about as good as a U.S. Open setup as I've seen for a first round.  Wind didn't blow, so it made it reasonable for us to be able to shoot the score and to get after the start and keep it going and play good.   
It was a good day.  Just too bad I couldn't make a couple of the putts on the my back nine that I had.  Little more lip-out than I wanted to see, but that's poa annua greens for you.  It just happens, and I'm I ham happy with the start.  I would have taken around even par.   
 Q.  Rory was saying yesterday how important it is to get off to a good start, not to have to come back.  So is that what you were able to do today?  
JON RAHM: Yeah.  Well, I mean, it's -- my ball-striking hadn't been great my last few events, and I felt good coming into the week.  And to start the way I did, you know, good drive, good shot into 10 and then make a 30-footer to start the day, it's a good confidence booster.  Because then on those holes coming up, if you're able to hit the fairway, you have short irons coming in.  The next long iron to a hole is not really until 17 or 12, which is par-3.   
So you can give yourself chances, and that's what I did and, man, it feels good to start the way it did.  I was in the (indiscernible) pretty good after 18, and after the second shot on 1, I thought I could shoot a number today.   
But, again, Pebble, it's the U.S. Open.  Difficult to shoot low, and I'm just happy to start with anything under par.   
 Q.  Is there any sense of trying to make it past today and tomorrow, knowing that once we get to the weekend, you might be encountering a totally different golf course?  
JON RAHM: It's the sense of making the best of every day we play, really.  It's -- but, yeah, to your point, yeah.  We do play in the morning with a little bit better greens.  The temperature is not changing that much.  Not like in the afternoon, hitting it 20 yards father than we were this morning.   
So, you know, hopefully it doesn't get too, too low going out there, but if I can shoot something around the same tomorrow, I won't be too far away.  Going into the weekend, we know what's going to happen with the U.S. Open.  Pins are going to get tricky, greens are going to get firm, and it's going to be difficult.   
I think it was '92 when Tom Kite won that somebody after 36 was 9- or 10-under, and like 3 or 4 was the winning score.  So, you know, it all depends on -- a little bit on the setup and a lot of it how windy it gets during the rest of the week.   
 Q.  How we receptive were the greens?  
JON RAHM: They were receptive.  It was only a couple greens that we got a pretty big bounce without really expecting it, like No. 4.  Saw a couple of them skip pretty good in there.   
They were doable.  Anytime you had more than a 7-iron, you were kind of expecting the ball to bounce a little bit.  But with the short irons it was very doable.  It was great.  Made it fun.  The scores are not crazy low, so it shows that the golf course is still a test even though we're not having any wind and the greens aren't as firm as they could be.  So it's been fun.  Hopefully can be as good as today the next few days.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT