MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2019
Jon Rahm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. (No Microphone.)
JON RAHM: If you told me earlier it was my fourth straight round in the 60s, I would think that was an amazing feat. And I'm really confident out there. I didn't have my best, I was a little shaky with the driver, I was able to keep it in the fairway for the better part today. My iron play also didn't feel the best, but again I was able to manage it and hit some quality shots out there. 
But I think that the most important thing is I never lost patience. I was 1‑over par on the par‑5s going to the back nine where it's easy to get a little frustrated and I didn't. I kept my cool and I was able to make a great birdie on 9 and get where I'm going. 
It's tough out there, it's not easy, they made a few changes to the golf course, they put some tough pins early in the day already, the greens started getting progressively firmer, so just being able to make a couple good putts and shoot under par is a good round.

Q. (No Microphone.)
JON RAHM: It's a challenge for me. 

Q. How big is patience around here though at Augusta where things can get away from you very quickly?
JON RAHM: You know, I always make it‑‑ when I say that, I mean on the par‑5s. Like I said, it's so easy to think, oh, it's a par‑5, I need to birdie it. When, in reality, they're hard. I mean, I hit two great shots in 2, I was in the right bunkers not the best lie, with a really hard up‑and‑down, I hit a good shot and I made ‑‑ I mean, I really hit like four good shots in a row and I made par. That's just how it is. That's just how Augusta National works, it's very, very difficult. 
Today on 15 I was the only one who made the fairway and I was the only one to have a decent birdie putt in my group. Actually, I was the only one to have a birdie putt in my group. 
So it's just how it is. It's very difficult and just knowing that some difficult situations are going to happen, but at the same time you're going to be able to use the contours to your advantage and be able to make some birdies, just know that at end of the day it's going to be like that all day.

Q. Can you use the way you played last year here, how well you played here, going forward here, does that give you good memories as you go around the course?
JON RAHM: I have a lot of good memories around here. I think the only rough round I had was the half, actually the back nine of 2017, my last day, so my body was just worn out. 
So it feeds into the player that I like to be, that creativity, that special thing that Augusta National has that brings the best out. I mean, just being here and hitting some of the shots we're hitting and being able to hit the putts, the crazy putts where your back is looking at the hole and things like that is just a lot of fun. 
So when you can get it done and get a few good up‑and‑downs to save a round, it's definitely a lot of fun.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT