WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
January 31, 2019
Jon Rahm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 4-under to start your round here this week.  What went well, what didn't go well?
JON RAHM: I think everything went well, every aspect of the game.  I drove it good, besides number 3.  Iron play was good.  I think there was just a couple lipouts, a couple putts missed, but they were very, very close.  I know there's people shooting low out there but I was just looking for a round in the 60s.  4-under is a great round and three more days to play and hopefully it gets better.
Q. Does this atmosphere ever get old for you?
JON RAHM: No, no, not at all.  You really look forward to the last few holes.  And I had nothing going on and that birdie on 14 and the crowd getting a little bit more cheering, a little louder, definitely helped because I played the last few holes very, very good and had a birdie chance on all of them.  So definitely, it definitely, the atmosphere does help out sometimes.
Q. Now that you have had a few rounds under your belt do you attack this course differently, do you have a different eye for it?
JON RAHM: No, I think that I've never changed.  I think I hit driver as soon as every time I can and be aggressive.  It looks difficult, fairways are narrow, if you hit it in the rough you don't have a chance.  But the scores are always low, the greens are so good that you need to go for it, you need to go for the birdies.  The more you play, you end up knowing what places you can miss and what places you can't miss and when to be aggressive and when to not be aggressive, but that's like everybody with experience.
Q. What's your excitement just for the year in general with how you ended 2018 and the way you've been playing.
JON RAHM: Well 2018, it's already forgotten, really, it's in the past.  Winning that last event is always great to finish actually Top-4 and then win.  But my next tournament was in Hawaii a month afterwards after Christmas after three weeks of not practicing.  So really it really doesn't shape up anything for the year.  The thing is I always start the year very hopeful.  The West Coast Swing is something that I love playing and I've always played good and I keep playing good, so hopefully it just, it sets up the tone for the rest of the year.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT