WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 27, 2019
Jon Rahm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You played some solid golf.  7 and 5, your thoughts on how it went?  
JON RAHM: I mean you said, it.  I played really solid.  There's not many shots out there that I can say I missed really at all.  Really well across the board.  No bogeys out here.  4-under if you count, in 13 holes, that's a good score at the end of the day.  If I had to say looking back, very important stretch is 6, 7 and 8.  Making the birdie putt on 6 tied the hole.  Almost made a long one on 7, missing the short one to win, and then making that other good save from another 12 feet and not lose the hole, to keep that 2-up lead on that hole was extremely important.  And started missing a couple of shots.  I stayed in play.  And made a birdie when it really counted on 10.  And I knew it was going to be a challenge.   
 Q.  When you have a big lead like that, does that change your approach to these holes at all?  Do you play it a little safer?  
JON RAHM: No, that's usually when mistakes happen.  I really stayed in knowing what shot I had to hit and staying patient.  It's easy to get complacent.  I was playing aggressive.  On 11, I actually stiffed it.  On 12 I was still trying to get back to the pin there.  You know, I tried to keep thinking to increase the lead and not be complacent.  If you miss a shot and give him a free fall, he might get a second wind and make you struggle for a little bit.   
 Q.  Could you assess your round.  
JON RAHM: What to say?  Hit it really good off the tee.  God, I hit a really, really good drivers out there, always set myself up in position.  As soon as I started teeing off on the first on 1, I put the pressure on every single hole, hit it tight on almost every hole.  I did what I had to do and Si Woo didn't have his best day.   
When it comes to me, I think the key today was 6, 7 and 8, making that putt to tie the hole on 6, the birdie putt, almost making the one on 7, and him missing the short one and making another good save on 8.  Not losing any holes there was very important.   
And then I played really, really good golf on 9, was almost basically one with the tee shot.  I put it way down there, he hit it left, it was pretty much over.  And I just kept applying pressure.  Stay within myself and stayed aggressive.  Again, Si Woo didn't have his best day.  A couple of errant drives cost him a little bit.  And him playing bad, me playing good showed the score.   
 Q.  (Inaudible).  
JON RAHM: I am such a competitive person that golf is such a relative sport in the sense that usually you play against yourself or you against everybody.  Match play you know who you're playing against.  You know who your target is.  It's a little bit easier.  It's almost like a fight.  And you've got to know what role to assume.  Since I was teeing off first on 1, like I said, my role is to put it in the fairway on this course every single time.  And I hit it so good off the tee.  I was hitting it so far.  The drives I hit were so solid that Si Woo was behind me and needs to match that every single time.  And if I'm ahead of him, I'm in the fairway.  Every time he misses a shot, he gets a little stressed and I was able to pull it off.  Who knows if I'm going to play as good the next two days and the people I'm going to play against are going to have a bad day, as well.  There are going to be a few tests out there.  Hopefully just keep doing the same thing, keep playing good, and hopefully give myself chances to finish matches early.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT