NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIP
March 19, 2016
Alex Dieringer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We're joined by 165-pound champion Alex Dieringer.  Alex, comment briefly on your match and also about being a three-time champion.
ALEX DIERINGER: There's a lot of emotions there.  I was kind of a little conservative, but in the situation I was in it was hard to get overaggressive.  But I know I was very pleased, 18 matches in a row with a third national title in the most historic arena in the world.  So it's a pretty amazing feeling.
Q. John Smith said yesterday, I don't even think he realized he did it, he was calling you a three-time national champ in the press conference.  And then he said he's going to be one of our five greatest wrestlers of all time.  That's pretty high praise.  What's that mean to you?
ALEX DIERINGER: I didn't hear that until about a week before nationals.  When I heard that, I got a really good feeling in my stomach.  I knew I had to win this time in order to be top five.  But I'm always pretty confident and I was really excited for the journey.  So it's a pretty amazing feat what I just did.  So I'm just going to try to enjoy the moment.
Q. I've watched the Daniel Lewis match at Gallagher-Iba Arena where you won 4-3, got ridden out two periods.  Was there a sense of complacency at all this season that it's just going through the motions?  Was it hard getting motivated?
ALEX DIERINGER: I wouldn't say motivated.  I would say staying focused.  Staying focused for a whole season is pretty hard.  Obviously you're going to have those kind of matches.  And unfortunately I did, kind of froze up in the second and third period.  He had a good ride.  But in the semis, I was ready for it.  I went back to the room and worked on it.  That's what champions do.  They go back and figure stuff out and get better at it.
Q. I'm assuming you're going to go to Iowa City, in our conversations.  Do you take a break?  Or are you going to start working on some of your ankle laces and some of your freestyle techniques pretty quick?  We're only a few weeks away.
ALEX DIERINGER: Yeah, I'll be taking two or three days.  Not much more than that.  Two weeks, I'll still be in good shape.  But two weeks to train freestyle, that's my favorite style.  That's my best style.  It's all on your feet pretty much.  That's what I'm good at.  That's my best thing.  So obviously gotta watch out for those rolls and stuff.  So that's just keeping your head, don't getting your head down and give your hips away, and that's not too hard to figure out.  I have a little over two weeks to figure everything out, get ready for Burroughs and the rest of the guys in the field.
Q. A lot of Oklahoma State wrestlers after their college career has been over either going to wrestling, continue in wrestling one form or another or go into other sports like M&A.  Have you thought about that at this point beyond the Olympic Trials?
ALEX DIERINGER: Yeah, I'll be a wrestler for life.  I'm going to give back to the sport that gave me so much.  I'll be wrestling until my body can't take it anymore.  I'm going to get into coaching, help wrestlers out and help them reach their goals.
Q. You're from Wisconsin, you wrestled an opponent that wrestles from the University of Wisconsin were you aware of Jim Jordan and the connection and him being a two-time champ from the University of Wisconsin?
ALEX DIERINGER: Yeah, I was aware of it.  They have a really good wrestling family.  They're really well known.  And I was excited for the opportunity.  I almost went to Wisconsin, that was my second pick.  And it felt pretty good to beat him.
Q. Were you aware that Jim Jordan had beaten John in the NCAA finals back in '85?
ALEX DIERINGER: Yeah, I am, actually.  I saw something on that, read it online somewhere.  I've actually watched the match before.  I got to see it.  Yeah, I was aware of it.  And I was just excited for the match.
Q. In order to continue winning, how much better did you have to get from the first year to the second year and from the second year to the third year?  Some people, they know the target's on their back and I thought you handled it very well.  How did you do that?
ALEX DIERINGER: Just handled my composure.  You've got to be relaxed.  If you think about it too much, get to your head, very, very hard sport.  Very mental.  And if you let it beat you it will beat you down.  But I've always gotten progressively better.  That's the nice thing about -- I think I really developed a lot of mental toughness over the years, just being around Coach Smith.  He's all about being tough.  And I think I got a lot of that from him.
THE MODERATOR: Okay.  Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT