NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIP
March 18, 2016
Alex Dieringer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Have you talk about your match first, especially since some of these people know that you had a tight match with Lewis in the dual match.  What made the difference tonight?   
ALEX DIERINGER: Just keep my feet, you know, and obviously working on the bottom, got a reversal off it, that was huge, improving on the bottom, too, improving every aspect of my game.  Just like I said, being on my feet because they can only take it so much.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions?   
 Q.  You I talked after your quarter final win, do you feel like the game plan you told me I'm going to win on my feet and you won off the bottom, do you think you executed it?  
ALEX DIERINGER: Yeah, I got a major decision, pretty good because I only beat him 4-3 last time.  Obviously I wanted some pins, but bonus points for the team is big.  So pretty pleased with it.   
 Q.  Alex, what is the pressure of this night get to you?  Everybody talks about you're ready to make history.  Being compared to the all-time best.  Why is it you don't feel like there is any pressure at all?  
ALEX DIERINGER: I stayed calm.  If I have a bad thought, I replace it with a good one and it usually works pretty well.  I get those -- I get that feeling, that bad feeling sometimes, but I just -- like I said, I replace it with a good thought and it works really well for me.  And I try to stay composed and calm out there.   
 Q.  You've earned the right now you have to your last college match for a gold medal, the third one.  Do you ever think about that, tomorrow is the last chance you have in this arena, in this level of wrestling to leave a mark on who you are and what you have done in college?  
ALEX DIERINGER: Yeah, like I said, I just try to stay calm.  I don't want to think about it too much, you know.  I don't want to get sad about it even though it's going to be a sad day after tomorrow night.  I'm just going to try to stay calm and focus on my match.   
 Q.  You have history with Isaac Jordan tomorrow, you beat Bo last year in the semifinals, what is your history?  Have you wrestled him?  You're from Wisconsin.  He's from Ohio, wrestling for Wisconsin, any special incentive there and what's your history?  
ALEX DIERINGER: I wrestled him one time in free style, my first junior world team trials I wrestled him, second round, I beat him handily.  But it's been four years, so we've both been training and he's a good wrestler, and I'm just going to go out there and do what I do.   
 Q.  You talked about you did have a bad feeling the whole time.  What was the reason you would have had a bad feeling that forced you to get happy again?  
ALEX DIERINGER: Everyone gets those bad thoughts in their head before a match whether you think he's good ar riding, you might get nervous about that, just little things like that that you think about your match.  But I'm good at channeling that out and replacing it with good thoughts.   
THE MODERATOR: Congratulations, Alex.  Good luck tomorrow night.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT