NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIP
March 21, 2015
Alex Dieringer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We now welcome Alex Dieringer of Oklahoma State.   Alex, an opening statement.
ALEX DIERINGER:   I felt good.   I got a really good warm‑up in before.   I knew he's a funky wrestler so I stayed out of those bad positions.   I wrestled smart.   Hitting moves I don't usually hit.   I really don't hit doubles very often.   I think I hit four of them.   So I stuck to my game plan pretty well, attack.   I poked myself in the eye and I couldn't really see for a while. 
But I feel like I wrestled pretty good.
THE MODERATOR:   Questions.

Q.   How much did you feel that this match was like your national championship match last year with Ness?   Ness was a funky wrestler.   The score was about the same last year.   This year you got poked in the eye.   How much did you feel it was a duplicate? 
ALEX DIERINGER:   They wrestled similar.   I felt that funky style from both of them.   I'm pretty good at feeling things out if they have a feel for something I'm pretty good about getting out of those positions.   So I feel like I wrestled pretty hard and handled it pretty good.

Q.   You looked very confident and relaxed and loose when you're wrestling.   And that's pretty hard for somebody at this level to go out in the Finals and just wrestle.   I mean, is that the kind of way you approach it, as long as you're wrestling and not getting caught up in things, that you're able to get yourself going well?
ALEX DIERINGER:   I just see it as another match.   I always try to have the same game plan.   Sometimes I wrestle conservative, but for the most part on the attack a lot.   I usually stick to my game plan.   If I do that I just wrestle about the same that I always do.

Q.   It's kind of a cliche question but after winning the second title, what's going through your head differently than it is last year, whether it was before the match or at this very moment?
ALEX DIERINGER:   Coach always told me the second one's harder.   So I feel like this one feels a lot more special to me.   Just coming back and going undefeated and pretty much getting 90percent bonus matches.
And moving up, too, which made it a lot harder.   So I feel like I did pretty good this season.

Q.   Talk about moving up.   You went 157‑165.   What was the difference this year versus last year being in a different weight class?
ALEX DIERINGER:   I was cutting so much weight at 157.   I feel like moving up it kind of evened out my strength because I was bigger at 57.   But at the same time I'm not cutting as much weight at 65.   So it kind of evened out my strength difference.   I feel I got more bonus points at 65 than at 57 both years.   So I feel like I made a good adjustment.

Q.   Not only did you get your second national title tonight but that was also the hundredth career win.   How did that feel to get that as a bonus as well?
ALEX DIERINGER:   It's pretty special to me.   It's a great feeling, knowing I got 100 wins and it's only my junior season and on top of that get a national title.   Feels good.

Q.   Two years ago you went away for the summer, got a world medal for the United States, silver medal.   Last year you took spring and summer off a little bit.   What's your plans for this spring?   Are you looking to go senior stuff or‑‑
ALEX DIERINGER:   Definitely I want to wrestle those top guys.   I feel like I'm ready.   And I'm going to be‑‑ I don't know if I'm going to the open but for sure I'm going to trials.

Q.   (Question off microphone.) 
ALEX DIERINGER:   I'm real excited to wrestle those guys.   I haven't had a chance to wrestle them yet.

Q.   Now that you have 100, next year you probably have the chance to surpass your head coach in all‑time wins at Oklahoma State.   How does that feel?
ALEX DIERINGER:   Actually he has 152, I think.   I probably would be top four all‑time if I win out the rest of my career.
But, I'm still being top four in the best wrestling school in history is pretty special to me.   So I'm excited.

Q.   You said you have a chance to win a third national title next year.   Getting the top three all‑time wins at Oklahoma State, a great program.   Where would you say you rank if you accomplish all those in the program as a wrestler?
ALEX DIERINGER:   I think I'd be known as one of the greatest ones.   But there's been a lot of greats come out of there.   It's not for me to judge.   It's for other people to judge.
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, Alex. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT