NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIP
March 20, 2015
Alex Dieringer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   We welcome Alex Dieringer of Oklahoma State.   First off, Alex, talk about tonight's match.   
ALEX DIERINGER:   I wrestled decent.   I was conservative.   I respect his top game too much.   But he's a good competitor and made it to the finals, so I can't be mad about it.  
   
 Q.   If you win how does it feel that you could be a possible three timer?   
ALEX DIERINGER:   Looking at that, but I don't want to look ahead of this match.   I'm going to take it one match at a time like most people say.   I'm going to go out and do what I do.   I should come out on top if I stick to my game plan.  
   
 Q.   How much do you know about Walsh?   He has a totally different style?   He's also a guy like you who jumped up a weight.   Talk about you and him doing that, and what's been the experience for you?   You seem to make it look easier even though it is a heavier weight.   
ALEX DIERINGER:   Yeah, I mean, I never wrestled him before, but obviously he's a good competitor.   He made it to the finals.   Last year he didn't even make it to 157.   So to move up and make it to the finals is pretty special.   
But I'm a strength wrestler, so it probably made it easier for me to adjust to him because he's funky and catches people on their backs.   I'm going to use my strength against him, and I'm going to be nice and hydrated and juiced up, so I'm excited.  
   
 Q.   We've got the TV over here.   One of your teammates is out on the mat.   Obviously you guys must work out a lot.   Did you help him and does he help you?   He came in here as a 12 seed, and he's got a chance to possibly make the final.   
ALEX DIERINGER:   Yeah, we wrestled each other a lot more in the beginning of the season.   We didn't really wrestle at the end.   He goes with Perry a lot.   He's made a good run.   He was 12 seed, I think, and he's beaten some good guys on his path to the semis.   I'm excited for him.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the chance for a second national title, but the chance to get your 10 collegiate victory tomorrow?   
ALEX DIERINGER:   Yeah, it's pretty special.   To get my hundredth victory and be a national champion at the same time is pretty cool.   Only being my junior year and all.   I'm excited for it.   I'm ready.  
   
 Q.   Also from earlier you said the second national title is the hardest to win.   Is there anything that's been different in your preparation this season compared to last season?   
ALEX DIERINGER:   I won last year and I'm going to do the same thing I did last year, keep the same repetition going.   If I do that, I should be fine.  
   
 Q.   One of your other teammates, Josh Kindig, unfortunately didn't end his career on a good note.   I don't know if it's just the wear and tear.   What happens to wrestlers as they get older and it becomes actually harder?   
ALEX DIERINGER:   You mean coming back and doing good?   
   
 Q.   Yeah, after injuries and the wear and tear of the sport, what it does to you as you get older?   
ALEX DIERINGER:   Oh, yeah.   He's been injury‑prone quite a bit.   He got injured quite a few times this year.   I feel bad for him.   He's a warrior.   He came out and wrestled and didn't have to do that.   He tore his hamstring, so got a lot of respect for that guy.  
   
 Q.   But is there wear and tear as you get older?   Have you felt it?   
ALEX DIERINGER:   Yeah, definitely.   Some parts of my body are a lot sorer than they were a couple years ago, so they get sore a lot quicker.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT