NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: MIGHTY DUCKS v DEVILS
June 3, 2003
Scott Niedermayer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Scott, Pat Burns just said you are going to need to make Giguere work harder.  Do you agree?
 
SCOTT NIEDERMAYER:  Yeah, I think so.  I think in the last couple of games he's been making the first statement.  He obviously does very well.  We haven't been doing as good of a job as we did in the first couple of games in getting in there so he can't see the shots so well. 
 
Q.  Scott, how is Mom holding out?
 
SCOTT NIEDERMAYER:  I think she might be getting used to it a little bit now.  She's kind of settled in and is just enjoying it now. 
 
Q.  You and Rob had any on-ice conversations yet?
 
SCOTT NIEDERMAYER:  No, not on the ice.  I've only talked to him a couple times since the series started.  Neither of us say a whole lot on the ice to each other or any of the other guys on the ice. 
 
Q.  How do you feel in the first four games as you assessed that your play was real good on home ice.  Is there more to it than that?
 
SCOTT NIEDERMAYER:  I would say that's probably the dominant theme so far.  I think we did play well at home and obviously they did.  And the trick for us now is that we're back at home for one game, is to keep that going and when we get out there to Game 6, to find ways to play better over there.  Right now we'll deal with Game 5. 
 
Q.  Like tennis, it's a pressure to hold your serve here?
 
SCOTT NIEDERMAYER:  Yeah, short series now.  Three games, every game is very, very important now.  We have to be at our best in a couple nights. 
 
Q.  Pat was also saying that you guys were having fun with comments made by Michael Eisner about the parade.  Do you remember noticing that?
 
SCOTT NIEDERMAYER:  There is a lot that goes on in  -- especially in the Final, Stanley Cup Finals, a lot of things being said.  I really don't pay attention to too much of it. 
 
Q.  Scott, have you seen a difference in the way that Coach Burns is during the Finals as opposed to earlier in the playoffs or beginning of the season?
 
SCOTT NIEDERMAYER:  No, not really.  Even someone asked a question to that earlier in the playoffs, and I kind of felt he was pretty much the same as he had been all year, even in the playoffs.  I think that's good.  He knows how we know how he handles things and that hasn't changed. 
 
Q.  Do you remember the first time you ever dealt with him?
 
SCOTT NIEDERMAYER:  As a coach you talk and go over things all the time.  I don't know if I really remember the first time. 
 
Q.  What did you think?
 
SCOTT NIEDERMAYER:  It's been good.  I've enjoyed it.  He's the guy that lets you know what he's thinking.  A lot of times that's really what you want to have.  When you know where you stand and what's expected of you and those sorts of things, when it's laid out black and white, things are pretty simple. 
 
Q.  Scott, a couple of the other guys are saying it's not panic time.  Do you feel like you've let them off the hook a little bit?
 
SCOTT NIEDERMAYER:  I'm sure there was a lot of disappointment in our room, especially after last game, to lose both games there.  We've shortened the series now and every game is that much more important.  I mean, that was probably how we felt a bit after the game.  You can't afford to carry those very long.  You have to be ready to go again and try to get back to our best hockey. 
 
Q.  Scott, I didn't think you had an awful lot of time to set up on the powerplay and get anything really cooking in the last couple of games.  What are your thoughts about what the powerplays have been doing in the last couple?
 
SCOTT NIEDERMAYER:  Well, I would agree.  They have been pretty aggressive, and we haven't had a time where we've managed to set up for too long, whether that's because we're taking shots too soon or because they've done a good job of their penalty-kill.  I think it's an area if we want to have an opportunity to win games, it's an important part of the game and we're going to need it to help us out. 
 
Q.  Scott, there hasn't been a goal scored in the first period of the series yet.  Why do you think that is?
 
SCOTT NIEDERMAYER:  Well, there hasn't been a lot of goals scored, period.  I don't know.  I think both teams go out and they know what their game plan is.  They definitely stick with that, especially early on.  Maybe after a few more mistakes made as the game goes on.  I don't know.   
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT