NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PENGUINS v DEVILS
May 14, 2001
Ken Daneyko
Scott Niedermayer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
KEN DANEYKO:   He's (Sutton) a veteran guy that's played some NHL games, played some playoffs, he's very poised with the puck.  He's not going to step in and replace Scott Niedermayer, but he's stepped in and done exactly what's asked of him, and that's been steady at both ends and he's done exactly that. 
 
Q.  What are you expecting from them tomorrow night coming out, down 0-1? 
 
KEN DANEYKO:   What you would expect from any team that's down 0-1.  They are going to come out pretty hard, obviously.  I think they are going to be rested and have a little better legs, and they are going to really try to skate.  So, we are going to have our work cut out for us.  We are going to have to be even sharper than we were in Game 1 to get this second game. 
 
Q.  Do you sense now that your team is firing on all cylinders; granted you have some people on? 
 
KEN DANEYKO:   Certainly built on the last few games we played against the Leafs, Game 6 and Game 7 was even better.  We felt Game 1 against Pittsburgh, we are getting better and better and what's what you have to do as you go along because competition gets better and better.  This team, so many talented players and probably the two best players in the game in Lemieux and Jagr, and a great supporting cast with Straka, players like that.  So we know what we have to do.  We are well aware of how good they are over there, and if we can continue to build on what we did in Game 1, get them frustrated, not give them too many opportunities, limit their opportunities, they are going to get their chances and then score their points once in awhile, but we can build on what we did in Game 1.  We should be okay.  
 
SCOTT NEDERMAYER:  The last few days, I haven't really felt any real side effects, and today was the same.  So, you know, we are still taking it  -- I don't know if the decision has been made for tomorrow, but hopefully if I continue to feel this way, there will be a good chance that I can play tomorrow.  
 
Q.  Does this pretty much mean you are not going to go tomorrow? 
 
SCOTT NEDERMAYER:  No.  It really hasn't been talked about yet.  The decision has not been made.  But I've felt good the last few days, and I feel optimistic that he will hopefully get in the lineup. 
 
Q.  Larry said yesterday the decision is pretty much up to you.  Do you think that's the way it is right now, after talking to the doctors and everything like that? 
 
SCOTT NEDERMAYER:  I don't know if it is totally up to me, but I need to tell everybody what's going on, how I'm doing.  Lately, I've been feeling good, and we'll just go from there.  The decision has not been made yet.  I haven't really even talked to Larry today.  I'm sure sometime tomorrow he'll let me know. 
 
Q.  Larry said it doesn't matter whether you miss a day or a month; that you'll pick up right where you left off.  Do you agree with that? 
 
SCOTT NEDERMAYER:  Maybe conditioning-wise and things like that, just because, you know, maybe the skating part of it, whatever is a little easier for me, but I don't know, it's going to be tough stepping in against such a talented team like Pittsburgh.  Having to deal where many of their speed and talent.  It's going to be a tough challenge.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT