84 LUMBER CLASSIC OF PENNSYLVANIA
September 18, 2003
Donnie Hammond
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DAVE SENKO:  Donnie, thanks for joining us.  Maybe just get us started, you've got to be pretty happy with a 7-under, considering the conditions today.

DONNIE HAMMOND:   Yeah, the first hole, hit it up about 7 feet.  Knocked that one in, just driver, sand wedge. 

Then hit another sand wedge and made a nice little putt, a 15-footer. 

7, hit 7-iron there, downwind to kind of a tough little pin on the front right and got right to the pin and made about a 15-footer. 

11, made a nice long one, about a 30-footer.  I hit 7-iron to the green.  I made it up the hill and back to the right, that was a fun putt to make. 

13, I made it from about five feet.  It was a 3-wood, sand wedge. 

14 was driver, 7-iron about 12 feet there.  Nice shot back behind the hole. 

15, hit it up in the front left bunker.  Hit it about a foot from the hole and lipped it out on 18.

Nice save on 12.  I was in between a 6- and 7-iron.  Hit a 6-iron a little more solid than I needed to.  Hit it over the back of the green but got it up-and-down and made a 13-footer for par and birdied the next two holes. 

That's the way it goes sometimes, when you're having a round, you make bogey there and you par the next few holes and then only shoot 3- or 4-under. 


Q.  I know everybody was saying it's softened up, even with the drizzle, does it make it even more receptive? 

DONNIE HAMMOND:   Yeah, you could hit  -- you could throw it pretty much right at the pin with a 5-iron, maybe 5- and 6-iron.  I hit to maybe six or eight feet or so.  Makes it easier to get to the pin the way the greens are really slow out there.  It would be a lot more difficult if they were harder. 


Q.  How much wind was there?

DONNIE HAMMOND:   Well, yeah, there's not much wind this morning.  We played in not much wind, really.  It was less than a club wind all day, and half the day it wasn't even really blowing. 

The greens were soft and they had a few tees out there moved up a little bit.  Like on the second hole, it was into the wind.  Some days, it plays easy.  It's not going to dry out any more this week, so it's probably going to be able to make it tougher by sticking the pins a little closer to the sides. 


Q.  Were you looking at the leaderboard at all  --

DONNIE HAMMOND:   Yeah, I didn't really see who was up there.  You don't really need to  -- it's not a course where you need a lot of length out there, really. 


Q.  We know with the weather coming tomorrow  -- the course is already soft, will that mean lower scores  --

DONNIE HAMMOND:   I don't know.  If the wind is blowing at 30-mile-an-hour on Saturday, or we play some tomorrow, which I doubt  -- but you throw a 30-mile-an-hour wind out there Saturday, it's going to be a lot tougher course. 

And they will find these nooks and crannies on the greens, these little devious TOUR officials of ours, putting them two and three yards from the sides these days, they will find the spots. 


Q.  Have you played this course before?

DONNIE HAMMOND:   I was here about six or seven years ago for an outing and then I played Tuesday.  I played 18 Tuesday.  I played with Aaron Oberholser on Tuesday, and then he got a bad draw and had to play again with me today.  But he shot well so he wasn't too upset probably. 

What's the plans for batting down the hatches tomorrow?  Just find a bowling alley and a good bar somewhere?  Is there a bowling alley somewhere within 50 miles of here?  I'll talk to Joe (Hardy).  He'll have one built in a couple of days, yeah.  (Laughter.)




End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT