KEMPER INSURANCE OPEN
June 2, 2000
Donnie Hammond
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







DONNIE HAMMOND: Well, I had five birdies and started out on the 4th hole. 4th hole,
made about a 12-footer from behind the hole a big 3-wood down the left side. Made about a
little 12-footer that broke about a foot. That was a good putt. Then 6, yeah, I hit a good
little 60-degree sand wedge in. Made about a 5-footer there. Then made a couple pars. Made
a good par on 10. Had to make about a 7-footer for par there. Missed the green to the
right a little bit. Hit in the rough. Then I hit a drive on the par 5. What is that, 13. I
birdied 11 from about five feet. 13, I hit a drive up there and it got all the way down on
the bottom of the hill, and I had a 6-iron into the green and 2-putted from about 30 feet.
Hit a real good putt there. It was kind of waiting for it just to dive into the hole and
it stayed just on the upper edge and made an easy birdie there. Then birdied 17 from about
12 feet short of the hole. 

Q. Did the warm conditions have any effect on your play mentally?

DONNIE HAMMOND: Yeah. I got real tired the last four or five holes. I even started to
feel a little dizzy on 15 or so. But I play in weather this hot in Florida, but it's with
a cart and shorts. It was real hot out there. I'm not used to -- I don't think we've had a
day like this, this hot, at least where I've been playing all year. It was tough to get
used to, and like I say, it was a little draining the last four or five holes.

Q. How did you combat that? 

DONNIE HAMMOND: It just keeps you a little relaxed. It's hard to get too excited when
you're that drained, I guess. So it really didn't effect me too bad. I hit the ball pretty
well and probably kept me from getting excited; so it was good.

Q. How fulfilling is it for you after not being out here for a while to come out with
the sponsor's exemption and play this well, basically at home, in front of folks that know
you? 

DONNIE HAMMOND: Yeah, it's been a lot of fun so far. Usually there's a lot more
scrambling the first two days. It's a tricky course out there, but I think I've only
missed two fairways the first two days. So it's been, you know, a couple pretty easy
rounds for me and I've hit my irons pretty well. It's really -- it was really pretty easy
the first two days for me. I've been hitting a lot of good drives and just missing two
fairways. I was just off of those two fairways, and that's where you get in trouble out
here, if you start missing fairways. 

Q. When was the last time that you played a pressure golf round? What are you preparing
for mentally to handle that situation? 

DONNIE HAMMOND: Just try to -- just work on what I've been working on with my swing. I
think I'll be playing with Chris DiMarco again who I played with the first two days. We're
neighbors in Heathrow, Florida; so we play a lot of golf when we're home together. So that
will be one good thing is playing with Chris. I got my kids out walking around, so if I
get nervous, just look over at them. Kind of loosens you up a little bit. They are up this
week.

Q. Could you talk a little bit about how it feels just one back going into tomorrow and
the day you had today? 

DONNIE HAMMOND: Well, I think it's key for me just to keep -- you know, if I can keep
hitting the driver like I am, I should be able to do pretty well. That's going to be the
key for me is to keep hitting, you know, keep hitting the fairways, with some pretty good
length. I'll just wake up tomorrow and see what the conditions are like. See how the
course is set up. Usually having a late tee time like this, you can see the scores when
you get to the golf course and tell whether the golf course is set up a little bit and how
the guys are playing. If someone is shooting 6- or 7-under, you know you might have to go
out and try to be a little more aggressive. So that will be good to have a late tee time. 

Q. Is there maybe something positive about, you know, a guy in your position that it's
been 10 or 12 years since you've been out here, then playing and winning on the BUY.COM
TOUR, is that going to help your confidence? 

DONNIE HAMMOND: That was real good for my confidence, winning that tournament, shooting
a 67 the last round and winning there and having a few good tournaments out on that tour
has been good this year. And that really is important. It's as important an asset you can
have when you play golf, is your confidence. You can be swinging great, but if you start
second-guessing yourself, you're in trouble. As you guys probably know, when you play in a
club championship, it starts going downhill, or you're getting ready to shoot one of the
best rounds of your life you start second-guessing yourself, saying, "Oh, there I go
again." So confidence is a big thing in golf, and that's probably helped me coming
into this tournament.

Q. Is there a time on TOUR where you thought it might not happen at any level? 

DONNIE HAMMOND: Not really. I've got The SENIOR TOUR again. I'm going to get one of
those. These guys are tough out here, though. 

Q. You mentioned riding in the cart in Florida in the heat. Is this one of those days
where Casey Martin might have an advantage with his cart, do you think? 

DONNIE HAMMOND: No. I don't think Casey has an advantage with his cart. I just think
it's just as tough for him. 

Q. Did you notice that the closer you got to the lead, the more people were around you,
did you notice the numbers were starting to go up, people in the area that know you? 

DONNIE HAMMOND: Not really. I was just -- my little girl was out there cheering me on
the whole way so I was just keeping my eye on her. She kept saying, "Way to go,
dad." So we were just having fun, she was always right there by the tee. And she had
not been to a lot of tournaments in the last couple years so she's having a ball, too.
Brittany, yeah. 

Q. You've been doing this for a long time. Could you tell me a little bit about what
the low point in your career and the high point in your career is to this point? 

DONNIE HAMMOND: High point maybe was I guess when I won my first tournament, the Bob
Hope. Probably the biggest thrill for me to win on the TOUR. That's what you're always
thinking about when you're 13 or 14 years old and you're watching CBS and you're watching
Lanny Wadkins and Tom Kite with tournaments and that's what you're dreaming about. Then
once you actually do that, it's really satisfying. And the low point would be, I don't
know, maybe when I'm 60 and can't cash a billing check on the Super Seniors, I don't know.
I haven't hit a real bad point yet. I don't know. It's been all good. Even when I've
played not -- not real well, I've still enjoyed playing and never really thought of
getting out of the game. So you have to look ahead when you're a golf pro. 

Q. You talked about confidence, can you talk about where your confidence level was or
has been in the past few years? 

DONNIE HAMMOND: Well, it comes and goes when you're on the TOUR. You have stretches
where you play well for two or three weeks and you might be contending to win for a couple
weeks in a row, and then you might miss three or four cuts in a row. The best players do
the same thing. The best players will miss three or four cuts in a row, and you come out
and you're thinking -- you just want to make a cut in the tournament the next tournament.
And it happens to all the great players. And then certain weeks when you're contending you
step on the first tee expecting to be, you know, having a chance to win with nine holes to
go. So it's a fragile, fragile thing, a golfer's ego. 

Q. When you factor in the weather conditions, but also your feeling the last four
holes, are you glad that you were the last threesome that finished, or do you wish you
would have been able to finish the last hole with a fresh start tomorrow?

DONNIE HAMMOND: I think you always probably want to get done. Yeah, I was happy to get
done. I wouldn't want to get up at 8:00 to have to come out here and finish and have to
tee off at 2:00. Although, they have a great breakfast here. It wouldn't be bad. 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT