U.S. SENIOR WOMEN'S OPEN
May 18, 2019
Suzy Green-Roebuck
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  That was quite a finish.  
SUZY GREEN-ROEBUCK: Thank you.   
 Q.  All those birdies in the last five; that's really nice.  How did you do it?  
SUZY GREEN-ROEBUCK: Well, my caddie was just so positive and picking great numbers and reminding me to stay relaxed and reminding me that I'm swinging well and just kind of stay in the moment.  So I just really feel like I had some tough -- some longer clubs coming in.  I didn't place my drive exactly perfect, but I was in the fairway.  We just picked numbers and made good swings and a few putts fell in.  We read the greens correctly.  The grain is a little tricky from time to time out here, and started really making some nice strokes.   
 Q.  Take us through those holes that you made birdie.  How close did you hit it, what was your --  
SUZY GREEN-ROEBUCK: You know, I had two 4-woods on both of those birdies into the green, so I'm not one to -- I mean, it's medium but not one of the longer hitters for sure out here.  You know, on No. -- is it 14, the dogleg right, it depends on where you hit it on the angle.  I pulled my tee ball a little bit, so I had a longer club coming into the green, and we've been working hard on ball position and just felt really good over it and landed a little short, trickled up there, nice little uphill putt into the grain, which helps, frees you up a little bit.  And then what was my other birdie?  17?  Yeah.   
 Q.  How long was the putt?  
SUZY GREEN-ROEBUCK: Probably about 12 feet.  And then 17 -- no, 15, the par-5.  Just really placed it perfectly off the tee, great second shot, just in the middle of the fairway and had a nice number in, 75 to the pin, and it's a perfect 56 wedge for me, just a nice smooth one and left it under the hole again into the grain, and then here I made two great par saves in between those two holes.  Donald Ross got me on a few of those approach shots.   
And then 18 I had a gripped 4-wood.  I was right in between clubs.  My 7-wood carries about 175, and that's what I had, but you're into the grain on this approach shot into the green, so I felt like I could go after something.  I just gripped my 4-wood again, which carried about 180 and just rolled right up there, again, into the grain about eight feet, ten feet maybe.   
 Q.  Your reaction to a top 10 on the leaderboard going into the last round?  
SUZY GREEN-ROEBUCK: You know, I was there last year.  It's comfortable.  I feel good about it.  This is like a second home for me, Pinehurst area.  I've been coming here for years.  I worked with Harvie Ward here actually at Pine Needles when he was teaching.  So I played the course a lot.  I'm comfortable here.  You know, like I made a little toast at dinner last night, I'm doing what I love to do in the place I love most.  Hopefully I'll just keep swinging nice and stay in the moment, and whatever happens happens.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT