NHL ALL-STAR WEEKEND
January 17, 1998
Patrick Roy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  What was it like slipping the Olympic stuff on last night?

PATRICK ROY:  It was fun.  We had a chance to see all the guys.  It was more information than anything else. But that was fun, like I said, to be with the guys for the first time, talk about it.


Q.  Is this All-Star Game going to be any different than any other All-Star Game?

PATRICK ROY:  I don't know.  There's a lot of offensive skills there.  Obviously, I mean, you expect to see the guys go (inaudible) offensively, and having a lot of scoring chances.  I mean, the format is a little different, but I believe it will be the same.


Q.  (Inaudible)?

PATRICK ROY:  It's my eighth time here.  I don't think about it that way.  I'm proud to be here, having a chance to see players.  The fans make it fun.


Q.  (Inaudible)?

PATRICK ROY:  Well, I don't know.  I mean, overall, I don't think there's such a big difference between them.


Q.  (Inaudible)? 

PATRICK ROY:  Not yet.  It's a little too early.  I think it will be the morning of the 8th, February 8th.


Q.  (Inaudible)?

PATRICK ROY:  That's a good question.  I don't know.  We had our camp in Colorado Springs, played a few games on the big ice.  You know, just going to wait to see what's the difference.  With an exhibition game a few years ago when I was in Montreal, I didn't see a problem.  I mean, it's different from the perspective that you cannot go outside of the net and try to play the puck when it's in the corner because it's too far, or you've got to be really sharp.  It's deeper behind, there's more room there.  It will change on this side of the game.  For the rest, it's a matter of feeling comfortable.


Q.  (Inaudible)?

PATRICK ROY:   (Inaudible) a few years in Montreal, I guess I could handle that (laughter).  But, you know, I'm very excited about it.  Like I said, it's the first time for me to participate in international competition.  I guess if there's one you want to be in, I guess it's this one.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT