NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: AVALANCHE v RED WINGS
May 25, 2002
Patrick Roy
Joe Sakic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Can I open this up to both of you guys?  One of your teammates said we like adversity.  It's amazing what it takes for this to kick in.  
 
JOE SAKIC:  It seems once again tonight, tough first two periods.  We had the momentum from last game and it seemed to carry over and luckily for us, Patrick played so well the first two periods for us and got an early goal in the third and got the momentum back to us. 
 
Q.  Joe, going into the second intermission and third period, did you guys think the season was on the line?
 
JOE SAKIC:  I mean, it was pretty obvious.  Guys talked a bit after the second, but we really didn't have to say much.  I think everybody knows that we didn't want to go down three games to one.  That would be an uphill battle.  We played better in the third, and got the win.  It's a whole new ballgame now. 
 
Q.  Patrick, you've faced 75 shots in two games.  You guys picked up the win in the third.  That might not bode well if things don't tighten up defensively; is that fair to say?
 
PATRICK ROY:  Every night I go out there and try to give my teammates a chance to win.  I thought we responded well in the third.  Three or four guys stood up.  Like Joe mentioned, we needed some great urgency in the third to move on and try to win that game. 
 
Q.  Is it simplifying things too much to kind of say you threw a switch in the third period and turned things around?
 
JOE SAKIC:  I think it helped to get an early goal and get that lead.  Just seeing that the jump was there after for everybody and we got it to 3-1, Chris had a great goal to make it 3-1 and that was it.  It was a good boost for our hockey club, and we know it's 2-2 now, and it's the best two  out of three.  We want to go out and hopefully build off the third period. 
 
Q.  What kind of impact did the line changes have and what kind of message did it send?
 
JOE SAKIC: Like any coach, if things aren't working, and obviously they weren't, like any coach, he looked for something, changed it up and tried to split things up just to see what would work, and it seemed to pay off tonight. 
 
Q.  Did either one of you say anything at the second intermission?  And, Joe, can you talk about  -- you look like you came out with lot more jump at the start of the third period.
 
JOE SAKIC:  To get that early goal, I had a lot of speed.  The jump kind of came after that. 
 
Q.  Did either one of you say anything at the second  intermission?
 
JOE SAKIC:  No. 
 
PATRICK ROY:  No. 
 
Q.  Did you give an expression like that to your teammates?
 
PATRICK ROY:  I thought I answered the question, I'm sorry.  I said Keane and Adam Foote did a great job.  For me, I wanted to make sure I remained focused and help the guys to win the third. 
 
Q.  Is seems like you guys are 2-2, yet you haven't put together your best game.  Do you think you have a better game ahead of you coming into the final three games?
 
JOE SAKIC:  We have to if we expect to move on.  The first two games were a lot better for us.  They dominated for the most part the last two games.   
 
Q.  Patrick, this is your 237th playoff game.  Is that extra special nice for you?
 
PATRICK ROY:  Yes, it is.  It means I play a lot of playoff games, and in order to be there, I mean, you have to perform well in the playoffs, and I put a lot of pride in playing well in the playoffs and am certainly proud to be where I am. 
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT