CHAMP CAR MEDIA CONFERENCE
December 11, 2006
Jim Freudenberg
Steve Johnson
Richard Ramirez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
JIM  FREUDENBERG: It was a very exciting day  for us today. We announced our tickets  went on sale to the public. Along with  that we announced thanks to Richard and his company, working with Visa, we've  secured some very big long-term viability for the Vegas Grand Prix.   
  
It also is  going to enable us to fulfill the dreams of our two owners, Brad Yonover and  Dale Jensen, who had some very high aspirations for their two events in both Las Vegas and Phoenix.  This is going to enable us to certainly step it up and make sure those  dreams are fulfilled.   
  
  
  
JIM  FREUDENBERG: Fell from the sky  (laughter).   
  
No,  actually, I don't think it's any secret that we certainly try to do as much  B-to-B and B-to-C work as we can. In the  process of that, we signed on a printing sponsor named Tim Taylor. Tim is a very prominent businessman, has a  great printing business, amongst many other things. He understood the concept of joining the  country club and bringing all his friends.  Richard is one of his friends.   
  
We were  able to convince Richard this was a good opportunity, not just for the two  races that Brad and Dale own, but for all the ventures and subsidiaries of DDB  Ventures. This partnership is tied to  everything that DDB Ventures does and not just the two races.   
  
  
  
RICHARD  RAMIREZ: Well, what made it an  attractive deal was not only the event itself, but it just made sense, like Jim  said, with other business ventures with Brad and Dale.   
  
But for the  event, it's a great platform, especially with the name "Fueled by  Visa" to showcase our technology. First  Data is about speed efficiency, that is our main focus here. It's just a great platform, and it makes  sense to sponsor this event. From that  point, getting the logistics from Vegas Grand Prix, it just made sense.   
  
Once I saw  the benefit of it, the partnership that we were about to put together, that's  when we pulled the trigger. You know,  we're just so thrilled to be sponsoring this event.   
  
  
  
RICHARD  RAMIREZ: It really is. Our business is based on transactions. We process Visa, we process obviously all  credit cards, they just prefer Visa here (laughter). Yeah, that's our business.   
  
It just  made sense because of the other venues, as well, the excitement, being the  inaugural, being the first to kick this thing off. We sat down and we decided this is a go, not  just for this event, but as well as for the Phoenix event.   
  
We're also  bringing in some other partners, as well, to be announced later. But it's just going to be a good  partnership.   
  
  
  
Mr.  Johnson, Champ Car has put together a great schedule for 2007, four brand-new  events, start starting off in Las Vegas.  Makes the season opener even more exciting.   
  
STEVE  JOHNSON: We've announced four, but the  others are to come.   
  
Having been  involved with the Vegas Grand Prix with Jim Freudenberg for the last 14 months,  every week it gets better and more exciting.  I didn't think it could get any better or more exciting, but I was wrong.   
  
Announcing  the Grand Prix Fueled by Visa I think is truly the icing on the cake. I just want to tell the First Data and Visa  folks, on behalf of Champ Car, we welcome them to our family and look forward  to many years of a great relationship.   
  
  
  
 Q. Jim,  I think Richard might have even hinted at it.  This release says Vegas, multi-year, multi-city. Could it be more than Vegas and  Phoenix ? Could it be as many as three cities fueled by  the same sponsors?   
  
JIM  FREUDENBERG: We are here to talk about  Vegas today. I will tell you, it is not  -- there is not a third city involved. I  will tell you that.   
  
 Q. Could  you perhaps talk about the other potential benefits involved with not just  these two events, but getting involved in a series-wide way. What aspects of the series as a whole beyond  just the two events sponsorships could be attractive to this sort of  package?   
  
JIM  FREUDENBERG: I'll briefly speak to that,  then Richard may have something to say as well.   
  
I think the  reason this deal made sense for Richard and his company was because Brad and  Dale, my owners, have a number of companies, including sports teams and other  series, not other racing series, but Major League Baseball, the NBA. There are a lot of synergies with all of  their companies, not just these two races.  So the races obviously will see the initial benefit. Richard and his company jumped on board for a  much bigger platform than just two events.   
  
That's not  to say that somewhere down the road, if we can make financial sense of the  transaction business, the technology they're going to showcase at these two  events for a bigger audience, for more events, that that won't be something  we're trying to do. Initially it's tied  to DDB Ventures, which just happens to own two races as well.   
  
  
  
RICHARD  RAMIREZ: I think Jim nailed it right on  the head. Not to say that something  wouldn't happen in the future, but as of right now, those are the main points  of why this deal happened.   
  
 Q. Jim,  can you just talk about the cooperation that you got from the City of  Las Vegas . It's interesting what those guys over at NASCAR  didn't get much cooperation to build a track in  New York City , but you probably got  great cooperation. How did the town get  behind this whole thing?   
  
JIM  FREUDENBERG: We were really given some  good advice in the beginning. When I  came in here, Joe (Trinelik) had been working with some other people within the  city for almost nine months to a year. They  were working from the city angle. The  contacts that we made here, the friends that Brad and Dale had here, sat me  down and said, We need to get the downtown casinos behind this race and then go  to the city, rather than do it the other way around, which is the problem that  had been happening. He formed a couple  of lunches for us with all the downtown casinos. We sat in front of them and said, What do we  need to do to make this thing work? They  gave us a set of guidelines they all agreed to.   
  
We went to  the city with all that support, which is why the city turned around and said,  It's a no-brainer. If you have all these  big businesses that fuel our downtown area together saying we want to do this,  then we need to get behind it and support it as well.   
  
The city  councilmen and the mayor have been just been incredible. I have been involved in a number of these  things over the last 15, 16 years. I've  never seen a city get behind something the way that this city got behind this  event. If they all would get behind it  with the same magnitude, we'd probably have too many races (laughter).   
  
 Q.  Steve, where are we in the car count for next year? What is happening with Paul Stoddart's  intentions?   
  
STEVE  JOHNSON: I'll keep it quick. I'm going to meet with Mr. Stoddart later  this week. Car counts are looking  healthy. We're looking at somewhere  between 20 and 24 cars. There's a lot of  deals being finalized right now. I meet  with Mr. Stoddart in Indianapolis later this week.   
  
 Q. The  press release that came out this morning talked about the Vegas Grand  Prix. Did I hear you say this is also  going to be a sponsorship for the  Phoenix  race as well?   
  
JIM  FREUDENBERG: You did not hear me say  that. We will announce other  announcements at future dates. Today's  announcement was strictly about the Vegas Grand Prix.   
  
 Q. You  did mention two races?   
  
JIM  FREUDENBERG: Yeah, multi-city,  multi-year is what we mentioned.   
  
Q. I've seen some other events around the world  where people who are like Visa cardholders might get ticket discounts. Anything like that planned for this  event?   
  
JIM  FREUDENBERG: No, there's nothing like that  right now. It will be a moneyless  event. We're going to use technology  we'll announce at a later date. We will  not be offering discounts necessarily.   
  
First Data  processes all credit cards, so we don't want to deter from that. Visa is getting the preferential treatment at  this point for this event. But it's not  something that is going to get -- quite frankly, we're in a position where we  don't have to offer discounts, which is a wonderful thing.   
  
 Q. I've  heard ticket sales were going pretty well, preticket sales?    
  
JIM  FREUDENBERG: Amazingly well. In fact, we added 35% more seats last Monday  because we felt like the demand was there.  With the presales, we weren't going to have a lot to go out to the  public with from a reserve perspective if we didn't.   
  
 Q. What  is the grandstand count up at?   
  
JIM  FREUDENBERG: Brad and Dale don't  announce anything like that. I will tell  you it is substantial. After being  involved with a number of races in my career, this one by far is the biggest  that I've been involved with.   
  
 Q. When  you have a street race, like  Denver  I guess is a good  example, you had Centrix, looked like they spent a lot of money, promoted it,  had corporate involvement, then went away.  Denver  has really been a struggle. Can  you put into words, is it almost impossible to make a street race go without a  title sponsor in this day and age?   
  
JIM  FREUDENBERG: Certainly without a title  sponsor, for temporary road course events, your capital expenditures are pretty  expensive to try to amortize, unless you have an owner like Bob Sutton was,  where Bob was passionate about motorsports, was willing to take those risks,  spend the money out of his own pocket.   
  
Beyond that  you really need a title sponsorship because you're only getting three days of  revenue from a temporary facility. It's  expensive to build.   
  
 Q. I  heard someone on the call say there's some good business-to-business deals,  relationships, with this sponsorship. Can  you help us understand what you get out of this? How are you tying it together with your  business?   
  
RICHARD  RAMIREZ: How it ties in is obviously  with other venues such as some of the teams that Dale owns or some of the  things that Brad's doing, 82% of people in the country swipe credit cards. Just so you know what First Data is, every  four transactions done in the entire world are done by us. We have a vested interest in their business,  in taking over their platform and their credit card services, ATM, Visa gift  cards. Anything that's cashless we're  going to be doing business with. That's  what the whole key was to getting this thing done. That's how we tie into this. That's exactly what made sense to myself and  some other people.   
  
 Q. Jim,  given the fact a number of Champ Car drivers live in the Vegas area, how active  have you been working with them, getting them to help you in promoting the  race? How do you see that evolving as  the race comes closer?   
  
JIM  FREUDENBERG: Actually, we've been pretty  lucky. I'm really good friends with  Jimmy Vasser. Obviously Jimmy has been  available on a number of occasions for not just our announcements and our  parties but for track evaluations, helping us and Chris Kneifel with some  turns, angling, cambers, things like that.  Alex Tagliani came to our initial launch party. I've had numerous conversations with Paul  Tracy, who has offered up his services as well any time we need any of his  help.   
  
They've  been very accessible and wonderful to work with. It makes it a little easier when you have  them in your city. If I could just get  Jimmy in a car.   
  
  
  
  
   
  End  of FastScripts…  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT