THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 17, 1994
Jim Grabb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  What about the injury with your ankle?

 JIM GRABB:  I was just coming into the net and changed directions
and came back and just a freak thing, my ankle rolled and I don't
know exactly-- they called it a Grade-1 sprain.  It is not too
bad.  Just didn't seem to get my movement back.

 Q.  Did you consider retiring at any point there?

 JIM GRABB:  Not really.  You get to this point in a tournament
and there is a lot on the line and anything can happen in a match.
 Actually I thought I just played-- I didn't have all the clubs
in the bag, so to speak, but I missed a shot at whatever, at 3-4
-- I think it was 3-All actually where I got broke; then I almost
got the break back.  So you never know what happens and he could
have rolled his ankle, so I wasn't going to quit.

 Q.  Did you have to change strategy or did you play pretty
much the same game?

 JIM GRABB:  Well, I just couldn't serve and volley and I tried
to dominate the points a little from the baseline.  I think that
made me impatient took me out of my rhythm a little bit.  I don't
know.

 Q.  How frustrating is it after you have been out for nine
months and then you get a big shot in a big tournament; you are
playing well; up a set and then something like this happens?

 JIM GRABB:  Well, it's pretty frustrating.  I thought I was having
my way with him and felt very, very comfortable at that point
and so in that respect, it is very disappointing because I feel
I had a very good chance to be in the semifinals and who knows
what happens at that point in the tournament, but you know, there
is a lot bigger problems to have and I had a much bigger problem
a year ago and I anticipate at some point I will have a bigger
problem in my life than a sprained ankle.  Right now, it seems
like a big deal, but with the proper perspective, it is not that
big of a deal.

 Q.  I guess the other side is how encouraging is it after
being out so long; you are in the quarters of a major event like
and obviously playing pretty well?

 JIM GRABB:  Actually really felt like I hit the ball here well.
 I won some matches thus far this year, but these -- this tournament,
I felt like I was hitting the ball with the center of the racket;
playing good tennis and winning matches for that reason also--
and that is very encouraging.  You have to get your rhythm back
after such a long time and I suspect I might lose it again in
the next few months.  I think it is encouraging.  I feel each
week I am making small improvements.  Hopefully this is just a
minor setback and I can get it together again when I go to Asia
and keep the process rolling forward, but it is definitely encouraging.


 Q.  Is it important to you - you have certainly established
yourself as a great doubles player - to establish that same kind
of notoriety in singles as well; which you are now doing?

 JIM GRABB:  Yeah, I think that everybody grows up and the first
thing you do is play singles and I like both events.  Singles
is a little more special.  You are out there fighting on your
own and I love to keep my singles results improving and get those
in line with my doubles results, but I would never give up the
doubles.  I have a lot of fun.  I have had good fortune to be
playing with real nice guys and guys that I have not only played
good doubles with, but had a good time with, so I will never give
that part of it up. 

  End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT