U.S. OPEN
September 11, 1992
Jim Grabb
Richey Reneberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.   You were down two breaks in the second set; you came
back and won it.  Was that the turning point?

 RICHEY RENEBERG:  Yeah, I thought so.  Even though we came back
and won that set, I thought that we -- we were still a long way
to go.  It was only a set-all and they were out -- really played
better than us the first two sets, but you know, things kind of
seemed to go our way after that?

 JIM GRABB:  Richey just thought that I was playing so badly.
 There was actually no way we would be able to win.

 Q.   How many set points do you remember?  How many set points
had you guys saved?

 RICHEY RENEBERG:  I do not remember being down any.  I don't
think so.  I know on my serve they got-- we were deuce, but I
thought that -- I didn't think--

 JIM GRABB:  There might have been a few at 1-5.  

 RICHEY RENEBERG:  I don't remember, but at that point it wasn't
really-- we were just, I think, thinking about the third set and
how we were going to at least try to get somewhat competitive.
 Then, all of a sudden, I really don't know what turned it around.
 It was strange.  It was kind of those games went by real fast,
and all of a sudden we were up five break points to win it; then
we played a good tiebreaker.  I think that kind of brought us
to life.

 JIM GRABB:  It was a strange game.

 Q.   Any thoughts on the turnaround?

 JIM GRABB:  It was bizarre, no.  I was really playing about as
bad as I possibly could play, and somehow, you know, I told Richey,
I think, well, I am really confused, but at some point I said,
let's just try to hold your serve, so that I can get one more
chance to return in this set, so that I can get a couple of more
returns.  I didn't hit any returns, and then, you know, we won
that game, and then I happened to return pretty well.  I don't
know why, really defied the current pattern at the time, and then,
all of a sudden, they were serving at 5-4, and we played another
good game.  And I think after that, we both picked up our level
pretty well.  I had a lot further to go, but we picked it up.


 Q.   How nice is it, after coming so close at Wimbledon, to
finally win one here?

 RICHEY RENEBERG:  I think-- I mean, it feels great.  It is--
doubles is always, no matter who you are playing, it is always
close.  We could have very easily been out of this in the first
or second round, you know, to come back and to play, I thought
the last four matches we played, we played really well, and you
know, excluding the first set today, and I feel-- I think it is
nice.  I mean, every match is, in my opinion, nerve-wracking.
 It is hard to break serve and just a matter of a couple of lucky
points here and there.  So, no matter what happens the rest of
the way we have this one, and I think it is great.

 Q.   Jim, do you think it is like somewhat fitting, because
of what happened at Wimbledon that you come back and beat McEnroe,
Stich here yesterday and then you come back and rally from here
to win?

 JIM GRABB:  I don't know if it's fate.  History is, I think,
is made by sort of luck, and bizarre turns of fortune, and tennis
is the same.  I mean, you-- this is great.  I wasn't really thinking
about that.  Perhaps, in my subconscious, that contributes to
why this is-- this feels so good, but today is today; not yesterday.


 Q.   Does it feel like you guys have been out there; forever
yesterday's match and back here today?  

 RICHEY RENEBERG:  I definitely think we were at a disadvantage
because we had played our last two matches. We started quarterfinals
playing three out of five sets. We waited to play our quarterfinal
match on Wednesday at 11 and that was the first match at 11. 
Yesterday we were scheduled for 11 and today again at 11 which
means we have to get up at 7:30, which we don't do very often.
 So I thought maybe that contributes to why we were flat at the
beginning today.  I know my mind was quite of wandering a little
bit.

 JIM GRABB:  We got out of here pretty late last night.  Because
of the TV they adjust the schedule.  We couldn't start a little
later.

 RICHEY RENEBERG:  Match yesterday definitely took something out
of us, at least the start to-- then I think we really picked it
up and played well.

 Q.   Did you have any game plan for this match; anybody that
you were trying to attack or--?

 RICHEY RENEBERG:  Not really.  We played them before.  I think
they both play-- seems like we have played them couple of times
and each time a different guy has played better.  I think they
are really even.  It is more a matter of strategy.  They try to
cross a lot, things like that. So it is really more, I think,
trying to develop a certain strategy as opposed to playing any
particular person.

 Q.   McEnroe says you guys really move a lot.  Is that pretty
nice compliment when you hear him talking about you guys as good
doubles players, since he is considered probably the best?

 RICHEY RENEBERG:  Yeah any time you get a compliment from John,
it is nice, and yeah, I think we tried to move a lot.  We seemed
to move more against when we play those guys, I think.  Yeah,
I think it is important part of doubles.  If you play where you
are not moving and you stand there and the guys returning; can
get a rhythm; they know they don't have to worry about the guy
coming cross and they can hit crosscourt.  Same when we were returning,
we tried to move some.  I think it is important.

 Q.   Richey, what will this mean to you, this is your first
Grand Slam title?

 RICHEY RENEBERG:  It is great.  Hopefully, you know, I was saying--
like I was saying, Wimbledon, it's kind of a different feeling
to be around so late in the Grand Slam because I never really
have done too well in singles.  So I think hopefully this will
help me help my confidence and I will begin continue to play really
good doubles and start playing better in singles.

 Q.   Are you guys committed to playing or hopefully committed
to playing next year again, the Slams, and staying together as
a team?

 JIM GRABB:  I think so.

 RICHEY RENEBERG:  Yeah.  I think so.  Sometimes you go a long
and we have seen a lot of teams dominate for a year and it is
hard to keep it up.  We expect at some point, maybe, some of the
breaks that were going our way, maybe wouldn't.  I think there
is no reason why we can't keep playing.

 Q.   How was the team form?  What caused you guys to --

 JIM GRABB:  I think just a couple of years ago when I was playing
with Pat, our schedules sort of diverged for a few weeks, and
I just thought that Richey and I would make a pretty good team.


 Q.   What was your first tournament together?

 JIM GRABB:  I think Washington in 90.

 RICHEY RENEBERG:  Yeah, first tournament we won was last fall
in Sidney.

 Q.   Did you ask him to play with you or did he ask-- did
you ask him to play?

 RICHEY RENEBERG:  He asked me.  Because up until I started playing
with Jim I never really had a real good doubles -- I think my
highest doubles rank is maybe 30.  He has always done well in
doubles and now -- I think it is -- I remember when we first started
playing, it was definitely more pressure; more intensity, because
Jim is a really good doubles player.  I think it made me really
focused on it. I never did before.  Kind of when I was at a singles
-- if I won a doubles match, I was fine, I just as soon kind of
leave sometimes, but I think, really, I think, playing with Jim
has really helped me to take a lot more seriously and really work
on doubles, as opposed to kind of going through the motion.

 Q.   All four finalists played college tennis. Do you think
that that helps you in your doubles play?  Do you think that is
a factor all that experience in college play?

 JIM GRABB:  Yeah, I think that there is some excellent doubles
players from all the countries, but that is probably, a few more
from the States because -- I think they are talking about changing,
but at least when I was playing, the doubles were very important
there.  Many matches came down to the eighth and ninth match which
happened to be doubles, and Coach Leach was sitting watching Ricky
play there, and I can just remember some really hellacious matches
we played with S. C., that came down to 4-All in matches and 6-All
in the tiebreaker and third and last match.  So you know, if you--
when you take it seriously, you work on some things.  You polish
some skills.  I think you come out with a little bit of an advantage.
 Nothing you can't necessarily work on later, but the guys that
have been to college have that as part of their background.

 Q.   Jim, when you were playing badly during the first set,
were you worried at all that you might cause the team to lose?

 JIM GRABB:  Yeah, I was it seemed -- yeah, it was terrible. 
We were down-- we were almost down two sets to love; not being
real competitive.  Yeah, I was very worried and I felt bad, but
I kept doing the things, you know, that I needed to do to play
better.  I know what they are, and just took a little bit longer
today.

 Q.   Jim, were you lecturing yourself more than Richey was?
 I mean, how much talking goes on when one of you is having problems?

 JIM GRABB:  I think Richey did a good job today helping me out;
 making sure that I didn't panic, and you know, I just, you know,
I did, like I said, I did the things and to Richey's credit, he
didn't let that bring his game down.  If anything, it pumped him
up; he played a little bit better until I could get in there and
fight. Even at that point, he didn't let up.  That was a rely
good effort on his part.

 Q.   Jim, you have been mentioned as maybe a future Davis
Cup player in doubles.  Is that something you think about or what
would that mean to you if that situation ever came about? ?

 JIM GRABB:  I'd love to play.  That -- I think now--- especially
now that we have played pretty well and we have a pretty good
record, and you know, not necessarily that we should play, but
at least we should be considered, because I think that we have
produced a pretty good track record.

 Q.   Going all the way back to Lutz and Smith, there always
seems to be one American doubles team which dominated world tennis
for a period of time, all the way through Leach and Pugh.  And
now there really doesn't seem to be one dominant team.  Jim, any
explanation for that, any thought about that?

 JIM GRABB:  I think that -- I think that you see a little bit
of the same thing in singles.  It is difficult to dominate this
game now.  There are a lot--

 RICHEY RENEBERG:  Too much power.

 JIM GRABB: -- Of good athletes.  Big power games, and you know,
it is very, very balanced, and even more so probably in doubles,
because matches are always so close. That is why I think when
you see Anders, Jarryd and John Fitzgerald can last year, it was
tremendous.  I think they won three out of the four Slams and
the next three biggest tournaments including the ATP finals, so
you know, I think that that is more and more difficult to do,
and you know, I don't see it happening, really.

 Q.   Thank you very much.   


 End of FastScripts....            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT