INDIANA UNIVERSITY BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 14, 2014
James Blackmon, Jr.
Ryan Burton
Nick Zeisloft
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






Mississippi Valley - 65
  Indiana - 116

JAMES BLACKMON, JR:   It was big for me to have a big game.   I felt like everybody did looking at these stats right here, so we just want to keep it going. 

Q.   What balance do you guys want to strike possession to possession on playing fast without losing control without making unforced errors.   I know you had stretches where you did a little bit of both tonight. 
NICK ZEISLOFT:   Most definitely, we have a big emphasis on taking care of the ball regardless of how fast we play we know we have been scoring it at such a high rate that every turnover affects us.   You value those possessions and they're going to matter every game coming up. 
JAMES BLACKMON, JR:   Yeah, like he said, big emphasis on turnovers.   Sometimes with us we just have to not try and make the home run play, but just make basic plays and that will help us. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
NICK ZEISLOFT:   Yeah, you can say it's been overlooked, but coming here, Coach Crean has pushed me to even get in the lane even more, so I feel like that's helping me right now and that's something I'm going to keep focusing on. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
RYAN BURTON:   We definitely did a great job of that.   We might not have communicated as much on some back taps in the first half, we were a little careless with some plays.   And then in the second half we were pretty solid and we made a big emphasis at the half and we were looking to do the same in the first few minutes of the second half, but we have to do it the whole game, though. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
JAMES BLACKMON, JR:   Yeah, definitely.   Just come in, you got to play physical, call out screens and everything like that.   So I think that's definitely something.   Not just me, but as a team. 
So I think tonight was a big emphasis on that, especially during the first big game of the year.   I think as a team we really came out with a great mindset and count less other things. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
JAMES BLACKMON, JR:   Really what he told me was he's been trying to work on me on pushing my dribble out and that's what I tried to do right there.   So he just explained to me on how to push the dribble out and when to not.   He said just relax right there.   He said just don't let that happen again and I don't think it did. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT