NASDAQ-100 OPEN
April 3, 2004
Jonas Bjorkman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  We're interested in the Davis Cup situation. 

JONAS BJORKMAN:  I have no idea.  You have to ask Mats.

Q.  We were afraid you'd say that.

JONAS BJORKMAN:  That's the situation.  I'm playing the NASDAQ Open, and that's what I'm focused on.  You've got the whole team up in Delray.  If you need any comments about Davis Cup, you can ask them.  They know everything.  I'm not even in the situation to know anything about it.

Q.  But did you know about the injury or anything? 

JONAS BJORKMAN:  Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.  I heard he went back home.  He had an MRI.  But for me, I can't start thinking about the next week, sort of.  I've got my tournament to focus on.

Q.  I guess you were going to play doubles with him.  To not have him there as a partner has to be disappointing for you. 

JONAS BJORKMAN:  Like I said, we don't know what's happening.  Once I go up to Delray and speak to the team, then I will know the situation. 

Q.  Have you played with Thomas in the past? 

JONAS BJORKMAN:  I have. 

Q.  How have some of your results been?

JONAS BJORKMAN:  You can check that out on the results. 

Q.  Are you comfortable if Mats wanted you to play singles and doubles, or you prefer to stick to the doubles, just your personal preference?

JONAS BJORKMAN:  That's also a question, if you ask it next week, that's fine.  But I can tell you if you check the past 10 years I've played Davis Cup, you see how many times I've played three days, so obviously that's not a problem for me. 

Q.  Can you talk about what it's like to face Andy's serve.  You've had some success in trying to counter it.  But what's it like to face? 

JONAS BJORKMAN:  It's the same like all other serves but a little bit harder. 

Q.  Can I ask you about your match today. 

JONAS BJORKMAN:  Yes, please (smiling). 

Q.  Well, it was an exciting match.  What do you think was the difference? 

JONAS BJORKMAN:  The difference was that we have been starting off a bit too slow over the last three matches and yesterday we nearly were out of the match losing.  We almost should have lost.  Sort of came back. Then same situation today, that they started really well.  We were a bit too slow, didn't make enough first serves.  We sort of had to dig really deep to find a way of coming back.  Then once we did that, we had opportunities to get back in the match and go to the third set. But we sort of didn't really play the right shots at the right time on the set points. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT