EUROCARD OPEN
October 30, 1998
Jonas Bjorkman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Is it perhaps fair to say that that was a quicker match than you had expected?

JONAS BJORKMAN: Well, you always expect every match to be very tough. You don't get any
easy matches in the game now. So definitely it went a little bit quicker than I expected.
But I am just happy that you get the matches like that sometimes.

Q. You didn't seem to have a great deal of trouble picking his service, not that it was
that good tonight. But you nailed it pretty much the whole match.

JONAS BJORKMAN: Well, I think we played a lot of times and I have been managing to
really serve quite good. If you manage to put the pressure on Greg, you know he is going
to try to hit it harder and that is what he was trying to do and that worked for me
perfectly because I got more opportunities on his second serve and it is a different
ballgame when he doesn't make his first serve as much as he normally does.

Q. What is the major goal of yours here now, to make the ATP Finals, to win the Davis
Cup or what?

JONAS BJORKMAN: Well, it is going to be tough to make the Hannover, I have to say that.
I have to win this week. I have to win Paris. And I have to win Stockholm. And that looks
on the paper quite tough, I have to say, but, you know, I still have the chance even if it
is not a big percentage. But I still got it. So I am definitely going to try to do it. But
I still - what I think I still need is to have Tim and Karol playing awfully -- play not
so well so they are not going to make any points. If that happens, that is going to be
great. But that is nothing that I am going to think about too much and I am just trying to
play solid tennis here for the weeks just left and hopefully have a strong finish like I
did last year. And then after that, then I will think about the Davis Cup.

Q. Right now it is much easier to win the Davis Cup?

JONAS BJORKMAN: No. I will not say that, but I haven't, you know, I don't have time to
think about that right now. I am going to get time to get motivated and concentrate on
that match later on. But I got this week here now and I got two other good weeks coming
up. And I played very well there last year both in Paris and Stockholm and that is
something that is much more important for me now.

Q. What prompted your association with Larry?

JONAS BJORKMAN: Well, we have been having this as a four week -- as a test here now to
see if it feels okay for both of us, working together. If that is going to work out -
which I think we both hope - hopefully, that could be something for next year full-time
after this test. So, so far it feels very comfortable to have Larry around me and he is
having a lot of experience. He is a player and a coach, and so definitely I hope that he
is having things that can help me to improve my game.

Q. Did you look for someone because you were missing a coach after being ten years with
the same one or you couldn't stay alone or what?

JONAS BJORKMAN: No, I was alone since Wimbledon and it felt really good. I didn't have
any plans to find someone for the rest of the year. It happened a few things and all of a
sudden Larry was available and I thought that was a good opportunity to see if he was
interested to help me out. And it turned out to be that way. So if he wouldn't show up and
Larry wasn't available, I would have gone by myself for the rest of the year.

Q. You must be easier to handle for him after he has been with McEnroe and Rios?

JONAS BJORKMAN: Well, I might have a little different personality then the other two
guys, but I still have some chances to improve skill that McEnroe had, so we will see what
happens. He might get me on that personality as well, who knows.

Q. Do you also think about the Top-10 to be in it at the end of the year and to save
the series of Swedes who made it?

JONAS BJORKMAN: Well, we had a Top-10 player since 1974, so I mean, it is maybe me in
the best position so far, but we still got Johansson and Enqvist behind me who maybe could
help me out if I am not going to make it. So hopefully we can continue that success we had
and hopefully one of us will be in the Top-10 to continue that.

Q. What do you think you have to do tomorrow against Kafelnikov? Will it be a similar
match?

JONAS BJORKMAN: It will be very different to this one. I think it will be much more
rallies from the back and I played him in Hannover last year which I lost and he played
extremely well at that time. So definitely going to be a tough one, but I am feeling very
relaxed and I got a lot of confidence for the moment. I have been playing very good before
this week and now I have been able to put it together even in this tournament so I am very
hopeful to go in tomorrow and see how it will be.

Q. What happened to -- you have something here. I don't want to be indiscrete of I
don't know if it is a kiss or anything.

JONAS BJORKMAN: Well, I don't know either. I asked myself that too. But I haven't found
the answer yet. But that is what happens, I don't know. That is something you have to live
with, I guess. It is going to be there for a couple more days. Hopefully it will be gone
after that.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT