DAVIS CUP - SWEDEN vs USA
November 28, 1997
Jonas Bjorkman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Congratulations, Jonas. 
 
JONAS BJORKMAN:  Thank you. 
   

Q.  Did you feel somewhere in the third set, what we call anyway in English, a "second-wind," a feeling that you could do it, recovery, or something like that?
 
JONAS BJORKMAN:  Well, it definitely was something like that because after the second set, I didn't really get the chance to play the points and didn't able to have the points going on.  It was too quick all the time.  He served a little bit better.  I was just a little bit too cold.  I was trying to work, but I didn't manage to get the rallies going.  So finally after that couple of big games, it felt like after I won my third set, it felt really good. 
   

Q.  Was there someplace in the third that it came to you?  Looked like you were a goner after that second set.
 
JONAS BJORKMAN:  When I got the break back, I had to feel that I was in the game again. 
   

Q.  Jonas, this crazy rally, 4-2 in the third set, you saved a point.  Do you think that changed it all; gave you a  boost.
 
JONAS BJORKMAN:  Well, it's definitely mentally better to win the point than lose it.  For me, that was the big turn around.  Probably for Michael, he felt that he should have won the point, and then he have to start over at deuce again.  That's some important points to win. 
   

Q.  You looked like you were having a little bit of trouble with your leg in the second set.  You were wearing a bandage, someone came out.  Was it hurting?
 
JONAS BJORKMAN:  No, no, no.  This is just - what can you call it - I've been having this muscle -- the muscle has been sore since Stockholm.  Just to feel better that I have this on.  After the second set, it started to get in my pants, and I was just trying to get it back. 
   

Q.  You could feel the pressure, Jonas, of being the No. 1 now on the Swedish team.  You looked nervous in the first set.
 
JONAS BJORKMAN:  Well, I think we both was kind of waiting to see who's going to start aggressive in the match.  Because we played last time in Hannover.  So I didn't feel that I was nervous.  It was more took me a little bit to get used to the court, the atmosphere and everything around it.  
   

Q.  Were you surprised that he served so badly?  28% the first set, only 40 something for the match.
 
JONAS BJORKMAN:  Well, he didn't serve so good against me in Hannover, as well.  I don't know.  My feeling is that he's been trying to play the serve off of my weakness, and that's a big key for mine mentally, that he's trying to change his game to beat me, instead of I'm the one who is trying to change to beat him.  So that's something he fix very good, trying to put a lot of first serves into my forehand especially. 
   

Q.  How would you describe the step you took at the end of the match, where you grabbed your right foot?
 
JONAS BJORKMAN:  Well, we're having two more to go.  That's just the first step of trying to win this tie (laughter). 
   

Q.  You played a lot of Davis Cup matches this year. How does this one rank for you in terms of your career in Davis Cup, your victory here?
 
JONAS BJORKMAN:  Well, definitely this is my best win ever in Davis Cup.  To beat Chang twice, two times in a row, to do it in Hannover and then to do it in the Davis Cup final, it's definitely the biggest win for me. 
   

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT