ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 15, 1997
Jonas Bjorkman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Jonas, how would you compare this match with the one you played against Pete in Paris a couple of weeks ago?

JONAS BJORKMAN: I think in Paris, I was much closer than I was today. Today he served extremely well. I was not able to put a lot of pressure on his service games. It seems like he had a lot of confidence. He was moving well. He was hitting a lot of winners from all kinds of places on the court. I didn't move as good as I've done the last couple days and the last weeks. But I think it was the fact that I played a lot, I was a little tight in my legs. Against Pete, you need to be top fit if you are going to have a chance; especially when he was playing so good today, there was nothing to do.
  

Q. I don't know exactly how many matches you played the last two or three weeks, but you played a lot obviously. First time in the season you play that much in this short period?

JONAS BJORKMAN: Well, not really. I've been having a couple of these periods because it's been going so well. Yeah, I mean, what can you say? I've been able to play good tennis for the whole year. I haven't had too many letdowns. I've been solid, been playing good tennis. Just nice to look back to when I'm done after Davis Cup.
  

Q. Are you going to take some rest before the Davis Cup Finals?

JONAS BJORKMAN: Yeah, definitely. I hope that I can have maybe four or five days totally off, because I need to recover, especially for my right leg here (indicating). It's been bothering me enough over the last two weeks. I'm going to go back home, not playing any tennis or nothing at all, and just have some treatment on it. Then hopefully, that will help me to be a hundred percent fit for the Davis Cup.
  

Q. So you're hoping not to be qualified for the Doubles Championship?

JONAS BJORKMAN: If we win?
  

Q. For the doubles final, I mean, in Phoenix?

JONAS BJORKMAN: Well, we're not going to go.
  

Q. So you're happy?

JONAS BJORKMAN: Well, right now it feels good just to be back home and have a few days off, definitely.
  

Q. Jonas, if someone said to you in January that your ranking would go from 65 up to the top three in the world, what would you have said to them?

JONAS BJORKMAN: Top three?
  

Q. Three, four.

JONAS BJORKMAN: I was just checking (laughter). That would be something new. No, definitely not. I definitely had a lot of hopes that I could do a better season than '96, but I think more -- my more normal goal is like going back to the Top 20, 30, like I've been before, and then hoping to win a title. So that was more maybe those kind of goals that I have. It's just been nice that it could be even better than that. It's just going to be nice to look back for the whole year, just looking forward for the next year.
  

Q. What do you think the effort today, the result today, would mean as far as Davis Cup's concerned?

JONAS BJORKMAN: Well, I don't know. If it's 1-7 now or 1-8. Doesn't matter if it's 1-7, 1-8, it's still going to be tough to beat Pete in Davis Cup. We're going to have great support from the crowd. It's sold out already. I think what I saw in Stockholm, the interest of tennis now is really hot in Sweden. I think that could help us to maybe come up with a big surprise.
  

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT