ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 14, 1997
Jonas Bjorkman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  That was kind of a nice Davis Cup warm-up for you. 
 
JONAS BJORKMAN:  Definitely, definitely (laughter). 
   

Q.  How did you find the opposition?
 
JONAS BJORKMAN:  The positions? 
   

Q.  How did you find the match?
 
JONAS BJORKMAN:  Well, since I beat Bruguera yesterday and Kafelnikov did his job, I saw this opportunity to just go in and have this win or lose match against Michael.  But I definitely felt that I've been playing really good the last couple of weeks; I've been improving a lot since we played last time.  I just really felt that I really have a big chance.  Just when I woke up today, I had so much energy, all the way up till the match started.  Then finally when I got onto the court, I just came in a good start, played aggressive, played some really good tennis, I think.  In this kind of big match, I don't think I played better before, in this type of match, with so much things around me, and how important it is.  So I think first it was just top tennis, and then second set was still good, but he managed to come back and play a little bit better.  I just felt -- still felt strong, even if he broke me back.  Just to finish the match out was the best feeling I had so far in my career. 
   

Q.  Really?
 
JONAS BJORKMAN:  Yeah.  The atmosphere here, everything around it.  With the way I played, I'm just extremely happy about it. 
   

Q.  Which is the next question.  How happy are you to be in the semifinals?
 
JONAS BJORKMAN:  Well, I can't show it more (laughter).  I mean, this is the best I had so far in my life.  I can't find words how happy I am.  I mean, I was coming here as a newcomer.  I knew it was going to be hard to be playing against the top eight guys.  In the same time, I felt if I played well, if I could keep up the tennis I played the last couple of weeks, I have a good chance. 
   

Q.  Jonas, yours is an incredible story.  Last year, 25  wins, 25 losses, 69 in the world.  This year you win more matches than anybody else.  You win your first three tournament titles, in the semis of the Masters; if you win this thing, you're No. 2 at the end of the year.  Why? What's changed?
 
JONAS BJORKMAN:  Why are you asking me?  I don't know (laughter).  Have you seen anything different on the court?  No, I think I didn't have any pressure at all when I went -- when I started this year.  I was more happy to stay healthy because I have a problem with my right knee.  I was just hoping to be healthy and try to do the better year than I have the last year.  Didn't put up any big goals; just normal, easy. And I mean, I think, all of the work I've done in the past year is paying off a little bit.  Then I think mentally I've been improving a lot as a person, both on the court and outside the court.  I think that helped me a lot.  Even my first title helped me mentally to improve this year. 
   

Q.  How do you feel about playing Pete?
 
JONAS BJORKMAN:  Well, it's just going to be so much fun going in tomorrow.  It's 1-6, so it doesn't look good.  But we played some good matches this year.  I beat him once this year on grass, and then I lost the other three  matches.  But it's been much better matches.  It's been quite tight matches.  I think I've come to him closer than I've been before.  He's having all the pressure.  I'm just going in as a big underdog.  But I'm going to fight all the way and see how long I can make it.  I'm going to try everything I can. 
   

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT