US OPEN
September 6, 1997
Jonas Bjorkman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Jonas, you were in pretty good position to break back in the fourth set. Had him
down Love-40. Then at 30-40, hit that ball that just dribbled over the net. Went on to
hold serve. Was that a key point, in your opinion? 
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: Well, I definitely think that. Unfortunately, at first we had a break
each. Then, unfortunately, I made probably my first bad game, service game. And then I
still came back with some great shots to Love-40. First one, second serve, I think I had
an opportunity. Especially the last one was something that, you know, was on his side
today. I may have been having days before in this week. It was just one of those days. I
think I hit a forehand that hit the tape and came back on my side as well. It's small
details; it's one or two points here and there. Unfortunately, it didn't go my way. 
 
Q. You've played him five times before today. Did he raise his game today?
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: I think it was about the same, like before. The matches, I think all
the matches we played has been looking about the same. Hasn't been any different really.
You know, we both playing very aggressive. I think it looks about the same. But he didn't
make too many errors today. He stayed tough. He was hanging in there. You know, he played
well. 
 
Q. One of the keys for you to win this match was service return. And he started out
very strong that first set, in which you didn't really score very many points off his
first serve. By the (inaudible) set, he barely won 50 percent of his serves. What happened
after that? Did you lose your eye for the ball, get tired?
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: I think it more up to Greg a little bit. Of course, I returned really
well in the second and the third. When Greg is up, he's more confident. When Greg is down,
he's, you know, more trying to think how to change to win the points off his serve. If you
could go up and be ahead of him all the time, it's much more pressure on him. I think he's
more trying to maybe think and change his serve, instead of keep going. So that's why I
thought, you know, if I could stay tough and keep returning like I did, you know, in the
fourth set there, maybe get back 4-All, I definitely would have had a good chance. 
 
Q. Did you change one of your shoes after the first set?
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: Yeah. What do you say, the insole, I don't know, it got loose. I had to
switch. 
 
Q. Why do you think there's so many players like yourself and Greg who are producing
now at the Grand Slams, the depth of the men's game? What do you think explains that?
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: Well, I think it's a time when some of the greatest players are on
their way to quit, like Edberg last year, now we have Stich and maybe Becker. You know,
it's a time that opportunities coming up for some new guys to play good tennis and do well
in the Grand Slams. That's something that I think is natural, is coming, time by time. 
 
Q. Do you think the Grand Slams, is there a different approach as opposed to Super 9s?
You won one. There's been a lot of different winners of these bigger events. Grand Slams
seem to be following that pattern. What is your feeling for that?
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: Well, it's getting tougher and tougher. I mean, the men's tournaments
has been improving a lot. Maybe before you had the top guys, you know, playing. There were
maybe 10, 15 percent chance that they lost early rounds of somebody ranked over 100 in the
world. Now you can lose to anyone in the top 200. If you're not playing well, not feeling
good, all the guys are so strong and hungry out there, that it's I think just a tougher
competition. 
 
Q. Were you aware before the match that Rusedski was not feeling well, and do you think
that affected, in any way, the way he played?
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: Well, if he felt really bad, I don't think he would have been winning
in five sets. You know, I had that problem in my match against Korda. You know, I've been
having a cold since last Saturday. I think, you know, I never, ever been complaining about
it. It's a time where you just go out and play. This is a Grand Slam event. I think, you
know, you just got to go out and play, don't have any excuses about anything else. You
know, this is too big for that, I think. So if you win a match in five sets, then you
can't be, I mean, really bad. Definitely not. 
 
Q. Jonas, you're both players who have made big strides up the rankings this year in
the singles. How would you assess how he's improved his game? 
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: Well, like I said before, he's been improving his baseline game. He's
not making so many more -- not too many unforced errors anymore. His level has been coming
up, you know. I think that's probably the difference. 
 
Q. How about yourself? Why do you think you've made such big strides in the last six
months?
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: I think it's about the same. We always been playing very aggressive,
both me and Greg. Now, you know, we still have a chance to win matches because we maybe
moving much better from the back. We also have been improving the baseline game. I think
it's about the same. 
 
Q. Jonas, in the fifth set, you had a volley, and you lost your bearings. You let the
ball come down, thought it was going to go outside. It was on the right sideline. At the
last minute you realized it was going to be good, but it was too late and you missed the
point. Did that signal some general uncertainty in your mind in the fifth set, nervousness
at all about your game?
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: At what time was that one? 
 
Q. Fifth set. You had a volley near the right sideline.
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: I know which one. No. I actually was not trying to get that one. Still,
I was not -- just I didn't take away my racquet enough. It just hit my racquet. I was for
sure it was going out. It was more you had the wind out there. You know, you just thought
it was supposed to go out. I'm not sure if it was supposed to go in or not. I had no time
to check that. That was nothing that I felt that I was nervous of. 
 
Q. If Michael wins the next semifinal, what would you say Greg's chances are against
him?
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: Well, you could ask him that one. I think he knows better what his
chances is in the final. I'm not trying to follow that too much now. I've lost a five-set
semifinal. You know, I'm not trying to go in here and say what his chance is to the final,
you know. 
 
Q. Without regard to the rankings, do you consider yourself today the No. 1 player in
Sweden?
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: No. Thomas been having a really tough year. He's been quite unlucky
with a few things. He was really unlucky here that he got a fever and everything. You
know, he lost his ranking. He's having a tough end of this year. We have a lot of points
coming up. That's something that maybe he will lose his ranking a little bit. I think with
his experience from the Davis Cup and everything, he's still, you know, in my eyes No. 1. 
 
Q. Are you No. 2 or No. 3?
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: Well, No. 2 sounds much better. 
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: That's fine with me. I'm still able to walk over to the other side. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT