US OPEN
September 4, 1997
Jonas Bjorkman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Jonas, have you seen many of Greg's matches here? 
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: No, not really. I think I had quite a busy schedule, to just
concentrate on my own game. You never really try to look at some other players, you know;
you just try to take one match at a time. You see what happens, who you going to play if
you win. 
 
Q. Jonas, is it better for you mentally to have to play doubles because you're not
thinking about your singles so much, just concentrating on strokes and all of that?
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: Well, I think for me it definitely is good. Like today, I had a doubles
match playing, then tomorrow again. So instead of just going and wait a little bit,
because now you on a roll, you've been playing for a long time. I think for me, it
definitely helps to have some doubles games going on. 
 
Q. Have you played once this year or was it last year you played Greg? You played him
several times in the past. When was the most recent one?
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: Good question.  
 
Q. The point I was going to make --
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: I'm not sure we played each other this year. Have we? 
 
Q. Whenever you did play last, since then, you've improved your game. You've both
improved your games very considerably since then.
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: Yes. 
 
Q. Do you think it will be possibly a different type of game than before?
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: Well, not really still. I think Greg is still playing the same type of
game, you know, with a big serve, playing serve and volley, still really aggressive. But I
think it's more that if his serve is not working that good, he don't have to be afraid of
staying back because he's been improving his game from the baseline. So that's maybe more
the difference with Greg, I think, since before. 
 
Q. Greg has been saying that he thinks it would be an advantage to be first semifinal
on, it would give more time for recovery for the final. What are your views on that?
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: Well, I haven't been thinking that far. So far I just been
concentrating on my doubles today, you know, I have the doubles tomorrow. I haven't really
been thinking of those plans, what's going to be the best. I think, you know, I'll be
playing some late matches, then be coming quite early the day after. So I think, you know,
whatever it's going to be for me, I think I'm used to both ways. 
 
Q. Presuming the names Milligan and Wilkinson are not two that you care to hear
repeated too often, the fact that you lost to two British players in the last two
Wimbledons, is that relevant to a situation like that or is it something you actually
think about?
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: No, not at all. That's on grass in England. I've been playing some
awful tennis there, unfortunately. You know, now we are on hardcourt. That's my best
surface. You know, if you start thinking like you lost to a German player before, when you
play a German player, I think, you know, you're not supposed to be on a tennis court. So
definitely not. 
 
Q. Jonas, what is the best strategy for returning a big lefty's serve?
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: Well, that's tough. I mean, the way I'm returning, I'm taking the ball
early, try to use the speed of the big service. If I can do that, I get a lot of pressure
back on the guys playing serve and volley. That's something that I'm trying to do. If I'm
returning good, it used to be successful. Hopefully the same again. 
 
Q. Who would you say the best returner is you ever faced? People talk about servers all
the time.
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: Agassi, probably when he was playing his best tennis, I think he was
returning extremely well. I think that's something that everyone has been improving a lot,
like two years ago you saw more guys playing serve and volley on both first and second.
For the moment, you have just maybe a couple guys who still can do that. That's something
that make -- that other guys been improving, especially their returns. 
 
Q. Have you always had a good return, your junior career, or something you've improved?
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: Yeah, that's always been one of my best shots. I've been trying to
improve. 
 
Q. Have you been working with anybody in particular, Jonas, the last 12 months or so?
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: No, not really. I have the same coach, same people back home in the
club that I'm practicing with, same doubles partner, same Swedes around me. That's about
the same. It's more that I made a few changes in my practice. I've been trying to have a
few more weeks off when I'm back home so I can have a few days off, have a really good
practice. I practice really hard before I go off again. A little bit mentally I've been
working also. 
 
Q. Jonas, how many different imitations can you do?
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: Well, I'm lucky because you can't get the tape from the Monte-Carlo
show we have every year. I think if you get that one, it's not going to be good because
you're going to see a few of the players there. I can do quite a few. 
 
Q. Can you do Greg?
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: No. No chance (laughter). It's more the guys that you can see a few
things, what I do all the time. I haven't really looked at Greg in that way. Also
something that's tough, he's a lefty. It's easier to imitate a guy who is right-handed. 
 
Q. Who is the favorite that you do?
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: Well, I think Jarryd is in big trouble. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT