US OPEN
September 3, 1997
Jonas Bjorkman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Did you feel something special on the court about Petr when you were playing?

JONAS BJORKMAN: Not for the moment, no. I think we both were fighting very hard to win
the first set and even in the beginning of the second set and I think when I hold my serve
to 5-2, it looked like he all of a sudden started to look a little different with his
face. I don't know. So, I didn't know what it was definitely. I was surprised that it was
only a cold and, you know, I also got a cold. But, that is the way it is and I mean, you
always like to win the final point and on a matchpoint, but like today, he retired and
that is too bad. But I am still through and I am real happy about that.

Q. How does it feel to be in the semis of the US Open?

JONAS BJORKMAN: It feels very, very good. It is a special feeling that I never felt
before, because I have never been there. So, it is really a great feeling for me. I have
been in the quarterfinal before. But, I think to be in the semifinal is really much bigger
step to go up. I am really going to sleep good tonight, definitely.

Q. If you had to choose any point of your game that you really improved last month,
which one would you choose?

JONAS BJORKMAN: Well, I think it is a few things that I have been improving. I have
been improving my serve, but maybe the big key is that I am moving very good, and after I
am moving very good, I have been improving my baseline game to really be strong on the
back and really work hard to win the points. That definitely helped me in a lot of matches
this year.

Q. Who is your favorite in the tournament now?

JONAS BJORKMAN: Well, I mean, of course I want to have myself as the favorite, but I
think definitely the guys who are still in the tournament is very strong and the next
opponent, Greg Rusedski, has been playing extremely well here and he has been improving
his game a lot and he was in the quarterfinal in Wimbledon so, he is having a lot of
confidence in playing these Grand Slams. Hopefully, you know, we are going to have a good
match and then we will see what happens, if I am the winner or he is. But got to wait and
see 'til Saturday. I am going to take this match now and really feel good about that.

Q. Will you try to imitate him tomorrow?

JONAS BJORKMAN: No, I can't imitate him and I have a few other guys that I have done
some imitations on, but that could be maybe after --

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT