GREAT AMERICAN INSURANCE ATP CHAMPIONSHIP
August 4, 1997
Jonas Bjorkman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Problems with the first serve. Anything with the ball? 
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: Just one of those days. No excuses. I just served really bad. That was
probably the worst I have ever -- worst percentage I have had in a match, I think. I just
came wrong with the rhythm the whole match. I never find the way to get back in it. 
 
Q. What do you think about Rios in this match?
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: He won the match. I don't know. You have to ask him if he played good
enough or if he felt confident. 
 
Q. But how do you think he was as an opponent?
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: He was the same like all the other guys. Doesn't matter who you play.
It is the same match for me and no matter if I play Pete Sampras or if I play Marcelo Rios
or if I play someone over 100 in the ranking, it is the same type of game with me. I have
got to go in and do my job and if that is good enough, then it is good. 
 
Q. You are usually a pretty good server? 
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: Yeah, I have been serving well this year. Been feeling quite good on
the practice, but I don't know. I had a bad day with my serve, I guess. 
 
Q. You beat him the last time that you played?
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: Key Biscayne, yeah. 
 
Q. Was there any difference in -- what about your confidence knowing that you had
beaten him?
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: I felt even if it was a tough draw for both of us, I think, I still
felt quite confident to go into the match with beating him the last time we played. But, I
don't want to have it as an excuse, but I am having a little cold and I think the heat
took me down physically a little bit. And, after that I was serving that it didn't help me
to win this match. I needed a few free points in my games, that would have helped me, I
think. So I had to work a little bit too hard today. I think he started to serve -- I
didn't think he -- he served so good as well. I think he was struggling after the end of
the first set, after 4-1, then he started to serve a little bit better and I had 15-40 at
4-3, I think, and at that time he came up with some good serves again. I think that maybe
saved him to only play two sets today.  
 
Q. There is no trash-talking in tennis the way there is in other sports, is there?
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: What do you mean? 
 
Q. When you come out on the court you don't say, "Hey, I got you last time, I am
going to get you this time" like they do in basketball?
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: We show more respect to each other (laughs). It is not the same game.
In basketball you can go back and forth and your goal -- I mean, you try to go with one
guy and then when you change again, then you can have a little chat. But, in tennis, you
never have that chance. It is maybe in the changeovers, but you are so concentrate on your
match, so you never really get that opportunity. 
 
Q. But, you know, when you walk out on the court you don't give each other --
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: No. It all depends. If you are really, really good friends -- I mean, I
am a good friend of Marcelo, but let us say if I play a Swedish guy, which is my best
friends, it might be a few quick words. But, nothing, really -- no, I wouldn't say
spectacular. Maybe it would be one or two words, but not too much. 
 
Q. Most players say they don't really know Marcelo. 
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: You maybe don't know him as good as other guys, but I have a lot of
respect for him. He is a good tennis player and even if people think that he is kind of
strange with his attitude and cocky or whatever, you know, he never -- I never had any
problem with him. He has always been coming up and says "hi" to me and we have
been practicing, so, you know, I don't know why I should have a different way of thinking.
So, he is friendly to me and I am friendly back to him. 
 
Q. As a player do you consider him a very sort of, you know, I don't know how to say it
in English, but --
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: You have to say it in English. 
 
Q. Do you think he is a good opponent, I mean, somebody you can fear when you get to --
when you know that you are going to play with him, something that really worries you?
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: Well, of course. He is top 10 in the world so why shouldn't you have a
respect to a guy who is top 10 in the world. I mean, if you are on that kind of level,
then you have a lot of respect for the player that you play. But the way it works, these
days, you can beat anyone and you can lose to anyone. So, some guys you maybe have more
respect to when you are walking on the court, but you still feel that you can beat anyone.
So it is nothing really special. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT