XXVI OLYMPIC GAMES
July 23, 1996
Jonas Bjorkman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How close was this in your mind?

JONAS BJORKMAN:   Close what?


Q. To going the other way.  I mean, obviously, two tiebreaks.

JONAS BJORKMAN:   Yeah, I think I should have won -- definitely won one of the two sets.  I had so many opportunities, so, you know, definitely should have won one of these sets.  And I think if it goes to three sets, I think I have a little advantage.  I am a little bit more fit than he is for the moment.


Q. How far is he from playing his best tennis?

JONAS BJORKMAN:   I don't know, really, but he is not the same Andre like I have seen the last time I met him in Australian Open, so he probably needs to maybe get little bit better to get up to that standard.


Q. Anything in particular that is different about his game right now?

JONAS BJORKMAN:   I don't know.  I think he is not moving that good like he did before.  That is why he is missing little bit more when he did before also, so I don't know.  I don't know if that is the key.  I don't want to talk shit about Andre, but.... 


Q. No.  He says he is not playing his best.

JONAS BJORKMAN:   That is -- I don't know.  I see it that way.


Q. What happened to turn the first set around?  You were up 4-1.

JONAS BJORKMAN:   I was up 4-1, but, you know, he started to pick up a few good returns in that game, and that side was difficult to serve, you have the sun right up there, so I maybe didn't get the same power like I had in the other starting service games, and then I finally got back again and then, you know, I should have won the first set, but that is the way it is.


Q. You came in today, I assume, thinking you had a good shot after what happened in Australia?

JONAS BJORKMAN:   Oh, definitely.  I had a tough five set match against him there and even if I haven't played a singles matches for a long time, I still felt pretty good on the practice and I was hoping to do a good match and win the match, but unfortunately it didn't -- it went the other way.


Q. What did you think of Andre's outfit including his long sleeve shirt?

JONAS BJORKMAN:  Yeah, it is different.


Q. Would you like to play three sets in that weather in long sleeves?

JONAS BJORKMAN:   I haven't tried it.  It might don't  have to be that bad like it looked, but I rather play in the shirt I have.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT