THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 24, 1995
Jonas Bjorkman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 GREG SHARKO:  Reaching the semi finals Jonas will be expected
to hit the top 30 next week which will be a career high for him.
 Questions for Jonas.

 Q.  First set was obviously fun. After that was a bit of a
lesson or what.

 JONAS BJORKMAN:  I don't know if it was a lesson.  First set
I enjoyed the first set.  It was good fun to play.  But I was
I had a tough match against Braasch and he is playing his game
is tough and I think after that I was struggling with my technique
and against Mats I was more like a match that I was fighting mentally
and I came back strong and that is why I won that match, I guess.
 And yesterday and today I haven't been feeling so well when I
have been practicing I haven't been hitting the ball so well like
I have been doing before.  I don't know.  When it goes wrong against
Pete, then you start thinking a lot and at that time it is not
so easy to play Pete.

 Q.  Having to play an extra match here because you are not
seeded and spend can another couple of hours on the court.  Do
you think that was a factor tonight build up of fatigue.

 JONAS BJORKMAN:  I don't think so.  I am used to playing a lot
of matches.  I enjoy to play a lot of matches, so I think that
is okay for me.  When you play Pete, then you just have to you
have to play well if you are going to have a little chance and
I didn't do that the second and third sets, so...

 Q.  Do you think the results here might have any bearing on
who might play in the Davis Cup.

 JONAS BJORKMAN:  If I would have a chance to for the singles?


 Q.  Yes.

 JONAS BJORKMAN:  Maybe not if August school check results after
the third set.  I don't know if I had a bad preparation looking
at the golf today when Alfred son was plus 18 after 2 rounds,
so it was like my first set, then the next two rounds was bad,
manager Larsson is playing well for the moment he is probably
the No. 1 in Sweden right now and he is the one who has been challenge
both Andre and Pete for the moment, so he will play and it is
tough to take away Stefan, I guess, he have a lot of experience
and I think he have won seven or eight matches against Muster
so his game is good against Muster, so I would prepare for the
doubles.

 Q.  After having won the first set did you hope for Sampras
might be getting a bit shaky and nervous and why do you think
he didn't?

 JONAS BJORKMAN:  Yeah, is why he didn't is because he is No.
1 in the world.  He has been there before.  He has been losing
a lot of matches when he has been losing the first set, so he
is used to that, I mean, he is just keep playing and, you know,
waiting for me to make the mistakes, so that is not a big surprise.
 It is more that it is a surprise that if I can keep playing as
well as I did in the first set.

 Q.  I don't know that is do you get the feeling with the other
players that now with Sampras an Agassi there is a little gap
or a big gap from the top.

 JONAS BJORKMAN:  You mean, these two guys from our guys?

 Q.  Yes.

 JONAS BJORKMAN:  If you look at their results for this year you
can see that these two guys are probably -- yeah, the one who
has been dominating the men's tennis right now.  The winning the
final in the Australian Open and they have been in the finals
in the other tournaments here, so they are probably are a little
bit better than the other guys for the moment, but hopefully it
will be a few other guys who are coming back now so maybe it will
be closer later on.

 Q.  Did it take even Pete's serve about a foot or so insight
the baseline, is this a technique you use in all your matches
for.

 JONAS BJORKMAN:  That is what I normally do when I play my matches,
so I feel that good to take the ball early, so that is my game.


 Q.  Did it give you confidence to see Magnus doing well against
Agassi too this afternoon?

 JONAS BJORKMAN:  Yeah, it always helps a little with it to see
that Andre and Pete is not impossible to beat, so of course it
gave me a little bit of positive thinking that, you know, if you
play well, then you have a chance to win, so, a little bit it
is helped, yeah.

 Q.  What about Mats Wilander you played him yesterday.  Could
you think there is this gap because you doesn't play as fast as
you do or other guys do?

 JONAS BJORKMAN:  What do you mean?

 Q.  That this playing not that fast?

 JONAS BJORKMAN:  That his game is not so fast?

 Q.  Yeah, might hinder him from really going back to the top
30, maybe.

 JONAS BJORKMAN:  You never know with Mats. Right now he is maybe
practicing more golf than tennis, so he is enjoying his game and
he have fun, so if he want to really try and try to go up to the
top again, he may be will have a chance to reach the top 30, but
I am not sure if he is so motivated for that.

 Q.  Are you among the Swedes who will play Coral Springs.

 JONAS BJORKMAN:  No.  I enjoy my I will enjoy the tournaments
in the states I have my best results here, but I have to be in
Europe a little bit to play the tournaments there also.

 Q.  Until this year you have been better known for doubles.
 You had some good results second half of last year.  Had you
set any singles target ranking-wise this year or are you now exceeding
it perhaps already or what.

 JONAS BJORKMAN:  Sharko said here I probably would reach the
top 30, so that was the goal I had for this year, so just have
to put up a new goal and try to reach the top 20 for the end of
this year now and think positive; work hard and keep going and
then hopefully you can do that.

 GREG SHARKO:  Anything else?

 End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT