THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 23, 1995
Jonas Bjorkman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.  Were you thinking it was over?

 JONAS BJORKMAN:  No.  Not over, but it was not so far away at
least, so -- but it happened before that I lost matches when I
was up 5-2, so I was still thinking that little hope that I could
make a turnover also.

 Q.  What did you say to yourself; I have to attack more; I
have to --

 JONAS BJORKMAN:  No, I think I changed my game to more just keep
the ball in and if Mats want to win the points then he have to
attack and go up to the net, so it was more that I stay back and
try to put the ball in.

 Q.  The ball was in, but not by far, you played a lot of lines?

 JONAS BJORKMAN:  Yeah, but that is how the game goes, I think,
everyone is playing close to the lines and if you want to win
the points; then you have to go for it.  And if you put it just
in the middle of the court, then you probably going to lost the
point, so you have to go for it.

 Q.  When you were growing up, did you know Mats?

 JONAS BJORKMAN:  No, I just met him a few times.  He knows my
dad well and his brother has been playing ice hockey with my dad,
so it is more that when I have -- when he has been home and I
have been same time, I have been with my dad, he has been coming
and saying hello most.  When I start to play better and coming
up on the Tour now, then I know him as good as I know all the
Swedish players.

 Q.  When you play Mats, do you feel he cannot hurt you with
his power?

 JONAS BJORKMAN:  If he cannot hurt me?

 Q.  Yeah, the feeling we have from the stand that he has not
enough power to hurt anybody from the baseline except waiting
and passing?

 JONAS BJORKMAN:  Yes, that is maybe true, when he played in '88
he probably had a little bit more power and now he may be have
to wait more that the opponent is making more mistakes and --
but, you know, he is still not giving away so many points.  I
mean, it is the same like it was when he played before, you know,
he never missed any easy points and it is tough to play Mats because
you know that he always put the ball back and especially his passing
shot is still there like it was '88, '89.

 Q.  Were you a little like expecting to play early; did that
bother you?

 JONAS BJORKMAN:  It was quite hard.  You were prepared when Sabatini
had 5-1; you were warming up a lot; you were out there running
and try to be prepared for the match and then everything changed
and you have to go there and wait and try to eat again after they
split sets, so it is maybe not so used to it that it goes like
that; that it takes a long time, so it was tough to keep the concentration
for the match, but I think it was still good.

 Q.  I came in late, forgive me if this has already been asked.
 How do you compare this win over Mats to your win over Stefan
Edberg?

 JONAS BJORKMAN:  I think the match against Stefan was more --
that was one of my best wins, I think, because I played almost
100% perfect and today I think both me and Mats were struggling
a lot and it was tough with the wind and I think the win against
Stefan, I think, that one is, at least, one or two steps higher
for me.

 Q.  What has been for you to be so far in a big tournament
like that, after the U.S. Open, did you feel at any time that
it was only one time that you can succeed being in a big thing?

 JONAS BJORKMAN:  That it should only happen once?

 Q.  Oui, tres bien.

 JONAS BJORKMAN:  No, I have been playing a lot of the top guys
and I have been close most of the time and I know that I have
a good game to go up high on the ranking, so that was -- I mean,
of course, a surprise that I made a good result there, but I have
to say that I have been waiting for that result because I think
I have been working hard and I know that I have a good game to
go up high on the rankings, so...

 Q.  How will you celebrate your birthday now?

 JONAS BJORKMAN:  I will probably have some treatment because
I play tomorrow again, so, but then we are going to -- we go out
and have a nice dinner and try to relax a little bit and then
it is a new day tomorrow and I have to be prepared to play a good
match again.

 Q.  I know you have been disappointed with your play in doubles
with Jan.  Does this success you have been having in singles kind
of make up for your disappointments in doubles?

 JONAS BJORKMAN:  Yeah, that helps a lot.  So far we have just
been winning one match except the Davis Cup win and we lost a
little bit of the confidence in doubles, and it is always good
to have a lot of good wins in singles because that keep you still
up there and thinking positive and that is maybe the problem for
Jan he has been losing a little bit in the singles also, so he
is maybe a little bit negative at the moment, so that is maybe
the change between us, but it is so close in doubles and we just
have to keep going and hopefully we have a big win sooner or later
and maybe we are back to the play that we did last year.

 Q.  You guys aren't thinking about splitting up; are you?

 JONAS BJORKMAN:  No, we are not going to do that.  We are so
good friends and we know that we can play well and it is not --
I mean, if you win four tournaments; plus the world champions,
then it is not the problem that we are not working good together.
 It is more that we lost the confidence a little bit and that
is important in doubles.

 Q.  Do you think your experience in the singles court is going
to help you with your doubles?

 JONAS BJORKMAN:  Yeah, at least me, we still have a lot of confidence
when I do so well in singles, so I will try my best to push up
Jan to the performance he can play for and then I hope we are
going to do well the next time in Davis Cup or even after that
in Asia.

 Q.  Has your dad learned anymore English since he has been
here?

 JONAS BJORKMAN:  He is at least not afraid to talk English even
if it is not as good as some other dads or, maybe, but it was
-- they didn't learn English in school at his time, so he is trying
his best at least.

 Q.  What are your thoughts on the semis?

 JONAS BJORKMAN:  Never played Medvedev before and if Pete wins,
I played him twice and I lost last week against him and it looks
to find his game that he had last year, so it will be tough, but
I played well last week and I was up a break in second set and
I had some good chances to take the second set, so I am the underdog
and I have everything to win.  I am just going to go for it and
see how long that can work.

           End of FastScripts..... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT