WIMBLEDON
July 5, 2007
Jonas Bjorkman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Jonas Bjorkman.   
  
  Q.  You were clearly very unhappy in the third set with the call from the umpire.  What happened?   
 JONAS BJORKMAN:  He made a horrendous call.   
  
  Q.  Have you had some history with that umpire?  You said it happens quite a lot with him.   
 JONAS BJORKMAN:  There's a lot of guys out there who's trying sometimes to make sure that everyone can see them on the court when everything goes well.  You don't have to interrupt the game.  All of a sudden they try to be in the picture.   
 133 mile-an-hour serve wide on the far end, you shouldn't even go in there.  He felt he needed to do that.  That's just unfortunate.   
  
  Q.  Is it just umpires in general?   
 JONAS BJORKMAN:  No.  Sometimes -- normally they say they can't go in on the far side, then all of a sudden they do things like this.  It's just not -- you know, you either stick to your line, what you normally should, what you normally say, that you can't go in there.   
 All of a sudden they do this.  Just keep a straight line and do what you normally do.   
  
  Q.  Do you think Hawk-Eye, or possibly the bigger courts, would help that?   
 JONAS BJORKMAN:  Obviously it's all about money, I guess.  It's not cheap to have Hawk-Eye.  But, you know, two courts is maybe not enough in a Slam.  It maybe should be at least maybe two years.  You know action it's always tough.   
  
  Q.  Is that frustrating in a big match like this?   
 JONAS BJORKMAN:  No, because you're used to it.  It's not often you play with Hawk-Eye.  You're used to the conditions all the time.   
  
  Q.  What does he have to do well to trouble Nadal?   
 JONAS BJORKMAN:  He got a perfect game to beat Nadal.  He's hitting the ball hard.  He can hit winners from every position.  Serves well.  He beat him before, so I think he probably has a pretty good game plan.   
 But, you know, he got a massive game.  You know, he's a great frontrunner.  When he gets up an early break, he's very tough to play.  You know, I think he has good chances.   
  
  Q.  Do you think the brief rain break affected you in the fourth set?   
 JONAS BJORKMAN:  No.  I already lost my serve to 2-Love.  Once we came out, he came out with some big shots.  I was just trying to stay in as long as I could.  But unfortunately he was just too strong for the day.   
  
  Q.  I notice you didn't shake the umpire's hand.  Is that the first time?   
 JONAS BJORKMAN:  No, it happens a lot of times.  It happens in many matches if you watch.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT