U.S. OPEN
September 4, 1994
Jonas Bjorkman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. How do you feel? 
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: I feel great.  
 
Q. What worked for you today; how come you could beat him? 
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: I don't know. I was serving -- serve and volley was, I think, the key
for my game. I was really solid in my serve and volley, and never did any easy mistakes.
And in the third, I finally got my returns going also; then everything was there.  
 
Q. Can you play any better than you played tonight? 
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: I don't know. It was hard conditions, and Stefan didn't play his best
tennis, maybe. And I think it-- I can have a little bit, but not much, not yet.  
 
Q. Does it mean a lot to you to beat Stefan Edberg? 
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: Yes. He's the best player in Sweden for the moment, and he's one of the
best players that's been on the tour for a long time. So this is great for me.  
 
Q. You say "for the moment;" do you think you may take that title one day? 
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: Yeah. I mean, you just have to -- you always have to think that you're
going to make it. But there's a lot of good players, but of course, I will try for it.  
 
Q. Stefan said that you and he practice together. How often is that, and have you
gotten to know him through that? 
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: He said it was like five or six years now, and so for me, it was when I
was a junior, end of my junior and that was a great opportunity for me to learn me, and
give me a lot of experience for that, and then -- I mean, now he lives in the same town
and when we meet up together, we try to practice, but normally, we used to have the same
schedule, but it could be different. But at home at the same time we practice.  
 
Q. Does that help you to know his game? 
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: Yeah, of course, and when you play a player who you've never seen
before, then you're really not sure how to play him. And I know Stefan really well, and I
know how he plays and, of course, it tells me a lot.  
 
Q. What was your plan of attack, then, going in to play him? 
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: I've been playing well the last week here before, also and I had a lot
of confidence, and I was thinking that I just go for it lately, in the beginning, and try
to be aggressive and go for the big shots and I was lucky today and I had a lot of net and
over, but that's the way you have to beat these guys but that was good.  
 
Q. Is this the biggest win of your career? 
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: Yes, I beat Sergi Bruguera the week in Schenectady but, I think this is
much bigger for me because this is Center Court and Grand Slam and third round and
especially when I play Stefan also. So this is the best I've done, I think.  
 
Q. Was he a role model for you growing up? 
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: I don't know, Wilander is coming from the same club and maybe Wilander
was the big idol in the beginning when he won the French Open like that, but the game I
play is exactly -- it's more like Stefan's game, so I've always been looking at him, how
he plays and try to do the same thing.  
 
Q. How important do you think -- since you know Stefan, how important do you think it
was for him to do well here? 
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: Yeah, I mean he's not been having as good a year as he normally used to
have in Grand Slams. He's been losing early in Paris and Wimbledon, but he was for sure
hoping to do well here. He's been winning couple years ago here and he was hopefully going
for the title here.  
 
Q. When you practice with him, who wins? 
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: Ha?  
 
Q. When you practice with him, do you actually play matches, in the past? 
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: Yeah, we play practice sets and I've been-- few times I've been winning
couple sets and few times I got really killed and that's the way it goes and it's been
both sides.  
 
Q. Do you notice any difference in his game this year from what it was a year or two
ago, and if so, what was the difference? 
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: I don't know, he may be losing -- his power is maybe the same in the
serve, but maybe his spin is not the same as he had before. Couple years ago I said he had
the best second serve on the tour and maybe he's not having this big power in his serve
anymore. I don't know, could be the key, maybe.  
 
Q. You were really effective in passing him when you would come in off of his serve.
Was that one of your key plans going into the match? 
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: Yeah, I've been practicing here now two days and practice a little bit
going to the court and trying to take the ball on the returns and try to, like, maybe
scare him that I'm coming in at the net, and that was working good today.  
 
Q. Do you think he's fall in the first set was a factor in -- 
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: His?  
 
Q. His fall, when he fell down in the first set. 
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: Maybe. We just-- maybe he lost his rhythm a little bit and-- but he
still made some good returns in that game, so, could maybe have been a little bit like
that.  
 
Q. Did you talk at all last week or last couple days before the match? 
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: Actually, we haven't seen each other after I won my second round
because he lives in Long Island. I think he's been practicing out there and he's trying to
get away from the press and media, maybe, I don't know, to concentrate on the match, and
so, we never saw each other before we came to the locker room.  
 
Q. You said you live in the same town; what town is that? 
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: Vaxjo.  
 
Q. Spell it? 
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: V A X J O.  
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT