WIMBLEDON
July 2, 2007
Jonas Bjorkman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  How difficult was it to keep focus with the various rain delays? 
 JONAS BJORKMAN:  Well, it's never easy.  I mean, Saturday was a long day, yesterday was sort of kind of a relief to have a little break, and today it didn't look like it was going to start, and once we start, then it's obviously a lot harder because when you go back and forth like that, you're warming up a lot of times and trying to prepare.  But at least I got a lot of experience from it in the past, and I managed to keep myself in good spirit. 

 Q.  Did it amuse you, the buildup to this match, everybody focusing on your respective ages, you and Wayne, the combined age?  How old do you actually feel? 
 JONAS BJORKMAN:  Well, I don't feel like 35 (smiling).  I feel much younger, and I think I'm moving great to be 35.  You know, it's not a problem.  There's always going to be talk like that, but that's just the way it is and you have to accept it.  I take it positive.  You know, it's great to still be doing that well at my age and at this stage of my career.  So I'm just pleased and trying to enjoy it. 

 Q.  Do you think that gives you -- perhaps not against Wayne but against other guys, does that give you a distinct advantage, especially in games like this where there's rain delays, the experience that you've got? 
 JONAS BJORKMAN:  I'm not sure.  I think most of the guys who are here in the second week have been playing several Wimbledons before, so most of them are handling it quite well. 
 Then obviously there's going to be some who's a little bit more frustrated.  But I hope I can benefit from it and try to take advantage of it at least. 

 Q.  What is it about this place and this surface that brings out the best in you year after year after year? 
 JONAS BJORKMAN:  Well, you know, this is my favorite tournament, I think, just got so much history here, the tradition, the atmosphere, got so many things that just so unique for this tournament.  Once you just come in here, you really get fired up and you get that little extra energy and you really want to do well here. 
 And then obviously grass has always been suitable for my kind of game, as well, which always helps. 

 Q.  I think I'm right in saying Wayne was going to make this tournament his last tournament? 
 JONAS BJORKMAN:  Yes. 

 Q.  You've obviously got no thoughts in that respect? 
 JONAS BJORKMAN:  No, not at this point.  I'm trying to take one year at a time, and it depends a little bit how my ranking goes, how the body is holding up.  But obviously right now I feel great.  I'm pleased to be in the fourth round again, second Slam in a row, so I'm hoping to continue.  But you always have to wait and see; a lot of things can happen.  I'm trying to hang in a little bit more. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT