NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS v MAGIC
May 21, 2010
Marcin Gortat
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You cause the most problems with Garnett because of your reach?   
 MARCIN GORTAT: I think so. Garnett and obviously Rasheed, who can shoot three-pointers. He's going to pop most of the time. But we trying to be ready for everybody. They've got four really good big men. Each one of them can do different things. We have to be ready for all of them.   
  
  Q. Who has more pressure on them, Boston because they feel like they have to deal with a win at home, or us, because we're down 0-2?   
 MARCIN GORTAT: I would say on us, because, you know, we losing 0-2. Definitely we have to win the next game. If we're going to lose then, it's going to be a real uncomfortable situation. I would say more pressure on us.   
  
  Q. Is there a sense of giving them the championship or bust mentality? It's been here all season, and that's why they matched your offer, that's why they made all these off-season moves. How important is this weekend?   
 MARCIN GORTAT: It's probably the most important weekend in the season so far. I don't try to think about this, you know, because they matched my offer and that's the most important season and probably I got to do a lot of things. I'm just going to do what the coach wants from me, and I'm going to do what the team needs. Go over there and fight on defense and try to get as many rebounds as I can and hustle plays.   
  
  Q. With the time off you guys have been able to rest and look at things. Are you chomping at the bit to get out there?   
 MARCIN GORTAT: I was thinking about a lot of things. And honestly, I'm ready to play. We got a bit more than 30 hours, and I'm definitely ready to step out and just do everything that's possible to win. I think you can feel the atmosphere in the locker room. A lot of guys is focused. We stopped fooling around a lot. We know that this game is going to decide about everything.   
  
  Q. Is not fooling around, being tight, is it better -- do you guys play better when you're relaxed, happy, tranquil or better to be serious or --  
 MARCIN GORTAT: I would say we're not fooling around because we have something on our minds and we have on our minds that next game, because we have to win the next game. So this is the most important thing.   
 And the last three days were really tough. Honestly, after the first game I couldn't sleep. I was just thinking how the hell we lost the game. That was just my concern. I'm telling you right now, if they are going to beat us in the Game 3, they better --  
  
  Q. My point is if you guys are serious and focused and thinking about this, does that make it harder to be fluid athletically? Or is it better when you're happy? Which is better for playing?   
 MARCIN GORTAT: I don't know. You have to ask different guys. I'm not fooling around. I'm just trying to stay focused for each game, the same focus the same way and try to prepare for the game the same way. I just have, let's say, one face all the time. You have to ask different guys.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT