AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: TIGERS v RANGERS
October 9, 2011
Ryan Raburn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: We're going to start with a few questions for Ryan Raburn. Alex will be in shortly.   
  
  Q. Jim Leyland just informed us about Magglio's situation being out for the series. You guys have rebounded from a lot this year. Is this just one more thing that you have to deal with?   
     RYAN RABURN: Yes, I think it's been kind of an ongoing thing with some guys. You have to deal with injuries.   
     I think with us the way we're in position here in the postseason having guys being able to step off the bench and be able to contribute. We'll expect that from still from our same guys.   
  
  Q. Were you guys aware last night of the seriousness of his injury and what was the response with you guys to the news?   
     RYAN RABURN: Well, I kind of had an idea. I saw him in the training room in between the rain delay as far as how bad it was, nobody really knew how bad it was.   
     We just knew he probably wasn't going to come out. That was the first I heard he was going to be out for the series. That was unfortunate for us. He's a veteran presence in the lineup we'll definitely miss. We'll need other guys to step up like we have done all year.   
  
  Q. Ryan, I know you guys had to encounter an abbreviated schedule losing your off day during the New York series. Because this is a seven-day series is there any different feeling or a feeling of here we go again at all? Having to stay here an extra day and go back to Detroit without the off day?   
     RYAN RABURN: I think it's one of those days. That's part of the game, the elements you have to deal with. I don't think we're bothered by it too much. We just lose that off day coming up Monday.   
     But we'll -- we dealt with it the first series. Hopefully we deal with it this series. Hopefully it works out to our advantage like it did last time.   
  
  Q. Jim Leyland was just in here and said not to feel sorry for you guys. Do you feel sorry for you guys?   
     RYAN RABURN: We're in the American League Championship Series. I don't know how sorry we can actually feel. This is a great experience, especially for myself. This is my first time. I'm enjoying every minute of it.   
     Yesterday is gone, that first game. We would have loved to have get the first one out. We'll be ready tomorrow and hopefully we can get a W.   
  
  Q. I'm talking about Magglio, the injuries.   
     RYAN RABURN: He -- yeah, it's part of the game. It's unfortunate, but it's just something we have to deal with and try to get by.   
  
  Q. With Delmon being out and now Magglio, does that increase your playing time or your presence in the lineup, do you think?   
     RYAN RABURN: I hope. I want to play. This is a big series. Losing Delmon really, really hurts a little bit, the way he's been playing and the way he did in the first series. And then losing Magglio.   
     Yeah, I think it was -- I don't make the lineup out, but I think so. Hopefully I'll get more playing time and be able to contribute.   
  
  Q. What was it like last night when you guys were watching those series of power arms they were running in from the bullpen?   
     RYAN RABURN: It was fun, actually. Their bullpen, they have a great bullpen. Our bullpen is great also. Their guys came in and shut us down. Our guys came in and shut them down.   
     All in all, I thought it was a great game. Unfortunately we were on the losing side. Yeah, definitely they have some pretty good arms coming out.   
     THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much for coming in. We appreciate it.   
     RYAN RABURN: No problem.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT