NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: BRUINS v CANUCKS
June 4, 2011
Alexander Edler
Manny Malhotra
Henrik Sedin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
  
  Q. Manny, can you end the suspense and tell us if you're playing tonight?   
 MANNY MALHOTRA: It's gone from day to day to game-time decision right now. I'm honestly not trying to send you guys on a wild goose chase. That's just the nature of the situation right now.   
  
  Q. At this point in the day, do you feel healthy enough to play, well enough to play?   
 MANNY MALHOTRA: I feel really good, yeah. I felt good yesterday skating. Felt good this morning. So, again, hopefully I'll continue throughout the day.   
  
  Q. Manny, what were you looking for from your game to give you an indication that you're ready?   
 MANNY MALHOTRA: It's tough to say. Obviously being good in the circle is going to be a big part of what I do. It's always tough to say how your legs are going to be responding in a game. I felt good the last few days of skating as far as my wind goes.   
 I think early on, things we're going to talk about if I go, is just simplicity, getting my feet moving, getting pucks in, making smart decisions with the pucks, keeping things real basic for right now.   
  
  Q. If you do play, what do you expect to feel in terms of the emotions, whether it's first games in different situations, how will this compare to other firsts in your career?   
 MANNY MALHOTRA: It's obviously an incredible position to be in. I think everybody that's on the ice tonight has dreamed about this at some point or another in their career, growing up.   
 I realize the significance of the moment. At the same time, once the puck's dropped, I'm going to have to just, again, bring it back to basics. Just another game, got to do the things I've done my whole career.   
  
  Q. If you do play at some point there's going to be a shot of Manny Malhotra on the big screen and the crowd is going to be pretty emotional. How do you react?   
 MANNY MALHOTRA: For me, it would obviously be a very touching moment, I guess. I realize how privileged I am to play in a market like Vancouver. We have incredible fans here. They've shown me nothing but support this entire year and through this entire last couple months.   
 So it's a privilege to play in front of them. I thank them for all the support that they've given me thus far.   
 HENRIK SEDIN: Yeah, it's going to be real emotional if it happens, if he's good to go. Manny has been around the team throughout this injury, the last couple weeks. He's been a huge part of our success this year.   
 So for us, it's going to be a big boost if he comes back. Really happy for him.   
  
  Q. Henrik, can you talk about what that has meant to the team, having Manny never really leave?  
 HENRIK SEDIN: Yeah, it was a given for us. I mean, from day one with the input he's given to us, the help with the leadership group in the room, on the ice, off the ice. He's been tremendous all year.   
 He's a big part, like I said, of our success this year. It wasn't a tough decision for us. A lot of time injury guys try to stay away a little bit more. But we want him around. We thought it was going to be a big help for our team.   
  
  Q. Manny, does that make this transition back to playing easier, the fact that you never really left?   
 MANNY MALHOTRA: I think so. In terms of game-day routine, knowing what to expect going into meetings, just being around the guys, it's not going to be a big shock for me. Like you said, I've been in the meetings, I've been at the rink at the normal time.   
 As far as routines, it will be a pretty easy transition.   
  
  Q. Henrik, Coach Vigneault said it took him about three years to tell you and your brother apart. Through your lives, how often has that happened and have you had fun with that, like pulled the wool over people's eyes in the past?   
 HENRIK SEDIN: Are we still talking about this (laughter)?   
 No, I mean, since we were young, it's been the same deal with teachers or friends or coaches. I mean, we don't try to look different from each other. I mean, we don't really think about it. I think guys that knows us, I think Manny and Alex can talk about this, it's not tough to tell us apart.   
 I think coaches, they don't spend enough time around us in the dressing room. It's not as easy for them. I think guys that are close to us, it's not a problem.   
  
  Q. Henrik, do you know if Manny is going to play?   
 HENRIK SEDIN: Got no clue. Still guessing here (laughter). We'll see.   
  
  Q. Alex, if Dan doesn't play and Andrew or Keith does, just the trickle-down effect on the defensive core?  
 ALEXANDER EDLER: I mean, I think we have a lot of depth on the D. We've been battling through injuries all year. So I think whoever is playing tonight, we know it's going to be six good players out there, and we'll be fine.   
  
  Q. Manny, could you give us an indication, how well can you see out of that eye?   
 MANNY MALHOTRA: Well enough. Like I said, I've been cleared to play. I feel confident on the ice. That's all that matters at this point.   
  
  Q. Alex, nine points so far in the playoffs. I think you're second on the D after Ehrhoff together with Bieksa. How happy are you with that?   
 ALEXANDER EDLER: I want to be involved defensively. It's nice to get points. But as long as I can contribute to scoring chances, to help the team creating things, I think that's part of my game that I want to do.   
  
  Q. Manny, will you be taking the warmup tonight? Can you tell us that?   
 MANNY MALHOTRA: I believe so, yeah, as of right now.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT