ISPS HANDA PERTH INTERNATIONAL
October 24, 2014
Peter Whiteford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (Question regarding eagled hole yesterday and today.)  
PETER WHITEFORD:   Yeah, yeah, that's a good hole, that.   Yeah, no, I hit good drives.   Yeah, I played the hole really well all week.   I was disappointed maybe to not take a few chances today, so that eagle kind of made up for a couple of things today.  
Played great.   Kind of felt like I got what I deserved.   Not often you say that in golf.   You're always thinking you could've done better.   But that eagle sort of made me feel a lot better.  
   
 Q.   Talk us through it.   We were stuck in the media center.   
PETER WHITEFORD:   A good drive.   Kind of between 4 and 5, just hit 4‑iron to about ‑‑ it was probably near the back edge, so it was good 30 feet at least (indiscernible), which was nice.   
I had a couple eagle chances.   Had another eagle chance on the, what, the 3rd hole is it?   Took a gamble there and back edge was probably (indiscernible) or not even that, maybe 25.   But it was an awful effort.   So it was nice to at least get one.   
   
 Q.   We understand you need a runner‑up or win to retain your card?  
PETER WHITEFORD:   Yep.   No holds barred.   Win or bust.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel you've got nothing to lose in some ways...   
PETER WHITEFORD:   Oh, no.   Very nervous.   Yeah, very nervous.   There's no doubt about is that.   Got to just keep attacking.   Yeah, I don't want to go back to school.   Nobody does.   But I get what I deserve in this game, and I've been awful all year.  
It's nice that the form is coming back later on in the year.   
   
 Q.   You find you're hitting the ball...  
PETER WHITEFORD:   Yeah, hit it better today than yesterday.   I thought I hit it pretty good yesterday.   Today was better, yeah.   Hit driver well, which is amazing for me.   
That's not been going well all year.   I found something in the swing that will hopefully hold up over the weekend.   
   
 Q.   There's talk about this being a morning course and an afternoon course.   Have you found that in the first two days?   
PETER WHITEFORD:   Yeah, definitely.   It was very firm this afternoon, and I'm sure it'll get firmer as the week goes on.  
I like that.   I grew up on links golf, and I think it's more interesting.   You can try to feed it off the green rather than this target golf stuff that gets a little bit tedious, if you ask me.   
Yeah, no.   (Indiscernible)   I've been here twice and it's been the same both times.  
   
 Q.   How did you normally cope when there is so much on the line?   
PETER WHITEFORD:   Well brown trousers tomorrow.   (Laughing.)   I have no idea.   I'm in the situation, like I said, so just got to do what you can do.   If I can hold up, then great.   So I need to win.   It's not a matter of I would like to win.   I need to to try to keep my job.  
   
 Q.   And your last win was 2009.   
PETER WHITEFORD:   What was that?   
   
 Q.   I was looking at your record.   
PETER WHITEFORD:   Yeah, no, that was Challenge Tour.   I won a few things on the Challenge Tour, which is nice.   This is a different level, bigger and better players.   Yeah, you can win tournaments.   I don't see why there as any reason you can't.   But it's only Friday.   Definitely don't get ahead of myself.  
I need two rounds probably in the 60s.   
   
 Q.   Brilliant.   All the best.   
PETER WHITEFORD:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT