BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 24, 2010
Peter Whiteford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Thoughts on the day?
 PETER WHITEFORD: It sounds stupid because I've shot 8-under but I didn't really feel like I'm swinging it -- I'm not swinging it that great. I was terrible and I found something I'm working on and I'm going to work on it again this afternoon. 
 Yeah, I got the ball around the golf course really, really well, considering 8-under, sometimes a bit strange but sometimes that's your best golf when you're not flying on all cylinders. I basically birdied the birdie holes I guess. There's one good birdie on about the 14th maybe. 
 A bit of a struggle to be honest but played really well, but didn't make any silly errors. When you are not 100 per cent confident you don't take on the flags, and that's kind of what I was doing and paid off today. 

 Q. Have you ever struggled before through a round of 64? 
 PETER WHITEFORD: Not that often. I don't mean to sound like this is -- I'm not good, but it's just one of those days. Delighted to get around. I would have been happy with a couple under, the way it really felt so to get around that score was very pleasing yeah.

 Q. A great foundation for the rest of the week, isn't it?
 PETER WHITEFORD: Yeah, I've got to go back and work on the range and hopefully start shaping it a bit better. 

 Q. What are you working on? 
 PETER WHITEFORD: Stuff. 

 Q. Ball control? 
 PETER WHITEFORD: The strike is kind of there and flight is sometimes drawn. I'm just aiming middle of the greens and moving a little bit left or a little bit right. The wedges are good and that gave me a lot of chances and obviously par 5s are reachable and got an eagle and birdie.

 Q. What did you do on the eagle? 
 PETER WHITEFORD: 6, hit a really good drive and 5-iron. I wanted to hit six but hit the five and knocked down five or six feet and rolled it in. That was a very good eagle there. 

 Q. That was Elvis?
 PETER WHITEFORD: Elvis, the caddie. It was only 185 to the flag. So that was a wee bit into the wind and took a bit off the five and played it safe. That's what its with a like all day, just playing it a little bit safe and it just paid off.

 Q. You've been playing well of late?
 PETER WHITEFORD: Yeah, season has gone well. Making a lot of weekends, which normally a bit more up-and-down than that. That's the pleasing thing because my game has come on quite a bit. If I played like that in the past, I would have probably struggled. 

 Q. Low rounds here before?
 PETER WHITEFORD: I've only played this once and I think I was in the hospitality tent come Friday afternoon. So, no, not really. 

 Q. A couple of your low rounds -- one bad hole, that you avoided?
 PETER WHITEFORD: Yeah, I've got all the colors of the rainbow on my scorecard but no dropped shots today. I just about dropped one, missed the green from 95 yards, easiest on the course and had to hole a 15-footer for par early on 7, so that kept momentum going, because that was a rubbish shot.

 Q. Birdied the last? 
 PETER WHITEFORD: Yeah, tried to, two putts. 

 Q. Started on 11? 
 PETER WHITEFORD: The par 5, I hit a wedge into a couple of feet there. A couple of wedges went stiff, two feet, which is not stiff obviously but good. Made it easy. 

 Q. Are you looking at where you want to be on the Money List and all that?
 PETER WHITEFORD: Yeah, I don't like telling people what my goals are, you sound like a big-headed idiot. Obviously Race to Dubai is one goal but that's as far as I would probably say. First goal is keeping my card and looks like I've done that already. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT