JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 29, 2008
Peter Whiteford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MICHAEL GIBBONS: Peter, thanks for joining us. Start us off with some details on today's round and we'll go from there.   
 PETER WHITEFORD: Yeah, I had a good stretch near the end of my front nine, the back nine. Chipped in for eagle on 16. Birdie, birdie finish for that nine, and got the ball rolling; you need momentum and stuff. Dropped one obviously on the first and managed to pick up a couple coming in so quite happy.  
  
  Q. ?  
 PETER WHITEFORD: I got a flyer out of the semi, so it was only -- it finished up five yards short of the green or ten yards short of the green. I'm sure they are waiting to -- we'll just wait. Chipped in from ten yards short. Ten yards short of the green, so maybe a 30-yard chip maybe.  
  
  Q. ?  
 PETER WHITEFORD: Yeah, just kept all the same equipment.   
 Good days and bad days. It wasn't hard but the new stuff is staying in the bag, so I'm quite happy with it. When you have to change, as opposed to sort of feeling about what's good and what's bad, sometimes it's better for you, you know.   
  
  Q. How long have you had these?  
 PETER WHITEFORD: I got them at the start of this week. Didn't want to send them back to Scotland rather than chasing them around the world. You always end up a week late, don't you.   
  
  Q. Goals for the year --  
PETER WHITEFORD: Yeah, I mean, obviously first and foremost is getting enough up to keep your card, and as you see, I've not got up that much this year. I've had kind of a down couple of months.   
 Yeah, game feels good, so going to work on a few things on the range and make sure it's all sharp for tomorrow. Obviously you still look to win tournaments. First and foremost, keep your card but just press on and see what happens down the stretch.  
  
  Q. ?  
 PETER WHITEFORD: Yeah, exactly, 40 minutes, it's great, at home. All of my friends and family, caddie's friends and family, everyone has come up, a few guys will come up for the weekend. So it's great, yeah.  
  
  Q. ?  
 PETER WHITEFORD: Don't know. Wait and find out. Hopefully it shouldn't be too bad. I guess you've just got to treat it like any other tournament except there will be thousands of people.   
 Obviously I've led and won Challenge Tour events before, so I guess the old boring quotes, stick to your game plan and this that and the other. That's all you can do really.  
  
  Q. ?  
 PETER WHITEFORD: I don't want to bore you with what everyone says, but yeah, that's what you've got to do. You've just got to stay in the moment.  
  
  Q. Did you see this coming?  
 PETER WHITEFORD: I had a better second round last week but I've been putting in maybe 1 1/2 good rounds out of four and that's not enough. You have to finish off tournaments. I don't want to look back and attempt to reverse it -- that's never a good play. So press on this weekend.   
 The game for the first time in a long time feels good, so hopefully I can just track on.  
  
  Q. ?  
 PETER WHITEFORD: Lane Dixon -- ten minutes up the road. Yeah, we've been reprimanded a few times -- no, relationship is good, so I'm enjoying it, yeah.  
  
  Q. ?  
 PETER WHITEFORD: It's huge. As you know, the money on the Challenge Tour -- all credit to the people that run it, but you can't make a living out there. There's not enough money.   
 So I guess you could say, you don't want to go back there. I've been there for four years. It's good strength and depth out there, at least 15, 18 guys who are very, very good, and that's why the leap from that tour to this tour is not that great. Obviously the top boys are world class. It's not something you want to go back to, because it's just financially a wrecker.  
  
  Q. ?  
 PETER WHITEFORD: No. I mean, see how tomorrow goes first.   
  
  Q. Do you have a sponsor?  
 PETER WHITEFORD: My good man is working on that at moment, but at the moment no sponsor. It's very hard, you can make excuses, there's lot a lot of money in Scotland and all that. But the end of the day, it comes down to who you know and all that.   
 So I've just not picked up a sponsor yet, which is -- the money you're paid from this tour, it's not quite as bad not having a sponsor because you can win money, but Challenge Tour-wise, that was ridiculous.  
  
  Q. ?  
 PETER WHITEFORD: There was a time a while ago where, yeah, you're playing the Challenge Tour for three or four years, and you've got to draw the line sometimes and think, well, I'm not good enough or whatever. I always knew I was good enough. It's just how long you can afford to keep doing it. It's all financial down there. There are still great players, but getting up here is the problem.   
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: Thanks for coming in. Good luck on the weekend.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT