ISPS HANDA PERTH INTERNATIONAL
October 23, 2014
Peter Whiteford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   6‑under to start this championship. 
PETER WHITEFORD:   Yeah, very good.   I've got to win to try and keep my card, keep my job.   No, I played great golf yesterday, 5‑under through 7 or something like that. 
I actually missed quite a lot of chances coming in.   I played lovely, so very happy the way things worked today.

Q.   You good at place under the course or do you even consider it playing under the course?
PETER WHITEFORD:   No, it's completely under the course.   Nobody likes it.   It's not a situation I like to be in, but I deserve it the way I played all year.
Last couple months have been better.

Q.   I know you have to finish, either win or second. 
PETER WHITEFORD:   Yeah, can't even take second.   Yeah, it certainly focuses the brain on one thing anyway, which can be good and also can hinter you as well.
Hopefully it's going to be the best way.

Q.   Have you been beating yourself up?
PETER WHITEFORD:   Always.   Yep, that's what I do. 

Q.   What has worked?   You said it has improved recently.   So turned a corner? 
PETER WHITEFORD:   Driver has been a lot better.   Just this week.   Last week it was still rubbish.   All year it's been pretty poor.
I've just struggled with the swing.   Like I said, it's slightly getting better the last couple weeks and the driver seems to be a lot better.
There are plenty of chances out there.   If you're hitting the right putts ‑‑ surprisingly I've hit ‑‑ pretty much most greens hitting the putts there is a decent chance at the green. 
But you could get on the wrong side of the hole without that much if a (indiscernible) and just drain it for a two‑putt. 
Delighted with 6‑under, and see what happens tomorrow.

Q.   Does it change your attitude about things that you might chase?   Are you finding yourself being a bit more aggressive because you've got to make birdies?
PETER WHITEFORD:   Yeah, a little bit.   I think I probably hit‑‑ although the course sort of takes what you have there.   Maybe hit a couple drivers more than I would normally, but that's just because it's been so bad.
I would like to think when I was playing my better golf back in the years gone by I hit the drivers the same as I did today.   It's not like I'm going gung‑ho.   It's just better golf.   Delighted really.

Q.   What have you done to your hand?   There is a lot of tape on that thumb. 
PETER WHITEFORD:   Yeah, it's been an ongoing thing for the last three months or something.   Just ligaments or something.   Anyway, I can't worry about that.   No pain, no gain.

Q.   The strapping helps, does it?
PETER WHITEFORD:   It helps.   I struggle to play without the strapping.   Doctor in Europe told me what to do:   strap it up and go and play. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT