THE IRISH OPEN
June 29, 2013
Peter Whiteford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Your thoughts on three days at this great championship?
PETER WHITEFORD:   It's great, it's an awesome tournament to play.   Crowds are fantastic, especially on the 17th fairway, I think they have all had a few Guinnesses by now but it's a fantastic tournament.   You always enjoy coming to Ireland, there's always big crowds.   Yeah, the golf course is lovely, great condition, so not much to complain about.

Q.   And all the better to be into the mix the final day?
PETER WHITEFORD:   It was horrendous last week, and this week, even though I'm scoring okay I feel as a bit of a duck under water.   The game, it's okay, enough good shots to keep me interested, but it's a bit of a struggle, but I'm hitting enough nice shots.

Q.   You have had to contend with all sorts out there but presumably the leaders might be a bit ahead of you but you're in a nice position. 
PETER WHITEFORD:   Yeah, plenty to play for tomorrow, trying to get into Race to Dubai for the end of the year.   If I can shoot something in the 60s, it will be a lovely cheque and have a chance on the back nine.

Q.   The incessant rain‑‑
PETER WHITEFORD:   It was really only hole, but it was fine after that.   The course is very scorable.   Pins were not too tucked away.   They could be nasty, I'm sure, if they wanted to.   It was scorable and it was warm, so the ball was going a bit further than yesterday. 

Q.   You've been close to winning this season, that must give you a good, positive thought for tomorrow?
PETER WHITEFORD:   Yeah, absolutely.   Like I said, if I can get off to the front nine like I did today, or front ten, whatever it was, but I felt like I got off to a decent start with five birdies in the first ten, 12 holes, there's chances coming in all the same. 
But one day at a time.   It's a work‑in‑progress.   Last week was horrendous and this week is a lot better.   I wouldn't say it feels great yet but it's getting there.

Q.   What's the difference from last week? 
PETER WHITEFORD:   I took a week off, like I said, so I didn't hit a ball, and then I just spent all weekend in Germany on the range and obviously some of it's working.   But still a long way to go but it's close. 

Q.   Who do you work with? 
PETER WHITEFORD:   Same coach back home, he can't come out to events, he's working back home.   It would be nice to have him out more but he's got his own job.

Q.   I suppose good thing is knowing there's a bit more to come, as you say, and you're in that position now. 
PETER WHITEFORD:   Yeah, the putting's a lot better these days.   I changed my style and my putter, so that's improved things.   If I can get the driver in play, so not far away with irons‑‑ if I can get the driver more in play, I will have a chance.

Q.   Driving used to be better part of your game‑‑
PETER WHITEFORD:   Used to be, back when I was playing Challenge Tour that was the strength of my game, putting my weakness, and it's flipped around a wee bit.   My game, it's not a hundredmillion miles away.   It's still there.   I'm not releasing it, a lot of steely shots, and sort of close my eyes and hitting it a wee bit a few times but apart from that, there's enough good ones in there. 

Q.   Are you playing as well after three rounds as you were when you were so close to winning in China? 
PETER WHITEFORD:   Korea.   No, I felt comfortable with the game back then.   When you're in contention, you feel comfortable.   It's not easy but it's good fun.   I enjoyed it 100 per cent out there but it's not quite as good fun when you know you're struggling a little bit; you're swinging at it, as opposed to trying to create a shot, which is my problem.   When I start thinking about the exact flight and all that, I play my best golf.

Q.   Being in contention in Ballantine's and India‑‑
PETER WHITEFORD:   Experience, absolutely, and if I can get off to a good start, I'll definitely give it a go if I can, but have to wait and see what these boys finish on.

Q.   Your birdie putts?
PETER WHITEFORD:   2 was about 15 feet and 4 was about eight feet maybe. 

Q.   And you had those two back‑to‑backs, 12 and 13?
PETER WHITEFORD:   12 was the par3, I had a lovely 4‑iron in to maybe a good 20, 25 feet, so that was a good putt.   Next one I drove on the green and two putts for birdie, so that was fine.

Q.   And 17?
PETER WHITEFORD:   17, I just hit the wrong club off the tee.   I thought it was right down the flag to be fair.   It was a little bit, one of those, close your eyes and hit it, but I thought it was good. 
The wind, it doesn't swirl, but almost went long yesterday with the same kind of shot, and I half‑duffed it yesterday, and I hit a good one today can it came up short.   I don't know, we'll just let him pick the club tomorrow.

Q.   Are you playing next week, too? 
PETER WHITEFORD:   Yeah.

Q.   Scottish? 
PETER WHITEFORD:   Yeah, and then it will be five weeks off for me. 

Q.   Hopefully four weeks off would be nice?
PETER WHITEFORD:   Well, unless I win the Scottish.   If you win that, there's a spot I suppose.   It's in the back of the mind, I've played well up there before; like I say, if I get the driver in play, I've got a chance but a lot of work to be done between here and there.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT