COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 23, 2013
Peter Whiteford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Tell us about today, if you would?  
    PETER WHITEFORD:   Yeah, you don't often get Qatar with no wind, so took advantage of it and actually hit the driver for the first time better to give myself a few chances.   It was one of those days it could have been a lot better almost.   A lot of positive stuff, hit a lot of good putts.   Yeah, happy, delighted with the day.  
   
 Q.   You've played well in the wind anyway but presumably with conditions like this, you just feel duty‑bound to take advantage?  
    PETER WHITEFORD:   Yeah, exactly, there's a lot of flags on the right‑hand side as well and I like to cut the ball into them so to be honest, the course suited my eye today as well, but might be a different story tomorrow.   But if the guys picking the flags are listening, stick them on the right.  
    It was a struggle in Abu Dhabi, I scored well considering how I played, I was all over the shop, off the tee, anyway.   So I ground it out, don't know where I finished, 40th or something, I can't remember.   But this week, it's coming together slowly but surely every week, hopefully gets better.  
   
 Q.   Sometimes just grinding something out for a week can actually help and boost the confidence?  
    PETER WHITEFORD:   Exactly, keep playing four rounds, I'm one of those guys that builds confidence, as well, so keep playing four rounds and maybe eventually put a tournament together.  
    It was a bad year last year and I just want to improve and hopefully not worry about things as much as last year.  
   
 Q.   How do you make it better?   How do you stop worrying?  
    PETER WHITEFORD:   You play better.   I struggled last year, especially off the tee, so if I can get the ball in play, like I did today; irons I'm normally okay.   So if I can get the ball in play off the tee, I can shoot some numbers.   
   
 Q.   Is it down to working any different regime or discipline ahead of the round?  
    PETER WHITEFORD:   Just beating a lot of drivers on the range to be honest.   There's no secrets, just got to ground it out and find the secret I guess.   I got a way with a couple but the majority was good.  
    It's a good start.   Hopefully something to build on.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT