ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 14, 2012
Peter Whiteford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   66, how did you achieve that? 
PETER WHITEFORD:   Holed a good putt on the last.   Played lovely today.   I left a few chances, got off to a flyer, birdie at the first and second and didn't make much for a wee while, but made a few on the back nine and you can pick up a few on the back nine.   Played solid, yeah.

Q.   The sense is that conditions got tougher this afternoon; did you find that with the breeze getting up and it started to rain?
PETER WHITEFORD:   The wind changed direction a wee bit with about five or six holes to go.   It's not tough conditions.   The rain, for the guys that are still out there, nobody likes playing in the rain, do they, but it's not tough.   But it was a nice day, yeah.

Q.   You got off to a great start on the back nine, and I think you birdied 10,11, 12, and you had a wobble on 15.   Were you distracted?   There was a delay when your partner lost his ball, and you bogeyed 15. 
PETER WHITEFORD:   No, I hit a terrible tee shot.   That was before any of the stuff happened.   I hit it into a place that you can make double from.   Just took my punishment, got bogey and got out there of and got to the next hole.

Q.   When you hit your driver way left on 18, did you think you had a birdie chance? 
PETER WHITEFORD:   Yeah, but just get it down to a wedge distance‑‑ only managed to get it to a 7‑iron distance but that's normally where the spectators trample down all the grass.   So it's certainly better left than going in the water right sort of down the cliff.   You always veer into that side but yeah, always a chance to birdie at the last.   It's a nice bowl area there and the flag is in, as well, and if you get a good shot in, it will tend to go five or six feet.

Q.   What yardage did you have for your approach shot?   You struck it to four feet from how far out. 
PETER WHITEFORD:   177 so slightly downwind, so a 7‑iron, perfect number really. 

Q.   14‑under, what do you think will win this tournament tomorrow? 
PETER WHITEFORD:   Depends how the guys get on.   At the moment, I don't know what's leading, 16?   So you have to be looking 20‑plus, easy.   I need at least another 66 to even have a chance. 
But like I said, the way the season has gone at the moment, if I can just get a good finish, obviously you'd love to win, but first thing is first and try to get at least a Top‑5 out of this tournament would be the No. 1 goal. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT