BARCLAYS DUBAI TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS WOMEN
February 15, 2010
Virginie Razzano
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 V. RAZZANO/S. Sfar
  6-2,6-2 
   
  Q. Your thoughts on the match? The way you played the first match and the level of play for the first match?   
 VIRGINIE RAZZANO: I was not at 100% it today of my game. But I played good for to win. And, yes, it's nice to play one match and feeling better in a few matches.   
  
  Q. How does it feel to come back to a tournament where you really did well last year?   
 VIRGINIE RAZZANO: What?   
  
  Q. How does it feel to come back to a tournament where you really did well last year?   
 VIRGINIE RAZZANO: Yeah, I think I'm very happy to come back and play in Dubai. I have a lot of memory last year to get in the finals. And the people are very friendly here and very nice. And, yes, it's nice to come back and play in Dubai. I'm very happy (smiling).   
  
  Q. You think you can do it this year as well? Going to the finals?   
 VIRGINIE RAZZANO: I don't know yet (laughing). I don't know yet. But I focus on every matches, match after match. We'll see what's happened. But I don't want to think too far. I'll take match after match is better for me. Of course, I would like to win finals, but it's everybody's the same.   
  
  Q. You're coming into a match against Shahar Peer. What do you think of that?   
 VIRGINIE RAZZANO: I played against her already maybe two years ago. I don't remember. Maybe three years ago in L.A., Los Angeles, for the tournament, and it was long time ago. I don't remember exactly.   
 Yeah, I know the game of Shahar. I'm not surprised to play against her because she's a great player, and she has a ranking going up. It's good for her.   
 Yeah, it's an interesting match, and, of course, I would like to win (laughing).  
  
  Q. Most of the ladies are coming to Dubai not just for the tennis but for the shopping and the tourism. Are you doing something like that here in Dubai?   
 VIRGINIE RAZZANO: If I win, yes. Last year I go after my finals to visit and take some times for me for swimming and take shopping. And I think before the tournament, it's little bit different because you want to prepare for your tournament. And I think you need to take one choice after one choice, you know. First play, then go where you can go far. And after you can go to the shopping.   
  
  Q. Now you are the leading French woman in tennis, what are your targets for the year?   
 VIRGINIE RAZZANO: I don't know (laughing). I don't want to have objective for this year the same as last year. Because last year I didn't have objective, and I played very good for all year. It was my secret for play with no pressure. And I prefer play with no pressure, and good for just one match and after one match.   
 But just concentrate on your first match and play -- try to play the best one. Try to play your games what you can do best of the day. But after you see if you have some difficult on your game or your adversary plays very good, and you need to find a solution, it's on the court.   
  
  Q. The way you play today, do you think it will be enough to play like this in the second match against Shahar in a second round match? Or do you think you'll have to raise your level even higher?   
 VIRGINIE RAZZANO: I think I must play my game first. I don't know. There is not a response for this. It's just concentrate on your game and play -- try to play your best one, and we'll see after.   
 I think Shahar, she plays fast, and there is not too much spin on her ball. But I think it's a good game for me to enjoy to play against her because we are the same game. Not the spin too much. It's nice.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT