ROGERS CUP PRESENTED BY AMERICAN EXPRESS
August 16, 2007
Virginie Razzano
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  How do you think the wind affected the play today?   
 VIRGINIE RAZZANO:  Yes, I think it's difficult to play with wind for together, because you must see where the windy go, because it's turn sometimes in the court.  And you must to have a big concentration because the ball moving every times.  And you must to play your games, too.   
But sometimes you must play your game aggressive.  But not too much sometimes, because you must to spin little bit.  You must to mixed, mixed (smiling).   
  
  Q.  Do you think you handled it better than she did today that that was one of the reasons you won?   
 VIRGINIE RAZZANO:  I think I play my games.  I know what I must do every times on the court.  My games aggressive.  I think, yes, I tried to play with the windy with this, my mental and the windy.   
 If the windy go from this, from against me, you must go more on line for me.  It's difficult, but you're trying to move the girl.  And if you have the wind in your back, you must go on line, too, but more cross.  And you see when you can go on line.  It's difficult, but you must to have very good concentration to choose ball at the good time.   
  
  Q.  Why do you think it was so difficult to hold serve today?  It seemed like it was more easier to break than to hold?   
 VIRGINIE RAZZANO:  I think there is a lot break to the first set and second set, her and me.  We break every time together, because wind is difficult for the girls - I don't know for the men - but for the girl when you go to serve your ball moving every times, and you don't feel very good.  And I think is why there is a lot break, uh-huh.   
  
  Q.  You've had great results the last three or four tournaments.  What do you think the difference is to get the success now?   
 VIRGINIE RAZZANO:  I work a lot my tennis and my physical and my mental before to come in USA.  And after when I'm coming with my coach physical, we work a lot before San Diego, one week before San Diego in USA, in San Diego.   
 And I play San Diego, I play good.  I play Venus in second round.  It was very good match for me, and she played so very good.   
 And after I work before L.A., and I play a lot matches, and I am coming here with only two days off.  One day off for travel, and the second day I go to hit the ball just one hour, not too much because I must to recoup before here, recuperation before here.   
 And I play here good, too.  Because there is no secret, when you work a lot your tennis after to have a good game and you play your best tennis, yeah.   
  
  Q.  I'm not that familiar with your career.  But do you think this is the best you've been playing ever?  Or is this one of the best times in your career?   
 VIRGINIE RAZZANO:  No, I think I had a good years before, too, when I win against (speaking in French) Hingis in US Open last year (smiling).   
  
  Q.  She doesn't remember the names of the people?   
 VIRGINIE RAZZANO:  I don't remember players, but I beat against top 20, under, some years before.  And no, I tried to have regularity every years with work and for my matches and try to be my best every time.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT