ROGERS CUP PRESENTED BY AMERICAN EXPRESS
August 15, 2007
Virginie Razzano
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  This can't be a satisfying way to get to the next round, is it?  Just not the same as winning a match normally?   
 VIRGINIE RAZZANO:  Sorry, what?   
  
  Q.  Is it satisfying to win a match when somebody has to retire?   
 THE MODERATOR:  Are you happy that you won, but not happy because of the way you won?   
 VIRGINIE RAZZANO:  I'm happy to play, and I'm happy to win, too.  Because it was tough match first set.  It was very - the score very close.  And I win the first set with my mental and my aggressivity in my game.   
 And after the second set I continued to stay in my game, aggressive.  And after she want to stop because she said - maybe, I'm not sure - but she said, I'm not feeling good.  And for me, it's a match again.  I played yesterday against Rezai, today against her.   
 For me, I'm happy to win.  I'm disappointment for her, because I know it's not -- it's not - the name?  What is the word in French?  Because she's not feeling good.  And I know this when you don't feel good or if you have a problem, it's difficult for to stay with the same game, with your games and everything.   
 And I am disappointment for her, but I am happy because I played very good today, too.  And I played very good to San Diego, L.A. and here.  For me, it's very good news.   
  
  Q.  Did you notice anything about her game or her personality that was not right today?   
 THE MODERATOR:  Did you notice she wasn't playing normal?  Did you notice that she was sick?   
 VIRGINIE RAZZANO:  I don't know if she was sick, because when she play the first set, she was here, she pushed through the ball and me too.  And she moving good.  And I didn't see the problem in the first set, because she stayed with mental - mental her, too.  And it was very -- the score very close.   
 And for she, I didn't see this, but after the second set when she called the trainer and she said to me, I call the trainer because I'm not feel good.  And I said, okay, no problem.   
  
  Q.  So she called the trainer at 2-0, that was the first time she called the trainer?  Or was there a trainer she called after the first set?   
 VIRGINIE RAZZANO:  No, she called at 2-Love, at 2-Love she called the trainer.  Because after it's me to serve for the game.  And I must to stop, too, because she called the trainer at 2-Love.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT