US OPEN
August 31, 2006
Virginie Razzano
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.Q. In the second set Martina ran off three straight games. Was there any point you were nervous?VIRGINIE RAZZANO: I think I sleep a little bit. I say this because, you know, I am very relaxed for two sets. Sometimes when you are very relax, sometimes you relax in your mental. And if you relax in your mental, you don't you lost little bit aggressivity in your game and your legs for to move good. I say, Oh, wake up because now is 5 4; is not 5 1. She come back; she play good. You little bit down because you lost your aggressivity little bit, and you must to push little bit more for to finish this match.Q. How does it feel to pull off the biggest upset so far? VIRGINIE RAZZANO: I think it's because I play very good today. I play my match. I very I have a good lucidity, lucid. In English? I am very lucid in my match. I know what I must to do against Martina for to win against her, because I know the game of her because. I play her maybe three or four years ago, and she beat me two times in two sets, but very difficult games, not 6 Love, 6 2. It was 6 4 or 7 5, 6 3, something like that, something of this. And I say if I want to win against her I don't must to wait the fault of her because she don't did fault. She has a good regularity in the game of Martina, and if you want to have points for you, you must go not on the net. But if you can go on the net, you go finish on the net. Or you push your balls very fast on the line or across, but not go cross, cross, cross because she's best of this game, cross, cross. And me, I must to go not long points. If I wait for long points, she win. If I go my game in four, five shot, I can win. Q. How would you rate her to what she was before, I guess four years ago when you played her? VIRGINIE RAZZANO: I play not too much aggressive, and I wait more. Stay on my line...THE MODERATOR: Her (translating in French). VIRGINIE RAZZANO: I think she has the same games. She come back very good, I think so. She has a good physical and good shots because, you know, is difficult to play against her because she don't do the fault every time. She put the ball in, in, and it's come back every times. Four years ago it was the same. She go moving right and left and she go to take every time the balls for come back, and you don't finish. If you don't push fast, so when you can go with the good balls, because you can't go fast, "I go fast and we see," if you have the balls for to go, you go and you cry. Q. Where would you consider this win in your career? Is this one of the biggest wins you've had? Would you consider this one of the biggest wins you've had? VIRGINIE RAZZANO: For this year, yes (laughing). For this year, yes, because, you know, I come back injury. It was very long for me. I have a big pain in my wrist, right hand, in my wrist. My hand. Is not my wrist, is my hand. I have so many problem with this for to come back and to play. Now, I come back just from Los Angeles, LA, and Montreal and here. I have only three tournaments because before I can't play. I must to stop. I feel better. Why my ranking go down, because last year I play very good, every weeks regularity a lot. And when I play a girl when the ranking it's down of me last year, I win and I have a good regularity. But this year, I can't play a lot tournaments because I have injury from February to three weeks ago. It's six months maybe not play a lot, and it's normal when you don't play a lot this year and play a lot last year and play good last year you lost your points and you come back far. Q. Martina had said that you played like you had no fear of her. Did you fear Martina? VIRGINIE RAZZANO: Yes, she say good, yeah (laughing). Yes, when I go on the court, you know, I don't have a friend/afraid(?) of the players because I think is good to for us, for me, myself, to go and play the games and to have lucidity, concentration, and you know what to do. You know what to do on the court, and you do. And you see after what's happen. If you do win the games, it's good. Is good for me. But after, you see. And she say maybe a good thing because when I play a big players, I am not afraid. I prefer (smiling). Is good challenge for me. FastScripts by ASAP Sports...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT