ROLAND GARROS
May 24, 2016
Virginie Razzano
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








V. RAZZANO/I. Soylu
4-6, 6-1, 6-0
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French, please.
Q. You're all dressed up and seem to have warmed up on the court.  Did it change anything?
VIRGINIE RAZZANO: Yes, I was cold.  I felt the temperature dropping in the second set.  I like to keep my muscles warm to be a little bit more responsive.  That's really how I felt.
When it's cold like that or when the temperature is too low, I slip something on.  So I played with a long sleeve T-shirt and longer shorts, and makes me a bit more energetic.
Q. Are you happy with the first set?
VIRGINIE RAZZANO: Yes.  In fact, I'm very happy with the first round.  Today was a really good match.  I managed to come back after losing the first set.  I won it with my brains and heart - and with my tennis, of course.
So I'm really very happy for the first round and having passed that.  It's never easy and I'm really proud.  After Strasbourg, it's not necessarily that easy to move from Strasbourg to the French Open, which is a Grand Slam tournament.
Q. (No microphone.)
VIRGINIE RAZZANO: No, the Grand Slam is much more difficult.  It's a very different atmosphere.  You're just in an ordinary tournament and you move to Grand Slam where there are plenty of courts, plenty of people.
It's more difficult to manage, but it's pretty cool to be here at the French Open in good health with nothing wrong with my abs like last year.
Q. (No microphone.)
VIRGINIE RAZZANO: Yes, true.  She wasn't easy to defeat today.  She's young; she's fresh; she played well.  I had to establish my game a little bit more than in Strasbourg to make a difference today.
I think I was able to do that a bit stronger with the ball and a bit more nimble with my legs to make a difference.
Q. So your pleasure of being in the French Open will continue, and that's great.
VIRGINIE RAZZANO: Absolutely.  I'm here to do my job, and that's to play tennis.  I enjoy it.  It's true that this opportunity to play the French Open doesn't come up every day.  It's a great pleasure.  Kids who watch you on TV are dreaming of that.
It's like Olympic Games.  These are huge events that are wonderful to watch on television and are wonderful to watch when you're a spectator.  You need to think about all those who are not fortunate enough to be here and play what they're passionate about.
Q. You went through a lot of tough times in your life.  Last year, end of last year was pretty tough.  2015, I mean.  At what point did you start thinking, I'm going to stop; I can't take anymore?  And when did you stop thinking about that?
VIRGINIE RAZZANO: First of all, I never thought I was going to stop, even at the end of 2015.
What was your second question?
Q. When did you feel physically that things were coming back?
VIRGINIE RAZZANO: After Melbourne, in the qualifiers when I lost against the Chinese girl who went into the quarterfinals.  It was a really difficult match.  I lost 8-6.  I had an injury in the leg, in the buttocks.  If I hadn't been injured I think physically I would've made it.
Tennis you need to be fit all over:  head, arms, and legs.  You need to be prepared physically and intellectually.  I was really disappointed after that match.  It lasted three hours and it was very hot.  I thought I would've deserved to be there, but I was glad to see that she went all the way to the quarterfinals.
It was from then on that I knew I was ready.  So I worked hard in November, in December, and then I prepared for 2016.  I was well aware that I had set all my personal problems -- my mother almost passed away at the end of January when I got home from Melbourne.
Q. Was that last year?
VIRGINIE RAZZANO: On January 31st she had a stroke at the age of 56 when I returned from Melbourne.  It was a very complicated year for me.  She stayed in the hospital in the emergency room for a very long time.  For three months I knew she could pass away at any moment.
So you just set tennis aside when that happens.  Last year I was lucky enough to go to Strasbourg, and then I hurt my abs.  I was in the semifinal.  This year I started off with the qualifiers so I've been playing more matches, but it's been fun.
After that, two months for the ab injury meant that I didn't go to the U.S.  So it was a tough year.  I need to take care of my mom of course because everything is not rosy in life.  You need to help your mom and do lots of stuff.  I have a sister and she has a partner, but it does require you to be around, especially when people aren't self-sufficient for a moment.
But I managed to get over that.  I know she's well now.  Everyone around me is well so I can focus on tennis and play tennis finally.  I feel ready and fit and I'm playing well.
Q. (No microphone.)
VIRGINIE RAZZANO: Yes.  The real Virginie Razzano is back.
Q. How did you practice?  Are you in Nimes?  Do you still work on your own?
VIRGINIE RAZZANO: Yes, I manage myself.  I have a gym in Nimes where I exercise on my own.  I get the basics with the physical coach from the Federation, but I train on my own, on my bike.  I just motivate myself and keep on working.
For tennis, I have some sparring partners at the tennis club in Nimes.  I train.  I play with some guys, too.
Since the start of the year I've been traveling on my own to those tournaments, all the way to Strasbourg where I managed myself during my games.  I did it all on my own.
Q. How do you feel about that?  Do you think something is missing perhaps?
VIRGINIE RAZZANO: Well, I don't really have a choice.  Financially there can't be two of you traveling, so after a while life tells you that you need to move along on your own.  I'm really proud, because working on your own is never easy.
I have a lot of determination, and that's why I'm still here today living this great passion.  I would like to get back into the top 100 before the end of this year or before the middle of 2017, which gives me a year, year and a half to reach where I want to be:  top 100.
I don't know if I'll make it or not, but the most important thing is that I'm proud of myself and that I'm moving step by step in the right direction.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT