U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 23, 1998
John Grace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOHN GRACE:  I turned pro April of this year.

JOHN GRACE:  Well, there was a lot of reasons.  The SENIOR TOUR is there.  It is a heckuva challenge to me.  I have played golf all my life.  And there is some gold at the end of the rainbow if you can do well.  So I guess there is more than one reason.  There is a lot of reasons.

JOHN GRACE:  To be honest, I was surprised how difficult it played.  The first hole I hit a 60 degree wedge and I could hear it hit the green and that was at 7:10 in the morning when the greens were at their softest.  I birdied the hole, but the ball bounced about 15 feet from where the divot was.  And the course was set up --  the greens were very, very fast and very firm.  And the rough was very severe.  It is -- I doubt it is much easier than a U.S. Open setup, frankly.  I think one or two holes were set up a little shorter, but it was set up pretty long.

JOHN GRACE:  Birdied 1 from about 12 feet.  Birdied 13 from about 20 feet.  That is it.

JOHN GRACE:  I bogeyed 2, 4 and 11.

JOHN GRACE:  Somebody is going to shoot in the 60s, no doubt about that.  67, -8 or -9, I would think.  But I am going to tell you, it was set up very hard.  It wasn't -- there won't be a lot of them, I wouldn't think.


Q.  You have always been noted for keeping the ball in the fairway off the tee and may have a little longer way into the greens.  Was that the case today?  Did you put the ball in the fairway most of the time?

JOHN GRACE:  I hit it very, very straight today.  I only had one drive that cost me a bogey.  That was at No. 2. That was probably a big key to the rounds.  Of course, I made the 5- and 6-footers, which you have got to do on these greens, you get 30 feet and it is hard to get within three feet of the hole.


Q.  Any wind out there today? 

JOHN GRACE:  A little bit.  The last 9 we had, yes. It was picking up slightly the last 9.


Q.  I know this may be putting you on the spot, but how does this rank early on?  Would you have put this where your expectations were or above it?

JOHN GRACE:  I don't think I had any expectations. I was just trying to play every shot the best I could and I was hoping for a good round and I didn't know what a good round would be.  Like I say, I was surprised the course was set up as hard as it was.  I am very happy with the round, that is all I am going to say about that.  I didn't really have an expectation about what would be a good round on the golf course.  I don't usually think that way.


Q.  How many times have you played this course?

JOHN GRACE:  I played Monday, Tuesday and ten holes Wednesday.  I think the big advantage was having played in the National Amateur so many times, I had an idea.  I knew what they would probably do this morning and they did it.


Q.  Just so we have it on record, you played in 19 U.S. Amateurs.  Tell us about some of your better USGA finishes?

JOHN GRACE:  Well, I was runner-up to Jerry Pate in the U.S. Amateur in 1974.  I was semi-finalist in the Mid-Amateur in 1994. Quarterfinalist in the Mid-Amateur last year.  And I finished -- I got to the third round I had beat Jay Sigel in the second round of the U.S. Amateur in 1981 and he won the next two U.S. Amateurs.  We kid each other about that.


Q.  How far back do we go?  When was your first?

JOHN GRACE:  1966 at Merion Golf Club.  I played in the Junior Amateur in 1964.


Q.  Did you get out there in the kikuyu at any time?

JOHN GRACE:  Well, yes.  You mean the rough?


Q.  Yeah.

JOHN GRACE:  No. 2, the second hole.  And I made a bogey.  I had to chip out.  Had no shot, just chip it out.


Q.  Buried?

JOHN GRACE:  Well, I won't say buried, but real bad.  Bad enough to where I had to hit a wedge just to get back to the fairway.


Q.  That is the biggest -- one of the biggest problems if you stray a little bit --

JOHN GRACE:  No problem.


Q.  That kikuyu will eat you alive.

JOHN GRACE:  That, combined with firm greens, even if you have a good lie in it, you can hardly stop the ball on the green.  That is a combination what that is really -- it is kind of a thing, you know, in USGA you haven't -- you don't necessarily play for birdie, sometimes not even for pars.  You are playing to get the ball in the fairway, get it  on the right side of the hole, 2-putt and go on.  Par is an awfully good score.


Q.  You played it early before it was spiked up or anything?

JOHN GRACE:  Yes.


Q.  Or bumped?

JOHN GRACE:  That is right.  I think it was probably an advantage to play early.  I didn't know if it was or not because it may have played a little longer, but the greens were really hard and firm at 7:00 this morning.  I'd hate to think what they were going to be at 2 o'clock.


Q.  You turned professional in April?

JOHN GRACE:  April, yes.


Q.  What has happened to the real estate business in the time you have been gone?

JOHN GRACE:  I had been planning this for about four, five years, and I had gotten out of a few things and right now I am still doing some residential development and I have, I guess you'd call him, a partner who is handling a lot of that for me. It is working out pretty good.  But I have gotten out of several things -- I have gotten a little bit out of it and I have got some still doing a few things, but not as much.  I am going to continue.  I am not going to give up my day job yet.  (laughs).


Q.  Are you satisfied that is as good a round as you could play on this course?

JOHN GRACE:  No.  No, I mean, you know, I don't know if anybody would ever say that about any round they have that it is a good a round as I can play.  You know, golf -- as long as you can get to the hole, it can go in.  But I have to say, it was a pretty good round for me.  I am not disappointed in any way.  It was a very good round because I had to -- looking back, it was tough.  It was a tough golf course.  I am not in any way complaining.  I didn't really leave much out there.  I 3-putted 11, bogeyed there. Actually mis-clubbed my third shot; left it on the front of the green and 3-putted.  But the way the greens are, I am going to emphasize they are fast, tricky and firm and that is the way the USGA likes them.  They have them that way this week.


Q.  Did you make any long putts for saves?

JOHN GRACE:  Long putts for saves.  Well, I have made some 5-footers for saves.  I made a bunch, I'd say maybe four, five.  But I didn't make anything over -- I made -- the longest putt I made was a 20-footer at 13 for birdie.  Where else did I birdie?  One I birdied from 12, 15 feet - only two long putts I made.  I really did well on the putts.  You have to do well to score well, three to seven feet especially in USGA events.  You will hit a good chip 30, 40 feet and you think  it is next to the hole; before you look up it is seven feet by.


Q.  That fast?

JOHN GRACE:  I thought they were pretty quick.  They really were.  They were quick.


Q.  If I looked at your fellow competitive board, you had fellow competitors who were plus 11 and plus 14.  Is it tough to shoot well with that kind of company?

JOHN GRACE:  The best part of my game today was probably because of concentration and my caddie and I were talking about that going down 18 I said:  You know, these guys are -- I know are way over, I really didn't know what they were shooting in a way, but I just didn't -- it didn't bother me at all.  It just didn't.  I was really into my game today, so.


Q.  Welcome to the pressroom because this may be your first trip as a pro into the pressroom.

JOHN GRACE:  I guess it is the first trip as a pro. That is right.

JOHN GRACE:  Hope I am back again.  Is that it?


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT