WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 25, 2021
J.T. Poston
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Talk about your win if you could please.
 J.T. POSTON:   It was one of those rounds, one of those matchups where I don't think we really had our best stuff.  We definitely gave each other some easy wins throughout the match, but I felt like I did a pretty good job of staying aggressive and just trying to win holes when I had my chances and I was able to do that.
 Q. You said you hadn't played match play since like your freshman year of college.  When you say you really like match play, did it take you maybe yesterday, maybe a little bit of today to kind of get back in the flow of match play golf?
 J.T. POSTON:   Yeah, it definitely took a little while to get sort of back into the flow, but it's just fun.  I love the format.  I think my game suits the format very well.  My short game's been really good lately so I never really feel like I'm out of the hole.  And my ball striking's been better the last couple days as opposed to maybe the three, four weeks leading up to this.  So I've given myself some looks and been able to make some birdies, more yesterday than today, but still hitting a lot of the right shots.
 Q. Do you feel like when you say your game kind of suits match play, do you feel like you constantly put pressure on your opponent because of your short game and putting?
 J.T. POSTON:   Maybe.  I mean, definitely it's nice to apply that pressure.  I think it's more just mentally for me, I never really feel like I'm out of the hole.  No matter kind of where I may have hit it or where my opponent is, I never really feel like I'm out of the hole until it's over.  So I think that's a good mentality to have and I think my game sort of gives me that mentality as good as I am around the greens.
 Q. So if you're saying you haven't played since your freshman year of college, did no U.S. Amateurs or anything like that during --
 J.T. POSTON:   I played in one U.S. Am in college and I didn't make it to match play.  So I hadn't played it in a long time.
 Q. Your mentality going into tomorrow's match?
 J.T. POSTON:   Yeah, I mean tomorrow I think I sort of control my own destiny tomorrow.  I think a win locks it up, so that's what I'm going to focus on, just like I have been the last two days and just know that getting a win would get me to the next round.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT