SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 2, 2020
J.T. Poston
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Birdieing five out of six was a nice little hot streak.  What hit the switch?
J.T. POSTON:   Yeah, I mean, I had been hitting it nice the last two days, and my caddie Flener was telling me just to stay patient because I didn't really make a whole lot on the front.  I like these Bermuda greens.  They're very similar to what I'm used to.  And so yeah, I saw one guy hit a great shot into 10 and finally made one and then made another one about the same length on 11, and probably the best one of the day was the par putt on 12 to kind of keep the momentum going.  Just seeing a few go in, and my speed was good, so it was nice to get going on the back.
Q. You're really a good putter; we've talked about that before.  When you see greens like this, you must really get excited because you know they're going to be fast, they're going to be pure, they're going to be consistent.
J.T. POSTON:   Right, yeah.  These are pretty much some of the best greens we play on all year, and so knowing that coming into it, I'm always excited to get here, and I know that if I can have a decent ball-striking week and get myself a lot of looks, then I can shoot some low numbers, and that's what I've been able to do the last two days, and hopefully do it again the next two.
Q. Talk about your putting style because you don't bend over much, you stand up straight, your feet are close together, your arms just kind of hang.  It's effortless; there's no pressure at all.
J.T. POSTON:   Yeah, well, that's kind of the idea for me.  I want to be as comfortable as I possibly can when I'm over it.  I feel like the more comfortable I am, the better chance I have of putting a good stroke on it.  I think a lot of guys are taught to kind of -- it just doesn't look comfortable.  They're bent over, they're rigid and tight and it just doesn't look comfortable to me, and I've just felt like -- this is how I've always putted.  I know it's different, but for me it works, and I'm going to keep doing it.
Q. Lag putting, you hit some long putts out there like the last one.  Not a problem, roll it up there a foot away.  You've always been a good lag putter, too.
J.T. POSTON:   Yeah, it helps to be on greens that are this consistent and this fast.  I did have a couple long ones the first two holes and left them quite a bit short, and so I was able to kind of adjust that a little bit.  But yeah, I think I gave myself some decently long putts and was able to get the speed down, especially the last nine holes.  Anytime you can have those tap-in pars or kind of stress-free pars, that's going to help your round.
Q. What do you make of a tournament leaderboard where you've got guys like yourself and Denny McCarthy who are great putters, and then you've got Keegan, Sergio, guys who are really not -- they're still good putters but are more typically ranking in the 150, 200 range?
J.T. POSTON:   Yeah, I mean, at the end of the day there's a million different ways to shoot a good score.  Now, for guys that putting is our strength, it definitely helps.  But I can see where it helps those guys.  If they're normally good ball strikers and they get on some really good greens, that's got to build your confidence a little bit with the putter.  I'm sure most guys are having good putting weeks on these greens because they're so good, so it's just for the guys that are notoriously good putters, I'd say they might make a few more.
Q. You had a couple quick top 10s right out of the gate after the resumption of play but then have had a bit of a lull.  What was the struggle for you?
J.T. POSTON:   Yeah, my ball-striking was really good the first two days, and those golf courses are really good golf courses for my game I feel like, and they really suit my eye.  That was just the bonus that the two that we happened to come back and play were two courses that I really like and I could see myself playing well every year.
From there it was just a little bit inconsistent with the ball-striking.  The putter has always been solid, I just didn't give myself enough looks and made too many bogeys.
Q. Did you go back to the drawing board after U.S. Open?
J.T. POSTON:   Not really.  The U.S. Open was kind of a weird deal.  I had some issues with my eye, so that was kind of -- I hit a shot on the range on Thursday and a rock shot up and hit my eye and had some pretty bad blurred vision on Friday.  I don't want to make any excuses, but it was just kind of a weird deal.  I didn't really panic after missing the cut at U.S. Open.  It was just kind of let the eye heal up and get back to what I know I can do best.
Q. What's UKG?
J.T. POSTON:   It's the United Kronos Group.  It used to be Kronos -- I'm sorry, Ultimate Kronos Group.  They just merged a couple companies, and I'm still learning a little bit, but Kronos does basically payroll management for companies and stuff.
Q. You got one W; what does getting a second one, what would that mean to you?
J.T. POSTON:   Yeah, any time you win out here it's an awesome feeling.  I mean, I've done it once, and I remembered that night wanting to do it again.  And getting the second one kind of validates it a little bit, I think, that the first one is not a fluke or anything, and that you're capable of winning out here and doing it multiple times.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT