SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 3, 2020
J.T. Poston
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Talk about today; are you happy with today?  I thought you played pretty well.
 J.T. POSTON:   Yeah, I'm happy.  I'm in a good spot going into tomorrow, obviously.  I feel like I didn't quite putt it as well as I have the last two days.  I made a couple good ones still, but definitely feel like I left a few out there and just a couple clubs here and there that maybe could have been better.  But overall I'm still happy.
 Q. What's the game plan for tomorrow?  What do you feel like you need to shore up before you head into the final round?
 J.T. POSTON:   I think I'm just going to keep doing what I'm doing and hope that putter gets hot like it was the first two days.  Three guys tied for the lead and a bunch of guys right behind us, so I think you're going to have to go shoot something pretty low because out of that group somebody is going to shoot probably 6-, 7-under I would guess, maybe even lower.  I mean, you never know.  You can definitely do it out here.  I think it'll still take a good score, so my mindset will still be trying to make a bunch of birdies.
 Q. Talk about how fast these greens are because the miss you had at 10, I thought you hit a good putt, and it caught that corner -- they're sharp corners, aren't they?
 J.T. POSTON:   Yeah, you normally don't have to think about speed too much on short putts I feel like, but they're so fast, if it's got any break -- that's a good example actually.  That was probably a right edge, right center putt, and I hit it exactly where I wanted to, I think it was just going a little too fast, that's why it lipped out.  It's definitely a factor.  They're rolling so well you can make a lot of putts, but you can leave yourself some putts that you kind of have to be a little defensive or at least think about it.  But overall they're so good you can make a lot of them.
 Q. The fact you've won, what does that mean going into tomorrow?  That winning formula, that's got to feel like you can go back and maybe pull something from it?
 J.T. POSTON:   Yeah, I'll definitely feed off my experience at the Wyndham and how I felt coming off the stretch.  That day I was in a little different position than I'll be tomorrow.  I was behind by a few, so there wasn't a whole lot of pressure.  I felt like I could just go out there and feel like I could shoot something really low, and fortunately I was able to do that.  Tomorrow will be a little different, but like I said, there's a lot of guys that are right there, so you're going to have to go shoot something low, and I'm going to try and play like I'm trailing and just try to get ahead early.
 Q. How would you describe your 2020?  At the Wyndham you ended the reason so well in 2019.  How would you describe 2020?
 J.T. POSTON:   Yeah, it's obviously been a roller coaster on and off the golf course.  I've had some flashes of some really good golf and some good finishes, and I've had some weeks where I've felt like I didn't know where the golf ball was going.  But that's pretty typical with any year.  It's a long season.  You're going to have your ups and downs.  Overall I'm happy with obviously where my game is now and hopefully keep it going throughout the rest of the year.
 Q. Are you referring to the time on Twitter when you were telling people you weren't injured and it was just a bad score?  Is that what you mean?
 J.T. POSTON:   No, not at all.  I think -- you're talking about Bay Hill maybe?  Bay Hill was actually the opposite.  So I played terrible, I shot 83 or 84, 85, something like that, and I had a lot of people asking me if I was okay and thinking that I was hurt, and it was the opposite.  I was fine, my game just wasn't -- it was one of those days I didn't play good.  But I didn't want people to feel like I was hurt and that was an excuse.  I wasn't going to -- it was just a bad day.
 Q. Would you rather have a more sort of flat season in terms of not as many valleys and sort of be more consistent?  Is that kind of what you're searching for?  What are you looking for in your career at this point?
 J.T. POSTON:   In my career?  Yeah, obviously I just want to keep improving.  Obviously if I can get more consistently good, then that's where I want to be, and that's what everybody is trying to do.  They're trying to improve and be more consistently at the top of the leaderboard out here.  That's the goal in mind.  But I know that part of the game is you're going to have your ups and downs and you're going to have your good weeks and you're going to have weeks where you might play well and you might not get the right breaks or might miss a lot of putts and just not get anything going.  That's just part of what we do.
 Q. This could shape into being a bit of a track meet tomorrow.  Does that fit you well?
 J.T. POSTON:   I think so, yeah.  I'm confident in my ability on this golf course.  I know I can make birdies.  I know I can get the putter going.  I think I just need to give myself a lot of looks, and I've done -- I did a really good job of doing that the first two days.  I don't know how many greens I hit today, but I felt like I hit a decent number and gave myself some looks.  If I can do that tomorrow, then it'll just be up to the putter where I can get it going or not.
 Q. Do you have a number you're thinking about?
 J.T. POSTON:   I think if I got to 20 I would feel pretty good.  I'm not saying that that's going to get it done.  I could see it being more.  But I feel like if I get to 20-under par and I get beat, then I got beat.
 Q. How is your grandpa doing and is he going to be texting you anything, words of advice?
 J.T. POSTON:   Yeah, he's doing better.  He's had his ups and downs with his health, but he's doing great.  I talk to him on the phone a good bit, and I'm sure I'll get a text or a call from him this afternoon just asking about the round and how I felt out there, and we'll feel it tomorrow.
 Q. Who is your team over at Sea Island?
 J.T. POSTON:   In Sea Island I work with Randy Myers in the gym, but as far as swing goes, I've always worked with a guy named John McNeely who is in primarily the mountains in North Carolina, Diamond Creek.  I've known him since I was a kid, and he's always been kind of a mentor/swing coach for me over the years, and he's helped me a lot navigate the ranks getting up to this level, and he's still a big part of what I'm doing today.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT