BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
July 31, 2020
Kyle Stanley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. 14 points in your round today.  Can we just get some comments about how it went out there?
 KYLE STANLEY:   Yeah, it was good.  Actually I'm not sure what I shot.  It's kind of weird, the format out here, you're kind of focusing more on points than you are what your score is.  But I had another eagle today which was nice.  I had one yesterday. That's about half of my point total, which was nice.  But yeah, I've been driving it well.  It's kind of fun with this altitude, you can kind of swing away.  We have some shorter par-4s out here so you can make a go at some of those, a little bit of risk-reward, and just kind of kept the ball in front of me and a pretty clean round of golf.
 Q. Can you walk us through that eagle on 12?
 KYLE STANLEY:   Yeah, so I pushed my drive a little bit and cut a 5-wood, and it caught the far right side of the green, and then I made a pretty long putt. I'm not sure how far it was. Yeah, it was nice to -- second day in a row with one of those, which is nice.  Hopefully I can keep that going.
 Q. You already have a top 10 at this event.  What is it about this format that you like?
 KYLE STANLEY:   Gosh, I don't know.  It's a different golf course.  I like playing here.  I liked the old one, as well.  Like I said, you're not as much focusing on your score as you are just trying to tally up all the points.  I don't know, maybe that mindset.  But I feel like I've been playing well for a while.  My scores maybe haven't shown that, but I felt pretty good coming into the week.  Nice to have a good couple days.
 Q. You're considered one of the bubble boys in the FedExCup standings as we get closer to the Playoffs.  How important is this event as we get closer to the Playoffs?
 KYLE STANLEY:   Yeah, I'm not in the PGA next week, so I have this and Wyndham.  Yeah, time to get going.  To make the Playoffs I'm going to need a good week here, and hopefully I can have a good weekend and get it done.
 Q. What's kind of your mindset to get yourself in contention on Sunday?
 KYLE STANLEY:   Yeah, just more of the same.  My swing is feeling great.  I have a couple keys I'm kind of focusing on with my putting to keep my head still, and really just more of the same.  Just keep giving myself opportunities and take advantage of the par-5s and some of the shorter par-4s, and yeah, just more of the same.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT