SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 13, 2018
Kyle Stanley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How do you assess your round out there today?  
KYLE STANLEY: Pretty happy with it.  I thought I putted well.  Didn't really get the round going until 9.  That was my first birdie of the day.  Had a chip-in for par on 17.  I probably saved myself a couple shots there.  And to eagle the last was a nice way to finish.   
 Q.  What do you feel you have to do tomorrow to come out on top here?  
KYLE STANLEY: Probably more of the same.  This course can yield some pretty low scores.  So fairways and greens and continue to make some putts.   
 Q.  Kyle, big smile on your face because I think the way you flagged it a couple times on the back nine certainly makes for a happy finish today.  
KYLE STANLEY: Yeah, I probably saved myself at least one, two shots on 17 chipping in for par there.  So that was nice.  And then, yeah, to finish with an eagle was a nice way to finish the round for sure.   
 Q.  How do you balance taking advantage of the holes where you know you can score on and then the mix out there.  There are some tough holes out there to be able to pick your spots and be able to take advantage of when you can score out here.  
KYLE STANLEY: Yeah, you've just got to be patient.  Like you said, there are some holes that are birdie holes, the par 5s, a number of the par 4s if you drive it in play.  Just be patient and know that you're going to get some chances and, yeah, just patience really.   
 Q.  Obviously in the mix, but things look pretty bunched going into tomorrow.  What is the game plan?  Is it patience?  Is it one hole at a time?  How do you pay attention to what needs to happen tomorrow?  
KYLE STANLEY: Yeah, just more of the same.  Just continue to do what's gotten ourselves in this position.  I'm putting it well, which is really nice.  That kind of takes a little bit of the pressure off the ball striking.  So continue with the putting that I have and just try to hit fairways and greens.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT