WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 21, 2016
Kyle Stanley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Kyle, congratulations.  2-under, finish at 12-under.  As you said the other day, mission accomplished but now on to the FedExCup Playoffs.  
KYLE STANLEY: Yeah, I'm kind of relieved.  Sort of a stressful week.  At the same time I'm taking the positives out of the way I played the past couple weeks.  I knew I had to put two good weeks together and so to be able to do it I'm pretty happy with that.   
 Q.  What was your approach to this round today when you knew you're going the try and win a golf tournament but you didn't want to make any real mistakes?  
KYLE STANLEY: Well, I mean you try to put it in perspective, really.  If I play well today, if I play poorly, you know, life still goes on.  But, at the same time, putting together a pretty good tournament here.  I was trying to improve my position in this event and focus more on this event instead of the FedExCup.   
 Q.  I thought the birdie at 16 was really big for you because 18 is always a tough hole to play, but that kind of said how well you played.  
KYLE STANLEY: Yeah, made me a little bit more comfortable coming down the last two.  At that point I knew I was okay, so -- but, overall, I thought I played really well this week and see if we can make a run this coming week.   
 Q.  Bethpage Black, your thoughts on going there next week.  
KYLE STANLEY: Yeah, I like it.  It's a good course.  Long course.  Lot of drivers.  So, I played it the last time we were there and in the Open I think in 2009.  Great golf course.  Looking forward to going back.   
 Q.  (Inaudible).  
KYLE STANLEY: (Inaudible).  2015, it wasn't kind of good on the outside.  Wasn't much fun not being able to set your schedule and playing Web events and kind of a sporadic schedule out here.  I really wanted to get it done this week.  Yeah, feels really good.  Maybe next week or during the Playoffs (inaudible).   
 Q.  What are the positive signs you've seen in the past couple of weeks that you're doing better?  
KYLE STANLEY: I played terrible in Hartford and, you know, going back I mean to John Deere is a golf course that I've always played fairly well at.  I had good vibes there.  Kind of found something in my golf swing when I was practicing there early in the week where -- typically I'm a good ball-striker and my putting is where I give away shots.   
This year my putting has actually been okay but I just -- my ball striking has kind of stumbled.  These past two weeks have been about the best I played this year and to, be honest, didn't really putt that great.  So, I just got to keep trying to hone that in.  As long as I do, I'm always going to be fine.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT