RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 25, 2014
Kyle Stanley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   When you see a couple of course records going up in the morning, how does that affect the way you approach the golf course?  
KYLE STANLEY:   Yeah, you know, there was a lot of low numbers out there, but I actually thought it played pretty difficult this afternoon.   The wind was up.   You really had to control your golf ball, and when I played yesterday morning there wasn't much wind.   I thought today it played pretty tough.   
   
 Q.   Obviously you're having to work to make sure you get yourself into the FedExCup Playoffs.   What is your feeling about how you're playing so far this week and how you'll approach the weekend?  
KYLE STANLEY:   Yeah, I'm starting to play a little bit better.   I haven't been putting very good this year, but I've been putting a lot of time in there as of late and kind of slowly starting to see the results there.   Hopefully I can make something happen this weekend.   The nice thing about golf is you can turn a pretty poor year into a good one with one or two good weeks.  
   
 Q.   Such steady play today, 15 of 18 greens.   What is it about playing in Canada that you just love?   You had a great finish last year and here you are right in the thick of things headed into the weekend?  
KYLE STANLEY:   I don't know.   This is my second year where I've been playing pretty well at this tournament.   I like the golf course a lot.   It kind of reminds me a little bit of the one I grew up on, and I've been pretty comfortable on bentgrass.   But happy with where I am and the state of my game slowly kind of starting to come around, which is exciting, and the Playoffs are kind of right around the corner, and there might be a little more purpose to what I'm doing.   I know I need to have a few good weeks, so that's what we're trying to do.  
   
 Q.   You gave yourself so many quality birdie opportunities, you have to be anxious for the weekend and to play the final two rounds here?  
KYLE STANLEY:   Yeah, I'm excited.   I think the results of my play, at least it shows me that I'm working on the right things.   I'm trying to be kind of process oriented.   36 holes, that's a lot of golf, and we'll see if we can make something happen.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT