FRYS.COM OPEN
October 10, 2013
Kyle Stanley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Nice playing.   5‑under par 66 in the opening round here at the Frys.com.   Talk me through your round.   
KYLE STANLEY:   Yeah, I'm really happy with it.   Started off kind of slow with that bogey at the first, but made a couple 6, 7‑footers for par at my second and third hole and that got my putter going.  
I think I only missed one or two greens, so pretty boring round golf.   A lot of fairways, a lot of greens, and took advantage of the par‑5s, and was able to sneak a couple on the par‑4s as well.  
   
 Q.   The eagle on 15 was a nice boost.   3‑under par coming into that hole.   That hole played downwind today.   Talk about that.   
KYLE STANLEY:   Yeah, it was.   It's not playing very long.   We had driver, 6‑iron so played more like a par‑4.   Gave myself a pretty good look at it and hit a good putt, so it was nice to ‑‑ hoping to get away with a 4 there, but coming away with 3 was nice.  
   
 Q.   You made it through Barclays and 108 on the FedExCup last year.   What's been your mindset over the last couple weeks?   Have you hit the reset button?   Do you feel like you're actually starting the season all over?  
KYLE STANLEY:   Yeah, tried to.   It's been weird.   I kind of had about a month off.   Took about two and a half to three weeks of that off.   Didn't do much golf.   
Then kind of got back into it last week.   I think the difference is I feel mentally pretty refreshed and ready to go.   I knew it could take that long to get some of the physical aspects of my game back, but mentally I feel good.   I'm excited to play golf.   I think that's a good thing.   
   
 Q.   On the front nine you go 5‑under.   What was the difference between the opening and closing nine?  
KYLE STANLEY:   I've been scaring the hole.   You know, most of the front nine couldn't really get them to drop.   You know, kind of on the back nine I just continued to keep hitting greens, give myself good looks, and was able to make a couple.  
Stole one on that par‑5, which was nice.   Took advantage of 17, which was a birdie hole.   Just a pretty solid round overall.  
   
 Q.   What a way to kick off the new season for you.   With that being said, with the season starting here at the Frys.com in October, does it feel different?   If so, how much?   
KYLE STANLEY:   It's a little different, but my last event was the Barclays so I had about a month off.   About three weeks of that I totally took off, so I was feeling mentally pretty refreshed coming into this week and pretty excited to play golf.  
Most of the time this time of year golf is kind of optional, this is a new year and full FedEx points and all that, mentally doesn't take much to get into it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT