THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE INSURANCE
June 1, 2013
Kyle Stanley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How was it out there today?  
    KYLE STANLEY:   The course was playing really difficult.   You have to be patient.   This course is difficult without wind.   And if you have the kind of wind we had today, it was really hard.   I hung in there and was really happy with my score today.  
   
 Q.   With that said, what's your mindset going into tomorrow?  
    KYLE STANLEY:   Yeah, I have to keep doing what I'm doing.   I'm playing well right now and putting well, which is key.   Yeah, just keeping playing well and see what happens.  
   
 Q.   With the course conditions like this three days in a row, explain to the average person out there how tough it is to do what you guys do?  
    KYLE STANLEY:   Yeah, it's hard.   Probably the main thing is like today the wind was swirling, it wasn't like one direction.   So it was really tough to get your yardages down with your irons.   Today was kind of like a field day, just hit a lot of feel shots [].   And just play true golf, really.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
    KYLE STANLEY:   A little bit.   A little bit.  
   
 Q.   How does it change your approach when you go into a Sunday, do you feel more confident, more at ease or is it a grind every time?  
    KYLE STANLEY:   Yeah, it is.   It's hard to win out here.   But just been in that position a few times.   Gets you a little more comfortable.   Just kind of something you're used to as opposed to never having been there before.   So, yeah, it will probably calm me down a little bit tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   I read you have a superstition about the color blue?  
    KYLE STANLEY:   I used to, not really anymore.   That was years ago.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel like you got penalized at all today?  
    KYLE STANLEY:   Yeah, pretty much.   I felt like I played pretty well.   My short game was good.   You just have to kind of grind it out.   A lot of 5, 6, 7‑footers for par to keep the round going.   Probably wasn't my best day, but I hung in there and probably as good as it could be.  
   
 Q.   How hard are the finishing holes, compared to what you see around the Tour?  
    KYLE STANLEY:   It's hard.   16 plays a little bit downwind.   
    17 plays a little bit downwind.   That's definitely helpful.   If you play into the wind, it would be very difficult.   But it makes it a little more easy.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT