THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE INSURANCE
May 30, 2013
Kyle Stanley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Pretty fast putt there at the end?
    KYLE STANLEY:   Yeah, especially after I saw Scott's.   On the radio I said, he can just breathe.

Q.   Kyle, great opening round, what was the key for you today, because that looked really solid out there?
    KYLE STANLEY:   Yeah, took advantage of the par‑5s today which was nice.   I think I birdied every single one of them.   I had a chip in on 1 which was kind of a bonus.
    I hit it really well.   The wind kind of picked up late, but I left the ball in the right spots and made some putts.

Q.   The greens are really fast.   Do you like them this fast?
    KYLE STANLEY:   Yeah, they're fast and they're true.   So if you hit a good putt, there's a good chance that it will go in.   So they are very quick, but they're running as good as I've seen. 

Q.   I know it's early in the week, but all points‑‑ all things are pointing to you really having a great week.   You've been working hard and getting good results?
    KYLE STANLEY:   Yeah, I'm a hard worker for sure.   My game has started coming around, started coming around last month.   Budweiser I played well and Charlotte.   And it was nice to get a couple of good, complete events in with the new equipment.   I'm pretty confident at the moment.   I'm working on the right things.   It's a process.   Just got to keep working and try to get better. 

Q.   Talk a little bit about the round.   Obviously you can't win it today, but you got off to a great start. 
    KYLE STANLEY:   Yeah, it was good.   I think the key today is I took advantage of the par‑5s, which was nice.   And I it got kind of windy there late.   I left them in all the right spots and made in putts. 

Q.   It looks like the guys that went off earlier today are definitely going to have an advantage, because the wind is going to get worse?
    KYLE STANLEY:   It was fairly benign early.   There wasn't much of it until we got to maybe our 12th or 13th hole and then it started to pick up a little bit.   The afternoon should play a little bit more difficult.

Q.   Some of the guys coming in today were a little bit surprised that the greens were pretty receptive this morning?
    KYLE STANLEY:   They were, yeah.   I played nine yesterday and there wasn't a whole lot of change in between yesterday and today.   They're rolling pretty quick.   But they're rolling good, as well. 

Q.   Finish with a nice birdie on the day.   Talk about that putt there on 9. 
    KYLE STANLEY:   Yeah, that was nice.   I had a few in my practice rounds, and it was extremely fast.   It can get away from you pretty quick.   It started right where I wanted to and fortunately got in there.

Q.   Head into tomorrow, just the mindset?
    KYLE STANLEY:   Yeah, keep doing what I've been doing.   I feel like I have a good plan for this week and this course, just got to keep executing the shots. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT