FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 23, 2013
Kyle Stanley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Back here at Torrey Pines.   The last time you were here at Torrey Pines, it was quite a memory for you.   Probably not the memory you like.   But when you think back about it, what do you think? 
    KYLE STANLEY:   I really positive thoughts about it.   I think it was really good for me.   It made me tough, and I played some great golf.   So, I think, if anything, it was an eye opener for me to kind of if I get things going I can win.

Q.   After the round, you showed obviously a lot of emotion.   It was very raw and real.   Are you an emotional guy like that or is that something that you've never experienced before? 
    KYLE STANLEY:   No, I'm pretty emotional.   That was that was just hard to take.   I had my parents here, and it was a dream to win out here.   And I'm glad I did it in Phoenix.   But yeah, it was pretty difficult.

Q.   Then you bounced back to win at Phoenix.   I mean, that's pretty remarkable. 
    KYLE STANLEY:   Yeah, I don't know.   To bounce back like that mentally for me I was really happy about that. 
    But, you know, I was playing good golf.   I just kept telling myself that, and fortunately it's continued.

Q.   Two weeks back‑to‑back you come close, and then you win.   Where do you learn more?   When you come close or you actually do win?
    KYLE STANLEY:   Probably when you come close.   Because you can always look back and say, okay, what could I have done differently to kind of change the outcome?   When you win, there are not a lot of things that you would probably do differently, obviously than when you come out on top. 
    So I would say I learned a lot about myself, about my game, my emotions coming down the stretch.

Q.   What were your emotions like coming down the stretch? 
    KYLE STANLEY:   Here?   You know, actually, it was pretty good.   I putted great coming in.   I had a lot of nice par saves.   I mean, yeah, anytime you're in contention like that for the first time, you're going to have some nerves. 

Q.   When you come to 18 the first time you play, will you have that bad image of the ball going in the water? 
    KYLE STANLEY:   No.   I've birdied it a lot more times than I have made an 8.   So, that probably won't happen again.

Q.   So, coming in this week, how do you feel about your game?   How do you feel about your chances of winning this tournament this week? 
    KYLE STANLEY:   Yeah, I feel good.   The results haven't really been there, but the South course sets up so good for me.   So it's nice to kind of get back there and have some good vibes.   We can try to get going in the right direction this week.

Q.   I think you won a lot of fans over last year even though you didn't win.   Did you feel that way too? 
    KYLE STANLEY:   Yeah, I got a ton of support.   I wasn't really expecting it, but it was great.   My friends, and people I didn't even know, a lot of people showed a lot of love, and that was nice of them.   I appreciate it.




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT