TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 23, 2018
Kyle Stanley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Wasn't the finish you wanted on 18, but 65 is still your best round at this championship in nine appearances.  How important was that front nine there?  Birdied two of the first three holes.  
KYLE STANLEY: Yeah, got off to a nice start.  You know, the first couple days I feel like we were on our second shots and approach shots just kind of had a lot of tweener numbers.  Then today just had quite a few good numbers coming into these greens.   
The greens are so good.  You get your putts online, and you're going to make some.  All in all not the ideal way to finish.  18's playing pretty long, but still really happy with 5-under.   
 Q.  Considering these chilly conditions today, we had a little drizzle, and the winds were up-and-down, how good was that 65 for you?  
KYLE STANLEY: Yeah, I live in Seattle, so it's a pretty typical day for us.  So I was definitely comfortable.  But I think with the rain this morning it maybe softened the golf course a little bit.  But it's in such good condition this year.  Like you said, this is my ninth year here, and I can't remember the greens being much better, so they've done a great job getting the golf course set up.  I think we'll see some more good scores out there today.   
 Q.  65 today gets you back in contention in the tournament.  Just some thoughts on your round?  
KYLE STANLEY: Yeah, I mean, really happy with it.  I just felt like we landed on some really good numbers today for our second shots and with the wind being, you know -- without much wind, we were able to get somewhat aggressive.  These greens are in really good shape, and I feel pretty comfortable on the greens and having some putts going as well.  All in all, a pretty good moving day.   
 Q.  Seems like you've sort of been trending in this direction for a while now.  How come?  
KYLE STANLEY: Oh, gosh, I don't know.  I'm just really comfortable with what I'm doing out there.  My preparation has been really good.  Sometimes when you put the time in, maybe it might not pay off the next week.  But, yeah, just from a preparation standpoint, I feel like we're doing the right things.  You know, getting a little bit older and figuring out maybe how to play some of these golf courses better.  Yeah, I'm just really comfortable with what I'm doing.   
 Q.  You put yourself in a pretty good position for tomorrow.  When you're one of the top two pairings, does that put any added pressure on you the last day?  
KYLE STANLEY: I mean, not really.  I think we all -- maybe a little bit because you're close to the lead, but, you know, it's a place where you want to be.   
Once we get out there and start playing the golf course, we get so wrapped up in kind of what we're doing that I wouldn't really say it makes too much of a difference.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT