WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 8, 2012
Kyle Stanley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  KYLE STANLEY:   It was a pretty boring round.   I feel like I hit a lot of greens, drove it pretty well.     You know, made a couple birdies there on the front nine, which was my back and I took advantage of a couple par 5s on that back side there.   You know, also controlled my ball pretty well.   It was very windy out there all day. 

Q.   Are you generally a very good wind player? 
KYLE STANLEY:   I mean, yeah, I'd say ball‑striking is probably one of my strengths.   And I think this is kind of a ball‑striker's course, and if you hit solid shots, the wind is probably not going to do much to them.

Q.   There are not that many players ahead of you right now, what's your strategy going into round two? 
KYLE STANLEY:   There's a lot of golf left.   I just have to keep doing what I'm doing.   Just kind of keep plotting my way around the golf course and just kind of let good rounds come to me. 

Q.   On a day like today with good scores, Adam Scott is 6‑under, but also scores like 5‑ or 6‑over; if you make a couple mistakes in the wind, you can almost put yourself out of contention the first day.   Pretty good position after the first day: 
KYLE STANLEY:   Yeah, I feel good.   Like 18, for example, if you don't drive it in the fairway there, you're looking at at least bogey there, probably double.   There's some water holes. 
But yeah, you just have to drive your golf ball and if you keep it in play, then you can score. 

Q.   Since you won and you're getting into the World Golf Championships and Masters and things like, that have you re‑evaluated your season in terms of goals and things like that, or is it just try to play as well as you can every week? 
KYLE STANLEY:   Yeah, I have obviously some goals, but the goals I'm really kind of focusing on are process ones and just trying to get better.   If I keep continuing to work on my weak spots and try to make them better, then I'll be fine.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT