FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 26, 2012
Kyle Stanley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  DOUG MILNE:   Kyle, thanks for joining us.   Great opening round today capped off by a spectacular eagle there at the last.   10‑under 62 today, just some opening thoughts about the round, and then we'll take a few questions.   
KYLE STANLEY:   It was good.   You know, I know it was a 62, but it was a pretty boring round of golf.   Hit a lot of greens and made a lot of putts.   
DOUG MILNE:   Take us through the eagle on the last, just your clubs and so forth.  
KYLE STANLEY:   Yeah, I hit driver off the tee really well.   I got 173 to the pin, and made a little cut 8.   
DOUG MILNE:   8, wow, that's impressive.   Okay, with that, we'll take a few questions.  
   
 Q.   Are you surprised to be sitting here with this score today, or did you feel like you were playing this way coming into the tournament?   
KYLE STANLEY:   I didn't play very well last week, but I spent Monday up at Titleist and figured a few things out and started hitting it really well.   I played the Pro‑Am on the North course yesterday.   There were just a lot of birdie opportunities out there, so I knew there was a good score.   Maybe not 10, but I'll take it.  
   
 Q.   What did you figure out at Titleist or what did they help you figure out?   
KYLE STANLEY:   I think it was just my alignment.   I was setting up way out, so it was causing me to go really in‑to‑out on the downswing, so just squared things up a little bit.  
   
 Q.   When you finish the round with an eagle, what does that do for you?   You looked pretty even tempered right now, but.   
KYLE STANLEY:   Yeah, it's nice.   It's nice.   I think just a round like today gives you confidence that you're doing the right things.  
   
 Q.   How long was the putt on 18?   
KYLE STANLEY:   Two feet, three feet.  
   
 Q.   How ideal are the scoring conditions out there, and where does this score fit in for you in terms of the best you've had?   
KYLE STANLEY:   Gosh, actually I think 62 is my lowest.   It's definitely my lowest out here.   But the course is in good shape, the fairways are nice, the greens are soft, but you can just be pretty aggressive with your irons.   You've got to hit solid putts.   If you don't hit solid putts, it will bump up on you.  
   
 Q.   For the casual golfer out there, what does it say to the depth on TOUR that you can be there at 10‑under with a guy like Spencer that maybe aren't household names?  
KYLE STANLEY:   I don't know.   I think if you're out here, you're obviously pretty good.   But the past couple of years there's been a lot of young guys that are starting to play well.  
   
 Q.   What did you have into 18?   
KYLE STANLEY:   173.  
   
 Q.   What did you hit?   
KYLE STANLEY:   8‑iron.  
   
 Q.   So driver, 8‑iron.   You don't see that very much on par‑5s even out here.   
KYLE STANLEY:   No, I mean, I hit yesterday.   It was downwind today.   But yesterday in the Pro‑Am I hit a really good drive, and hit 4‑iron in.   So the wind helped a little bit.  
   
 Q.   How long was your driver would you estimate?   
KYLE STANLEY:   380, maybe.   Not bad for 160 pounds.  
   
 Q.   Are you one of the longest hitters out here?   
KYLE STANLEY:   I don't know about that.   I think last year I finished Top 10.   But you take a guy like Gary Woodland, I can't keep up with him.  
   
 Q.   Is 380 maybe your longest ever?   
KYLE STANLEY:   It's probably close.  
   
 Q.   What did you think of the North course before this round?   What was your feeling about going in?   
KYLE STANLEY:   I liked it.   I think I maybe shot 5 or 6 on it last year.   So, you know, it's a course I like.   It's pretty straightforward though.   Like I said, there are a lot of birdies.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT