STATE FARM EVERT CUP
March 10, 1997
Asa Carlsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.   Slow start today.  You didn't start very fast.

ASA CARLSSON:  No.  I had a very bad start. Well, I played -- I am not happy the way I played today.  I have been playing so much better the other two matches, and it is pretty frustrating.


Q.   Was it anything in particular that wasn't working?

ASA CARLSSON:  No, just missing too much.  I was too impatient and I couldn't wait for the right ball to come.  I mean, I played good some points, but it was too much up and down.


Q.   Second set looked like you played better.

ASA CARLSSON:  Yeah, second set was better than the first.  I mean, there were some more rallies in the second set and I got into the match a little bit  better in the second set.  But, I felt I could have done much better.


Q.   Why do you feel like you didn't play as well as you could?

ASA CARLSSON:  Because I felt like -- I mean, I hit -- few rallies were very good and I mean, I know I can play -- I can play that level, but, when you don't do it, you feel inside you can do it, but it doesn't come out.  It is there somewhere, but --


Q.   How do you feel Arantxa played today?

ASA CARLSSON:  Well, I mean, she didn't hit that many winners.  I had nothing to be afraid of.  So that is also why it was so frustrating because I mean, she didn't hit any winners.  I had nothing to be afraid of and I did all the mistakes.


Q.   After Silvia Farina lost to Arantxa she came in here and said that that she feels that Arantxa doesn't have the confidence she once possessed.  How do you feel about that?

ASA CARLSSON:  Yeah, I mean, because she had -- she had-- hit a lot of short balls and I mean, she didn't hit any winners on my short shots.  I had nothing to be afraid of.  And, I felt that she had -- yeah, she didn't have the right shots.  I thought she was going to hit a little bit harder on those chances I  gave her, but --


Q.   A lot of folks seem to think she is going to win this tournament.  Do you?

ASA CARLSSON:  No, I don't think so.  Well, it is hard to say.  I mean, it is hard to tell because I mean, the more matches she plays, the more confidence she is going to get.  So, it depends who she plays, but I mean, there is some tough players still in the tournament like Davenport, Martinez, so it is hard to tell.


End of FastScripts....


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT