U.S. OPEN
August 30, 1996
Asa Carlsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  So what did you do this week that you didn't do last week?
 
ASA CARLSSON:  Well, I let her play more.  I mean, I was playing more safe from the baseline.  I think I came in on the right shots this time.  I was just fighting very, very hard the whole match. 
 

Q.  How do you feel after she won the second set?
 
ASA CARLSSON:  Well, I was up 3-2.  I felt kind of I was near to win.  I mean, I felt I could win the match. Then I got a little bit nervous and didn't move as well as I did in the beginning.  I was lucky, though, in the second game of the third set.  That kind of turned the whole thing around. 
 

Q.  You played that point where you got the tremendous applause, remember?
 
ASA CARLSSON:  Yeah. 
 

Q.  At that point you hadn't been doing too well. After, you seemed too to go on a real sizzle.  Did you take  some encouragement from that point?
 
ASA CARLSSON:  Yes.  That was a big point to win. That kind of got me going and I was playing much, much better after that point. 
 

Q.  How big after victory is this for you?
 
ASA CARLSSON:  This is my biggest victory in my career. 
 

Q.  Do you think this might be one of the biggest victories in the history of women's tennis?
 
ASA CARLSSON:  No, I don't think so (laughter). 
 

Q.  Name a bigger one.
 
ASA CARLSSON:  I don't know right now. 
 

Q.  What's made you turn around?
 
ASA CARLSSON:  I haven't played that well, since last week.  I won very well in San Diego.  I won a round there, then lost to Gaby in a good match.  This I think made my year much, much better than I thought it would be. 
 

Q.  You've had a bad year up until now.  What's made the difference?
 
ASA CARLSSON:  Sorry? 
 

Q.  What's made the difference between earlier in the year and now?  Why has it been working the last couple of weeks?
 
ASA CARLSSON:  I didn't win that much matches, I  lost confidence.  When you start winning, I mean, your confidence gets bigger and bigger.  You feel it's much easier to play again. 
 

Q.  Is there any reason why women players in Sweden haven't had the same success that men have had?
 
ASA CARLSSON:  If there's a reason? 
 

Q.  Is there a reason?
 
ASA CARLSSON:  Well, there are just not too many girls playing tennis in Sweden, actually. 
 

Q.  Why not?
 
ASA CARLSSON:  What? 
 

Q.  Why not?
 
ASA CARLSSON:  I think they're doing other sports like soccer, horse riding, whatever.  I mean, the guys, they had someone to look at when they were younger.  They had Edberg, Wilander, Borg.  I don't know if that's the reason. I guess it is. 
 

Q.  How tough is it to win this match when the crowd is all cheering for Gaby and she's won this tournament before?
 
ASA CARLSSON:  Well, I mean, I thought the crowd was a little bit with me also.  I felt when I was winning good points, I felt they were clapping for me, too.  I just tried to fight the whole time and go for the shots, so I put pressure on her. 
 

Q.  Are you intimidated at all by her coming into  this?  I know you played her last week.  Other players have talked about how they're not intimidated by Sabatini anymore.  Were you intimidated by her?
 
ASA CARLSSON:  No.  Like I say, I played her last week.  I felt I could win the match today because when I played her last week, I played well, but I lost the second set.  I was up 5-3.  I knew if I just played a little bit better, I could have a good chance. 
 

Q.  Why aren't people afraid of her, do you think, anymore?
 
ASA CARLSSON:  They're not?  I don't know.  I mean, she's still a very good player.  I mean, she makes you move all-around the court and you get very tired when you play her.  I don't know why. 
 

Q.  How far can you go from here?
 
ASA CARLSSON:  From here?  I mean, I think I proved that I beat her.  She's No. 14 in the world, and I beat her.  I think I have a good chance to come closer to the top players. 
 

Q.  Did you play as well as you ever have today or not?
 
ASA CARLSSON:  No.  I mean, I'm very happy because I could play well on the big points today.  In the third set, when I was up, I just felt that I could play a little bit better and I could hold my level.  That felt very good for me. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT