PENN STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 9, 2018
Cam Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What do you remember about Michigan State's quarterback from the game last year and what have you seen on tape this year from him?
CAM BROWN: What I remember is the fact that he can move well.  He moves better than some of the quarterbacks we've seen.  He likes to throw the ball, I mean, if that's -- I don't know if they are always accurate but his receivers just make good plays.
For us, it's the same as usual.  It's like practicing against Trace again, knowing you have to worry about the run and worry about the throw at the same time.
Q. There's a lot of reps spread across the linebacker group throughout September, but by the end of it, you were getting a large, large percentage of that.  How do you feel like you developed through those five games, maybe where you're at game six versus where you were when you hit the field for App State?
CAM BROWN: Honestly I feel the biggest difference in me is my conditioning.  I feel I can go 100 percent the whole game.  I feel like the guys around me are still supporting me and helping many he get better every time, like Koa and Jan.  They help me with little things on the field.
As a whole unit, as a whole unit, I feel like everybody has moved forward very well.
Q. Building off talking about the whole unit, can you evaluate the linebackers as a position group, what do you think you're doing particularly well now, what are some areas that you need to improve upon?
CAM BROWN: Honestly I think that what we're doing well is we're moving to the ball and we're playing fast, sideline-to-sideline really well but honestly I feel like we have room to improve, like filling our gaps and being 100 percent sure on our run fits.  But other than that, I feel like the guys are playing at a high level.
Q. Who has been the biggest surprise to you at linebacker so far this season?
CAM BROWN: The biggest surprise, that's a tough question.  I want to say Jan Johnson, his athleticism is showing that he's more athletic than some people give him credit for.  I mean, I believed that he was faster and that he can make the plays that he's making.  But to see it come to fruition on the field is a big thing for him.
Q. When you guys get into third-and-long there's a subpackage where you have four DNs on the front four.  What's that like as a linebacker to have a guy like Gross-Matos as like a D-tackle?  Kind of a scary thing for the offense but for you, what's that like?
CAM BROWN: Oh, I know that the quarterback is going to be getting the ball in a hurry.  I know that up front, their pass-rush is ridiculous.  That's pretty much the plan when you put four DNs is, to get the speed on the field.  And with them it gives you a confidence boost that you can sit in your coverage and you won't be sitting there long.
Q. What was this bye week like for you, were you able to watch some games, and how did you reflect on -- I know you've moved on from the Ohio State game, but how have you reflected on that and moved forward?
CAM BROWN: It's been less so, less reflecting, and more so watching film on Michigan State and rest and perfect the things that we did wrong in the last game.
But now, right now, we're just moving on and trying to figure out what we've got to do to stop these guys.
Q. What was maybe said or done in terms of not letting this steam role go into another week?  Who maybe stepped up and said, okay, it's one game, you're moving on?  How did the leaders on this team approach that?
CAM BROWN: I feel like it wasn't one person.  I feel like it's everybody.  We're on to the next game.  It's a mentality.  It's kind of what we've been going with for the last two, three years, just the next game up.  I feel like the team knows, we have to move on and not let it be the end of our season, so we're going to come in and beat Michigan State this week.
Q. What about the weird lightning delay last year?  What were you doing in the locker room in that time and as you look back on it, what sticks with you?
CAM BROWN: We had a rough game.  That's all I can really say.  That delay didn't really help.  We didn't come out as strong as we could have.  I don't really know.  There's not much you can say about a three-hour delay in a game.
Q. When you're sitting there in that moment?
CAM BROWN: It got to the point where we were playing -- when we kept hearing the delays going on, we were playing Hangman in there and we would talk to the coaches here and there.  It was kind of like -- we had no -- too much time.
Q. Is like an ace Hangman player on the team?
CAM BROWN: I honestly couldn't remember anybody who won or who is doing good.  I'm pretty sure Mark was pretty good at it.
Q. Coach Franklin mentioned kind of this striving for 1 percent better in whatever it may be, whether it's classroom, on the field, preparation throughout the week.  What is that 1 percent for you what do you think that means for you individually?
CAM BROWN: For this week, especially for me, it was recovery, just getting back to where I can run and play as fast as I could after that game.
Q. You said you watched film over the bye week.  First three quarters, the defense looked great against Ohio State.  Fourth quarter, a little bit of a lapse and a couple other times throughout the year.  Is there a common thread when you have those kind of lulls defensively and what can you kind of do as a unit to overcome that going forward?
CAM BROWN: I mean, as a unit, we're moving on.  We're trying to think of ways that we can fix the problems.  It's not like a continuous problem that's going on.  I feel like each game it's something a little bit different.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT