SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 3, 2016
Nikki Fargas
Alexis Hyder
Akilah Bethel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Kentucky - 79   
LSU - 71   
THE MODERATOR: We're joined by LSU.   
Coach, your opening thoughts on today's game.   
COACH FARGAS: Well, obviously the game didn't play out the way that we had hoped for.  But I'm extremely proud to be the head coach of these LSU Lady Tigers.  They have shown what it means to play through and handle adversity.  They've shown what it means to stay together and the true meaning of family.  They've shown that even through tough times, you still have to have less quit in you.  That's what today's game was about.   
THE MODERATOR: We'll take questions.   
 Q.  Coach, can you talk about the three-minute span in the first quarter where they scored 14 straight points, and you never could catch up.  How frustrating was it to be behind like that?  
COACH FARGAS: Well, I think you look statistically, the first quarter is where we really lost the game.  Offensively our execution wasn't there.  They did a nice job of capitalizing off of our turnovers, which led to layups and three-point plays.   
When you play a team like Kentucky, you always want to focus in on the couple of areas.  Those areas are definitely not allowing them to get their running game going or allowing them to get on the offensive glass.   
To send a team to the free-throw line 10 times in one quarter, that's way too many times for us.  I thought that was a factor also in the first quarter.   
 Q.  For the players, could you give a description of your performance today with double-doubles.  
AKILAH BETHEL: Well, basically down the stretch I didn't want the season to end.  I wanted to play hard for my team and do whatever I had to do to try to continue the journey.   
ALEXIS HYDER: We were struggling offensively, so we were trying to get anything possible.  Personally I was trying to do everything to help the team to get us going.  You only need so many plays to get our momentum going.  That was my intent.  I didn't really want this to end for our seniors, I wanted them to have a longer push.  That was my motivation.   
THE MODERATOR: Coach, ladies, thank you very much.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT