MLB WORLD SERIES: CUBS VS INDIANS
October 28, 2016
Josh Tomlin
Cody Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Cleveland Indians - 1, Chicago Cubs - 0
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Josh and Cody.
Q. Josh, Terry came out and got you.  You were only at 58 pitches, allowed only three base runners through 4 2/3.  Were you surprised he came and got you at that point?
JOSH TOMLIN: No, I wasn't surprised at all.  That bullpen has done an unbelievable job for us all year long.  And the situation we're in now, pinch-hitter coming up, that's probably your best option.  I get it.
So, no, I mean, there's no questioning that.  Our job is to try to go out there and win a game, and his job is to manage to win a game.  So I totally get it.  It's fine.
Q. Cody, as a closer you find yourself in difficult situations, but tonight in the 9th, with the winning run at second, what was that experience like?
CODY ALLEN: Yeah, we were in a little bit of a jam there.  There's a good hitter at the plate, but that's one of those situations you kind of, you know, think about throughout the season or throughout Spring Training or even as a kid.  You play that at-bat over in your mind a few times.
But in that situation all you're trying to do is slow the game down as much as possible, and just try to make one good pitch.  Then after that one, you just try to make another one.  So we were fortunate enough to string a few good pitches together there and get the last out.
Q. Cody, what was it like having Yan back there for the first time all postseason?
CODY ALLEN: It was awesome.  Whoever's back there, it's always great to shake their hand at the end of the game.  But a guy like Yan, who's had the type of year he's had, it's great to see him get in the ballgame.  He had a really good at-bat there in the 9th.  And then to be able to work with him throughout that last 9th inning and shake hands at the end of the game, that was awesome.
Q. Just following up on that, you bury a curveball there in the dirt, I think it was 2-1 on Baez.  How much confidence do you have to throw that pitch with the runner on third base with some of the guys you have catching you here?
CODY ALLEN: Yeah, every single one of our guys, Roberto and Yan, they've been here for a few years now.  So every guy on our staff has all the confidence in the world to be able to bury a pitch like that with a tying run at third base.  They've done an unbelievable job ever since they've been here.  They just continue to do that.
Q. You guys have sort of proven that wherever the jam is, the inning, wherever it comes up, that's the most important inning.  But what's it like for you in the 9th inning, what do you enjoy about being the last guy that gets the final outs of the game?  What about that syncs up with your mentality?
CODY ALLEN: It's enjoyable to be out there, to be on the field, to live that moment of getting the last out and feeling the emotions of getting a win.  To be on the field and to do that, that's a special feeling.  But being on the bench or having already pitched or sitting in the bullpen, and when your team gets the last out and you've won the ballgame, it's incredible, too.  But to be out there to be the last one to get the out, that's pretty fortunate.
Q. Josh, what did you think about your match-up with Kyle Hendricks?  You both didn't give up the run, yet you're out of the game in the 5th inning.
JOSH TOMLIN: I think that's the situation we're in right now.  It's the World Series.  There are no more series after this, so you've got to do everything you can to try to win right now and win today.  Regular season's probably a little bit different, but, you know, it's not regular season.  It's a World Series game.  When stuff starts happening, you go to guys that are probably a little more fresh, and that have maybe a little bit better stuff that can put a guy away in situations like when Andrew came in.
I'm a contact guy.  Any guy can poke a ball through the hole, get a double, and the game's changed.  So you bring a guy in like Miller, in that situation and try to get him put him away, and it kind of prolongs the time for the offense to try to string something together and try to get a run, and then let the back-end guys nail it down.
Q. Cody, obviously, Baez is known to be a pretty aggressive swinger, just what was your mindset and plan and approach there in that big spot in the 9th against him for the final out?
CODY ALLEN: We had a pretty good plan against him, but obviously you've got to execute.  So we were just trying to execute some good pitches.  We weren't going to give in to him.  We had first base open, but you obviously don't want to load the bases.  There's a dangerous hitter behind him.  So when you load the bases in a situation like that, it can shrink the plate a little bit, because when you get behind in the count, you have nowhere to put him.
So we were going to go after him, but we were also going to be careful.  So Yan and I put together a game plan and stuck with it and tried to execute some pitches.
Q. Josh, with everything that your dad's been through, can you talk about the emotion of doing what you did tonight knowing that he was in the yard?
JOSH TOMLIN: I think I've probably said it more times than I've probably should, but it was probably one of my more emotional starts I've ever had in my entire life, career, any situation baseball related ever.  I'm fortunate enough for him to even be here.  So to have him get to experience a World Series game and obviously my first World Series start, it meant everything.
I found him before the game that way I could kind of go to him throughout the course of the game, if the game was speeding up to me, just to find that sense of calm there.  What he's gone through, I mean, that's nothing to what we're going through right now.  So to be able to find him and see him in the stands, it kind of calmed me down and just let me go out there and settle into the game and try to go out there and do the best that I could for him.
Q. Cody, you've come a long way in the last five years.  I mean, from not being a really high draft pick or whatever, but you've had consistent success your whole career.  What is the biggest way you've changed or improved on since coming into pro ball?
CODY ALLEN: That's a tough question.  I think you're always just trying to get better.  You try to get better, you try to adapt.  But you also don't want to change the things that have made you good.  So anytime you have any type of failure on a day-to-day basis, that doesn't mean it's going to be prolonged failure.
So I think our staff here and our development department within the organization did an unbelievable job.  There's a lot of core guys here.  I've been with Josh here for the last five years and Tito's been here for four, Mickey's been here for four years.  So whenever things start to kind of go awry a little bit, they're there to kind of help you through it, but also give you the confidence to know, hey, don't reinvent yourself.  Just kind of stick with it, make some small adjustments.
Just the other thing is just taking each day as its own day.  If you blow a save on Saturday, it doesn't mean you're going to be bad on Sunday.  So I think the one thing that this team has done a really good job of is showing up to the ballpark every single day and trying to stay in the moment of that day, not thinking about what happened yesterday.  Not thinking about what could possibly happen tomorrow.  Just trying to stay in the moment of now.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT