BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 19, 2015
Flavia Pennetta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. LISICKI/F. Pennetta
  6‑4, 6‑7, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Not obviously the result you wanted, but phenomenal run as defending champion and a great match for you. 
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   Yeah, I think it was a really good match.   We played really well the third set both, and was a good fight until the last point.   Everything happened tonight.   Match point for one, match point for the other one. 
I mean, sport is like this.   Tennis is like this.   I'm happy about the match, but of course I am upset, because when you are there you want to win it.
But I think was really good match for the crowd, for everything, for us.

Q.   Did the energy really start to build as the match went on and they let the people in for the night session?   Because you had a pretty big crowd there toward the end. 
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   Yeah, it was a lot of crowd outside.   It's really nice here in U.S. always.   Of course like when there are so many people cheering for you you have more energy, of course.

Q.   It was such an emotional win over Maria.   Did you feel maybe at the start of this match it was a little bit of a letdown for you?   You couldn't really get into your rhythm?
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   I think I didn't start really aggressive from the beginning.   We never play each other, so I didn't know how to handle everything.
But after a while I starting to play a little bit better, more aggressive, and trying to hit hard.   I think the match was really good.

Q.   When she had match point on your serve, can you talk about what you did to kind of fight it off?   Seemed like after that match point you didn't give her another break point the rest of the match. 
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   I think that match point was the key for everything.   I already play aggressive on ‑‑was a little bit windy outside also today.   Was not easy to find a good position.
On that point I just decide to hit hard and try to play like really strong.   It was working, and from then I starting to play much better.
The match point I had, the three I had, I think she served really, really well.   I mean, I had chance on one.   The rest was like, I mean, was a good serve.

Q.   When you fought off match point and won the tiebreaker, did you have a feeling you were going to win this match?
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   Well, of course you believe you can.   Of course.   You don't know how and when, but of course you try to believe that you can win.

Q.   How proud are you of what you've accomplished here over the last two years?   Because when you won last year it was a pretty big surprise.   No one really saw you coming that year.   Then here you've backed it up; beat Sharapova who was No. 2; great match in the quarters. 
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   I'm really happy about the tournament.   Was a great tournament, and I really love to play this tournament.
Of course now I'm a little bit upset, because when you see like so close and it just go away, I mean, you are a little bit upset.
I'm happy about the tournament, about the way I play, and I think if I still playing like this, I have good chance to play much better in other tournament.

Q.   How do you take the feeling you have here and bring it to the rest of the world?
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   Positive.

Q.   How do you transfer it to the rest of the world?
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   How I'm feeling? 

Q.   Yeah. 
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   I mean, I'm really positive, I think.   I'm really happy about everything.
Also tonight I think was a good fight.   I cannot say nothing, like nothing wrong or nothing like ‑‑ just tennis, and tennis is like this.

Q.   You can play as well as you did here in the rest of the world?
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   I hope so.   (Smiling.)

Q.   After the match against Maria you talked about suddenly feeling the pressure, even just in one moment.   You worked through that.   You came back and you won.   Did you have any kind of lingering feelings like that in this match?
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   No, no.   Today I was ‑‑I mean, I think in that match I just pass the point where you have to take everything out. 
Today, I mean, I was perfect in the court and ready to do the match and ready to fight, and I think I did it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT