DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 15, 2015
Flavia Pennetta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 F. PENNETTA/J. Goerges
  2‑6, 7‑6, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You were facing match points and then everything changed.   How did you turn it around?  
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   How?   I don't know.   I just was playing until the last point and believe until the last point.   I was almost crying on the court today because I was feeling so bad.  
But I know sometimes you don't feel really good in the beginning of the year.   Last year I was really good in the beginning, and this year I tried to find my time and my good tennis.   But it's not coming.   I have to play with what I have now.   It's not too much.   
But I'm really ‑‑I like to fight, so this is important.   I think when you're starting fighting and lost or winning matches like this, you get closer to a good level.   For the moment I just accept.  
   
 Q.   How did you keep yourself from crying and back to fighting mode?  
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   My coach say I'm really tough in this way.   I mean, it's always not easy to confirm what do you do here before.   It's everyone waiting for result.   And also, I mean, you're working hard, you want to do good things.  
I was working really good in offseason, feeling good, but then when you go on the court it's completely different, everything.  
I was just thinking to put ball on court (smiling).   Don't do too many things.   Don't do difficult things.   Play easily and try to play every point.  
   
 Q.   Did you see her do something different when all those match points went away?   Could you feel her go away, as well?  
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   I mean, she's starting to ‑‑I think my level coming a little bit up and she going a little bit down.   So in that moment I was trying to just push a little bit more.   And in the third set, I mean, I was up 4‑1 and I starting to feel the pressure and it's coming in the opposite way.  
I mean, the last game for me was really ‑‑I think I played the best game of the match the last one with two good backhands, I tried to hit them over.   I mean, in the hand, after two hours and ten minutes, it's coming a little bit of good tennis.  
   
 Q.   Talk about the conditions.   You faced 19 break points today.   So was it difficult on serving in these conditions?  
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   No, no, it's just ‑‑I mean, it's not the condition.   The conditions are the same for everyone I think this year.   
I don't remember last year how was the ball, but this year I think the ball is getting really small and fast, and the court is not that fast but bouncing high.  
So the mix between the things, it's not easy to have a good feeling on the ball.   But I think is the same for everyone.  
   
 Q.   Now that you had over two hours you spent on court, do you think this will give you a bit of advantage going into the next match?  
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   Of course.   I mean, I think playing the most is important.   Doesn't matter how many hours you work and you practice.   What we need in the beginning of the season is playing match.   And playing singles, doubles, mixed, whatever, you have to play.   It's the only way to get through or to find the good rhythm.   
   
 Q.   You talked about last year you had a very good start to last year.   You won a very big title.   Tennis changes really quickly.   
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   Oh, so quickly.   
   
 Q.   How do you deal with that?   
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   We are used to.   I think it is the same in life.   Some years are perfect and amazing and some years it's a disaster.   You just keep going.   And I think if you work, you're still working and there is a moment where everything change and you don't know how and why.   It just change, because you are still there and still working and still doing what you have to do.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT