BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS
October 27, 2015
Flavia Pennetta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 F. PENNETTA/A. Radwanska
      7‑6, 6‑4 
  
    THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
   
 Q. Congratulations. In the first set it looked more that it was going Aga's way. How did you manage to change that around? Can you talk about the pep talk you got from your coach? Seemed to do the trick.   
    FLAVIA PENNETTA: Just came in the court and told me to be more aggressive, to be more with my backhand more than my forehand because I was not that sure all the time when I was pushing with the backhand and make some mistakes.  
    He just told me, You are there. If you make less of mistake the score is going to be the same, so just keep going and try to go for the shot.   
    I did it. (Laughter.) Was working.   
   
 Q. Can you talk about how important this win is. Obviously now you're 1‑1, a much better position in your group.   
    FLAVIA PENNETTA: Yes, of course it was important today to win this match, because like this I still have a little bit of chance, no? Depend of course of the match of tonight.  
    But it's good to be in this position, to have a chance to play another match. I will try to do my best and then we will see what can happen.   
   
 Q. Your next match is going to be Maria. You've given her a hard time in the past many times; you've had tough matches. Talk about what you enjoy about this matchup, if you do?  
    FLAVIA PENNETTA: Now, nothing. I don't enjoy nothing. I was enjoy this moment and then I have two days to think about Maria. Let me see the CD, talk about the garden.   
   
 Q. I'm sorry.   
    FLAVIA PENNETTA: No, it's okay. It's a joke. We play against so many times. Going to be really tough. I mean, like I say, whenever someone ask me how you think she going to be, I say to everyone, I think she's not 100% she will never come here just to play.  
    So the win she had against Radwanska the first match the first day was impressive. She play good. Of course she is healthy. She has this adrenaline because she was out for three or four months, something like that. When you come in the court after so long you are with a lot of energy. It's going to be tough for sure.   
    But the garden is going to be better.   
   
 Q. Congratulations. I just wanted to ask, can you talk a little bit about Radwanska's style of play and how difficult it is to play against her?  
    FLAVIA PENNETTA: It's really difficult to play against her because she's amazing the way she is in the court. She don't lose court. You have to run a lot with her. I mean, you really need to push her a lot and to push her behind the baseline.  
    If she's in the court with her foot, she's going to be like a mess for you. You just going to run and she going to be in charge of everything.  
    I think she's one of the smarter player in the tour. I mean, maybe she don't have a lot of power like the other one, but like the way she see the ball, the way she read everything in the court, it's amazing.   
   
 Q. Just your thoughts on on‑court coaching. Sometimes can be hard to hear and digest and use it in just one minute. How helpful do you think it is for you personally?  
    FLAVIA PENNETTA: For me it's good. When you are in the court you don't see a lot of things. Outside of the court you always see it much better.  
    So if my coach tell me to do something, doesn't matter how I have the feeling. If he ask me to do something, it's because it's not‑‑ I'm not do that in the court. So get in the court and told me, Okay, push more; try to be more aggressive. Doesn't matter if I feel I am already did it.  
    He say, No, try to do that. I say, Okay. I will try. (Smiling.) I mean, you don't have a lot of alternative. If you call him, it's just because he see everything much better. From outside you can see everything so easily and better.   
   
 Q. You said you're going to retire, and then today looks like you're not returning at all whatsoever. Talk a little bit about that.   
    FLAVIA PENNETTA: What do you mean? If I retire I cannot fight?   
   
 Q. But it looks like no nerves whatsoever. Is that the first time ever on court?  
    FLAVIA PENNETTA: Not really. The three match point that I have, oh, not really nice. But I try to enjoy. I mean, it's the last tournament of the year maybe‑‑ I mean, it's last moment really special for me.   
    I try to enjoy when I am in the court. Sometime I get pissed because I want to do better and I can't, but, I mean, I was happy to be on court and to have a chance to play against her.  
    I mean, here it's like you play final of Grand Slam every match, so try your best.  
   
 Q. So when are you on court you're thinking, Oh, my goodness this is the end?  
    FLAVIA PENNETTA: No.  
   
 Q. So then you stop thinking?  
    FLAVIA PENNETTA: I'm not thinking like this. I don't have this way to think. I mean, I don't go in the court and think, Oh, it's going to be maybe my last one or I have tomorrow, I have three more. I just go to the court and say, Okay, I have to play. That's it.   
    I don't know how it's happen, but it's like this.  
   
 Q. Can you just tell us about your foot. You had a medical timeout. Is it hurting or just a blister?  
    FLAVIA PENNETTA: Yeah, it's a blister. I have blisters.   
   
 Q. Your family is here with you and your father was watching and getting very excited.   
    FLAVIA PENNETTA: Always.  
   
 Q. Always. When is the last time that they have actually been in the crowd to watch you? They weren't in New York, I don't think, no?   
    FLAVIA PENNETTA: No. In New York, no. In Rome. They didn't come to Paris, so Rome was the last one.  
   
 Q. Have they always been stressed out when they watch you play?  
    FLAVIA PENNETTA: My dad? Now he's quiet. Now it's much better. Now it's relax. (Laughter.)  
   
 Q. That was him relaxed?  
    FLAVIA PENNETTA: Yes.  
   
 Q. Does it distract you at all when you look over there and see that?  
    FLAVIA PENNETTA: No, I'm used to. When I was young I was fighting with him all the time because he was really like stressful in the way you see. Sometime you see the face and you say, Papa, please don't do that.   
    I mean, but with the age you just try to adjust of everything. It's his way. I try to tell him to be more relax. He is much more relaxing. (Laughter.)  
    But he's still really passionate person.   
   
 Q. Do you expect to have your retirement ceremony in this tournament or some other place? Did WTA talk to you?  
    FLAVIA PENNETTA: No, we didn't talk about that. We didn't say nothing about that. Of course this one is going to be maybe my last match, but Rome I think is going to be the place where I going to feel it more. I'm more home, so...  
    But I don't know. We didn't plan something. We didn't talk about that. Maybe the day before or something they going to ask me something, but for the moment, nothing.   
   
 Q. Does that mean that you might play Rome or just say good‑bye in Rome?  
    FLAVIA PENNETTA: No. No, in Rome. I will go in Rome for sure to see everything. I mean, it's my home. It's the place when I was young always was my goal, no, to go there and play.  
    I think it's going to be nice to have something special in Rome, but not to play.   
   
 Q. Obviously the US Open with the Grand Slam title, but where else have been your favorite stops on this tour through the years?   
    FLAVIA PENNETTA: I always like a lot Acapulco. Was one of my best tournaments, the one I was feeling really home also.   
    Indian Wells become after I win. (Laughter.)  
    And then, I mean, there are‑‑ no, not really. I think Acapulco was the one I was feeling like home all time. Maybe that's why I play seven time the final there.   
   
 Q. You said the other day you would be around because you'll be traveling with Fabio and everything. Most people say it's a lot harder to be sitting and watching than playing?  
    FLAVIA PENNETTA: Much more for sure. I already know that.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT