BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 14, 2014
Flavia Pennetta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







F. PENNETTA/L. Na
  7‑6, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You seem pretty happy. 
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   I am.   (Smiling).   I have to be, no?   What do you think? 

Q.   What does this win mean to you?
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   Well, of course it's important.   Was a good match.   I think we play really good tennis tonight.   We fight a lot, and in Australia I didn't have any chance against her. 
Tonight I play much better.   I mean, I'm surprised also because I didn't think to ‑‑ in the beginning of the week if you ask me, What do you think?   You gonna make a final here.   I would say, Mmmm, I don't think so (smiling). 
But my tennis, it's good.   I am pretty happy in the way I play.   I fight and I try my best.   Of course I'm happy.

Q.   You were pretty brutal and honest with yourself at the quality of the match against Stephens. 
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   Well, yesterday was completely different match.   I mean, after the match I didn't have a good feeling, of course, but was completely different condition and everything.
Tonight the weather was perfect.   We play good.   Much better than yesterday.

Q.   What do you do now with playing Aga in the final?
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   What do I have to do?   I have to think now (smiling)? 
No.   I think I have to be really aggressive.   I have to be really aggressive.   I have to go for a winner but don't rush too much because she's a wall.   I mean, I have to make seven times the winner against her.
But I play really good in Dubai against her, so I hope to play in the same way.

Q.   When you decided to come back and not retire and keep playing, what was your goal?   I mean, you're making better results now than before. 
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   Last year I just say, Okay, if I finish the year top 100 it will be okay.   I finished 29, I think, so was much better (smiling). 
And this year I didn't think I want to be No. 50, 20, doesn't matter.   I mean, I was working really hard to for improve my game in some point to try to be more aggressive also.
Now I still in the same way.   I mean, I never had a goal.   I never had a big number in my mind.   Also before I always be like this. 

Q.   Did the support of the crowd tonight help you cross the line with Li Na, or were you very focused on yourself?
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   No.   I mean, the crowd in U.S. is always really nice with me.   I have to say they support me all the time, also when I play against U.S. player.   Like yesterday was not completely for Stephens.   I mean, was more or less also for me.
But in NewYork was amazing also with me.   All the time it's ‑‑ I remember one match against Zvonareva.   You remember also?   You remember? 

Q.   Have you ever just rewatched that match with the tape and... 
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   Oh, she get crazy (laughing.) 

Q.   Roberta and Francesca won their first matches this year at this tournament.   Did you feel like, Well, now I'm going to have to do something spectacular?
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   No, no, I mean, was really tough for both of them.   I mean, it's not always easy when you lose and lose and lose.   You think you're gonna never win again.   I know this kind of feeling, because one year I make nine first round in a rows.   So it's pretty bad. 
So I'm happy for them, and I think they gonna find the way to adjust and play better.   The season is so long.   We just start and we have seven month or eight, more or less. 

Q.   What was it like for you?   You were the one that broke through for Italy, made top 10 and things, and then Sara and Francesca and Roberta kind of came up. 
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   For Italy was a really important moment.   I mean, they waiting these moments since long time, and the moment when I finally get there, everyone get crazy.
But was nice, because I was in U.S. so I didn't have the feeling.   In Italy everyone was talking and talking.   Was too much.
So it was good to be away from everything.   But it's nice, because also like in that moment I think everyone realize we can do that. 
Also Francesca and then Sara, Roberta.   I mean, in the last six years we have amazing result in woman, and now we starting also in men.   It's good for Italy (smiling). 

Q.   Speaking of the men, what has Fabio's support been like?
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   His support?   He give me luck, so I have to ask him to stay for the final (smiling). 

Q.   I'm surprised he's still here and not going to Miami. 
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   No.   I think they practice until Sunday here.   They supposed to leave Sunday, but, mmm, I don't think so.

Q.   You'll buy him a new flight, you think?
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   I have to talk to him.   Maybe with his coach, not with him.
I have to convince Perlas. 

Q.   Speaking of your coach, you called your coach again when you were about to serve for the match. 
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   He ask me, he say, I want to come in.   I say, Okay, come in. 

Q.   Then you got broken again. 
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   But was normal.   I mean, also before I was...   So is not his fault, is my fault.

Q.   How often does he say he wants to do it?
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   Sometimes happen.   When he want me to say something really important or something, just... 

Q.   Did you feel like today's match was your best level so far in the tournament even though there were lots of breaks of serve?
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   I play really good.   I think the match with Stosur was really good, as well.   We had a good time.   With Giorgi was just one way.   She make so many mistakes, but I was so consistent as well. 
Tonight I think was the best one, yeah.

Q.   Do you think sometimes the statistics can be almost wrong?   I mean, we look at the statistics and it says Li Na hit over 50 unforced errors and double faults, and so people think, Oh, it's not a good match.   You say it's high quality.   She said it was high quality. 
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   We mistakes, but we make mistakes because we try to find the winner all the time.   Think it was good in that way, but of course when you try too much you make mistake.
I think we both didn't serve really well tonight, but our tournament was amazing.   She was really good.   All the time I had the pressure when I was serving, I was feeling all the time, and I think was the same for her.

Q.   You had some of your best results in the U.S.   What is it that makes you and America... 
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   I have to come more, I think, no?   What do you think? 

Q.   When you retire are you gonna live here?
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   Nah.   (Smiling).   Well, this is the first year that I play good in this part of the U.S. tournament.   Normally I don't play really well.
In the summertime I always play really good.   I love the tournament in U.S.   There is not a reason.   I just play good.

Q.   Do you feel more relaxed here?
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   No, no, I feel in the same way.   But sometimes you have ‑‑it's your week and you try to take everything.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT