BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 11, 2014
Flavia Pennetta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







F. PENNETTA/C. Giorgi
  6‑1, 3‑6, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Obviously you have been playing very well at these big events.   This is a pretty big event.   You're doing well here.   US Open, Australian Open. 
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   Doha.   No, Dubai.   Doha, no.   That was first round.

Q.   Wimbledon fourth round.   No, but you have been peaking at the right times.   Is that something you have learned how to do with experience?
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   No.   It just coming.   No, I mean, I'm try to do my best all the time in big vents, small events.   There is no difference for me.   I just try to play my tennis. 
I work hard and everything is coming out in the last seven, eight months, so I'm really happy about that.

Q.   Physically do you think you're back to where you were before the injury?
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   Yeah. 

Q.   Pain‑free?
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   Yeah.   Sometimes I have pain within my wrist, but is something is going to have since then forever, so I just have to be used to that and try to have at times recovery time. 
So I cannot play a lot of tournaments straightaway.   I have to just stop a little bit between one and the other one.
Of course I travel with my physio.   Before I didn't travel with him all year, and now I'm starting to travel with Massimo.   Massimo Tosella is the name, and I been working with him since seven years.   This year we decide to doing full time because I really need it.

Q.   Do you think maybe Wimbledon, US Open, Australian Open, now here, that the tournaments where you get a day off in between maybe that helps you for recovery?
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   I think that's better for me.   I have more time to recover.
But I play really good also in Dubai where I play quallies, so seven days I played nine matches between singles and doubles, so I'm able also to play every day in two matches in a day.

Q.   What goals do you still have left for yourself?
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   Just to improve my tennis.   I mean, I like to be better like a player.   I think if you get‑‑ if you be better and if you try to improve your game, serve, forehand, and my return, then I think the results is gonna come. 
But I don't have like, I want to be No. 10 or something like that.   Not for the moment. 

Q.   What do you make of Camila, her game on court and then her off court as well?   Somebody who seems very independent, I guess, for the Italian establishment. 
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   Well, she's young comparing with us, so it's normal we don't know her really well because we don't have a lot of time to spend with her.
But I think in the future she's gonna be in the Fed Cup team, so we're gonna have time to know more about Camila like a person and not like a player.
But for the moment she's really like friendly and we have a good time when we see each other.   It's nothing.

Q.   How about on court, her game?
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   Her game is unpredictable completely.   I mean, you don't know‑‑ you don't understand what she gonna do.   I think is good for her in one point, but in the other not too much.
I think she need to find the balance between these two Camila (smiling). 

Q.   If you were going to be coaching her, what would you have her work on next?
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   I think you have just to try to tell her what do you think about tennis and how you supposed to play.   I mean, she's powerful.   She have backhand and forehand really good.   She can serve much better, I think. 
But physically she's stronger.   She have everything.   She have a good potential, really good potential, I think.

Q.   How has the energy of Italian tennis kind of changed from when you were younger to now?   Because with Fabio on the men's side and your backup, as well... 
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   So now it's perfect for Italy.   I mean, in woman's and men we have so many player.   We have a great result in almost every week.
It's a good moment for tennis in Italy, and I hope to be better just day by day.   The Italian women's one is already since long time really consistent. 
The men are just starting now with Fabio, because he's like crazy, but it's unbelievable the way he play.
But the people, the Italian people, can enjoy a lot with us.

Q.   You're good friends with Fabio off court. 
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   Yeah.

Q.   Do you think he's misunderstood, or is his craziness accurate?
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   Sometimes it's‑‑ in court it's look in the way he not is.   I mean, it's really completely different.   But in the court when it's going just too many things, he cannot handle it very well.
But it's completely ‑‑ sometimes the people say, Oh, you know, he's walking like this, but it's completely ‑‑
(Through translation.)   How do you say in English? 

Q.   Shy, introverted. 
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   Yeah.

Q.   He's introverted.   Really? 
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   Yes.

Q.   You wouldn't think that. 
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   This is the point.   I mean, this is the point. 

Q.   You have been around for a long time, 11 years plus inside the top 100.   What do you think has been the biggest key to find that consistency and being good for so long? 
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   Well, when I start everything was like new, and when you're young you just want to win, win, win, and you lose the focus of the game and everything.
I think when the year is coming you just understand what you have to do better, and you just realize what is important.   For me, it's really important to have a team, a good team.   I have a good coach inside the court and outside the court. 
We spend more time outside the court than in the court, so it's important to have good people around you and the people who say to you it's good when it's good, it's bad when it's bad.   Sometimes we don't have these kind of things. 
We try to have these people around they always say, U‑huh, you are good.   Everything is fine.   It's good for me.   I had this team since two years already, but before I work with Gabriel Urpi for seven year and it was the same. 
And I have family behind me.   They always are happy for me, but they really‑‑ like my mom, she's so strong (smiling). 

Q.   Also the amount of time you have to put in taking care of your body, to keep that level, that's a long time. 
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   Yeah.   Of course when you play so many years you have injury and you come back and then you have another injury and you come back.
It's not easy all the time to start again, because it's look like you start from nothing when you stop for two months or seven months, doesn't matter.
But if you're working I think it's everything coming out.

Q.   How do you find that motivation to keep coming back? 
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   I don't know.   Well, last year here exactly I was thinking to stop, and was really tough since Wimbledon.   I had like bad year.   I was trying to find the motivation and practice and everything, and I did it pretty good.
After Wimbledon I starting to feel a little bit better, and then since then it's everything is coming out.
But I think it was because before I was working.   I mean, I didn't stop.   When everything is going in wrong way, you think, Okay, I don't want to practice; I don't want to do this or do that. 
But if you still do it, there is one point you don't know why, just happen. 

Q.   Comes back?
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   Yeah, comes back.

Q.   How close were you to stopping, do you think?
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   I was really close.

Q.   Like close, about to pick up the phone and say, I'm done, or... 
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   In Wimbledon I was thinking, Okay, I play since NewYork, and then we will see how it is the ranking.   If I'm not in the way I want to be... 

Q.   Like top 100?
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   Yeah.

Q.   Taylor Townsend, wonder what you thought of her game?
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   About who? 

Q.   Taylor Townsend. 
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   She's also really young and she have unbelievable shots.   I think also she need more‑‑ need to be more consistent. 
But it's something getting with the time.   I mean, she's believe a lot in herself.   She's in a good way in the court all the time and she fight, so I think she can be really good.

Q.   Some people in the US Tennis Federation have criticized her fitness. 
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   If you see like this it's not really fit.   I mean, you can see it.   But she's moving better than you think and she's powerful.   She's not that fit, but she's powerful.
She can move, she can move well, and she read the game really well.
Of course she have to work a lot on physical things, but also this is the age where you going up and down.   Like you are not a woman.   You need a little bit of time.   I think in two years, three years when the hormone is getting in one way everything is going to change. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT