DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 19, 2014
Flavia Pennetta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







F. PENNETTA/A. Radwanska
  6‑4, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   An eventful day.   If we can start off with your singles opponent, knocking out Radwanska, how do you feel about that?
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   I'm of course really happy, you know.   It was the first time for me to beat her after six years, I think, I never beat her.   So today I think I played really well.   My idea was clear what I have to do, and I tried to go for the point all the time.
I make few mistakes in the beginning.   I went 4‑1 down but was really tough.   Every game was a big fight.
So I just try to keep going and be aggressive and it was working pretty good.

Q.   How much would you say that the fact that you have to qualify and you played four games whereas Aga is coming in cold as a seeded player, did that help that you're climatized to the conditions?
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   I mean, in one way maybe it help and in another way, no.   I mean, four matches in your leg, you feel it, you know.   It's easy to play the first match and be fresh than after four matches starting to feel a little bit of just tired or whatever.

Q.   When you have a long losing streak against someone, I mean, did you do anything differently today or do you go out uninhibited?
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   I try to be all the time aggressive.   Sometimes when you play with a player like Agnieszka it's not easy because the ball, it always come back.   You have the feeling like you cannot win any points because it's like a wall, completely.
So you're starting to be a little bit frustrating and starting to make so many mistakes but like without any sense.   And today I just try to stay there every point, just to play every point in the same way, don't go away, because I was 4‑1 down and I lose two or three chance to go 3‑1 up.

Q.   Radwanska mentioned the conditions out there.   What did you make of the conditions?   She was saying it was blustery?
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   I mean, it was windy a little bit, but was going so up and down.   It was not easy to have just one feeling.   It was not in one way and that's it.
It was going like this (indicating swirling) and in few moments it was nothing at all and then come back.   So it was windy for both of us.

Q.   Venus next? 
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   Yeah.

Q.   Your thoughts on that?   She dismissed Ana Ivanovic. 
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   Yeah, 6‑2, 6‑1.   I didn't see the match but it was pretty like easy.
I think Venus starting to play much better.   She starting to be in good shape, so it's going to be really tough.   She's one of the best players in the history, so it's always nice to be on the court with a champion like her.

Q.   Just a few words on your doubles today.   Obviously with Sam, winning that. 
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   Yeah.   Nice.   It was a good day today (smiling).
We never play together, was the first match, and we enjoy.   We try to enjoy to play together, and we beat a good team, because Peschke/Srebotnik, they are really good team, and in the history of tennis in the last three or four years ‑‑ they just stop last year to play and now they come back together.   They just split for one year, but I remember when I played really good doubles with Gisela Dulko 2011 and 2012, the good team was us and then them and Huber and Black, I mean, was... 

Q.   Is this potentially a long‑term partnership with Sam?
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   Well, I play with Mladenovic, so I play with her because she's not here.   I think I will still play with Mladenovic, yes. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT