AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 21, 2014
Flavia Pennetta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. LI/F. Pennetta
  6‑2, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   What do you think about Li Na's performance today?  
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   It was perfect for her.   She play really well.   Since the first ball, I think she play really well today.   
   
 Q.   You and Li Na are the two 30‑year‑old women.   What keeps you playing at such a high level?  
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   I think we still working in a good way.   We try to have a good team with us.   They can help us in every moment.   
Is good to see older player, no, in the court and fighting.   Today I think she was perfect in everything.   I mean, I didn't have a lot of chance at all.   
I just have to say to her congratulation.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel like Li Na is more focused on the court than previous matches you play with her a couple years ago?  
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   No, I think she's just improve her game a lot.   She's really consistent.   But she's one of the best player.   Today she was much better than me in the court.   
In the last year she improve a lot her game.   She's more, I think, consistent with the forehand.   And her serve, it's working really good also.   She's a really good player.   
   
 Q.   As the match went on, what were you trying to do to get yourself back into it tactically?  
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   Was really tough today because I didn't serve really well.   My serve doesn't work in the way I would like to.   
But, I mean, I think she make no mistake at all.   In the first five games, maybe one or two, and a lot of winners.   
I was trying to pushing, but she was faster and stronger than me today, so...   
I try my best, but she was too good.   
   
 Q.   Of the women players on the tour, when she is playing like that, when she's hot...   
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   ...she is tough.   
   
 Q.   Up there with Serena and some of the other big hitters?  
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   Of course.   She's No.5 or 4 in the world.   She's a Grand Slam champion.   That's what we're talking about.   
   
 Q.   How do you sum up this tournament for you personally?  
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   Was good.   I mean, I am happy about this tournament.   Was a really good tournament.   I play a few matches in a good way.   I enjoy to play here in Australia.   I have to be happy.   
Of course, now I'm a little bit upset because I would like to play a little bit better today.   But next week I have another tournament and everything start again.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT