U.S. OPEN
September 2, 2013
Flavia Pennetta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







F. PENNETTA/S. Halep
      6‑2, 7‑6

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You and Roberta have split in terms of all the matches you've faced each other.   What is your strategy going into the quarters?
    FLAVIA PENNETTA:   I cannot tell you (laughter). 
    I think is going to be just a really tough match for both of us.   You know, we know each other really well.   I know her since I think 20 years or more because we live almost in the same place.   Just 35, 45 kilometer my house from her house. 
    So is going to be really I think nice for us because one of us is going to have the chance to be in the semifinal.   In the other way, it's always not easy to play with your friend.   But she do it yesterday and the day before with Knapp, I did it with Sara the second day, so we used to that and we try to play just tennis and then that's it. 

Q.   That seems to be a theme for the past couple years in terms of Italian women facing each other.   You're facing her in doubles as well. 
    FLAVIA PENNETTA:   Yeah, singles and doubles.   At least one for me, one for her is going to be nice (smiling). 

Q.   Can you talk about this sort of Italian renaissance that you guys are having. 
    FLAVIA PENNETTA:   I think already few years, we can say 2008, 2009, we have so many good results, so many good ranking.   We won three time the Fed Cup.   We still in final this year. 
    We try to play all the time for our country because we love to play for our country, but also because we have a great relationship between us.   So it's nice to spend time, no, with Sara, Roberta, Francesca.   It's really lovely to stay with them all the time. 
    Also when I get top 10 the first year, Francesca get really motivated, and she won Roland Garros.   Then Sara get really motivated.   We try to motivated, everyone.   It's really nice because always we make a good result, almost always.   And now also Karin and Giorgi, they play really good.   They are younger, but I think they can be really good. 

Q.   I'm sure you've been talking about this a lot the last couple weeks, but discuss how difficult it was to come back from wrist surgery. 
    FLAVIA PENNETTA:   It was and still is really tough.   Since one year already.   A lot of thing change when I come back in March.   Was really tough.   Everything was really different, from my coach, from my doubles partner, from the feeling I had in the court, everything. 
    I try to just come back and play the most I can, single, doubles, mixed, everything.   You know, when you stop for so many time, so long part, like seven months, something like that, when you come back, you feel different, and all your body have problem.   You don't have problem in your hand, but you start having problem in the leg or the abdominal because you are not used to play for such a long time.   Your body just need time to recover. 

Q.   How did you not get discouraged by the losses?   You had a good Wimbledon, but then the weeks after that were difficult.   Then you come here and it's 2009 again. 
    FLAVIA PENNETTA:   Well, it's not easy.   Before Wimbledon I had maybe one week really good in Strasbourg, and then Wimbledon I was lucky also.   We have to say that.   But I play good, a good match against Cornet. 
    Then Palermo really bad again, and Bastad better.   So it's always up and down because I can find a way to be consistent all the time.   But I was working hard, still working every day with my coach, with my physio, with the physical coach, and also with my psychologist, yeah. 
    Was not easy, I can tell you.   I cry a lot, yeah.   But I love this sport.   I would like to have a chance just to prove myself.   I try my best.   If I can come back, good.   If not, I have a good career.   I don't have to do nothing more.   But I would like to try 100%, and I did it.   Now the result, it's good. 

Q.   I guess some players will say this place is special, that place is special.   Maybe they're not telling the truth.   But you have had very good results here.   When you start playing on the courts here, do you think it doesn't matter what happened the last few months, maybe the great form will come back again?
    FLAVIA PENNETTA:   Playing in New York, it's always good for me.   I really love this place.   I have a good memories. 
    But I think it's something happen you cannot say why.   It just happen because you are there and you are practice and you are try your best all the time. 
    Of course, this place for me, it's special.   But I can tell you the first day, when I played the first match, I didn't expect to be here today.   I didn't expect to play so good against Sara the day after because the first day I didn't play a good tennis.   I was really nervous and tight and everything. 
    But I just try to play all the time my tennis, try to be aggressive, try to do something with the ball, don't thinking about winning or lose, just try to play tennis.   I think is the important thing now. 

Q.   It's your fourth quarterfinal. 
    FLAVIA PENNETTA:   Yeah. 

Q.   Time for the semifinals now. 
    FLAVIA PENNETTA:   I hope so (smiling). 

Q.   Do you feel nervous about it?
    FLAVIA PENNETTA:   No.   For the moment I'm just really happy about this match tonight.   I don't think I going to be nervous at all because I play already here three times.   I know how the feeling is going to be.   I supposed to lose because she is better than me in this moment.   I don't have nothing to lose. 

Q.   You said after your match against Sara that whatever happens on the court, you were going to go out to dinner afterwards.   Do you feel the same way about facing Roberta?
    FLAVIA PENNETTA:   Roberta, it's more I think because we really grow up together.   Like we went in the Italian Federation when she was 12 and I was 13 or something like that.   We shared a room for four years.   So it's more like a sister, we can say. 

Q.   So you go out no matter what?
    FLAVIA PENNETTA:   I hope so and I think so.   Maybe not the day after (laughter). 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT