BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS
October 25, 2015
Flavia Pennetta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. HALEP/F. Pennetta
  6‑0, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. Obviously a slow start. Was it something she was doing or did you feel a little nervous out there?
FLAVIA PENNETTA: No, was not nervous at all. She play I think really consistent. She was playing really well today. Everything was working in the good way.
Maybe I had not too much energy. I didn't push a lot like always did. Was waiting too much.
But in the second set was much better. I was trying to find something more, to be more aggressive, and I was more close and I have my chance.
I didn't make it. It's okay. I mean, she always have a good start here. Last year she beat Serena 6‑0, 6‑2 in the first match. 
Of course she play really well today. 

Q. Did you notice anything different on her serve? Seemed like she was serving particularly well today. Compared to the last few times that you've played her, what was different? 
FLAVIA PENNETTA: She played‑‑ she serve better today for sure. She didn't make a lot of double faults. She was serving more slice on my forehand also.
For sure she's serving much better today. 

Q. Can you talk to us about the condition of the surface? How did it feel for you? Is it more slow? What's it like? 
FLAVIA PENNETTA: I think it's perfect court. I mean, it's nice to play. It's not slow; it's not fast. The ball are the same of the all year. Of course playing indoor it's different, but the condition, it's perfect.
The atmosphere is perfect; the court, it's really nice; the crowd, it's amazing here. So I don't think we can ask more to have something different. 

Q. The beauty of the round robin is you get another chance to come back. Anything you would do a lot differently? You think you're just going to try to be faster off the bat? 
FLAVIA PENNETTA: For the moment I don't think about the other match, I have to say. I mean, I think I have to recover a little bit, to have more energy, to be more aggressive, and that's going to be my goal for the next match for sure. 

Q. You played this fall in order to get here to Singapore to play this event. That was your first match out there at your first Finals. What was it like? Were you able to, despite the scoreline, enjoy it, to have fun?
FLAVIA PENNETTA: Yeah, was not easy to get here. The Road to Singapore was pretty hard in the last month, but I'm really enjoy to play this event and enjoy to be here.
Of course I would love to play a little bit better, but I still have my chance. I still have two match I have to play, so we will see what happen. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT