CHINA OPEN
October 3, 2011
Flavia Pennetta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







F. PENNETTA/S. Peng
  7-6, 7-5

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. How did you feel for the six time you won over Peng Shuai?
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: I'm really happy, of course. It was a really tough match for me. She's one of the best player in the tournament. Of course it was not easy match. 
 But I think I play not my best tennis. She also didn't play really good. I think it was not good tennis today. We make a lot of mistake. But for her it's normal. To play home with so many people around you and so many expectation, it's not easy. 
 I shaking a little bit in the first set when I was 5-3, and also in the second set when I was 4-1. But I think it's coming because was really tough here for me. I was injury and I didn't play a lot of matches, so to be consistent all the time is not easy. 
 When you are there and you almost win the match, you're just thinking too much. It's better when you don't think. 

 Q. It's actually the sixth straight time for you to win over her. You must have some secret behind playing against her. 
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Well, like I said before, I think we have the same game. She serve better and I think I move much better of her. So in the end, when we have a long rally, I always have more point on my side. 
 You know, I think we play, like you said six times, but all the time was really tough match and just decide for three or four points. So the first set was supposed to be for my side and 5-3, and then for her side she have a set point. So we always really close.
 In the end, I always have the best moment because I win, but I think it's always really tough match. 

 Q. Compare this game and also the game that you played at US Open. Peng Shuai was leading like 6-1 in the tiebreak in the second set at the US Open, but she lose. Also today as well she had some chance but she couldn't make it. Do you think Peng Shuai has some problem with her mental issue, like she's not very strong mentally?
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: No, no. Tennis is like this. You don't have to say something like that. She's really strong. If not, she's not going to be where she is. She's number 50 in the world. She is one of the best player in the world. 
 So if you have some problem, mental problem like you say, like you don't going to be in that situation. I think it's just because tennis is like this. Some way can go on your sides; sometimes go on the other side. I am pretty sure she won a lot matches with match point for the other player. You know, it's like one point can change a lot of things.
 The one in the US Open, I was 6-1 in the tiebreak down, but I think I played unbelievable match, like unbelievable points. She didn't make mistake; I won the point. She didn't lose the match. 
 So of course she don't have any problem at all for that. 

 Q. What do you think of the new venue of the China Open?
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Ah, it's unbelievable. It's really nice. This tournament, I think like the first year when we get here was for the Olympic Games, and in the last two years it's improve a lot. So I think it's really good tournament. The people working so hard for make all these things possible.
 So I think it's good for China tennis, and it's also good for WTA Tour to have such a big event here. 

 Q. You have been to China many times. Do you see some Chinese like Forbidden City or the Great Wall?
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Everything, few times.

 Q. Do you have shopping plans this time?
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Well, like you say, I was here so many times already, and I went to everywhere like almost three times because it's really great. You know, you have such good things here, so it's nice to see year after year.
 Of course if I have some shopping, I can have some shopping also. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT