U.S. OPEN
September 8, 2011
Flavia Pennetta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. KERBER/F. Pennetta
  6-4, 4-6, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. With this match, you had an opponent that you only played the one time and it was on clay. Going in, did you feel that it was still a mystery what she was gonna bring to the table? Did she do anything today maybe that frustrated you?  
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Well, she was aggressive from the beginning. But she didn't do nothing really special, just aggressive. She play like good forehand down the line, but I think she was there all the time.   
 So was completely different to play her in clay court than hard court. But I expecting a match like that tough and I was ready for that, but she was better than me on the day.   
  
  Q. Neither woman really had a chance. It seemed nobody was establishing their serve very well. Both of you guys were having a tough time serving. Is there any reason behind that?  
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: I don't know why she had the problem with her serve. I can tell you I had a problem with my serve, because she's left handed and everything was a little bit different for me. My good serve on the T was not that good today, and it was going on her forehand and was the best shot she had.  
 So I tried few time to go wide, but I make a few double fault in the important point. But that's why.   
 I don't know why she didn't serve well.  
  
  Q. This is your third quarterfinal here, and I know that you had a really good week here. You beat Sharapova. I mean, are you gonna walk away thinking this was a success, or is it something where you feel you have more and you can get to the semis and potentially a final here?  
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Well, of course I'm frustrating now about this match, but I happy about the week, I think. When I get here in New York, was not a good moment for me. I was playing not my best tennis, and actually here I played four match really well.   
 Today was not that well, but I can tell you was much better than three or four weeks ago. So I improve my tennis. I play a good matches, so I can be happy for one side and not happy for the other one.  
  
  Q. You beat Zvonareva here two years ago. Is this your favorite slam to play in?  
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: I like this slam, yeah. I think it was my best one.  
  
  Q. Is she a tricky matchup, left hander going forward against Stosur, as well? Is she hard to play on this surface because she's a lefty?  
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Well, I have some problem to play with a left handed, but I don't know if Sam, she gonna have some problem at all. She can serve much better than me. She have a good kick, so is gonna be better for her with the second serve.   
 But I think is gonna be a good match.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT