BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS
October 24, 2015
Flavia Pennetta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. The inevitable questions. At the US Open you said it was your final, but then you said it was your final US Open. Now they're saying it's your final tournament. I got the feeling you were saying you weren't playing the US Open but you could play up to there. Is this the end or will you show up some next year?
FLAVIA PENNETTA: In US Open I say was my last US Open. Then when we ask me if I keep playing until the end of the year, I was really clear. Of course, I will play until the end of the year. Of course, like my goal was to come here. After US Open I was No.6, so I see the chance to be here. I was fighting for be here now. 
I was really clear in the fact that I going to finish this year my career, for sure. 

Q. What will you do next year?
FLAVIA PENNETTA: I don't know. I don't know what is going to do. I need to first finish here. I was really focused to do my job, do what I have to do. I want to finish this week and enjoy a little bit. I have so many things to do in Italy in December and November. 
I don't know how is going to be my life after that. 

Q. We could see you next year?
FLAVIA PENNETTA: You going to see me because my boyfriend play tennis (laughter). I will be with him no every week but few weeks for sure, in the right place I can say. 

Q. If you had lost the US Open final, would you have been just as happy?
FLAVIA PENNETTA: Of course not. Winning or lose is different. Before the US Open I never think I have the chance to be in the final. But when you are there, in the other part there is in Serena Williams, but Roberta, I think is going to be tough to recover. 
But happy after a while, for sure, when the time passed. Maybe the day after or the week after not really. 

Q. Does this whole time after the US Open still feel like a little bit of a tornado or hurricane or is it pretty calm for you right now?
FLAVIA PENNETTA: I mean, I think I handle everything pretty good. I went home. I was three days with my family. I take just my time for my family first, then we have a big day in my city with all the press, all the attention, you know. Then I back to Barcelona starting to practice again, starting with the normal routine I have every day. 
Of course, was more intense because, like, my phone was ringing too much. I had few interview, but more of them by phone. I didn't move a lot. I just trying to be focus on the last period of the tournaments. 
Of course, I went two days in Milan for the fashion week, but was more for a funny moment with my sister, my coach. Fabio was there with me. We have two days just for us. 
Everything, it's keeping the same thing. I mean, is nothing really change. Maybe because around me the people that I have, they still like really normal. You can use that word sometimes. 

Q. You mentioned Roberta before. I wanted to know what your thoughts were about what it is about the female Italian players like Francesca, even Sara being 28, being able to endure so long and have such success to this stage of your career? Is it something about the way you play? Is it that you're all together?
FLAVIA PENNETTA: I mean, of course for Italy have such a good player all in the same moment is amazing. We starting in 2006 for the first victory in Fed Cup. Since then, everything was growing. 
I become top 10 in 2009. I think that moment was a really motivate moment for all of them. Francesca starting to win Roland Garros, then Sara came, then Roberta, then me again. 
The good thing is there is always one of us that give a good result. I had in my career a lot of injury. Was not like really easy career. I have two wrist, one knee, typhus. I don't know if you know what it is, but I had like a big virus when I was 18, 19. I spent 20 days in the hospital like in the room where nobody can come in. Good thing happen and bad thing also happen. 
I have to say with the injury on my wrist, the right one, in 2012, I spend nine months out. So I think in that time my body just have time to recover. I had two or three years more maybe, that's why. 

Q. In a couple years would you actually be a coach?
FLAVIA PENNETTA: A coach? 

Q. Would you like to become a coach?
FLAVIA PENNETTA: No.

Q. Ever? In a few years? 
FLAVIA PENNETTA: You never have to say never, but I don't see myself like a coach. 

Q. Why? Because you don't want to travel again?
FLAVIA PENNETTA: I don't want to travel. I don't want to have the pressure. I mean, we think when we are on the court we are just the one that are in the court, the one we fight, the one get tired. But the true is we have with us like two person most of the time, the coach and the physio, the coach and the physical coach. The life for them, it's really tough. They are out. They don't spend time with the family. They have to be really calm all the time and try to be positive all the time. 
I mean, is not easy to be the coach. I don't know if I have the ability to be a good coach. 

Q. What about coaching children, kids, something like that?
FLAVIA PENNETTA: Maybe is going to be. That thing is going to be something that I like to do, more to just explain them how it is the life. I mean, now I feel there is a lot of pression from the young children to become champions. I think there is a right time for everything. 
They need to be a child. They need to have fun. They don't have to be professional at 10 years old. I mean, they have so much time in the life. Why to rush too much? 
Now I think they are really push from the sponsor, from the family, from everyone. Before was more relaxing everything. Now they want it too much, so early. 

Q. Would you consider Fed Cup captain? Is that something you might want to do?
FLAVIA PENNETTA: In the future, why not? Yeah, would be nice. But I think Francesca, she's better than me. 

Q. You were in an interview with the New York Times. You said you got a call from Serena after you won. 
FLAVIA PENNETTA: Yeah. 

Q. I'm curious. Does your cell phone pop up and say, Phone call from Serena Williams?
FLAVIA PENNETTA: No.

Q. Do you pick it up and you have no idea who was calling?
FLAVIA PENNETTA: No, I didn't have her number. She just asked my number to Caroline. But because my phone was ringing so much, I didn't answer to the number that I don't recognize. 
So she sent me a tweet. Flavia, it's me, it's my number, call me. 
I call her. So now I have her number (laughter). 

Q. Can you talk about that conversation a little bit?
FLAVIA PENNETTA: I mean, was not that long. She just call me and say, Hi, baby, how are you? I'm so happy for you. 
I'm asking her how she was feeling. 
She say, It's tough for me. But I'm so happy and proud of you. 
You're really going to retire? 
I say, Yes. 
It's good for you. 
I mean, she ask me if I was in New York or going to Italy, wherever. We just keep in touch. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT