AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 22, 2011
Flavia Pennetta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







F. PENNETTA/S. Peer
  3-6, 7-6, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions. 

 Q. Close win against a tough opponent. Must be happy with how it went today. 
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Yes, I am. I'm really happy. I think was really good match for both of us. We play really long match. We fight a lot. We try to give our best in the court. 
 I'm really happy because I was down set and 4-2 and ball for 5-2. Was not easy to come back. But I just fight until the end, until the last ball, and everything was going perfect in the end. 

 Q. You must take a lot of confidence from that. 
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Yes, of course. 

 Q. The next round, you could play Sam Stosur. 
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Is just 1-All in the first set. 

 Q. Your record against her is very good. You would have additional confidence going in. 
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: To play Sam is going to be emotional here because is going to play for sure in the central court, for sure night session or something like that. So the crowd is going to be all for her, so is not going to be easy to play against her. 
 But in the last match I play against her, I always play really good. So I know how she play. I know she's one of the best player in the moment in the world. So is going to be tough. 
 But I will try to play my tennis. 

 Q. Do you think because of those factors that she would be additionally difficult to confront this time around?
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Well, I think she improve a lot now. In the beginning she didn't play really well in front of the crowd in Australia. But in the last three match, she play really good. She was really consistent, really aggressive. You know, is going to be a good match I think. I hope. 

 Q. Can you put a finger on why your record against her is so good? Something you do well that she finds hard to counter?
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: I think my return is really, really good against her. All the time she is serve unbelievable. She's serving sometimes like a man. It's true, she's really powerful. 
 But actually all the time my return is really good against her. So maybe that's why she always make some mistake against me, because I just - I don't know how to say - she lost the confidence in her serve, so she lost the confidence in the way she play. 

 Q. With the Fed Cup coming up in Hobart... 
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: We can just play and one is enough, no? (Laughter). 

 Q. You've played Kim Clijsters during her first and second career. What kind of difference can you see between Kim 1 and Kim 2? 
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Kim I think is still the same player. Like she's really strong. She was strong when she stopped and she's still really strong. 
 Maybe I change a little bit the way I play. But Kim, she's unbelievable player, unbelievable person. You know, I think it's really good for tennis she's coming back because we need some player like her. So I am really happy she's here. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT