FEDCUP FINALS: ITALY v USA
November 7, 2010
Corrado Barazzutti
Flavia Pennetta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 F. PENNETTA/C. Vandeweghe
  6-1, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Flavia, was there any little bit of panic after Francesca went down to Melanie?   
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Panic, not too much. Like I was nervous, but it was not panic, you know.   
 I was ready from this morning to play. Of course, I was thinking Francesca can take that point and maybe everything was finished fast. But I think she played against Melanie, and Melanie was playing unbelievable today, was on fire. You know, she didn't make one mistake, was really aggressive. Was not easy to just stop her, you know.   
 But I was ready since this morning, so...   
  
  Q. Flavia, you obviously played at a great level today. You've won eight Fed Cup matches in a row. Talk about what it is about the competition that can bring out the best in you.   
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Well, I always think in Fed Cup you can beat everyone, you can lose with everyone. It's not easy to play for your country, to give your best all the time when you are on the court, because sometimes you can be really nervous and you can have a panic attack.   
 But I really enjoy to play for my country. I really enjoy to play for this team. We are really friends with each other. We spend so much time together. It's nice to be here after five years together again in the final.   
  
  Q. Doesn't seem to matter whether you're home or away, you seem to have a team that's very dedicated and able to perform under all different circumstances. Can you talk about the team.   
 CAPTAIN BARAZZUTTI: Well, a team like that in five years won three Fed Cups and one final is a great team, is a fantastic team. They are great player in the individual tournament, too.   
 As Flavia say, they play each other, they are really friend. They really like to play for the country. So that is a reason because this group is so strong. First of all reason is that they are very strong individual player. Flavia was first 10 in the world last year, play great, is 23 in the world now, is number two for a few points in doubles. Francesca is No. 7 in the world, won Roland Garros. Roberta Vinci and Sara Errani are great players. 33 in the world, Roberta, and 42 maybe Sara.   
 I often said I'm very lucky captain because I have a great team and it's easy. I'm proud, but it's easy to be captain of this team because they are very strong.   
  
  Q. Flavia, did you sense Coco was maybe a little nervous or that the occasion got to her a little bit today?   
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Well, I think she was, of course, a little bit nervous. But in this case you can play your best tennis or you can go in panic attack. You know, it's not easy for her of course to go in the court 2-1 down and have the chance to go into hole.   
 But she play good tennis. I think she was just too nervous after like the second game, when I won the second game, 14 or 15 minutes, really long game. But since then I starting to play really aggressive, I was really consistent, I didn't make a lot of mistake, I was moving her a lot. I just try to play my tennis, and she was a little bit in difficult, you know.   
  
  Q. If somebody asked you, what would you say is better, having played Davis Cup or being the captain of the Fed Cup?   
 CAPTAIN BARAZZUTTI: Well, there is a panic for me to be there like captain. Anyway, is different. Is much different. Obviously, if I think when I was a player, I prefer to be player because I was younger (laughter).   
 But, anyway, is great to be captain of this team really. Is a lot emotion. But they give you really lots. I like captain really.   
  
  Q. Flavia, Mary Joe just said that the women's tour is changing a little bit, the way players play. It's not all big heavy hitters anymore. Can you look ahead to 2011 and give us your thoughts, including yourself?  
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Well, I think tennis, it change. But it's a lot physical now. You have to be really strong. You can play good tennis, but you have to be really strong and physical. Like you have to work a lot, you have to push hard the ball. If you can do some serve and volley, some game like the one of Francesca, it's much better. Most of the Russian player, they are just playing really flat and really with powerful.   
 But to have a chance to change a little bit the game, to just confuse a little bit everything, it's going to be really important. That's why maybe Francesca, she improve a lot her game because she's one of the best player doing this kind of game and she's really consistent.   
  
  Q. Flavia, not to take anything away from the last two victories of Italy over the United States, but somewhere in the back of your mind, do you say to yourself, I wish we would have played Venus and Serena with our best against their best?   
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: You know, I think for me it's the same. Of course, if Serena and Venus want to play, the chance to win, it's less. It's normal to say something like that, you know. They are really good player. They are really strong.   
 But we fight a lot for be here, for have this trophy. Before play U.S., we play another two important teams. All the best players in the other teams was there. It's not make any difference if they play or not play. Still we won this unbelievable Fed Cup, and nobody can say nothing about that.   
  
  Q. Flavia, can you comment on what it's meant for you to reach your career-high doubles ranking? Did it give you more confidence coming in?   
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: I started this year playing with Gisela because we are friends, we spend so much time together, and we love to play together. But when we start, we never think to be No. 1 and 2 in the world and win The Championships.   
 We really enjoy to play together. We have so much fun on the court, maybe that's why we play so good. But, of course, play doubles can help you with your singles. You can starting to be more aggressive. You play more volleys. You can serve a little bit better. You can take doubles for practice for improve your game.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT