FED CUP BY BNP PARIBAS WORLD GROUP FINAL
November 8, 2009
Flavia Pennetta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 FLAVIA PENNETTA / M. Oudin
  7-5, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please?  
  
  Q. You've never played Melanie. What were some of the keys for you today? Was there a point, especially in the second set, where you felt things turn in your favor and you were sort of in control of the match?  
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: I think in the beginning, both was very like nervous. You know, it's not easy to play in such a good event.   
 But I think my serve was working very good today, and I was pretty focus on my game. I didn't make a lot of mistakes. I just play every point, and that was the key.   
  
  Q. Did you feel it turn in your favor then in the second set?  
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: I think when I make a break-in 3-1 was when I just go a little bit more easy.   
  
  Q. Do you think that maybe winning the Fed Cup is more important to a country like Italy than it is to the United States given the players that pulled out beforehand? Does it mean for more to you?  
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Well, for me it very important to be like a champion in the world. For me, it's very nice. To represent your country it's something very different.   
 We always play for ourself, and nobody care about what you do. Now, here it's completely different.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about the feelings when you knew that you won it? And also, Italy will now be the No. 1 nation for Fed Cup. That's the first time ever for your country.   
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: The feeling, it's very nice. We work hard for getting to this point. Finally we make it. In the beginning of the week everyone expect so many thing, and we was very nervous.   
 We tried to don't like show, but everyone was very nervous. Now we are 3-Love. They play like doubles for fun. After, we can enjoy.   
  
  Q. And yesterday, Francesca said happened your captain is like a god. Do you think he's a god?   
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Can be.   
  
  Q. How so? Can I change the subject completely for a moment? I don't know if you heard, but one of your opponents, Wickmayer, has been suspended for a year for not telling people where she was. Can I just get your reaction about what you think about this kind of suspension?  
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Well, it's not easy, because we have to fill like a form during the year where they have to know exactly where we are every day.   
 You know, when someone work for you and it's easy to, like wherever you are to make like e-mail or something, it's easier. But like normal people, normal player like us don't have someone work for you. You just call them and say, Okay, send this e-mail to someone or to the ITF.   
 The way they want to make the control, it's good. But they have to find another way. For us, it's very difficult to say every day where we gonna be.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT