FED CUP BY BNP PARIBAS WORLD GROUP FINAL
November 7, 2009
Flavia Pennetta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







F. PENNETTA / A. Glatch
  6-3, 6-1

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. You seemed in control from the beginning. Can you talk about your good start and how you basically took her out of the match? 
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Well, in the beginning I was really nervous. You know, it's tough to go to the court and play your best tennis when you play such a big event. 
 But I was very focus on my game. I try to just play very easy, not too many things. Everything was working pretty good, and in the end my serve was great. So I'm really happy about this first match.

 Q. How tough is it that it's a home crowd? I gather you're from the southern region. I assume you have a lot friends and family. 
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Yeah, all my family and all my city I think is here, so I'm really happy to play like this in front of them. It's nice to stay with them in these days.

 Q. The match that you guys played at the French, obviously you were injured, I think, or sick.
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: I was coming back from injuries, so it was a little bit different. I think she's a good player and she improve a lot in the last year. So she has a good potential and serve. 
 I think she have just to work a little bit more on physical things. But she's pretty good. 

 Q. Talk a little bit about the coaching aspect of Fed Cup, which you don't get on the tour. Somebody's there at ever changeover. Are you somebody who likes to hear Corrado's voice?
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: It's nice, because when you are nervous it's good to just don't think and do what they say, because when you are outside it's more easy. You can see everything really easy. 
 When you're on the court, everything is gonna be very different. You see the court so small. You cannot see where you have to put the ball. 
 So it's nice to just relaxing sometimes and do what they say. 

 Q. So on a day like today when you're playing really well, does Corrado have a lot to offer to you, or just encouraging you? 
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: No, we was talking before the match and during the match. He's also talk a lot with my coach Urpi, and give good advice for my tennis. It was pretty good. 

 Q. After Glatch had one break of your serve on the first game of the second set, it seemed like you stepped it up more after that. Did you find another gear or get angered that you let that happen? 
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: No, I think when you finish the first set you just breathe a little bit and relaxing. I make a few stupid mistakes in that game, but after, when I lost this game, I just go on the other side of the court and I thinking I make a few breaks in the first set. 
 So it was not that difficult for me to play my game and get in the match again.

 Q. Did you feel like you were doing anything better in the second set?
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: I think my serve was working much better. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT