CHINA OPEN
October 8, 2015
Flavia Pennetta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. You made a good start in that match, but your thoughts overall on the match?
FLAVIA PENNETTA: I think it was a good match. Three sets, really close. We both play really well. She play much better today than she did in the last two or three months. I think she was really consistent, make not too many mistakes. 
I mean, I try my best, but she was really consistent, really powerful all the time. 

Q. The decision to play in China, then next week as well, is it all to kind of solidify your position in Singapore?
FLAVIA PENNETTA: Yeah, if I have a chance, I would like to try, of course. 

Q. Talking about this tournament, since it's your last one, what memories do you have of playing the China Open?
FLAVIA PENNETTA: Well, I have good memories here. I played 2011 really well in singles playing against Karolina in the quarterfinal, make semifinal. Also we have two finals here in doubles with Gisela. So it's a nice place for me to come back every year. 

Q. After the US Open, having that success there, then having to pick yourself back up again and come to Asia and play, has that reaffirmed your decision to end your career? Are you happy with that?
FLAVIA PENNETTA: I'm really happy with my decision, yes. I don't going to change nothing. 
Of course, I would like to finish the year, so that's what I say before also in US Open. I'm here because I would like to finish in the high way I can do, and then it's over.

Q. Just to clarify, if you do qualify for Singapore, would that be the last tournament of your career?
FLAVIA PENNETTA: Yeah. 

Q. You were quoted after the US Open saying there was a 2% chance you might play the Olympics. 
FLAVIA PENNETTA: At the moment I don't have any idea to change my mind. I'm really happy about my decision. 
I cannot tell you how I going to feel in February, January. If I feel want to play, if I want to play, I play. I don't have to keep just one decision because I said something. I mean, nothing is going to change. 

Q. This was the first tournament that you played since the US Open, so the first time you probably saw all the players. Did you get any nice messages? Was everybody was congratulating you?
FLAVIA PENNETTA: Yeah, everybody was saying congratulations. I receive a lot of message after the finals from so many player. I was really happy because we know each other since long time. Once you have more relationship with other, no. Those are the people you just say hello. They send me so many nice message, so I was really happy. 

Q. You earned some wealth after a great victory. You also got engaged with Fabio recently. Maybe it's the best time in your career. Are you enjoying it? 
FLAVIA PENNETTA: Of course, it's a good moment of my life. I mean, I have everything that I always would like to have. 
Professionally, I'm in the perfect moment. I won one of my favorite tournaments, one of the best tournaments in the world. I have my high ranking. 
I have the person that I love with me. I mean, I just can say I'm really happy. 

Q. If you enter the final of the China Open, you'll definitely go to Singapore. You lost this match. Are you disappointed? You're going to Tianjin. It will have a big influence on your points. How will you prepare for the matches?
FLAVIA PENNETTA: I mean, for me, there is nothing going to change if I go to Singapore or not. My career is going to be over anyway.
Of course, is going to be nice to go to Singapore. If I make it, it's okay. If I don't, I go on vacation. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT