U.S. OPEN
September 8, 2009
Flavia Pennetta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. WILLIAMS/F. Pennetta
  6-4, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. You played with tremendous heart out there tonight, and the crowd really responded. It was a very electric match. I know it wasn't the result that maybe you wanted, but what do you come away from that match and this tournament knowing about yourself and your heart?  
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Well, you know, I'm really happy about this tournament, about the season, everything. It's going to be very good. I think today was very great match. I didn't have a lot of chance. I have just two, and I didn't make it.   
 But she was playing really great, really aggressive. When you play with this player, you have to play always on the best tennis and you cannot make mistake. Today I make few mistake in important point, and she just take the chance to close the match.  
 But I think I give everything on the court tonight, you know. I was like running and fight until the end. It's the only -- it's the only way to win against this kind of player. And I was there, but tonight was not my night.  
  
  Q. It seemed you started to get maybe a little tired in the second set. Do you think the earlier match might have wore you down?  
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: No, no, I don't know. I was okay really. I had time to rest. I had one day. It was perfect. I was ready to fight. She was playing really well. She was really aggressive. The ball was very heavy for me tonight, but I know that.   
  
  Q. Do you think she's above all the other players?  
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Well, for me, Serena and Venus are the best one, you know, when they are in shape and when they are like fit, they are the No. 1.  
  
  Q. What about mentally when you play against them? Is it different?  
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: No, it was not different, because I play Venus few time already, Serena just one time. But, you know, when I get in the court, I always try to think I can win the match. I don't go in the court and just say, I hope to make a good game and then will we see.  
 No, I just go in there and try to win the match.  
  
  Q. The way she screams and grunts on the court, you heard from Vera Zvonareva the other night, and she has a different style. How would you compare it, and what makes Serena so distinctive the way she yells out there?  
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Well, everyone is different. Serena or Sharapova, they have the style, have different style. But, you know, when you are playing, you just think on your game and you don't really listen what they do.   
  
  Q. Well, looking at her game, what do you think is the strategy that someone would have to take to beat her?  
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Well, I think the serve and return are the two points really important. You know, you have to start very aggressive and take the -- be on the court. You cannot be like two meters down. You have to stay in the court and just try to move her.   
 But it's not easy.   
  
  Q. Do you think she has a stronger ambition for this tournament?  
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Yes, I think so. Of course. Well, everyone normally, when you're playing in your country, it's normally you want to do good, and it's different.  
  
  Q. Looking back on this tournament or on this summer, how much are you satisfied with your performance?  
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: I'm happy. Not now in this moment, but, you know, I'm happy because I think I play in the last two months very good tennis. I have a lot of -- I won a lot of good match against good player.   
 Still have like four tournament until the end of the year, and I hope to play in the same way.  
  
  Q. Kim said earlier that when she hit with you in Rosmalen that you were hitting with much more aggression than she had seen before. Would you characterize that as the biggest difference in your game this past year?  
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Yes, I think my ball is more heavy, and it's now -- it's painful, you know. When I put my body on the ball it's really, really heavy. So I improve a lot in the last two years, I think.  
  
  Q. What she noticed, is that what you were specifically going for?  
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Yes. Yes, actually.   
  
  Q. On match point, it was a very long rally. Did you think in your mind, Well, I saved a lot of them the other night?   
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Yes. Why not? (laughter.)  
  
  Q. You think you can qualify for the Fed Cup tie?  
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: I think for the moment it's still -- I'm not there. So I have to play more, and I have to make like a good result in the last three tournaments. This will be not that easy, but I will try.  
  
  Q. This is your goal?  
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Yeah.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT