PILOT PEN TENNIS PRESENTED BY SCHICK
August 28, 2009
Flavia Pennetta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. WOZNIACKI/F. Pennetta
  6-4, 6-1 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about the whole experience of playing indoors like that. It was kind of weird?  
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: It was different. It is. But I think was the same for everyone today. Today was difficult day for everyone, for us, for the tournament director, for the crowd. You know, it's not easy when you have to handle this kind of thing. And also for us was better to play today because we have to go to New York.   
 When they asked me if I want to play indoor, I said yes, because for me was much better. Because if you win, you can stay. If you lose, tomorrow you can go to New York.   
  
  Q. When did they ask about playing indoors?   
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: They started to talk about that about 5, 6. They put like doubles before, 3:30. For the singles, they wait until they can because the TV was waiting for them, for this match. Until 7 they trying to put us in the wet court (laughter).   
  
  Q. Can you tell us about the distractions, noise from the other court.   
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: No. When you are in the court, you just focus on your match. You don't give so much attention to the other things.   
  
  Q. Was your serve just not there today? She obviously broke you easily a few times.   
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Yes, well, I didn't serve very well today. It's a little bit different play indoor to outdoor. The ball was always like really near my head. I didn't jump a lot today. I think she played a great match. She was very focused and very aggressive from the beginning.   
 But I had my chance, but I didn't make it. I'm happy anyway about this tournament. I think I play three good match. I have a chance now to rest a little bit. It's not a good thing, but there is something positive. Tomorrow I will be in New York.   
  
  Q. What is this day like, waiting? How do you handle that?   
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Well, is not easy because we get here this morning at 9:30, and we get on the court at 8. It was not that easy to spend time, you know, because you don't know what you have to do. You have lunch, try to have something before the match. We are focused on what we have to do. But this kind of thing happen a lot in Wimbledon, not in the other tournament. But we used to. We have few tournament in here where actually happen these things.   
  
  Q. How did you spend your time waiting for the match?  
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Was boring, really boring (laughter). Talk. Phone. SMS. Skype. Internet. We play poker a little bit. Then lunch. Then nothing.  
  
  Q. Did you win at poker?  
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: No (laughter).   
  
  Q. When you say you played poker, it wasn't you and?   
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Me, Llagostera, Maria Jose Martinez, our coach. Just for fun.   
  
  Q. Talk about the Open. Do you get excited about playing the US Open or is that just some of the a distracting tournament?  
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: No, I'm exciting to go there. Now in this moment really I don't think about that because I just have one day rest and then I starting to think about that. Anyway, I have to play Monday. I know that already.   
 Of course, it's one of the important tournaments in the year, you know. Is going to be very, very tough from the beginning. But I think I play my good tennis in the last month, so I hope is gonna be the same in New York.   
  
  Q. You played very well there last year. Does that give you some confidence going in?  
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Yeah. Well, I have more confidence because I played this month very good. Not because of last year. Last year was a different thing. It's a long time ago. But I like the tournament. So I hope to make the same result.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT