PILOT PEN TENNIS PRESENTED BY SCHICK
August 27, 2009
Flavia Pennetta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







F. PENNETTA/M. Rybarikova
  6-2, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Can you talk about your play this week. You're going deep into the draw, straight sets. 
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Well, no, I'm really happy about this week. I starting play very good. And today was very good match for me. I didn't make a lot of mistakes. Everything was working very good. 
 I play my best tennis in this tournament in U.S. so I hope to stay going the same way next week. 

 Q. What would a championship here mean for you? Or are you just wanting to get prepared for the Open? 
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: I just look be prepared for the Open, yes. This is the important thing for me, just get there and be ready for fight.

 Q. What do you expect in tomorrow's match?
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Tomorrow I think will be very tough for both. Last time we play in Bastad and she beat me for 6-1 in the third. Was a very tough match. I know I have to play my best tennis for beat her. She start playing much better this week. 
 Nothing special. I just try to play my best tennis my way and then we will see what happen. 

 Q. You played her at the Yale Bowl, too? 
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Yes. Second match (laughter). 

 Q. You said you like playing on the outer courts. This will be your first match in the stadium tomorrow. What kind of difficulties does that pose?
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: No, no, not difficult at all. I gonna practice there tomorrow morning so is gonna be the same. If I can, I prefer to play on the small court. 
 But doesn't matter. In Los Angeles, I was playing in the center every four matches. Los Angeles very big. Other tournament I play so many matches in Cincinnati also in the center. 
 But doesn't matter. Is gonna be the same. 

 Q. What is it about the smaller courts that you prefer?
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: There is not too much space, not too much out, so you don't lose the position. You always see the line and you always go back there. When you have so much out in the back, you starting to go very far. That's it. 

 Q. Can you talk about the draw in the US Open. 
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: I didn't see the draw. I don't like to see it. I know just the first match. I gonna play against Gallovits. It's a good match. I think every first match is very tough. The first match also in the tournament is the tough one because you have to start, there is a lot of pressure, so many things. 
 But I hope to don't play Monday. I hope to play Tuesday. But it's okay. I didn't see the draw. I just see the first round. 

 Q. The weather forecast for the weekend is rain a little bit tomorrow and a lot on Saturday. Are you worried if this tournament get pushed to Sunday?
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: No. They said from the beginning of the week every day is supposed to rain and never rains, so... It's sunny, it's hot. I hope they make a mistake again. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT