WESTERN & SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP WOMEN'S OPEN
August 15, 2009
Flavia Pennetta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 D. SAFINA/F. Pennetta
  6-2, 6-0 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. You looked like you didn't have much left today; is that accurate?  
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Well, no, I think she was playing very great, very good. She didn't make mistake at all, so she was very focused on her game.   
 Too much power today for me.  
  
  Q. This was your 11th match in 13 days, I believe. What toll, what's the greatest toll that kind of activity takes on you? Where do you feel it the most?  
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: After the final in L.A. I was really tired, because always when you finish a tournament it's like everything is going down. You know, all the tension and these things you feeling all week, it's going completely down.  
 So Monday I was pretty tired. But I think I recovered pretty good, because I played three or four matches, pretty high intensity against Venus, and already yesterday was very tough for me.   
 But today she was playing much better of me. I was a little bit tired, of course, but I didn't lose for that. In front was like No. 1 in the world, and she was playing unbelievable.  
  
  Q. Is there anything different you think you could have done?  
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Maybe serve a little better, but I didn't have a lot of power in my leg today. That's why it doesn't work like the day before.   
  
  Q. You said yesterday that you were hurting pretty bad, just kind of fatigued. How did you feel physically today?   
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: No, I'm good. I don't have nothing special, you know, just not much power in my leg. But I don't have nothing serious, so I can be in the court like next week.   
  
  Q. You're in the top 10, or you will be. Can you talk about what that means to have cracked the top?   
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: For me, it's crazy. You know, everyone expect something like that for already one year, so in Italy, everyone is completely crazy. I wake up today with I don't know how many SMS. It's very nice. Nice for me, nice for the people work with me all this year, and also for my family, everyone.   
 I think it's gonna be good for Italian tennis.  
  
  Q. Did you get the sense that they were expecting this of you before?  
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: No, they started to believe like this last year, in the last year, because I was No. 13 and 12 in the world. So they starting to talk about top 10 in January, and keep talking and talking and talking until now.   
 Then we make it, so I'm pretty happy about that.   
  
  Q. What does the last couple of weeks do for you as a player mentally?   
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Of course they give me a lot of confidence because I win a lot of the matches with very good player. I'm confident now. My coach or some people told me, Maybe it's better if you rest a little bit now. But I want to play because I feel great, and I prefer to keep going.   
  
  Q. Was this match a good barometer for you being in the top 10 now and playing the No. 1 to see how far you need to still come to get to that point where Dinara is?   
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: No, today Dinara was playing very good, but I play already I don't know how many time against her. I never win, but I was very close the last time in Stuttgart.   
 So I always think when you -- the draw coming out, if you play against the top seeds, No. 1 or 2, it's bad luck. But in another way, it's always -- maybe in that moment you can beat them, because always they starting like to play better and better. Every match they improve.  
 Maybe if you have a chance to beat them it's first or second round, because she started the tournament not playing very well and she's getting much better every match.  
 In Stuttgart it was very close. I didn't take the chance, but today she was just better of me.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT