WESTERN & SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP WOMEN'S OPEN
August 14, 2009
Flavia Pennetta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







F. PENNETTA/D. Hantuchova
  6-3, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. You'll move into the top 10 with this. Has that been a goal of yours, and what does it mean to you?
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Well, it means a lot. Everyone expect something like that from the beginning of the year because I was No. 11 in February. So everyone like talk about it all the time. 
 You know, it's dream come true for me. I always hope to be one of the best players in the world, and now I'm there. So it's crazy. 

 Q. Now you get to play the No. 1 player. What do you think about tomorrow's match? 
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Well, about tomorrow match, you know, I play already her a few times. I always lose against her. She's a good player. Today I think she played a very good match, and also yesterday.
 In the beginning of the week she didn't play very well, but she's starting to play much better match after match. So I think it's gonna be really tough tomorrow. 
 But, you know, I go tomorrow I think in the court and just really enjoy this moment. I don't have nothing to lose. 

 Q. How much does it help that you are playing with this winning streak? 
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Well, you mean because I play a lot of matches and I still winning? 

 Q. Yeah. Is it 15 in a row now?
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Yeah. Of course it gives me a lot of confidence. When you go on the court and you are tired and you think you cannot do it and you are there and you find some energy, I don't know from where, but you still believe you can do it. 
 I was very happy today, because I was really tired in the hand and my legs and back. Everything start to feeling a little bit. But when you're there, you're just running and trying to think what you have to do for playing.

 Q. What were your goals when you first started to come through? Was top 10 a main goal, or it was a Grand Slam? 
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Well, in the beginning it was like Rome. Winning Rome, like with all your people there, everyone. It's something different, I think.
 But of course a Grand Slam, and then to be top 10, of course.

 Q. So what do you think the reaction will be in Italy to this?
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Crazy.

 Q. Have you spoken people at home yet?
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: I just with my mom. I receive already I don't know how many SMS, so I think it's gonna be crazy now.

 Q. When will be the next time you get to go home?
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: After US Open, so I can be relaxing then. Maybe it's better for me to be here. Like this I can be more focus. Then after this long trip of tournaments, I go there and I really enjoy this moment.
 Now I prefer to be focus on what I'm doing.

 Q. Was your ankle bothering you today?
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Well, there is one part of the body that doesn't bother me. I have really -- my legs are very -- all the right part of my body, it's very tired. 

 Q. You fell over at one stage. Were you okay? 
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Yeah. No, I was really -- like I have blisters on my foot, so it's normal. Because when you play so much in these courts it's normal. It was a little bit pain, but I can handle. 
 Until when I can I gonna be on the court, and when I cannot, I stop it. 

 End of FastScripts 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT