WESTERN & SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP WOMEN'S OPEN
August 13, 2009
Flavia Pennetta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 F. PENNETTA/V. Williams
  7-6, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. What are your thoughts on your performance and win this afternoon?   
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: What I think about that? Well, I'm really, really happy. I'm really excited, because in the beginning, this morning when I wake up I was a little bit tired.   
 But when I went to the court, I just was focused on my game and everything was working very well. So I'm really happy about that.   
  
  Q. Last week you won the tournament in L.A., and this week you're just plowing through the draw right now. How are you feeling about your confidence?  
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Of course my confidence now it's perfect, you know. It's always when you win a lot of matches like this you believe more in yourself.  
 When I get in the court today, I was just believing in myself and just believe I can beat her again, so...  
  
  Q. She was making a lot of errors. Were you just trying to keep the ball in play to let her make some mistakes?   
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Well, I think she make a lot mistakes today just because I was playing really consistent. I didn't make a lot of mistakes, so she tried to find something different. That's why she started making mistakes.  
  
  Q. Do you approach the match any differently when you're playing against the No. 1, 2, or 3, especially the Williams sisters?  
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Not really. The only thing I get when I play with the some of great player like that, I just go in the court and think I can beat them, you know. Because most of the player get in the court and think, oh, I would like to make a good match against them.  
 Most of the time you get on the court and we have to think we can beat everyone. If you can do it, you gonna do it.  
 If you go on the court and just think you want to make a good result, I don't want to lose 6-Love, 6-Love, you can never win against them.  
  
  Q. You said after the match you were shaking. Is that unusual for you?  
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Yes, very unusual. I don't know, the emotion was crazy, you know. Coming from Los Angeles I didn't have a lot of day to rest. I was playing like last -- yesterday, not my best tennis. I was tired.   
 When it's everything together, the emotions go up.   
  
  Q. Did you ever feel like you were losing the match at any point when she kept coming back, or did you feel in control the whole time?  
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: No, no. I was thinking I can lose the match in every -- tennis is strange sport. In one ball everything can change. Until the end, you to think you can lose or win. Until the last point, you have to still play and be ready for everything.  
  
  Q. Did you have the confidence the whole way through?   
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Yeah, I was confident today. (Laughter.)  
  
  Q. Any thoughts on the quarterfinals tomorrow?   
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: No, nothing.   
  
  Q. You gonna let this sink in a little bit?  
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: I don't want to think about that now.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT