U.S. OPEN
September 3, 2008
Flavia Pennetta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  D. SAFINA/F. Pennetta  
6-2, 6-3  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. What happened today? Did she just play too well or were you a bit nervous?  
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: No, I think she played very well today.   
 I starting -- I think I starting good, so I wasn't very nervous or nothing like this, you know. I was just focused on my game and just try to play -- to hit the ball, but she was playing unbelievable, you know.   
 She didn't give me a lot of chance.  
  
  Q. What makes her so good? Is it her power? Is it just her power that makes her so strong?  
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Well, she didn't make mistake. She was hitting harder. This is very important. When you don't make mistake and you always make a lot of winners, it's tough to beat someone.  
  
  Q. What was it like being in the first Grand Slam quarterfinal for you?  
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Well, I think it's a good result, but I would like to make more, you know.   
 It's just one -- I make already three or four fourth round. It's not the first time, you know. I always going in the Grand Slam, but it's quarterfinal, it's unbelievable.   
 But I hope next year or, yeah, next year, to make more.  
  
  Q. Was it frustrating today, or did you just didn't have a chance to get into the match?   
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Well, a little bit. I have one chance in the second set, and she play like line, line, and net. So when it's like this, you can -- nothing to do.   
 I was fighting until the final. For me, it was very important to just stay there and try until the last point.  
  
  Q. Her first set wasn't very good today. She only had like 57, 58% success rate.   
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Uh-huh.  
  
  Q. Was there any chance for you to use that to your advantage?   
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Well, the rest for her was very easy today. So I was nervous, because for her, she didn't make mistake on my first serve. I was trying always to find ace, ace, ace. It's tough when you try something different, you know.   
 Anyway, the serve is not my best shot. I know that, and it's -- I improve a lot in the last year, but it's still not very stable.  
  
  Q. How do you think Dinara will do in the semifinals and onwards?  
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: I don't know. I think that we have to see the match tonight, and then -- I don't tell you something. I cannot say something about the match for tomorrow.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT