U.S. OPEN
September 9, 2015
Flavia Pennetta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








F. PENNETTA/P. Kvitova
4-6, 6-4, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Petra was in earlier and said she wasn't all that disappointed because she played very, very well and you simply outplayed her.  Is that how you would describe it?
FLAVIA PENNETTA: I think we both play very well.  It was a good fight.  In the end I play a little bit better.
Physically I was better than her in the last set, so that was the difference, for sure.
Q. How do you feel about being back in the semifinals where you were a couple years ago?  Who knows who you're going to play; they are slugging it out right now.  How do you feel about being back in the semis?
FLAVIA PENNETTA: Of course I'm really, really happy.  It's something incredible.  Before the tournament I never think to be so far in the tournament, so it's something special.  It's something amazing for me in this moment.
Q. Why did you not think that, because you have been there before?
FLAVIA PENNETTA: No, because I didn't play really well in the last week and the feeling was not that good.  I just come here and try to practice, try to find the good feeling with the ball, with the atmosphere here, and everything it seems working.  (Smiling.)
Q. Yesterday your countrywoman, Roberta Vinci, said how proud Italy was to have her in the semis, but they may be even more proud to have two women in the semis.  How proud are you, and how proud is your country at the moment?
FLAVIA PENNETTA: Of course I'm very proud.  Of course yesterday when I saw Roberta in the locker, I mean, I hug her and I say -- I mean, she was amazing yesterday also.
I think this is really important for our country.  We did a lot of good things in the last 10 years.  We have me, Roberta, Francesca, Sara, now Camila is coming also.
So I think it's really good for Italian tennis to have such a good player.
Q. They say to never talk to women about their age, but Schiavone...
FLAVIA PENNETTA: We are old.  I know.
Q. Thank you.
FLAVIA PENNETTA: I mean, old for tennis.  For the life we are younger.  (Smiling.)
Q. But just talk about that.  There must be just some reason for that.
FLAVIA PENNETTA: No, there is no reason.  I mean, also Serena, she is not that young.  I mean, of course we are a little bit old for the age of tennis right now.  A lot of young players coming in the last -- since the Olympic game, I think, was a little bit of change of generation.
But we are here.  We still fight.  We still enjoy what we did.  I think this is important.
Q. Talk about the role of Fed Cup just over the past many years.  You have had success after success.  Has that helped you guys?  Has it pushed each of you?
FLAVIA PENNETTA: I mean, I think was really important for all of us because sometimes I mean, I starting the year in 2009 with the top 10 and then Francesca won Roland Garros and then Sara come.  Everyone was pushing the other one.
I think it was really important for us to have someone before us just to try to catch it all the time.
Q. People aren't really giving Roberta much of a chance against Serena tomorrow, but from your perspective, what about Roberta's game is so difficult on court?
FLAVIA PENNETTA: I mean, Roberta, she's completely like a different player.  I mean, she's one of the -- maybe the only one.  And there is another one, Niculescu.  They play different in that way.
But of course -- I think she have chance tomorrow.  I mean, she has to go in the court and try her best.  She don't have nothing to lose.  She has in front of her Serena Williams.  I mean, you just have to go on court and try everything.
I mean, she make a really good tournament.  She has to believe that she can make it, because if you go on the court you are not that sure or you are thinking, Okay, it's done; I'm okay, like this, it's going to be bad.
Q. We don't know of course who your next opponent will be.  Can we take each player separately?  Would you please speak about them as individuals and what you feel about the challenge with each?
FLAVIA PENNETTA: I mean, they are really good both.  Amazing players.  Powerful.  They have everything.  I mean, they are now in court and fighting and running and try everything to get through this round.
Doesn't matter who I gonna play tomorrow, because I think they are both really good and it's going to be a big fight with both of them.
Q. So in terms of style of play, let's start with Vika.  When you watch her play, what do you consider her...
FLAVIA PENNETTA: I cannot tell you right now.  Because I cannot tell you what I want to do against her or against the other one.  Maybe after the match we gonna talk about that.  (Smiling.)
Q. How about just to describe Vika.  When you look at her and you see her play, what are the things she does that most impress you?
FLAVIA PENNETTA: I mean, she play really aggressive all the time, good backhand, good forehand; first serve really good; second one you can attack a little bit better.
You have to push her all the time, because if you give her a time to push you, you gonna die on the court.
Q. And how about Halep?
FLAVIA PENNETTA: Halep, it's look like she's not that powerful like Vika but she is.  She is more powerful, I think.  To make a winner to her you have to finish the point seven times.  She always there, always in -- the ball is always come back.
It's gonna be like marathon, I think.
Q. Her getting to No. 2 in the world, what do you consider her greatest attributes that have brought her to that place?
FLAVIA PENNETTA: She's really consistent.  I mean, from the beginning of the year until now she's really like -- she didn't play really well Roland Garros and Wimbledon, but I think for different things, not about tennis.
Maybe she had too much pressure outside the court.  I mean, everyone expecting so much.  She has two months where she was a little bit like scaring, not of everything.  But now she's back in the same way she start the beginning of the year, focus and with a lot of the determination.
Q. You mentioned Niculescu, who of course at Indian Wells played Serena and gave Serena a big, big headache.  Just talk about how that might be a matchup problem in terms of Roberta going in.
FLAVIA PENNETTA: Well, Roberta has two things much better than Niculescu.  She serve much better and with the forehand she can make a lot of winners.  You cannot compare one with the other one because they do like different thing comparing to the other player.
But Roberta and Niculescu, they are different player.  I mean, Niculescu is more physically maybe, stronger.  She is running much more.  But Roberta has winner, has a good serve.  I mean, it's different in this way.
Q. Regardless of who you play tomorrow you have beaten them before.  What would it mean to you to make a final?
FLAVIA PENNETTA: I don't know.  I gonna tell you if I have a chance to beat her.  (Smiling.)
Q. How does being in the semifinal here before help you?  You have been in the semifinal before.  How does that help you?
FLAVIA PENNETTA: Nothing today.  I mean, you just go on court and play.  I mean, doesn't matter if you make final, semifinal, quarterfinal years before.  You just try to play the match the best you can and nothing more.
Q. Are you happy it's being played at night rather than the weird sunny/shade like today?
FLAVIA PENNETTA: If I could choose I prefer night session, of course, because I like the light.  It's not the big problem for me with playing with light.
And play with this, I mean, the shade on the court was a disaster today.  I was not able to see.  I mean, was the same for her, for sure.  I mean, it's not easy.
But it was the same for both of us.
Q. New York obviously has a big Italian-American population.  Do you have any contacts here?  Family here?  Have you gone to Little Italy?
FLAVIA PENNETTA: No, no, I didn't have any family here, but I like a lot to go to Italian restaurant when I can.  I have some friends, they have restaurant here.  I try to be home just to with the good food.  (Smiling.)
Q. Playing doubles last year with Martina, what kind of tips did she give you for singles and playing well in majors?
FLAVIA PENNETTA: I mean, she's a good player and you can -- she's a champion, no?  So it's always nice to have someone like her with you.
But she didn't say, told me nothing like different that I already know, but was a really nice to play with her.  I really enjoyed the time we spent together.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT