SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
October 2, 2020
Mi Hyang Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. You're at 10-under par overall heading into the weekend.  How would you assess your overall play in the second round?
MI HYANG LEE:   So actually was a little chilly this morning, so a little be like (indiscernible) swing this morning still.
But I think it was make the great two birdies the front nine two holes in a row.  So it was a great conditions, but I made first bogey hole No.  6, my back nine, then I three-putted.
Then another bad luck at 7 and 8.  Still I made two bogeys, but still make the 2-under par, then really look forward to play this weekend.
Q. You had those two bogeys coming in.  How do you get rid of those, get those out of your mind as quick as possible going into the weekend?
MI HYANG LEE:   For sure it wasn't feel good when I just made the first bogey, and but, you know, just I only made the one bogey and only the two bogeys in today, and I think that's really good scoring this 36 hole, only two bogeys.
Q. You're a two-time champion on the LPGA Tour.  How do you take those experiences that you've had in the past, and when did you start to draw on those going into the weekend as you look to make a run up the leaderboard?
MI HYANG LEE:   Still I have two days left and I'm just -- I like to do -- try do my best.  I don't want to think any golf score.  Just I want to do my golf.  Yeah, that's my goal.
Q. How different did the course perhaps play from the afternoon wave yesterday to the morning today?
MI HYANG LEE:   It was less wind as yesterday I think so it was more good easier to get the second shot hit the green on par-5.
So but it was really chilly in the morning, then my distance was a little shorter than my normal.  But it was good.  Yeah, it was good.
Q. Do you like playing with the lead, as the leader, or would you prefer coming back and playing from behind?
MI HYANG LEE:   From behind.
Q. Why?
MI HYANG LEE:   More less pressure probably.
Q. Did you feel any pressure at all today being the 18 hole co-leader?
MI HYANG LEE:   No, no.  Just we played same group and same people, same player.  Everything was good, and just I think I had miss one shot and then one just bad luck.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT