RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
August 5, 2017
Mi Hyang Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  5-under par today, up to 8-under overall.  Tell me a little bit about your round.  
MI HYANG LEE: Good start the front nine.  Actually like four birdies from No. 2.  But then I think I have a little up-and-down the back nine, but made a pretty good recovery for another birdie.   
Just pretty happy to make seven birdies.  I think tomorrow will be just like more -- less mistakes.   
 Q.  Is there anything you did particularly well to make the four birdies in a role?  
MI HYANG LEE: My putter was really good.  I made a lot of long putts.  On the sixth, I recovered my third shot and made par over there.  It was good, kept going.   
 Q.  You're relatively new to links golf, but you won last week at the Ladies Scottish Open.  How much confidence does that give you coming into this week?  
MI HYANG LEE: Actually this golf course more harder than last week because it's a major event and it's more longer.   
But yeah, yesterday was tough because a lot of heavy rain, but today was a little less wind, and the first round is less wind.  Feels more easier than last week.  But just I missed a lot of putts.  That's it, yeah.   
 Q.  Do you feel you're getting used to the tough conditions that Scotland keeps throwing at you?  
MI HYANG LEE: Sure.  It's like always be -- I think this week is like best weather in Scotland.   
 Q.  Game plan for tomorrow?  Last week obviously you came through the field on the final day.  This week you could be up there going into the final day.  
MI HYANG LEE: Of course, just happy to make the birdie on the front nine, and then yeah, hopefully just a good start and then I can get the recovery for tomorrow, too.   
 Q.  In terms of the fact of your schedule, you're playing last week and you're playing this week, what would you say to your friends if they say, should you play in the Scottish the week before the RICOH, or should you have the week off?  
MI HYANG LEE: I liked to play the Scottish because it was a really good experience for the British.  So yeah, I'm happy to play the Scottish, yeah.   
 Q.  You'd recommend it to your friends?  
MI HYANG LEE: Of course.  Of course.  I think a lot of players, it was a really good experience and it was really good practice for here.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT