SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
October 1, 2020
Mi Hyang Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Bogey-free 8-under par to start the ShopRite LPGA Classic.  Had to feel good to put that number up on the board.  How did it feel out there for you?
 MI HYANG LEE:   Yeah, I think it was really good start for me the first round, and I really look forward to after three rounds.  Just want to keep doing my best, and I think today everything was good.  Just even I didn't get any bad shot and bad putt, so everything was good.
 Then I think that's why I shoot 8-under par.
 Q. And combined your group shot 17-under par, the three of you total.
 MI HYANG LEE:   Yeah.
 Q. How nice was it to have two playing partners that were trying to match you shot for shot and to have that momentum back and forth?
 MI HYANG LEE:   Yes, of course.  Our team was really good the score we had and we make a lot of birdie today.
 You know, I think we almost every hole like say like, Good shot to each other and, Nice birdie to each other, too.
 So, yeah, it was really good day to us.
 Q. How did the course play this afternoon?
 MI HYANG LEE:   I thought it's a little bit wet, but it was not bad.  We did like (indiscernible) lie, so it was really good for us, too.  And then green was really soft, so I think that's why more easier to play the long club.
 And, yeah, I think everything was good though.
 Q. When you have now a four-day tournament instead of a three that you're used to here at ShopRite, how much of a difference is that on this course specifically?
 MI HYANG LEE:   Oh, so normally just we practice until Thursday and we can take more time, but this week was a little bit -- try get a little bit rush though.  We start practice on Tuesday.
 But then still no pro-am so we can still practice two days in a row.  So, yeah, I think that's different.  It's not much different as before.
 Q. Still a long way to go.  It's obviously the first round, but you're tied for the lead.  How do id you sort of -- what are you thoughts on that, being tied for the lead, after the first day basically?
 MI HYANG LEE:   I had experience tied for the lead the first round before, but I think anyway just I have three more rounds left.  I have to just concentrate to my golf and then just keep going.
 I don't want to change anything and I don't want to think about anymore bigger than just right now.  Yeah.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT