THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 26, 2019
Mi Hyang Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  4-under today.  Talk us through the eagle at 18.  
MI HYANG LEE: Actually, tee is forward than yesterday so play a little shorter today.  Then my driver was really good.  Then my second hybrid punch shot was really straight to the pin.   
Then I feel was like good with my putter today, so I think I had a lot of confident with the putt and made it.   
 Q.  And the round as a whole, what else were you very happy with?  
MI HYANG LEE: Good start the first, second holes, but I had a little trouble hole on No. 9.  I think No. 10 through No. 15 I just missed the fairway whole holes.   
But I think I kept going.  I think I did it.  And then just like try to control my mind by myself.  Then I think it was works, and good finish 16, 17, 18.   
 Q.  Yeah.  I don't want to focus on the negative, but that double bogey at 9, when you're making the turn, mentally how does that affect you?  
MI HYANG LEE: So I try to think positive, but still feel was so bad because it was par-5 and I think a lot of player have chance to make birdie over there.  I make double.  I mean, even not bogey.  I mean, feel was so bad.   
Just like trying keep thinking nine holes left and I have two more rounds left.  I don't know.  Just keep trying to calm and be nice and it works.   
 Q.  10-under for the tournament; 4-under on the day.  
MI HYANG LEE: Yes.   
 Q.  You birdied the first two holes both days.  What's been key to getting off to such strong starts?  
MI HYANG LEE: Just I try to keep fairway 1st hole.  Then I can go even pitching wedge and 9-iron, so I think more had a chance.   
Then I hit a good shot the both day and made the par.  Then 2nd hole was I think my tee shot was good and then I made the great putt.  Uh-huh.   
 Q.  You hit ten greens in regulation and only one hole over bogey.  You were really consistent around the greens with your chipping.  What was the key?  
MI HYANG LEE: I don't know.  Yes, I think I missed a lot of green today, but was trying to think simple and just shot by shot.  I think I had a little luck also.  Yeah, was good.  (Laughter.)  I don't know.   
 Q.  After the 9th hole, the only hole you had over, a bogey today, what did you tell yourself to steady yourself and finish bogey-free and 4-under on the back nine?  
MI HYANG LEE: So yesterday was miss the fairway the hole No. 9 then make a par.  Even today hit the fairway but I miss my second shot to the right.  So even like I just not expect with the birdie, but not expect the double either.   
So I thought I could make the par but it was worse to make the double, so my mental is so mad at myself.  Try to think just I have nine holes left and two more rounds left.   
I try keep thinking more positive and just keep going.  Then was good.  Yes, I think it's works, yeah.   
 Q.  You finished birdie, birdie, eagle today.  
MI HYANG LEE: Yeah.   
 Q.  What kind of momentum does that give you heading into the weekend?  
MI HYANG LEE: I think hole No. 16 is one of the hardest hole today.  Pin position was like really hard.   
If I had a good shot I think I had birdie chance if I go like straight to the pin.  Then it was very good shot then I think my putt was six feet.   
Then No. 17 was also pitching wedge and like six feet also.   
I think No. 18 I made bogey yesterday, but today is like tees forward a little bit so I thoughts more had a chance to make easy birdie today.  Wind is better than yesterday also.   
So it was kept fairway my tee shot, and my second shot hybrid was really good.  Then I think 18 feet right of the pin.  It was a simple lie.  It was easy putt.  (Laughter.)   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT