THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 25, 2019
Mi Hyang Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 6-under today.  How do you feel about your round?
MI HYANG LEE: First off I think really happy to my putts better than last few tournament, because like last few tournament my putt was averaging 36, but I think today is like 40 something.  (Wind interference.)
I made bogey the last hole, so feel a little not very happy, but still happy with 65, 6-under par with this golf course.
Q. What happened on 18?
MI HYANG LEE: I don't know.  Just get windy.  So last hole was just left-to-right wind and I try to draw it but still going to the right; miss way right.
But anyway, ball wasn't good so I tried to lay up.  Then lay up was too long, so I (indiscernible - wind) the other rough, then lay up again, 4-under, and two-putt.
Q. How will your strategy change for tomorrow?
MI HYANG LEE: I don't know.  I think weather is be better than today.  Maybe less hot and less windy.  It was really hot today, so hopefully weather's get better.  Just I want to keep going.  Feels good, so I don't want to change anything.
Q. Still one back from the lead.  How do you feel about that position?
MI HYANG LEE: Anyway three rounds left, so just start the first round.  If I just keep it going, if I get it good, mean I have more chances.
Q. What was your preparation like coming into the week?
MI HYANG LEE: Always I'm feeling good with this tournament when I was rookie, so I will try do my best, and then hopefully had luck.  (Laughter.)
Q. You were very consistent; four birdies and a bogey on each side.  What was the key to your consistency today?
MI HYANG LEE: First thing my shot was really good and my putt was really, really good.  That's why I think I made a lot of birdie.
Then I missed some driver.  Two hole miss a driver.  (Wind interference.)
Q. In spite of missing some drivers you found the green in regulation 15 out of 18 times today.  What was your approach to finding so many greens?
MI HYANG LEE: I don't know.  I mean, I think this golf course had (wind interference) green in regulation, so I try to use, like read the slopes.  So every hole, every shot I try to talk with my caddie about use the slope and it was work, so more chance for the birdie.
Q. Wind picked up with about an hour to go in your round.  How did you make an adjustment when the wind really picks up like it did here?
MI HYANG LEE: Yes, the wind picked up from my 16, par-3.  It was good par, 16 and 17, but wind was so strong for me on 18 tee shots so I pushed the ball.  I tried to draw it but still going to the way right.  Just happened.  It's fine.  But I did miss.
Q. Despite a slight miss at 18 you have been very consistent here at Evian Resort Golf Course.  What is it about this golf course that brings out the best in your game?
MI HYANG LEE: For sure I love this golf course.  Actually just I made top 20 when was rookie and then I don't need to go back to Q-School, so always I have good feeling at this tournament.  Always happy to be back here.  Hopefully win this week.
Q. What does it mean to come to a tournament when you have a good feeling like this coming in?
MI HYANG LEE: I don't know.  It's like last few weeks wasn't bad, but this week like my putts just go in.  You know, so just feels good.  Just feels good.  Hard to explain it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT