NBA DRAFT
June 28, 2006
Rudy Gay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  What were your feelings about slipping just a little bit and what was your reaction when your name was called? 
 RUDY GAY:  You know, personally, you know, I just felt like, you know, kind of let down.  But then again, you know, it's all about right fit.  I feel as though I can be a good fit on any of the teams that I play for. 

 Q.  Going to Houston, how does that feel? 
 RUDY GAY:  Honestly, you know, I'm not saying we, because I'm not sure I'm going to play there yet.  But the team, it's a great team.  We have an All-Star in Tracy McGrady, we have Yao Ming who is also an All-Star and you have a lot of great players around him. 
 I'm just hoping to there and contribute, do what I can. 

 Q.  In case you end up in Memphis as we all expect, did they work you out at all?  Were you in contact with any of their people? 
 RUDY GAY:  No, I haven't.  I didn't work out with them at all.  I guess they saw something the other seven teams didn't see. 

 Q.  What were your thoughts as you watched the picks, 1 through 7 unfold, what was going through your mind? 
 RUDY GAY:  I was just thinking, you know, hopefully I end up in the right place for me.  And Houston seems like a place that could be a good fit for me, and also Memphis.  I'm pretty happy with the pick.  Although, competitively I am kind of mad that I slipped. 

 Q.  What is it about the Big East and UConn, what is it about them that produces NBA players? 
 RUDY GAY:  This is a tough league.  As you can see this year, that expanded, and we didn't lose a step.  Every team is a contender for the NCAA every year, basically.  It's a great league to be in.  I wouldn't change anything for the world, and it definitely made me ready for what I'm about to get into. 

 Q.  Do you think your game has caught up to your athletic ability yet? 
 RUDY GAY:  I think, yeah, it has, being that, you know, I've worked on it so much.  I took a lot of time and I used this time to get better as a player.  Too bad you didn't see that during the season, but I think, you know, that's what this was for. 
 You know, I went to these teams and tried to show them something that I had, and I think that should show them that, you know, I'm trying to be a good player in this league. 

 Q.  Granted you stay in Houston and you don't move, how exciting would it be to play with Tracy McGrady, one of the best players in the NBA and learning from him? 
 RUDY GAY:  Learning from him would be great.  Basically I kind of patterned my game after his, I have in the past, and he was definitely a role model for me and a person that I've looked up to.  And you have to, given his play on the court.  He's a great talent and hopefully I'll get to see what type of guy he is. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT