U.S. OPEN
September 8, 1994
Patrick Galbraith
Elna Reinach
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  How excited are you guys? 
 
ELNA REINACH:  We are very.  I am.  I just don't show it very much.  
 

Q.  Why is that? 
 
ELNA REINACH:  I guess I am just kind of conservative.  So that is just the way I am and, like, even though I am excited no one really, like, notices it.  If you know me really well, you will know I am excited.  
 

Q.  How?  If we were all intimate friends of yours what would you be doing now? 
 
ELNA REINACH:  You'd just know I am excited.  You would be able to see it.  
 

Q.  And you, Pat? 
 
PATRICK GALBRAITH:  I am excited. You know, it is nice to win your first Grand Slam title and granted, I'd probably rather have it in the men's doubles, like Elna in the women's doubles, but a Grand Slam title is a Grand Slam title and I am one up on my partner now.  
 

Q.  He will love to hear that.  Is this a first Grand Slam title for both of you? 
 
ELNA REINACH:  Yes.  
 
PATRICK GALBRAITH:  Yes.  Actually I made a bet with my coach after we lost first round.  He says, "You can do really well in the mixed doubles."  I said, "I just want to get out of here," and I said, "If I win the mixed doubles I will give you all my prize money," and I said, "Wait a minute, I will give you $5,000 if I win the mixed doubles."  So he has got a $5,000 check coming to him, but I don't mind paying it.  
 

Q.  I don't mean this to make it sound the wrong way, is it tough to maintain your intensities throughout the mixed doubles tournaments because a lot of players who are higher ranked and have done well -- if you lose in doubles or singles, you want to pack it in and go home.  Is it hard to give it 100% all the time? 
 
PATRICK GALBRAITH:  I think it is harder for the men, to be honest with you.  I think the women look at it at as a great opportunity.  Where I was wondering, why I was playing because if I lost early in the men's doubles, I'd want to go home.  If I did well, I didn't want to deal with the mixed, but, you know, once we won our first few matches, you know, then, you know, I got into it and yeah, it was a huge let-down after we lost the men's doubles.  I was real tired for about 4-5 days.  We had a long summer.  By the weekend, I kind of caught my breath and started to play pretty good.  And got pumped up.  
 

Q.  What made you want to play with Elna? 
 
PATRICK GALBRAITH:  We played before.  
 

Q.  1992 you reached the semis. 
 
PATRICK GALBRAITH:  Yeah, and just that-- I actually was playing New Haven two weeks ago and overheard her sister and Ben /REPBS Berg talking and she played with Chris /STOE at Wimbledon.  I heard them talking that she wasn't playing with who she normally plays with.  I thought she must be available.  I asked Monica to check with Elna; see if she wanted to play mixed doubles.  
 

Q.  What was the key for you guys today? Obviously, they are a very tough team, experienced players doubles players, how did you win it?  What was your strategy going out there? 
 
ELNA REINACH:  I don't think we had any strategy, but just to play our game.  Both pretty good returners, so if we -- if they had a slightly off day, they are going to have problems with us.  I mean, because they have to serve really well in order to win their games because if I return well Patrick kills the ball.  I don't have to worry about the next ball coming back, but I think they pretty much knew that they had to play well because our strengths are our returns.  
 
PATRICK GALBRAITH:  Was pretty windy out there which is-- it is real tough to hit good shots in the wind; you just want to play real solid and keep getting the ball on the court; that is what we did and they made a lot of errors.  I think they -- I think they might have taken us a little bit lightly.  I think they kind of -- might have thought they had it in the bag.  
 

Q.  It must be -- how tough is it to play mixed doubles when you are not playing the event year-round, any of you -- because, it is pretty much just played at the Slams, and you don't play with the same partners all the time.  It is a completely different game than men's or women's doubles, right, is it difficult to get out there and play consistently well or do you get to a groove after a couple of matches? 
 
PATRICK GALBRAITH:  I mean, at least for the men, I think you have got to be very relaxed; you can't take it too seriously.  When you start taking it too seriously, you are in trouble because you are going to get frustrated; you are just not used to some of the shots you have to hit, and, you know, mixed doubles -- anything can happen.  You can lose first round.  I mean Zvereva lost first round with Eltingh at the Australia Open and lost first round with Connell at the French Open and those are the two top five players in the world and she is a great player and you never know what is going to happen.  You just got to go out and be relaxed and enjoy it.  I mean that is we have said through the whole week.  We are going to enjoy every match.  We are going to have fun.  If we win, great; if we lose, it is not that big a deal.  
 

Q.  Is your coach expecting some kind of bonus? 
 
ELNA REINACH:  I don't really have a coach at this stage, so ...  
 

Q.  All the money is for you? 
 
ELNA REINACH:  The money goes for me.  
 

Q.  Elna, I am sure you have heard this before:  How is it being a woman out there at the end of some very big shots and overheads and the fast balls when you are at the net? 
 
ELNA REINACH:  I think the girl just has to keep her head in the sense that she just needs to expect every ball to come to her. The guys are going to want to hit to the girl because that is the easier play for them, or they think that they are going to get the point easier that way and if the girl is just steady on her side she doesn't have to be great.  She just needs to be steady and hold her ground, and then you basically -- that is when you do well.  And this week I have been playing really well; the guys have been getting bit frustrated with me because I was getting some balls back they didn't expect I would, so that sometimes makes them want to play even better, and that is where they make the mistake of trying to hit better and better shots every time.  
 

Q.  You guys kind of play a little unorthodox usually kind of see the girl on the deuce court? 
 
ELNA REINACH:  I play backhand in doubles, so I prefer playing backhand.  
 
PATRICK GALBRAITH:  And I play forehand now for about eight years and so even if I play with a woman who wants to play the deuce court I tell her you are playing the ad court, and because I am just a lot better on the deuce side. And, you know, my returns and second shots, I am just so used to doing it on the deuce court, and I'd rather use that as practice too for the men's doubles.  
 

Q.  Does your mother play international senior events? 
 
ELNA REINACH:  She did this year for the first time.  
 

Q.  That is your mom? 
 
ELNA REINACH:  Yes.  
 

Q.  What is her name? 
 
ELNA REINACH:  Elna.  
 

Q.  You are from a real -- did she teach you to play herself? 
 
ELNA REINACH:  Yeah, she coached me since I was 6.  
 

Q.  And Pat, have you been asked to play Davis Cup doubles at all? 
 
PATRICK GALBRAITH:  Actually, Tom Gullikson has talked to me.  The real problem I have right now is I played the Canadian and if Connell was an American, he would be playing for sure and there is no real American team and it is frustrating to me to not play and he knows that, and -- but I understand his predicament too.  It is tough to pick me when I haven't played with Jonathan Stark before.  We should mesh very well. I play like his partner and he plays like my partner, but I mean, it is a tough call for him to risk that in Davis Cup match.  Hopefully in the next couple of months I will be able to play some with Stark and then he will have something to go on, but yeah, I mean, it is frustrating because right now, while Stark is No. 1 too, but I don't want to go down as the only player in history to be No. 1 in the world and never play Davis Cup. And there is a chance that could happen.  
 

Q.  Both you and Jonathan have talked this with your partners Gullikson and might play a couple -- 
 
PATRICK GALBRAITH:  Yeah, tried to work it out.  There is five tournaments in the year that both Jonathan and I are playing.  They are all championship series events.  The race for Jakarta, the World Doubles Championship is too vital, and both Stark and Black are doing very well and Connell and I are doing very well, and if we could get three or four tournaments a year which I think we can do, no problem, but we have to know ahead of time.  
 

Q.  You are pretty -- from what he has told you, it is probably going to be McEnroe and Palmer against Sweden? 
 
PATRICK GALBRAITH:  Maybe.  
 

Q.  You still may have a shot? 
 
PATRICK GALBRAITH:  I don't think I have a shot, but you know, that is Tom's call who's picking.  I am not in the hunt.  And I mean, yeah, it's frustrating when he gets interviewed and he is asked who you are looking at, and, you know, they are mentioning guys who have been ranked behind me for a while. But that is the way it goes.  I mean, that is one of my goals.  I have always wanted to play Davis Cup so it is very difficult for me to sit and watch the other teams play, but you know, hopefully I will get my chance.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT