BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 24, 2012
Richard S. Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Good finish to a great day for you?
RICHARD S. JOHNSON:   It was probably one much my pest ball‑striking rounds of my career I think.   I hit 17 greens, 13 fairways, and the front nine, very frustrating.   I hit it closer on the front nine than the back and shot even par and shot 5‑under on the back. 
It's just a funny game sometimes.   I made a couple good‑sized putts on the back nine and I 3‑putted a putt from six feet on the front, so I mean, it's just give and take. 

Q.   I guess it's a good sign that you're disappointed?
RICHARD S. JOHNSON:   I'm pretty happy overall.   It was nice to see a few putts go in on the front nine. 

Q.   And with weather like this in the Tour's biggest event of the season, it must be a pleasure to play. 
RICHARD S. JOHNSON:   It's hard not to be happy when it's 25 Celsius and sun shining in England.   

Q.   Doesn't happen often?
RICHARD S. JOHNSON:   Well, summer is the best day of the year. 

Q.   How have you gone playing? 
RICHARD S. JOHNSON:   Last year I had problems with injuries, I had a tough year.   Made a bad decision of playing with my injury ask lost my status in America.   So playing on past champion, I'll probably play ten events over there this year and fill up with the rest over here. 
Today I hit 17 greens, 13 fairways, and it was just a pleasure, but it's just a funny game.   I probably hit it closer on the front nine than I did on the back and shot even par on the front and 5‑under on the back.   It's just one of those days.   I had a few putts go in on the back nine and it was nice to see them finally drop.
The greens are fairly firm, and they are not very fast, so it's kind of hard to get it to the hole sometimes.   But with the weather like this, with low wind, it's definitely out there for scoring.

Q.   Does this fit with how well you've been playing of late?   Has this been coming? 
RICHARD S. JOHNSON:   Well, I've been hitting the ball very solidly the last few months.   I just haven't legally been making any putts.   It was nice to see a few fall in on the back nine. 

Q.   I heard you saying that it was a tricky odd year last year. 
RICHARD S. JOHNSON:   I hurt myself right before the first tournament in Pebble and just made a bad decision.   I thought I could still play with it and I could go kind of half‑speed and I started actually playing decent with it. 
But the longer the year went on, the worse it got, so got a couple of cortisone shots and stuff for my shoulder but never got better.   Just finally went to a doctor in Sweden that did not want to do surgery.   He fixed me in three sessions of a half an hour.   Sometimes the knife in America is not always the answer. 

Q.   And this is one of those things where presumably you have to be careful there after regardless of how good the treatment is?
RICHARD S. JOHNSON:   Well, I've been feeling great ever since.   I would think I'm 100 per cent, so I'm just trying to be a little more sensible when I do things over my head. 

Q.   And that's reassuring, because that kind of injury could be very debilitating. 
RICHARD S. JOHNSON:   Yeah, especially of late, I have so many friends that are getting injured, and it's a tough sport that way, because you go out, you can be out for a couple years and it's hard to come back. 

Q.   Good to be here playing the Flagship Event on The European Tour?
RICHARD S. JOHNSON:   Yeah, very nice, especially with weather like this. 

Q.   And we are going to see plenty more of you? 
RICHARD S. JOHNSON:   You'll see some.   The summer I'll play a bit more in America.   I'll go back to Bro Hoff in a few weeks and probably play France and maybe Germany and Ireland, or one of the two, Germany or Ireland, not quite sure which one. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT