FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 29, 2003
Richard S. Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Richard, thanks for joining us, finished tied for third this week. 
We're at the halfway point of the season.  I'm sure you would have liked to have won, but a tie for third and a great finish on the money, let's just get some opening comments from you if we could.
RICHARD JOHNSON:  I'm very pleased how I performed today, but still never really got a good feeling on the greens so I couldn't really attack the way I wanted to. 
All the chances I had on the front nine when I should have gotten it going, I just left them short, so it was a bit disappointing but I'm very happy overall how I performed.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  While you're a rookie on the PGA Tour you've won over in Europe.  Talk about the first tee jitters for you playing with David Toms. 
RICHARD JOHNSON:  David is a good guy.  We had great fun out there.  I was very impressed the way he handled himself and especially the way he putted.  He really had a tremendous, tremendous golf round going and he finished it off well and he deserved to win.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  And how does this change your goals for the rest of this season?  We've got about half the season left and this is obviously going to help you for next season to secure your card.  Talk about your goals for the remainder of the reason. 
RICHARD JOHNSON:  My goals for the beginning of the year was to win a tournament, and that's still what I'm going to try to do this year.  I'm very pleased how I performed overall over here, so it gave me a good confidence boost for the future.

Q.  You arrived in Memphis with very few people knowing who you are and I just saw you out there by autograph seekers.  Talk about the transition from going from just another player to someone that everybody covets their signature. 
RICHARD JOHNSON:  It's really nice to get recognized where you go because it's -- Tiger probably feels the opposite, that he would like to be a nobody and he just could cruise around in the streets.  It's kind of nice that you can come here and get a pat on the back once in a while.  If you have a tough time it's always nice to get a pat on the back sometimes and people know who you are.

Q.  Can you talk about what you learned from playing in the group with David and how he handled the lead. 
RICHARD JOHNSON:  I was just really impressed how he -- I mean, I thought -- I wouldn't say we played similar.  He hit it closer and he holed everything.  The way he putted was very impressive.  No fear, and he wasn't afraid to run it by.  He was still aggressive and didn't try to protect his lead, he was just trying to play his own game, and that was very impressive I thought.

Q.  What did you think after that early birdie?  Was it on 3?  Did you think, "okay, here we go," and then when it was -- you didn't play bad, but what were you thinking?
RICHARD JOHNSON:  I thought I had a pretty good start going there.  To hit the first par-5 in two and had a really good chance for eagle and then did the same thing on the fifth, hit it up close with a 3-wood.  I thought it was a very nice start, felt well.  I took care of the par-5s like I should and I was just opening to start attacking the pins but just didn't really get it close enough to get a good putt at it.  The putts I hit were very poor.

Q.  Can you talk about the 50-footer that David rolled in on 14?  At that point did you think it was his tournament?
RICHARD JOHNSON:  I know that he was -- I wouldn't say that he knew that he was going to win, but it felt -- everything was going his way really.  I mean, if you roll in a putt like that -- if you don't stand on the green and know how hard it is, it's unbelievable.  That putt is just -- it's unbelievable how tough that is.  It was an amazing putt, but the way he handled it after that was unbelievable, as well, too.

Q.  In what way?
RICHARD JOHNSON:  I mean, he was leading by 3 and went straight for the pin on the par-5 with a 3-iron.  I thought that -- I mean, the safe play would be to play something up, but he really put good swings on the ball.  He didn't try to play it on the safe side or anything.  He really managed himself well on the course and I was really impressed by it.

Q.  Had you been to Memphis before, and maybe what impressions of Memphis do you leave with?
RICHARD JOHNSON:  I've never been to Memphis before.  It was the first time here.  I think it's a great little place.  I haven't really been into the city, I've just been in this surrounding area, Germantown, and Germantown is really nice.  People have been very nice to me and FedEx and everybody who's run the tournament has done a tremendous job and everybody has been very kind.  I'm very happy with the whole tournament.  It's one of the best tournaments of the year, I think, just managed-wise.

Q.  I saw where your girlfriend's family had introduced you to the game of golf.  Do you still have the same girlfriend?
RICHARD JOHNSON:  No, it's not the same girlfriend.

Q.  Did you give her up for the golf?
RICHARD JOHNSON:  Not really.  We went separate ways a few -- like a year after that, so it was a long time ago.  I still have contact with her family a little bit when I'm home in Sweden and it's always nice to see them.  They still have my first set of clubs, I think.  They're probably going to sell them in a couple years.

Q.  What made you decide to come here?  You were doing well on the European Tour. 
RICHARD JOHNSON:  I always had -- I moved to Phoenix in the wintertime to try to get better at golf.  I always liked America, and since I have a bit of family over here I can't feel really connected to it, but I feel semi-American almost.  This is where the best courses are and the best players in the world.  This is where I want to compete.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Richard Johnson, thank you.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT