MAYAKOBA GOLF CLASSIC
February 24, 2012
Richard S. Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Good round.   You had a pretty good Back 9. 
RICHARD S. JOHNSON:   Yeah.   No, I'm playing really well.   I'm hitting the ball on line, and I hit one bad drive today, and that was on this hole here, whatever that was, 6, but got a good lie in the desert and hit it to two feet and made birdie.   But overall I'm keeping the ball in play really well and hitting it on line, so I'm hitting it close a lot.

Q.   What's your thoughts?   If you finished early, you're done.   We don't know what's going to happen this afternoon, but you're clearly in the thick of things. 
RICHARD S. JOHNSON:   Yeah.   I mean right now I don't really care, you know.   It's two rounds to go.   A lot of things can happen.   I'm just trying to make as many birdies as I can, and hopefully by Sunday afternoon we'll see what happens on the Back 9, you know, but it's a long way there yet.

Q.   How did the weather compare, the wind, you played late yesterday, compared to today?
RICHARD S. JOHNSON:   Yeah.   It blew early this morning.   6:30 a.m. it was a little hard to wake up in the beginning there because it was pumping the first few holes, whereas yesterday.

Q.   Probably still sleeping. 
RICHARD S. JOHNSON:   Yeah.   It looks like yesterday it wasn't that bad in the morning, whereas this morning it was really blowing. 
I mean it's not blowing any more now than it was at 6:30 a.m.   It was just one of those days I played well and holed out when I should have, when I hit it close.

Q.   Did you make any bombs today on the green?   Anything exciting?   Just a pretty solid round. 
RICHARD S. JOHNSON:   I chipped in once on 3.

Q.   How far?
RICHARD S. JOHNSON:   15 feet. 

Q.   So just off the green for birdie? 
RICHARD S. JOHNSON:   Just off the green.   Otherwise from that longest putt I made maybe was 12 feet.   So I hit it close a hot, so that helps.

Q.   So you're happy with your game?
RICHARD S. JOHNSON:   Yeah.   No, I've been hitting it really nice this year so far, and you know, I lost my card last year.   So you know, it made me rethink a couple aspects of my game, and you know, I played a few tournaments in Europe early, and pretty geared up to play. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT