THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 7, 2009
Richard S. Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Some of the guys who have come through earlier were talking about the condition of the course and that there's a chance to put some numbers up out there. Did you find that, as well?   
 RICHARD S. JOHNSON: Yeah, I mean, the three of us in our group, we were just firing from the first hole. Yeah, I mean, all of us just had a lot of chances today. It wasn't playing that hard out there. There was no wind, and the course is fantastic. I mean, the greens are absolutely terrific.   
 It's out there this morning, absolutely. The course is in great shape, and all three of us played great.  
  
  Q. Seems like every year out here there's somebody who hasn't been top of the leaderboard at a major in this tournament before, maybe a couple guys who get up to the top, but they have a hard time sustaining that. In a tournament like this why is that?  
 RICHARD S. JOHNSON: There's just a lot of tee shots out here that you've really got to be putting your best on, and it's just a matter of time. Everybody has their starting process somewhere, and I think you've got to come out there a couple times before you succeed. But if you look again, Craig Perks won here and there's been a few guys up here that have gone the distance.   
 I mean, it's just, the way the course is playing right now, I think it's out there for everybody. The rough is not terrible and you've just got to play well.   
  
  Q. When you have a day with scoring conditions like this and you do score, is it a sense of relief?  
 RICHARD S. JOHNSON: Absolutely. If you come out today and shoot even par, you wouldn't be that happy because most of the par-5s are reachable in two, and the course was just playing great. I mean, it was just a matter of putting yourself in the right spots and not hitting it crooked off the tee.  
  
  Q. You have a long ways to wait before you go out until the second round. What do you do until then?  
 RICHARD S. JOHNSON: Sleep. I've had a cold for the last two days, so I'm looking forward to coming into some air-conditioning here in a little bit.   
  
  Q. How many drivers did you hit out there?   
 RICHARD S. JOHNSON: I think I only hit 3-wood off the tee maybe three or four times, so I hit driver on quite a few holes. Yeah, I'd say three 3-woods maybe off the tee.  
  
  Q. Was it very different because of the rain last night?   
 RICHARD S. JOHNSON: I didn't even know it rained. I mean, no. I'd say the course is still playing fairly firm, it's just the greens are kind of receptive in some areas. How the greens are set up on this course, on 4, for instance, you have a 10-by-15-foot span to land your ball on, and if you land it there you have a four-footer for birdie. But if you miss it you're likely to make bogey. If you're in the right position on this golf course, as the pins were today, you can get a lot of short putts because they were in like little swales and hollows today so you kind of shoot them in and use the banks to kind of get them close.  
  
  Q. Were you drafting off of Scott?  
 RICHARD S. JOHNSON: Yeah, absolutely. I had a great group starting. We were all 2-under after 15 holes, and then -- 14 holes, and then Scottie eagled 15 and the other two of us birdied, so all of a sudden we were 4, 3, 3. Yeah, we just kept -- all of us played well the whole day, so it was kind of nice to have a couple guys to feed off of.  
  
  Q. Did you get mugged yesterday?  
 RICHARD S. JOHNSON: Mugged? No, not that I know of.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT