FRYS.COM OPEN
October 23, 2008
Richard S. Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER: We'd like to thank Richard Johnson for joining us here in the media center at the FRYS.com Open. Good start to the week with a little 64 this morning. Just talk about your round, what you did well, and if the conditions changed much out there during the course of the day, or the morning. 
 RICHARD JOHNSON: Pretty much just kept it in play and tried not to short-side myself on a couple of these pins. The greens are really tricky. They put the flags up against three or four slopes that you wouldn't see. It's not the edges of the greens, it's slopes. I'm trying to stay away from those and leave -- if you can get it close, fine; if not, 15 or 20 feet, see if it goes in, because again, that's tough, too, putting. The greens are tricky out there, too. My caddie had some pretty good reads today, which was nice.
 Yeah, it's just keep it out of trouble and hit the greens. That's pretty basically it. It's a tricky golf course. I guess even without rough, it's a good challenge for us. 

 Q. Did you play here last year?
 RICHARD JOHNSON: No.

 Q. So you weren't used to what it was like. Did the wind pick up as the round went out while you were out there?
 RICHARD JOHNSON: It picked up on about the third hole, and then it was pretty steady. It got maybe a hair stronger coming the last five, six holes. It was a long hole into the wind, No. 12. It picked up there. But I guess the air is so light here that it really -- crosswinds might affect it a little bit more, but into the breeze you're not fighting it too bad. It's pretty warm and it's a pretty light breeze. It's not too bad.

 Q. This has been a good year for Johnsons. Is this your chance to join the game here?
 RICHARD JOHNSON: I would hope so (laughter). It hasn't been a good year for me. I don't know, I'm fighting myself a lot out here. I got yelled at by my coach who was just saying this week, "You're on the TOUR, enjoy it." And I haven't been enjoying any of this because I've been fighting my game and struggling a bit, pushing too hard. I'm just out there having fun, and I've got three weeks of hopefully fun to have, so just out there having fun. 

 Q. Have you felt like this week there's anything special happening or that maybe your game is where you want it to be at this point? 
 RICHARD JOHNSON: No. I played Monday in the Pro-Am, had a good time; came up and hit balls for about three hours on Tuesday, went home, watched a movie; did pretty much nothing yesterday and came out and played today. So I've been hitting it good for a few weeks, putting it pretty decent for a few weeks, but I've just been working too hard, grinding and stressing myself out. So I'm trying to relax a little bit and just have a bit of fun.

 Q. So you feel like you've been putting too much pressure on yourself to get where you need to be to keep the card?
 RICHARD JOHNSON: Definitely. There's an opportunity to be taken out here, and if you don't take it, you start pushing to try and take it and then it goes kind of pear-shaped from there.

 Q. How much have you played on the European Tour?
 RICHARD JOHNSON: I played a few tournaments way back in '98. I've been stuck on the Nationwide Tour since then. 

 Q. You want to try to stay on this TOUR?
 RICHARD JOHNSON: Oh, yeah, definitely. 
 JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER: Thank you for joining us. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT