AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: RED SOX v YANKEES
October 12, 2004
Jon Lieber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  It was about a week ago when you talked about waiting 11 years for an opportunity to start in the post-season.  Having done that now, how will that help you if at all tomorrow night? 

JON LIEBER:   Well, it's just a step forward in what we're trying to accomplish here.  You know, right now we're at that middle part of the stage, I guess, with the Division -- not the Division, but the League Championship, and you know, trying to get to our goal; and that's to the World Series and win it, and it's been a great feeling so far. 

Q.  During the course of what I imagine was a difficult rehab, were there any points where you thought this wasn't going to happen or you weren't going to get back? 

JON LIEBER:   Well, yeah, there was some times, going through the rehab process, that, you know, to be able to be sitting here right now talking to you and getting ready for Game 2 tomorrow, it never even crossed my mind.  My main thing was to be able to get back to -- be able to pitch in a big league baseball game wherever that might be. Really, I look at right now as just being fortunate enough to be a part of this team and being able to help out anyway possible.

Q.  How does this Red Sox lineup compare to some of the ones you've faced?  Is this as good of a lineup as you've faced? 

JON LIEBER:   Yeah, no question, besides maybe our lineup.  You know, you really look at them from top to bottom, they have to be in the top of our league, there's no question.  Just you look at the numbers and I think everything speaks for themselves.

Q.  Joe was just telling us about how when he came out to get you in that game, you asked if you could keep the ball.  Could you just talk about your emotions at that moment, walking off the mound, the standing ovation, what was going through your head? 

JON LIEBER:   You know, it's really hard to explain.  It's something that, you know, you look forward to your whole career and to be able to, like I said, I've waited a long time to be a part of something like this.  When I came off, yeah, that's right, that's the first thing I asked him, "I'd like to hang onto ball if you wouldn't mind."    My goal each and every game out there is to work deep into the ballgames and turn it over to the bullpen.

Q.  The success you've had, especially in September and continuing now, is there anything that you feel that you've found or is it just a steady progression for you? 

JON LIEBER:   Well, I think the one thing I've really found out right now is I've definitely gotten a lot stronger than probably where I was two or three months ago into the season.  So I'm definitely feeling a lot better physically and probably more mentally than anything right now.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT