U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 11, 2014
Adam Svensson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  ADAM SVENSSON: Second hole of the day was a terrible shot and made bogey, and my coach was caddieing for me, so...   Q.  What's his name?  ADAM SVENSSON: Jimmy Stobs.  We just kind of stayed calm and knew we'd have a lot of birdie chances out there today.  Yeah, ended up making a lot coming in.  17, I hung it on the lip and went backwards.  Then 18, I kind of was a stupid bogey.  I had 310 to the bunker, and I don't really hit that far.  Went in the bunker and had an easy up-and-down and missed that.  But overall, it was a pretty good day, and I'm looking forward to tomorrow.   Q.  You played the par-5s well.  Birdied 3 out of the 4 par-5s?  ADAM SVENSSON: Yeah.   Q.  What do you attribute that to?  ADAM SVENSSON: Mostly kind of taking more club and kind of hitting it softer.  I've been working on that a little bit harder.  I'm just kind of finessing it in there instead of trying to rip a sand wedge to get to it.  I actually took my 52 out of the bag this week, and from 110 I hit a pitching wedge, so I'm working on that.   Q.  When you shoot a 69 in the first round of any kind of a qualifying type situation, what does that do for your mindset for the second day?  ADAM SVENSSON: I think a lot of people kind of try to go in there and make pars and play it safe.  My perspective is just go in there and do the same thing you're doing, play aggressive and I mean, pars are good out there especially on the other course.  So I'm just going to go out there and have some fun and see what happens.   Q.  You've obviously practiced on the Highlands.  What kind of challenge does that present to you tomorrow?  ADAM SVENSSON: You know, it's kind of like every other golf course.  You've just got to hit the fairway and play the fat parts of the green.  You've just got to hole a few putts.   Q.  When you came here, what was your goal coming into this championship?  ADAM SVENSSON: My goal is to win the U.S. Amateur.  But it's a long process.  I mean, it's seven days of a lot of golf, so I'm just looking forward to it.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT