100TH OPEN DE FRANCE
June 30, 2016
Mathieu Decottignies-Lafon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How happy are you with a start like this?  I know you didn't finish quite as you wanted but good first round.
MATHIEU DECOTTIGNIES-LAFON: Yeah, that was quite a good first round.  I played well all 18 holes.  I just missed maybe three or four shots on the whole round.  On a course like that, it's very good.  I had a lot of fun.
I tried to keep that spirit of the round.  I'm happy with the score.  Obviously even if I had a bad finish, I had a putt to go 6-under on the 17th, a 10-foot putt and just made it, but the ball didn't break.  The finish on 18, just needed a little more spin.  I had the shot to go ten yards further to the pin and that's where I wanted to go, but just didn't come into my shot.  That was a great test today.
Q. I appreciate it's only the first day, but how conscious were you of a leaderboard and the fact that you were leading your National Open?
MATHIEU DECOTTIGNIES-LAFON: It's something, of course, but I mean, I don't have any goal this week.  I've played on the Euro Pro Tour and Challenge Tour, it's just a bonus.  I have a course that I don't play every week and I just really want to enjoy every moment here.  It meant something, my heart obviously went a little bit higher.  Just try to keep doing my stuff and play good golf, enjoying the shot and commit to my golf shot.  That's my only goal for the week.
Q. Tell us a little of how you got here, because you came through qualification in some style.
MATHIEU DECOTTIGNIES-LAFON: Yeah, I played really well in the qualification.  I had the first European Tour tournament in Saint-Omer on The Challenge Tour.  And it was just the day after on the Monday, I knew the weather was really, really bad and maybe it was going to be only 18 holes.
I don't know, I found some spirit there and then I tried to bring it here.  I was really into my stuff and I played quite good.  So I will try to keep that spirit all week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT