NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: FLAMES v LIGHTNING
May 31, 2004
Nikolai Khabibulin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  What did you think of your night and getting another shutout, fifth in the Playoffs?   
 NIKOLAI KHABIBULIN:  I think it was a good team effort.  I tried to do what I can, and I think it was a good team effort.   
  Q.  So much attention on Kiprusoff, I know you don't play against him but if you were thinking the way he's been playing I need to  -- (inaudible)?   
 NIKOLAI KHABIBULIN:  I never thought that way.  I am just trying to do what I have to do and hopefully  --   
  Q.  Obviously early goal.  What was your mindset the rest of the way staying focused  --   
 NIKOLAI KHABIBULIN:  I have to stay focused no matter what.  It was nice that we got a first goal.  We didn't get any more, but I guess it was enough tonight.   
  Q.  Whenever you have lost, you have bounced back.  Something you are aware of going into the next game or address that?   
 NIKOLAI KHABIBULIN:  I never thought about it.  Just every game I am trying to improve the previous game and I guess, I had a better game than last game.   
  Q.  What is your mindset when you go into a game perhaps knowing this team absolutely has to win it, coming off a loss, and (inaudible) .  How did you approach this game tonight.   
 NIKOLAI KHABIBULIN:  Same way as any other game.  Nothing really changes.   
  Q.  Was there a difference though, did you feel different than the last few games?   
 NIKOLAI KHABIBULIN:  No, like I said, no matter what the score is, I am trying to, you know, go out there and do my best.   
  Q.  You saw the puck well tonight.  You made some terrific saves.  You had some pretty good bounces, too.  How was the ice in front of you and the help in front of you?   
 NIKOLAI KHABIBULIN:  I think we had just, like I said, we had a very good team effort.  Guys were battling hard in front of the net and there were quite a few rebounds tonight that I gave up (inaudible) that was a big plus.   
  Q.  Was it a comfortable night for you?  You got some pucks early from the outside and gave you a chance to get a feel for things, I mean, I know it's the fourth game of the Stanley Cup Final but  -- (inaudible)?   
 NIKOLAI KHABIBULIN:  It's always nice, I guess to have a feel for the puck early in the game.  But regardless of that, no matter what happens I have to stay focused and the shot against is not something I can control.  I still have to stay focused no matter what.   
  Q.  You have got to try to win back to back, something no team has done in this series.  What is it going to take effort-wise to do that?   
 NIKOLAI KHABIBULIN:  It's going to take a team effort.  No one player can do the job by himself.  We have to do the same kind of effort that we did tonight.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT