U.S. OPEN
September 4, 2009
Daniela Hantuchova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 D. HANTUCHOVA/V. King
  6-2, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. It's pretty good play. How do you feel now?  
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: Oh, I feel great. I thought it was a very good match, was focused from the start to end. Didn't make very many unforced errors and felt good out there.  
  
  Q. You mixup different kind of shots today. Is that what you are trying to do?  
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: Well, that was just a part of my tactics. I tried to move her around, stay aggressive all the time. You know, not to go for crazy shots, which I'm very proud of.   
 Yeah, I been mixing it up. It's always kind of my play anyway.   
  
  Q. You have switched your outfits from Nike to adidas. When did you change that outfit?  
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: Just before this tournament. This is my first tournament playing with adidas. I'm excited. It's a brand that I always admired for many, many years. It feels very refreshing, the stuff, and outfits they're doing is very feminine and very glamorous.   
 So I'm really proud to be part of them now.  
  
  Q. And also shoes?  
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: Everything. The shoes obviously are the key, because as an athlete it's important to have the right shoe. You know, they have great stuff. Yeah, like I say, I'm very, very happy.  
  
  Q. Could you talk about your jacket?  
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: Yeah, it's pretty cool. Yeah, yeah, I love the color and it's a nice shape. Yeah, I think it's great idea. I feel very good in it. I have to say I'm so excited to be on the court playing in adidas, because it's very refreshing, like I said, and it feels very good.   
  It's very, very comfortable to wear, as well.   
  Q. As can you look ahead to the next opponent?  
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: Yeah, again, I'm just taking it one match at a time, trying to, you know, focus again on the right stuff. I'm really looking forward to it. I have nothing to lose. I had a great tournament so far.  
 So, yeah, I'm really excited at the moment.   
  
  Q. Are you practicing with adidas player development?   
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: Yes, also that's part of the deal, which I'm very, very excited, obviously. The names they've got on there, it's pretty overwhelming. So, you know, just having that kind of support behind me I think definitely gives me so much more confidence.   
 Just the advantage that I can use them any time I need to and use the knowledge that those guys have. I mean, it's just pretty amazing, so I'm very proud to be part of that team, as well.  
  
  Q. You're working with Cahill and Sven, Gil? DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: Yeah, all those guys. You know, when you just talk to somebody like that that's -- he's been coaching Andre for many years. He's been a great player, as well. It's amazing, and I'm very, very proud to have this opportunity.  
  
  Q. Do you go to Las Vegas?   
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: Well, I just -- you know, the contract and everything just happened before this tournament, so I obviously I didn't have time to go there.   
 But, yeah, I'm really looking forward to go there, as well.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT