WIMBLEDON
June 29, 2009
Daniela Hantuchova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. WILLIAMS/D. Hantuchova
  6-3, 6-1 
   
  Q. How do you feel you played today?   
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: Oh, I mean, it was tough. The ball was coming obviously very, very fast back to my side, and I thought she played an unbelievable match. She was serving huge and returning unbelievable.   
 I mean, out of all the matches I've played against her, I think this was one of her best performances.  
  
  Q. Is she playing well enough do you think to win the tournament?  
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: I mean, it's tough to say obviously because every match is different, but if she keeps playing like she did today, I think she's got a very, very good chance. Again, she just showed how good she is on grass especially.  
  
  Q. Were you pleased with the way you were playing, or did you not -- do you feel like you didn't have a chance to play your game because she was controlling the points?  
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: In the first set I felt like I had some chances, and obviously -- I thought I didn't start badly. I didn't think I was doing too many things wrong. But she always had a better answer to everything.   
 Basically that was the key. Then obviously I felt more pressure, and I felt like I had to do something extra, and that's when the mistakes came.   
  
  Q. Are you pleased with making it to the fourth round?  
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: Oh, yeah, definitely. I think I had a great tournament, considering how I felt before the tournament. I never thought I would make it all the way to the second week. Obviously very pleased, and yeah, today was a tough match, but overall I think it was a very good tournament for me.  
  
  Q. Sorry, I'm not familiar with -- you referred to how you were feeling.   
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: I was sick.  
  
  Q. Oh, illness?  
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: Yeah.  
  
  Q. There was that stretch there from late in the first set to early in the second where she won a long stretch of points in a row. Is that something that then gets into your mind when you're playing, that you realize --  
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: I didn't really realize that, no. I was playing it one point at a time, so I didn't really think of the score or anything. But obviously it was very tough for me.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT