PILOT PEN TENNIS PRESENTED BY SCHICK
August 21, 2008
Daniela Hantuchova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  A. CORNET/D. Hantuchova 
3-6, 6-4, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. You looked a little frustrated at the end. What happened in the third set?
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: Well, I thought I gave it all. I was fighting till the end. I think I came well coming back to being 4-1 down. It was just very close. 
 Actually I felt like I had the match in the second set. It was 3-All. I had those breakpoints. Just got a little bit too tight. Didn't really go for it. Until then I felt like I was playing really well. Finally I was going for my shots and doing the right stuff. 
 So, yeah, really felt like I had the match. Then just turned around on a few points. Yeah, at the end, again, could have gone either way like yesterday. Sometimes in tennis, just a few points decides.

 Q. Did the stoppage bother you at all when she got her leg bandaged?
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: I mean, after all these years, you're used to it. There are so many players doing it. There's nothing really you can do about it. 

 Q. In the third set you were serving 4-5, Love-30. Had a serve that you thought was in, but were out of challenges. Did you think it was in?
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: I mean, I saw the mark. The umpire actually saw the mark, too. She admitted it was in. Then she told me it was just too late to make a decision, which I never heard about before. That was kind of strange, I mean, especially when she was sitting right there. So I don't understand why she didn't overrule that. 

 Q. US Open coming up. How do you feel overall? 
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: Yeah, actually good. I mean, it was a very important week for me, this one. I felt like, especially today, I found my game where I actually wanted to be. You know, yesterday proving myself again that I can fight and get through tough matches. Yesterday I think I played two and a half hours. Today again. Also physically I felt fine. I don't think I could ask for better week before the US Open. 

 Q. So the back-to-back long matches didn't bother you?
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: Well, I mean, especially now in the doubles, I was already starting to feel it a little bit, and obviously a little bit more rest would have helped. I didn't really want to wake up this morning. But having said that, like I said, after the injury, I'm just so happy to be out there on the court again, you know, just being able to play tennis. 

 Q. You have a possible rematch with Cornet in the third round of the US Open. Anything you learned today that will help you?
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: Well, like I said, definitely I feel like I had the match in my hands today. So maybe if I just do a few more things better. I think it was good to play her before so I know where she's at at this point. We'll see. 
 I mean, I played her at the Australian Open, in the last Grand Slam there, and felt pretty confident. But, you know, still I have to get there. Still there are a few more matches to play before that, so I'm just going to focus on that. Once I get to play her, obviously I will try to do things a little bit different. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT