AEGON CLASSIC
June 12, 2014
Daniela Hantuchova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 K. DATE‑KRUMM/D. Hantuchova
  6‑4, 6‑0 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Did Kimi surprise you there today?   
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:   Well, she did actually.   I did not expect her to play this well.   I know she can play well on grass, but I think today she played one of her best matches.  
   
 Q.   How are you feeling about your couple of matches here?   
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:   No, I feel good.   Going into the match, I felt very confident.   I thought, you know, I had those chances early in the beginning of the first set to maybe break her.  
But after that, she just didn't really give me a chance.   I tried everything, and I mean, she was hitting lines, moving well, coming to the net, serving unbelievably well.  
I thought I was always going to have chances on her serve, but today just everything went her way.  
   
 Q.   Is it even possible she could go on and win this tournament?   
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:   Well, if she plays like this, for sure.   
   
 Q.   That second set, did you get down on yourself a little bit?  
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:   No, I tried, like I said, for the whole match.   I tried to find a way how to start winning rallies, but obviously nothing was working and everything was going her way.  
But it's one of the matches where I don't really feel as bad about it, because I just got outplayed by her.   Just have to give her all the credit.  
   
 Q.   What does she do well?   She shortens rallies and comes forward unexpectedly.   That takes way your rhythm, right?  
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:   And especially because of her slices the ball stays so down, so I feel like I can't really dictate.   I'm always on the back foot.   Also, she had very good lines today, so I never got really a chance to get into my game.  
   
 Q.   I imagine it's never pleasant to lost a title, but still it's matches you need on grass at this stage, which is the most important.   
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:   Yeah, especially in my first match I played better than in any of my matches last year.   That's a good sign.  
Sometimes even though you want to defend your title, you're going to have opponent like I had today, and I just have to learn from it ‑ she definitely gave me a lesson ‑ and be ready for next week.   
   
 Q.   Where will you play next week?   
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:   Eastbourne.   
   
 Q.   How do you feel your grass‑court game is shaping up now?  
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:   Yeah, I love it.   I feel very good physically.   It's my favorite time of the year.   Hopefully a lot of matches ahead of me.   
   
 Q.   I need to is ask you an obligatory question about the World Cup.   Will you be following it?   
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:   Of course.   Actually this morning we decided with Peter since Sweden and Slovakia is not in it then we're going to go for Italy.  
Sorry, sorry, for England.   I can't believe I just said that.   (Laughing.)   No, no, we're rooting for England from this morning.   
Everybody is going to love us here and we're not going to get into trouble.   So definitely we are watching on ‑‑ when is it?   
   
 Q.   Saturday.   
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:   Saturday.  
   
 Q.   Against Italy.   
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:   Yeah, yeah, yeah.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT