MEDIBANK INTERNATIONAL
January 7, 2008
Daniela Hantuchova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  Great match. 
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Yeah.  Definitely for a first match of the year I couldn't ask for a better start.  I was just very proud the way I was fighting.  It was not easy.  The conditions were very tough, and I thought Dinara was playing very well.  It was a tough match. 

 Q.  Tough draw. 
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  That's for me normal.  I'm used to it now.  Any time I have a chance to get a tough draw I get it. 

 Q.  It's been five years now out of the top 10.  Back in there now.  What's been the key to your turnaround? 
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  I guess maturing a little bit and getting the experiences and knowing what to do in important times.  Also you know, enjoying everything more.  Not being so hard on myself.  Understanding that it's okay not to be perfect all the time. 

 Q.  What sort of goals have you set for yourself for 2008, and more immediately this summer. 
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  No pressure.  Same like last year.  Just go out there and do my best and whatever happens it's fine. 

 Q.  Are you more confident in getting out of tough matches given your improved ranking and confidence? 
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Yeah, it definitely gave me a lot of confidence.  Like I say, every week we have to be ready right from the first round and do your best fight all the time. 
 Yeah, I mean, I had a great year, and hopefully it'll be great to continue that way this year. 

 Q.  Did you feel like you've down your Australian Open preparation in one match? 
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  I think so.  I think I faced everything possibly that couldn't prepare me any better for the Open. 
 So, yeah, I mean, tough draw, but at the same time it was great to have opponent like Dinara to play against.  Definitely it was a good preparation. 

 Q.  Are there areas of your game that you tinker with a lot.  Do you change anything about your game at all? 
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Obviously there are always things to be improved and worked on, but at the same time I don't think I have to change too much.  If I can just be able to be more consistent and not to have too much ups and downs.  Just being solid. 
 Yeah, of course I want to improve my serve and volley and come into the net more, but these are things that don't happen overnight.  I just to have to keep working on them and slowly put it into my game. 

 Q.  What is about tennis that you just couldn't live without? 
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  I guess it's the adrenaline.  You know, when you have a tough match like today, and, I don't know, it's 5 4 in the third set and you're serving for it and you know, the -- all the attention is on you.  I guess that you don't find anywhere else. 
 Like no matter what you do outside the court.  You can ask anybody that's been injured or out of the game.  That's what that's they miss the most.  I just love it to have to find answers for all the questions that there are during the match and being able to figure out how to win. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT