WIMBLEDON
July 2, 2007
Daniela Hantuchova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions.   
  
  Q.  When you went over when Serena was down on the ground, what did you think was wrong with her?   
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  I asked the umpire and he told me she was cramping.  That's what was going on.   
  
  Q.  How difficult did you keep your concentration on Serena's cramp?   
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Yeah, it's tough.  You never want something like this to happen.  It's so hard to play against somebody that you know is struggling, and you kind of feel sorry.  At the same time you have to be tough and still play your game.   
 Yeah, mentally it was very, very tough plus having to deal with the rain so, yeah, the conditions were difficult.   
  
  Q.  When it started to rain, what went through your mind?   
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Well, there were a couple of rain breaks, so I don't know which one you mean.   
  
  Q.  The longer one.   
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Yeah, definitely I don't think it helped me.  I mean, when somebody's cramping, usually it's because you're getting tired.  She had a couple of hours to rest.  After that I think, you know, she played very well.   
 So, yeah, this time didn't help me.   
  
  Q.  As the third set went on, what did you think of her injury situation?   
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Well, in the third set, I don't think there was anything wrong at all.  I think she was moving very well.  I don't think there can be too much wrong when you serve 120 miles an hour.  It was definitely a tough set but I still felt like I had my chances, but I didn't take them.   
  
  Q.  You don't think you had any advantages in the third set?   
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  In the third set, I don't think so at all.  I think third set was very even.  I would say that if, you know, maybe there was no rain, that would have been advantage for me.  But in the third set, there was nothing like that.   
  
  Q.  How will you remember this match?   
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Uhm, very exciting.  I was really enjoying it.  The crowd was great.  It's always to be great on the Centre Court.  I think I can take a lot of positives from the match.  I feel like I can play against anyone and definitely I felt like I had my chances today, I just didn't take them.  But, you know, I can learn from that and be better next time.   
  
  Q.  What about the opportunity that you had there?  What was going through your mind when you saw she was clearly not herself?   
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Well, I was not thinking about anything at all.  I was just, you know, waiting what was going to happen and just try to still be focused and think about what I have to do in my game to win.   
  
  Q.  Serena said when you hit the dropshot she got fired up.  Do you have any thoughts or comments about that?   
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  I don't know what dropshot you mean because I hit a couple.   
  
  Q.  I think the first one after her injury.   
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  I don't remember.  Was it in the third set?   
  
  Q.  I believe so.   
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Well, I don't think there was anything wrong with me hitting the dropshot.  I do it all the time.  Yeah, I mean, I do hit a lot of dropshots.  That's part of my game.   
  
  Q.  She said she would do the same thing.   
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Yeah, I mean, a lot of players do hit dropshots, so.   
  
  Q.  In terms of strategy, did you have to think about any strategy based on her condition?   
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  No.  I just tried to stay focused on my game and not think too much what was going on on the other side, just try to do the right things.   
  
  Q.  Have you had this kind of situation in your career before, somebody injured, you have to deal with it?   
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  A couple times there were some opponents that had some kind of injury.  As I said, it's tough because you feel sorry for them because you know what they have to go through.  But at the same time you still have to be focused on what you have to do on the court.   
  
  Q.  What advice did you get from your coach in terms of how to play Serena with her injury?   
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Just the same as at the start of the match:  to play my game and not to think about what was going on on the other side.   
  
  Q.  What were you thinking when you walked to her?   
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  I did really feel sorry because it didn't look very, very nice.  She really looked like she was struggling a lot.  You know, there was nothing much I could have done, so just kind of waited what was going to happen.   
  
  Q.  Was this a match that Serena won or that you lost?   
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Tough to say.  I think I lost it.  I think I had my chances.  Maybe if I would have kept the ball in play a little longer, had been a little more patient, that could have been different.   
 I think the third set, there were couple points here and there that decided it.  Like I said, I definitely feel like I had my chances; just didn't take them today.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT