WIMBLEDON
June 29, 2007
Daniela Hantuchova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  So another three-set win, sort of dramatic, huh? 
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Yeah. 

 Q.  You live for those? 
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  I know, yeah, I do enjoy it when it gets tight.  The physical part comes to play a role in the match.  Again today I proved that indeed I was a bit stronger.  Yeah, I was enjoying the battle, having to fight for every point, and I'm really pleased to be in the fourth round. 

 Q.  Do you assume when you play some of the better players that the matches are going to go to three sets? 
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Yeah, I'm always prepared to be on the court as long as it takes to get a win, and I think the more I'm on the court, the better for me because I think physically I'm fit, and yeah, I don't care if it's 40 minutes or three hours. 

 Q.  And you've won so many that nerves probably are no longer a factor for the most part, right? 
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Yeah, not at all, I think.  Winning these type of matches gives me so much confidence, and I think I've done that really well these past few months.  I feel like, you know, when it gets tight, I know what to do now.  Yeah, definitely the nerves don't play a role anymore. 

 Q.  Well, you have a long history with Serena and that's obviously going to be a step up from today, huh?  Can you just talk about that? 
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Yeah, definitely.  I think I need to step up my game to beat her, but I'm looking forward to the match.  I think I've got a good chance, and yeah, let's see what happens. 

 Q.  What are the keys against her for you? 
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  I think just trying to play my game, doing the right things like I've been doing the last few weeks here on grass.  I'm starting to feel very good on it.  Let's hope that I play the right way.  Yeah, I just can't wait to be on the court again. 

 Q.  Do you need to serve very well against her assuming that she's probably going to be tough to break? 
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Yeah, definitely.  I mean, she likes to step in on the second serves and go for it, so yeah, I have to make sure -- everything has to be right there in my game to be able to play well against her.  But I think it's against any of the top players; you have to be really there and to fight for every point, and no matter how hard it gets, I'll be prepared to be there. 

 Q.  You're probably not surprised by how well she's played this year outside of a couple tournaments because you've been around the game so long? 
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Not at all.  I think when she's at her best, I think definitely she's -- I don't know if at the moment, but she was the best player around.  Even though she was not playing enough, mentally she's always there.  She's got a champion quality that no matter how bad she plays, she's always there, and she's never going to give up.  All the credits to her for that.  I really admire that. 

 Q.  Would you say she's the best player in the game when she's playing her best, or do you think Justine is a little bit better than her? 
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  It's a very close call.  I would say at the moment Justine is the best player. 

 Q.  So there's going to be no bump, no Serena slamming into you on the changeovers this time? 
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  I hope not (laughing). 

 Q.  So you're going to walk around her? 
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  I don't know, I haven't really thought about that (smiling). 

 Q.  One question on the US Open Series.  Do you think it's having an impact in tennis, and if so, how? 
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  The US Open Series? 

 Q.  Yeah, the package of tournaments going into the US Open. 
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Well, I think it's a great package to have.  I think it forces a lot of players to play the summer tournaments.  I think it's great for the fans so they can follow us from the first tournament of the summer until the US Open, and I think it's very exciting.  And personally I like it a lot, and I'm looking forward to this year. 

 Q.  Do you think fans are actually following the series? 
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  I don't know, I hope. 

 Q.  Do they talk to you about it when you're in the States? 
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  You know, usually I don't really talk to them about it, so it's hard to say. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT