PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 14, 2007
Daniela Hantuchova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Daniela, please.   
  
  Q.  Things looked easy that first set.  What happened after that?   
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  I'm sorry?   
  
  Q.  Things looked easy that first set.  What happened afterwards?   
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Oh, well, I mean with her, it's never easy.  She's a great fighter and I was expecting that coming to the match, so I knew it was gonna be a battle, which I think the score is proving.   
 And, yeah, I'm just really glad how I pulled it out at the end.   
  
  Q.  You live for those three-set matches, huh?   
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  I know.  I love it.  Yeah, I mean, I guess the more time I spend on the court, the better for me.  I always feel like I've got the physical advantage with the players that I can last a little longer, maybe, than they can, and that gives me a lot of confidence.  That sometimes, you know, even if things are not going my way, I just know that I can still turn it around.   
  
  Q.  'Cause you served more in the third set there, too?   
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  But you didn't seem to go too down mentally.   
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  No, I mean, I just try to play one point at a time and not think too much about the score or what was happening, just try to focus on trying to do the right things.   
  
  Q.  The experience must have played a factor, especially in the tiebreaker?  She's up 4-3, then you played two very good points to close it out.   
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  I didn't know it was 5-3.  I was I was just trying to think about my game and not about the score at all.   
  
  Q.  It was pretty easier said than done, huh?   
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Yes, exactly.  So I was really pleased that I was able to do that.   
  
  Q.  You don't seem too fazed.  I know yesterday you got broken early twice, that didn't faze you, then when you couldn't serve out the match on the third, it didn't bother you.  Is that just part of the maturity or the whole experience?   
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Yeah, I think I'm understanding much better, if something goes wrong, it's part of the game, and it's okay, not to be perfect all the time.  And, you know, just to try to figure out how to turn things around in my way and always try to stay positive.   
  
  Q.  It appeared that when the coach was telling you something you were not agreeing with him or something.  Can you explain what was that on court?   
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  No, I agree with everything he said.  I just needed maybe a little, how do you say it?  I was, you know, a little tense, so I wanted to make sure he tells me everything that I needed to.   
 I didn't argue with him or anything.  I just was asking a lot of questions to make sure that he covers everything I needed to know.   
  
  Q.  So what did he tell you, Daniela?   
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Basically just to, you know, try to stay in the points and not to rush.  Sometimes when I -- 'cause I had so many opportunities on her serve, and a lot of the times I was 30-Love up and haven't used the chances.  So just not to try to -- not to rush and just try to stay calm and play my game.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about your next round against Na Li.   
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Yeah, you know, exciting to be in the semifinals.  It's gonna be a great match.  She's a great player, great fighter, so it's going to be again, very, very difficult match.  But I'm looking forward to it and I'm gonna give it my best.   
  
  Q.  Both three-setters when you played her.   
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  No, I know, I mean, I know it's gonna be tough so I have to be ready,   
  
  Q.  Physically, Daniela, is your conditioning as good as it's ever been?   
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  I think so.  Definitely, I think getting through matches like this, it's proving it, and I'm very, very happy about that.  I've got to take off tomorrow, though, because I feel like I need it by now.  But, yeah, I feel great and that gives me a lot of confidence.   
  
  Q.  How tiring was tonight's match?   
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  A lot.  I mean, I think we both started to feel it in the maybe middle of the third set because we had long rallies and, you know, also the match yesterday with Martina was not easy.  I was running from one side to another, but it's a great feeling to be tired like that.   
  
  Q.  How does it change with your racket, your playing.   
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Definitely I feel like I'm hitting the ball very well, and I'm very pleased with my choice.   
  
  Q.  You expressed to your coach between the first and the second and the third set that you lost your rhythm on your forehand, I believe.   
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Yep.   
  
  Q.  And you seemed to get it back on the third set.  What clicked inside of you to just get it back, because you were controlling the match in the first set with that shot?   
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Yeah, he just told me few things to fix it, which to have him on the side really helps and makes a difference.  Because sometimes when you're playing, you don't really realize what you're doing.  So, you know, he just told me to fix a few little things, and then it seemed to start work again.   
  
  Q.  One thing.  Is that Adidas?   
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Nike, for sure.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT