WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2006
Daniela Hantuchova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 Q.  Can we have your thoughts on playing Justine in the next round, please. 
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  You know, I'm just really, really happy to be in the second week.  Definitely a match that I really look forward to, to play. 
 You know, she's a great champion.  I have a lot of respect for the way she plays.  So it's going to be an exciting match for me, and I can't wait to be out there again. 

 Q.  Do you think grass might be your best surface, your best chance against her? 
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Well, with a player like that, it, I mean, doesn't really matter what surface you play her on because, I mean, she's one of the toughest player at the moment to beat. 
 But I definitely feel like grass suits my game, as well, and I feel like probably if I could pick a surface, it would be grass to play her on. 
 But, as I said, with a player like that, doesn't really matter. 

 Q.  You don't play her for four years.  Do you think there is some change in your games? 
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Well, I think definitely there's been some changes in her game.  Since four years she won a couple of Grand Slams. 
 Obviously, it's going to be a different match.  But at the same time, I feel like I improved, too.  I feel like if I keep playing like I did last few matches here and do the right things, that I've got good chances. 

 Q.  How would you describe your first week?  Everything is okay? 
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Yeah, it's been great.  I mean, it's been quite busy, especially with the rain delay the first few days, and then having to play the late evenings, waiting here every day.  It's been kind of difficult.  And especially after yesterday's long match, to come back here again today and play another one was quite tough. 
 But, uhm, now I've got two days to rest, which is great.  Looking forward for the next week. 

 Q.  What are you going to do, some shopping? 
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Maybe, yeah.  But, uhm, definitely I'm gonna practice and just take it a little easier.  Maybe rest a little bit. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT