US OPEN
September 2, 2005
Daniela Hantuchova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Daniela.  
 
 
Q.  Must be very difficult, knowing how well you're hitting the ball right now, to run into Venus Williams in the third round of a Grand Slam. 
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Yeah, definitely.  I mean, it was really frustrating because I felt like coming to this tournament I was really playing well.  Even today I felt like I had my chances, especially at that 3-all game.  Felt like if I would have won that, maybe would have been a different story.  But I got to give her all the credit for the way she served.  When she got up, she really stepped up in her game, came up with some big shots.  You know, I can't do anything about the draw.  I can't change it now.  But definitely was a tough one for me.  
 
Q.  When she double-faulted, you were in a pretty good position to assert yourself.  What happened in the next game?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Yeah, definitely that was the game I think of the match.  I went for that not-a-very-smart dropshot.  I had a (dry?) volley that I missed by inches.  There were a few points that for sure I should have won.  Yeah, maybe just being a little more patient would have changed it.  But it's over now.  
 
Q.  Is all this a result of the patience that Nigel has shown you in bringing you back to this level?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Yes, definitely.  I felt like from the base of the baseline I could have played with her without any problems.  Maybe making those few more shots would have made the difference by being more patient and not always trying to come up with something, you know, special.  
 
Q.  Why is Nigel a good coach for you?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  I guess, you know, he understands me very well.  He knows what I want to achieve.  He's been in the game for a long time.  You know, he likes to work hard, I like to work hard.  We both are trying to work on the same goals.  
 
Q.  Could you look back on this year's Grand Slam results.  Are you satisfied?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Yeah, it's been actually the same:  third round every single time.  Lost to Dementieva in Australia, Kim Clijsters in Roland Garros, Venus Williams Wimbledon, and here again Venus.  I felt like it was very solid.  Had a couple of really, really good results, especially here.  I felt like my second match was really the way I want to play.  Yeah, it was just really a little bit unfortunate with the draws I had.  
 
Q.  Is there anyplace where Venus Williams can be attacked on the court right now the way she's playing?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Oh, it's very tough because she's good at picking her game up when she needs to.  Definitely I think she has improved and she's also trying to be more patient and not trying to go for too many winners.  Well, definitely I think the way to play her is to make sure that you hold your serves and you serve really well because, you know, she always can come up with some unbelievable on her serve.  It's always important to keep serving well.  
 
Q.  You played doubles, too.  Could you tell your impression about Ai Sugiyama?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  She's such a great player.  I mean, we've been really good friends for a couple of years.  I just really enjoy playing with her.  She's a great competitor.  She never gives up.  We just have so much fun playing together.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT