PILOT PEN TENNIS
August 25, 2005
Daniela Hantuchova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  You had a lot of chances against her.  It was just a couple of points here and there, could have gone into a third set. 
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: Yeah, definitely, I felt like I mean, in the first set she came out playing unbelievable.  I don't think there was much I could have done about that.  But then yeah, I was really disappointed the way I didn't take those chances in the second set, especially being 3-Love up and then that 3-1 game 40-15 on my serve and yes, especially against players like Lindsay I just can't afford not to take those chances.  Yeah, I felt like I had to -- a lot of points where if I would have won those, it would have made a difference and, you know, who knows what would happen in the third set.  
 
Q.  Were you consciously trying to make her run around a little bit more in the second set make her chase some balls.  Was that sort of were you thinking about that at all?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: Definitely, that's the way to play her because as soon as she has time on the ball there's not much she's going to do wrong, so I think everyone knows that's the way to play Lindsay because she's such a great ball striker and if it's in her hitting zone, she's going to hit winner almost every single time.  
 
Q.  What do you mean you needed to take more chances, what could you have done more differently?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: Maybe made her play a little more.  It's hard to think of it right now what I should have done differently.  Just not to miss those points and win them.  There are many different ways of how I could have done that, but maybe sometimes being more patient, other times maybe trying to be more aggressive. 
 
Q.  When was the last time you played her?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: I think it was Hopman Cup two years ago. 
 
Q.  Do you notice a difference in her game, still the same player?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: Especially the way she played the first set, I don't think there was anything wrong with her game at all.  She was serving unbelievable, returning even better, so no, it's still the same Lindsay.  
 
Q.  Thoughts going into the Open?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: I feel great.  I gained a lot of confidence throughout this summer.  I had a really, really good couple of tournaments, so yeah, I am just really excited to go there and see what happens there.  
 
Q.  Was it hard, that first set went by so quickly, was it hard to get into a groove for yourself?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: As I said, I don't think there was much I could have done with the first set.  I think it was important that I just try to step up a little bit and be more aggressive in the first couple of games in the second set to take the momentum away from her.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT