PILOT PEN TENNIS
August 26, 2004
Daniela Hantuchova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  First question for Daniela, please. 


Q.  Could you just talk a little bit about her serve.  She seemed to have really good control of her serve today. 

DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Yeah, I mean, I didn't break her once in the whole match.  You know, I can't expect to win when I can't break her.  On the other side, she was really serving well and she didn't give me too man chances on her serve.  I thought she was hitting the ball really well and she deserves to be in the semis. 

Q.  How do you think you played today? 

DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  I didn't play my best.  But, I mean, I tried hard.  I had some chances, especially in the first set, you know, to come back.  I had some breakpoints in the middle of the first set.  But I always knew that she was going to be a tough, tough player to play.  You know, she's got a game that when she doesn't miss, it's really hard to do something about it.  Yeah, I have to give her the credit for the way she played today. 

Q.  You played a couple of tough matches already.  Did you feel the effects of that a little today?  Were you worn out?

DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Not at all.  I think that actually helped me, you know, to spend as much time as I could on the court.  I think it was a great preparation for me before the US Open.  Now I'm just really looking forward for the Grand Slam. 

Q.  You reached No. 5 in the spring 2003.  Do you feel like you're rebuilding your game in a way?  If so, how are you doing that with your coach?

DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Yeah, definitely I feel like I'm on the right way back.  I just have to keep going.  You know, having more tournaments like this where I have to go through really some difficult situations will only help me.  I think I'm heading in the right direction.  I just have to believe in myself now, you know, and start to win some big matches. 

Q.  How do you feel you might do in the US Open coming off this loss? 

DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Yeah, I mean, I will have few more days to practice, to get used to the courts in New York.  You know, Grand Slam, it's always so exciting and everyone wants to do well.  So right from the first round, you have to make sure you are ready for every opponent.  You know, my draw is quite tough.  If I get through the first few matches, that will mean a lot to me because there are some tough players in my half.  But, you know, I'm just going to try to do my best in every single match.  How far I get, we see. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT