PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 12, 2004
Daniela Hantuchova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  
 
 
Q.  You were struggling the whole match, yet you were close to winning.  Explain what happened today. 
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  I mean, it's just a tennis match.  I mean, I'm proud that I give everything I had.  And, yes, I was not playing my best today.  But I was pleased with myself that I kept fighting till the end.  It almost paid off.  There were a couple of points that turned the match around in the tiebreak in the third set.  That made the difference.  I think Marissa played a good match.  You know, I just kept fighting, and it was a very close match today.  
 
Q.  Were you okay out there?  You had the trainer. 
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Yeah, I had some stomach problems.  I don't know.  I think maybe I drunk a little too much or haven't eaten the right thing before the match.  I was, you know, very hot out there.  I had some problems at the end of the second set.  But, you know, I was really glad that I got through that one.  Then, you know, I just kept fighting until the end.  
 
Q.  Although it's just a tennis match, how are you feeling after this?  How are you taking it?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Just like a tennis match.  I mean, there are still many things I have to work on.  I just have to move on and forget about it as soon as I can and look forward for the next tournament. 
 
Q.  It appeared to be a sloppy match on your part. 
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  I wouldn't say sloppy match.  I haven't played for a couple of weeks.  It's always hard, you know, to come back and play your first match, especially against somebody that has already played pretty much here before.  So I was expecting a tough match, and it was.  You know, I didn't play as well as I did in the practice, but still I think it was a good match.  
 
Q.  How are things going being back with Nigel?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  I think it's great.  You know, I think it was good for both us to take a little bit of break, but I'm excited to be working with him again and looking forward for our work together in the future.  And hopefully we will get -- we both will get where we want to be.  
 
Q.  You rang him, didn't you?  You went to Australia with somebody else. 
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Yes, I went to Australia with Harold Solomon, who is also a very experienced guy.  It just sort of didn't work the way I wanted to.  And I felt like -- I took a little bit of a break after tournament in Paris, thought about things.  I felt like, you know, last year was a very tough one for me, but, you know, I still thought that I have a great team around me, and I didn't want to change anything about it.  I wanted to get back with the people I worked with.  
 
Q.  You had a good 2002, not a good 2003.  Is this a very important year to show which player you are?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Yeah, definitely I'm looking forward for this year.  Last year was a very tough one.  But I think I have learned a lot, and at the end the make me a lot stronger, not only as a player but as a person, too.  Showed me that there are many more important things in life than tennis.  You know, it showed me that this is really what I want to do, even though the times were very tough for me.  But, you know, I still love playing tennis, and I'm really glad to be here.  
 
Q.  So how do you dedicate your focus to this year?  What are you doing special?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  I just have to keep working hard, as I always did.  And now I think it's just a matter of playing as much as I can.  You know, I'm really glad that I'm healthy and not having any injuries at the moment.  So I just have to, you know, keep working hard and try to do my best in the matches, and hopefully the results will come. 
 
Q.  Was it a question of being a bit rusty out there? 
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  I haven't played for a couple of weeks.  It's always tough, you know, to get back, especially when you lay against somebody that has already played a few matches.  I still felt like I had a great week of preparation here, felt like I was hitting the ball well in the practice.  Just didn't come out as well as I wanted to during the match. 
 
Q.  You're playing doubles here?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Yes, today. 
 
Q.  With?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  With Barbara Schett. 
 
Q.  Many players when they come to a site where they've had great success as you did here a couple years ago feel all kinds of positive vibrations.  Did you feel those?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Definitely I feel something very special about this place anytime I come here.  As I said, I had a really wonderful week here so far.  It's just a shame I lost first round.  But as I said, that's tennis.  You just have to deal with it and move on.  But for sure there is something very special about it, this place.  I love being here and I always have a great time here.  
 
Q.  Did you feel there was a turning point in the tiebreaker?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  I sort of feel like the point I had for 3-All, the easy backhand, I was going to go for an angle, I missed.  I think that was one of the key points.  But otherwise, you know, I was still all the time down in the breaker.  So I was sort of always behind, just trying to find my way to get back.  But, you know, I kept fighting until the last point.  And I thought she played a good tiebreak in the third set.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT