WIMBLEDON
June 25, 2003
Daniela Hantuchova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Good evening.  Daniela Hantuchova.  Who would like to ask the first question?  
 
 
Q.  Obviously very disappointing.  Where did you feel it went wrong?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  I just didn't take my chances.  I was really happy the way I played the first set.  I felt like I was hitting the ball great, and then suddenly it just turned around.  You know, she started to play well.  She saw she had a chance.  You know, I just didn't take the chances I had in the third set, especially being 5-2 up.  It's very disappointing, but I have to move on and just learn from the things I haven't done right.  
 
Q.  Have you ever played a match that long before?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  No.  That's the longest one, I think, yeah. 
 
Q.  How did you feel?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  I felt great.  I mean, physically I didn't have any problems at all.  You know, a match this long, similar one I had also at the French Open, so it's very disappointing to have two in a row like this because in both matches in the first set I started great and I had my chances.  It's just very frustrating to lose so early here.  
 
Q.  You got quite emotional out there, as well. 
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Yeah, I mean, this tournament means a lot to me and I really wanted to do well.  So that's it.  
 
Q.  At one point you were speaking in Slovakian.  Seems you were aiming it towards someone in the crowd or in your area.  Anyone in particular?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  No.  I was just talking to myself.  Maybe I was looking at them, but talking to myself and trying to, you know, fight as much as I could and just to do anything I could to win this match.  
 
Q.  After a lot of recent publicity, people will suggest your stamina might have been a problem today.  You're saying you don't think that's the case?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Not at all.  I mean, I just played one of the longest matches I ever played, and physically I felt like I could have gone for another two hours.  It's just I think mental, that the mental side is the one I have to really work hard on at the moment, because I've been in this situation a couple times before and I didn't handle them very well.  And that's basically it.  I mean, I just didn't make the right shots at the right time.  
 
Q.  Could you describe what your emotions were during the third set as she was coming back?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  No, I mean, it was very frustrating for me because I knew I was in the situation before, and it felt like I was losing it again.  You know, it's always very hard when this tournament means so much to you and you want to do well, and suddenly you feel like you were losing the match. 
 
Q.  But you felt in control of yourself?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Yeah, I mean, I was fine.  I was 5-2 up.  I had my chances there, which I haven't used.  Still I kept fighting till the end.  I have to give her the credit, the way she was playing at the end.  
 
Q.  Biggest disappointment in your tennis life just now?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  (Nodding head.)  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT