TELECOM ITALIA MASTERS
May 15, 2003
Daniela Hantuchova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  First question, please.  
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  
 
 
Q.  Two years ago I remember we were here, Collins and I, we were still old, very old...
 
 
Q.  And we came to your press conference, and I perceived a lot the fact that you were touring Rome, going around Rome, seeing picture galleries and monuments, things that the normal tennis player doesn't.  Considering that, could you compare yourself with some famous painting. 
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Well, I never, ever, ever thought about that, but it's raised that whenever I'm in Rome I always try to go to the city and see all the beautiful things because this is, for me, the most favorite city in the world.  So I really enjoy the time here.  But I'm sorry, but I can't think of any statues at the moment.  
 
Q.  Because, being one of your admirers, I suggest to you Lucas Cranach's Venus in the Galleria Borghese.  She wears a hat, and you are wearing a visor, so is okay.  Another one is some Botticelli. 
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Okay.  If I have a chance, I'll go and look at it.  
 
Q.  But there is a problem.  They are really beautiful but too skinny to compete with those very big contemporary tennis players.  What do you think?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Well, I don't think tennis is all about power.  More than anything important on the tennis court is, I think, head and the mental side.  That's what is the most important thing at the end.  You know, I just need to get more experience.  And I still think, of course, the Williams sisters are dominating because they are very powerful, but there are also other ways how to win tennis matches.  
 
Q.  What are those ways you are telling us, the other ways which are the ways to win, do you think? 
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Well, I think Conchita just showed it very clearly that, you know, you don't need the power to win a tennis match.  Today, you know, she just moved me around the court very well.  That's how you can win a match, too.  There are so many different shots on the court that you can use.  And, of course, against the Williams sisters it's very tough because the balls comes back very, very quick.  But, you know, I think Justine is proving it as well, and many other players, that there are also other ways.  
 
Q.  In other words, you don't feel you're too thin or not powerful enough.  Is that correct? 
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Well, I know I have to get stronger to match up with them, that's for sure.  I'm aware of that.  I just have to keep working hard physically.  But more than anything else, I think I need to get stronger mentally.  
 
Q.  Do you think that was the difference today, that maybe she was happier on the clay, more confident, knew exactly what to do?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Yeah, definitely.  I mean, after spending so many years on the tour and winning so many tournaments on clay, she was the one with a bit more experience.  But, still, I didn't play my best game today, but all the credit to her the way she was playing. 
 
Q.  You don't see many players like her anymore.  Did she confuse you at times? 
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Yeah, of course because it's very, very hard with her , what to expect.  I mean, we had a very close match in the Fed Cup final.  And also when before I lost to her on clay was always because it's very different to the other players.  You know, at this time, the balls usually comes very flat and very fast from all the other players, and she's one of the few that can mix it up and slice it, hit a lot of spin, so it's very awkward to play against her.  
 
Q.  What do you consider your favorite surface?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  I have to say I like to play on everything.  I like grass, too.  I like clay because that's what I was growing on.  And I won my first title on hard court.  So I like to play on everything. 
 
Q.  Doesn't make any difference?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  No, doesn't matter at all. 
 
Q.  If you had a chance to play again against Conchita tomorrow, how do you think you can win against her?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Well, playing my tennis.  Today I was nowhere near playing what I should have played.  I mean, I should have been much more aggressive and coming to the net more and making more first serves and just putting her under more pressure.  Today she was the one that was doing on the court whatever she wanted to, because I was not playing fast enough.  
 
Q.  Because you're quite an aggressive player, most people would look at the way you play and look at clay and say that it wouldn't be your best surface.  But you say you still enjoy playing on it?  You can still play aggressively on it?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Yeah, definitely.  Clay is what I grew on, and last year I did well on clay.  You know, it's great to play on it because you can use all the different shots.  On the other surfaces, it's much faster so you don't have time for that. 
 

End of FastScripts….


Q.  Daniela, tough match, tough third set.  You fought all the way and you won. 

DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Yeah, definitely. 

Q.  Is it a very pleasant victory for you?

DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Yeah, definitely.  Always matches like this are worth another five matches, and especially when I win this match as it gives me a lot of confidence.  Today was really tough because Magui was playing well.  I'm just glad how I fought in the third set and I just hang in there and waited for my chances and then when they came, I used them. 

Q.  Where did you find that strength in the heat today?  Because in the second set, it was gone away from you so fast.

DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Yeah, I have to say at the end of the match I felt very good physically and that's what I was really happy about, that even though I spend there quite a while  - I guess two and a half hour  - I still felt really fit and fresh at the end.  I think that made the difference, that I sort of felt that Magui was getting a bit tired, and that gave me a bit more confidence.  And I was just trying to go for my shots, and it paid off in the end. 

Q.  The last five, six weeks you have been struggling.  Is it important for you to win a match like this one?

DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  I mean, I wouldn't say I was struggling.  I won two important matches for the Fed Cup, we won that.  And then it was just bad luck in Warsaw.  I did quarterfinals in Berlin and I had a really, really close match there with Mikaelian, which I won 7-6 in the third.  Today was similar.  As I said, these matches are worth another five matches.  You know, I feel like I'm, you know, starting to play well on the clay and that's important for the French Open. 

Q.  Has anybody played as many dropshots against you?

DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Well, I mean, she's very good at it.  She's got really great hands.  I was expecting it.  A couple of times I just couldn't believe that she hit those from positions that I would never expected.  I mean, all the credit to her the way she was hitting those. 

Q.  You looked crazy for a minute. 

DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Yeah, I mean... but that's what she does, and she's very good at it. 

Q.  How is your confidence at the moment?

DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Oh, great.  I mean, especially after winning a match like this.  I love clay, and I love being here in Europe.  I'm really enjoying my time here in Rome and looking forward for the French Open.  I think I'm doing fine so far this year, and I just have to keep going and hopefully get higher and higher. 

Q.  Do you have a favorite restaurant here that you might be visiting tonight?

DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Here in Rome there is just so many.  Anywhere we go, I mean, was great.  I just love being here so much because this is, for me, my most favorite city in the world.  So I just really enjoy being this week here in Rome. 

Q.  What about your Roman fans?  Did you see them?

DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Yeah, yeah, I saw them.  I think it's great, you know, when I know they are supporting me.  At the end, in the third set, the atmosphere was great.  You know, I really enjoy playing in front of them. 

Q.  You said you like very much Italian food.  Where do you put the food?  You look a little thinner.

DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Well, as you saw today, I mean, I spend there three hours almost on the court.  I practiced for another hour-and-something in the morning, and yesterday we practice and train.  So, I mean, I guess I'm burning it off.  But, you know, I'm eating, eating well.  It's just that in the last couple of months, weeks, I have played a lot, and a lot of matches like this.  So, you know, it's good that I can eat whatever I want so...

Q.  Do you have a favorite food from the Italian kitchen?

DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  I mean, in the last couple of nights we have been in really nice places and whatever we have eaten was great.  I mean, I like, you know, the prosciutto and melon and all the different pastas.  I mean, I really like Italian kitchens  - and ice cream for sure (smiling). 

Q.  Can you speak a little Italian?

DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Poco, poco.  I'm trying and learning.  Still I have to improve.  But hopefully next year by this time it will be better. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT