HOME DEPOT CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 7, 2002
Daniela Hantuchova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Daniela, how tired were you?  

DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Well, I felt like I've got nothing left, and I just was not hitting the ball properly, and I was making way too many mistakes and that cost me the match.  I mean, I can't afford to play like this, you know, against such experienced players, and she made me pay for it.

Q.  Daniela, though you got ahead in the second set, and it appeared that maybe you could get your way in the match, what happened toward the end there?

DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Definitely in the second set I felt like I was right back in the match, and I had many chances to get the second set, but I didn't.  Also, in the 5-all game, I had some chances to win my service game, but I didn't play my game today, so I don't deserve to win.

Q.  What was the problem with the ankle?  You had it taped.  

DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Yeah, because I twisted it, and I didn't have time to rest it at all.  I had to fix it and to make sure it doesn't get any worse.

Q.  Did that play any part in this match?

DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Yeah, because I just was not sharp enough.  I was not moving as well as I should, and I felt like I was always one step slower by the ball, and I just didn't feel very well on the court, but there is nothing I can do about it now.

Q.  Daniela, you've beaten her twice this year.  Is there anything Maggie is doing differently from the other times you've played her?

DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Not at all.  I think it was just a matter of me, the way I was playing.  I mean, it's a shame twice I have beaten her this year, and it just happened here that I lost, and, of course, it's disappointing, but I just didn't play all that well today.

Q.  Talk about the turnaround.  Was it just too tough of a turnaround, to quick?

DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Yeah, it definitely was a lot for me.  A couple days ago I was playing the Fed Cup and I didn't have much time to adjust to the surface and the time difference.  I'm glad I was so busy at the end of the year, though.

Q.  Looking at this year, what was bigger to you, winning the Fed Cup or your first tournament?

DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  It's tough to say because it's different.  I mean, I won the tournament for myself, and Fed Cup was not only winning it for me but for the whole team and for the whole country.  I mean, I was happy about both results, but I would say maybe the Indian Wells meant a little bit more to me.  Winning the Fed Cup, the first time for Slovakia, is always something special.  It's hard to say.

Q.  What will you do now that the season is over?

DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Rest, definitely.  I need to take some time off, and I'm looking forward to spending some time with my family.

Q.  It seems like you've met all your goals for 2002.  In fact, you kept revising them.  What are your goals for the next year?

DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  I can tell you what the goals at the beginning of the season were, to make Masters and the top ten, and I did that, but I didn't say that before I actually achieved them, so I'm keeping that for myself.

Q.  What were your expectations for this tournament?

DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Well, obviously, not losing in the first round, but that's that.  Of course, it's a disappointment that I lost today, but still making the Masters was, I think, a great achievement, because at the beginning of the -- I mean, it was very exciting to just be here and be part of this event.

Q.  You're still playing doubles?

DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  No.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT