 PILOT PEN TENNIS
August 23, 2002
Daniela Hantuchova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  
 
 
Q.  She was pretty good tonight?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: Yeah, I mean, she played really well today, and especially her serve was unbelievable.  There was not much I could have done about that.  But still I gave my best and I think I got a lot of experience from this match. 
 
Q.  Why was her serve so tough for you tonight?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: She was serving first serve 118, even 120, so I mean, it's coming to my side so fast that it's really hard to even react when it's coming that fast.  She made a lot of first serves.  So that was difficult, I mean, when, you know, when she put in second serves was much easier to start the rally but with the first serve it was really difficult to find the rhythm. 
 
Q.  Line calls?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: That one was clearly out, so I mean, I was right there and I saw it, and I was very surprised that he over-called (sic) it, another one before.  So I mean, I don't think he should have done that, but I still won the next point and won the game so it was all right. 
 
Q.  Anything you were disappointed with in your own game?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: I didn't serve as well as I did  the whole week and I don't think I played my best, but still I hit some pretty good shots and I think it was a good tennis and I gave my best and hopefully next time it's going to finish different. 
 
Q.  Seems like you almost had to be -- the shots had to be perfect.  You pushed a few a long.  Was that just trying to be too fine maybe?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: Yeah, well when you are playing her you have to try to do something different, you know, to go for it more and not expect her that she's going to miss or something.  Maybe sometimes I pushed it too much and it went long and I think I did a couple of too many mistakes. 
 
Q.  You played her in Australia.  You won the first set there.  How was she playing now compared to now?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: Definitely I think she's improved a lot, and especially tactically I think she's much better prepared than she was before, and I mean, I think in the last couple of months she only lost to her sister, so she has improved so much and yeah, I mean, her serve, I think got even stronger and she's very tough at the moment.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT