PILOT PEN TENNIS
August 22, 2002
Daniela Hantuchova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
 
 
Q.  Is she a tough player to play because of the spins and angles?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: Yeah, definitely she's a very tough player because she can do anything she wants to on the court, and when I play her I always have to expect a tough match.  We played last week each other and it was very tough.  So I knew that I have to play really well to beat her. 
 
Q.  She said she was totally frustrated, had no answers for you at all, did you sense that at all that she was totally  --
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: I have to say I was really happy the way I played today.  And I felt like today that I can do anything on the court and I felt very confident from the first point and I was just playing my real tennis today. 
 
Q.  Can you carry that over to Venus?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: Well, I mean, Venus is a different player.  She has got more power and she's very quick.  She serves well, so it's going to be tougher but if I play like I did today and I mean, I think I have got a good chance and I mean, I have got nothing to lose.  I am looking forward to that match. 
 
Q.  How important is it the fact that you played her earlier this year Venus and gave her a pretty tough match?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: Yeah, I put her into three sets at the beginning of the year and I think since then I have improved quite a lot.  But she's playing great at the moment.  I think she lost only to her sister in the last couple of months so she's definitely a tough player to beat, but I am going to try and play my tennis to do my stuff out there and see what happens. 
 
Q.  Obviously you eventually want to get to the level she's at now.  Do you look at these matches to improve?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: All these big matches are giving me a lot of experience and when I want to be the best I have to start beating these best players and I am just going to try do my best and see what happens tomorrow. 
 
Q.  Playing three sets last night that didn't tire you out too much for today?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: Not really.  I feel physically very -- in a very good shape.  Yesterday I was not tired at all even though we played three sets and today I felt fit on the court and I fell like I am getting better and better from match to match.  
 
Q.  How about your net play today, that was part of the reason for the victory.  How good was that compared to where it has been before?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: Definitely I was trying to come in more today because I felt like in the previous matches I had chances to come in and I stood back at the baseline, so was trying to be even more aggressive today and it worked out pretty well.  
 
Q.  I understand you went golfing the other day?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: Yeah. 
 
Q.  How is your golf game?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: I think golf really is a great way to relax for me, and I really enjoy it, and I started last year and I think it's nice to do sometimes something different and get out of the tennis side and see something different.  
 
Q.  How do you enjoy your stay in New Haven compared to other cities on the Tour?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: I really enjoy it a lot, especially the restaurants are great here and it's really special for the food and it's great practice for me for the US Open.  So I am really happy to be here.  
 
Q.  Where did you play golf?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: At Yale. 
 
Q.  Nine holes?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: Yeah. 
 
Q.  What did you shoot?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: Well, it was not my best day, but I mean, I was hitting it pretty well.  I just started, you know, last year, so it's more fun for me than anything, but yeah it was all right.  Actually my coach plays very well. 
 
Q.  Do you look to play golf on many Tour stops or it is just a unique opportunity that the Yale golf course is available to you this week?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: It is great that you have got such a great course here.  I mean, for me it is one of my favorite golf courses.  I played all the different ones, but this one is really pretty and it is just ten minutes from here, so I thought it's a good change to do something different.  
 
Q.  So you played against Nigel?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: Can we talk about tennis more, please.  Because I feel like I am a golfer now.  
 
Q.  Did you play for money?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: No, just for fun.  
 
Q.  You didn't mention what the score was.
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: Well, I can tell you I won today 6  -4, 6-3.  That's the important thing.  
 
Q.  Since winning in Indian Wells and then it was a  little bit up and down I think after that, then you got quarterfinals in Wimbledon, which was a bigger deal for you as far as the transition of your game is concerned?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: I don't think it was up and down.  I think I was doing pretty well even after Indian Wells, I did fourth round in Paris and quarterfinals in other tournaments so I was really happy with the way I played after that, and Wimbledon was something really special for me, first time quarterfinal in a Grand Slam.  But there are still many things that I have to work on, but mentally I feel like I am much stronger than I used to be especially from those big matches.  
 
Q.  Did you understand what was going on when the supervisor came out  -- the code warning, what was going on?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: Obviously when you hit a ball as hard as she did and you hit somebody it's a case of when -- I think it's in the rule that the umpire can default the match, so I knew why they called the supervisor on the court, but I was just trying to focus on my game. 
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT