WIMBLEDON
July 3, 2002
Daniela Hantuchova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  How hard was that with the weather, coming and going, playing?

DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Well, I mean, it was pretty tough because if you have to come out of the court a couple of times, and was hard to, you know, keep concentrated the whole day.  But, I mean, we both had the same conditions, so was the same for both of us.  I mean, it's just something that, you know, I mean, belongs to Wimbledon, too.  You can't do anything about the weather.  So, I mean, I was all right with that. 

Q.  Can you talk about how tough it is to return her serve?

DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Yeah, I mean, she was serving unbelievable today.  I mean, she hit some really good serves on important points.  And that made the difference in the match.  I think she was playing really very, very well today. 

Q.  Is that as tough a serve as you've faced?

DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Well, I guess so because, I mean, she really hit a big one when she needed.  Like I had a couple breakpoints, she always hit like 110, 115 first serve.  It's really hhard to do anything about it. I mean, she was serving really great. 

Q.  What do you think your game still needs to be able to compete on equal terms?

DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Well, I mean, I think in Aussie showed, when I played Venus, that I can play with these players.  But I still got a lot to learn.  You know, they got more experience than me and more power.  But I think I've got, you know, other things that I can use on the court.  So I think it's just a matter of experience.

Q.  Is there something you can regret from this match, something you didn't do well?

DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Well, I mean, those breakpoints I had, I just couldn't do anything because she served so well.  Then I think at the beginning of the second set, I hit some shots that I shouldn't have hit.  Like I was a little bit in a rush when I had that point for 2-1 in the second set.  Then the rain came.  I was a little bit sort of rushing, not hitting the right shot.  She got into the lead.  You know, it's really hard to stop them when they were up and they feel good.  You know, they just go for the shots.  I mean, in the first set I was pleased the way I was hitting the ball.  Even though after the rain break I felt like, you know, I could still do something about the match, but she was just too good today. 

Q.  Do you have a different set of clothes for cold weather?

DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Yeah, well, I had this match clothes that I'm supposed to wear here in Wimbledon.  For cold weather, not really.

Q.  So there's no chance of putting something else on which is not on the agenda?

DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Well, I mean, I had one thing that I would put on if it would be really cold.  But otherwise, that's what I have to play in. 

Q.  How can you sum up the tournament for you?  You will leave Wimbledon with a good souvenir?

DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Yeah, I think I really had a great tournament.  It was the first time for me that I reached the quarterfinals.  I played one of the best players in the world.  It was a great experience for me.  I'm still playing mixed here, so I'm going to enjoy that.  But definitely I think it was a great, great week.  I mean, the crowd was really excellent.  Especially today, I really enjoyed to playing out there.  I felt like they were behind me.  So, I mean, I just really enjoy playing here in England.  Was great. 

Q.  The necklace that you always wear, is that a lucky charm?

DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Yes.

Q.  If so, why is that?

DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  It's just something that I love.  It has brought me a lot of luck.  I've got a lot of great memories for this.  It's just something that I like to wear.  Yeah, it's my favorite thing. 

Q.  Did you two meet up in the rain break?  What did you do during the rain breaks?

DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Well, I met with my coach, and we were trying to think about what would be the best, you know, what should I change on the court.  I was just trying not to waste with my energy and just to be focused on my tennis, but at the same time be calm and be prepared whenever they called us to go on the court. 

Q.  How long have you been with Nigel Sears?

DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  One year.

Q.  What do you feel Nigel has given your game?

DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Well, he gave me a lot.  I have learned so many things, not only mentally but also tactically.  And physically he made me much stronger.  Yeah, I really enjoy working with him.

Q.  What effect do you think it has on the women's tour to have two siblings competing at the top?

DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  I think the woman's tennis at the moment is really on a high level.  I mean, Serena and Venus are just playing unbelievable tennis.  I think it's great to have them on the top.  But I think there are many other players that are also playing great.  I think it's on a really high level.  I just hope it's going to be like this. 

Q.  Did you have any idea before coming to London that you might be hyped up as the new Kournikova?

DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Well, I mean, Nigel, because he's English, he tried to prepare me for this little bit.  I never thought it's going to be that big.  You know, obviously I think there has been a lot of stuff in the papers about me.  But, I mean, I'm really glad that you were able to write about  -- a lot about my tennis, too. 

Q.  Has this tournament changed something in the perspective you see, the tennis?

DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Well, definitely gave me a lot of experience, especially the fact that, you know, I felt like the crowd was behind me, was something really excited.  I think that can help me one day a lot in a big match here.  So I'm already now looking forward for next year's Wimbledon. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT