DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS WOMEN
February 22, 2012
Daniela Hantuchova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 D. HANTUCHOVA/S. Peng
  7‑5, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk to us about the match?   How did it go for you?  
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:   No, I thought it was a really tough match and I played really well from the beginning till the end.   She's a very tough opponent obviously.   She had a great win yesterday over Marion Bartoli, so I knew I had to play very well to beat her.  
   
 Q.   Just going back, obviously you're a two‑time Pattaya Open champion.   This time last year I think you came in here and lost early on because your health wasn't terribly good.   How are you now?   You must be feeling an awful lot better.   
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:   Yeah, because, because the weeks moved, obviously, and I had one week to recover.   The same thing happened in Doha last week.   I came there totally exhausted.   It was just impossible to perform at my best.   
Fortunately enough the weeks changed so I was able to play well here in Dubai.   It's been the same thing last year I made quarterfinals in Doha.   So hopefully this year here I can go even further.  
   
 Q.   Julia Goerges is your next opponent.   What do you know of her game?   
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:   Yeah, she's very talented girl and obviously she had a great year last year.  
Again, it's going to be a tough match, but I'm really looking forward to it.  
   
 Q.   You only play Peng once, 2007.   Can you compare?   Did she play different at that time?   
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:   Yeah, of course.   She improved so much, especially over the last 12 months.   She had a great year last year and she's worked really hard on her game, on the tennis side, on the fitness side.  
She's always going to be one of the toughest players to play against.   But she's a great girl.   We always practice together.   It's nice to see her to do so well.   
   
 Q.   Daniela, it was a near‑perfect performance today apart from the double fault in the end.   Do you think that this time you can go all the way here?  
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:   I'm just taking it one match at time.   That's all I can focus on.   Always give my best, and we'll see what happens at the end of the week.  
   
 Q.   Kvitova obviously pulled out, and today Vika's pulled out.   Does that open the draw up for a player like yourself and everyone else, would you say?  
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:   Yeah, obviously I'm very motivated.   In every tournament I play I want to win.   There is great depth in women's tennis at the moment, so every tournament is very open.   The level is just so high that anyone can beat anybody.   
I think it makes it very exciting for the tournaments, for the fans, and for ourselves as players as well.   
   
 Q.   What are your aspirations or hopes for this season?   
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:   Just to win as many matches as I can (smiling.)  
   
 Q.   The conditions have been windy for the past two, three days.   If it stays the same, how much do you have to adjust your normal game?  
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:   Yeah, it makes it everything much more different.   Tonight was really actually pleasant.   It was nice to be able to play in conditions like that after yesterday's match.  
So, yeah, you have to always adjust, really move your feet, and you just can't go for shots that you would normally do.   
Sometimes it can be frustrating, but it's the same thing for both players.   You just have to figure it out.  
   
 Q.   You've been coming here for several years.   Do you feel the weather is getting colder and colder?  
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:   Yeah, this year I think it's been the coldest ever, right?   So, yeah, it was really surprising actually last night when we were playing.   
Yeah, so I guess we can't do anything about that.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT