WIMBLEDON
July 1, 2002
Daniela Hantuchova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  First question, please, for Daniela Hantuchova.  
 
 
Q.  Would you say this is the biggest win of your career?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Well, I mean, yeah, I think it's one of my biggest wins because I have beaten a couple of the Top-10 players.  But, you know, this is Grand Slam, and that really means something.  So I'm just really happy the way I played today.  And, yeah, I have to say it's one of my biggest wins, yeah. 
 
Q.  Did the rain break come at the right time for you?  Jelena was ahead in the second set, wasn't she?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Yeah, well, I think the rain break helped me a little bit because I started really well, and I was pleased the way I played the first set.  But then I had a few chances at the beginning of the second set, which I didn't take.  I lost a bit of concentration.  After the rain break, I came back fresh, and I was very confident.  I'm just really happy that I came back in the second set, and I just did anything what it takes, you know, to win that second set.  And I was really happy the way I played. 
 
Q.  Are you surprised that you got the chances, given that she's ranked higher than you?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  No, I mean, not at all.  I played her already twice, and I won both matches.  So I was very confident about this one.  You know, I'm just really happy that it happen now in the Grand Slam, which means something more than in the other tournaments.  Yeah, I was definitely really happy about this win.  
 
Q.  Serena is going to be a formidable opponent in the quarterfinals. 
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Well, I'm just looking forward for this match very much because, I mean, it's for me first time in quarterfinals of a Grand Slam, and that's very excited for me - especially here in Wimbledon.  I've got nothing to lose.  So I just going to go out there and, you know, try to do my best.  I'm really looking forward. 
 
Q.  Have you played on the show courts before here?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  I played last year Venus on Court No.  1, and then the mixed doubles final. 
 
Q.  What have you learned about grass this year?  How are you more confident on the grass?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Definitely I'm really confident about the way I'm hitting the ball on grass, especially, you know, having an English coach has helped me a lot how to play on grass.  I just I think I got more experience than I had last year.  And, yeah, I think it's a really, really big advantage to have an English coach that knows, you know, how to play on grass. 
 
Q.  What are the special things you feel better about?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  I mean, it's just, you know  -- it helps me a lot when I'm, you know, trying to go for it and being aggressive because it's a fast surface.  Also, you know, trying to come in, it's much easier on grass than on other surface because, you know, the opponent has got not many chances to hit a good shot.  And also it helps me with the serve because it's fast.  So I'm really  -- I really like to play on grass. 
 
Q.  Do you get the feeling, Daniela, you're a real crowd favorite here? 
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Yeah, definitely.  I mean, I really love that atmosphere.  I really feel like every day I've got more and more friends on my side.  It's really a great feeling when you're out there and you know the crowd is supporting you and it helps you - and that can make a big difference. 
 
Q.  Is it at other tournaments or particularly at Wimbledon that you have such support?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Especially here in England, I'm getting a lot of fans.  And it's for me very exciting.  I just, you know, hope to keep it like it is.  Hopefully, you know, when they come to watch me, I hopefully, you know, can show them some of the good tennis.  I just really enjoy playing here in England. 
 
Q.  When you play against Serena, it will be a high-profile match.  Are you perhaps proud of the fact that you've been able to show that  - although you have all this attention, male attention  - that you can play good tennis, unlike other people who might suggest because you are good looking you may not be able to compete?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Exactly.  I'm really happy about this fact.  You know, the people like to talk about the other things, too, but I think that I proved this tournament that they can talk about my tennis, too, a lot.  I'm just really happy the way I played.  And, as I said, I'm just trying to be focused on my tennis.  You know, people like to talk about that other stuff, too.  But I'm really happy that I proved that my tennis is the most important thing for me.  
 
Q.  Have you had a lot of endorsements, sponsorship deals?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Well, I mean, these things are taken care of by my agent and manager, so I'm just focusing on my tennis.  
 
Q.  Who is your coach?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Nigel Sears. 
 
Q.  How will you celebrate tonight? 
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Well, I mean, definitely we're going to have a nice dinner.  I just will be focused on my next match.  I will get a nice rest, get ready for the next one.  But definitely we're going to have a nice dinner.  
 
Q.  Do you have any family here with you?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Yeah, my parents are here with me together.  They both are here.  And my coach, so.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT