PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 12, 2002
Daniela Hantuchova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Questions for Daniela.  
 
 
Q.  You're making this look very easy.  Is it?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Well, it's not really easy.  It's very tough.  But I was happy the way I played today, especially the second set looked quite easy.  I'm trying to make the things easier.  Sometimes I make it too complicated.  But when it's going good, it looks really easy.  
 
Q.  You were playing a much more experienced opponent today.  You pretty much dominated the match for most of it. 
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Yeah, that's right, she's got much more experience than me.  But I knew I have a big chance after beating Justine yesterday to make the semis here.  So I was just focusing on every single point and trying to do my best.  
 
Q.  How much do you think you've improved since that match in Australia where you very nearly beat Venus?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Yeah, well these matches gave me a lot of experience because I was many times very close to beat those players.  And finally here I broke it and start to beat them.  Yeah, I think mentally I'm much stronger.  Now I know more what to do in the important times of the match.  I think that's the difference. 
 
Q.  How long have you been working with Nigel?  What has he helped you with?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  We have started at Wimbledon last year.  I mean, the work with him is really amazing.  He has helped me a lot.  I'm just really enjoying working with him. 
 
Q.  Anything specifically?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Well, we are working on everything because all the time you have to improve everything if you want to be the best.  But I think, we are working more on tactic than anything else because I don't have that many experience like the other players do.  He always tells me what to do at the right time. 
 
Q.  Is he able to sort of tell you in simple terms so that it's so easy to understand what he's saying, or what?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Well, I mean, sometimes it's easy to understand, but the other thing is to really do it on the court.  So even though I understand what he's telling me, sometimes maybe I'm not doing it like he wanted me to do.  But, I mean, every practice that we have together gives me a lot, and every day I learn something new. 
 
Q.  How did you come to link up with him?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Well, I used to work with Nick Bollettieri, but he was not traveling on the tournament, so I wanted to have somebody that is working with me the whole time.  I never met Nigel before.  So we try to work for a couple of weeks, and it has worked out very well.  So we kept going.  Now we are together. 
 
Q.  Who first put you in touch with Nigel?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Actually, IMG, yeah. 
 
Q.  You mentioned a moment ago if you want to be the best.  Can you see yourself up there?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Well, of course, when you want to be the best, you have to imagine in your mind that you are the best.  You know, I'm just trying to always do my best on the court, try to improve in every single department.  I hope that it will come soon.  
 
Q.  Has Nigel convinced you yet that you have a game which can do very well on grass?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Yes, yes, he does.  I'm really looking forward for this year's Wimbledon.  He's got a lot of experience with grass because he used to be a player, too, so he knows how to play on it.  He's English, so I think that will help me a lot during the Wimbledon. 
 
Q.  Tell us about your next opponent, how you see that. 
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Well, I know I have a big chance now to get to the final, as I did today in the quarters.  I will try to do my best.  I never played her before.  But she's having also a very good tournament.  It's going to be tough, but I just hope to do my job and to be in the final. 
 
Q.  How do you prepare for an opponent you've never played?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Well, Nigel watched the match today, so we going to speak about the tactic.  I have a day off tomorrow, so we going to practice on things that I will need, and then we see. 
 
Q.  Your opponent is ranked No.  70.  Is that encouraging to you? 
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Well, I beat No.  7 yesterday, so if I get to the final, I think it's well-deserved.  When I am playing, I don't care who is on the other side of the court, I'm just concentrating on my game. 
 
Q.  When did you last lose to anyone ranked below you?  A long time, isn't it?
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Well, actually, I really don't know.  I lost to  -- actually, I can't remember now.  I don't know.  
 
Q.  We'll get them to look it up. 
 
DANIELA HANTUCHOVA:  Yeah.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT