AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 18, 2011
Daniela Hantuchova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. KVITOVA/D. Hantuchova
  7-6, 4-2, Ret. 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. How bad is it?  
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: It's not great; that's for sure. It happened at 3-Love in the first set. I was running for a wide backhand and kind of felt a sharp pain and just was getting worse and worse from then.  
  
  Q. What are your plans between now and maybe your first match?  
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: I don't know. Hope for some magic and get as much treatment as I can. Seeing the doctor now, and as soon as I come to Wimbledon I will try to work with the physios and try to do something to be able to be ready for Monday.  
  
  Q. What do you feel the odds are to be able to play?   
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: I don't know. It's hard to say right now. I'm hoping every day, every hour will help. But unfortunately it's quite frustrating knowing the way I played.   
 Yeah, just have to take it one day at a time. We will see.  
  
  Q. Would you say the windy conditions would have had anything to do with it?  
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: Yeah, for sure. Because I was kind of like reaching for the backhand, and then the wind took it even farther away. That's where it happened.   
 But probably I irritated it already before, trying to, you know, find the ball on my serve, not with the shoulder being great. So I'm sure I was kind of overcompensating and trying to figure out how to hit the shots without any pain with my shoulder, and probably that's why the abdominal happened.  
  
  Q. It makes it extra frustrating, because you were playing so well.   
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: Yeah, it is. I mean, I feel like I have been having such a great two weeks. Yeah, even today -- I mean, the conditions were just, I think, 10 times worse than with Venus. Obviously already that was quite frustrating; plus with the injury. Yeah, it was not an easy day in the office.  
 But I still got a lot of positives to take with me, and I feel so confident for Wimbledon. I just somehow have to take care of this, and I will give it every single effort I've got to be able to play and hopefully do well.  
  
  Q. It's hard because of the mental -- I mean, the physical side you can hopefully get right, but it's the mental effects of it.   
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: Well, I'm trying kind of to forget it now and really already be looking forward to Wimbledon. Obviously that's the highlight of my year, and, you know, in whatever shape I will be, I will take that and give it my best shot, whatever happens.  
  
  Q. Do you feel you made it worse by playing on after it happened?  
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: Probably, yeah. But I'm the kind of player, I will not give up until I know it's impossible.   
 Yeah, probably was not the smartest thing, but I just kept trying, kept fighting, because I felt like I was playing so well and really wanted to win another title here.  
  
  Q. Is it an injury you've had before?  
 DANIELA HANTUCHOVA: No, first time.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT