LPGA KEB HANABANK CHAMPIONSHIP
October 13, 2016
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








(Through translation.)
THE MODERATOR: Everyone, Se Ri after the first round in her last tournament.  I know many of you have followed her career for very long, and so I am only going to start with some very short questions and then turn it over to you.
My first question, so after your first round what are you feeling?  Are you feeling like you expected to feel before starting your round?
SE RI PAK: (Through translation.)  This morning I did a practice round and I was on the tee box and didn't really hit me that this was my final round.
But then I saw the gallery and all the people had scarves my name on it.  A lot of them came out for me, and during the game they told me what a good job I was doing and good job I did.
That's when it all really hit me that this was going to be my final round.  I feel that the way they were supporting me was different kind of.  Before they were supporting me as a competitor in this game.  It felt kind of different.
So I will have to say that during the game it was an emotional roller coaster for me.  After the initial kind of wave of emotion I was able to carry out my game.
Then when I reached the 18th I was on the tee box and I felt like I couldn't make the shot.  I think I cried all throughout the 18th hole.  Actually there was flood of emotions that I really didn't expect to feel.  I didn't expect myself to feel this way.
From the fairway of the 18th hole and the green I could see the gallery and the fans and there was just a lot of love and support.  I think it was one of the best moments.  I've had a lot of the victories in my career, and I have to say it was one of the best, happiest moments of my career.
It wasn't easy out there today, but I'm glad I was able to finish the game.
THE MODERATOR: I saw your caddie on the side today.  She was in tears.  She was saying she was your caddie today but also a fan, and it was very emotional for her to be your caddie today.  What was it like to have a fan such as her as your caddie today?
SE RI PAK: The person you're referring to, the caddie, she's actually one of my longest and most avid fans.  She has my picture on her SMS and cell phone, and in fact she's ready to fight for me against naysayers.
Although it's about once a year, whenever I need her she really welcomes me.  If the weather is cold she'll bring me something warm.  I think it was really emotional for her too because she is my fan and she's used to seeing me on the course.  I think she was crying with me on the whole course and the 18th hole.
So much so that she mentioned that if she was only five years younger maybe she could have joined me as my caddie beginning with my career in the U.S.  so she's an avid supporter.
In terms of retirement, I think there was a part of me that was relieved and part of me that wanted to stay on.  At this point I am really thinking about what I could have done more in my career.  It's actually very difficult to describe in words what I'm feeling right now.
I actually have a fan from Arkansas who traveled all the way from the U.S. to be at my retirement ceremony, so I'm feeling a lot of gratitude right now.  I think I was very lucky and fortunate.  I've had only good things happen in my career and I'm very grateful for that at this point.
THE MODERATOR: Questions.
Q. So you're now officially retired.  Did you get any sleep last night, and how do you think you'll sleep tonight?
SE RI PAK: I haven't been sleeping well for a while now, as of the Olympics, the retirement premier.  I have a lot on my mind and I'm used to being in competition.  I would have a competition lined up.
I don't think it has really hit me now and didn't hit me.  It wasn't a sudden decision to retire, but I think it will take time for me to absorb the fact that I will no longer be competing.
Today I was really happy and grateful to see so many fans out there.  It really moved me.  I really wanted to show them my appreciation.  I couldn't figure out how during the competition, but I was very moved by the open retirement ceremony.  I was very, very extremely happy.
I thought to myself, I must be the only athlete ever to be sent off with such a moving and beautiful retirement ceremony.  I realize how many people made a lot of effort for this to happen.
I think I probably would have difficulty sleeping until this week.  Even after this week.  I think it'll take time for me to absorb the fact that I'm really retired.  After this competition I think it'll feel like I'm just taking a break in between seasons.
So I think it'll be the same for my fans, too.  It'll take some time for us to really absorb the fact that I'm retired.
Q. You played the first round, and if you go back tonight and think about, don't you think you would want to come back tomorrow for just one more round?
SE RI PAK: In fact, a lot of the people have been asking me that question today.  They've been asking me, If you're on the top of the leaderboard or if you're doing really well, don't you think you'll finish this competition, this one last time?
My answer was, I don't think so.  I have officially stated that I'm withdrawing from this championship.  I think I fulfilled my heart's desire.  I never really looked back on my decisions.  I think the same goes for this one as well.
There were a lot difficult times during my career, but I think I had a really moving, beautiful retirement ceremony today.  If I came back tomorrow I think it would be really awkward for the people that were at the retirement ceremony.
Q. While it's sad to say farewell, your father has been an enormous influence in your life.  He is mentor.  I saw you embrace earlier.  What has your father said about your retirement?  Are there any special memories you would like to share with us today?
SE RI PAK: As I was hugging him I think we really didn't really need to say much.  We really know each so well that I don't need to spell it out for him and he doesn't need to spell out what he is feeling.
My family had time to prepare for my retirement as well, but I think they're feeling the same thing.  It hasn't hit them yet.  During my career there were a lot of ups and downs, but I think ultimately they made me who I am today.  My family, without my family and my father, I wouldn't be here today.
In terms of my life as an athlete, I think my father was a pivotal figure in my golf.  He was the heart.  He introduced me to the sport and he gave me reason to succeed.  I have immense gratitude for him.  He served as a father, friend, and most avid supporter.  At this point I only have the utmost gratitude for my father.
Q. (English.)  Looking back on your career and the impact your win at the '98 U.S. Women's Open had, not just in Korean golf but in golf in general, do you ever think back to that 18the hole of that playoff and winder how different things might've been?  (Indiscernible.)
SE RI PAK: (In English.)  I never actually thought about it second chance.  That moment I have, I just want to have a great experience, because I'm the rookie from unknown country that nobody knows.  The golfer's 20 years old and never have full name, but already has -- I already has a great time that week especially Monday.
I tell myself because starting 18 playoff, I said, You know what?  I already make halfway my dreams come true because one of the goals I had was try to won U.S. Open at least one time in my life.
I don't know if it's going to be possible to do that, but that day after finishing round I knew I'm tied for the lead and I have to play another 18 hole.  Of course I'm not happy to play 18 because you never want to play an extra hole.
But anyway, it was really good experience 1 through 18, and then still tipping point.  But my shots 18, last hole 19 to the water, but there are any other way, any other chance, there is none.  Really have no choice, no chance for that.
But if tell myself to make decision go inside water try to hit the shot from that moment, I said, I just want to learn myself.  I know it's impossible, but at least I knew and try it.  I know next time I'm never going to do that ever.
So then just trust myself to be build more confidence.  Already I knew I'm so happy that moment I has.  At the same, I'm halfway to get my dreams come true.  I wish I can win, but there is no guarantee with that.
So that moment, yeah, if we doubt and don't trying, I don't think I'm here as Se Ri Pak, I think.
Q. You're retiring and you have a lot of players, so-called Se Ri Kids.  Most of them are doing very, very well on the LPGA.  When looking at these players, what goes through your mind?
SE RI PAK: First of all, I feel a sense of relief and a lot of support by having those players.  I think if we had no so-called Se Ri Kids, the Korean golf scene would be quite different today.
When my career started to take off, I really wanted it to start with my but not end with me.  Fortunately it will continue with the so-called Se Ri Kids.
I hope the so-called Se Ri kid players continue on and inspire other younger kids to continue to lead Korean golf and act as a trigger to further develop Korean golf.  I think one of my biggest dreams at this point is for the next generation of players to continue to do well and continue to develop Korean golf.
Q. (In English.)  What did you make of the hats?  What was that like looking out and seeing all the players and fans wearing the hats?  What was it like in the receiving line with all the players coming up and hugging you?  Were you surprised by some of the faces and retired players who came out?
SE RI PAK: (In English.)  I never expect that ever.  Kind of just think myself this is going to be this way, and just kind of -- but really I see about me where my name is on the hat, and really a lot of emotion going on through my mind.
Last 20 years I make my dreams, I'm trying to reaching my dreams, and here I am.  So much people loves me, and especially the kids now and (indiscernible) and stuff like that.
As I said, whoever retired, I don't know who is ever going to have my emotion, my retirement.  I don't think I never see that.  I don't know how I think with that, because especially they make me so special person.
So then in the future not as golfer, but as golf business, and I will just built another confidence in my life start to begin, about where, how.  Of course I'm not really rookie, but new life.  Special P.S., it's not as golfer.  Nervous.
I wasn't sure how long that it takes, but I know I can do that and I will make that happen.  Don't have to tell me, I can feel that, though.  They eye, face, smile, just all kind of different emotions.  But I know what they said.  I'm so much loving person and lucky person all my life, I guess.
Q. (Through translation.)  Park Chan-ho was here at your retirement ceremony, and he told us he felt like you were partners.  You were both at the peak of your careers during the same time and that he was consoled by you and received a lot of support from you.  What does he mean to you?  What does it mean for him to be here at your retirement ceremony?
SE RI PAK: I would like to point out that I am looking for actually a partner for tonight, so...
So I think it was around 1998, the late '90s, and a time it was very difficult for Korean athletes to gain recognition for their competency.  So his decision to go to the U.S. at the time was not a very easy decision and a great challenge.
But by doing so, he opened the path for many young baseball athletes in Korea.  He was a pioneer, like myself.  It's not easy being a pioneer.  It comes with a lot of heavy responsibility.  In some sense with that sense of responsibility that helped both him and I get as far as we did.
I think that even in the future we may be in different fields, but we will continue to be partners as we look for ways to support future athletes of Korea.  So I hope that we will go down a similar path and we can continue to be partners.
Q. I am wondering what it means to have had the retirement ceremony here?  I'm sure it's meaningful for you personally because you were the first winner of this championship and this is your sponsor.  What does it mean for you to have your retirement ceremony at championship, the only one held in Korea.
SE RI PAK: (In Korean:  Untranslated.)






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT