PAGENET CHAMPIONSHIP
November 13, 1999
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







SE RI PAK: Great round. (Laughter). Actually, I got, on No. 2 -- no, No. 3 I had first
trouble on my tee shot. I hit it left -- I thought that it's fine, but I didn't even see
my ball. But my caddie said just in case (inaudible). Then after I find out my ball is
going left, not bad lie if I didn't hit the tree I didn't even hit the tree -- hit the
tree, way kicked left, bouncing over the fence, the people's house, I think. So that was
first of my trouble. My second shot is over the pin back side of the green bunker. So over
the bunker, made it, so it was a good save, anyway, bogey, first bogey. Right after, next
hole, par 3, I hit an 8-iron to the green and then 20 feet, I think, then maybe two a half
feet over the hole, and I missed it and 3-putted, second bogey. Then I got number 8, my
drive was problem. I hit it a little left under the tree. I had to lay up to the fairway.
Didn't even get the fairway -- it was first cut, that is, the rough. Third shot, on the
green -- third shot is over the green. It's over the green and into the bunker. Pretty
good bunker shot. And then I made six feet, I made the putt, so I make the bogey. No. 10,
that was pretty good. Lay up was pretty good. Third shot I got 95, I think. When I hit my
A-wedge over to the pin, the second level on top of the green, it was pretty difficult to
putt because it was way downhill, 15 feet downhill, and then I went past the hole, like
six feet, I think -- into, five feet and then I missed putt. 3-putted, bogey. No. 11, I
hit very bad 6-iron to just on the green. Pin is very backside, 40 feet, I think, and I
made the putt, first birdie of the day. No. 12, I think I have only 110, something like
that, second shot, and that's maybe 10 feet to the hole and I make the putt.

Q. What did you hit?

SE RI PAK: Wedge. Make the putt. That's my second birdie of the day.

Q. Was it a struggle?

SE RI PAK: I guess, today, yeah. My tee shots just make me work a lot all day, and my
putting is kind of a problem, too. Not enough speed, you know, sometimes too short. And I
think I misread 2-putts. Otherwise -- otherwise everything is okay, but anyways, it's good
anyway (Laughter.)

Q. You've got to feel good about coming back because you were losing it and you came
back pretty strong?

SE RI PAK: I'm hitting closer to the pin on my second shot, yeah, and I make some
putts. I think back nine were better than front nine, I was getting better yeah.

Q. Did you start to worry, when you hit the first one out of bounds? Did it start
making you think?

SE RI PAK: Nothing to think, bad thoughts, anyway. It's only third hole, you know. Not
thinking too much with 16 to go. 

Q. Did you start to think, "This is going to be a long day?"

SE RI PAK: Until when I start missing the putts. On the green -- sometimes it's pretty
important to make the putt, right, birdie, par. Just to have to read and make sure it's
good speed, long, short, don't want to misread or anything like that. Make me work with
the green, I think, because I miss so many putts. 

Q. How far were you into the round when you began to realize that that wasn't on?

SE RI PAK: I think starting No. 4, anyway. I miss my short putt. I never miss that kind
of putt. I know something pretty bad, anyway. Pretty good to finish 2-over. I play more
worse today, I think. 

Q. Tomorrow you're going to play with Lorie Kane, a good friend, who has never won ?

SE RI PAK: She told me the other time on the range, we talking sometimes, just say,
"I see you Sunday, final round, last group." "Okay, I'm ready." Then
other times, she play good and I play bad or she play bad and I play good. Now we meet
each other finally. This time tomorrow, it's pretty good, you know. Last tournament, last
round, final. Pretty good friends together and it will be so fun. Of course, the others we
practice together in the round, we play some games. Close to the pin is five dollars, make
the putt and birdie. Sometimes I just tell them, because she is pretty good, you know
other times, she won so many holes and sometimes I tell her to do that -- (inaudible)
loaned her five dollars. (Laughter). Like that practice round I tell Nancy and Lorie, they
are so good that many holes I didn't get that much as they do, and I tell them to, okay,
play long drive; it's more better. Anyway, one of the things, is kind of gamble here, it's
fun.

Q. Next year there's about three or four rookie Korean players coming out. Will that
add a comfort level for you?

SE RI PAK: I don't care. I mean, pretty good that many people come, especially my
country. Right now when I came here, I'm alone and now more of my friends come, play
together, they are playing good. Looks more comfortable more fun, happy to see them. So
it's more better. 

Q. Did you say Lorie makes the most money in the practice rounds?

SE RI PAK: She do all the time. But I did, too, but she just so good. 

Q. Did you get your money back in the casino last night?

SE RI PAK: Oh, yeah.

Q. (Inaudible.)

SE RI PAK: Maybe, and I have to play again. I just lost 60 bucks.

Q. You sat in New York City with a bottle of champagne and waited five playoff holes
for Lorie to win. How tough was that?

SE RI PAK: That is I hope she won the tournament because she's waiting you know. So
many times she has good chance, but she never won. It I'm just so happy when she wins.
Keep waiting and waiting. I'm nervous when I'm playing no matter what, but that time --
I'm more nervous than her. I'm hoping she won -- she make the putt, I feel she has pretty
good chance. But she just cannot finish, cannot stop, and going and going and going. And
then finally she lost on last hole, and just that time was so -- I'm happy to winner, but
for Lorie I'm so sad, just so sorry to do that. 

Q. Did you change your airline ticket to stay there for the playoff?

SE RI PAK: No. I just stay. I leave Monday morning anyway. 

Q. Does it make a difference -- you had a pretty good back nine today. Will that help
your game tomorrow?

SE RI PAK: Oh, yeah. I think. I know what's wrong, what's the problem. So I go right
after I finish interview, I go practice and ready to go tomorrow. And then I see tomorrow,
last, 18 hole green, I get the trophy, I hope.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT