PAGENET CHAMPIONSHIP
November 12, 1999
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







SE RI PAK: First birdie today No. 2, I use my 8-iron to the pin. Finish, I think,
eight, ten feet, I think. Then second birdie next hole No. 3, my second shot pitching
wedge to the hole, maybe some twelve feet, I think, uphill. Then No. 6, my third birdie.
No. 6 I got -- par 5, 9-iron. 6 is for 4 -- use my 9-iron in the green, the same, just
only like eight or nine feet, I mean, 8, yeah. Then No. 7 I use my 7-iron, 15 feet, I
think. I make the birdie. Then next one, par 5, second shot I hit a 3-wood on the green,
almost like 35 feet, close 40 feet, I make the 2-putt. No. 12, I got -- I hit my 9-iron
second shot, I hit it pretty close, like only like six feet, pretty close. Then 13 I make
another birdie. I use my pitching wedge, 1 and a half feet, few inches. I make the birdie.
No. 18, my first birdie today. Drive hitting right side so just trying to hit second shot,
a little fade, doesn't working, so (inaudible) turn over, inside the bunker, I hit pretty
good shot there, seven feet, not a good enough speed, just was short, missed left, I make
the bogey.

Q. Are you playing with same irons you had last year?

SE RI PAK: No.

Q. Is it the Hawkeyes?

SE RI PAK: Yes.

Q. How long have you played with those?

SE RI PAK: Two days.

Q. Today or two days?

SE RI PAK: Two days. I start--

Q. You like them?

SE RI PAK: Yeah, I mean, it is pretty good. Last time I used my old club, I think I
lost my distance. But this time, I just was trying to find the right club and my irons I
could not find it, I just want to try something new, so I got a Titleist, I got a Hawkeye,
I got Mizuno, I just need some time to practice Mizuno and Titleist. Callaway is pretty
easy to hit; that is why I just try after Tuesday. I got it Wednesday, anyway I start
playing the Hawkeye. Pretty good, I just find good distance. It is more better play, is it
working.

Q. Yeah, obviously.

SE RI PAK: Yeah, it is working. (laughter).

Q. Did you start thinking a very low score midway the round when you were so many under
par, like shooting a 61 or anything like that?

SE RI PAK: Actually it is not that easy, this -- difficult to shoot 3- or 4-under, I
mean, it is true, but maybe it is green, tricky lie, many tricky lie and a little long
golf course. Now it looks like a little fun. The greens are pretty difficult with the
spin. It is not easy to shoot like 10- or 9-under.

Q. As well as you are doing, would you bother with the two other sets of irons, try
them out?

SE RI PAK: No, I don't -- I don't have any problem with the change, just comfortable
anyway. It is not easy to shoot 10under but you are, what, 12-under right now. I mean, it
is not that easy to shoot like 3- or 4-under, but I shoot like 6-under in two days. I
mean, that is perfect right now. That is two days left, I hope I go through same like
this, I hope.

Q. You will probably win?

SE RI PAK: Yeah, that is I want to be.

Q. Maybe Callaway is going to owe you a lot after this?

SE RI PAK: I mean, maybe pretty happy, I think. But I don't know, it is not great for
me because I didn't make any contract yet. So kind of somehow like halfway it is pretty
good; halfway lost money, I don't have any contracts. Good for Callaway.

Q. You don't have a Callaway contract right now?

SE RI PAK: Not yet, no.

Q. But you probably do after this weekend?

SE RI PAK: I got a good sponsor, I want to be -- get a good sponsor; that is why I am
just waiting.

Q. How many putters have you tried this year?

SE RI PAK: Two.

Q. That is it?

SE RI PAK: Yeah.

Q. New putter this week?

SE RI PAK: No. Same putter.

Q. A couple of years ago you were taking English lessons; you are not doing that at
all?

SE RI PAK: Not at all. I do before last year, first time, like maybe few months, but
they just all the time repeat, repeat. I can't learn anything, cannot say anything
anymore, they just tell me get it, got it, blah, blah thing. I cannot use all the time
like same words. I just find out, keep ask people how can I learn quickly and I talk to
you guys, they said -- player said, no matter what you have to say, you keep talking. How
can I talk, you know, I don't even know. But they just make some more friends and talk to
them and kind of close to the friends keep hanging out together. That is why I want to
learn quickly more better than taking lessons.

Q. How do these two rounds compare to the way you played in the past, among your best,
the best?

SE RI PAK: I think this week is the best, I think because I am much more comfortable,
which is fun, fun outside the golf course and eat dinner, it is good food around here,
many thing to see, and I see good friends, it is perfect, I think. Even though I not
playing good I still happy and enjoy everything is perfect right now, play good, enjoy,
and happy and everything is pretty good.

Q. Have you ever been to Las Vegas before? 

SE RI PAK: Last year, first time.

Q. You said yesterday that you have to still call your mom and dad a lot. Did you call
them after that good round yesterday?

SE RI PAK: Yeah.

Q. What did they say?

SE RI PAK: They are pretty happy for the round. But this morning I talked to my mom
before I get to the golf course and I say, hi, mom. Then she said hi. Then she asked me
how I feel. I said, I am pretty good now. She said, okay, don't push yourself, just play
and just for fun to play. Oh, yeah, I do, but if I am not play good my mom and dad isn't
happy anyway. This time it is pretty good I didn't talk to them yet but they are pretty
happy still. If they have something any questions, maybe they talk about last 18 holes I
make the bogey, talking to them the reason why.

Q. Do you have any idea why you usually do well once you get out in front?

SE RI PAK: Maybe because I am more strong, I think. I mean, not like first time when I
win, it is all great players see me, Karrie and everybody (inaudible) just they get
leader, then they will get back, right, must be -- feels like more everyday feels I am
more comfortable, and maybe shot -- that is why that make me more play good. More fun,
play strongly, that is why I have control.

Q. Do you like playing with Laura Davies?

SE RI PAK: Oh, yeah, she is great. I just want to see she is hitting driver, you know,
pretty fun to watch on the same team it is.

Q. Do you feel now that everyone is playing for second place or there is a still a lot
of golf left?

SE RI PAK: Still a lot of golf left, I think still. Not done yet anyway. No matter what
I cannot stop. Keep working keep working on.

Q. What are you going to do tonight for fun, Ricky Martin?

SE RI PAK: No, important for me after golf eating, so I have to try to find a good
restaurant. Then maybe some play slot machine, I want to get my money back.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT