PAGENET CHAMPIONSHIP
November 11, 1999
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







SE RI PAK: First birdie on 1st hole. 7-iron on 1st hole. Maybe seven feet, eight or
seven feet. I make the putt. I make second birdie on No. 10. I use my third shot --
(inaudible) and then same, seven feet. No. 12, I use my 9-iron. Then I make pretty good,
about eight feet, ten feet. No. 14 is my 9-iron, soft iron, and same, eight feet, I think.
Number 15, the par 5, I use my second shot, 5-wood on the green, and it was like 30 feet,
downhill. It wasn't like the eagle, just few inches to make the birdie 2-putt. And then on
No. 16, 9-iron from the tee, and just same, eight, nine feet.

Q. Se Ri, everyone is talking about Inkster and Webb. Did they forget about you?

SE RI PAK: They forget about me? Actually, I mean, this year, Julie and Karrie Webb is
their season. They play so good and play so strong. Every player around here are Top 30.
It looks like two players are best already; so I don't mind, trying to follow them, but
still, you know, this is only second year only for me. Still feels like that I don't know
that much that I did last year, but is still pretty new. Just every hole, I do my best. I
just want to play good every day, every week, I think. Sometimes it works, sometimes it
not works. But today, I just feel so good, you know. And having fun out here, outside, all
season. Feel more relaxed. Just practice hard, just more enjoy it than last year.

Q. Why is your second half so much better this year than the first half?

SE RI PAK: I don't know. It's not any reason. Last year, I went to my country and I'm
very sick. And after that, I think I totally last everything, my tempo, feel, everything,
my mind, and that's why I just so happy that I have so many hard time. I still practice
hard. Feels like everything is same, you know, nothing different. But feels like something
-- something I cannot find it, but I know that now, after, you know, half-year,
half-season is finished, I start play good and, like every week, feels like more better
play, find something, tempo or feeling. This way -- this going to happen this year, hard
time from last year, but after that, I just need some time to take care of myself more.
And now I'm back. 

Q. Was it really distracting with hiring a manager --?

SE RI PAK: Not at all. I think that's good for me, I think. Actually, this year before
I start season, I decide to finish with David. I finish with my old manager, everything
that decide what I'm doing. I think I'm so happy to do this year what I'm doing. I finish
all -- they take care of myself, and work with IMG and just play golf. Everything is
perfect. Better than last year. I don't have any problem from that. Just problem is last
year I had so many things to do, you know. Just so many people want Se Ri Pak; I have to
do 20, 30 things at the same time together. Just cannot handle that. That's why after
that, I'm sick very bad, and then I lost everything, the feeling, mind, and everything.
That's why so many hard times. 
This year is half-season. Now I'm so happy. And I'm playing better, good. It's more fun
and more exciting. I just enjoy my life. 

Q. What have you learned by doing everything yourself? You used to have everything done
for you?

SE RI PAK: Other time -- yeah, it's true. Other time, so many people around. So many
people -- if I ever need to clean my clothes, people take care and everything. I don't do
that -- I don't like to do that. I don't know why so many people are around other times.
Now, I mean, this year, that's -- starting this year, I think I just don't want people
around me as much as last year. I just take care of myself, I laundry myself and practice
myself and I travel myself and everything. More fun and I learn more, faster than -- I
want to move quickly, more fun to do that. 

Q. Were you still having more fun earlier this year, even though you were winning, even
though it was more free? 

SE RI PAK: This year, for half-season -- it's not that good play, but feels like --
feels like my mind is so light. When I play golf and outside the golf course, if feels
like more -- much lighter and more fun to play. Just looks like I can play whatever I
want. Just like that makes me more better this year. This year, if I didn't win any win, I
still be so happy. I still so happy from last year.

Q. But it's even funnier when you win?

SE RI PAK: Of course. But whether or not I win or not, I'm still happy, more fun.

Q. Is there anything that you still wish somebody still did for you that you don't like
doing? 

SE RI PAK: Yeah, sometimes just -- I mean, my mom and dad, it just feels like I'm
little baby, you know. They just don't want me to do anything. Just say, no, no, no, all
the time. But sometime I just don't want to -- I just don't want to be like baby all the
time. I just want to tell them to -- I know I can do many things myself. Of course, you
know, I cannot be perfect; I can mistake or miss something or lost it. But that's life,
you know, and you have to learn. I told my mom and dad already -- my mom worry about what
I'm doing, if I'm in trouble or I come back late at home, still, they worry a lot. And
every day, two or three times, I have to talk on the phone with them, after the
tournament, before the tournament. Otherwise, everything is perfect, you know. Just my mom
and dad keep looking at me like little baby. Otherwise, it's good. 

Q. What was the trip back to Korea this year like?

SE RI PAK: Much, much better. Before I live like few months, nonstop, get the schedule,
and I take schedule, meeting everything, checking on it. Before, I didn't check -- first
time schedule come out, it's still a lot. It feels like last year. But before few months,
I went to Korea, it's already cut. I decided to do important things only. That's why this
time it's so much easier and more fun, the more happy. Just so good. This time, I just
went to there, it's so good, having to stay a little bit longer. 

Q. That was two weeks ago?

SE RI PAK: I stayed there two weeks. 

Q. You took Nancy?

SE RI PAK: Nancy and--

Q. Did you take her to meet your family?

SE RI PAK: Of course. I think Nancy had so much fun there, I think. She got many gifts
from people. I don't have any (Laughter). We ate dinner together. We hang out together. We
just show them -- next time -- maybe next year, I want to bring her to some fun city,
shopping more better, like that. This year, looks like Nancy, Nancy, she's -- I don't
know. This kind of -- other time when I go somewhere that I get many gift, but this time I
went with Nancy together, they forgot about me. They thought about Nancy first. I didn't
get anything, sorry. (Inaudible). Right after this tournament finish, maybe I call her to
say something; maybe I need some gifts or something. I think she has pretty good time.

Q. So it's her first trip to Korea, right? 

SE RI PAK: I think so. First time. 

Q. Have you played much golf with Grace Park? 

SE RI PAK: Yeah. 

Q. Do you know her?

SE RI PAK: I know her. I play with her when I was a Junior. I just talk golf, you know.
I play with her first time at the tournament, then she goes right after -- right after she
just came over here, I think. 

Q. So you weren't rivals?

SE RI PAK: No. I just know her. But not much. Just say hi. She's great player. 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT