U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 4, 1999
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
SE RI PAK:  Today, I had lots of birdie chances, like six feet or seven feet.  Pretty close to pin.  But today, kind of -- I didn't have speed.  They didn't have that much -- firm.  I didn't hit that much speed, but it's actually not that fast.  Other times, I'm pretty sure it breaks, more or less break.  I'm just pretty solid.  My driver is one hundred percent of fairway.  I was pretty happy, but it was my putting.  But pretty good today.  I think I -- like right now, when I'm in position, like three shot behind, I think I have more, you know, I have still have chance, because halfway finished and two days more to play.  But, you know, just kind of -- it's better than the top, because a lot of time you have to work hard; and now I'm just trying to get it and sometimes more easier to get.  So I think it's pretty good today, my position right now, 6-under. 
 
SE RI PAK:  First birdie is on No. 13.  I hit my pitching wedge to three and a half feet; so I make the putt.  The second birdie is on No. 15.  The second shot I used my 3-iron, you know, nothing perfect, but it's good break up the hill for 2-putt.  Like 15 feet I think.  15, yeah, 15 or 20 feet, something like that; so that's two putts.  Two birdies, no bogeys. 
 
SE RI PAK:  Yeah.  I did, you know, figure shoot 5-under and I'm playing -- with players like  3-under, and I feel like pretty boring after front nine, nothing.  I didn't make any -- putt anything like that.  It was pretty good today. 
 

Q.  Se Ri, have you discovered yet whether you enjoy chasing the leader, or whether you enjoy being in the lead and having them chase you?  Have you discovered that in yourself yet?
 
SE RI PAK:  Like sometimes is -- like right now, position like chasing the leader, there's more fun, you know, to keep -- I don't need to do thinking.  It's if they can catch me.  It's like more comfortable.  Hitting the ball; make the putt.  It's pretty simple.  It's not that easy, but I feel like more better than other times leader all the time.  I have to think about what other players behind me, what under, things like that.  I think sometimes chasing is more fun, exciting to play. 
 

Q.  What do you think of Grace's play today, and do you think she is headed for great things when she turns pro?
 
SE RI PAK:  What I think about Grace Park? 
 

Q.  Do you think she's headed for big things?  On TOUR?
 
SE RI PAK:  Actually, I play with her like long time ago.  Right now I still play with her, you know, first time in here.  Looks like she's pretty much changed, you know, like more -- game is more strong.  Grace, you know, she is pretty -- she is good player before, but getting more strong, and then she turned pro after this week; right?  I cannot say anything to her just.  Like just want to say just kind of patient, you know.  But right now, she's nothing to lose for her, amateur before the pro.  She has to like keep trying. She doesn't look -- need to like thinking about every shot, you know, and go like leader or win.  It's just learn time.  She doesn't have anything to lose, but after she turns pro, maybe she knows the time how much to do professional.  Kind of patient like she's doing.  Work hard still, and keep playing like right now like this, and she's going to be good player. 
 

Q.  Were conditions more difficult today? 
 
SE RI PAK:  Actually, the weather is nothing different than yesterday.  Feel like sometimes more hot because more wet in the morning.  But otherwise, you know, it's better than cold.  Other times we just -- I don't like cold.  I like hot.  But it's pretty -- it's okay.  Hot is okay.  But the golf course is -- looks like -- looks like hard, you know, but lot of tricky holes.  And the green, it was pretty fast.  There is another green which isn't fast. Sometimes slow when we get to some little bit firm, that's fast.  So pretty shaky and pretty tricky a lot in outside.  So it's not that easy golf course. 
 

Q.  Would it help you on the weekend, do you think, if it got harder, if scoring got more difficult?  Would that help you?  Would that give you an advantage in a U.S. Open type --
 
SE RI PAK:  You mean like more pressure? 
 

Q.  If it gets harder to score out there, other than low numbers.
 
SE RI PAK:  Harder.  Actually, I'm not sure. Sometimes we like hard, and that sometimes helps make a more better score.  And sometimes easy and -- but that makes more difficult.  Just like not that sure right now. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT