U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 3, 1999
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SE RI PAK:  I mean, today I feel like outside the golf course, feel comfortable when I play golf. And every shot that I'm doing, I'm thinking everything pretty strong and comfortable.  That's why I just -- it's not that much birdie chance today, but, you know I feel I like my putting.  Feel pretty confident when I hit the putt.  Before, other times, thinking too much.  Other time I miss.  But it's not that much different.  Just read the line; hit the putt.  Just other times like that. This way, I finish pretty good.


Q.  Se Ri, how did you putt today?

SE RI PAK:  Today, I feel like pretty solid, you know.  In the middle, long putt or short putt. Other times when I aim my hit, I didn't think that much.  Before other time, like too much thinking, you know, this break, that break, speed like that.  Today, I feel like just read the line and setup.  Not just hit, or if I make the putt pretty close to it, easy to make putt for birdie.  This way I get a good score.


Q.  Se Ri, with more attention, more pressure on you this year because you won last year, were you nervous today?

SE RI PAK:  No.  I mean, actually, I feel like -- feel like it's new tournament, you know.  From last year, 1999, it's year away.  I'm thinking -- anything remind -- my hat.  Feel like 1999, new season.  New year.  This way I feel like, you know, especially this tournament, feel like new.  This way, I don't feel pressure or nervous.  I just want to try to get the trophy again.  That's it.

SE RI PAK:  Yeah, especially this trophy.  I just really, really want it this year I want to get -- I just want to put my name again.


Q.  Se Ri, had you played against Grace before, and if so, when was last time you did?

SE RI PAK:  No.  This is -- actually this is first time.  Before she came here she was in junior, and I was a junior I played with her like one time, long time ago.

SE RI PAK:  This is first.  First time actually.


Q.  Here in the United States?

SE RI PAK:  Yeah.


Q.  Do you remember your first official LPGA tournament event?  You played with Kelli Kuehne in Orlando.  Do you remember that?

SE RI PAK:  Played with her?


Q.  Last year.  First tournament of the year.

SE RI PAK:  I don't know.  Actually, I can't remember.


Q.  What did you think when you saw the leaderboards with her name and 8-under?  Did that surprise you?

SE RI PAK:  No.  I mean it's possible, you know, like one player today, feel like me.  Like me, on the golf course, feel like pretty strong.  Every shot is -- feel pretty confident and solid and possible to make every putt.  This way, I mean, you know, it doesn't have any reason, like she is crazy today.  Just like, you know, she's a good player. That's why she make all the putt and make 8-under. That's pretty good, you know.  I mean, I try to do, too.  But crazy -- was pretty hard.


Q.  Could you tell us your impressions of the course and playing in the heat and the humidity today?

SE RI PAK:  Today I played one o'clock. Starting very hot you know.  And the golf course is wet.  Like sunny, steam -- feel like inside the sauna, you know.  Easy to sweat.  I didn't even know.  My face kind of was like -- looks like washing my face  already.  Feels like I bring my clothes in with sweat, all wet.  Even my caddie's clothes.  Sometimes the tee box, that's pretty much -- the sun is too high.  The weather is sticky and makes you sweat.  It's like all the time me and Grace Park were talking about the weather today.  God, today is very hot and we're trying to make like the fans.  But otherwise, pretty good.  Better than cold.  I don't like -- I don't like cold, because I don't like to wear too many clothes.  It's uncomfortable.  I hate that.  So actually it's pretty good.  It's nothing that bothers me.

SE RI PAK:  No.  Korean.  (Laughs).


Q.  I'd also ask your impression of the course and how it played?

SE RI PAK:  Actually, last year is very difficult golf course.  This year is better than from last year.  But still, still pretty hard.  Like back nine, lots of water.  And sometimes fewer holes -- like hitting my driver.  Especially almost like 15, 16, 17, 18, tee shot and second shot in green. Although, this golf course like have to -- have to think pretty smartly.  Other times, hit long drives; other time doesn't help.  You have to think very smart, every shot.  Not that much thinking.  Still works, but kind of smart play.


Q.  With all the low scores, does is it seem different from last year?  Last year -- this year it's totally different.  Does it seem like the U.S. Open?

SE RI PAK:  No, still --  still pretty hard. I mean, because you know, U.S. Open.  Not other golf course.  U.S. Open, the name sometimes makes more hard, you know.  Then second thing is golf course is all the time very difficult.  Then, you know, other time at PGA, normal tournament, greens move fast. Other times, the golf course is kind of special.
Difficult holes all the time.  So, you know, this way -- this U.S. Open is pretty difficult to get trophy.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT