U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 6, 1998
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
SE RI PAK:  Thank you. 
 
SE RI PAK:  I made birdie 11th hole, maybe four feet, a little downhill. 
 
SE RI PAK:  I use my 9-iron, then maybe right side pin, four feet.  I make the hole.  No. 12, second shot, I use my sand wedge, then just 8 yard, almost three feet.  Almost four feet, three feet. Then make that.  (see below).  Then hole No. 14, like -- no.  Hole No. 12, it is like almost six feet.  Right-to-left break.  Hole No. 14, is three feet.  I use my sand wedge.  Hole No. 12 I use my 5-iron then make on the green. 
 
SE RI PAK:  Yes, 5-iron, six feet, then I make birdie.  Hole No. 14, I use my sand wedge only three feet, so I make this is for birdie. 
 

Q.  She only played 12 once.
 
SE RI PAK:  My bogeys, hole No. 3, I hit my 8-iron, second shot.  My ball goes right edge; then I use my putting, but a little short, maybe three feet, I miss, my bogey.  On No. 8, I cannot make on green, so I use my sand wedge.  I chip it on almost three feet, two feet and a half and I missed, make bogey.  Hole No. 9, I use my 8-iron, right side tree -- I hit the right side tree; then maybe 20 feet almost.  Then make 3-putt.  Bogey.  Hole No. 15 I hit my driver, left the bunker, hit my 6-iron but a little big over the green.  So use my putting a little big -- maybe three feet, four feet, something.  Then I miss, make bogey.  Hole No. 18, it is -- I used my driver and left side in the water.  But I hit sand wedge the lay-up, then I use my 8-iron maybe six feet, but I cannot make that.  Make bogey. 
 
SE RI PAK:  That I am almost, I don't have chance anymore like almost I am lose already because she has hit the ball almost on the green.  But my ball is into the water no chance to make par.  I didn't give up, just made -- keep thinking, I just want to try because last hole, last chance, the last day, I just want to try something.  Then I know now how I play golf more than before, more -- getting more learn about the golf.  That is why I didn't give up, just keep going.  Play my game.  I do my best.  That is why 18 holes may be best score to me last day. 
 
SE RI PAK:  First time in my life (laughs). 
 

Q.  Did you think about taking a drop at 18 instead of playing from the water?
 
SE RI PAK:  Yeah. 
 

Q.  Why didn't you?
 
SE RI PAK:  First I get there, I saw my ball.  Then no chance to out.  Then I just keep thinking:  Maybe driver is more better, I didn't have chance anymore.  So I just want to try drop, but last day -- last day, last hole, I don't have chance.  So I want to try something.  So I just -- I didn't give up.  Almost I am lose anyway -- I think I am lose already because she is under the green.  I think she is onto the green.  Then I just -- ball in the water, no more make double-bogey anymore.  I didn't give up, just keep going. That is maybe more personal thinking like this, I didn't give up never ever because last chance.  So I have two -- I have to more try something, so I just keep thinking.  I just -- I am thinking it is new, more clear in my mind.  Then I just many times -- maybe that time, many times I am used to many thinking, trouble hit it, trouble hit it.  Then I keep thinking, me and my caddie, keep thinking, talking.  Then finally maybe I can hit that ball; that is why I go inside and I try.  First I get in the water; then I try my iron shot, but no chance, bad lie, because a big deep green the front side, then a big hill there, but that is why I just maybe -- maybe I cannot hit, so maybe few second I am thinking again.  Then I know the last chance for me, I said: Okay, I just try, last chance for me.  That is why I keep hit it, really perfect outside.  Then the shot is perfect too.  I use my 8-iron, perfect it feel good.  My putting feel like last one is bad, but anyway it is a good save. 
 

Q.  Could you describe for us how it feels to have won this tournament and also to have won two Majors this year? 
 
SE RI PAK:  First time I win McDonald's, that is the first major that I am really happy because I do my best every tournament, the same mind, same thinking.  But after I win the tournament and I play a few tournaments too, but not that much good, but some people thinking I am lucky, like look she is lucky for the win.  But my best every tournament, but every time bad luck, bad feeling, maybe the player like that.  But -- so, then I win U.S. Open, then now -- now I know about the play golf, then more how to, you know, control my mind.  Maybe this week is really best week for me.  I know I am feel more -- I feel more -- I have to know about the golf.  That is why really happy.  But some way -- 
 

Q.  When the putt went in you broke into tears.  You had some tears that you were wiping away when the putt went in. When you won at McDonald's, you didn't have any.  Why did you have the tears today?
 
SE RI PAK:  This week is really tough.  Almost I am lose; then I just want to -- almost I can win this tournament, almost I can lose too.  My mom and dad, they are here.  They watch me.  Then I do my best in this tournament sometimes I have really bad -- really tough win.  Long week, long day after we finish 18th hole, but we didn't finish, we don't know who win yet.  I know I win now.  Like it happens first time I cry in my life, like I win the tournament.  I don't know why I cry because I am really happy, that is why I cry. 
 

Q.  How hard mentally was it for you to play this round today?  You were down four strokes after five holes.  You missed those pars at 8 and 9, very short putts.  Did you feel like a cat with nine lives, just an up-and-down round today? Was it the hardest round you ever played?  How did it feel?
 
SE RI PAK:  Yeah, today, like really tough day, more tough day because I play with my same age, my friends, she is amateur and I am pro, then she starts really good.  I know she feel really good today, like first time really good and she shot everything perfect.  But like, I don't know, today sometime bad luck, sometime many up-and-down and my putting is bad, so like four stroke behind her, but I know -- I behind and she play good, but I didn't give up because I have many hole left.  We don't know that - after we finish 18th hole, so didn't give up.  I just keep doing.  I play my game, keep thinking, just control my mind.  That is why I win this tournament.  Point is I didn't give up last time -- last second. 
 

Q.  This is the first time your parents were in the United States to watch you play and you win the tournament?
 
SE RI PAK:  No.  My mom and dad, they watch me at a few tournaments already, but not a major.  Then they saw me first time I win.  That is why -- maybe that is why I cry  today.  That is why, my mom and dad here, they are really happy, I saw them. 
 

Q.  Has what you have done in the last three months surprised yourself?  You seem very composed up there.
 
SE RI PAK:  Really surprised in my life because this is the first year, I just start, every time I do my best, not that much good finish.  Then first time I win my -- first time I win the major.  That time really surprised myself because it is more confidence in myself and in my golf in a tournament.  Now I win the U.S. Open.  I am really champion, U.S. Open.  It is my trophy here.  Then now I know before I am practice really hard, non-stop because I want to be No. 1 in the world, the golf world, but now the dream is true, come to me, that is why, like, dream, really surprise in myself. 
 

Q.  Jenny said that she thought you were going to make your putt on the second playoff hole.  Did you think she was going to make her putt on 18?
 
SE RI PAK:  Yeah, I thought she make it, that putt because it feel good for her.  Then even though she is maybe -- I don't know, I feel good to her; then I make -- I thought she make that par-putt.  Then almost I lose.  Then later I know she can not make that, I have chance a little bit more. 
 

Q.  That kind of leads into my question.  Jenny felt that the tournament slipped away; her chance of winning slipped away when she didn't par 18.  Conversely, did you feel that more confident that maybe you were going to win the tournament after you managed to stay tied, after 18?
 
SE RI PAK:  Maybe that -- maybe that is last chance to her too because she -- I mean, to worry my ball that she has -- she win already and I lost.  That is why she lose this tournament because that is her last chance for winner, she get that trophy, then I don't have chance before, like my ball is already into the water.  But, anyway, maybe she win this tournament, I didn't upset myself.  I do my best this week; then I just try last chance.  I use my last chance.  But I don't know, that is why I win this tournament because she can not get the last chance to 18th hole.  That is why she lose, then I win because if she lose, then I win. 
 

Q.  Have you noticed a difference between an amateur and professional during today's game?
 
SE RI PAK:  I don't know.  Like before I am amateur that we can give up that easy, you know, that easy, then you can do anything, you know, I can do it later, something, we can give up easy for golf for everything.  But I know the professional now then like more -- like more feel more getting more -- more better and better.  I know more about the golf now than maybe -- that is why I control my mind -  professional, we control our mind.  We didn't give up, never, ever, keep doing, play my game.  That is maybe big difference in amateur and professional. 
 

Q.  Do you think you are the No. 1 player in the world now?
 
SE RI PAK:  No, not yet (laughs) because I am start, then I have many years left.  So, not now.  I am starting, but good start now. 
 

Q.  Are you going to Toledo this week?
 
SE RI PAK:  Yes. 
 

Q.  Why?
 
SE RI PAK:  Because it is tournament.  I have many tournament left and I have many years left, so, just keep doing and doing and then later I know about the golf, learn about the golf. 
 

Q.  Kind of along those same lines, in the information packet that Steven handed out, it said you wanted to win your first Major in 2006.  Are you ahead of schedule?
 
SE RI PAK:  That much quick because of my sponsor, they are thinking five years later.  Then that time I win something -- not like big major, just like few tournaments like the start, but now I think year is -- first year I am just start, when I win big tournament two times already, that is why my sponsor and everyone is like surprised like they just thinking about like that winner now, just she start now, beginning now, she win later, they get relaxed.  But now I win, then big tournament -- first time I win major, my sponsor, they like really surprised.  Now I win another big tournament and now they are maybe big change, my sponsor; maybe they get me more money or -- (laughter) -- or something. 
 
SE RI PAK:  Yeah, but I don't want like only check, you know, I just want only real trophy.  That is my best. 
 

Q.  How do you feel that you have been treated by the American fans and how important is it for you to be accepted by the American golf fans?
 
SE RI PAK:  I don't know.  I feel today many gallery, they just only:  Go, Jenny, keep doing, keep doing,.  But I know that that happened because like American, they just want to play good player, American player, not another player like Asian or Japan.  Maybe American player come to Korea and Japan, it is the same.  Like Japanese people, they like big loud to Japanese player like American players.  I know that happen.  Some people, they want to play good, they want me to play good, I know.  That is why I am more happy, then they see me, then they watch me.  Then they make me big loud, more exciting.  I didn't think about just  every people they just:  Go Jenny, go Jenny.  I keep playing my games.  I know they want win to Jenny.  But I didn't give up.  Just I just play my game.  I know that happened, that is why. 
 

Q.  You want two consecutive Majors.  If you win maybe third one and fourth one, you would be achieving Grand Slam, you know, four consecutive -- at least not in the same year, but if you keep winning Majors, you will be winning sort of a Grand Slam.  Is that your dream or have you ever thought of it?
 
SE RI PAK:  (laughs) I don't know -- maybe I can win four Majors.  Then I win already four Majors, then really big happen my life, big happy for my life.  But that is not easy.  But I want to win every tournament even though small tournament or big tournament, I do my best, just I play tournament, then I just play my game.  That is my goal.  I don't want like to -- I just only -- I don't want to win just two Majors, I want to big smaller one, bigger one like this. I just want to win every tournament, you know. 
 

Q.  You talked about the crowd pulling for Jenny, but on 18 when you finally made your decision you took your shoes off, did you hear the crowd cheering for you and what were you thinking when you heard that?
 
SE RI PAK:  Maybe many -- I just took my shoes, my socks, I just go into the water, maybe that time, many people, they just like big -- many make big loud, but I was really happy, maybe they are exciting and really happy.  That is why I didn't give up.  I just want to keep trying.  That is why I win this tournament, maybe I just at that time give up; then I just lose already, I am not here, maybe Jenny she is here.  Then I just go home, then watching TV, just check, only money.  But, I want to get my trophy, but I cannot.  I didn't give up.  Just keep doing and keep trying, then I know many people, they just exciting.  They watch me.  That is why I win this tournament.  I didn't give up before. 
 

Q.  After you hit the ball out of the water you said you hit 8-iron to the green?
 
SE RI PAK:  Yeah, 8-iron. 
 

Q.  Do you remember what your yardage was?
 
SE RI PAK:  138. 
 

Q.  How is your dog?
 
SE RI PAK:  I didn't see her for three days already.  I just want to see her so much.  Then she is like -- she is really healthy, but like she is baby, so that is why I have to be careful her.  But I just want to play with her.  She is so fun because she is baby, everything is like she wants to play bite, sometime I sleep with her, then she bite my ear.  When she is boring, then she bite my nose, ear, hair, keep playing.  But I want to see her, I am really happy.  
 

Q.  What is her name?
 
SE RI PAK:  Happy. 
 

Q.  What is your doing's name?
 
SE RI PAK:  Happy is my dog's name.  I want her to be whole life happy, that is why her name is Happy. 
 

Q.  Is she sick?
 
VOICE:  Upper respiratory. 
 
SE RI PAK:  Actually I know him two years later.  At that time he went Korea because of some summer champion LPGA tournament in Korea.  At that time he caddie for Brian Skinner and I saw him first time really big guy, like really strong, voice like tough, you know, I scary him.  But later my first manager, then he know him, they talked a little bit about like I will be here later, something, I play United States, something or they are talking -- maybe they are meeting a little bit.  Then just he said he want to caddie for me.  I say:  Okay, then I -- first time he caddied for last year U.S. Open few tournaments.  Then he is really -- he is really nice guy.  Like he is like -- feel more -- his age is 44, but like he is like -- sometime he feel like my father, really comfortable.  He make me sometime happy, really comfortable.  That is why he is really good. 
 

Q.  After this week you have gained a lot of fans here; especially in Wisconsin.  How would you feel about coming back in Wisconsin to play another tournament here?
 
SE RI PAK:  Actually I didn't saw before this much gallery like, wow, really big gallery.  Then maybe we have tournament here and I just want to come here and play because many gallery, they make big loud, really exciting another tournament because of big, gallery really fun.  I want to play here too again. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT