U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 5, 1998
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
SE RI PAK:  Hole No. 3, I hit my driver, ball goes left, so big deep rough.  So hit my 5-iron, maybe that is big mistake, you cannot hit 5-iron there.  Anyway, I hit my 5-iron, ball goes left again.  Then left, way, way down left side.  So I hit my A-wedge the lay-up, ball goes right side deep left again.  Then I hit my -- I used my sand wedge. Then a little over the greens, so I make -- I use my putting, 2-putt, that is why I make double-bogey.  Then hole No. 4, I hit 3 food, fairway, middle of the fairway.  I hit my pitching wedge because a little downwind, but ball goes a little short over the green, so use my sand wedge.  Then maybe six feet, something, par-putt.  I missed so I make bogey. 
 
SE RI PAK:  Hole No. 7, hit my driver, fairway. Then I hit my -- I use my 7-iron, perfect shot, but green is too firm that is why over the green left side deep rough again.  I use my sand wedge maybe six feet again, five, six feet short of the hole.  So miss again, so make bogey.  Hole No. 9 I use my 3-wood, ball goes middle of the bunker left, behind -- before the bunker, and I use my 8-iron into the water.  I dropped, then I use my A-wedge, maybe three feet -- three feet, like I make bogey. 
 
SE RI PAK:  No. 14, I use my 3-wood.  Then I use my pitching wedge second shot, maybe six feet, seven feet a little uphill, left, right lie, so make birdie.  Hole No. 17, I use my 6-iron, ball goes right side rough, a little big, so maybe four feet, a little downhill, so missed, make bogey. 
 
SE RI PAK:  Like -- maybe eight feet, nine feet, something like this. 
 
SE RI PAK:  I don't know, I play a playoff before in Korea many time, but different, we just playoff, two hole, three hole, one hole, we can finish.  But tomorrow I play 18th hole again.  Well, like tomorrow maybe practice round feel because like amateur, like I don't know, but she is my age, same age for me, that is why maybe we are like looks like friends, like more close, like practice round feel, like this. 
 

Q.  This week the course was just tremendous and it had a lot of veteran season players.  Do you have any explanation as to how the rookie and the amateur are able to have the lead now going into a 18-hole playoff?  It is because the two of you maybe feel less pressure not being the named players that are on the board?
 
SE RI PAK:  Like I am happy because my same age play, like we can play playoff tomorrow the first time.  Then maybe we just -- I meet her tomorrow first time maybe, so maybe tomorrow feel like practice round, we are more comfortable on the golf course like this. 
 

Q.  The putt on 18, did you see -- did it do what you thought it was going to do?  Did you miss-hit it or I just want to know your thoughts, whether it was going in or not. Also on No. 9, before you hit the ball in the water, you were unsure about the clubs.  I wanted to know which club you were thinking about and what happened on that shot.
 
SE RI PAK:  Yeah, like hole No. 9, like not a bad -- bad lie, deep rough, then I use just like -- I am thinking first time maybe lay-up or I just go because last day I don't have chance anymore.  That is why I just like, okay, I go. Then I use my -- I wanted to use my 9-iron, but like maybe a little short because anyway short because deep rough and bad lie.  But I want to try.  So I just use 9-iron.  Then I try, but like maybe short, so changed my clubs, so I use my 8-iron, but anyway short inside the water.  So I didn't get mad because last hole I try many chance -- I have to try, the last hole, the last day, then hole No. 18, I know what happened, I make that one.  But, I don't want to thinking because I don't know I make it or not, but I try.  Every time I play my game, golf is like this, too difficult so.... 
 

Q.  You have gone to the Qualifying School.  You have won tournaments in Korea.  You have won a major here.  Do you feel you have an advantage tomorrow with a lot of playing experience over your amateur partner?
 
SE RI PAK:  I don't know like -- (laughs) somebody told me anyway I lose but I can keep my checks.  I don't want money, but I want the trophy, so tomorrow we don't know,  maybe she can win, but I can win.  I do my best tomorrow, the same like same play, same thinking like this.  So I want to play tomorrow, like practice-round feel, like more comfortable like this, the same age; looks like we are friends.  So maybe tomorrow will look good because the same age and playing may be exciting tomorrow. 
 

Q.  Se Ri, when you had that trouble at 3 and then I think you made bogey again at 4 and then you had the problem at 9, did you feel like the tournament was getting away; that your chances were running out to get back into the tournament?
 
SE RI PAK:  No, because I didn't finish yet -- I know before I have many trouble, many big number, many big, like, not good lie, but I have many hole left.  That is why I do my best, I play -- keep going, I just want to play; then I try last day, maybe I have chance.  That is why I try and try.  That is why maybe better the back 9, better than front 9. 
 

Q.  What do you think are the most challenging things about this course, in particular?
 
SE RI PAK:  First like green.  Then big rough, then sometime we hit many driver, but not that much, you know, that much like many landed like deep rough any time, like many bunker, many water.  So that is why -- I don't know, everything is difficult like especially not in one time, everything is difficult iron shots, green, driver, everything. 
 

Q.  On the third hole did you consider taking a drop before you hit out of the slope down there when you were in trouble and what club did you hit coming out of there?
 
SE RI PAK:  Yeah, I thinking maybe I can drop a more good lie, I can make more low score.  But maybe not that much it help like that one too.  So maybe I hit maybe same -- anyway just -- any I don't have chance, bad lie; then the green, everything is bad.  I try and I just want to -- double bogey.  I am thinking this is double bogey; this is best score with that lie, so that is like my mind is more comfortable, I make double bogey, so like, you know, golf is like this. 
 

Q.  What club did you hit?
 
SE RI PAK:  A wedge. 
 
SE RI PAK:  Yeah, I saw many times because they -- I don't know, today many Korean people is there, so I was more happy, you know, many Korean people they come.  Maybe long way drive, but they come and see me then they said:  Keep going, yeah, like this.  Really happy, they really made me --  help me. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT