U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 4, 1998
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SE RI PAK:  No, that is really tough lie, so just, you know, it happens, just on golf course like this.  I am not mad.

SE RI PAK:  Hole No. 1 bogey because I hit 3-wood, too short ball goes right side, the second shot right side rough, but I hit my pitching wedge.  Then I hit the tree again, maybe 40 yard, that is approach, shot short of the green, so I chip it -- like easy bogey, fall in 1-putt.  Hole No. 2, I made birdie, par 5.  I hit --  I use my 3-wood almost get into the green, so maybe 20 yard to the pin.  I use my pitching wedge, so I maybe just like one feet, make birdie.  Then hole No. 7 I use my 3-wood second shot, because into the wind.  Then my ball goes left side, a little rough. But I use my A-wedge a little short, maybe six feet.  A little short that is why I miss, for bogey.  Hole No. 10, big number today.  I missed second shot.  I use my 3-wood, ball goes left, then left side bunker but like really tough lie, so I hit my 9-iron, then little short of the green, so left side bunker again.  I use my sand wedge.  Then I make 3-putt, like maybe seven feet, something.  Eight, nine feet, I 3-putt.  That is why I double bogey.  Then on No. 13 like 20 feet a little downhill.  My first putt like little big, then maybe two, three -- four feet, three feet, I missed the 3-putt.  Hole No. 14 I use my sand wedge; then downhill maybe ten feet, I make the birdie.  The hole No. 18 my second shot cannot make on green.  So right edge, my putting maybe five feet short.  I missed 3-putt again to make bogey.

SE RI PAK:  18, like wind, into wind, but like wind like right-to-left, big wind.  So maybe I have to hit right side better than left side.  So I hit 5-wood like maybe  little right side, but maybe my tempo is slow; that is why my ball goes more right side.  I didn't think about the shot ball left side go into water.

SE RI PAK:  No.

SE RI PAK:  Because today, this golf course is too difficult golf course, but today is really windy.  Then today pin position like more difficult than on other day.  That is why today it is really tough day.  Cannot make many birdies. So we cannot -- par 2 is really tough day today.

SE RI PAK:  I am really happy because big tournament, I still leader, and I played well on a difficult course, so I am really, really happy.

SE RI PAK:  Yeah, actually after I win McDonald's then now more confidence in myself, then confidence in my play games, the whole tournament, that is why I still play better, better, you know.


Q.  You said yesterday that you don't get nervous.  Did you ever get nervous today?

SE RI PAK:  No, I don't have nervous (laughs).


Q.  Does your heart beat faster at certain times?  Do you think more about the shots, anything like that?

SE RI PAK:  Yeah, like today is really windy, you know, then today pin -- like pin position, like more difficult, many hillside, so I have too many more thinking than other day because the wind is changing like downwind, so I use my -- take my clubs, but I just stand by like more into the wind is changed, maybe that is why today more and more thinking, more tough day than other -- really tough day than another day.


Q.  There were a few lead changes today, you know, you dropped off from the lead, else became leader, at least two or three times.  Did you know what was going on?  Did you feel maybe disheartened maybe things are going bad for me?

SE RI PAK:  No, maybe that -- maybe this is golf. We don't know when we can be top or we can be more under.  So like -- I didn't think about leader now or not.  Just every time I play my games, then I don't want to think about like that.  So just like -- 


Q.  As leader going into tomorrow, would you prefer another very, very difficult day like this one or a day when perhaps scores might be a little lower?

SE RI PAK:  I don't know.  I am not sure.  Like this golf course like really difficult.  Maybe tomorrow like weather like this then maybe even par is like best score tomorrow.  I think like this.


Q.  What kind of strategy did your dad give you today? I saw him out on the putting green, he was talking to you.

SE RI PAK:  My dad?  My dad like little, I don't know -- my putting is like little like slow, then to sometimes a little big stroke, then sometimes too much like hit from.  So he teaching many times like I cannot -- I didn't feel -- I cannot feel, but my dad, he know everything.  He know me -- maybe -- he know -- maybe he know me than David, my teacher, because he teacher long, long time.  He is my first teacher, then now second teacher is David Leadbetter, that is why he know me, than David.

SE RI PAK:  Yeah, sometimes, some way, because like he is my dad.  Then he teach a long time, then David, so he know David, he cannot find something, but my dad, he can find something.


Q.  Could you tell us your thoughts after the two, 3-putts, did that shake your confidence just a little bit?

SE RI PAK:  Yeah, like (laughs) a little -- too little time shaking because very windy, I mean, on the green, maybe a little short putt, but windy like many -- wind is really strong today so like my tempo is more slowly sometime.  That is why I make many 3-putts today.  Then many miss short putts too because of many windy, everything, that is why today is tough day.


Q.  Do you watch the leaderboards?  Did you look and will you look tomorrow?

SE RI PAK:  No, just -- sometime because that leaderboard is really big, I saw some way, but I can see it because it is big.  But I didn't see that much.  Sometimes, no.


Q.  Do you try not to look?

SE RI PAK:  No, I don't want to look then -- I can look is fine, but I have one day left, so we don't know when we change, like that is why I don't want to think who is the leader, who is scoring best, like, not like this.


Q.  Is there someone that you think you might be worried about tomorrow?  Is there anyone of your opponents who you think might have the best chance to win other than yourself?

SE RI PAK:  I don't know.  Golfers, we don't know. You don't know tomorrow.  After we finish, that time we know who.  That is perfect answer. 


Q.  Getting back to the weather, I understand there will be much less wind tomorrow, the temperature about 70 degrees, not much wind, maybe 15 miles per hour.  Today it was like up to 25.  Will that favor your chances of retaining victory?

SE RI PAK:  Maybe every players make chance.  They have chance because golfers, we don't know when, one day who some player make 10-under, 7-under, so, I told you like after we finish, then we know that who will.

SE RI PAK:  I don't know.  Maybe now like almost same like one, two stroke behind, like this.  That is why many players have chance too.

SE RI PAK:  I cannot remember, but we have sometime, but more difficult because of this golf course, that is why more and more -- like more feel more strong wind like this.


Q.  I know for a long time it has been your goal to one day be the No. 1 player.  If you were to win back-to-back major championships, are you there at that point?

SE RI PAK:  Yeah, every time I still -- I don't want to change my mind like, you know, because every -- I have many times, many years, many years to play, that is why every time I want on top list, then I want to be like Nancy Lopez like smiling face, good memory on other people.  I don't want to change my mind, every time I do my best, whole golf tournament.


Q.  You called this a very difficult golf course.  What must you do tomorrow to beat the golf course?

SE RI PAK:  I don't know, we have to, more smart play and more thinking about the golf course tomorrow because tomorrow is last night, we don't have chance, so more thinking, more smart play, then maybe we can play better than another day, then good finish, we can finish a good finish, there is just only smart play, like maybe we don't have to push our like self, just play games, enjoy the game because this golf course is too difficult.  We don't have thinking about, you know, like push.  Just do our best and maybe best score tomorrow.


Q.  Are you the most famous athlete in Korea?

SE RI PAK:  Yes.  Maybe more, more better than before.  Maybe getting more and more and more.  I am not sure but I feel that.

SE RI PAK:  Yeah, but, you know --

SE RI PAK:  Maybe her golf game is like there every time, that is -- I feel that like more every time you tied, who lose, up-and-down, but that is maybe golf game and, like, it is no more like golf game, so I can feel, but not that much different.

SE RI PAK:  (smiling) Yeah, I saw -- because she is my front, like front team, I saw like -- I didn't saw, but like big loud every time, I know like some -- she is playing good now, but it is good because some players play good and maybe she can win, play better, she played better than me then she can win, you know, that is why.


Q.  I noticed some Disney characters for your club covers.  Do you go there very often?  It is a place you go?

SE RI PAK:  No, I don't have time to go there that much.  But it was sometimes when I have a day off and I have time, then every time I just buy something, like something cute, like something pretty like -- (laughs) that is why I have many cartoon pictures, like key chain like this.  Every time I buy like that one.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT