U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 3, 1998
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SE RI PAK:  No. 3, I use 7-iron.

SE RI PAK:  No. 3 I use 7-iron, then maybe a little down hill, maybe twelve feet.

SE RI PAK:  No. 6, I use 7-iron again.

SE RI PAK:  Like almost ten feet, almost same putt as -- twelve feet or something.

SE RI PAK:  My pitching wedge.  Then maybe 8, 9 feet.


Q.  Bogeys.

SE RI PAK:  I made bogey on No. 11.  Hit driver a little left.  I hit my -- use my pitching wedge, hit the tree a little bit, so I use my approach shot a little big, so I misted the par-putt, I make bogey.  Then hole No. 13, I use my 9-iron.  Then I make 3-putt, maybe 15 feet.


Q.  Could you talk about how it feels to lead this major, assuming Liselotte doesn't birdie 18 after two rounds?

SE RI PAK:  Actually not that much different because I have two days left, so I don't want to push myself.  That is why I just, like, same -- I like many people loud, they watch me.  They feel great, but I have two days left.  So, I don't know.


Q.  Do you enjoy playing challenging courses and, if so, why?  Do you enjoy playing tough courses like this?

SE RI PAK:  Oh, yeah, I am really enjoy, I play this course.  I enjoy, I play U.S. Open, then I play -- well, that is why I am happy.  But this time before, just like I am thinking a lot, but this course more thinking, more smart play; then we have too many thinking, like how can you play; how can you hit a shot.  So we have too many headaches later.


Q.  So many people have made big numbers during the rounds and you have only made three bogeys in two days, I believe.  What has been the best part of your game for the first two days here? 

SE RI PAK:  It is two day finish, but maybe my iron shots feel good; that is why not that much big trouble.  Then my putting feel well; that is why not that -- I don't have that big number.  Every time I play the smart play, every time I am thinking a lot, that is why I didn't -- this course is like, maybe we miss one shot, then really we have -- we are really difficult to save par, bogey.  That much difficult this course is.  So I don't want to make that much trouble. So every time I am thinking a lot and I just play like I use -- maybe I use many 3-wood, like 3-wood, 5-wood, sometimes iron, lay-up, like this.  That is why I don't have that big number.


Q.  What would winning a U.S. Open mean to you?

SE RI PAK:  Great tournament, big tournament, top players play this U.S. Open. , I play last year too, but this is more special because I pass Q-School.  This is first year, then I play U.S. Open, then I play real well.  So maybe this tournament is really best year for me.


Q.  Before you played at Pumpkin Ridge last year, had you ever seen a U.S. Women's Open on television and what are your memories about this tournament?

SE RI PAK:  Actually I didn't -- yeah, I saw U.S. Open, but I didn't see that much women's.  I saw PGA like many tournament, but before I have been in Korea at that time, I don't have to watch LPGA tournaments, so -- I know this U.S. Open is big, big major, great players play, but maybe, you know, every time PGA, like more bigger than LPGA is why I cannot see that much in Korea.


Q.  You said you play well in front of big crowds.  Why do you play well in front of big crowds?  What does it do for your game?

SE RI PAK:  It is more -- I don't know -- it feels better because many people, they see me then, they watch me, my play.  Then they make big loud, like few more fun, like exciting.  That is why I can play more good.

SE RI PAK:  Yeah, I was --

SE RI PAK:  The threadmill like 100 meter.

SE RI PAK:  No, actually not this much like --


Q.  Is dealing with this and dealing with the English the hardest part -- have been the hardest part of your day today, dealing with the English and talking to reporters, is this difficult with the language? 

SE RI PAK:  First time I came here, I cannot speak not this much.  Every time I practice, then I take a lesson and I am talking to my friends and players, so now not that much difficult.  This is more help for me, I can understand more, I can talk a different way.  It is not that much difficult.

SE RI PAK:  No.


Q.  Do you feel the pressure when you get up?  Are you nervous on the first tee and are you going to be nervous tomorrow?

SE RI PAK:  No.  I don't -- before I don't have nervous before, long time, now the same, just every time I play my game, I just saw many people in fairway, golf course, and more feel better.  I don't have nervous.


Q.  With these days' record crowds, can you feel that it is a record crowd or is it just -- is a crowd a crowd?


Q.  Can we go back to that nervous thing.  Why are you not nervous?  Most players who sit up there in this sport always admit to being nervous.  Why no nerves?

SE RI PAK:  I think I don't have to nervous in my game, then that is not help for me.  That is maybe more hurt me.  That is why I don't want to feel nervous.  I don't want to -- I don't want to think that I am nervous like this. Just I am thinking more comfortable, then many people, they see me and I make more comfortable.  I am thinking then I make myself more easy, more comfortable, more feel better, everything, that is why I don't have nervous.


Q.  Same subject.  Can you name anything that does make you nervous even if it is just away from the golf course?

SE RI PAK:  Not in golf course?


Q.  Anything.

SE RI PAK:  Just -- no, sometimes I just go out maybe with my friends or some people.  Then some people they saw me, maybe they looking at me and I saw their eyes and at that time they make me more different story, like make fun story, sometime I -- these people outside -- different way --


Q.  Are you more comfortable leading a major because you have won a major?

SE RI PAK:  Yeah, maybe that is a little help, more confidence in myself now and I play well now.  I want to play well every tournament, but now big tournament I play, I start, many top players, that is why it is more confidence.


Q.  People in the United States are getting to know  you.  Is it expected back home that you be leading or in contention of a big tournament like this?

SE RI PAK:  Yeah, same -- every time same in Korea like this, but not this much big tournament like, you know, but almost same like this.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT