U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 2, 1998
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
SE RI PAK:  Today, like comfortable than, I think a lot before practice round, many miss shots, like many not good shot.  I think it went like that.  So I am thinking like this - today I am thinking about last time I practice, I missed this one, so many, maybe, many like cost -- like more many thinking, like many focus, more concentrate and everything.  That is why I played today real good. 
 
SE RI PAK:  Really difficult.  But I played this morning, so not that much wind, so maybe this is more help. Green like -- green is too difficult, cannot sometime -- I cannot read them, like some right-to-left, and my ball goes left-to-right.  Too many like shaking like this. 
 
SE RI PAK:  First hole birdie, I hit pitching wedge, then maybe four, maybe four feet, I make that.  Then hole No. 3, I hit a 9-iron again, the big rough, like 15 feet, so I make it.  Hole No. 6, par 3, I made birdie, like maybe three feet. 
 
SE RI PAK:  8-iron.  Three feet.  Hole No. 7 I hit second shot like 6-iron, but I make three feet -- I mean, like maybe 20 feet downhill.  I hit first putt like little front, so maybe two feet, I make like -- two feet, short putt like from 2; that is why I made 3-putt at that time. 
 
SE RI PAK:  Yes, downhill and second putt was about two feet. 
 
SE RI PAK:  No. 
 
SE RI PAK:  Yes. 
 
SE RI PAK:  (laughs) 
 
SE RI PAK:  Hole No. 12 like five feet downhill, that one is par-putt, but like little difficult to read the lie.  That one is really difficult too. 
 
SE RI PAK:  I miss like front edge, a little short. 
 
SE RI PAK:  I used my putter. 
 
SE RI PAK:  Yes. 
 
SE RI PAK:  Yes. 
 

Q.  You are 20 years old.  It is your first year on the LPGA and you have already won one major.  Can you believe what is happening to you, how well you are playing?
 
SE RI PAK:  I don't know, but every time I do my best all tournament then, I don't know, I just like feel more big tournament, like feel more comfortable than like, I don't know, what is going like big tournament, but every time I do my best.  So like -- I don't know (laughs). 
 
SE RI PAK:  Yeah, like more comfortable. 
 
SE RI PAK:  Yes. 
 
SE RI PAK:  Yeah, a lot of people, I like many people, they watch me, then like big loud, I like that one. 
 

Q.  This is just your second Open so this was only your fifth round of golf in an Open and yet three of those five rounds have been in the 60s so you seem very relaxed.  Do you just like U.S. Open courses?
 
SE RI PAK:  No, I just -- I don't know, course is too difficult, I cannot tell like this course.  I like, that, more comfortable, not really.  Just like thinking a lot and many practice, many thinking, like, you know, that one like this, every time. 
 

Q.  Could you talk about what your win at the McDonald's LPGA did for your confidence and just playing in a major like that and winning.
 
SE RI PAK:  After win McDonald's Championship, but not that much different, just only many people now, many people, they know me.  Then now a little confidence in myself, more than before.  Now I just starting to see the first year for me, so every time like to do my best.  I saw many top-10 players, top players, that is why many like -- I  have to learn more about the golf, so just like -- like not that much different in thinking. 
 

Q.  Could you talk about how the LPGA Championship changed your life and what it did as far as you being known in Korea?  Are you like much bigger now than you were before you won that tournament?
 
SE RI PAK:  Yeah, much, much bigger than Korean tournament, but I think like many top players play in United States than maybe -- best players are here, so a lot of time, Korean, the nation, like all the players, all of them same players like there, but this country, this country is big. But strong player, top players are here.  I want to be like top players like here. 
 
SE RI PAK:  Yes, I think so like more than before. 
 
SE RI PAK:  No, not yet.  Every week is tournament, I have no time to go back. 
 
SE RI PAK:  Yes, I think so. 
 

Q.  Is this the first time you played with your parents here in the United States watching you and, if so, or if not, what is it like playing in front of your parents in the United States?
 
SE RI PAK:  Like more comfortable because my mom and dad, they watch me all the time in Korea I have tournament, so sometime I miss my mom and dad and when I play.  Maybe they watch me, then I play more better - sometime I am thinking like that.  But my mom and dad, they are here, they watch me, I know what they are thinking, so, maybe more fun, or more comfortable.  I like that. 
 
SE RI PAK:  Yes. 
 
SE RI PAK:  No, just before my dad, my mom, they watched me in Hawaii, then my mom and -- my dad at that time just go back to Korea and my mom, she watched me in Phoenix. 
 
SE RI PAK:  Thank you. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT