U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 1, 1998
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SE RI PAK: Yeah, at that time, that week is like more comfortable that I win a big tournament and after just  -- after a week off, I was busy with many interviews, many phone calls, everything, so now maybe more confidence in myself, so I am more happy that I enjoy my golf more.

SE RI PAK: Every tournament is like same routine, every week.  I do my best and every time like top list, finished like this is my best week in this year goal like top 10, so this week seem to just -- I want to top list finish, top 10, so, yeah.

SE RI PAK: In some way a little help, but long driver and long hitters, it help more, but more perfect shot, good putting, good feeling like everything is like comfortable, my shots, and every hole is like difficult.  So I don't know.  Maybe I am not that much help with long shot.

SE RI PAK: Yeah.

SE RI PAK: First thing is my teacher like David Leadbetter live in Orlando.  That is why I live there.  Then actually I live -- first time I feel like more quiet and I can practice in golf, that is why I went to live there.

SE RI PAK: One year, six months. 

SE RI PAK: Actually I just play Korea, then I just get here.  Like many players, like more strong.  There are more top players and more different condition golf courses and more speed.  Everything is more new than -- that is why -- not that much difficult, but many players like top ranked players, so I feel like I come to more strong and more confident shot.

SE RI PAK: Yeah.  Because you have many players. Like best players are here; that is why it is different than other country.


Q.  You are kind of a national hero in Korea, especially since your victory here.  What does that feel like to you?

SE RI PAK: Many time win in Korea, so I didn't feel like more different, like same feeling, but now I am here, if I win, and I win after many -- actually many people know me, more than before.  That is a little different.  But nothing much that is different.


Q.  Who are your sport role models and why?

SE RI PAK: Actually I like to be like Nancy Lopez because she is every time smiling face, smiling, nice to people, yeah.  She is like really good player, but even in some way like people a little more like friendly, like, yeah, I want to be like this.  I want to play good, but one way I want to be like that, every time smiling face, nice to people, helping people.  They remember me, my face.

SE RI PAK: Yeah, I play in McDonald's, the first rounds, that is why I played good.


Q.  What would it mean to golf in Korea if you were to win the U.S. Open here?

SE RI PAK: I am not sure.  I don't know that. Maybe.  I don't know how to answer that.

SE RI PAK: After winning McDonald's there are many children, many people start golf, but maybe if I win this U.S. Open Champion then maybe more people.  Maybe they not play golf, even though normal people maybe they know me, and they want to watch me maybe more than -- more than before.


Q.  Could you please give me your opinion of this course here?

SE RI PAK: I just practice two times, yesterday and  today.  But that green is like, I don't know, different than other courses.  Every week is new for me.  But this course is like every green speed, the green undulation, the fairway, the big rough, everything is too difficult.  So many -- maybe I have to do more thinking, more smart-play like, yeah, maybe this week is more smart-play, many, many help me like this.


Q.  Can you guess the winning score here this week?

SE RI PAK: I don't know.  I am not sure.  Maybe we play maybe par play, like even.  This maybe -- I think even like four day even is maybe top 10 list.  I think so.  Much different course; that is why I am not sure how many under.


Q.  How often do you get a chance to see your parents and how have you dealt with the isolation from family and friends from Korea?

SE RI PAK: Actually, I cannot see my mom and dad that much.  Every week, every time I talk on the phone and my mom and dad came to like big tournament, U.S. Open, like major or sometime like small tournament.  But sometime I miss my mom and dad, my sister, my friends.  But I don't have time to do that much, I use time every week is in tournament.  I have to do something, many things, practice, everything.  So that is why I forgot something about my friend, like maybe we  -- maybe I miss my mom and dad, but after I play a tournament then I forgot my family, like I just think about golf.  (laughs)

SE RI PAK: My mom, she came Arizona, like Phoenix, but my dad, I saw him like February in Hawaii Open.  Maybe four months, I cannot see my dad and my mom.


Q.  Were you a little worried about how you would do when you came over to the Tour in this country?

SE RI PAK: No, never.  I just -- because I am start and I have to more learn about the golf and I am just beginning, so I have to see many golf courses, many players. So just every time I do my best and one day I will be No. 1 player.  So I don't think about worry about this course being difficult.  I didn't know this many players, no.  No.


Q.  What are your goals for your career having already won one major?

SE RI PAK: My goal, 1998, my goal like top list, top 10 is my goal this year.  Then later like looks like Nancy Lopez, like, you know, I like face smile, every time nice to people, that is my goal.  I want to be like Nancy Lopez, like the best top player, every time looking good, everything is perfect.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT