KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
April 3, 2014
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Good afternoon, everyone.   We'd like to welcome Se Ri Pak into the interview room.   Se Ri, a great 5‑under par round today.   Actually ties your low round at this event.   67.   Take me through the day out there.   What was working really well for you? 
SE RI PAK:   Well, if the scores are low, everything's working well, so actually not particular shot.   But it really was just a solid round today.   Fairways greens always good, always playing for the majors.   The greens got a little firmer, but I got pretty good distance control which helps a lot.   I had a lot of opportunities, missed some putts, but still I'm making great putts too.   So overall today was a really, really great and easy day.

Q.   The conditions seemed to be perfect for scoring.   How different were they today compared to some of the previous days? 
SE RI PAK:   Actually the greens got firmer than the last couple of days when we practiced.   Then, of course, the last couple days have been so windy it's been pretty hard to make a decision what to play, how to play, how to make par.   But what has been perfect helped for such a great day, and fairways greens were in great conditions.   And everybody had a great round, no doubt.
KELLY THESIER:   You have a lot of experience in winning major championships.   But this is one of those majors that's so far eluded you.   What would it mean for you to be able to take home a victory here at the Kraft Nabisco? 
SE RI PAK:   This means a lot to me.   The last 17 years I'm waiting for one major to get my own career grand slam, so that's hard.   I mean, every single year I crossed this week.   I have always high expectations trying to win so badly and trying to get my own grand slam, which that is not easy.   It's not easy to get overall, but every single time same thing.   It gives me same thing week to week, year to year, same thing.   Just trying to not think about it just makes me a lot of things going in my head. 
But this year, I don't know why.   Just maybe the last couple years when I had pretty much all cleared my mind, and out here I was trying to enjoy as much as I could.   And this week the whole family is in town, so it makes me even more relaxed out there.   My dad and friends out here just makes me not too much think about the way I'm really trying to do right now this week.   So that helps a lot. 
So I said, just no matter what, on Sunday I want one thing goal every year before I retire I'm trying to get this event at least once.   So always bring great expectations, but we'll see.   I just do my best, and like today, just go out and enjoy as I could and play as well as I could.   So then Sunday will happen.
KELLY THESIER:   You say whole family.   How many family members do you have here this week? 
SE RI PAK:   My mom and dad, two sisters and my 5 years niece.   She just makes me‑‑ yeah, it's a lot of work, but it makes me fun.

Q.   You haven't won here, but you have played well here.   I think you've been in the top 20 somehow like 12 times and then the Top 10.   What's stopped you from winning here when you've played well? 
SE RI PAK:   I don't know.   I mean, I think I knew really, really giving myself to pressure heading into this week each time.   Because I said I just‑‑ first my goal was trying to get to the Hall of Fame, which is the biggest goal I have before I moved to the U.S.   Then everything I've done, everything I make all my goals.   But one thing, the second thing is to have grand slam, my own career grand slam.   It's always so close, and then, you know, just one‑‑ always one‑‑ it's not two, not three, just at the last minute it's always hard though. 
So I guess this week always heading from year to year, I guess it's the same thing.   Just giving too much pressure on myself and too much thinking, too much hard on myself.   Every time coming here, just my game has been totally different.   That's why I haven't consistently played well, especially this week.   But I guess I have a great experience the last 16 years, I guess.   So time to probably go out and play instead of trying to think of what I really wanted.   Just do my best in the week and we'll see for Sunday.

Q.   You're a veteran because you've been around so long, like you said, 17 years chasing this.   But you're still only 36.   You're out there with the girls who are 15 and 16 on the leaderboard these days.   Does that make you think back to your days when you were just coming out here and all the success you had so early? 
SE RI PAK:   Actually, it is.   I know it's been 17 years, but feels like it a couple years, not really 17 years.   I still see the same members here I used to play with.   Not many things have changed.   But the last couple years you see age‑wise it's been totally different than I was first year. 
First year I was coming out of my 20s, probably the youngest to play on Tour.   Now since like 16 is probably, 15 is already coming out early on Tour.   So that makes a huge difference, but at the same time it just reminds me I was back at that age how I played great and having fun out here. 
When I play with them I feel like I'm the same as their age, 16, 17 years.   I've never been old, ever.   I say I never feel old, but the difference is first thing in the morning I wake up it's kind of a little different, but when I'm at the golf course, I feel the same.   It doesn't really make a huge difference.   Just go out and work hard together, we play all the time together, seeing them all the time.   So it really doesn't matter.   It probably helps my game a lot because that's a good thought.   We see them, it reminds me of good times at that age, and it just makes me keep going.   It gives me a lot of energy and excitement. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT