THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 13, 2013
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome one of our co‑leaders, Se Ri Pak, into the interview room.   Congratulations.   Great 5‑under par round today.   
Take me through the day.   What were some the highlights of your round?   
SE RI PAK:   Well, I mean, first of all, really good to be here down and sitting here interviewing.   Um, you know what?   Just everything has been pretty calm and nicely.   Like right now sunny day.   Just everything going really smooth.  
I missed ‑‑ I wasn't really miss too much shot, but just because fairway and green so soft because of the rain.   That's the help.   
And especially my putting actually last couple weeks giving really, really hard time.   I mean, just don't know why.   Just keep missing it.   Can't make any putt, and then you're losing your confidence and make you a lot of trouble.  
But I see my dad last week and he give my a little bit lesson because he know me‑‑ nobody know me better than him.   He see it and give me a little bit tips.   It really worked really perfectly, so that's why I was really play well, because swing‑wise everything has been perfect, but just having trouble on the greens.   
But now I'm making some good putts and good making and good up and down.   That says a lot.  
MODERATOR:   You've had success here.   You played really well here last year and finished eighth.   I know the golf course is different now.   How does the change in the golf course effect you?   Does the new layout seem to suit your game?   
SE RI PAK:   First of all, probably everybody saying it's lot longer than we used to play.   At the same time, now lots of rain the last couple days.   That gives even more longer because every shot we hitting the fairway always a (indiscernible) iron.   Normally short iron, but it's probably shortest I hit was I think 8‑iron.   That much been getting longer.  
I mean, used to be here from fairway and kind of short golf course, a lot of undulations.   But the change in golf course is a lot different than last couple years we playing.   But at the same time, I think because of right now the course is set up getting longer, but as a well players having unexpect that distance‑wise, I think.  
So that's not easy.   But still, at the same time soft.   Fairways soft, greens.   That definitely helps a lot.   So that's what I think good thing right now, and the other thing is really hard, too.   It's just half and half.  
MODERATOR:   This week marks the first time the LPGA has had a fifth major on their schedule.   You've won the LPGA Championship; you've won the Women's British Open; you've won the U.S.   Women's Open.   Kraft had previously been the only major you hadn't one.   A win this week would give you four majors, which would be a career Grand Slam.   What would that mean to add that distinction to your career?  
SE RI PAK:   You know, I mean, I'm pretty much long, old time players.   So the Kraft, in the four majors I was looking for it, but now we got extra one more major.   Now giving more better chances.   I think that's a good thing.  
At the same time, if you think about it, the course I'm thinking so many years already, it's pretty hard though.   I'm trying to getting there.   I knew I'm there and it's just really not happening so far.  
If happening this week, would be great.   Really I'm looking forward to it.   Of course three days to go.   Just trying to go out there and do my best.  
MODERATOR:   Questions.   
   
 Q.   Could you just tell us what the tip was from your father about the putting?   
SE RI PAK:   Actually, I was too much bending, I guess, my upper body, and at the same time arms being too rounded instead of kind of more straight to the putter.   I mean, during the round you don't really realize it, what's wrong, this and that.   
I mean, I'm trying to play well as I could at the golf course, but just I can't fix it.   I just can't find it.   I just couldn't to make it happening.   Then I was talking to my dad for last couples weeks I was in America.   And, yeah, last week I was in Korea spend time with the family for couple days.  
He actually see me putt and then he gave me tips about the gripping and like bending.   My arms, he tell me to be a little more straighter.   I think that makes it more make sense.   If you do that, looks like I'm using my hands too much.   So that is the most important, using too much hands, you know?   
I don't know if all players different, but for me, I think that's the right answer for us from my dad.   So I done it; I try it.   Right now it's not 100% comfortable, but, you know, I'm trying to‑‑ my dad told me everything really been happening really well, so I was listen all the time.   
That's why this week doesn't matter if uncomfortable, I'm still working on it.   
   
 Q.   You said you're one the old‑timers on the tour.   You're two shots ahead of Lydia Ko who's only 16.   What do you make of her performance?  
SE RI PAK:   Well, she's 16, right?   
MODERATOR:   Uh‑huh.  
SE RI PAK:   I play with her last year at KLPGA in December.   I think that's my first time I ever see her and first time I play with her.   I was really huge impress me.   Looks like she was a teenager, 16 years old.   I mean, of course, you play the teenager, you know, the game, they don't know much about the game.   They don't have the control of the game.   
They just play golf.   One day is good day, one day is bad day.   Just great up and down.   Stuff like that.   But when I play with her first time, looks like she have her own game already.   Only 16 years old, but she knew how to play, how to control, exactly what she was doing it.  
She just impress so much for last time.   And then since that, I tell everybody, I said, You know, she's probably the best young players coming from pretty soon or later.   She turn pro, probably the same thing.   She gonna be very, very good.   I'm pretty guarantee that.   I pretty sure for her, I think she just ready to go.   
   
 Q.   Can you just talk about compared to when you started your career, nowadays are you still as motivated?   And the different pressures now, do you feel less pressure?   
SE RI PAK:   Well, yes, less pressure.   At the same time, I'm still good motivation for all the young players, because they gives me great memory about the way I was that age, 20, early 20s, rookie years.   I'm here, learn, play well and consistently and a lot of confidence.   
Just all those when I watch it just give me a lot of good, good energies, and then I see them and just make it so proud of it.   So enjoyable.   
That's why that makes me out here still, because‑‑ well, I'm still competing with all players, but at the same time, just right now so great to watch them.   You know, just really happy to see them, and at the same time learn from them, too.   
Because like old days is make a little bit difference, like changing stuff like that.   So that makes it just keep going.   You know, for me, as I say, just less pressure, but at same time I feel it's more enjoyable.   
MODERATOR:   I know had battled an injury last year.   Kind of off and on have had some things this year.   How are you feeling right now overall health‑wise?  
SE RI PAK:   Health‑wise perfect right now.   Last year was injury, but at the same time it gives me a little bit more break.   Sometimes I'm not feeling good and I try to back off and rest it and come back full charging.   
But before, a little bit injured, Ah, it's just fine and just take it easy on it.   Just a lot more learn from that last time in injury, because as long as I really like to play, I know was important thing to do for myself.   
That's why it's a lot easy for me now to controlling what to do, how to take care, how to play.   I mean, that gives‑‑ every player learn a lot by mistake.   So from the injury, I actually heal there, but now I feel great.   Again, I'm happy to be back in the play.   
MODERATOR:   Any more questions?   Thank you very much for joining us and best of luck this week.  
SE RI PAK:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT