WEGMANS LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 7, 2013
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   All right.   We'd like to welcome LPGA and world golf Hall of Fame member Se Ri Pak to the interview room here at the Wegmans LPGA Championship.   Se Ri, your 16th appearance at the Wegmans LPGA Championship.   You're a two‑time winner of this event.   You won it back in '98.  
SE RI PAK:   Three time.   
THE MODERATOR:   Three‑time winner of this event, the first of which was in 1998, your rookie year.   Before we talk about your round, just tell me what it means to sit next to this trophy and think back to 1998 when you made the biggest appearance on the golf scene that anybody really has ever made.   
SE RI PAK:   Well, 1998 is basically my first season in U. S.   I came directly from Korea.   Of course, I don't know anything about it.   All I know is just trying to join in the LPGA and trying to learn my game from best golfers on tour.   So I decided to come out, and I play, of course.   Don't know anything about it.   
The funny thing is, after one event, the first time to win, and doesn't really know that it was a major.   That's the first thing.   Yeah.   Just don't really know what's going on.   And then the second I was in the media room and I was interviewing and they said this is a major event; you know about it.   I was like, oh, really?   I really don't know it was major.   So that was first time winning was a major.   
And then beginning with that, it's been fun.   Actually I won a lot already.   I played with Beth Daniel.   She was in the Hall of Fame and she was really great top player, and we play together and I learn a lot from them.   And I was so lucky to get a trophy, which is the rookie that won the major the first time in a tournament.   That was pretty exciting about it.   And actually my games and everything, I feel like a lot of confidence.   
And you know, I can't really be living in all this pressure, so I keep it going, and my game is getting better and better each week, and next thing I know is another chance to win a major.   So that's happening, 1998.   This is the beginning of it.   And that really, really meant a lot.  
THE MODERATOR:   You've come a long way since that time.   25 wins, five major championships in total.   And you find yourself near the lead here at the 2013 Wegmans LPGA Championship.   Take us through your round today, how you played.   
SE RI PAK:   This golf course has been really tough condition, probably ever I play.   We always wet conditions here pretty much every year, but this is probably hardest condition I ever play.   
As soon as I get there, making fairway a lot more tighter than last year.   The rough is a lot more thicker, and then plus, we got a lot of rain yesterday.   That makes it even harder.   
So starting first tee I was so focusing on every shot.   Really doesn't matter if I missed it.   Try to get up‑and‑down, move on to next tee.   And that's hard conditions.   After that, of course, I get up‑and‑down and good putts good saves, and I'm here.   I didn't know it was such a great round, but it's good.   
THE MODERATOR:   Last year after two rounds you were leading this tournament.   What is it about Locust Hill or the LPGA Championship that just works well for you?   
SE RI PAK:   I think the LPGA Championship does work really well for me.   And I don't know that this golf course doesn't really work ‑‑ well, yes.   First two rounds should be good, but hopefully next three rounds, again, even though I have a great chance again this week, and hopefully I play the rest of the rounds.   
So especially it's harder conditions right now.   I'll just go out and focus every hole and play as hard as I could and we'll see on Sunday.  
THE MODERATOR:   Earlier this week we had three chairs right here.   It was Inbee Park, Na Yeon Choi and Jiyai Shin who were three raining major champions at the Kraft, the British and the U.S. Open, and they spoke very highly, as many Korean players do, of you and the impact that you had on them.   If you were in the audience looking at that, what would you be thinking to see three young Koreans, three major champions all talking about you as their influence?   
SE RI PAK:   I'm very proud of what's happening right now.   Since '98 I never thought it would really happen.   Of course, some players, probably a couple of players all try, of course, it's a possibility, but never ever thought about it's going to be right now a big impact in our country, definitely in Asia, too.   So it makes it a lot []to see what's happening right now.   From our country, the young age right now that plays so well and they know what to do and they know what the game is, and now they win all the majors.   Very impressed.   
You know, it's really hard, because I was a rookie.   As I said, first we play on the LPGA, of course your goal is trying to be out here, win the tournament.   Of course, you're hoping you're in the majors, and you know, keep it going as a professional, but you never thought about it happening so quick.   
But these players, young players right now, they are actually doing so well.   And they pretty much every week top of the leaderboard.   So that's really happy to see that.   I'm very happy to see that right now.   And of course, that gives me a lot of energy to keep it going on tour.   So that's a good thing.   
THE MODERATOR:   Anything else for Se Ri?   Thank you so much for coming in.   
SE RI PAK:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT