LPGA KEB HANABANK CHAMPIONSHIP
October 20, 2012
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   A little different than yesterday.   Just run us what was working better today than yesterday.   
SE RI PAK:   Yesterday was really good, though, a couple shots here and there I missed because‑‑ one double, that's a big number.   But other than that, it wasn't really different yesterday and today.   I make more consistency.   I don't think I missed shots.   Some, but it's not as bad as yesterday.   But missed some putts, and I don't have any bogeys.   Actually that helps.   
Golf swing feels good, everything is good, and I feel‑‑ I'm having fun out there.   
   
 Q.   How is the fan atmosphere?   Obviously you played with two other Korean women.   You had a good group?  
SE RI PAK:   I'd say this week is bigger fans than usual, I think, the last couple years.   It was pretty good to see them out there today.   Of course that helps me a lot.   Of course it gives me a lot of excitement.   Yeah, just great.   
I mean, of course taking a lot of pictures here and there, that actually caused us a little bit behind because sometimes we have to catch up and make shots.   But other than that it's just fantastic fans out there.   I really enjoyed it.  
   
 Q.   2002 the first year it was here.   How has it changed?  
SE RI PAK:   Of course there's a lot difference, a lot changing, but the way the players are playing, everybody gets tighter or more consistent players.   Of course top players more feel better and players from all over the world.   We can see a little bit more Japan, more Asian, Korean, of course, and now a lot of Europeans.   Basically that's what the LPGA does is global fields.   
I mean, of course a lot more young players than last time I played here, but it's good.   It's really good to see that.   You can see differences like fashion wise and all the players have a different attitude and kind of different style of golf.   So that really makes a lot of fans out there having fun.  
   
 Q.   Mi Hyun Kim is retiring, Grace did earlier this year.   You're like the last final original left.   Does that make you feel proud or maybe a little old?   
SE RI PAK:   I'm still really proud of playing, and of course that makes me some old, too, definitely, older.   This field, these young players from different countries, that makes a huge difference, too.   
But I just feel the same thing.   Of course age‑wise it's kind of a little big numbers, but physical wise I'm good, too.   It's really having fun.   I see them, the way they play.   It helps me, too, get back to the way I used to play, so that makes me a lot helping.   But yeah, just grateful.   I really enjoy it now.  
   
 Q.   You haven't played a full schedule this year.   Has it been easier on you to take more breaks or is it harder to get back into the swing of things?  
SE RI PAK:   Well, actually it was a really great season this year so far, but I got injured in Mobile, Alabama, so that takes me a couple extra tournaments off, and now still I'm trying to rehab, of course.   It's really not a serious injury, but I was trying to take care as much as I could to get ready for 2013.   So that's my goal.   
So the next week is my last tournament, the final field of 2012, and trying to get back to 110 percent for next year.   I am looking forward to being rested a little bit with my family and hopefully next year get restarted.   
   
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT