U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 8, 2012
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   When you were finishing up, Choi was on the 9th green.   It was sort of like you were right together at that particular moment.   You were finishing up on the 18th green?  
SE RI PAK:   I saw that, yes.  
   
 Q.   Was that sort of symbolic?   Was that passing the torch to her?  
SE RI PAK:   Well, I know she's focused, and I'm trying to give her a little look back, but I don't want her to lose her focus, so I'm trying to not give her look.   But you know, she's already been there many times.   She won five times already, and of course, this is a little different than a regular event, but of course, having a lot of pressure herself, but she's good enough to be out there, hung in there.   I know she have a little trouble on No. 10, but still many holes to go.   She'll be okay.  
   
 Q.   At the same time you have to be fair to your fellow countryman, Amy Yang, who is chasing her?  
SE RI PAK:   Yes.   Like last year a couple of Koreans went into playoff.   Again, they play together last round.   I'm really happy to see that.   I'm very proud of both of them, no matter what happened.   Of course they are coming to one of these champions.   They are still young, very young age and many career to go, and they will already having great success.   So no doubt.   
After this week they will have great experience and helping their future.   So as I said, just really exciting to watch it, because back 14 years ago, of course, nobody here from my country, which feel like really alone, but now, I feel really good.  
   
 Q.   How did the shoulder hold up and how did the course play different this time than '98?  
SE RI PAK:   Well, my shoulder right now been ‑‑ it wasn't much cause problem, but still after injury, I still weak, my shoulder.   Still have work to do.   I'm trying to take it easy on it because I really want to be out here this week.   So I'm glad I'm here.   Of course, I wanted to be at top of the leaderboard.   I'm trying to actually do my best, but it's pretty hard.   It's very difficult.  
But compared to '98 and this year it's a little different.   I'd say more for giving, but still difficult.   I wouldn't say easier.   Fairways is wider, firmer, longer.   Especially wind, harder.   Back in '98 you it seemed more tight, firm, same thing, wind.   But this course is a little different.   But this golf course by itself is already hard enough to be out there to shoot low numbers.   
But this year, you know, of course, back then here all this make everything a lot better.   Players actually are taking care of themselves really well.   But as I said, the meadow is a great golf course.   I really, really enjoy it.  
   
 Q.   Do you remember when you finished second to Na Yeon on the Korean LPGA when she was still an amateur player?  
SE RI PAK:   How do you know that?   
   
 Q.   I did some research.   
SE RI PAK:   Yeah, yeah.  
   
 Q.   Did you see anything special in her way back then?   That was like seven or eight years ago even?  
SE RI PAK:   Actually I saw her first time ever, she was an amateur, yes.   And I think she's already having great season going on, and I heard about it a little bit, and actually I played with her once that week, but I saw her when she play.   I mean she have, yeah, she have a great solid swing and she have great tempo, and she's a really calm player.   She's not really up and down.   She always was a consistent player.   So I know she was going to be really, really good, and after a couple years later she turn pro and I see her here, yes, my theory is yes, I'm right.   She's really good.  
As I said, you can't see all Korean players from young age.   They're here.   They won many times.   But they really work at it and at the same time right now they're really smart.   They know how to take care of themselves and how to traveling, keep company, keep work, rest.   So they're really proud.   I'm just really happy to see them all.  
   
 Q.   Given everything you've been through, are you very happy with how you played this week and how you finished?  
SE RI PAK:   Yes.   First of all, because I'm playing this week, because as I said, I got injure my shoulder.   I wasn't sure I can able to play.   But I'm here and play no problem.   That's the biggest.   
And second, yes.   Of course a little bit disappointed for yesterday, last round, but I'm still finish okay.   I'm happy about that, and of course, my game has come close.   Actually I'm happy to play again.   And then as I said, biggest this week, as I said, back 14 years and after 14 years later I'm here again.   So that's biggest grateful this week.  
   
 Q.   When was Na Yeon recognized in Korea?   I think she's top‑rated amongst the Korean players, but she hadn't won a major.   Others have.   So how well is she recognized?  
SE RI PAK:   She already won five times here.   So of course, now in my country they ‑‑ actually it's really popular sport right now, golf.   So many people ‑‑ I mean back in '98 to now you can see the people more recognize players, every player actually.   So that makes a difference.   So she's really great fame for young age.   Everybody loves her and she have such a great smile, so yeah, she's really famous.  
   
 Q.   Despite all the majors that have been won by your fellow countrymen, would this one have more significance because it was your victory here 14 years ago that started it all?  
SE RI PAK:   Back in '98.   Yes, yes.   As I said, back then, '98, our country golf is different sport.   They think it was a little different.   But now you can see it's just really popular.   People love it.   Now with so many kids playing, families playing.   Everything, such huge difference because of '98, yes.   Huge impact in '98 at this place.   So I think as I said, this is probably the biggest moment for my country and now.  
   
 Q.   Is it fitting, then, that it looks like another Korean is going to win at Blackwolf Run?  
SE RI PAK:   Oh, yes.   I mean as I said, I'm just really happy to see what happened.   They probably watching on TV in '98.   They probably, what, ten years, nine years, yeah.   I wasn't that old.   Anyway.   But yeah, they were watching TV back then, and they didn't know what's going on in golf.   And after, you know, I won the U. S. Open they're watching this moment here and they know what is golf and they think of their dreams, and then junior come Tom play the LPGA and now they're about to win a major.   It wasn't open for everybody.   Young players have such a great experience, especially this week.   This is probably the most memorable for everybody.   Everybody probably dreams about winning the U. S. Open.   
I mean of course all major, yes, everybody wants it.   But particularly U. S. Open is really champion of champions, I think.  
   
 Q.   Tell me about what was going through your mind on the last hole, the 18th.   You were just about to finish up your Open here.   
SE RI PAK:   When I was in the water.   I think I love water here, 18.   I'm in the water again.   I never thought it was going to go in the water, but I guess this is my hole, I guess.   I have to list all the days I put it in the water.   That would be great.  
Of course, the golf is just like that, you know.   Just pretty silly game and fun game.   Of course, I don't want the finish to be that way, but nothing you can do, right.  
   
 Q.   14 years having come back after having won the Open here, was there anything that you were just sort of going through your mind as you were about to wrap up your second Women's Open here at Blackwolf Run?  
SE RI PAK:   First place I never really thought about coming back again here because this is my ‑‑ 14 years later.   I never play exactly same golf course ever we play.   This is probably the second, and this is the event I am actually born in as top player.   
So you know, as I said, that's why I'm having really the point I have ‑‑ the moment I have shoulder injury, it's really disappoint me really, most of the time.   It's not because I have to off season.   It's just because I can't be here.   That much it really means to me a lot.   But as I said, I was wishing I was competing one more time.   But as I said, it's more than winning.   This is probably more than winning I'm here.   
As I said, it was such a great week and a great place, and this is probably the most ever in my life spend time here two times.   That's probably the best week ever.   
   
 Q.   Will you stay around for the end?  
SE RI PAK:   Probably.   We'll see.   Yes.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT