U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 7, 2012
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about your round today.   I'm sure it wasn't quite what you wanted, but it was very challenging with the wind and the hole locations.  
SE RI PAK:   Oh, it is today.   A lot tougher than any days.   Actually I always expect that.   We know the wind is coming, and there's no way I can get out there.   But right now it seems like one player having a really great time.   But other than that, this is the golf course it is.   
When you got winds a little bit in your face, and the greens get firmer, fast and firmer, and you have a lot of different distance from the first two rounds.   It does make huge differences, too.   
Some holes, tees back.   Actually, it's really hard.   That causes a lot of trouble a little bit.  
But yeah, as I said, you miss it by really little, I mean some golf course you can get away with that, but this golf course is no chance.   Same thing today.   I got a couple tee shot miss a little bit here and there, and it cause me, yeah, cause me some bogeys instead of a lot of birdies.   
Of course, it was a lot of disappointing round, but I'm still happy to play anyway, so that's good.  
   
 Q.   I'm sure you're a little bit disappointed because a good round you probably would have been in position.  
SE RI PAK:   Yeah, it is.   It is.   Of course, I go out there today, I feel really great swinging and striking, but today is kind of a little off a little bit.   But I guess I'm thinking too much wind, I guess, so that's affecting a lot my game today.  
You know, as I said, I'm trying my best out there to focus one at a time, but earlier in the round we got so packed hole to hole, so many players having trouble out there, so we were waiting for at least ‑‑ on one tee we had three groups.   I mean that's long, par‑3, par‑4.   Starting No. 3 we got like three groups on the tee and they move okay and all of a sudden again slowly backed up par‑3 and move okay and slow back again.   
So it is hard because you're trying to keep momentum going forward, it's a lot better, but waiting too long with this wind is really not helping.   But as I said, some player have a good day, some players won't have a good day, including me.   But as I said, just one more round to go and tomorrow hoping I'm going well and just do my best.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT