U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 3, 2012
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Good morning.   Welcome to the 2012 United States Women's Open Championship.   In 1998, we had one of the most thrilling Women's Opens that I ever have seen.   It took 92 holes.   At the end of it, Se Ri Pak was the national champion.   Ever since then the young Korean players have called her by the name of "Legend."   She certainly deserves that.   She started a whole pattern of players from Korea coming to the United States and doing so well. 
So Se Ri, you've had‑‑ you're back, the place that you love.   You've had a few problems with your shoulder this year, a little shoulder injury.   Tell us how that is going and how it feels to be back. 
SE RI PAK:   The first I'm very excited to be back again.   It's been 14 years back, actually, since from the U.S. yesterday‑‑ it feels like yesterday.   It wasn't any big differences at all.   One big difference is I'm a little bit more older than last time I was here.   That's the difference. 
Yeah, probably already know that I got a little injured on first three‑‑ sometimes first of May I dislocated my left shoulder.   I was lucky to get to be not having serious injury.   So I came back early and right now I feel really great.   Which is still working on my shoulder, make sure I get perfect with the condition that I have.   Other than that just that I really feel great to be back again. 
THE MODERATOR:   

Q.   You started a wave of‑‑ you became a legend in your country by winning, and you started the wave of South Korean golfers.   What satisfaction have you had about the success of other South Korean golfers? 
SE RI PAK:   Everybody, because, yes, legend of my country, yes, sometimes I hear from a lot of pressure on it.   But I think I actually opened the door for them.   Before I decided to move to the U.S., play the LPGA Tour, I'm trying to get myself to making my dream, actually, as one of the best golfers and want to be the best. 
I want to be No. 1.   So I choose to play at the LPGA.   And I came '97 I went to the Q‑School.   First stage and the final.   Actually, I was a little more closer first step to be the LPGA Tour as first time ever‑‑ not the first time, I was the second time of my country.   I think the first one was her name is Oh‑Kee Kuh (phonetic).   She was here a couple of years back, actually, then I was '97. 
So anyway, that's my first step.   Yes, I'm trying to be here, trying to learn how to play the best golfer in the world.   Everybody in the LPGA Tour.   So just step by step I'm trying to set my goal, trying to be the best and trying to learning and get used to it.   I know it takes about a couple of years to get everything, you know, more centered down because, first of all, like I don't think it's easy to pick it up. 
So in the second, you're traveling.   And third, you're learning from a totally different culture from a different country.   So I know it's not going to be easy ‑‑ from different country‑‑ first time ever for me to move on by myself in the U.S. 
Since that ‑‑ since, however, I'm in my dreams here at the LPGA Tour.   And then I'm giving now‑‑ you see 40‑something players from my country, I guess, every year they are trying to kind of‑‑ they are trying to make their own dreams come true.   So that's why‑‑ what I do‑‑ I guess I opened the door for them, as nobody even tried before.   You know, it's not easy.   However, I give them more confidence about their move forward. 

Q.   Se Ri, did you play yesterday?   Did you play the course? 
SE RI PAK:   Today.   Afternoon. 

Q.   So you haven't played it yet?
SE RI PAK:   No. 

Q.   Go back to your memory, what makes this such a tough place? 
SE RI PAK:   All I remember this golf course, doesn't matter how many times you play, how long you spend time here, it wasn't really matter, I think.   I knew‑‑ I remember it was so difficult.   By whatever the USGA set up, golf course is really hard.   Especially this year, I guess, more, actually, the lengths‑‑ the distance. 
'98 back then, yeah, course condition, course setup, Blackwolf golf course, it's really hard.   Every single hole you have to really planning if next shot‑‑ what you're trying to miss‑‑ you miss, every golf course is the same way.   Just miss the wrong side.   You don't have a chance for it.   This golf course you really have to be course management, how you play this next shot, how‑‑ second shot coming to next shot.   And on the green, from the fairway, bunker, rough.   It's going to be tons of work to do.   So today, of course, I'm going out first time in 14 years.   It's going to be a lot more work hard for it.   But I'm very excited about that. 

Q.   Se Ri, what do you think of the change of No. 7 from the par‑4 in 1998 to a par‑5 now? 
SE RI PAK:   I think that's pretty great changing, because back then it was more the longest par‑4, and then always into the wind.   And you see the right side, huge bunkers wide open.   And greens is really far too.   Everybody hits from the fairway, doesn't matter how long you hit it.   It has to be‑‑ long hitters have like long iron if you're into the wind.   Then the greens never hold it.   So that's another big huge hard hole.   That's why everybody has been having trouble for No. 7.   Now par‑5 actually, that's really great.   Even the par‑5 is pretty long par‑5 too.   But a lot better than the No. 7 for par‑4.   That's really great move, I think. 

Q.   Se Ri, I saw that you withdrew last week.   Can you talk about why and how you're feeling now? 
SE RI PAK:   I don't know why the last week.   Everybody probably heard about it's so hot there.   It's kind of dry hot, dry heat.   I don't think I never felt kind of so weird.   I really love hot weather than cold weather.   But on Saturday it was perfect for me in the range.   Everything warm up, everything ready to go.   20 minutes before my tee time, I went to a couple of putts to roll on the practice green.   As soon as I step on the green, I felt a little bit of dizziness.   I thought sometimes does, just like for a second and then back to normal. 
I kind of a little felt weird.   I was on the tee and it doesn't feel really right.   And trying to eat some bananas, make sure ‑‑ maybe so hot maybe I don't have any big energy.   So I was trying to eat some‑‑ a couple of bites.   It doesn't really taste right.   Still trying to keep on playing. 
So first tee, hit, great.   Second, but trying to drink water.   And all of a sudden I can't swallow, I felt sickness.   And then until I think I played 5 hole.   Then I decided not, because it doesn't feel‑‑ feeling is right, I think.   I think I got a little dehydrated and maybe a little heat stroke a little bit.   Comes this week, I'm trying to prepare myself to make sure I'meverything 100% in this week.   So I'm trying to get‑‑ you know, don't really feel right, I don't want to be pushing.   So I'm trying to make this week prepared.   So I came back here and I feel good, actually, yes. 

Q.   I guess during the rest of the time of the year, they don't have water on the 18th, on the last, do they just play it as sand?   Can you talk about the intimidation factor of filling that area with water?   You obviously know that water well. 
SE RI PAK:   18? 

Q.   Yes.   What that adds to the hole. 
THE MODERATOR:   Intimidation. 
SE RI PAK:   '98 was in the water, the hazard there, always to be the hazard there.   Last time we were here for media days, surprised there was no water.   It's bunker.   I don't know what's going on.   Totally different story.   I think the 18 hole is a signature of Blackwolf Run Golf Course, I think. 
As you can see, they make the golf course a lot different the bunker to the water.   That makes you a lot more difficult finishing 18 holes. 
Of course, I remember it was always water.   For me, always there.   So doesn't really matter the bunker, but I wish it was water.   They took the water‑‑ I think that's great. 

Q.   Se Ri, I see Kohler is one of your sponsors.   Can you talk about how long that relationship with Mr. Kohler? 
SE RI PAK:   Well, starting '98, actually, being actually great relationship with the Kohlers.   And then Mr. Kohler, I met him a couple of times and the last couple of times in Media Days.   However, I feel really good, though.   Part of‑‑ as my personal thing.   This is this week we are trying to be‑‑ because I really appreciate it the way they have done and what they did.   And my career started this week 14 years ago.   So it's more like friendship right now as more business.   But in the future, yes, probably will be the‑‑ as more good friendship and good businesship.   But right now, as I said, just be as great relationship and get‑togethers.   I thank Mr. Kohler.   That's why I try this week being, you know, promote a little bit.   Yes. 

Q.   Starting this week? 
SE RI PAK:   Yes. 
THE MODERATOR:   Today.   We waited for that patch to arrive. 
SE RI PAK:   Right. 

Q.   Yani needs to win the Women's Open to complete the career grand slam.   Obviously you neat the Kraft Nabisco.   That's alluded.   How much pressure do you put on yourself each year when you go to that event is to try to complete that slam? 
SE RI PAK:   It's really a lot.   Because you knew you need this.   And it's important you know you kind of are setting your mind, this is it, and you kind of automatically giving a lot of pressure on yourself. 
Every single hole you play, every single day of practice, you are actually trying to 100% prepare every single shot.   Just gives you extra more pressure on it.   And then again, week to week, especially that week came and all media, all fans, they knew this is what we needed.   Keep telling us you are going to do it, you will do‑‑ you wish you can do.   All from hearing from the fans, family, your friends, media.   It's a lot of pressure on it.   But best thing to do is ‑‑ of course it's pretty hard.   But trying not to think about this is it.   Really I need to.   Just go out and just shoot‑‑ every single shot you're trying to play one shot at a time.   I think that's the best way. 
As you know, if Yani, some top players knew, they knew they can do better.   So this is why the top players a lot harder tobe now ‑‑ such a great big event.   They are giving a lot of extra pressures and are really pushing so much sometimes, this won't help too much.   It wasn't easy at all trying not to think. 

Q.   Se Ri, this year you were really having a wonderful year.   You were starting to play better.   I have the feeling that perhaps you were inspired because you were coming back to Blackwolf Run that maybe you started thinking about that and reliving that.   And then you got the shoulder injury. 
SE RI PAK:   Right. 

Q.   Six weeks later you went to the LPGA Championship and you were leading after two rounds.   Did the fact that you were coming back to Blackwolf Run kind of give your game some more momentum and make you feel like I really want to have a great year? 
SE RI PAK:   It is.   Definitely that's true.   As soon as I heard from earlier this year, we knew last year.   We knew we came back here again right after 14 years later.   First hole for me was a huge impression, huge excitement.   I always I remember in my mind and I played the U.S. Open every single year, but as I said, this is probably the best U.S. Open ever.   Not because I'm winning, but it just overall‑‑ that year is such   fans‑‑ I never see that huge a fans out there ever.   And then of course, great 18 playoff, which is 20 playoff.   And of course, that shot I had made on 18, I mean, of course making the differences. 
I feel really special.   Because you won the U.S. Open '98 and came back 14 years later the same golf course.   I still play and I still play my game‑‑ my game is not as perfect as a couple of years ago.   Still feel great.   My game is is not getting‑‑ is getting closer, getting better every single week.   But I guess I think my heart knows that I'm actually‑‑ this week is giving a lot of great momentum.   That's why I think‑‑ I got injury from my shoulder, but I got back so quickly healing and really quick back to the play again.   So I think because of all I have, it's exciting.   Having a lot of energy.   And you really want to play.   This week doesn't matter good or bad, but I really want to be out here again.   So I think that's make it my own successful again. 
THE MODERATOR:   Se Ri, thank you so much for being with us.   Good luck this week. 
SE RI PAK:   Thank you.   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT