SAFEWAY CLASSIC PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
August 19, 2011
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: You've had some good rounds recently, great round at the British Open, another good round today. What was working well for you out there today? 
 SE RI PAK: Most biggest thing, I'm really enjoying it right now. Enjoying it, playing golf, and here I just missed a couple of putts. But I'm concerned with really having fun out there. That's probably the biggest, more consistency lets me play more well, better. 
 Because of my swing, my shot, I feel very comfortable. That helps a lot too. But most important is I'm very, very, yeah, just really enjoying it. 

 Q. With having these good rounds, I know you've had one good round a lot during tournaments. But is the biggest thing now just putting together that string of good rounds in tournaments to kind of give yourself that chance to win again? 
 SE RI PAK: Oh, yeah, of course I'm starting today. Three rounds of golf and sometimes you miss one, actually, you'll probably say I should have four rounds may be even better. But three rounds are pretty good too starting early better. 
 The next two days, you know you have such a great, consistent round and you feel good and you go out and play well, so same thing. I say, oh, I know I'm just very happy. Yeah, I'm just loving golf now.

 Q. This course, how was it playing today? I know they changed a few of these holes. 
 SE RI PAK: It's not easy actually. Some holes you can't even hit driver. You have to hit a mid-iron. But the wind you have a lot of travel left and right. So a couple of holes you have to really think a lot. You know, it depends on the weather. This afternoon it's a little more windier. That's why the afternoon score wasn't too good. 
 So as far as greens are softer, actually, I know a couple years ago the greens really firmed at the same time and the fairways firmed a lot harder. But still, the golf course is really tough. They make it harder, yes, this is really hard, yes. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT