U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 11, 2011
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Se Ri, it looks like there's going to be a playoff with two Koreans.   
 SE RI PAK: Maybe two or three.  
  
  Q. Maybe. But you won the U.S. Open back in 1998.   
 SE RI PAK: Yep.  
  
  Q. You're probably someone these girls looked up to a lot. What are your thoughts on the way Korean golf has come along?  
 SE RI PAK: Well, lately, let's say about seven, eight years ago, didn't start actually our country being as golfers. It's pretty and difficult and always play with hard conditions.  
 But since I won in 1998 the U.S. Open, since that actually so much things has changed. They building the more golf course; they making better conditions to players; and better -- not the program -- but like they trying to pick from different country how to make the best golfer and then try to make a better (indiscernible) for them, too.   
 So however, after that, for 14 years, you can see so much Koreans that are on tour. Just from rookie, a lot of rookies, of course and then two, three years now we have (indiscernible) player on the tour.   
 Overall, I mean, I really, really proud of them just as my country and such young age. So difficult, so hard to be being out here on tour, and so difficult to win the tour, too. Because right now the best golfer on the tour each week getting stronger, stronger.   
 But as I said, they little baby and they still to the to the learn point; but however, they hang in there really well. And this week, the U.S. Open, everybody dreams about it. Now two Korean are going to go to playoff. This is probably one of the history in our country.   
 So as I say, probably I don't know, just think about that as just being so, so much proud of them, yes.  
  
  Q. You mentioned it will be a pretty big deal back in Korea.   
 SE RI PAK: Oh, yes. Of course. As I said, probably going to be one of the big history in our country. Probably gonna be on the news right now and talk about it all night long.   
 Of course the parents going to be very happy about it. As I said, it's U.S. Open. Every country is here now, and you leading or you win, it's probably the biggest celebrate, I think.  
 So in my country and myself I say, yes, probably the biggest (indiscernible) ever, yes.  
  
  Q. Obviously you want to play well when you enter these tournaments. But how fun is it for you to see these two young girls play so well and make a name for themselves at the biggest tournament in the world?   
 SE RI PAK: I mean, every single year even I watching, 20 years old from my country, you know, just reminded me I was 20, 21 years old, which is keeps me better really feedback.  
 But, you know, I mean, I don't say I'm that old, but I was like long enough on the tour now. But sometimes you play every single time every week back and back, and it was only change, you know, sometimes like that.   
 Just makes me motivation. You know, like see them just give my a lot of energy. And then I learn from them, of course. Yes, I need to learn like what particularly this young player has been doing so much well and that and that.   
 So just makes me keep continue to being strong.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT