U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 9, 2011
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: 1-under par, 70 today, Se Ri Pak. 

 Q. How's the course play with all the weather so far?
 SE RI PAK: You know what? Like amazingly doesn't matter the rain too much affecting this golf course at all. I mean, the most difficult thing is on the green, though. Just so difficult to adjusting speed all day long. Doesn't matter you're in the morning, the afternoon. I think that's the most hardest thing on this golf course, I think. 
 So it wasn't really affect none, which is still tough out there. Hopefully we can go, keep, continue moving. Everybody wishing for that. 

 Q. How about the delays? How have they affected you?
 SE RI PAK: Well, was really long day yesterday because I need to really have like two shots to go and then all of a sudden we just have to be back, and I have to be all day long waiting, which is pretty long. 
 But, you know, everybody is the same conditions. So, I mean, of course affecting a little bit because of your -- you know you're going out, have to go off, keep moving around. Well, hey, there's nothing you can do. Just trying to play the best tournament in the year, and everybody respecting that.

 Q. How do you pass the time in between?
 SE RI PAK: Well, just sitting down in the lounge, eating a lot actually basically we do, and talking a lot. We talk over the golf course, what positions we have and about like some particular golf course, I mean holes, really difficult. 
 I mean, stuff like that. Doesn't really too much special things going on. 

 Q. Do you try and take your mind off golf in the rain delay and focus on something else?
 SE RI PAK: Well, everybody -- some players playing cards, watching TV, and physio massage releasing the back. Yeah, some players like us, I mean, me and other players, we eating nonstop and we just keep talking. (Laughing.) 
 But, yeah, trying to not too much think about it, because you already know at starting of tournament a lot of stress for it. 
 But all we can do just enjoy it.

 Q. When you get tired, do you think back to 1998, that 20-hole playoff you had at the U.S. Women's Open then?
 SE RI PAK: Well, thank God we not gonna happening again. But, yes, 1998 was probably the most longest and hardest and difficult of my memory. So always U.S. Open is always -- you come to this Open, you have to really prepare: mentally stronger, physically stronger, your game has to be always make sure strong enough to be staying whole week.
 But this week especially again you're -- somehow we just haven't been lucky with the weather, but we got pretty much used to it. I still happy about the way it is.

 Q. Is this your favorite tournament?
 SE RI PAK: Yes. Always. This is my favorite, and this is probably exciting of the year, I think, yes. 

 Q. Talk about the way you played today. You're 1-under par. Was there more to be taken, or did you get about as much out of the round as you could have?
 SE RI PAK: Well, I have such a great -- pretty much a solid run today all day. I have such great chances. But as I said, the greens have been really difficult. I mean, it doesn't matter you're five feet, six feet, fifteen feet, just even you have a chance, it's still difficult to adjust the speed. So it's really hard to make any birdie out there.
 I mean, the way today I'm finish I'm pretty happy about it. Still two more round to go. Hopefully hung in there well and then try to make some more putt as I could. 
 Best I can do is trying to not to make too big mistake. This is my goal. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT