AVNET LPGA CLASSIC
April 28, 2011
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MODERATOR: Se Ri, the defending champion, back in the interview room at 3-under par today. Currently one shot off the lead. If you would, just tell us about your day.
 SE RI PAK: Well, really glad to be back again. Always after the round come back and do it, that's a good thing. (Laughing.) 
 But actually was pretty difficult this morning, because really windy out there and greens are pretty hard to get the right distance. 
 But as I said, again, I'm trying my best, trying to be patient. So overall, I got another solid round today. 

 Q. Is that a key, the patience? I mean, because you have been around here before and you understand that. How much of that do you believe was a factor in your round?
 SE RI PAK: It is important to be patient out there today. Especially the golf course is perfect conditions. But greens-wise it's pretty hard, especially the wind is blowing is even harder.
 Yeah, I was out there. I making good shot. I'm happy about the results. It's just that off the green, over the greens, making a tough lie, but nothing you can do about it. 
 So as said at the end of the round, one or two good putt be in pretty good shape. Maybe in the afternoon a lot better shape, but still the greens kind of firm. 
 So next couple days going to be fun. 

 Q. Just how much has your past success here helped? You feel like it's an advantage?
 SE RI PAK: Of course. I mean, as I said, you play the golf course pretty well if you win it three times. There's a lot of good thought in the golf course. Give you a lot of confidence, too. 
 So I guess again today, I mean, as I said, (indiscernible). Hopefully do it tomorrow. 

 Q. Sometimes you've gone through periods where you love the game, and then you've stepped away from the and you then you come back. How do you feel about it now? 
 SE RI PAK: It was really good to be back again. I think that's what it is, because we're traveling all year long. I mean, when season started we have couple weeks off, but still feel like you have to pack and leave again. 
 So that's actually tough. Still not used to. Still not really fun to do it. I love to play, but travel-wise is more difficult thing I guess. 
 So that's why, as I said, I'm happy be back. Before I feel like I needed more rest, but this year so far I'm feeling great about it. 
 In between enough time to rest, go home, working on some game and play some more. For me, that's so far what I really like about it so far this year. 
 So my game of course makes me happy, and then I really enjoying it.

 Q. How much longer do you think you'll play?
 SE RI PAK: Not too long. Maybe couple more years. Not as much. I mean, you never know. (Laughter.) Couple more years. 
 MODERATOR: Thanks.
 SE RI PAK: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT