AVNET LPGA CLASSIC
April 27, 2011
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome defending champion, Se Ri Pak into the interview room. I know last month you finished 10th at the Kraft Nabisco and were playing really well before the break. How do you feel about your game coming of the three-week break? 
 SE RI PAK: I feel really, really great. Of course we got -- it's good weather for the conditions. We got one tournament, take three weeks off, one tournament, two weeks off. 
 Sometimes like that, because we been play all year long and we been packing and traveling all year long. So sometimes it's pretty good to break.
 I really having a great time. And then my coach prepare a little for this week, so I'm ready to go.
 MODERATOR: Did you do anything fun over the break? 
 SE RI PAK: Cleaned the house. (Laughter.) Practice. Wasn't doing too much things. Yeah, hang out with my friends there and that's about it. 
 Just playing golf all the time, so make sure I'm back here and in good shape again.
 MODERATOR: You won here last year. What is it about this course that you like, or what do you think about this course suits your game? 
 SE RI PAK: Well, everybody ask, Why you so good in that golf course, but I don't exactly know why my game suit in this golf course. 
 But however the golf course, you kind of -- you have to make really smart playing. You know, like you're not always hitting straight. Doesn't always having great shot on the golf course. But this you have to thinking how this shot, next shot, how to make it good, make sure which shot is easier. 
 I mean, I like the way the playing golf course. Sometimes I'm making my shots differently, you know, then have a lot of -- not too much communicating with my caddie, but more just partners. We're being fun out there. We chat a little bit about, different kind of shot, this kind of lie, and stuff like that.
 So, I mean, I guess it's overall my game pretty good this golf course. 
 MODERATOR: Questions. 

 Q. Because you have won here three times before, is there a great comfort zone coming into this even considering the strong field this week? 
 SE RI PAK: It is, actually, because you know you won more than once and you have such a great memory about it. This gives a lot of confidence in the golf course. Of course this week going to be another strong field, but that's the way it is on the LPGA Tour. 
 So, I mean, it is. It makes me a lot of comfortable outside. Especially playing today. It was a lot of windier, and the golf course is even harder. 
 But it makes me a lot of good feel, good thoughts on the golf course. That's helps a lot.

 Q. With the tenth place at the Kraft, you seem to be adding something to your game all year. Is this a good place it wind up at this particular point in the schedule? 
 SE RI PAK: I think so. I had such a great time off and back here for the defending , soit's going to be perfect for myself. 
 I mean, last week -- first week was a little easier. The last week been playing a lot more the practice, you know, my coach, and trying to feel more about the game than the golf course. 
 I'm here yesterday and today, yeah, it just makes me a lot of comfortable on this golf course. Of course I like the way they change couple holes. They're a lot better, so this make me a lot more enjoyable. 
 So actually every week my game gets better and better, and I like the way it is. 
 MODERATOR: Anymore questions? 
 SE RI PAK: Thank you.
 MODERATOR: Thank you very much, Se Ri. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT