U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 8, 2016
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How did it feel on 18?  What was going through your mind there?  
SE RI PAK: I don't know.  Over 19 years, actually, I have such a great time.  I have such a great success, beginning with U.S. Open.  USGA makes so special for me, this my retire year.  So they special invitation, last time I play the U.S. Open, so that means a lot to me.   
I don't know, I mean, 19 years is pretty long time, but the same time for me this is long enough on the Tour.  As I said, a learn a lot and I'm probably be lucky person to be as a golfer, such a great success.   
Now I'm actually move on to new life, which is hopefully everybody just wish me luck.  I'm going to miss everybody definitely.   
 Q.  Must have meant a lot to you to have Karrie Webb come out and say hello to you?  
SE RI PAK: It means a lot, actually.  She is probably one of them, the best golfer in the world.  I saw her when she is an amateur, actually.  She's one of my idol too, and we played together.  And I saw her and we grew up together.  It means a lot.  She's Hall of Famer.  She continue to play strong enough.  This probably be great to showing all the good players from her country to this LPGA.  That's really great to see it.  I know she's helping a lot golfing in Australia because she had such great success overall.   
 Q.  Was it hard to focus on 18 at all with all the emotions?  
SE RI PAK: It was.  Actually I thought I was going to be okay, but it wasn't.   
As I said, I have such a great time.  I did my best.  I just played as much as I could and tried as much as I could.  It's a lot of things going on in my mind, still same thing.  I said I just luckiest person in the world.   
 Q.  What were you thinking about waiting for your final 3-foot putt there, standing on the back of the green?  
SE RI PAK: Well, until yesterday, until this morning, I'm still playing so I don't really thought about this as my last.  On 18, this is it.   
I look back, you know, all my career, all playing, all friends, just so many things.  Probably I'm going to miss a lot, but I will see them soon, like I said, not as players.  But I don't know, it so much more emotions going on in my mind right now.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT