BELL MICRO LPGA CLASSIC
May 16, 2010
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MODERATOR: Se Ri Pak, everyone. Congratulations.   
 SE RI PAK: Thank you.   
 MODERATOR: You've obviously been here many times before; 25th win. On the Golf Channel, you were sort of emotional giving your interview. Does this one mean a little something extra for you, and why?   
 SE RI PAK: Of course, of course. You know, I been here so many times, but I been a little bit of -- you know, having hard time for last couple years. I'm trying to get back the way I am. I'm trying to give like -- give myself better momentum.  
 As you know, I mean, I work really hard every single day, every single moment, every single tournament. I just kind wait until, yeah, it's gonna be days come again. I know it's gonna be really close, but all I can do is wait and be patient. Still same things, I work hard and try to enjoyable it actually more.  
 Yeah, the moment I won again, actually, my feedback from -- yeah, from I guess four, five years ago, I won so many times. I was then actually -- you know, I feel like -- I mean, seems like everything is my way for like -- I was won 24 times. Actually everything's been great. I feel really strong and I can do it every single time.  
 Seems like for me I can really make it a lot easier, but I guess it wasn't. I know really doesn't expect that really hard the way to get the top, you know. I mean, so I said been having so much hard time and I learn a lot from there and I got a better -- different personality and different players and different mental.  
 I'm trying to be more like -- finally I'm in very enjoyable out there the golf. So that's why I think that's -- it is the way I wanted, you know. And then this week, after first round, like said, I really feel calm because I knew I mean, I do best ever single day and gonna be back. Trying to make myself really comfortable.   
 And the suddenly again, yesterday after golf I was leaving from the media center, and I said, Hopefully I'm gonna be back again. Yes, I did, so I'm really happy about the way I did.   
 MODERATOR: Tell us about the two putts. First of all, the par putt that kept you alive and the birdie putt that won it.  
 SE RI PAK: Well, you know, 18 seems like a totally different hole from last three days, because the course has been dry and seems like a lot easy to get some shots from the fairway because I got short irons.   
 But today it's really wet, and ball didn't go anywhere. Seems like I having mid-iron in my hand. So all times I hit 6-iron three times, exactly pretty much the same number of course. Two fairways, one from the bunker.   
 But actually I really like from the bunker, because better angles and seems like I can really make it better spinning from the bunker. Not really trying to, you know, purposely miss the fairway, but it was happening. But I feel really confident about that shot, so...   
 Of course, I mean, after first, you know, playoff, everybody make a two-putt. Second playoff makes me still alive. Still be hanging out there from the bunker. So that's actually giving better momentum for myself. I thought, I can do it. I can really -- still my game is pretty good there.  
 And then after, as I said, third playoff I was on my tee and I said, This is it, you know. We have to be -- either way, Brittany or me, has to be close down the bottom.   
 But I feel really, really great about it. I know she's such a great -- three times hit a shot there. But I say I know I can, you know, still make a chance. And then all of a sudden have a great chance.   
 And the putt from I make from the second playoff and the last putt from birdie, which was very, very close. So I think actually really I feel like really confidence about it. That's why I make the putt from birdie to win.  
 MODERATOR: Great. Questions for our winner.   
  
  Q. Talk about your shot out of the bunker, the 6-iron from the bunker, how far it was and how difficult that shot was.   
 SE RI PAK: From the bunker is about 170 -- I think said 172 or 71 to the pin. I mean, you don't want to really hitting straight to the pin, because of the greens really firm, and especially your landing spot is downslope, as you can see.   
 The second playoff I hit it little, you know, touch thinner, but it land in the downslope all the way back to the bunker. So I knew it.   
 But from the bunker angle-wise is perfect, even better than fairway. And of course lie get wet and make it tighter. As soon as I got there I feel really comfortable. I see finally a really clear shot from there. I have a lot of confidence of the shot.   
 So, I mean, really I think I rather the last one, the shot from the bunker, I think I take that better than was in the fairway, yes.   
  
  Q. You've had success in playoffs. You're 6-0 now. How did you keep winning playoffs like this?  
 SE RI PAK: Well, I knew before I go to playoff 5 nothing, so of course I'm trying to make it even better. But, you know, it's happen it's happen. It's nothing you can do about it.  
 But however, I don't know. You know, however like playoff, I'm always feels like a lot more -- like mentally I feel like more like confidence, you know. I mean, of course either way you winning or lose. You know like you can't even -- if you gonna chose, then of course gonna win.   
 However, playoff always makes my shots even solid, like even better strikes. I don't know why. Just think maybe I like the way there's pressure or I just want to keep it as my own, you know, record. I don't know.   
 But it's just been happening, you know. (Laughing.) Not really trying to make it like always perfectly. Probably sooner or later it's gonna be happen change. But I trying to make it as long as I could. (Laughing.)  
  
  Q. What about the scores? You've won here twice before and now your third time to win here. A little different configuration to the course. What about this place seems to fit your game? And your record here, how do you explain how you do so well here?  
 SE RI PAK: Actually, I love the way changing actually. Um, well, of course I won it two times before this week, but I'm still like -- well, this golf course really perfectly I thought -- makes me feel comfortable. This golf course has been tight -- used to really tight. Green like not wider, but like sideway wider. Bag we don't have any room, and greens always firm, so lots of undulations.   
 So it's a lot of a lot of workings. It's really having pressure to playing this golf course so well.  
 However, I think because of the type of golf course makes me a little more like focus and better on the shot. Because you have to shot like -- you know, making shots for fade, making shots for the draw, it's type of shot you are kind of making it.   
 So I mean, that's why I think you were kind of, you know, learning from every single shot from then, and then probably you know that you feel -- as soon as you got the feeling, you're gonna be pretty much like a -- you know, to get yourself out there and play really well.  
 For me, especially this week of course I won two times. I know this golf course like pretty much like fit my eye. I know so much about this golf course. But plus, they changing it actually really helps. I mean, I love it, the way change.   
 The amazing I said thing was they keep it exactly same shape green-wise too, but less like undulation but bigger. But I think it's really perfect. Even make it even better golf course as now.   
  
  Q. You talked about it's been a couple years since you've won. I guess was there any point in there where you wondered if you would ever win again? Talk about the struggles to get back to where you are. Did you feel something in the last couple weeks that you were maybe starting to come back a little bit?  
 SE RI PAK: Well, I never ever thought about I'm gonna be -- I'm never gonna win again. I know I'm always gonna be, yes, I'm gonna back again as maybe even better player. Not as old player. Then actually I don't know much about things and don't know much about the golf maybe play better.   
 But now I know so much about the golf and I know how it taking care of myself better. So as I said, all I need is just be patient. You know, of course as I say I still loving this game a lot, so that's why I'm keep out and keep practice hard trying to get back the way I used to.   
 But, yeah, I never ever make myself being -- you know, give up on myself. I'm always been fighter trying to get there again. You know, thinking about the more positive thinking.  
 Of course, I was feel great about myself even better in about last year fall. I mean, I feel really great about it. I feel great about my swing, great about the shots, like really striking really well. I know I can do sooner or later gonna win again.  
 But at the time actually, I really have a hard time my putting for a little while, since last fall, until couple weeks. You know, I been really struggling on the greens. So I mean, I got great shot and you make it's supposed to make but you keep missing it.   
 Now you make one miss shot, make a bogey, never get back again. So just my momentum is gonna really never get back. It's like a move forward. So actually that give my a little hard time. But overall, I mean, as I said, all I need to do is being really patient.   
 I work really same thing with same coach. We work every single time, every single moment we trying to think more positive thinking. I knew I could get there. Of course my coach always give my a lot of confidence. He always trust me like as great player, so we always practice together. He always telling me that.   
 Never feel, you know, move back. I'm always move forward. So I guess that working. Never know. I just still believe myself, my coach believe me as top player, so ended up collecting another trophy again. So I really like that.   
  
  Q. Your success earlier in your career, you paved the way for a lot of the Koreans to come over here and play. What does it mean when they come out and celebrate with you after your putt like the girls did?  
 SE RI PAK: Well, as everybody knows, I mean, everybody actually telling me that I'm being -- now they call them my country (indiscernible) kids, which is -- I mean, how many kid I have? (Laughing.)   
 But it was -- first I heard it was kind of a little -- you know, not really makes me feel comfortable at it. But as big sister, of course I'm very proud of them.   
 But now I like to hear from them to say we're kids, because they making -- they make them dream because of me. So, I mean, first moment I heard it was, as I say, I'm still single and I think of how many kid, kid.   
 Everybody is kind of joking around and teasing around. I wasn't feel comfortable. But overall, now I feel like -- I think because I'm keep it going because of them. Because they giving me the energies, giving me the way, you know, makes me as great memory. But that was then.   
 So today, of course the moment, they out there supporting me, of course, and I'm very happy about that. I never -- I don't think I never see it before we celebrating together. So this is probably first time ever for me to being as, you know -- they're from my country. Of course they're young. Almost like -- couple of them is almost like a rookie there, too.   
 I'm very proud of them. At the same time, makes me really, really special. Yeah.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT