BELL MICRO LPGA CLASSIC
May 15, 2010
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MODERATOR: Se Ri, 4-under, 68 today. Very good round. You got chased down by a couple young guns, but you're tied for the lead with Suzann and Brittany. 
 What do you got to do to get it done tomorrow? 
 SE RI PAK: Well, I mean, there's nothing I can do special. I mean, go out there and play as last three days. 
 I been really playing solid last three round. Of course I said this golf course fits perfectly this week. So, I mean, I love there today. Same thing. I really come out there and make some great shots, some great putts. 
 Of course I making couple of 'em I should be making. I missed a couple here and there, but I still feel really happy about the way I'm playing today.
 No complaint about it at all. Especially the weather in the afternoon doesn't make it perfect either, so it would be really, really great. 
 I really, really having fun today, too.
 MODERATOR: Great. Questions. 

 Q. With three of you tied going into tomorrow, is it great to get off to a great start, or do you want to close strong? What kind of strategy do you take into the final round?
 SE RI PAK: Well, I mean, I think this is better way you start for final round because sometimes leading by one or two shots of course you really having a lot of pressure on it. 
 So I think tomorrow probably the same time starting, so starting at less than even par, and then after 18 we'll see who's gonna get a trophy. 
 But as I said, tomorrow, I mean, I'm not just gonna do something special and make a differences trying to win it. Of course I'm trying to win, but I just go out there, as I said earlier, like I did last three days. 
 I really feel comfortable the golf course. I mean, really solid, my swing, I feel really great about it. So I mean, tomorrow, last round, of course I'm trying to do my best and hopefully get to the win, the points. 
 But tomorrow I just, you know, trying to have fun together still. 
 MODERATOR: We good? All right. Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT