BELL MICRO LPGA CLASSIC
May 14, 2010
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MODERATOR: Welcome, Se Ri. 66 out there. You made the turn obviously coming from the back and 35 and 31 on the front. Did something click on the front? Talk a little bit about the round. 
 SE RI PAK: Well, I mean, actually lately I striking really well for a little while. But I have really hard time on the green actually since last -- yeah, last year fall. 
 I mean, just trying really work hard my short game, especially putting. However, wasn't really, you know, following my way. So really have been struggling on the green. 
 But, well, actually, golf is patient game, so I kind of patient myself and keep working exactly same thing and change a little bit of routine. 
 Finally, I make some putt here and there, and then of course gets me a little more feel -- you know, my feel back, and then I have a lot of confidence back. And then of course I have a great chance. 
 So still I'm striking really good. The mix helps a lot, too, as long as I have a chance and make some putt here and there. And then ended up actually, yeah, with pretty good scores. 
 I never really, you know, try to give myself pressure. Just go out and try to enjoy it and make sure I'm doing the right thing. 
 And then overall, at the end of the round, I got a pretty good score. 
 MODERATOR: You're a two-time champion here. Obviously not the Bell Micro, but the Tournament of Champions on this course. Talk a little bit about the good vibes of coming back to a place where you've won a couple times.
 SE RI PAK: Actually, the thing is I talk about my caddie during the practice this week. I said, I won here two times. I know the golf course really well. Of course they changing a little bit, but I think they're really great job on the golf course at changing. 
 Seems like a more -- the amazing thing, I should talk about this, is they keep the same shape the greens, but like bigger, but less undulation. But still, I say, That doesn't mean it's easier. But still like more better, like more playable. 
 Before, not enough room in the bag, greens are firm, a lot of undulation. Players really hard time to be get on the green couple holes. But they changing really great.
 So overall, I mean, as I said, I won two times here. Of course I have such a great memory about it. Of course I play really well and scores really low, too. Actually, that helps a lot. 
 I mean, during the round of course I know so many holes, you know, where to miss, how to play, how to make the shot. So that actually helps a lot, especially during this week. Yeah. 
 MODERATOR: Very good. Questions. 

 Q. Se Ri, as someone who has won a lot out here - Lorena has left the game - I'm curious what your thoughts were, and have you ever had any moments where you felt like you wanted to walk away? You've had great ups and great downs, but... 
 SE RI PAK: Yes, of course. Probably all the players same as Lorena. We are actually living in the suitcase. Week to week we spend whole week in the hotel, traveling because of tournament. I'm very understandable. 
 I mean, I actually was feel that way, too. I mean, I really love to playing golf, but not packing all the time. I have to see my suitcase right next me all every single time, every week, all year long. That's probably most hard part, though. 
 You don't have really great life. You always been traveling probably 300 days of traveling, especially like by myself, which is pretty lonely, you know. Of course you see the golf course and many fans out there, so many players here, but not really social like in my private life. It's pretty hard, though. 
 Of course I was thinking about that way, too. But I'm still loving the game, you know. I'm still like to be playing out here, of course. 
 For me, of course still hard to be unpack, packing, traveling. But as long as I love golf, I'm still out there. That's why I'm still here keep playing it. 
 Soon are or later, yes, I'm gonna be probably find a like a normal life. Stay home, being as normal person, do something as normal people. 
 So soon, but not right now. (Laughter.)

 Q. At what time during today's round did you feel like you maybe got the rhythm going and this could be a really good score?
 SE RI PAK: Well, not really specific time. Just feel really -- I feel really calm at the golf course, because I think -- because, you know, play here so many times already. 
 I feel really great about my swing and tempo. Everything makes me really calm out there. If I have a chance, I make it; if not, I miss it. It's still out there so many chances. 
 So I'm not really just thinking about, This is it. Trying to keep myself being right at the time, but just want to be out there -- just try to be out there just really more enjoyable. Probably more easy to say and hard to do. 
 Of course, I'm always -- all year long over 13 years I'm doing exactly same thing. (Laughing.) It's not really happening yet, but I'm getting there. Seems like today, lately actually, I really feel calm at the golf course. 
 Seems like I feel more enjoyable. I play well, of course, striking better, and make some putts. Of course I like to see more making putts. But I'm getting there, so I just go out and just do my best. 

 Q. With the thumb injury, at what point coming back did that start to feel comfortable for you again? I know that had to affect you when you came back. Right after it is there that comfort zone? 
 SE RI PAK: I don't have any injury for the thumb ever. I don't have any injury for my thumb. 

 Q. Oh, I thought you had a thumb injury.
 SE RI PAK: What I have is like, yeah, on the left...

 Q. Okay. 
 SE RI PAK: Yeah, it was the middle finger. 

 Q. When you came back, how long did it take before you felt like you could hit shots and not worry about if there was gonna be pain or discomfortable or whatever?
 SE RI PAK: Probably I think I was stop playing right after British, and I thought it's gonna be just like minor injury. But soon as I keep practicing and hitting the ball, finger get bigger and bigger. So at that moment actually I have a problem. 
 Actually, I stop really quick. That's probably helps a lot. So probably about maybe like five months, and of course I totally can't even touch my club.
 Then of course an extra two or three months or so I'm kind of a little curious. I'm kind of a little bit scary, because, you never, you never know. I mean, I thought it was gonna be perfect, but still can't even see it. 
 So probably half a year actually get back to the way I feel 100%. I feel great now. Okay, little more shape as I used to. So since that, and of course I stay in my practice routine, practice, workout, and just do the same thing.
 So I think takes about six months to be get back everything clear up and make sure I can trust it and go out and play again. 

 Q. The LPGA has lost some tournaments in the U.S. but has added some tournaments overseas in Asia, Singapore. What are your thoughts on tour becoming more global? Being from Korea, do you like being able to have tournaments over there? What are your thoughts on the global aspect of the tour? 
 SE RI PAK: I think personally, yes, I really love I really love that it happen, you know, like worldwide. 
 The LPGA players you can see not only in U.S., not in Asia, not in Europe. We're worldwide members here, so we are should have different countries, different kind of weather, cultures. 
 I mean, I think the players are really exciting about it. Of course, we love tournaments and kind of hoping get back the way we normal, but, you know, I think that's good happen. We lost in U.S., but we have some in Asia or. We can see some differences. 
 But personally, yes, that's probably I think great move, great change. 
 MODERATOR: Thank you.
 SE RI PAK: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT