LPGA STATE FARM CLASSIC
June 7, 2009
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JASON TAYLOR: Scorecard real quick first.   
 SE RI PAK: Okay. No. 1, I tried to go for the green. I had a 4-iron off the green, left bunker, about 30, 35 yards. Was around 10 feet. I make birdie there.   
 No. 2, I got 9-iron. Was a little long putt, around 30, 25 feet.   
 No. 3, I hit three-quarter 9-iron about one foot away. So just tap-in for the birdie.   
 No. 6, three-quarter 8-iron. I think I was like 12 feet, 13 feet for eagle. I missed that one for 2-putt for birdie.   
 No. 7, I make first bogey the day. I missed the tee shot to the right and lay up short of the green around 25 yard away. I was pretty good chip, but I got five feet. I hit it too hard. I just missed it, so I make a bogey.   
 No. 8, what did I hit? Yeah, I got around 80 yards to the pin. I got sand wedge about 20 feet, 22 feet around.   
 No. 13, I hit driver. I got 7-wood just short of the green, fringe. 2-putt for birdie.   
 No. 16 again, I hit driver, 7-wood. Left side bunker. Was made it. So tap-in for birdie.   
 That's it.   
 JASON TAYLOR: Se Ri, congratulations on a nice week.   
 SE RI PAK: Thank you.   
 JASON TAYLOR: A 16-under overall, runner-up for the LPGA State Farm Classic. Talk a little bit about the week, the final day you had.   
 SE RI PAK: Well, after first round, second round, I was here. I missed the third round, but I'm here again. I had a really solid four round. Whole week is really good. On Tuesday I was practice. I feel really good to be here. I was somehow very exciting. Somehow was happening, I feel really good.   
 First round, of course I play well through the Sunday actually. All four round, I'm really happy about that. The last two days was the wind. Weather so much different the first two round. Of course, not easy. But overall, striking really good, making a lot of putts. I got a little bit struggle lately. Seems like I feel I get back in my tracks. I feel really great about that. I'm happy to finish.   
 Of course, I like to win. Of course, I'm trying really hard, do my best all 18. But always I said, I'm really happy for her, but at the same time I'm happy about this week.   
 JASON TAYLOR: Questions.   
  
  Q. Did you say on 16, the last par 5, you came close to making eagle there?  
 SE RI PAK: Yes.  
  
  Q. How long was the eagle putt again?  
 SE RI PAK: It wasn't a putt. It was in the bunker. About 15, 12 -- probably around 20 yard, the distance. But was not easy. Pin in the front, bunker right there. Not much room, the wind. But I feel like probably that's the hole I really needed if have a chance. Make birdie, I thought I have a chance. As I said, you never know until you finish. I guess happen.   
  
  Q. On 17, the par 3, you hit a very good par save. Would you call that a flopshot?  
 SE RI PAK: Basically I don't really have too much room. Wind is helping, downhill. Of course, trying to make it stop quicker. It was actually pretty good save. But I thought that is most important save I have, I said.   
  
  Q. When did you know that in young had gone to 17? Did you see a board somewhere?  
 SE RI PAK: 18 green, I saw 18, after I make on the green. I check it, she's 17. What? I thought I have chance. But she better than I am. I thought I just do my best, I thought I have a chance. But, you know, that happens anyway.   
  
  Q. Somebody said yesterday if you win one that a bunch of them will start coming your way. Do you feel you're close to a breakthrough for yourself again?  
 SE RI PAK: Probably today at No. 12, yeah, just before the par 5, I have a really great chance. I thought since that, I making probably great drive, great second shot I think around 10 feet away. I had a solid putt. I thought I had it. I think if I have a chance to not winning, probably not have a chance of not making that one.   
 As I said, you don't know. You never know. Still the afternoon, the winds are picking up. Of course, not easy. I guess that's the one I was thinking the shot.   
  
  Q. Could you talk about looking at the leaderboard and seeing your countrywomen up there. You're sort of the patron saint of South Korean golfers. Talk about what that feeling is like, the feeling of national pride.   
 SE RI PAK: Well, I mean, of course I saw many Korean up top. After front nine, probably got four or three players on top together, leading by one or they're tie. I saw it.   
 But, I mean, it makes me a lot exciting, too. At the same time we have such many players from my country, of course, so many players at the same time play together, so they have a chance like that.   
 But, I mean, of course this is basically your competitions every week. Whether we're friends or not, we're out here winning tournaments, same goals. At the same time we see them, makes a lot of work, too. We looking at them. I talk about earlier, all the young player from my country, because of me they come over to play the LPGA. Now just giving me a lot of energy for because they're here, they play good. At the same time I look at them and make sure I'm not too much lazy. I'm looking at them. I'm one of them their idol. Basically I just can't let like easy to, you know, give up on it.   
 Was I think that's pretty good the momentum for me to see them and make myself to still stay stronger. I think that's really could happen to everybody out here.   
  
  Q. You won a tournament two years ago in '07. I'm not sure of your finishes last year or earlier this year. I don't know how often it's been lately where you've been in contention the last day, where you feel that extra energy. Has it been a little while since you've been in this situation like you were in today?   
 SE RI PAK: After I think I have a really hard time like in '05, starting '04 fall, then '05 I have really hard time. '06 I won the McDonald's. Get back '07 about the same.   
 I think year after I have hard timing. I felt, I don't know, little missing something. I never, ever think myself how to take care well. I thought working out, practice, maybe that's probably the best way taking care of myself. But I guess that's not the point, I guess.   
 This what happen a lot solve hard problem because one time I never enjoyed game of golf. First time ever. That's why I having hard time so much. I don't know why I'm here. My minds wasn't here. I play, and it's still everywhere. I don't really happy about the game, things like that. Still spend a lot of time in practice and playing golf because I'm not happy. I mean, things like that just wasn't helping my game out at all.   
 Slowly I got learning the point, I guess. No matter what, the mental you're ready, you're good. If not, you can't be good out here and play. So I was little taking more time, taking break, of course, trying to fight something, whatever I spend more timing relax, things like that. Then overall just getting better and better.   
 Then year after since then, every year's make a difference. I feel like fun. This is probably first time ever having really fun. Even last year, I want to play well. But it's just fun to be out here, see all players, see good players out here, still playing golf, but at the same time working hard. Then I knew I can, you know, get back to the way I wanted.   
 Of course, I'm still working hard. But somehow the point I got, I feel like I really enjoyed it. I really enjoyed it out here to being with the players, I guess. So things like that happening.   
 Then this year, same thing. Always I feel like ready to go. I really, really exciting to be out at the tournament. Of course, exciting to play golf. Of course, I kind of wait. But I'm not trying to give too much pressure. I know it's been there before. No rushing. I still many years to go until I want to quit, thinking quit. I'm still loving the golf, want to play golf. Things like that.   
 Things like think more positive, more happy things like that. Suddenly I'm here again. I really like to talk about things again, like to see my names on the top of the leaderboard, of course. And everybody was really happy to see me out there, too. So that's make a huge difference, yes.   
  
  Q. I think this the second year in a row a defend-year-old from Korea has won this tournament. Last year was Ji Young. Do you know In-Kyung Kim very well, just to say hello?  
 SE RI PAK: That much. Actually I know Hee-Won Han pretty well, Sarah Lee pretty well, and Soo-Yun Kang. All the more a little same as my age players. Otherwise, early 20s, I just know them, I meet them in tour. So I wish I know more that I can speak more about her. As I said, just kind of feel bad now (laughter).   
  
  Q. Are you excited about next week with the McDonald's?  
 SE RI PAK: Yeah, I'm very exciting about the next week. Especially this golf course been great, you know, practice, momentum for the next week because the golf course is set up, shape, all these wind conditions and everything. So I think this is perfect timing. At the same time I play pretty well. Hopefully again, as this week, I hopefully have a good week.   
  
  Q. Have you spoken to her at all?   
 SE RI PAK: I congrat her. I really happy for her. Probably her best, solid round very have for last four days. We're competing together whole four days, whole week. But, you know, ended up second again. She is the champion. So, of course, I was -- it was happens I really happy for her. At the same time I said, You just give me hard time, old lady (laughter). As I said, kind of teasing a little bit.   
 But I like to see that happen. I mean, she's a great kid. She work really hard, too. So, I mean, that's happening. But at the same time, as I said, they are my energy. I think for them, I mean, I'm gonna see them.   
 JASON TAYLOR: Thank you.   
 SE RI PAK: Thank you, Se Ri.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT