LPGA STATE FARM CLASSIC
June 5, 2009
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JASON TAYLOR: Scorecard.   
 SE RI PAK: Started the back nine, but I'm going to call the front first.   
 JASON TAYLOR: No. 6 birdie.   
 SE RI PAK: Par 5. I got driver into the wind. Hit a 5-wood just short of the green, chipping around 15 or 20 yard. Almost went in. Tap-in for the birdie.   
 No. 9 I just finish. I got driver, three-quarter 9-iron, about 15 feet, 13 feet.   
 16, par 5, driver, 6-iron. Again, just off the green to the right. Chipped it about five feet for birdie.   
 No. 18, probably the longest putt for birdie. I hit a 3-wood, 7-iron I think around 33 or 35 feet for 'bir-dee' (laughter).  
 JASON TAYLOR: Thank you for coming in. After two rounds, you're tied for the lead at this point. Talk about your day a little bit.   
 SE RI PAK: Actually, wasn't really solid as yesterday. A couple times great up and down today. I mean, I still feel great about going out on the weekend. Overall, I mean, today still I don't make any bogey, which that's good thing. I was trying to not make big mistake. Playing really well.   
 Of course, I got scores that still really good. I was pretty lucky couple times. Yeah, I mean, so I said, still feel really great two for next two days.   
 JASON TAYLOR: Questions.   
  
  Q. I was in St. Louis in '96 when you played your first LPGA event. Do you remember anything about that?  
 SE RI PAK: Of course, I am. I think that's the first play the LPGA for inviting. Of course, I remember. I was there, of course. I don't think anything then. Probably '97 instead of '96. '97 I move to U.S. trying to get a qualifying, Q School.   
 I remember. Just don't know what's going on there. Of course, I don't really play well because everything pretty new to me. Of course, the players, the golf course, never play that before. The language, everything, kind of hard to take it.   
 But I was really having great, great experience there because by then actually I saw really great players that play so good, hitting longer. It wakes me up little bit then. Of course, I'm going back to Orlando, trying to go to Q School, try to work really hard, because I know what I saw then, here the LPGA. I think there's great memory about that.   
  
  Q. You've been out here now for so many years and done so much. You sort of went through a little bit of a rough spot in '05.   
 SE RI PAK: Right.   
  
  Q. Are you having more fun playing golf now than you ever have before?  
 SE RI PAK: Truly, yes, I am right now. Starting '98, just happening everything so quick. I don't know. I mean, as I said, last 11, 12 years, not really short time, but at the same time long years been passed.   
 Last four, five years, more feeling for the golf, thing like that. Early in the year, I don't know, just too much going on in my mind. Every week, just things going on through me. But now I say this is the way I really want it. I really enjoy it out here. Of course, the rookie from my country, I see them, they are all my energy because still makes me working. See them, think about was their age, I'm playing in the LPGA, play well. Now I just see a lot of friends out here, more relaxed, more comfortable.   
 A learn a lot last 11, 12 years. I think this is lot more fun to play, yes.   
  
  Q. The first two days you birdied No. 18, and you just birdied No. 9. Those are considered two of the toughest holes out here. Talk about those two holes. What do you try to focus on on those two holes?   
 SE RI PAK: Really, as I said, that's probably the hardest hole, last two, 9 and 18, because especially off the tee, long play. Sometimes you hit it good, it's not going to get. Today No. 9, hit a really solid driver. I mean, can't be hitting better than that. A bit left, you going to land in left, left water, or miss a little bit right, right water. I'm not trying to do anything particular, just trying to focus, trying to fit the fairway more than anything.   
 That's why, the more focused here, seems like the courses look wider, but doesn't look wide. As soon as I talk to my caddie, I said a couple holes, whole golf course looks wider than like that. But when you hits it, target-wise, it wasn't really wide because greens and fairways little firmer, going to go through the fairway sometimes. I did a couple times last two days.   
 So I said depends on how you just playing for the golf course, make it easier or difficult. But my main focus right here for last day, last two days is going to be same thing, trying to make it, hitting as many fairways as I could. Of course, the greens are firm, make sure you miss it the right place. Lot easy for up and down. Otherwise, can be make it pretty good number here, too. So glad I finish last two days good score, but still two days to go.   
  
  Q. You've been very consistent, won many times over the years. It seems in recent years there's a lot of young South Koreans coming on the scene, winning once, and not being able to follow up with another win. Do you have any thought about that?  
 SE RI PAK: I think is not easy to win. Is not can be guarantee if you win last tournament getting winning again. I said, of course, I mean, can be a lot of like confidence in their game after you winning the tournament. But overall I think challenging. Competition getting a lot harder. I mean, like 10 years ago different than now. But, yeah, each year is getting harder and harder.   
 I guess we play some golf course sometimes better shape, better golf course than couple years ago or 10 years ago. Then the equipment getting better. The players getting really great. That's the most important thing, players getting really great shape now. Everybody's trying to take care of themselves, work out. Their game, it helps a lot. I think that's why the game's getting harder and harder. Of course, not really have consistent winning, of course not easy, but that's just part of it, I guess.   
  
  Q. No bogeys here the first two days. You're quite a bit under par. Is this the best two rounds in a row you've put together as far as for bogeys?  
 SE RI PAK: I think so. This is probably the best round for long time. I just don't even remember maybe thousands, thousands years. At least I don't really remember it at all. As I said, you miss here and there, it's easy to make bogey. It's easy to make bogeys. Golf is pretty silly game.   
 I think however, this golf course, as I said, it's not easy. But last two days I really happy not making any bogeys. Actually that's what's makes me totally different mentally, physically. My game's getting better and better. I don't really hundred percent happy about that. I know is close. Last two days really makes me -- actually I feel good.   
 JASON TAYLOR: All right. Thank you.   
 SE RI PAK: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT