LPGA STATE FARM CLASSIC
June 4, 2009
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JASON TAYLOR: We can go through your scorecard.   
 SE RI PAK: No. 1, pretty good start. Make birdie. What did I have the third shot? I think I have 85 yards to the pin. I got a sand wedge I think around 15 feet, 13 feet. First putt for the day. I make one.   
 No. 6 is another par 5. I make -- I trying to go for two. I miss the second shot to the little right. I was in the rough. Around 50 something to the pin. Kind of a little long putt. Yeah, 20, 22 feet. I make that putt.   
 No. 10 again I got right rough, 127 I think to the pin into the wind. I hit 8-iron about another 15, 16 feet, make birdie.   
 No. 15, I got I think great drive. I think around 118 yards. I got a wedge, easy wedge, about 10, 11 -- around 10 feet, 9 or 10 feet.   
 16, par 5, had a little missed drive. Pin-high fringe, about 30 feet, 2-putt, 35 feet, 2-putt for birdie.   
 18, I think I got 3-wood off the tee, on the left, 150 yard into the wind. I got 7-iron about I think around 15 feet, 16 feet, yeah. Make birdie.   
 JASON TAYLOR: Thanks for coming in. 6-under in Round 1. Tied for the lead right now. Six birdies and no bogeys. So not a bad way to start the week.   
 SE RI PAK: Actually, I really looking for every week, every tournament. But it's kind of not easy to do that.   
 Lately actually my game's been getting settled down actually. Get closer and closer each week. I know I can play well pretty soon. But at the same time I'm trying not too much giving the pressure because I know I was there before. The problem was I giving too much hard time on myself. Kind of try little bit back up, make easy, make sure each round I do my best. Of course, I'm trying to go really low every week. Like I say, it's not easy. I can't control everything I want.   
 Takes many years, but I'm getting there. Overall, yes, I'm very happy about the way I finish first round because, as I said, even I miss couple shots, wasn't really even missed. I feel a lot of great about it. I was practice here earlier in the week. Somehow, I was really exciting, fun, relax. I think I can really play well soon.   
 So no pressures. Trying to having fun. I'm really having fun right now.   
 JASON TAYLOR: Questions.   
  
  Q. How nice is it to be playing well with Bulle Rock coming up next week?   
 SE RI PAK: I mean, yeah, it is. Actually, just before the week, before the second major of the year, I'm very exciting about that happening. As I said, my game's actually not moving, kind of slowly. I know I'm having lot of confidence about my game. I'm a little bit back up, make sure mentally make sure I'm ready all the time. Yeah, last couple weeks been so close every each time. Score, I can't really score well, because my putting was just not really making too much putt, things like that. I'm bringing back my old putter. I know about my swings really well. Feels really great about it.   
 So, of course, the next week's a lot more important. This golf course is perfect. I have to thinking really smart, too. So, I mean, overall, this is probably the great timing to play well, too.   
  
  Q. Se Ri, is this the first time you played at this course? You played at the Rail a few times.   
 SE RI PAK: Yes.   
  
  Q. From what you maybe heard about the course from other players, then coming here, is it kind of what you expected from what you heard about it?  
 SE RI PAK: Actually, I never, ever heard about anything at the golf course. I surely watch last year on TV. You can't really see it TV no much. But I saw every ball is really firm off the green. I saw a couple bounces, huge. Otherwise, I didn't really heard about any players or anything complaining. They're having fun. Kind of firm, the greens.   
 I was here on Monday, and I played 18 Tuesday. Weather yesterday was totally different than today. The golf course is in great shape. The setups are perfect. Of course, kind of play longer. It's not easy. Depends on the wind. And every single course from 1 to 18, you have to think about how to play each holes. You have to make sure which way the better opportunity to get the next shot, a lot easier, things like that. It looks wider, but doesn't look wider. It looks easy, but doesn't look easier.   
 I kind of like this golf course a lot because you have to really thinking. At the same time you play actually some little bit the golf course. I think this is really great golf course.   
  
  Q. You mentioned going back to an old putter. Do you know what kind of putter it is?  
 SE RI PAK: Never Compromise. I think I played that early the rookie season, a long time. The last four or five years, keep changing here then there. Sometimes pretty good to find it deep in the closet. You won so many times with that putter, so you grab it.   
  
  Q. Is this the one you won the U.S. Open with?  
 SE RI PAK: No, different putter. But I won a lot with this putter, too.   
  
  Q. One of your very early years you played at the Rail. You were doing well. You had to go do a photo shoot or something. You were being pulled in so many directions. I'm sure that's a long time ago. When you see some of the young Korean players out here now, do you see yourself a little bit? Have you always tried to go out of your way to help them if they need help?  
 SE RI PAK: Of course, of course. I'm really open for them if they need anything help because I'm here for, too. Of course, I'm one of them, the idol. They always saying because of me, things like that. Yes, of course.   
 But kind of little different then I was. Since I'm first Korean players. I've been winning a lot. Of course, the golf course is big in Korea since I was winning the Open. Of course, right now there little young players. Of course, they have the same attention, but it's not as much as I was then. I think because of so many number of Koreans, they're around the age, they're doing well, really on them. So it's so different than first and you did it second. It's kind of different.   
 Of course, I'm trying to lead which way better for them to be, you know, on the tour, at the same time their future. So, of course, I have great experience. Of course, I look at them just basically still pretty much close walking through that. I mean, of course, but they're really doing really well because I think they have so much friends together here make it a little bit more comfortable. I think that looks really nice.   
  
  Q. I believe when Ji Young won here last year she may have told the story when she was a little girl she remembered her mother and father being excited. She watched you on TV winning the Open. Back home it was 3 in the morning. How many players have told you stories like that?  
 SE RI PAK: I think that's almost half of the player does that, right at her age. Early 20, now 21 and 22. I think they all exactly same reason why they starting golf, because of their parent, they watching TV in the early morning because something's going on. And finally that happening.   
 So I say in Korea they call Se Ri Kid, means basically because of that time I was win the tournaments, I'm playing golf. Now with the same time and playing the tour, but they're winning a lot and they talk about exactly same thing what you saying.   
 Really kind of exciting about it. I mean, before never have the kind of feeling. Still have a lot of pressure because, of course, the young players coming from my country, I have to make sure I show them how to go the best way. But that doesn't means I have to play well. Well, by then I was thinking I have to play well to show them, but it wasn't.   
 It takes a lot of experience to being out there, how to, you know, taking care of themself, traveling, playing, the relationship with the different kind of country players, things like that.   
 So overall, when I see them, I feel fun. I think that's why I feel more like relaxed right now. I mean, seems like (indiscernible) now. Still being out here, playing golf with them, show them which one is right. They're my (indiscernible), that's pretty good.   
  
  Q. Does it make you feel old at all?  
 SE RI PAK: Yeah, it does. Still 31 years old. Of course for them, between me a lot of gap. It is. I mean, I said kind of joking around to the couple media sometimes at the interview, I said I'm feels really still great, but because of them I look really old lady now.   
 Even my caddie said, old lady. Geez, I never heard a caddie talk to me like that (laughter). That fun. 10 years, 11 years been really long time, but at the same time really short for me. Every time you traveling, at the same time I see each other every day, every week, every month. It doesn't really means like times like that, but it is. See young kid players come every different country, see them, times really pass a long time.   
  
  Q. I think Jee Young Lee is also at 6-under. Do you know her very well?  
 SE RI PAK: No. Actually, I don't see her. I don't really know her before at all till she joined to LPGA. Otherwise, yeah. I mean, I wish I know her some more. That age actually don't really, because I was already playing in U.S. They're playing golf in Korea. I meet them in U.S. Obviously, I know them more.   
 But I know they're really quite well players. Every day I watch them. When they talk to each other friends, they always play, practice, practice. Wow. Seems like makes me a little lazy. But they're really good. That age, of course I'm spend like 24/7 about golf. Same thing right now, not really changing anything. But I think I'm trying to planning which is better or smart. You have to make sure the timing, perfect timing to be rest, and then practice. You have to make sure everything organized at the same time.   
 I think, as I say, I'm learning from last 11 years now. Actually I'm getting there. Not done yet; getting there. They actually still learning. They will. They're so cute. I mean, I watch them. They're really sweeties all.   
 JASON TAYLOR: All right. Thank you, Se Ri.   
 SE RI PAK: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT