CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2008
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Se Ri, thanks for joining us. A season-best finish for you, a second-place finish. You had an up and down round, but you played even par and it was good enough to finish runner-up. Talk about your day and this week.  
 SE RI PAK: Well, all week I feel great. As I said, I striking well and putting good probably.   
 But earlier basically I got -- really was not bad, but happen wind is picking up a little bit in the front side. I missed one and made up and down.   
 Actually all pretty good. Probably worse was No. 6. I got a 4-putt there. Probably first time I ever 4-putted in a tournament, I guess. So I was in a little bit of -- yeah, really give me bad momentum there.   
 But I just trying to forget about it, and still many golf left. Try to go out and play best as I could. I know I starting going opposite instead of going, you know, right way.   
 But I know that I can do my best all round, and then keep that up and still making couple birdie and still feel like I'm having a chance. So like I said, it's kind of hard because you're right there and you just kind of lost couple shots easily. It's hard to get back it up.   
 But overall, I mean, I think basically I have a great week. I didn't get a trophy, but I'm still happy about the way I finish.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: If you could too, just talk about coming back after you had bogey, bogey, double bogey on holes 4, 5 and 6. And coming back out with your three birdies over the next four holes, what did that take?   
 SE RI PAK: Well, as I stay, really it can happen this golf course. You can shoot big number on one holes basically. Everybody can have it. You gonna be in trouble sometimes. You can't be always perfect.   
 But it's basically just probably just going the other momentum for me to get missing a little bit there, another up and down, and suddenly I got a 4-putt. That's really got me so bad.   
 But still I thought I could finish a good round. I mean, of course I'm here for the winning, but everybody fighting for the trophy. At the same time I know I'm still a little too back. It was pretty early to give up on it. I never give up on my games at all basically all my life basically. I never ever give up.   
 So trying to fight back again, and suddenly you have a chance. You have a chance to make some putt and suddenly better shot and second better again and back to the way it was. So I mean, that happens.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Questions for Se Ri.   
  
  Q. You played well enough to move yourself up in the Money List from 71 to probably in the top 40. Are you happy about that?  
 SE RI PAK: I'm not even thinking about the Money List actually. I'm trying to be here and playing golf and trying to be testing my game, too. Because all year, as I say, I don't play much all year and I don't really find my game yet.   
 But starting, you know, from a month ago I start striking well and putting actually a little bit hard time. But I'm getting back to enjoying golf.   
 Of course this is probably the best finish and I'm happy about that. But as I said, out here I find myself having a good enough to get back again.   
 So as I said, you never know. We still have a couple more tournaments left, so should do my best and finish as best I could.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: I know she says she doesn't care about the Money List, but with her second-place finish she becomes jsut the fifth player in LPGA Tour history to cross the $10 million mark in career earnings, so congratulations.  
  
  Q. I was just wondering, going into today with Yani having a 4-stroke lead, did you really think there was any chance with how well she played the first three days?  
 SE RI PAK: Golf, the seven strokes basically you can, you know, actually you can change it. You know, that happening. I mean, I know the four strokes is not really small leading, but I know that's going be happen to a seven-stroke basically.   
 But as I said, I know I'm kind of far back, but you never know. You can get a good shot and you can go really low score today and might be have a chance. I just try to go out there and try to play my own games. Actually I did.   
 I missed myself here and there giving a hard time trying to give a little testing myself I guess. But, yeah, it was really a playing fun today or whatever.   
  
  Q. Can you explain what happened on the 6th green? Did you misread it entirely? Did you mishit it?  
 SE RI PAK: Well, actually first putt I thought was pretty good. But actually doesn't really breaking the way I was thinking about it. Suddenly about six feet downhill, and then I saw it and it wasn't really break much. I was like left center putt, and then I hit it pretty good, too.   
 But I hit something actually kicked to the right, and then suddenly overall keep going and going and left me about another four feet.   
 Then I walk up and straight putt, and putting kick again to the right. So lately these greens so many players step on it and then spikes mark and greens just never been smooth. So I think that happen.  
  
  Q. So it started when you left that first putt substantially short?   
 SE RI PAK: It was. Yeah, it was short. As I said, I mean...  
  
  Q. The other thing was after that, the next time you're on the green, how do you try to regroup from that?   
 SE RI PAK: Well, best I can do is try to forget about like crooked putts. Of course not easy to do that, but it's only 6th hole. I'm still like 12 holes to go. I mean, too many golf. Kind of hard to not feel yourself be out there playing in it. You know, you still have to play 12 holes to go.   
 And many holes out there as you can really have make a chance. I mean, of course I missing two strokes away from one hole. That really hurting it.   
 But as I said, I just tell myself I don't think I'm going to give up on it. It's too early to say that. So I mean, as I said, I'm pretty much like strike well enough to get back again.   
 You know, this little bothers it. But as I said, it really doesn't bother too much at the same time.  
  
  Q. You had to battle today. You had numerous photographers taking pictures. I can think if hole 14. You're in the woods and you managed to get out of that situation. Do you see that as a positive or a negative getting to that second place result today? Is it something you achieved being able to battle through, or negative because you had to do that?  
 SE RI PAK: No, you know what, it's gonna be happen the tournament. He's not going to do purposely. It's hard to find a right timing. I know he feel bad about it. But at the same time, it's so important timing for me on 14.   
 But of course amazing how I stop it, too. That's really trying to get down harder and I heard it and I can't play it. But it's right timing. I stop it. He know and he was feel bad about it. As I say, if it's gonna be happening.   
 And then I was of course in the rough. Chip out and make a great up and down there which that was fair for me. That's really amazing for me to -- another great momentum.   
 So I know that he feels still bad about it, but I still feel happy about the way I'm finishing it. I'm already struggling enough to be catch up the leaders. But overall, I mean, it's okay.   
  
  Q. You had said yesterday that you felt that the person in the lead would have a lot of pressure on them. You also said there's pressure on everybody. But Yani was pretty upset and couldn't compose herself to come into this room to face questions. What would be your advice to her being only 19 years old and losing a 4-stroke lead in a tournament?  
 SE RI PAK: Well, that will happen. Not only her though. Happen to me and happen to whoever. Basically golf is never no guarantee. You're leading by seven stroke, five stroke, one stroke, really doesn't matter.   
 But for her, I know she was expecting, you know, today was really -- she play really well and I know she expecting really great situation. But I understand the moments. She only like 19 years old. This is probably great experience for her to know it's not gonna be -- this is not the last, you know. But many things happen. Whatever happens in the future.   
 So I think that everybody understand that for her out there is work really hard. Me and her, we just have one goal, everybody, just trying to get a win, get a trophy, and win the event every week.   
 So I think that's why more hurting her. She's in great shape and she tries too hard, and suddenly at the end overall she losing by whatever shot. But this is great experience.  
  
  Q. Do you think you and her and maybe a lot of players who were close on the scoreboard are feeling like they let one get away today, too?  
 SE RI PAK: It's kind of hard to say that. But as I said, it's can happen. Like I say, it's happen to me. I'm there so many times. Been really well control of like pressure, but it's happening.   
 To say sometimes you don't really have a great day, bad bounce, that's sort of happening. But as I said, we find -- some been good round, solid round, or just safe round get a trophy. Really you don't have to go really low either on the Sunday. As I said, it's happening.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT