CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2008
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Se Ri, congratulations on another great round. Your final birdie on 18 put you at -10 under and you're in second place. Can you just talk about your round and being in contention for tomorrow.  
 SE RI PAK: Well, all day, I mean, I was striking really well. I mean, I been putting, and last couple days being pretty good speed. One missed 3-putt today, but actually these greens really hard to make a bunch of putts.   
 But as along long as I got really striking well and my iron speed really well and off the tee was pretty good, so I think everything coming out together is really solid round.   
 I mean, last three days I'm not complaining at all. So I'm very exciting about that. Still one day to go, but hopefully tomorrow same as last three days. Hopefully play well and try to go as low as I could.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Absolutely. You're using a new putter this week. When did you decide to use that and why?   
 SE RI PAK: Why? Well, the reason was I really I a little trouble with my putting for the last couple weeks. I'm striking really well, but my putting is really giving hard time.   
 So I change like back to old putter, back to new putter, and old putter. Just so many like -- I don't know how many times I change it today, but I decided this week I got the new putter from Odyssey Putters.   
 So actually that basically worked really well I guess.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Questions for Se Ri.   
  
  Q. You're averaging about minus three and a half every day. Can you do it tomorrow, too?   
 SE RI PAK: Why not? I did it three days. But as I said, I mean, this golf course is so difficult to shoot low. But as long as I'm striking as last three days. Probably the putts working good, you know, get a better score.  
  
  Q. The pins seemed to be placed a lot harder than yesterday today. Did you notice that yourself, that the pins were more difficult on the greens?   
 SE RI PAK: Well, actually, these greens, I don't think anyplace is easier. Starting first day, same thing. But as I said, there's so many undulation in the green and they didn't have any much place to put the pin down.   
 All I just focus on is yardage and where to land it. I'm not really care about what exactly difficult or hard, just trying get my ball, next putt trying to get like as easy putt as i could.  
  
  Q. What about the public? Do you feel the people are really supporting you here in Ottawa?  
 SE RI PAK: Actually they're really nice. I mean, starting first round so many fans out here supporting the LPGA, and that's really exciting to happen. I don't think this much is -- yeah, Canada, I guess. I mean, this is probably as many fans out here I guess in the year.   
 You can see sometimes in the majors, but this is amazing. I was very exciting about that.  
  
  Q. Who is the pressure on tomorrow: the leader or the people trying to chase her?   
 SE RI PAK: I think that, well, you never know. But probably the pressure on the leaders basically is most. Chasing the leader basically got a lot more less pressure, so tomorrow hopefully trying to have a good round again.   
  
  Q. You're going to be playing with the leader tomorrow as opposed to being one group in front of her as you were today. Do you prefer that position, being able to, as you say, try to apply pressure to her face to face?  
 SE RI PAK: Well, actually, you know, we were there before many times. I was there before many times. But as I said, either with Annika or Lorena or any one of top players, we having -- not easy to play together, because we know they're still good players.   
 So as I said, sometimes one group behind is a lot easier. But tomorrow, well, if it happens, it happens. Tomorrow just go to go out and try to play my own game and hopefully do my best and hopefully have only fun tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Can you take us through the hole-in-one, just yardage, club selection, and were you surprised to see it go in?   
 SE RI PAK: It is very surprise to go in. That's the first time I got a hole-in-one in my career actually at a tournament. I do it in practice round twice, but this is the first time ever at a tournament I got the ace. I'm very exciting about that.   
 Of course you're not exacting anything like that. In Par 3s par is good and birdie is bonus. But basically you got the ace and, oh, my God, you're down to 2. That probably make may day, I guess.   
  
  Q. The fact that you were in front of Yani Tseng today, you must have heard something about what was going on behind you, or are you one to not look on the scoreboards?  
 SE RI PAK: I look on the scoreboard, but I'm pretty busy to play my game too. This golf course you never know, So I'm really focus on that.   
 I know I was making good putts and good shots out there, so I'm not really surprised at all. As I said, all day basically I have a really focus my game.   
  
  Q. What's improved in your game over the last little while to kind of get new a position to be a contender again?  
 SE RI PAK: I think every chance is very consistent. Actually off the tee from the fairway I got better control, and at the same time, as I say, last couple months actually I'm starting play really well.   
 I like the way I'm hitting and I like the way I play, but my putting is actually some reason giving me a little hard time. So I don't really make much putt. Even though I have great chance I don't really make the putt, so giving me a little hard time.   
 But these greens are not easy, but start making some actually giving you confidence. As I said, it's all about the confidence about it. I'm very happy about the game the last three days.  
  
  Q. Did you get a scholarship to study in the university in the States?  
 SE RI PAK: No.   
  
  Q. What age did you turn pro?  
 SE RI PAK: 19, after graduating high school.  
  
  Q. We have a case in Colombia, a young girl, last year 17 years of age, won the U.S. Amateur Championships. She also played very well in the U.S. Open this year. She's finished one year in Florida on a scholarship, and a lot of people in Colombia would like to know: Should she turn pro now or should she get her full scholarship and play another three years at the university and then turn pro? Do you have any advice not just for her, but for other young golfers?  
 SE RI PAK: Well, actually everything is up to her. But if she actually want to get her feature being pro, professional on tour, and she turn right now, actually it's pretty good.   
 Because the way she play she have confidence in her game, she spend more time on the tour with other players, like all great experience with the tour. I mean, it takes a little highly to used to it, so if she want to turn pro, which is like taking a job basically then, yes, of course.   
 But she don't really thinking about maybe turn pro, something else, and she just got a full scholarship and study for it.  
  
  Q. Do you hope that your experience is a factor tomorrow, that you've been in that position before?   
 SE RI PAK: Yeah, I mean, like I said, I was there many times. I won 25 times. Of course I have a great experience. But as I said, golf always been, you know, having a lot of pressure no matter what position.   
 So tomorrow of course I know how difficult it is, so she shoot really low too today. So I said, I can do tomorrow just do my best and try to enjoy the golf and enjoy the weather. Hopefully last round after 18 hopefully I giving a big smile.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT