HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
February 27, 2008
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN:  Thanks for coming in.  Welcome to Singapore.  Can you just talk a little bit about this new event on the LPGA schedule and how I'm sure you're gunning to win this week? 
 SE RI PAK:  Of course.  There's no question about it.  I'm here for the winning.  Probably everyone has the same goal. 
 This is different than a couple years of playing HSBC.  Basically before we played the Match Play, not that I have much luck for it, so hopefully this year brings a lot of luck. 
 I think it's better having the format, playing it, because all the best -- the field, best golfers all year long all challenging each other.  So I like having this right away. 
 MIKE SCANLAN:  Can you just talk about the course, what kind of shape it's in, and are you confident on this course? 
 SE RI PAK:  Actually I was here two years ago for the Lexus Cup actually.  I don't remember much about it then.  But it's in great shape, really great shape the golf course.  I remember last time I was here it was in great shape, too.  But I think the greens were firmer two years ago, but this year is being -- I don't know, maybe a couple days of rain on the greens maybe make it softer.  But it's in great shape and the weather is perfect, just a little hot, but it's not very hot at home.  But it looks like it's going to be a great golf course. 

 Q.  A lot of Asian rookies on the LPGA this year.  I think there's something like nine, four or five from South Korea.  As an experienced player, what general advice would you give to a rookie starting out in their debut season? 
 SE RI PAK:  Advice for them?  Why should I give them advice?  They're good (laughter). 
 I don't think there's much I can tell them.  Like I said, they are good.  They work hard.  They're very talented players. 
 I think the most important thing is try and enjoy the game.  That's one of the hardest things, to come out here and work hard.  The best time I've ever had at the golf course is having fun, but always putting on pressure, trying to play the best I could, give me a lot of attention, but that's going to make it harder.  But that's the advice I would give them, basically just trying to enjoy this life. 

 Q.  (Inaudible.) 
 SE RI PAK:  My clothing line?  I started it two years ago.  My sister has such great talent designing, so I started making my own clothes.  I'm testing the last two years basically, and then interesting about the lines, the colours, the design.  Basically everybody knows that golf clothing is pretty much the same.  It's kind of boring a little bit, the same design all the time, the same colours. 
 But I'm trying to make it a little bit more colourful because ladies, they are in great shape.  They are pretty, they're young, great shape.  Basically we can make them look better. 
 Of course the guys are stronger, they're hitting long, but the ladies make a difference.  They're playing good but at the same time look better.  So I started to make it a little bit, having more colourful, brighter, lighter materials and things like that.  Overall it's really doing well.  I'm going to have my line pretty soon in the market, starting probably this year, but so many people have thought interesting, so I'm pretty excited about that. 

 Q.  Who's designing them? 
 SE RI PAK:  My sister basically, she designed everything.  She designed the colours, she designed the clothes and picking the fabrics and colours, matching everything up.  She did a lot of work. 

 Q.  One thing I noticed about the way a lot of lady golfers dress, when you swing through, a little bit of the belly is showing.  How do you feel about that? 
 SE RI PAK:  I don't like that. 

 Q.  I think there's a picture outside of you with your belly showing, as well? 
 SE RI PAK:  I don't like to show my belly, but sometimes things look different.  Personally I don't like to see my belly.  Of course, if you're in great shape, it's okay, but I don't think I have a great fit. 

 Q.  So is your clothing line just going to be for domestic distribution in Korea? 
 SE RI PAK:  It's going to be around the world, but I'm going to start at the U.S. first and then back to Asia.  But it depends.  Right now still a couple things coming along. 

 Q.  What's the name of the line? 
 SE RI PAK:  Probably S is my initials.  Probably going to be like Se Ri Collection.  We haven't decided exactly the name of the brand, but basically it's my name.  It will be collection of Se Ri or something with my name on it. 

 Q.  Nice logo, by the way. 
 SE RI PAK:  Thank you. 

 Q.  Just staying on that same theme, how important -- given that golf is growing globally, how important is the glamour aspect of women's golf, for women to look colourful or to look good in their clothes?  How important is that to grow the game globally? 
 SE RI PAK:  I think that -- I don't know how much it's important for the new fashions, but I think every year is making something new idea or something different all year long.  But golf, everybody knows golf basically, such a beautiful golf course and such great weather and people.  It's a lot more worldwide game now.  Before the American people it was a lot easier to go out and have fun with the family and friends, but Asia was basically a little bit behind it. 
 But now more just getting along, great public force right now.  So overall, a little bit of golf is a little safer, make you feel a real gentle game, manners, things like that.  But basically fashion -- you can have fun at the same time.  Golf is a great sport.  At the same time you design clothes for the same thing. 
 So I think it's going to match -- will be great.  I think it's going to help with ladies' golf in the future.  Of course we can't always catch the guys because they're strong always and they're hitting long and you can see them hit great shots from everywhere, but the women lately, such a young age, great shape, they're prettier and now we're better designing clothes to make them a lot more perfect, something different than guys.  I think that will help.  I wish it would help (laughter). 

 Q.  Just going back to the tournament, who do you think are the contenders to watch?  Who do you think are going to be the people up there to win the HSBC? 
 SE RI PAK:  Well, we've got 78 players in the field this week?  I think all of them have chances, but everybody knows already Lorena had such a great year for two years and Annika just came back in such great shape, and Karrie. 
 Young players, basically Natalie, Paula is there, so it's hard to pick who's going to be on top.  Everybody is expecting that Top 5 you can pick in the field, so hopefully I'll be somewhere in the Top 5. 
 MIKE SCANLAN:  Se Ri, thanks a lot for coming in.  Good luck this week. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT