LONGS DRUGS CHALLENGE
October 5, 2007
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Thanks for coming in and joining us today.  Great round out there.  You've had two sub-par rounds on a very difficult golf course.  How does it feel to come out here and do that and to be as high on the leaderboard as you are entering the weekend?   
 SE RI PAK:  Well, basically it's not easy.  I mean, yesterday and today, actually I played pretty hard.  I didn't hit it solid but it was okay, I made great putts, a couple of putts earlier yesterday.   
 Then today, I had great opportunities that I missed and I missed a couple shots.  As I said, this golf course is really difficult, especially with the wind and a lot of undulations, and the greens are hard.  It's not easy.  But, I mean, I feel great about it and I know it's still not easy for me to think about it, but I was having fun out there.  Trying to relax as much as I could.  I mean, too much going on because of the wind, the greens.  It's such a different golf course than we are used to playing.  So I was just trying to think as simple as I could.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Are you playing the Asian events following Samsung next week in Korea and Thailand?   
 SE RI PAK:  Yes.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  How does this course get you ready?  Are there different elevations and winds on those Korean and Thai courses?   
 SE RI PAK:  Actually the Korean events, a lot of winds and a lot of undulations, too.  But I think it's a great chance to practice earlier.   
 Asia, especially Korea, there's a lot of wind, really like difficult wind, left-to-right and huge right-to-left.  And if you're wide open on the golf course, you're in a lot of trouble out there.  But I think that it's great preparation this week for Asia.   
  
  Q.  Is this kind of an interesting spectator course; because there are not a lot of people on certain holes, does that affect the way you play?  Do you like not having the crowd in some places?  How do you feel about this course as a tournament course?   
 SE RI PAK:  For me I like having a lot of fans out there, I'm really happy to have it.   
 For us, it's really -- some holes it's really affecting it.  A lot of undulations, especially like 12, we have to choose distance-wise, like long irons and the undulations are like 40 yards, 30 yards downhill.  So basically you're back to the short irons and mid-irons and it makes a huge difference.   
 It's fun.  It's a different game but it's not easy.  Actually it's a challenging golf course.  Sometimes we need those kind of conditions on the golf course, but not all at time.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  I know you had a big birthday a couple of weeks ago.   
 SE RI PAK:  (Giggling).   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  A new era of your life, as a lot of American females look at turning 30; did it mark anything symbolic for you?   
 SE RI PAK:  Actually I feel like different than when I was in my 20s.  It's not exactly changing anything, but I talk to my friends or caddies and coach, and they say, 29, 30, it's a big difference.  Now I'm going to be hurting more, my back and now I'm getting sore in my shoulder and getting older.  It does make a difference.   
 But I feel great and I feel I'm more mature.  I think my mind is a lot more positive-thinking than when I was younger.  I feel great.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Thank you, Se Ri.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT