HSBC WOMEN'S WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 17, 2007
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Se Ri Pak is here.  She is fresh off of her fifth win at the Jamie Farr Owens Corning Classic, and you are one of only three women in the entire history of the LPGA Tour who has ever accomplished that feat, and that includes Mickey Wright and Annika Sorenstam.  After that win and coming here, how are you feeling about your game?   
 SE RI PAK:  It feels great actually.  I played nine holes this morning.  I feel so great, the same person, basically nothing has changed.   
 There's lots of changes out there, the golf course.  A couple years -- well, a two-year gap, but a lot of changes out there, a lot more longer, firmer greens, perfect conditions.  It just makes it a lot more tougher.  But the way I'm playing, especially last week I had such a great week, so it feels great to be back.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about the difference between match play and stroke play?   
 SE RI PAK:  Match play is a lot different than stroke play, especially the hole-by-hole, which is a lot more stressful and not so difficult to play.   
 I mean, with golf, you never know.  I feel really great about it.  Actually I don't get a chance to play too much match play.  But actually every year I -- well, we play a couple of times and now I'm getting used to it.  So hopefully have a good week this week.   
  
  Q.  When the bracket comes out, do you look at who you could be matched up against in the first round and do you look at it like that, or do you sort of take it day-by-day depending on who is in front of you, or what the tournament will look like down the road?   
 SE RI PAK:  Basically, all of the players here this week is great players.  It doesn't make a difference.  They are all the top in the points and the rankings basically.   
 Match play and stroke play, it's a different thing.  I know it doesn't matter who I play with.  Just basically, just every -- I mean, every match is going to be important.  It doesn't matter who I play.  It just doesn't mean anything.  So just go out there and do my best and have some fun and it will be great.   
  
  Q.  Do you come into a tournament like this with more confidence than usual after a win on the Tour?   
 SE RI PAK:  Definitely.  Basically '07, already I feel great about it.  All year long, I've played great and a couple times I was close to win.  But I think overall, '07 is very special and a very exciting year.  I don't know why, but I feel really great and it's lots of fun out there each week.  And finally I won last week, it was a pretty good week.  My game was solid and I was strong in my mind.   
 Doesn't matter how good you play in match play, you can still lose, but I feel great.   
  
  Q.  Before you started on the LPGA Tour, did you play a lot of match play in Korea, or is it something that, you know, still you haven't played a lot of even at this stage in your career?   
 SE RI PAK:  Basically we don't really have much chance to play match play.  Basically our country, golf is basically just stroke play and we played four rounds, three rounds there each day every week.  So match play, we don't really have a chance to play it.   
 So like I said, I don't much know about it because I don't even have time to get used to it.  But every year we play in it just helps a lot.  It's a totally different game but actually I like it.  It's a different feeling and it's fun, a fun game.  I know it's lot of stressful out there when you are out there, but it's a really fun game.  Sometimes it's probably great to have something different.   
  
  Q.  In the limited time that you have been able to play match play, what are some of the things that you've learned that maybe you try to adjust in your game to accommodate match play versus stroke?   
 SE RI PAK:  I think a lot more -- mentally you have to be more focused on it, because very important every shot.  Basically stroke play is the same way.  Basically it costs one stroke and you can lose by one stroke which is not a lot.  I think it's more important to play one shot at a time.  Basically you're really not going to think of the whole thing in your game.  Basically every tee shot is important, but if you have to focus on the tee shot and then the next shot and then the putting, that's pretty hard to do.  In stroke play usually you have all weekend to go and next day is better day maybe.  You know, you have a lot of chances to make your situation better.  But in match play you never have a chance.  Mentally your mind has to be very sometimes ready for it and it's difficult to play.  It's a lot of stress.  There's a lot of pressure but pretty much if you want to take care of that, how much pressure you have you just have to be more focused.   
  
  Q.  With the conditions the way they are this week and with the match-play format, do you think this tournament maybe favors a certain type of player over another, like a good putter, a good driver?   
 SE RI PAK:  I think today, first time I played, been a year and a half or two years, but they change a lot of the holes I think.  The tees are a lot more longer and fairways are a little wider than before, but a lot more longer.  At the same time, the greens are softer and then bigger and a lot of undulations so I think every shot is pretty important.   
 Basically some longer players maybe have some good opportunities, but I think all shots are going to be very important.  Not only the tee shots and not only the second shots.  With these greens and this course, you have to have your whole game working for you, otherwise it's going to be tough out there.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Thank you all for coming in.  Se Ri, good luck this week.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT