U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 1, 2007
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  What a wonderful finish, you birdied three out of the last four holes, 68.  You're the first one in the clubhouse at 2-under par.  You started to get it going today, did you feel like you might have a chance?   


SE RI PAK: Well, actually, basically I'm starting what? Third round, actually, and I felt great about it. And you never know, the weather and the golf course conditions are not easy. So many things happen.   



 So I knew I have a chance.  I worked really hard.  And then I really am fighting for all day long.  Basically two rounds for under par, which was pretty good for this golf course, I'm really happy about it, but I wish I do it earlier.   
  
  Q.  Not too long ago, not too many years ago, you were pretty burned out on golf?   
 SE RI PAK:  Right.  Basically two years ago, I think.   
  
  Q.  And now here you are again challenging in Major Championships.   
   SE RI PAK: Yes. Well, I realize that I'm a human being, basically. I work seven years only for my game, basically, I never have a break. And as I said, just being so much giving myself even pressure every each week, trying to win so badly and work so hard without a break.   



 So I'm basically, I don't know what happened, just really I'm not happy person, I don't really enjoy playing golf and totally I am burned out.  And I got injured and totally I can't even play golf.  So basically since that I realize that it was what was most important was taking care of myself.  Instead of come out here, win each week.  Because I think everybody has the same goal.  But I know it's not easy, it's not going to happen.   
 But I know how good I am and I think I can do it, just keeping so much pressure on me though.  So I know that that would happen.   
 And so I said, takes about seven years to learn it, so.  But anyway, I just learned it.  And I find out that I have more of a break now and this is first time ever for myself really having fun out there and this is really what I want.  And I want to play well.  So I know I'm still kind of trying to fighting for the winning, but I have a so much golf left.  So it's not really a bother.  So I just kind of think about next week and then after and after.  So one shot at a time.  That really helps a lot.   
  
  Q.  Of all your achievements in golf, what's happened here this week might be the greatest one of all.  35 Koreans teeing up in this championship, 24 of them making the cut.  What does it feel like to be the queen of a revolution in your own country?   
   SE RI PAK: Well, first of all it's a lot of pressure on me. Basically because I'm one of the big sister for them. And probably because of that I'm a role model for them.   



 So I have to show them the way.  That makes me a lot of pressure on it.  But now basically they are already good enough and they all work so hard.  And so I'm very proud of it.  And I'm proud for myself and proud of them and I wish I stand beside them.  I mean, this is one of my younger sisters, baby sisters.   
  
  Q.  Where I come from, Australia, it's the biggest golfing nation outside of America.  Korea is the best women's golfing nation outside of America.  We have great golf courses, cheap access, great weather, you don't have any of those.  Why is it?   
   SE RI PAK: Well, because we have four seasons. And then maybe this is one of the reasons why we play so well because we have so much hard conditions and always they used to play in those hard conditions. That's why they come over here and it's a perfect condition for each week. So that's why I think that they learn quicker than and they're improving a lot.   
  
  Q.  I spoke to Amy and she says it's simply because the Koreans practice more, that it's something in your character that makes you more determined.   
   SE RI PAK: Well, everybody practices hard. But I think the culture-wise, I don't know, it's such a small country, but we're always working so hard for it. I mean that means some countries having hardly work hard at all, but we're used to being that way, because we don't have the great conditions to play or practice. But now we have perfect conditions, so we come out and practice as many as we could.     
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT