SYBASE CLASSIC PRESENTED BY SHOPRITE
May 17, 2007
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   PAM WARNER:  Great round out there, currently tied for the lead at 4-under, just talk about you how played today.   
 SE RI PAK:  Actually I didn't know that I was tied for the lead.  I played great today.  Actually first I all I was starting bad and I got right back and another bad shot on the third hole for me, which is 12.   
 Last couple of weeks I've been really feeling great and striking the ball really well.  But for some reason my putting -- I'm putting really well and just my ball can't find a hole; that's the problem.  I didn't make much birdie but that was the problem -- giving me basically a hard time but today, I think same thing, I'm putting solid and it feels great.  I'm really comfortable and really having fun out there, but my ball is falling in the hole so basically better score today.   
  
  Q.  I gather you just said you don't look at the leaderboard as well, I'm gathering that's something players go through, Brittany was just in here and said the same thing; do you ever know when you're up there without looking at it?   
 SE RI PAK:  Really doesn't matter.  I know the first day is so important how we start it.  But actually still have three days to go.  Today especially the golf course I played two days, the greens is really difficult.  I mean, fairways okay.  You miss here and there but the greens, I mean, you're hitting good putts, still just falls level right; exactly putting in the same spot, one go left, one go right.  So basically giving that much harder time on the greens so basically never really realize how good a score is going to be today.   
 But for me today the same thing, just go out there.  It's a solid round and finally a couple you know balls drop and finally I got, you know, better score, but I say, never knew that and just, you know, the scores keep changing it.  So don't really care too much out there.   
  
  Q.  It's just really important to get a good start for the rest of the weekend?   
 SE RI PAK:  Right.   
  
  Q.  I was following Lorena and I think she was coming up 6 and you were maybe at 4.  I remember looking at the leaderboard and you were even.   
 SE RI PAK:  I saw her finish at 5.  I don't know if she finished at 5 but I saw her she was pretty good start again.   
 For me, I was hitting there and still good putt and still didn't find any holes and finally last five or six holes actually start making a lot of putts, basically got a good score.  But it's first round.  I'm happy with the way I finished today but I'm still three days to go so hopefully last three round is as good day as today.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about the last five holes?   
 SE RI PAK:  Actually last five, six holes, I actually making really close, to the pin.  I got perfect drive and perfect second shot, probably with inside ten feet, some were within seven feet but I make a couple of them.  Definitely I finish them pretty good at the end.   
  
  Q.  When you look at the field this week, there are 30 women from South Korea in the tournament.  That's got to make you feel pretty good considering probably a lot of them looked up to you when you see that.   
 SE RI PAK:  The last three or four years, I've been really huge in number from Korea and they are all young, under 20.  And well, actually, yeah, they come to U.S. because of basically, well, that's because of me though.   
 But earlier I was kind of having a little pressure on it because it seems like I'm the big sister.  So I have to show them how good it is, to look how good I am to do that, and just maybe too much going on for myself.   
 But overall, they are doing really, really great job.  I'm very proud of them.  They are younger man my baby sisters, too.  They are, all of them, they are such a great talent players and they work hard, and I'm really happy to see that happen the last five, four years.   
 But yeah, it is pretty good things happen at the LPGA and at the same time, I'm very proud of them, too.   
  
  Q.  You're tied at the top with Brittany and Lorena; being that Lorena is the world No. 1, when you go out tomorrow for your round, is that going to be playing in the back of your mind knowing how she can get on a roll?   
 SE RI PAK:  Well, the golf you never know until four round, 18, after you take your glove off.  So three days, I know she's right now in the hunt every week.  But my game, I know how close it is and I was there before.   
 So I just do my best every single time, and a shot at a time.  Still three days to go hopefully I have three good rounds and see on Sunday.   
 PAM WARNER:  Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT