MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP MEDIA DAY
May 16, 2007
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q.  Could you just talk about your season to date, how you're playing and how you're feeling? 
 SE RI PAK:  '07 season is so far, so good.  Actually I had a couple great chances to win earlier, but I guess I kind of had to wait in the McDonald's.  Otherwise I feel great.  '07 feels great, and after I won last year and I have my confidence get back, so everything is all cool. 

 Q.  How does it feel to be playing well again after having that down spell a couple of years ago? 
 SE RI PAK:  I actually feel great.  I mean, like I have such a great success career earlier, but I feel like I'm more mature, I feel like a lot more stronger, I feel more like I'm having fun out there.  It's just different.  But this is really even better than last -- I mean, last couple years. 

 Q.  When you go through a stretch like you did, does it make you appreciate when you then win something like McDonald's last year?  Does it make you appreciate the high points more? 
 SE RI PAK:  Of course.  I mean, everybody goes through all those up-and-downs in the years.  I mean, everybody goes through that.  But I said, I think one of the points, a two-year gap.  It seems like I totally found myself and found more game, and now I'm more enjoying my game.  So basically overall last year I won the McDonald's.  Basically I'm turning right on point.  McDonald's aside, just somehow so special event.  That's my first time won on the LPGA career, and I won haven't last few years and came back winning the McDonald's, and this year I get into the Hall of Fame.  So this year is really something for me. 

 Q.  You need to play in three more events to get to the Hall of Fame.  Do you plan to have that last event be the McDonald's? 
 SE RI PAK:  Yeah, that's going to be McDonald's.  Anyhow, it arrives at the perfect time, too.  I mean, that couple of weeks is going to be very exciting, a little bit exciting, a little bit nervous.  Really, I can't wait until it came that week. 

 Q.  Does it make it more special being that was where you got your first career win? 
 SE RI PAK:  It was, it was.  I mean, everybody asking what tournament is going to be your tenth event, but I figure somehow it's just right, perfect time.  At the same time, I said, this is very -- something.  This McDonald's is going to be really special, because like I said, my first win McDonald's, and second I won and third times, and basically third time, that was a rough year and came back winning the McDonald's.  And this is my tenth event, McDonald's, and I really officially get into the Hall of Fame.  So basically it's something very, very special. 

 Q.  Do you find yourself enjoying the whole experience of being a professional golfer more than you used to? 
 SE RI PAK:  I am, yes, I am.  I guess I know I have so much winning before I have a great many years, but I don't think I never, ever enjoyed it.  But since last year and this year, it's been totally different.  I know my game is not quite as great as before, but I know it gets real close, but it's fun.  It's very exciting and fun to play events every week, and I like being out here again, which is very different. 

 Q.  You were talking about having fun now, but before you said it was stressful and now it's fun.  What made the change from stressful to fun? 
 SE RI PAK:  I have no idea how (laughing).  I think I was really -- the person I am, I want to be like really perfection, you know?  I mean, I raise myself to expectations so high and now every week I'm trying to won every week and be as good as I could.  But that make it so much more to giving pressure.  Nobody has given me any pressure.  Seems like I'm the one giving pressure out there myself wanting to win so badly.  I guess that makes it, I guess, heavy the other way.  These girls out there, have fun, enjoy it, do better.  I don't think I ever enjoyed it so much trying to win so badly, and finally I don't think it was fun.  I was always so focused, so hard, and never even take care of myself. 
 But now I care about myself more and trying to make it better for my game, which is realize out there, have some fun.  I don't think you can make it any worse.  I think you can make it helpful. 
 So I said after only two years I've had so much rough year, but that's a lot of things I need to learn. 

 Q.  I saw you after the third round you were taking care of some Ronald McDonald House kids, and you said, "I'll see you Sunday," and that was like two rounds to go, and that shot that you made, we used it on our promotional film, how do you make a shot against Karrie Webb?  Tell us, how great was that shot?  If that wasn't pressure and money, I don't know what is. 
 SE RI PAK:  I mean, golf is never know.  I'm not really trying to make that shot that perfect.  I mean, that's probably one of my lifetime perfect shot, how many times I can count it.  I know I was so many times.  Pretty much everything sometimes comes out perfectly, winning and make some birdies and stuff like that.  But that shot, if I really think too much, it's just really simple.  My position is really not easy shot there, so all I need to get up there and try and make a par, maybe have one more hole to go, maybe have a chance, just make myself as comfortable as I could and just do my best.  It's a shot at a time, and then suddenly come out really perfectly shot, so that's what I think about it. 

 Q.  I was wondering what you thought of the donation of $100,000 that Mi Hyun Kim gave to the tornado victims last week? 
 SE RI PAK:  I mean, that's really grateful.  If I were in that situation I would have done probably the same thing.  I was thinking about it, Virginia Tech, or yeah, Kansas City or Toledo, I was thinking about it.  But she was a really great job, and probably I was trying to have that, too.  So hopefully have a great week to have this charity.  So many things we can do the better. 
 She got a really great chance to choose that, to make donation for 50 percent of the money prize.  So that was a really great move.  I really appreciate it for her, too. 

 Q.  What did winning the Heather Farr Award last year mean to you coming from your peers like that? 
 SE RI PAK:  That seems to be one of those that really means a lot to me because I feel like really we're working for the LPGA.  I've been here really about ten years, and I know so many players -- basically I know all of them.  But golf is very difficult game, but still, that moment seems like almost like a team and a family, and then everybody see it as golf course and they really like it.  Everybody say hi, and everybody was really care about me, not only because who am I.  I mean, just basically as family and friends. 
 Really, that's one that makes me really happy to be back on the LPGA Tour again are the members. 

 Q.  Do you still think a lot about what happened at McDonald's last year?  Do you replay that shot in your mind a lot? 
 SE RI PAK:  Of course.  I'm thinking about all the great shots there.  That was pretty much a turning point for myself to be back in my game again, so basically, yes, I'm very excited to be out there again, and I just can't wait.  Always I think about the McDonald's, the event, it makes me smile.  I really do love it. 

 Q.  How about schedule in terms of between now and the first full week in June, tournaments that you'll be in? 
 SE RI PAK:  I take next week off, and I play Ginn's and McDonald's and basically a week off and two weeks events and then a week off.  So basically I'm prepared for the McDonald's.  I'm going to take next week off.  I'm ready to go. 

 Q.  How about the difference between Bulle Rock and DuPont, when you won the championship? 
 SE RI PAK:  Personally I do love DuPont.  I like the golf course up there, I do like it.  Bulle Rock actually is good.  It's still in great shape, and I know the conditions make a difference.  But both of them is different.  I mean, you have to really play really smart out there.  It depends on the wind, but yeah, it's totally different conditions, different golf course. 
 But personally I do like the old one.  I don't know, I wanted for the Bulle Rock, so I guess I still like it there, too.  Don't ask me.  That's too much of a difficult question. 

 Q.  Could you talk a little bit about in the ten years you've been out here how the LPGA has changed?  Now you have Lorena Ochoa is No. 1 and Annika has been hurt, but you have all these young women, Morgan Pressel winning.  Could you talk about that, about the transformation since you've been out here? 
 SE RI PAK:  Yeah, actually you know what, I already know that the last four years they've been change a lot.  Most players now, they are working out, they're trying to get in great shape, and they work hard.  But yeah, last four years, they're such a young age come out and play, they play well.  The field is getting stronger.  I think that's pretty good.  I mean, we knew what was going to be happen, but yeah, we really didn't realize it's going to be kind of moving so quick, faster.  That really makes great things happen. 

 Q.  You're being inducted into the Hall of Fame, but a lot of us find it hard to believe you're not even 30 years old yet.  What do you have left as far as goals and achievements you'd like to have on the Tour? 
 SE RI PAK:  This is my biggest goal, to get into the Hall of Fame.  That was the biggest goal, so I jumped on it pretty much right away.  The next goal, trying to -- I'm always kind of a little behind Annika, always second place, second place, but I'd really like to be No. 1 place sooner or later.  So that's one of the second goals, Player of the Year. 
 One of the other things, I know this is not really easy to get my goal, but I just want to win a major, four majors for the year.  I know that's not going to be taking or happening, but I'm going to try. 
 JIM MURRAY:  Thank you, guys, for participating.  She's the ultimate Happy Meal, guys.  She's the best. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT