KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 31, 2007
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   SE RI PAK:  First hole, I got three-quarter nine, about 20 feet, 25 feet for birdie from 112.   
 4, I missed the fairway to the right and I got 9-iron actually just short of the front edge about 35 feet.   
 13, I got three-quarter 7, 146, three-quarter 7.  Actually I got the pin, it almost went in, about three like and a half feet and made birdie.   
 15 was my first bogey for the day.  I hit pitching wedge, came out a little short and came down about four or five.  So I did putt it from the fringe and left me short about 6, 7 feet and I just missed it for bogey.   
 No. 17, I got three-quarter 6-iron over the green, actually bad lie from the rough.   
 18, I got 85 yards to the pin.  I hit sand wedge to about 32, 33 feet downhill.  I saw Shi Hyun Ahn making the putt so should I follow exactly what she is doing, so I made it.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  You had a great round, they are finishing up right now, so, I mean, are you waiting to see what's going to happen?  It could be your career Grand Slam.   
 SE RI PAK:  Feels great.  First round, second round, third round, it's about the same.  It's not really different than anything.  I don't really have very much pressure because I've been here many, many times.  Part of my mind was really I need some game plan but I just wanted to give myself -- not a lot of pressure.  I just want to do the same as the last three rounds, go out, have fun and one shot at a time.   
 It's just go out and have a good day.   
  
  Q.  How good is a round of 70 out there right now, and did you think that would be good enough for the lead today?   
 SE RI PAK:  I think, yes.  Starting even par is a good number.  Out there just so much trouble and on the greens, around the green, off the tee, I mean, the rough is really long right now and the greens you can't stop -- can't really stop at the pin.  I'm trying to hit short irons, to get it close as I good, it's not going to happen.   
 So it's pretty good number.  I'm really happy with the round.  I know I had some bogeys but everybody going to have bogeys.   
  
  Q.  It seems like there's a lot of disasters, the players are finding today; Lorena had a quadruple bogey at the 17th and there were double-bogeys and everything.  You managed to avoid a double-bogey at 17 with a good 2-putt.  Is the back nine the last stretch of holes really playing that difficult?   
 SE RI PAK:  That's the most key swing in this event.  Last four or five holes, really difficult.  It's not easy.  So as long as you're making par or even bonus is a birdie, that was great.  I got last three rounds, I didn't have too much mistake out there.  I know I'm going to have some bogeys but I'm still going to take it.  I'm real happy to make bogeys on some shots out there.  Just many shots, you never know.   
  
  Q.  It looks like things are getting very firm out there, the greens in particular.  Can you talk about what it was like the last few holes coming in, 18 in particular?   
 SE RI PAK:  Especially 18, I really -- last two rounds, last two days, basically the tees were moved up very, very forward.  So hit a really good drive off the tee, and I got a number actually I can go for the greens, but either way, either way you're going to -- on the green and probably just going to be fall off the green in the back side of the hazard, or really -- there's no real chance about it.  I'd really like to go but these greens are getting really hard.  I guess this is the hardest green they have ever had.   
 It's to the easy, very stressful, every single shot.  But it's really fun.  I know that most majors really make difficult conditions, but they are already difficult but they are making greens harder.  Some holes to the really accept it -- 17, there's no way, that's really ridiculous.  But otherwise, it's really great golf course.  This is really unbelievable golf course.   
  
  Q.  I was going to ask, 17, it looked like you hit a pretty good shot into that green and you end up in a place that --   
 SE RI PAK:  Right.   
  
  Q.  It's buried, very difficult.  Was the chip because you were afraid you were going to run past or did you just not have a good --   
 SE RI PAK:  Just not really great lie there.  All I need to carry, like two steps from the green.  Basically it's pretty much not difficult shot, but the way the lie was making really difficult and you're over that big hump probably off the green between.   
 So 17 is really hard, too.  Not easy.   
  
  Q.  How much longer was your first putt than your chip was?   
 SE RI PAK:  How much longer?   
  
  Q.  Your chip was like, what, 25 feet and the putt was 40?   
 SE RI PAK:  Well, actually, yeah, around like.  Yeah, it's not easy out there.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Thank you all for coming in.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT