KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 30, 2007
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MODERATOR:  We're going to go over your scorecard real quick.  So start on the back 9, I believe. 
 SE RI PAK:  I started on the back.  I got No. 12, my first bogey.  I missed the fairway on the left, was short.  I thought it was smart to use my putter, but I turned up short again, so left me about 10 feet for par.  I missed it. 

 Q.  How far on the fringe, when you said you were short, were you? 
 SE RI PAK:  Four or five feet.  1 over, finish.  And first had a perfect tee shot.  And was it 1 -- about a 9-iron, three-quarter 9-iron, left me about like 9, 10 feet again. 
 My birdie.  And all the pars, right? 

 Q.  Was 3 a birdie? 
 SE RI PAK:  Where did I make birdie?  On 3.  Yes. 
 (Laughter) 
 Actually, I didn't put my score down.  No. 3, yes, three-quarter, 7, about 27 feet and my birdie there.  And all pars.  No. 9.  I got 93 -- 95 to the pin.  I got sand wedge about three and a half feet on my birdie. 

 Q.  You had a great round out there especially in these conditions and you said you're really calm, really relaxed.  Can you just talk about being in that mode and being very close to the top right now? 
 SE RI PAK:  I think because I have a couple of years I was off the track, which is kind of disappointing.  My game, I don't really like about the golf and finally starting last year get back again.  It feels great.  And I really enjoyed playing golf. 
 This year is totally different than ever.  I feel like this is the first time ever I feel sort of great.  I feel like I'm ready all the time.  I feel excited to play on the course.  And at the same time I have a lot of confidence. 
 My swing's getting pretty close to where I want.  So it really feels -- whether I play good or better doesn't mean anything.  Just really great to come out.  So that's different than any years. 

 Q.  Se Ri, I keep hearing reports that you're sneaking out here and playing rounds of golf over the last couple of months on this golf course.  Is that an indication now how important it is for you to win this golf tournament? 
 SE RI PAK:  Actually, I played this golf tournament so many times before that.  I played like 10 years.  But I think I see it different right now.  I learned a lot of strategy on how to play the golf course better. 
 I get back from the slump, like struggling a couple of years.  Now I feel a difference.  Off the tee like more clear shot and a lot of confidence.  More comfortable with the golf course.  That makes a difference, I guess, because even though I won so many times some years, I don't really, some of the tours don't really feel comfortable.  But now I feel so comfortable.  It doesn't really bother anything for me.  I am just really having fun out there with my caddie and all the friends and players so that's different. 

 Q.  You've played this a number of times.  I think you've only had one top 10 finish in this event.  How do you explain that and winning -- 
 SE RI PAK:  Actually, I was saying yesterday, too, I finished even par.  Probably this is the best first round I've ever had in this tournament.  These events always having so much hard time for me.  I don't know why.  I played so many times here already but won't really help too much. 
 Sometimes you know the golf course so well going the other way because you have so much playing at the golf course.  But this golf course I don't even know why or what happened, but this year probably -- so I'm starting off the season I talked to my coach and my friends and everybody asked me how do you feel in '07?  I said you know what it's going to be great.  Probably the best ever years I've ever had already.  Because I said I feel really ready.  And I'm ready to play.  And it's very exciting.  So it doesn't matter how good I am.  Doesn't matter how I'm thinking just being a real comfortable season. 

 Q.  Is this the hardest set-up for this course that you've seen since you've started playing here this year and maybe that has something to do with it? 
 SE RI PAK:  I think pretty much always the same conditions, as I said.  Always rough is long.  Greens, probably getting more firmer so it's making more difference.  Tees will move back a couple tees, which maybe some holes are better. 
 So as I say this golf course has never been easier.  It's probably the same thing I realize how difficult this golf course is, but I do like it this year. 

 Q.  Do you come to this tournament each year the last several years thinking about the career Grand Slam? 
 SE RI PAK:  Oh, yeah.  I plan for this all year long, even finish for next year.  But I need to have my own career goals.  But it's pretty hard.  I'm just setting the goal myself trying to get there.  I mean how difficult -- a lot of pressures out there and pressure myself and trying to play as good as I could but this game is really, sincerely, the golf game is really a silly game. 
 So I always don't forget about getting my own career Grand Slam, but probably some day.  I mean it could be this year.  It could be the next year.  But I know it doesn't matter how much I push myself to get into it.  But this year I already feel comfortable. 
 Just one shot at a time.  It does make a difference. 

 Q.  Along those lines, when did you first think about Grand Slam, did you do it after your rookie year when you won the two, or was it not until after you won the British Open that you started thinking about it? 
 SE RI PAK:  I already started thinking about it all my career, starting '98 I won the two majors, not because I won two majors, but probably part of my goal, too.  Get many tournaments, I won, I actually wish.  And many majors occurred.  And one of them Grand Slam, which feels great.  And me and my coaches -- I don't know if it's going to be possible, but are trying to get one year for all majors, is going to be the biggest, but I know it's going to be really hard.  I don't know I can do it in real life.  But that's one of the goals, too. 
 But I'm always setting myself to biggest goal I could and make me a lot more stronger and makes me a lot more work to do.  So I really like that. 

 Q.  Can you explain kind of what you mean by really ready this year and maybe if there's some examples that could help us out and kind of understanding how you're ready? 
 SE RI PAK:  Most is I'm -- I'm very, having fun, actually.  That's what I really want to do when I play the TOUR, am I having fun, first of all it does make a difference. 
 And now I see a lot of confidence about my swing, which is every week I don't have to worry about what to work on, what not to work.  Just kind of stressful all the time.  But not anymore. 
 And just comfortable.  '07 feels really comfortable.  '07, new season.  I know it's still going to be the same as any years.  But it's a lot more comfortable.  This makes the difference of any year.  I never feel some kind of calm and exciting and fun.  I won so many times years and always ready for the next year.  But I still have a hard time getting into it.  But just now more comfortable, relaxed out there, talk to all the friends and fans and that makes a difference. 

 Q.  The strategy of starting the year a little bit earlier in Hawaii, is that making a difference at all this week? 
 SE RI PAK:  It is actually, but first, for a long time, I didn't play in Hawaii.  When I played there actually resulted wasn't as great as I was thinking.  I was happy to play the two events.  Always helps a lot. 
 The conditions in Hawaii is not easy.  So windy.  And (indiscernible), just make it a lot more concentrated in my games and seems like a lot more easier to planning, the winds, the bad conditions.  So it does. 

 Q.  Have you thought much about the Hall of Fame induction ceremony this year? 
 SE RI PAK:  All that talk kind of makes me nervous.  You know what, this is the part where the dream comes true.  Before I came to U.S., planning getting to the Hall of Fame is wonderful.  When I was setting my goals, impossible goal at the time, but I've done it.  And basically it's a dream come true.  So '04 finally get all the points on it, and I still have two and a half years to go.  So probably don't think about it.  And then finally '07 it's this year, I just kind of feel a little weird. 
 I feel like somehow just kind of nervous about it and at the same time very excited about it.  And all the friends, they send me great flowers, really unbelievable.  And all the fans keep asking me about (indiscernible).  And how grateful.  I love hearing it. 

 Q.  (Off microphone) 
SE RI PAK:  I don't know why.  I'm kind of nervous about it.  But I think because of finally I get my dreams.  That's probably the most that makes me nervous.  '07 is very special. 

 Q.  (Off microphone) 
 SE RI PAK:  I'm thinking about it, kind of blah right now.  (Laughter) 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT