FIELDS OPEN IN HAWAII
February 22, 2007
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   PAM WARNER:  Thank you for joining us today.  Great round out there, shot a 67.  Do you just want to talk about today. 
 SE RI PAK:  Well, basically, it's pretty tough.  So windy out there especially on the greens.  I don't want to putt downwind, downhill, that's the most difficult putt I've ever had.  But yeah, all day long, a couple missed shots, but some were really nice.  I didn't miss much.  I made good putts while making good shots.  And then I birdied, it was a good day.  As everybody knows, it's so windy out there.  I was really glad I finished a really good round today. 
 PAM WARNER:  Could we go over your score card? 
 SE RI PAK:  5, I got basically off the green, I was in the bunker, back of the bunker and it was a pretty good bunker shot.  Left me about around six feet and I made birdie. 
 6, actually I hit my 7-iron and about 20 feet, and I 3-putt from there. 
 7, I hit my 8-iron to about maybe four feet and made birdie. 
 10, I got my sand wedge about 85 yards, about 30 feet, downhill putt.  That's the longest for the day. 
 No. 12, 4-iron, a little knock-down 4-iron another four feet, made birdie. 
 15, a wedge to four feet, three feet and made birdie. 
 16, 5-iron, three feet. 

 Q.  Was the wind the same the whole time, or do you feel like it got stronger or weaker? 
 SE RI PAK:  Today, starting from the finish?  About the same basically.  I mean, well, the wind, some holes, really stronger than many days I think.  The last four days was wind, so we know when to do. 

 Q.  Same as Turtle Bay? 
 SE RI PAK:  Turtle Bay, actually last round was the most windy day.  It'S supposed to be windy in Hawaii, but get here it's the worst wind ever.  It's been pretty much stable the wind but sometimes you have to decide what club you're going to use because sometimes one-club, two-club, three-club make really big differences.  So it's all exciting from the end it pretty much the same. 

 Q.  When you won the playoff last year, when you look back on that now, how much of a difference did that make to you after it had been that very difficult year? 
 SE RI PAK:  That win gives myself 100% confidence.  Basically I knew before I won I was getting better, I feel a lot more comfortable about my game.  Actually, I'm never expecting I'm going to win that week but I felt so comfortable, I was really starting to play again.  -- inaudible -- at the end of Sunday I'm never expecting I'm going to hold the trophy but I did.  That gets me around -- actually seeing the whole thing, let's say really changing myself. 
 But I'm always having a lot of confidence myself, but before that was kind of pretty small, but then after I won I feel like 100%.  So I knew starting to play every week, I work on the same stuff all the time, and just really fun to play. 

 Q.  You're not used to starting the season so early. 
 SE RI PAK:  I know, dreaming -- 

 Q.  Was it hard it last week to kind of get in the swing of things? 
 SE RI PAK:  For me, yes, it's not easy, because how many years I've been -- six years, seven years, I feel that I'm ready but I don't feel like I'm mentally ready and like really strong.  But the wind actually woke me up right away.  I come out and I don't want to screw around, I'm here for winning and I'm here to play well.  And -- it would be great to go out and play all -- inaudible -- seven seasons.  So I know it's a little early for me but as long as I'm ready and as long as I feel I'm happy to be back in my seventh season. 
 Starting a little slow first few rounds last week but this week I already feel like I played so many events -- I think it's because of the weather here.  You're out there you have to be really strong mentally and the greens are so small, just giving a lot of different game.  I mean, I'm really glad I played in Hawaii. 

 Q.  Do you feel like this is a good idea? 
 SE RI PAK:  It's always really great to be here and I know I feel like kind of -- why after playing so many seasons -- (inaudible).  But now I feel like, you know what, this is great, because great practice, I know I really want to play well.  But the scores going to be really high, doesn't make me happy at all but I know I work so hard and I'm really excited to play and every day is going to be different and I play better and better. 
 So I think it's pretty good to start earlier. 

 Q.  When is the last time you were in Hawaii? 
 SE RI PAK:  I think eight -- 

 Q.  Eight years ago? 
 SE RI PAK:  A long time. 

 Q.  And on a different subject, you are involved in a university in Seoul? 
 SE RI PAK:  Oh, yeah. 

 Q.  So are you taking classes like long distance? 
 SE RI PAK:  Actually, I am.  Basically, I can't really take a class at all because I'm traveling.  But I can get on Internet online and most of the -- inaudible -- most of the time probably online.  I know it's not easy. 

 Q.  Is it a Mac first program? 
 SE RI PAK:  Yeah, basically, four years in college and basically I mean, too old -- it's better just really great chance.  I have a really great opportunity to have really great chance, I can graduate college. 
 Before I turned pro, I was having a really hard time decide to go to college or turn pro.  I really wanted college but basically turn pro, this is my professional -- my job. 
 Ten years later, I know still I can't miss that opportunity for like long time ago, but this time is a great chance.  Well, I just learn more.  I learn more about not just study, learn more about the way -- I'm probably more benefit for my life, later on going to get the business or my own success.  I mean, everybody know that, you guys already graduated earlier but this is a great run. 

 Q.  So are you taking classes now or is it something you are going to be doing? 
 SE RI PAK:  Actually they already started but I probably going to be. 

 Q.  Going to be? 
 SE RI PAK:  Right now just kind of season started like a week ago and pretty much stuff going on, so I probably -- pretty soon. 

 Q.  What are you taking? 
 SE RI PAK:  Taking basically -- basically my job is golf.  So on my own, basically I'm going to have my own academy and at the same time, it's pretty hard to explain.  Just the job I'm doing it in golf, rest of my life but somehow I'm going to be retired maybe ten years.  And the end the bottom line is I really love this sport and I do really love about the golf game.  So I really want to have my own, the business, and I can have some great talent athlete.  I mean, I can help them, all their dreams about it.  A lot more specific, like management in scheduling, all of those, just because I already go through all this.  This is my life, so basically business-wise, it's business class. 

 Q.  What school, what university? 
 SE RI PAK:  In Seoul.  Soon Mill University (ph), which is not in U.S.  So nobody knows much about it. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT