HSBC WOMEN'S WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 6, 2006
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DANA GROSS RHODE:  Se Ri just completed her first round match, you were 5 up over your opponent.  You want to talk about that?
SE RI PAK:  Well, actually I'm striking really well.  Pretty much like very solid round today.  I didn't miss    actually, I don't think I missed any of them, just one missing the green, but that's about it.  1 through 14 has been perfect and very comfortable round all day long, so I made a lot of good putts.  I finished really great today.
Q.  Would you compare the feeling of winning the last major and all of your majors before, how much different you feel, the joy you feel, etc.?
SE RI PAK:  It was actually    last week was very difficult conditions to play the golf course.  But after that I came right back the next week which always feels a lot better.  For me somehow I have a lot more fun and confidence in myself.

Lately I have such great ball striking, too, so I don't think    I'm really not having too much stuff going on.  I feel so much confidence on the golf course and it's a lot of fun to play, so it just helps a lot.
Q.  Can you compare winning this last major and how it was winning the first two?
SE RI PAK:  For me, the whole year, 2006 is great.  I had a year and a half break which I had a pretty hard time to go through all that happened to me.  But after that, trying to change my mind, or not change it but just help me out when I play golf, a lot for comfortable.  Makes me control myself and I have a lot more trust outside the golf course.  Like I said, I have so much confidence, I don't know why, so much confidence in myself and my game.  It's a lot of fun to play with it.
Q.  What kind of a mind set do you have to adopt or how hard is it to concentrate through a long tournament like this where supposedly you're going to have to wait six matches over the next three days?
SE RI PAK:  Even though this match    match play is different than stroke play.  We don't really have like chance to play this event.  I know match play is a lot more harder than when we play strokes.  Today in the first 14, I never actually felt like this is match play.  I just think about a lot more stroke, but at the same time, I know if I have a chance, I have to make it.  Otherwise, you're just not going to have anything changing.

Sometimes match play is a lot more giving    I feel like more stronger mentally.  Finishing hole by hole it hasn't really happened all year long because it's only one event.  Sometimes it's a lot, giving me more focused at same time and a lot more stronger mentally which helps.
Q.  Have you ever been happier on a golf course than when you hit that shot in the playoff against Karrie, just the jump and the whole
SE RI PAK:  That's my first time ever jumping at the golf course, yes.  I have so much winning, I have great success, but that's my first time ever, that much exciting.  It's just different for me.  It was great to win at the same time, very special, but for me, after those year and a half, two years, it seems like I'm a new person.  So that's why it's exciting and at the same time more fun, so that's why you see all those big emotions you never see before.
Q.  What would you say are some of your highlight holes during the HSBC Championship today?
SE RI PAK:  Well, actually, all day long, for me, as I say, I only missed one iron shot, that's about it, and all day just a really solid round.  I don't think I have like this is the best or that.  I just can't say that.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT