JTBC FOUNDERS CUP
March 17, 2016
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Se Ri, when you won your first major title in 1999, you were the only player on the LPGA Tour from the Republic of Korea.  Today there are 27, including five in the top 8 in the world.  What does it mean to you as a modern-day pioneer to be a part of this tournament?
SE RI PAK: It means a lot.  First of all, because the Founders, it's because of them we are here, which is this is where my own dreams came true.  So that's basically the steps I'm following in, so same thing as from my country, just the young kids, the young players, they are trying to play golf, which they are making me an idol.  They follow me step by step.  That's the way I followed when I was a kid, I always make my own dreams.  So that's the way it is.  So I feel great and I'm always honored to be a part of it, which basically everybody wants it.
Q. After so much time, so much success, what's next for you?
SE RI PAK: For me, as I talked about earlier, I think every single player which is here, they make a dream, which is at the Founders.  Every kid, they play golf and they dream to be a professional, and here it's the Hall of Fame.  So every step they're following.  That's just the way it is.  So I'm trying to follow the lead at the same time.  So hopefully I'm going back to my country and I do all those for young players that are trying to play the LPGA or international, I'm trying to help them as much as I could.  And a lot of players have such talent, and the young kids, they're trying to make their dream.  So I'm trying to make possible for them to follow their dreams.  So that's my plans.
Q. So playing less?
SE RI PAK: Yes.  So basically 2016 is my final season for the full-time tour.  So part of it I'm going to be retired.  It's pretty hard to make decision to be retiring.  But it's a time for me to be, as I said, trying to -- I have so many success.  At the same time I learn a lot and I'm trying to share all my skills and all these dreams.  So that's where I plan to be the next step of my life.  I just want to make dreams come true, and at the same time I know I loved playing golf, but I know I have another dream.  So this is my last year.
Q. How many more events?
SE RI PAK: Trying to make as much as I can.  Play full time 2016, and then last tournament I don't know where it's going to be.
Q. Se Ri, you've been an inspiration to young girls of all nationalities.  Thank you for the time.
SE RI PAK: Thank you very much.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT