MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 10, 2006
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
How are you?
SE RI PAK:  I'm great.
Q.  Good playing.  Talk about the day.  It's been a long day but you must be pretty happy right now.
SE RI PAK:  I am, actually.  I'm not just    not just because I'm done but because my game is getting better.  And I got 110 percent back, and it feels really great to be here.

So lately I have a lot of good things going on.  So I'm very excited to play.  So today, as I said, just a very long day.  A lot of golf out there.  But at the same time the wind was blowing like hell, but you know, finally I am done today and I can go home now.
Q.  What would it mean to win this for the third time, this tournament?
SE RI PAK:  Not third time, actually, I'm very excited that if I won this one for coming back from the injury.  For a year and a half I've had a hard time.  My game has had a lot of problems.  So it's like the first time ever.  But if I have a chance, which sounds great.

But like I said, I just came back and I am very hungry for the winning but I just need to go out there and take it one shot at a time.  Just don't really push myself a lot right now.  My game is getting confidence again and I played a lot better.  So I really enjoyed it.
Q.  Was it fun to play in that group?  I mean it's a pretty good pairing.
SE RI PAK:  It was.  I just talked to those guys earlier and I said, you know what, this is like first time for long time that we're all old ladies here, you know, I feel older, but it's fun.  It's exciting today.  It was nice to play in a threesome again.  We were having a great year, the last past couple years, which, it's just good to play together.
Q.  It's been the first time.  When would have been the last time?  It's been awhile, hasn't it?
SE RI PAK:  It is.
Q.  A couple years.
SE RI PAK:  Yeah.  It is.
Q.  Talk about tomorrow.  What are you going to do tonight?  Are you going to be nervous tomorrow getting back, because it's been a year and a half or so or are you just going to try to enjoy it?
SE RI PAK:  I'm going to try to enjoy it.  Because I've been there before so definitely is a lot exciting but at the same time it's going to be a little pressure on it because it, as I say, it's a long time for me to get this position right now.  But, yeah, so all I can do tomorrow is just do my best and try to enjoy it.  I'm very enjoying it right now.  I would love to play well, I would love to play good, but as I said, the game comes and goes.  And it's got to come, so...


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT