WEETABIX WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 28, 2004
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
DANA VON LOUDA:   We'd like to welcome Se Ri Pak, the 2001 Weetabix Women's British Open Champion, which she won here last time we were at Sunningdale.  You've won one event this year which gave you the necessary points for the Hall of Fame.  So if you'd like to open up talking about how that feels this year.
SE RI PAK:   First thing, is very difficult to do last couple of years.  I'm very glad to have done that and this year got all the points for the Hall of Fame.  So that was grateful, happy, all of those.  I have really unbelievable memory of last time at Michelob.  That was an important tournament and important time for me to do that.

Other than that I'm not really having's great year this year.  Basically, my driver give me a hard time so much.  I'm still trying to find the right driver myself.  I work on it last year and this year, so basically two years trying to find the right driver, but try to     just can't find it.  In golf there's not that much really, you see the game, very difficult and so I knew it before but it still give me a hard time.

So that's about it.  Having problems with the tee and then there's only so much fairway, not much to miss, miss the fairway.  So that gives me kind of hard time, especially this time     the tournament, much more big tournaments, like the majors giving a hard time, hitting a lot of fairways.  But this year, isn't having any great season because it's the driver.  Still  having too much fun, too much time off on the golf course is keeping me smiling.  Especially for me, always be right there, but especially last couple of weeks really been having a really hard time and pretty much really struggling on the golf course, but especially this is not my last season.  This year it remind me of the 2000 season.  The 2000 season I have a hard time and my mind is question mark, but still it looks like I'm the same way.

So last three years, really great seasons for me, but this year some reason get slow down and a little bit of hard time.  I think time to work on my game I guess.  Hard time, time to get much more power, so much focus and so much having work on my game so that makes it much more harder.  I figured out just now, I think I need more time for resting but I think that's what I needed, I guess, instead of spending so much time in the golf course every single day every week every year, but I think really I need the time to be a little more relaxing and have     try to enjoy it, but just one thing I really focus on it.

Otherwise I'm really great.  Just wind up having a not a great season, but I think the time is pretty important for me to know myself more so I think I'm glad I just find out and me and my caddie work really hard, me and caddie always say, I think we need more time to be resting and than having work.  Otherwise, just having a great time today and I have a great guys out there playing with, give me a lot of comfort at the golf course and he especially this week.  Three years ago I won this tournament, I that's a perfect memory having enjoyed it.  So the golf course is a little different than last time, this time it's much more softer, greens are a little slow of the last time it was much more tough, the conditions.  It feels great to came back.  This golf course is giving me a lot of smiles.  So hopefully I'll have a great week and let's see.
Q.  Are you using the new r7 driver?
SE RI PAK:   You know this golf game is really sensitive.  If you try a little movement at the bottom here     now I'm trying so much to     last time same thing, different weight to try.  But who is to say this is the one, pretty tough.  Especially every two months, three months, new equipment is coming out, so that gives a lot of hard time, too.

So I think I'm trying to stay one driver as long as I want.  So I try to look for the great driver still.
Q.  How do you think you are supposed hit  a perfect tee shot?
SE RI PAK:   Straight.  Doesn't matter how long I hit it, but I think I need to find much more confidence in the tee because I'm always     everybody else, that's their best club.  And I always say driver, I'm always to the driver, but this is first time for me and never ever happened to me and having a problem on the tee.  So this might be I have a hard time tomorrow because I can't even figure it out that easily, what the problem was.  So I think the driver, I think I need to find the right weight, the right shaft and the right length and then probably
Q.  Will be using the driver much the next four days?
SE RI PAK:   I don't think I'm going to hit a driver  just going to     if I hit a bad shot, still going to fight for it.
Q. You speak as someone who has lost a great driver?
SE RI PAK:   Well, I had problem with driver like three years ago.  You're traveling a lot and the club , one of my best driver has a little crack in the faces.  I use them for like two years, and I just stop changing.  Otherwise, I try to get exactly same driver, but then same line, same shot same weight.  And if not, it's as perfect as the other one, and apart from that, try to find better driver but still struggling to find a driver.
Q.  What is the most impressive part of Annika's game, if this was one part that you could have?
SE RI PAK:   I think she's mentally really strong and then I think     I don't know, game is just     golf game is always, can't say guarantee, but I think she's  going to always be there.  Probably most players same way, but Annika, I think she's     I think it's really important that she calms herself really well out there and that's why she plays good.  She's got such great experience herself, too, because she's won so much tournament at the same time.  I think she works hard first, too.  So everything all together around her self, it makes her grow up, I guess.
Q.  What do you do to take your mind off golf?
SE RI PAK:   I think spend much more time with the friends and go out and be with friends or family so I know     everyone here, every year, 365 day, probably 300 days is going to be work out, get changed, golf course, practice, come back to the hotel; it's same old thing.  You can make it but I'm not really usually that kind of person.  I'm usually very     I love golf, I love to play, I love my job, but I think I spend so much time right now more than the rest of     more than anything else, this way I think     golf is such a stressful game and mentally, physically, you probably know, every week at tournaments it's the same way, a lot of pressure on that, too.  And after that, I think you need to have a little more, I don't know, just have something fun.  And then you forget about your game or forget about your bad days.  That's the way it is.

For me, I'm really not used to that way.  I just go out straight to the range and figure out and trying to play much more better.  I'm always trying to do too perfect.
Q.  Do you go to the movies or the park or something?
SE RI PAK:  Yeah, movie, go out for a drink with the friends, shopping stuff like that.  I think I need more of those kind of normal life, I guess.
Q.  Do you play any other sports like tennis?
SE RI PAK:  Without golf any type of golf, tennis.   I would have loved to     I would have loved to play tennis.
Q.  Can I ask do you have a boyfriend?
SE RI PAK:   I have boy friends, but pretty hard time to get boyfriend, steady boyfriend  because you're traveling, all the time.  My life is not easy.  I mean, normal people are pretty hard at understanding your job because you travel every week, every year, you're not really at home much.  It's like three months max you stay at home.  That means that much you're traveling a lot, you don't have much to spend time with normal people.

So, it's pretty hard, but I'd really love to now, just age wise, not that old, but at the same time it's not that young either.
Q.  How much do you rely on your caddie out there?
SE RI PAK:   Probably this season 98 percent myself.  But I just talk about my caddie because he knows the golf course more than I am because he looks at the golf course, which is much more trouble and stuff so certainly we have a lot to discuss before teeing off and swinging the shots.  Me and my caddie, most of the time he's just having a lot of communicating.
Q.  What are the key holes out here?
SE RI PAK:   Last four holes, 15, 16, 17, 18, because the last four holes are important.   Last time I play I have a hard time with that, too, but I made it, though.
Q.  Last year at Lytham did you enjoy being involved in such an exciting finish?
SE RI PAK:   You are expecting being second place, if you really, really want that.  But I just try my best and I have such a great game that week, and the last two days I miss the shot on 18, that's because second places.  That was pretty exciting it.  Was really fun.  I have a hard time to play England golf style, but I'm getting used to it right now.  Actually it's really fun over here, more fun, different shot and different putt on the green and everything.   You're not always going to hit it straight.  You can use 14 clubs in your bag in England, so that makes it fun to play here.  Last couple of years ago here, I don't know what to do on the golf course, I'm not used to it.  But spoke to my caddie and we had so much fun on the golf course, different holes and stuff.  So I feel pretty much it's     yeah, fun.  It's not bored; it's just fun.
Q.  What do you think about 14-year-old Michelle Wie? Do you think she is sacrificing too much of her childhood?
SE RI PAK:   I think she's 14 years old, and she should have fun at her age.  Her age, golf, it's difference, golf course setup is different, everything is different, I would say.  I think I would hope at least to her to be more enjoying it because right now I would pretty hope to enjoy the game of golf, and I would just let her to be     right now, myself, I try to be a little bit fun but golf is much more fun, it's hard and pretty difficult job.  Her age, 14 years old, she should go out there and have fun with her friends and age wise and play together, joking around, that's the way she is, I mean has to.  So I think I would say 50/50.  Maybe she love it this way or because of the parents are    I mean, who knows?  But as I say I hope she is trying to enjoy herself.
Q.  Did you enjoy golf at 14 years old?
SE RI PAK:   Well at 14 I just start golf, taking a club and swing a couple of times.  I kind of start late.  I was 14 years old I start picking the golf, not like Michelle Wie.  I can't even think about hitting it that far, too.  Probably I'm hitting one club, 7 iron and then a couple of shots; and she's hooking, that's the way it is.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT