MICHELOB ULTRA OPEN AT KINGSMILL
May 9, 2004
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DANA VONLOUDA:  Congratulation, Se Ri.  Today you earned the 27th point to enter the LPGA and World Golf Halls of Fame.  Congratulations.
SE RI PAK: Thank you.
DANA VONLOUDA: Final round 65 today to finish at 9 under.  22nd win, 10 come from behind win.  How does it feel?
SE RI PAK: Well, it feels very special this week, today, Sunday.  I would have been here for many times already and Sunday I was behind and suddenly     the one last day win the tournament.  Today is just different.  I mean, one of dream come true, my biggest goal was trying to join in the Hall of Fame and I was work so hard for seven years.  Everybody did out here, but I was really hard work for this, my goals.  Suddenly today was the last point to get and it was Mother's Day, my mom was here and third thing is I was having a little bit of struggling earlier this year.  I think I played well.  I think I finished great.  I think I was ready, but I somehow can't play well.  I was kind of thought     it was frustrating every week.  I was great feeling, even practice, even play, I was ball striking real well, but I can't score well.  So I was so much behind I don't have much this problem for a long time, suddenly today looks like I break up.  So it was great.  Just Sunday today, May 9th, is best of my life, I think.
Q.  Has your mother been here all week?
SE RI PAK: Yes, my mom was here on Dinah, first major.  She arriving on Monday and then following week    I know she has stress for that, so said early this morning, this week even yesterday, my mom say she knows golf is always hard but she knows I work so hard for it, but sometime some reason, no reason, just can't play well, you can't score well.  She said just you can do is par or birdie, you don't have to try extra, extra hard, just go out there, play best as you can today and we fly back to Korea and see Dad and then we rest, because I have a tournament there, I have to fly tonight.  Anyway, that's about it.  She just tell me that all you can do is do your best and you know, we can leave here and after that this morning is Mother's Day and I was after practice I saw my mom almost forgot to say happy Mother's Day and then I have big hug for her.  And say Happy Mother's Day and mom, I love you, I try my best and then hopefully we play well.  Suddenly today, something looks like some reason magic is going to be working, my putting finally come and suddenly make a lot of birdie.  Lots of great shots out there.  After 18 I suddenly get new trophy for myself.  So it was great.
Q.  You are not giving her the trophy?
SE RI PAK: Oh, I will.  No problem for that.  (Laughs).
Q.  Are you still considered kind of a hero back in Korea or is that    since you have won so much now or everybody looks now at the other players?
SE RI PAK: I think that they knew it, I mean, I am the one as, I don't know, because right now looks like so many Korean players that come from my country but at the same time they are doing really well, but I still think, they think they can remember what I have done before, so they really still love me a lot out there.
Q.  Do you prefer coming from behind?
SE RI PAK: I think I have done that before so many times.  I don't know why.  Tell you the truth was I am not really try done that, it just happen.  A couple of years last couple of years I done so many times and I played well the weekend.  This year some reason I can't really following that, the games, I     for some reason I can't play as well as I used to be.  But I think I was there before and this golf course, you know, especially this golf course you never know.  Out there, really long, thick rough, you won't miss shot, big number too, that what happened.  So I know I all I can do is don't have many mistake out there, and hopefully make some putts.  Probably I have a chance me and caddy was working hard last couple of days to be in golf course management, last two days was really great.
Q.  Do you look at scoreboards a lot and if so, were you aware precisely of where you stood, coming in, were you thinking Hall of Fame, I am two or three shots ahead?
SE RI PAK: Tell you the truth I really never think about Hall of Fame.  I just     I think after sign my score card my caddie told me that, oh yeah, yeah, yeah, I was just thinking about winning, not thinking about I was Hall of Fame now, enough point.  Really don't remember that.  I just    I really look     it does, some make sure what score, I just want to know what my position is and I look sometimes a lot of scoreboard if I can see.  Sometimes give more pressure that too if you look at it, you know, you know you are there, I mean, sometimes you just work so hard, but it doesn't mean you are going to play well.  Sometimes just upset.  Today I don't know until 16, yeah, doesn't know until 16, I am leading.  After I saw that there, because I can't see the score that well, because I was looking at the score and there is trees behind it, and looking and boards keep changing for Top 20 players, so I really doesn't have the time to look at it.  First time I saw it on No. 16.  It was good.
Q.  Is it difficult to start a round knowing that you have to shoot 65, 66 just to have a chance to win.
SE RI PAK: Pardon me.
Q.  Is it difficult to start the round knowing that you have to shoot 65 or 66 just to have a chance?
SE RI PAK: It's difficult.  It's not easy, especially this golf course because even like Thursday Friday, I think I play well, but I have so many mistakes out there.  I have, I think, five birdie Thursday and Friday.  Actually, Thursday I think I have a eagle, but I have double bogey there, bogey there, so many bunch of bogeys.  It doesn't matter you make a lot of birdie, you have a lot of bogeys, doesn't many     your score never move anything.  At the same time, keep so many miss shots you lost your confidence.  That's what I lost earlier this week, Thursday, Friday, even yesterday, just I was real solid round yesterday but I was kind of a little frustrating after the round because 17 I get double bogey, seems like I have a great chance, suddenly I drop so bad again.  Just don't know what happened.  Just can't tell what is the problem was.  I struck it well, putting well, but still I can't score well.  Today one 18th hole to go, I mean, it's not two days left.  Just one more round to go, and probably anything different than last three days going to go out there probably some missed shots, some bogeys, going to be a big number, it would happen.  So today same thing I just feel     everything make inside my heart just say make it free, everything is clear out and just go out there play quick as I can, and play as well as I can and that's what my mom said, just play well as you can and just relieve from here to Korea and see my dad, going to feel better.  Suddenly my putting dropped a couple more holes and looks like I have a great, you know, chance and after 18 it just suddenly has a great day for me.
Q.  You said your goal has always been to make the Hall of Fame.  But can you put into perspective or fathom reaching that goal at such a young stage in your career?
SE RI PAK: I don't know, I think that's the biggest goal I can set up for myself, I guess.  (Laughs).  Before I came here was first my goal was that.  Before I was in 1997 in the winter I was practice a little bit and ready for the Q School.  I make the Q School and now I just suddenly make myself say this is my biggest goal of my career, Hall of Fame.  And after that, didn't even think about anything.  Now, just today after today I have enough points to have Hall of Fame.  Four years just go out there play as good as I can but I have one more goal to go was always hard for me earlier season in Dinah, Grand Slam last majors to be.
Q.  Career Grand Slam?
SE RI PAK: Right.  That's right.  After that, and I said play as best as I can, good as I can, like Annika.  (Laughter).
Q.  Since you didn't know the score where you stood until 16, how big was 15 then not knowing what was going on behind you to be able to get that on 15?
SE RI PAK: Today was great day.  Not much breeze as yesterday.  Greens kind of little firmer than last three days so I know it's not going to be too easy, but I don't think it's not harder than yesterday.  So I know, I think some players going to shoot really low score so I can say just make     I say make much birdies you can and you know, all the par 5s is pretty much reach for, and chance to be the one shot is to cover, I think 15 is the key you make birdie there instead of par, I mean, it feels much better then you make pretty easy par 5 you just make par probably going to be a little bit of struggling for next shot.  I think 15 is going to be one of the pretty good keys you can make easy birdie there and then 16, 17, probably 18 is the hardest one and 17 is not easy.  And 16 just kind of little, you know, going to be happen, but 15 is going     great hole.
Q.  You say you wanted to play fast is that so you don't think of too many things?
SE RI PAK: Yeah, sometimes.  Even yesterday, yesterday two some was great, but sometime you go at the golf course, I know I am thinking so much because one missed shot is caused maybe I do this and that and next shot is thinking about trying to fix it.  You play fast as you can, you don't have time to think about it.  Has to be    next shot has to be ready and ready.  So I like to play really fast.
Q.  Your caddie said after the 3rd hole when you made birdie he knew it was going to be a special day for you.  Did you have a feeling that you were going to go really low today after the start of the round?
SE RI PAK: No, actually.  (Laughs).  I can't say because this golf course, I make so many birdie earlier this week and still have so many bogey and some doubles and it's just such a big number too.  So it doesn't mean you make first birdie, doesn't means you are going to be really low.  Some golf course you does feel that too, whatever caddie said.  Sometimes as soon as I make some birdie, he said I knew it was going to be a good day.  But this week, this golf course, no.  I think just wanted to make birdie was saving it for next some trouble shot.  Never knew it.
Q.  What is your mom's name and is it traditional for her to come to the United States and watch you play around Mother's Day?
SE RI PAK: My mom's name    last name is Kim and Jung Sook.  Well, my parents doesn't much travelling, sometime my parents come for just big tournaments lake a major, U.S. Open or first majors, or British Open, yeah.  Otherwise they really didn't follow it much.  Using computer watching score.  This time she's I think longest been here, I guess, because I just moved to new house and then I had a great     for my mom and dad like my parents room, I have kind of a little bit decoration for myself, so I like to see my     I love to tell my mom and dad hopefully can sleep there.  And my mom, she come over after first major and take three weeks off and we spend a lot of time at home.  That's why she's still here otherwise she already gone for.
Q.  Is this the first Mother's Day in which she has seen you play?
SE RI PAK: Yeah, I think so.  Yes.  Couple of years ago, my dad was here Father's Day.
Q.  Did she come mostly to help you decorate your house and then the golf?
SE RI PAK: I do everything.  All is set then I just want to show my mom.  She really love it.
Q.  Did you win on Father's Day?
SE RI PAK: Oh, yeah, 1999 Shop Rite, I guess.  My dad is happy that time.  So this time my mom is happy.
Q.  You have won so many of these with low rounds on Sunday and coming from back in the field, does it make it easier to do it?  Have you done it before?
SE RI PAK: No.  Golf is never, ever easy.  But sometimes it feels great you are a little behind and I know I can play well, and I guess not much pressure that too, I guess, leading, I think, sometimes good helping for that too.
DANA VONLOUDA:  Thank you..
SE RI PAK: Thank you very much.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT