CHICK-FIL-A CHARITY CHAMPIONSHIP
April 29, 2004
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:   Se Ri, thanks for coming in and joining us, defending champ, and you got started, you started the tournament with a great round today, 4 under at the top of the leaderboard.  So tell us about your day, and we'll take questions from there.
SE RI PAK:   Well, I finished in red numbers today but I really didn't have a solid round.  I missed a couple times on the tee shots from the fairway.  And the good thing is, I really didn't have a major problem out there, made some pretty good up and down a couple of times.  And I did practice a lot of short game the last couple of weeks, after early this season started and it looks like I missed a lot of short putts somehow.  Not really feeling great about it.

So I was having a lot of practice yesterday afternoon.  We really had great putting all day long.  Out there it's not easy.  The greens  are hard but sometimes slow and the wind is affecting; it was kind of tricky out there.  But I'm happy about today to finish so well.  I was not expecting a really good finish.

Really didn't hit great driver all day, missed left, right.  I really missed a lot of fairways today.  18 in particular, you see the left side wide open and then the water, and the tee, they changed it up, so it's a little different from when we practiced.  The thing is, I hit a great drive from 18 and I got one 60 yards from the pin.  The wind is kind of left to right and I kind of    hit it perfect, six feet I think, it's not an easy putt, left to right breaking putt.

But it's great, all day, feels great about my putting, and actually I made that putt to make my day today, so it's great.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
SE RI PAK:   I think this golf course, not really hitting on the tee shots all day today was, you know, not great.  I missed so many fairways.  But at the same time, on the greens, I have a lot of confidence, so it was pretty much recovery from a bad lie from the tee shots.  And then after all, that's one day, golf is always, you have a great day and still can't even score well.  Some days, you can't even play well and that happens.

Today, the thing is, I finished really great and it will be great to play the next three days.  It was great for me today.
Q.  Inaudible?
SE RI PAK:   Usually I play well this golf course, this tournament.  At the same time, especially last year, I was having a great week, because I won.  And then after that, yes, I was having a lot of confidence every week, because I knew this golf course pretty much, and I have a great memory and that helps me a lot at the golf course.  It was great, everything is perfect this week, so I think  it will be fun.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
SE RI PAK:   Not too bad, but like downhill was going to be     my feet was below the hole and the wind is left to right.  You know, it's kind of a little hard to decide what club I'm going to use, but I decide for 8 iron, and then draw into the bunker.  The bunker from there was not easy.  But as I said, green is hard, but sometimes is slow, so sometimes I had pretty hard time to figure out speed wise, but still I'm pretty much happy about the way I'm playing today.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT