ADT CHAMPIONSHIP
November 19, 2003
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









MODERATOR:   Thanks for joining us.  You have had another fantastic year, three wins, 19 Top-10s, I think and we're at the end of the year.  Can you tell us your thoughts coming into this season -ending tournament.  We'll take some questions.

SE RI PAK: First of all, it was exciting to come back here at the ADT and the golf course is unbelievably great and especially this tournament is the last tournament for the season, so it's pretty special.  Now I have some -- take some break, so be nice to have it.  But as I said, I mean, it was a great season for the whole year.  I didn't win as much as last year but I gained much more consistency for a while.  It makes me a lot of happy.  Well, after just everything, my game has improved, my -- mentally got stronger, enjoy my game, so that's pretty important.  So I don't think I have any complaints for this year. 

MODERATOR:  Questions. 


Q.   Are you thinking about those Vare Trophies at all?

SE RI PAK: Oh, yeah, I do, definitely.  Especially have a great chance this week, it is pretty important trying to do my best to play well this week.  But at the same time you think about there's a lot of pressure on that too, especially who is next to me right by, she's -- I think she's played really well this year, consistent play last couple of weeks.  I don't think it's a big huge difference.  This week do my best.  I am thinking about that, very important for me to get the Vare Trophy.  That's one of my goals.  I do my best, no pressure and hopefully I will play well this week. 


Q.   (Inaudible)?

SE RI PAK: It was close.  Biggest my goal was Hall of Fame.  Two points to go, I got hopefully (inaudible) and I get a Vare Trophy probably one more point to go.  That's pretty important this year.  Right away win this one and then get the Vare Trophy, it is unbelievable.   So as I said, I missed a great chance but this is not my last season, so just do my best until last on Sunday and hopefully have a great off-season then I am fired ready to go. 


Q.   Talk about the Vare Trophy.  Annika is not going to qualify for it.  What are your thoughts on that?  Should there be a requirement like that or should they maybe lower it because you guys are playing less tournaments?  What are your thoughts?

SE RI PAK: Well, I mean, I can't  -- at least we have to qualify that's why they make the rule.  Nothing she can do; nothing I can do.  That's the way it is.  You have to take it.  Right now looks like a perfect, perfect, wow, perfect for me to get a Vare Trophy instead of Annika because Annika has such a great season here, she won a lot.  She got really amazing season, 2003, but it's not 100% I am happy to get the Vare Trophy because not actually I am doing as well as her.  But as I said, no matter what just don't take too much makes me happy.  Probably next year play as well as I can, but as I said nothing we can do about it.  Nothing I can do about it.  I don't think I can say anything too much for that. 


Q.   The schedule has been cut back from 39 to 33, something like that, do you think that because the schedule is reduced to -- (inaudible)


SE RI PAK:  I think, yeah, it's going to be (inaudible).  Still 6 tournaments this year, but at the same time you got purses a little much more higher, I don't think it's a huge difference, but still depends what the schedule was right next to each other, what for, off-season, so I don't think it was too bad, but I think it's is a big factor for the LPGA again.


Q.   (Inaudible)?

SE RI PAK: Well, I don't know for that.  As I said this year Annika done that, so I don't think it going to be make it quicker play more men's tournaments as a woman, so I don't think it going to be that early coming back-to-back.  I think it will take a couple years.  I think it will take couple years to play again.  Hopefully next year have a great chance, but well, either way I just kind of wait a little bit.


Q.   Want to play a PGA TOUR event?

SE RI PAK: I don't mind to play.  Yes.  At the same time it was great experience to play in the PGA because you learn a lot, such a different game, different field, I mean, actually mental, besides, they play men's at the Asian right there, so that was -- makes a huge difference too, so rather you play PGA such a much more, you know, bigger things, I mean, look at Annika, she played men's tournament; after that she came back on Tour, her game is totally different.  She had a lot of confidence herself and mentally get really much more strong.  She was already a strong player, but emotionally different, so I think that's really good thing to play sometimes, not all the time, just  -- unless you play every time I don't think it's any particulars, but sometimes make you see -- look at new games, new players, everything make  -- you change it.  So I think that's great.  You find the chance, I don't mind to play, I'd love to play there. 


Q.   Do you think her personality changed this year?  Has she become more open, more interacting with people, Annika?

SE RI PAK: I think so, yeah.  She changed for, I think, starting two years ago, I think.  She's much more relaxing out there, much more friends out there, and she just seems like really nice.  I mean, she was not bad before, but she's like more open, yeah. 


Q.   (Inaudible) talk about the International flavor that the Tour has and maybe how it has grown since you joined the Tour?

SE RI PAK: Starting two years much more international players.  First time I came out in 1998 was, I don't think many, a couple of Australians, a couple of Swedish, couple Japan and then Korea, I think.  Right now looks like the number is big difference too.  First time I was there, I am the only Korean (inaudible) -- even after two years after right now looks like 18, 20 players, yeah, like every single year looks like  -- at the same time they are really young, too, like 19, 20s, and they have such a great talent then they come over here start to play on the LPGA Tour, so you can see the big changing for like three years.  I think that's much better for the LPGA Tour too.  I mean, they have such a great personality.  Emotionally find it much more exciting to watch on the LPGA.  I think that's a great thing that happened for the last three years. 


Q.   You were one of the first to come to the LPGA.  Do a lot of those people, do they look up to you and say I want to be like Se Ri?

SE RI PAK: Well, sometimes give me a lot of pressure that too.  They look at me and make sure I mean, the thing is they have to have a great personality, great attitude and at the same time has to have a lot of talent too, but right now looks like no problem, but the thing is we have a heavy travel this year kind of parents always with the players, but without that was, I mean, for me it was really myself to be proud,  I mean, they come out, they look at me and then they try to play like it, the best player, not like Se Ri, I mean, they are trying to be the best player on Tour, but they really done well.   They make a lot of friends.  They try their best and they work so hard; now they play well, but that gives a lot of pride myself to do, trying to help them as many as I can but sometimes it is hard but they are really understanding.  One of them makes me feel really bad because the parents have the problem with their kid, the players.  Our culture is different than here, so I mean, some people doesn't understand why parents follow the kid, I mean, they are 19, 20, or 25, 26 years old, still parents are following that.  That's the way we grow up in our country.  More love their kid, but sometimes it a little trouble this year, that makes me a little upset, but otherwise it is great.  For me, it makes me happy, makes me proud, I mean, I am happy for them.  Everything is great. 


Q.   Do you think that there has been all this debate about the parents issue, do you think any of that is a valid discussion or do you think it's all  -- just all of the debate this they have been having about Asian players, their role over here, and things like that?

SE RI PAK: Well, I mean, you play well, you do well, some people are jealous too.  Nothing can do no matter what.  We're trying to make it happiest day,  all the fans, whatever we can, have some more fans in the LPGA but part of it some people doesn't look like great things.  Sometimes if I play well, some people say, oh, she just have lucky bounce, lucky putt, I mean, this is what people does that.  Nothing we can do about the good things.  Sometimes people negative things, sometimes people really positive things, so all different personalities.  Nothing we can say to be make our look bad over it. 


Q.   Do you want to be like a star in America?  Does that drive you at all?  Like Annika  has got all the star attention when she played, do you want to be like that here  --

SE RI PAK: Not in the US, worldwide.  Not in the US.  That's one of the big goals, always -- because always my parents told me always to have the biggest goal, biggest dream about it.  Going to come true, so I mean, of course I am trying to be best of the woman golf, my name on the Hall of Fame, worldwide, my game, that's the things if I work so hard and then at the same time trying to play well.  So definitely but Annika is doing such great for five years and she's great player, she's great, but I am still 26 years old, many years to go.  It's not my last season, so try my best to play well and then make myself to best golfer in LPGA.  That's part of my goal.


Q.   I know you want to be the best at what you do, but do you have any desire to be a star, somebody that everybody sees when they go out and does that -- do you want that?

SE RI PAK: I don't know, I mean, I do not ever think about it.  Just whatever your job is you are doing well, that's -- everything is automatically, you know, to get in the public, I can't make it any particular to be under like top star, just whatever I am, taking the job, this is my job, I am going to do my best, that's going to be automatic.  I am not trying to be too star to make people have to be recognize me everywhere that I go.  That's a pretty hard thing.  That's the second thing.  First thing is just take my job as seriously and do my best to do well. 


Q.   (Inaudible)?

SE RI PAK: Much more it is the culture instead of anything is different.  Asian much more different than American.  American much more individually, like more free, but our country or Asian is more -- parents are protecting their kids.  Even you live with the parent until before you get married.  That's pretty much normal in our country too.  They love so much their kid and they worry so much, make sure they are okay, make sure they are going the right way, make sure they are not having hard time, make sure they are always happy.  That's my culture and my parents or Asian parents do with their kids.  That's why having trouble this year because they are too much over there for their kid.   This is not the bad thing, but golf is individual, you have to stand really strong because you have to fight on your own and not your parents with it.  That's why problem with a couple of people don't understand that.  It's too much going on, they make a trouble.  So hopefully next year everything is get over it. 


Q.   (Inaudible)?

SE RI PAK: Much more understanding for our culture and then here.  So much more getting comfortable I think going on, so I think next year is going to be much better too.


Q.   Annika obviously got all the attention the last couple of years.  You played pretty well yourself.  Do you ever feel that you don't get the attention that you deserve?

SE RI PAK: Why not?  I am, every time.  Sometimes too bored to be second place, I mean, of course she's much better game as I have because she have such great experience for her success, all her career, so I understand that, but at the same time right now I just  -- I work hard as I can.  I mean, I can't push myself too much.  I did already a little while because I am looking for Annika and trying to be that spot what I want to be is No. 1.  But I am pretty much get there.  I say my game is like 70% was in my game is improved, so I am trying to make 100% myself.  30 percent to go, the thing is that all the times can tell me, I mean, the golf never ends, you can't actually no matter when you are on the top, still you have to work hard to find a new things you have to improve your game.  You are No. 1 still pretty hard spot to stay there.  For me it was such a better position because whatever I got, I still have time to more learning to get there.  I think it takes about a couple more years to get mine, I am not sure it's going to -- next year is going to be better season than this year.  Not really right now whatever second place, not actually what I want to be, but as I said, all I can do is just work hard as I can, just learn more every season, especially like last year then  -- this year game is much better than last year.  This year is much more consistent.  I didn't win as many as last year.  But my game is much more together, much stronger.  I get much more improved.  More consistent.  That's what I want.  I think next year much better season.  All season I try to work hard.  My goal next year to be No. 1.


Q.   (Inaudible) Hall of Fame worthy --

SE RI PAK: I surprise myself to.  I didn't think it would come that quick.  Of course I would take a long to be settled down myself and play much more consistent, but since this is the 6th year, two points to go, almost my goal to get pretty close, so makes me happy too at the same time there's a lot of confidence at the same time, it's not  -- I don't know how long I can play.  I don't think it's too long, but going to be pretty good success before I finish.  So it was great, great things happen for my age.  No complaints at all.


Q.   Any part of your game in particular that you are working on?

SE RI PAK: I think probably much more short game this winter.  My game is getting much more together, much more consistent, but I myself to be not 100% sure, my short game is that great.  So I am going to work more short game this year, make it more settle down and everything will be great. 

MODERATOR:  Thank you. 



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT