WACHOVIA LPGA CLASSIC
August 24, 2003
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 SE RI PAK:  It feels really great.  I didn't want to be in that position yesterday, so it was like 3     four shots behind, right.  And it feels great to play Sunday.  Not always guaranteeing I am going to play well.  Everybody is thinking I am going to shoot a really low number on the weekend.  It's not easy.  But it feels great.  Just striking the ball last couple of weeks really, really great.  My putting seems like    great putting yesterday. 

First two days was kind of a lot of struggling on the greens, but yesterday was great.  I am pretty much ready to go on Sunday and as soon as     it feels like it's working.  First front 9, four birdies, a great start, and yesterday     today on the back nine I thought at least I am going to have a great a couple of more, I mean, not every single putt     at least it's two more, but I looks like I am going the other way.  So I mean as I said, just (inaudible) it feels great.  No complaints at all.  I do my best today.  It feels great. 


Q.   Given the start you had today, were you thinking 63 like you did here yesterday in the final round?

SE RI PAK: Well, I don't know what is it 9 under last year I did on Sunday?  I forgot about it.  I think after front 9, 4 under I think I am going to have another good round because on the back nine we have a 3 par 5 and then much more makeable hole here, I mean, front nine was first two, three holes kind of a little hard to make birdie, but at least on the back nine you have a great chance.  But I think I really didn't think about it, but just do my best every single shot instead of thinking about a whole bunch of shots.  Really having fun.  Me and my caddie were communicating really well, and which is great.  My game is getting really solid, and much more relaxed out there, I think I am playing well. 


Q.   Talk about that stretch from like 15 to 17.  Did you feel something in your swing there?

SE RI PAK: Well, I think before that our group was a little behind, so we're having on time, me and my partner on starting 14, like the last two holes we have on time.  Kind of a little rushed, keep playing faster because otherwise I am going to have two shot penalty, I don't want to have that.  Yeah, kind of a little bit of struggle for my, you know, a couple of holes because of that.  But well, I think I called it unlucky for the day.  Golf is sometimes you have good round, sometimes you have good luck too, but today it seems like I have a little bit unlucky to finish the last four holes.  As I said, it's all right.  I did my best.  Hopefully I don't want to be in this position, but still I am pretty much happy with that. 


Q.   (Inaudible)?

SE RI PAK: I think we kind of one hole behind, I think.  It was a little slow.  For some reason, earlier today was kind of a little wait, everybody was slow and then starting back nine, seems like that they were playing so fast.  Then suddenly I think we were kind of one hole behind on 14 and then by that time rule official was saying you have to keep on pace, otherwise we're going to have trouble too.  We just walked fast and trying to play a little bit faster, but looks like my game is a little rushed so I got a bogey on 15 and another bad shot on the second shot. That's about it. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT