WEETABIX WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 3, 2003
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
NEAL REID:  Se Ri, I know you are disappointed.  You said you got some bad bounces out there today.  Is that kind of what happened? 

SE RI PAK:   Yeah, just a couple times, especially on the par 5s, I was in great shape with Annika, but for some reason I missed a lot today.  My balls went to the left, a couple bunkers all day, probably at least three or four times, had a bad break, too.  It was a great up-and-down, too, from there.  I mean, that's what it is, I think.  Normally wasn't expecting that finish, that bogey on 18, but I just do my best today.  Not the way I want to be but still happy about my results.  This is golf.  I'm kind of a little bit unhappy about the way it is at the end, but it was fun all day, all week, so I'm not going to do much complaining at all. 

NEAL REID:  Can you talk about your tee shot on 18? 

SE RI PAK:   Well, yesterday, same thing.  I tried not hitting my driver, a little more into the wind today, left-to-right.  Yesterday was more left-to-right into the wind; today was much more straight into.  So I thought my 3-wood is perfect, just trying to hit the fairway rather than hit it longer and give myself short irons.  Still missed fairway but thought I was in great shape but for some reason my ball went into the bunker.  You've got a fairway bunker, you already have a one-shot penalty there from that.  Well, that's about it, just last hole was kind of unlucky to be a good finish.

NEAL REID:  What about the putt on 18?

SE RI PAK:   I think today all day, I didn't pretty much see the break.  I don't know what happened.  Kind of these greens is pretty much silly.  It's pretty much a true roll but this, it's kind of hard to read.  For me, a little left-to-right, I've got a good putt, but it just did so much breaking so I missed the putt.  So, I lost by one shot. 


Q.  How long was the third short on 18?

SE RI PAK:   108 into the wind.  I hit sand wedge, punch shot into the wind. 


Q.  Would you talk about the feeling of seeing your ball going into the bunker?

SE RI PAK:   Well, I'm hoping it's not in the bunker but just as soon as I hit it I knew I missed it a little bit.  So I said, there's nothing that I can do from there.  Either way, I go in the bunker, still have to take it.  Just kind of made myself a little more relaxed after I missed the tee shot on that. 

My guess, I was guessing it's not in the bunker because I missed that into the wind, 3-wood, I don't think you could reach for it.  


Q.  So at what point did you know it's in the bunker, as you are walking toward it? 

SE RI PAK:   Yeah, everybody sees my ball, it is in the bunker. 


Q.  Were you impressed with Annika's play? 

SE RI PAK:   Well, I mean, actually, I'm not.  She's pretty much a consistent player.  She's in the top, especially this golf course, and the weather, I don't think anything is much different.  So I know she is going to be there.  I just have to go out and work as hard as I can because I know she's pretty much steady.  She's pretty much a consistent player.  She's not much missing shots.  She knows how to play.  Her game, actually, I think was already in great shape.  So I know that she's going to play well. 


Q.  Were you pleased with the way that you birdied the two holes after she had taken the lead? 

SE RI PAK:   On 16, yeah.  I mean, today, first through 18, I never, ever think about at all.  Just every single hole, I'm just trying to hit every shot, just driver in the fairway, second shot trying to not get close, but this wind, depends what you want to hit it.  So trying to play as hard as I can and try not to make too many bogeys but I'm making many birdies.  I was doing pretty well.  I was happy I didn't miss shots, but it was great it, was a good game. 


Q.  You've had a good career, do you feel sorry for the opportunity to beat somebody like Annika on last two holes?

SE RI PAK:   Well, not really.  As I said earlier, her game is really great.  At the same time, I think she already is on the top for a long time, a couple of years.  I'm still kind of a little behind her, but at the same time, I'll still young, trying to catch her.  But I have many years to play.  It's not that this is my last year.  Every single tournament is not my last.  But if I see her, I think I kind of learn more about my game, more mentally.  


Q.  Do you get a little extra charge playing against her? 

SE RI PAK:   Yeah, when I play with her I also play well because I know she's strong so automatically my mentality gets strong, too.  So I really like too play with her all the time.


Q.  Was there ever a time in the afternoon when you thought the match would be yours?

SE RI PAK:   It was pretty close.  I can't say  -- it was a pretty close game.


Q.  Annika looks so relaxed out there, do you think it's fair to say that she was more relaxed on the last few holes than you?

SE RI PAK:   It doesn't really seem much like that, but I think she's pretty much used to the pressure.  I do the same thing but she's pretty much used to that.  And she knows just me and her, I think probably she knew, me and her, it is going to be the last, fighting each other for the win.  But as I say, she pretty much, isn't a pressure, nor for me. 


Q. Would you be surprised five years ago if someone had told you that you would be fighting for the title this year?

SE RI PAK: A couple years ago I had a really, really hard time.  But at the same time, I had never played a links golf course.  And I don't think my game is ready, either.  But after everything, I learn a lot and my game gets better and better and then it came here, I still think of what happened last time with my game, but I think it helped me a lot from that.  So I'm really happy about my finish today, or coming off of this week, I'm really having fun.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT