WEETABIX WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 2, 2003
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








NEAL REID:  You're one stroke back at the British Open with a chance to win tomorrow.  How do you feel?

SE RI PAK:   I feel great.  It's not the way I wanted to finish, 17 and 18, but this is golf here.  This golf course, so many troubles out there, but I did really well.  Pretty much hung in there really well the last three days.  I'm really happy with my game and I think I'm really in a great position to be in for tomorrow.  I'm really, really happy about that today. 

NEAL REID:  What part of your game is working right now, what's good?

SE RI PAK:   I think I'm doing really well controlling my shots.  This golf course, there's a lot of punch shots, three-quarter shots.  You can use 14 clubs on this golf course.  So much of this golf course is hard to believe.  My striking is solid and at the same time, I've practiced a lot of those controlling shots this week.  So I really feel great about my swing and iron shot and putting.  Everything is great.  So pretty much happy about it.  No complaints at all. 

NEAL REID:  Talk about the leaderboard, you have Patricia at the top, who won a major this year, and you have Annika and Karrie up there with yourself.  What do you think about tomorrow with this kind of leaderboard? 

SE RI PAK:   I think that's what it is, I think.  Always the top players on the leaderboard.  I don't think it's any new stuff, but I think tomorrow, same thing, the depends the weather.  It's going to be totally different game.  I think I'll try to  have smart play tomorrow, smart as I can, try to have some fun and play as aggressive as I can.  All I can do is go out there and do my best tomorrow and I should be in great shape. 


Q.  How far was the putt on the last?

SE RI PAK:   I think around like 15 feet, I think.  The last two  -- I think I misread two in a row.  It looks like they were breaking left-to-right.  At the same time, I didn't much see the break but the ball went to the right.  It was totally misread for two times.  This green is kind of a little hard to read sometimes.  It does pretty truly roll, but it is kind of tricky greens.  As I said it feels great, no matter what I miss or I make, just I'm in good shape. 


Q.  Who is on your bag now, who is caddying for you?

SE RI PAK:   Colin Cann. 


Q.  Were you talking with your caddie in the rough for a while on one hole?

SE RI PAK:   Really this, rough is kind of a little silly.  You can see so many stuff in the rough, you can't tell if something is brown, green, but still you can move the ball.  You can move  -- besides No. 7, the same thing.  Just long piece of  -- it looks like kind of piece of tree, I think, stick or something like that.  It looks like keep following, close to my ball and took it out and kind of moved from under my ball.  But later we find that it was so long, it goes to the little trees.  We didn't realize  it, so hard to see that.  She said to tell me to just go back to the original position or otherwise there's going to be a penalty.  I do whatever she said and then we find out later that it was not  -- move the ball. 

Later find back to the original position and everything is all set and we come back to make sure we are cleared up.  Just no penalties.  Next time in my future, I'll make sure that I'm knowing that .  I learned today, but as I said, it was kind of a little tricky around this rough. 

NEAL REID:  What hole was that on? 

SE RI PAK:   No. 7.  I missed my second shot way right and then kind of piece of thing that looks like some little stick.  It looks like a little stick but it's a twist of stuff.


Q. Are you 100-percent healthy?

SE RI PAK:   All set.  Feels great.  I'm ready to go. 


Q. Do you have any family with you here this week?

SE RI PAK:   My older sister is here.  And my mom and dad, I think they are traveling too much, and as I said, they have a bad memory 1998 here.  This time is perfect.  The weather is great, the food was  -- I mean, I don't think  -- I don't know what happened last time.  It was kind of totally different, but it was great.  It's really great and fun.  The weather seems like really great.  I was kind of expecting the bad weather.  I practiced a lot of wind shots, different shots but it turned out really nice. 


Q.  Is your sister traveling with you? 

SE RI PAK:   On and off.  Sometimes my old sister sometimes my younger, and sometimes my mom comes on a couple tournament, yeah.


Q.  Do you always have a family member with you?

SE RI PAK:   Not always.  Sometimes. 

NEAL REID:  Thank you very much. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT