WEETABIX WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 1, 2003
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








NEAL REID:  Good playing out there.  I talked to your caddie, and he said nobody in your group had a bogey all day.  Must have been good scoring conditions out there.

SE RI PAK:   Yeah, the weather, I don't think  -- I was expecting a lot of wind, a little raining, like same as 1998, first time in here.  I was not expecting bad weather, but it was really great.  There was not that much bother, you could really still play, and greens get a soft and kind of a little slow.  But the fairways were perfect.  Everything is really great.  Saved a lot of pars, not much birdie, but saved a lot of pars.  Everybody hit a bunch of fairways and greens.  So that means my game gets better, too, helps me a lot all day.

NEAL REID:  You have two 69s.  What have you been doing well this week so far?

SE RI PAK:  Still wind out there.  I think my controlling iron shot was really doing well.  Pretty much a lot of three-quarter shots or sometimes one-and-a-half quarter, have to choke down and hit punch shot.  Every iron shot was perfect, distance-wise, wind affecting, everything is really solid.  So that makes me play really well. 


Q. You had a bogey on 11.

SE RI PAK:   The par 5s, I think first I missed my driver to the right.  It was not too bad lie but I hit 6-iron on my second shot trying to punch out.  It was great. 

Third shot, I think too much wind out there, was all pretty much into the wind the back nine, so the same thing.  My punch shot, three-quarter swing was perfect, but as soon as I hit it, winds get really calm, so my third shot is over the green and I got a bad chip.  So I missed first chip for the day and first birdie for the day, too. 


Q.  The shot at 18 saved you from a bogey in the day.

SE RI PAK:   Second shot was in the bunker and then got up-and-down there and made a par.  That was perfect, I'm not complaining, I expected bogey, worst thing is bogey.  But that shot, the funny thing is, in the practice round me and my caddie, we practiced the lie, just in case one percent of chance I'm going to have it one day.  These bunkers are deep, narrow, small; it won't be always perfect lie.  We practiced the lie exactly same lie like that.  Much more work than that, but I feel as soon as I saw that ball, it just feels comfortable, like it was still playable, because I had practiced the lie.  So my caddie was kind of a little smiling and laughing, and hopefully it turns out nice, perfectly, and it was perfectly what I want to be, and I make the putt. 

So that pretty much makes my day, the last one, I think. 


Q. This puts you in a good position.

SE RI PAK:   I think so, yeah.  That's one shot, still it looks like many players play really well because the weather was really nice.  It's not easy out there, but still you can shoot a couple under par.  At least I still hung in there right behind a shot, so probably going to create great  -- great to be playing on the last two days, so I'm really happy about that. 


Q.  What do you think you need to shoot over the next two days? 

SE RI PAK:   Well, like that was today, let's say probably 3- to 6-under, actually 12- to 13-under, but it depends on what wind you get.  This wind, it starts blowing, the fairways is so narrow, you can shoot probably  -- you can't even think about it.  You just really, totally different game. 


Q. Do you remember your first visit here?

SE RI PAK:   Well, I got a really bad memory about that.  First time in 1998 and first time I had ever played a links golf course.  I don't think that my  -- it was everything, conditions, weather, food, everything makes me hard time.  So my dad says, you're not going to come back anymore here.  So I really didn't feel comfortable for playing, and I came back in England before, but I'm getting better for like last three years and different than 1998.  But this week this, golf course, the one makes me really bad memory.  That was my first rookie year. 

After, I won a lot and I know I have  -- I know I can use 14 clubs at the golf course.  I never feel that before I came here that I can use 14 clubs.  All I need to do is just hit it straight, make it spin a lot on the green and make some putts.  That's the way I'm pretty much used to it.  And now here, you can use putter to driver every single  time.  You can use every single club.  Like I said, it makes me learn a lot after I play this golf course and much more smarter, and I learn a lot about my game, too. 

So this week, it was kind of a little fun, exciting to come back.  I just want to see what it's going  to be playing this weekend because last time I came here was really bad.  But turned out really nice, I really enjoyed it and exciting to play this golf course again. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT