CHICK-FIL-A CHARITY CHAMPIONSHIP
April 27, 2003
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  I know you're tired, you said you already missed your flight tonight, but that's okay, right?
SE RI PAK:   I don't mind.

Q.  So, what do you think about the whole day and the playoff and everything?
SE RI PAK:   It was really fun, actually.  I was pretty happy on the first three holes, making birdie, looks like I'm pretty much tied for the lead, and then, I mean, that's what's great about this week.  The first round, I didn't really play well at all, but I start making putts second round, and then the last round I was pretty much ready to go.  Shani is a strong player with the last group makes me feel so much better, too.  Pretty much a tired day, pretty much difficult day, but nothing bad really happening to me, great Sunday.

Q.  You really got hot on the back nine and birdied 11 through 14, and then a couple more coming in.  Did you just get hot with the putter?
SE RI PAK:   I think so, especially today.  Really, I was guessing this morning before I teed off, at least I have to shoot like at least 8-under, I was guessing, and then I start making first three holes, and then I pretty much move close, close, kind of a little slow, like five or six holes, but start making again, but biggest thing is I missed number 10, tee shot in the water, but that was what gave me a hard time to focus on it after like eight holes to go, but I don't think you're just happy about it at all, but quick recovery, make bogey, next one make birdie, and after seems like I'm getting back to my game, so it was pretty good.  My putting today was much more solid.

Q.  In the playoff on the first hole you hit it in the bunker off the tee, and still made birdie, then the third hole, 18 again, you hit the 10th, still got it up and down, so you scrambled really well, and your short game was really good.
SE RI PAK:   Yeah, I mean, I was hitting it good, but missed the green.  My short game was much help, but today seems like helping a lot for me to, difficult lie, bad position, but worked pretty good.  I mean, last three holes at the playoff, that was mainly up and down.  I mean, impressed with myself, too.  I really work hard for that, difficult lie, and then bad lie, good lie, I have to work on that, but you really more focused, more into it, but not 100 percent you make your right or perfect spot, but last three at the playoff, which was perfect, whatever I need to hit, whatever I have to land it, everything was perfect.

Q.  Can you describe your last two great up-and-downs?
SE RI PAK:   Number 18 and then the last number 10.

Q.  Were you thinking about just putting it in the middle of the green on 10?
SE RI PAK:   Right.  That was really bad shot on the second shot of number 10.  I mean, I hit my 9-iron there, 127 to the hole, little breeze a little bit, but you don't want to be short there because, otherwise, you're in a lot of trouble, but trying to hit three-quarter nine and little pull, I don't mean to hit it that hard, almost perfect, just I don't have to work hard for it to win, but that's the way it is, golf, but look like I have lot of -- excited for myself. 
Anyway, yeah second shot, and the third shot and chipping is really hard, it's difficult lie.  You're not exactly tell it's in the rough or grass or sand.  Easy to miss that.  Just really to chip up there, but I did pretty good job, and then I read perfect the putt and, actually, putting saved my day.

Q.  It's ironic that her tee shot at 10 helped you win since you hit it in the water there in regulation.
SE RI PAK:   Right.  At least make bogey I really didn't have any  -- sometime I push myself a lot, but last shot on number 10 was pretty tricky break there.  I don't want to push myself less 5, 4 feet, come back and bogey, so I just, okay, just make it bogey at least, and then I'll have another chance.

Q.  You've played a lot of really good last rounds to win tournaments this year.
SE RI PAK:   Well, still pretty much hung in there.  She got a great second shot and she was like 90 percent she can win that hole, but, for me it was not a good lie at all.  I really lose it, but right on time, and I knew what I need to do and get close as I can, but I need to just on the green make it, hopefully close to the pin, make a birdie, perfect for me.  It was automatically downhill all the way, that was perfect.  That was a bad shot I hit, yeah.

Q.  You just seem to have good weekends.
SE RI PAK:   I like that.  I just always fun for me.  I mean, it's the reason the last two days, like I said, and the weekend I always feel better because, I don't know, I mean I really  -- I really like the challenge  -- probably challenge myself, too.  I have a lot of things make me so much better.  I don't know exactly what the reason for it but I enjoyed it.

Q.  You've been hitting it well lately?
SE RI PAK:   Yeah, but I have on my driver for a couple weeks.  I really not 100 percent I can feel free to swing it.  Missed a little left, right, always, I mean, I never had problem with my driver, but this year was kind of little bit of a hard control.  I missed the one miss left, should be the next shot is right, I don't know, I just kept doing that, but I saw that her ball was left but I pull my driver left by number 10 tee, but remind me again, oh, my God, just was hard for me to focus, not to think about that, because three times in a row you never forgot anyway, right, but this time, okay, I said never miss the left, I'm going to miss the right, maybe feel better when I did it.
Everything perfect today.  I mean I already planned for to leave tomorrow before I came here.  Supposed to leave tonight, but was just in case, but what happened, I'm really glad.

Q.  It helps that the person you're chasing is playing well, right?
SE RI PAK:   Well, looks like -- it's not easy.  I mean, especially Shani because she played big time.  I mean, she got in good position for couple times.  She's really good player too, but, well, whatever happen, I'm really happy no matter what, not because I'm winning right now, but if I lose I'm still going to be happy because I play my pretty much best last Sunday, so I mean, she played really good, but I played at the same time pretty good.

Q.  You play well in the pressure.
SE RI PAK:   Right.  I mean, I really like that, though.  I mean, especially today, last group was really strong players, I mean, Karrie, she won so many times, she was leading by three shots, and I know she's not going to just go away, she's not going to back up, and Shani Waugh, I know her looks like she's striking the ball well, so I need to just be there, play as good as I can and focus my game more, and then make many putt as I can, but last year  -- especially yesterday, in the afternoon, I make a lot of putt, I feel a lot of confidence in my putt.  The first round I really kind of little -- it looks like I lost my confidence, but second round I was playing confident, and today I miss  -- first there was the three holes, kept making 10 feet from the hole, that makes me  -- make my day, just keeping going.

Q.  Did you see that Suzann Pettersen was playing so well early?
SE RI PAK:   I saw her score at the -- number 8, I think.  She was at 7-under after pretty much nine holes, but still many holes to go.  I mean, no matter what, this golf course things happen.  You can make a lot of birdies or you make lot of bogeys. 
Especially front nine, looks like she got a really great feeling about herself, but I know many left so I need  -- didn't pretty much think about it out there, every hole, shot by shot, every shot, and just play pretty much my game, so much better today.  I have to care about so many things, I don't think I could play golf out there.

Q.  With the start to your season going so well, do you think you can challenge Annika Sorenstam?
SE RI PAK:   Pretty close, but just this is something, I mean, I'm pretty close.  I don't think I'm not just too far away.  After this tournament, I get much more confidence about myself and whatever (inaudible) someone or some tournaments, too, I feel really great about that.

Q.  When did you feel that you were going to win?
SE RI PAK:   I never ever thought I'm going to win this, just come to 18, finish.  Never ever thought about that any tournament.  Whether I'm leading by five or seven, doesn't matter, I need to just final scorecard and they say, oh, you're the winner, okay.  (Inaudible).

Q.  How far was the winning putt?
SE RI PAK:   Make the playoff? 

Q.  On 10.
SE RI PAK:   Like I am, more than 15, like 18, yes.  The best putts for the week, actually second putt.  Make a birdie on number 18, make the playoff, that was great putt I ever had.  I was hoping playoff myself.

Q.  What happened on that chip shot on 18 in regulation when you left it short?
SE RI PAK:   I mean, all the way down we just don't want to hit too far because going to be releasing big time, so I need to think like a soft landing and hopefully release the cup, but I think it's just great the way -- I'm thinking too much, I guess, trying to just best shot as I can.  I just want to show the fans a good show.  I always make it little hard I think, but it was a pretty good recovery, I like that.



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT