CHICK-FIL-A CHARITY CHAMPIONSHIP
April 26, 2003
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Good playing out there today.
SE RI PAK: Thank you.  Better than earlier, actually.

Q.  Better than earlier, you're right.  Because you bogeyed two of your last four holes finishing up this morning.  So, you were probably a little bit disappointed when you finished the round.
SE RI PAK: I was feeling pretty good yesterday.  I was striking the ball really good.  And I felt really.  I had a lot of confidence.  On the green I was really solid too.  It's too bad that I just ran out of the light.  We had to stop and tee off in the morning and then still it feels pretty good.  But I missed so many putts earlier.  It looks like I'm aiming wrong or something.  I just don't know what happened on the golf course.  The earlier it was kind of complicated to play.  And then after I said, forget it, done is done.  And then I went out there and I was trying to play better than I can, as best as I can.  And I start making putts after front nine.  And I get much more confident coming from 13 on.  So it was pretty good.  It's fun out there. 

Q.  No bogeys in the afternoon.  You played really well.  Are you glad to be done with two rounds today and not have to come back tomorrow?
SE RI PAK: Oh, yeah.  Same as last year.  I had a problem last year with the same thing.  I had to play like two rounds or I had wake up at 5 o'clock in the morning and get up to get ready to tee off.  But it was pretty good.  To tell you the truth I could have been better than 8-under.  I missed so many putts earlier, but that's just golf.  So I really felt good the way I'm hitting.  So I'm pretty much excited to play tomorrow. 

Q.  Do you like playing this golf course?
SE RI PAK: Oh, yeah, I do.  Always.  It's fun.  It looks like you can shoot a low score here, but I don't think it's that easy.  You have to think a lot on the golf course to make sure that you have a lot of chance.  But at the same time you got to miss the ball where you can make another good up-and-down there.  So it's a pretty good golf course. 

Q.  Did it take you a while to settle down after the first round?
SE RI PAK: We were here like a half an hour, 30 minutes.  But after I finished the first round I was practicing around the green for 20 minutes and then hitting five or 10 drivers before I tee off.  And then I can't always thinking what I did before.  I mean past is past.  So it's 18 to go, hopefully I'll play well.  Just clear my mind and go out there and just tee off and play well.  And if I start making putts out there before I finish 18, so that was pretty good.  Good stretch there. 

Q.  So with your 65, putting was the big key?
SE RI PAK: Yeah.  First two rounds it was.  Especially on, I was really striking it really good but I couldn't much make the putts.  Like on 10 to 15, inside there, I could make a hundred percent all those putts, but I feel kind of a little confusing.  It looks like I can make more putts, but I just kept missing.  And at the same time I just kept missing and I lost the confidence.  But tomorrow I just -- I changing my mind so quick that I can play more better in the afternoon. 

Q.  What has been the key to the development of golf in Korea in the last five years?
SE RI PAK: Well I think it looks like they have much more dream about it.  Before nobody thought they were going to play here, the worldwide players to play together.  They know it's not easy to play on the LPGA.  But a couple years ago, first time I am playing my rookie year and nobody even here.  And then I start doing well it looks like all of a sudden they say, oh, why not, I can do that.  I saw her do that.  So I think that that's why they have many players are thinking whatever they do it gives them a lot of confidence.  They come over here and they play a lot and they do well. 

Q.  Was there any player who came before you from Korea that made you want to come to the LPGA?
SE RI PAK: Actually, no I don't think so, no.  By I was always wanting to be number one.  I just want to be always to be the best.  Always number one.  Always my dad told me, one thing you remember is to be number one.  Not second.  No matter what, a hundred times doesn't count.  Just one is what counts.  So it really does.  I just think, okay, just want to be number one in the world that's what I was thinking.  And if I work so hard and still that is still my goal. 

Q.  Where did you learn to play golf, at one of the many driving ranges in Korea?
SE RI PAK: I started pretty late but I -- basically I started on a wide open golf course and we just sometimes we played that.  Now it's better, but it was, a long time ago we had pretty much a hard time to practice.  Especially with the putts.  It's tough to find a place to practice. 

Q.  What time did you get up this morning?
SE RI PAK: Wake up, hot shower and then still my body was like, oh, I'm so tired.  We finished so late last night.  I finished my dinner at 10 and before I was asleep it was 11.  And it was like six or seven hours sleep.  It's pretty good sleep but when you wake up at 4:30, I don't think you get used to that.  But it's fun.  One time a year, that's it. 

Q.  What do you think about Michelle Wie as a player?
SE RI PAK: Well, she can play.  She really is strong.  Physically she looks really strong.  She's got a pretty solid swing too.  So she's still young, just needs a little more, get a little more experience.  But at her age, I mean it's incredible.  I mean really.  She has a pretty good swing and she does a pretty good job.  So I think she is having fun for this tournament.  So, that was pretty good.  So, she can be really good player, yes. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT