KIA CLASSIC
March 28, 2015
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Happy to be joined by Se Ri Pak.   8‑under 64 today, tying the course record, also by Dori Carter last year, Morgan Pressel earlier this week.   How much fun is it to play a round like that?
SE RI PAK:   No question about it, it's very fun to play, but hopefully every week we play it's going to be great.   But this golf course has never been easy, but out there just really, really have to focus every single shot.   That really helps a lot because I was gone for too long.   I shot a shoulder injury last year, and this is my third event.   I wasn't expecting anything, just each week hopefully get better.   My game is getting together.   But until yesterday it wasn't really great, but today it was happening, so it really helps a lot.   It was really fun.

Q.   You mentioned yesterday and today.   Today is moving day.   You made quite a move today.   What was your mindset and your approach coming into today?
SE RI PAK:   It wasn't anything.   I said my expectation wasn't too high this week because I'm trying to prepare for next week and this is all I really needed, but I said, my game is not really together yet, so I was hoping each week to get better.   My game is closer.   It feels better.   This is what happened yesterday.   Yesterday, same thing after the round I went to the range and hit a couple shots and make sure the way‑‑ I do the same thing every single swing.   Today out there, same thing, I really focused 110 percent and just do my best out there and then it was happening today.

Q.   There's a lot of players still out there within one shot of you who are tied for the co‑lead.   What does that mean as far as your approach for tomorrow when so many players are in it?
SE RI PAK:   Well, I know that definitely everybody gets together.   One or two shots is not huge differences.   But tomorrow, same thing, I'm just going to keep the same game plan and just go out there and try to enjoy myself and do my best and hopefully have a good round. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT