CHICK-FIL-A CHARITY CHAMPIONSHIP
April 24, 2003
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. (Inaudible).
SE RI PAK: What time I got here yesterday?  1:45, yes. 

Q.  Thank you, Se Ri for joining us at the Chick-fil-A Championship by Nancy Lopez.  If you want to talk about the tournament, then maybe a little about Nancy herself.
SE RI PAK: The tournament is really fun.  It's a three-day tournament, but the golf course is in good shape and condition (inaudible) everybody playing, and, by the way, I just love Nancy so I'm not going to miss the tournament.

Q.  What is it about Nancy and her career that inspires your respect?
SE RI PAK: First, important for me to me knowing her personally and personality.  I mean, she's top player, great player, but just doesn't mean she's a great player, but she's having pretty nice personality with all the players, people, she's forgiving to people and she can help if she can.  As a rookie she (inaudible) and then she's pretty much understanding and listen people. 
I've had a hard time and trying to talk to her and she's always just there and give me a little idea and makes me feel better and comfortable, just there my rookie year (inaudible) I have someone to talk to, someone, and it was pretty important for rookie, and then out of different country, you know, it's not easy to live here, to be not used to what's going on at all, but she's helping pretty much.  Not only me, all the players, too.

Q.  And Nancy helps the entire LPGA Tour?
SE RI PAK: Yeah, she's really lovely person.

Q.  Is there a different feel for the tournament this week with Annika not here, and what impact does that have coming into the tournament?
SE RI PAK: Just Annika not playing this week (inaudible) not only Annika is missing, but everybody is going to play this week, but I still have a lot of top players without Annika, but this golf course, this tournament, it's going to be same as another tournament, yeah.

Q.  What kind of a challenge -- the weather is always different here all the time, but what kind of challenge is this course?  Does it make you play all the shots?
SE RI PAK: All the shots, yeah, not only greens or fairways, all the shots.  Every hole is a lot of trouble out there, depends on the weather, but the way this golf course (inaudible) I don't think going easy at all.

Q.  Is it the kind of course that you attack or do you manage your game or does it tempt you to take chances?  Is it hard to decide whether to take chances?  Is it tricky?
SE RI PAK: It is tricky, yeah.  You can just go for it, but pretty will much manage your play.  A lot of tricky holes out here.

Q.  I have to ask you, we ask everybody, what do you think about what Annika is doing next month?  Are you happy for her?  I know this isn't the first time anybody asked you, but what are your feelings about that?  What do you think she might do, and how important is it to the game of women's golf?
SE RI PAK: (Inaudible) I mean, personally for me, was expecting nothing at all.  It's a 50/50 thing.  If she do really great, then next month, I think, (inaudible) and then might not as good as right now.  It's going to be some different many people like for the LPGA, but that was little bit of risky (inaudible) but, I mean, she got a lot of fair game in herself, and she's physically strong, and her game is getting better every year.  She had a really great year last year.  I think she should play, but (inaudible) good for her.  I wish for her to play well.

Q. Do you understand why Annika is doing it?
SE RI PAK: Give herself a challenge, I think (inaudible) striking balls better, she has a lot of confidence in herself.  (Inaudible) I really love to do the same thing as her but right now she got a lot of confidence  -- maybe she's just going to try something new, I think.

Q.  Do you see anybody else attempting that from the LPGA tour?
SE RI PAK: Pardon me?

Q.  Do you see anybody else playing in a men's event down the road from this tour?
SE RI PAK: I really don't  -- kind of hard to answer, I mean, really.

Q.  No more Annika.
SE RI PAK: Thank you.

Q.  You had a huge  -- fantastic rookie year, big splash, then I guess that inspired the other players like Annika and Juli, they saw what you did, and they came back.  If you were to compare the way you were mentally from when you were a rookie, went down a little bit, then back up, now you're one of the best, talk about growing as a golfer from rookie to now and how you changed.
SE RI PAK: Big change.  Once again pretty much I changed almost like eight to nine.  First (inaudible) better than before, I mean, before I was like golf, I just want to be number one, I just want to be the best, same as the rookie year, but seems like for me (inaudible) anything, just play golf, and the first year, second year, and third year I was pretty much (inaudible) 2000 year, I didn't want anything, and just a hard time for me to just play awhile. 
That's the year makes me big changing, too (inaudible) different, hard, I learned more (inaudible) what's going on (inaudible) so I think mostly for myself for myself, just like carrying or thinking better, it's not my game, just for myself, to learn more, understanding what's going on around, I have to take care of that, and that's why I think I feel much more comfortable and looks like I'm more resting instead of push myself and give hard time for myself out there.  Right now just really fun.  Every time just really fun to play instead of a lot of pressure on.

Q. You have a lot of pressure from the Korean media? Right?
SE RI PAK: Right.  That was give me hard time another step.  Looks like first rookie year I was doing really well, and now people thinking she can win every week.  People, if they understand golf, can't win every time, but it looks like you're really  -- i mean, this putter (inaudible) they really care about me, but I can't win every week.  I mean, they watch TV or tournament, everybody say, "Oh, she going to win this time, she has to win this time."  Not have to, can't do, have to, you know, and people just keep, every year, every tournament, "You're not winning, what happened?  You have problem?  Or not practicing enough."  Or just give me a lot of pressure. 
Like 50 percent of what people thinking, what newspaper is saying, that give me hard time, but right now they understand more, actually, much better.  The first time my country, never happened before, everything is pretty pro golf, and they just, like, Se Ri, she's not winning, but right now, five years later, and now people understand more, now they say "She's doing great.  She's the best for my country, or our country." 
And right now more players coming from my country.  They are more behind it and more  --

Q.  What do you think about what Michelle Wie is doing and how do you assess her chances this week?
SE RI PAK: I think she's a great kid.  I mean, only 13-year old, she got some swing.  I mean, she can swing really well because she have some  -- i don't know, I mean, actually, she's learned more about playing for the professional golfer, but she's going to be really good.  She is strong enough and she kind of big girl, doesn't look 13 years old, but she's in great shape, and I just kind of interesting, you know, for 13-year old.  She's Korean?

Q.  Both her parents are Korean, but she was born in Hawaii.
SE RI PAK: I see.  Somebody said half Korean or -- right, okay, so, I mean, that's pretty good.  I mean, a young kid from my country, looks like a great talent, I really want to see how she starting to play this week.  Hopefully she can play this week.

Q.  Do you think Michelle has a good chance of contending this week?
SE RI PAK: I can't say like she's going to be good, but possibly, yes.  I mean, you know how golf, one week you play one, next week you miss cut, that's golf, but she going to be having great tournament or great success.

Q.  Are you the type who attacks the course?  Do you learn the course and manage your game around it, or do you pick your spot, sometimes you attack, sometimes  -- are you an aggressive player?
SE RI PAK: Pretty much aggressive player, but I'm (inaudible) first two or three years (inaudible) can't just always grasp it, you have to take more in the golf (inaudible) play sometimes smart, sometimes I grasp of it, sometimes more a regimen (inaudible).

Q.  The only thing I have is right now everyone is talking about women's golf, you, Annika, Karrie Webb Juli Inkster, it's like you guys are the big four.  Is it fun  -- you compete a lot in close tournaments with those players.  Is that fun  -- is it enjoyable competing with the best on Sunday?
SE RI PAK: Yeah, I always like to play with all the top players.  I like the challenge, yes.  It's fun.  Of course, a lot of fans going to be following, I like that, too.  It's going to be fun.

Q. Is it negative for all the attention to be on one player, like Annika?
SE RI PAK: I don't think it is negative. I mean, of course someone is going to be tough, everyone is, just knowing about her, or even gallery, they are really following Annika right now, she just play so good and looks like she got good game, people like to see, it's exciting to watch.  That's probably good, but hopefully some.  I mean, not 100 percent.  50 percent (inaudible) pay attention to other players, too.  There is a lot of great younger talent players in, every year, younger players come from a rookie, different country, that's pretty good thing, though.  (Inaudible) of course, the LPGA, so we just want to be all together.

Q.  My last question:  Korea is providing the best program for producing young golfers, lots and lots.  What does your country do so well to produce  -- is it real organized for young golfers?  How are so many fine golfers coming out of South Korea?
SE RI PAK: They are pretty much organizing very young kids.  Even five years ago, hard to play, hard to find a sponsor, or just kind of the way they think about golf, no more people, just really think of a negative playing golf, but right now everybody just kind of make (inaudible) golf club, golf course, helping many kids if they can make it better, or a place to practice?  That's why much younger players  -- or a young kid is getting so much better than a couple years ago, I think.  



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT