ADT CHAMPIONSHIP
November 21, 2002
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  How do you feel?
SE RI PAK:  How do I feel?  Well, very tired.  Especially can't eat at all.  So pretty much hard to walk, hard to swing.  My caddie was putting that meal drink because I can't eat it.  He just hung the bottle and he kept feeding me on the golf course. 
This is my first time, that I feel it's this difficult to play golf.  First time I ever feel my club is so heavy, too.  But I pretty much hung in there all day today. 
I was really relaxed on the golf course.  I was trying to focus more because I'm not feeling well.  It was good.  I played Annika, making me more focused, so just go out there and do my best.  Actually, I played really well, so I'm pretty much happy bout today.  I really wasn't expecting that I'm going to play well. 

Q.  When is the last time you were able to  eat?
SE RI PAK:   Last time probably a week ago.  Just one day, a little bit of meal all day.  I can't eat too much.  It's really hurting a lot.  So all I can is just drink and then try to eat some fruit but still can't eat it. 
My mom was there.  She's trying to give a lot of stuff  -- and then lose weight so quickly, too. 

Q.  Is it an impacted tooth?
SE RI PAK:   It's infected.

Q.  Do they have to remove it?  Is it going to be like this for a while? 
SE RI PAK:   It's been like this for a couple of years already.  Before that, I kill my nerves.  The doctor has already done everything, but for some reason, starting two weeks ago in Japan, the Mizuno, on the last day it started a little bit of hurting.  I thought it's not a big deal.  Sometimes you feel tired and get little teeth hurting.  Just in case, I went to the doctor in Japan and I went to dentist and I ask him about the teeth and he said he can't exactly say the problem but what's hurting  -- as soon as he starts touching, I can't play.  He just wants me to stay there because it takes longer to fix.  So I've just been able to play this week, so I just kind of hung in for another week. 
My thing is, too much painful.  I shouldn't be here to do something, to make myself a hard time.  But, anyway, however, I'm here, trying to be here.  I try my best.

Q.  How much weight have you lost, and also, talk about what happened to your wrist.
SE RI PAK:   I don't know, maybe I lost a couple pounds, I think  -- if my pants get really bigger.
My wrist, this morning I was hitting the ball on the range.  Somehow my muscle was a little pulled, my hand.  It kind of really hurt for, I think, half an hour, on the right side.  But I take care and put on ice real quickly.  A couple of holes sometimes hurting but it's not too bad.  Not as bad as my teeth so I don't think I really even care. 

Q.  You are between treatments; has the dentist started treatment?
SE RI PAK:   Not yet.  He can't even start.  After this week, right away. 

Q.  How about that leaderboard, though, it's got all of the heavy hitters up there on the top right now.  You've got to be pretty excited that it's the usual people. 
SE RI PAK:   Oh, yeah, of course.  This week is the Top-30 players.  I don't think anyone is going to be playing bad this week.  Everybody is such a great player, especially if you look at the leaderboard, I think the players on the top  -- so pretty much excited about it. 
Then, well, three days to go.  I'll just try my best to hang in there, do my best.

Q.  Don't you have a history of playing well when you don't feel very good? 
SE RI PAK:   I think so.  I was like  -- I've been well for a while.  I think so.  I won a couple of times.  I would get cold  -- pretty much I have a lot of colds, and I won a couple of times.  But this time it's a little different.  Just really hard, different.  Teeth hurting is kind of a lot of pain.  Pretty much a hard time to focus on it.  I pretty much, three days, hung in there.  Even this morning I was having a hard time to practice.  My body was like a ton of weight.  It looks like, really heavy, I don't have any energy at all.  Then I hurt my wrist and everything is getting worse. 
So most I think about to do this tournament and go back to finish my teeth.  But I'm here a couple days, it can't go away.  Just have to go out and play well.  It's helping a little bit.

Q.  What was your mom doing out there for you, just talking to you, trying to keep your spirits up? 
SE RI PAK:   No, she's just part my kind of following me and partly prayed for me, too.  All day my caddie works so hard, feed me all day, make sure I drink a little bit, and a little bit of soup please, and please, and please.  That's why I kind of pretty much hung in there 18 holes. 

Q.  Are you taking any kind of pain medicine? 
SE RI PAK:   Yes, a couple of times a day, Advil, Motrin, Alleve and everything  -- inaudible  -- I have to take it otherwise I can't handle it. 
Like meal drinks, like chocolate, tea, stuff like that, right.

Q.  It must feel pretty good to start the day with so many things going wrong and to end up in the position that you're in now?
SE RI PAK:   Oh, yeah, I'm happy right now.  But I'll try, I had really hard time out there today.  I tried to focus out there and that was much harder.  Sometimes I really focus and that puts me in a lot of pain, too.  So it's 50/50, happy and then I'm pretty much tired. 

Q.  It's hard beating Annika when you feeling 100 percent.  How hard is it when you have these problems, how difficult is it going to be the next three days? 
SE RI PAK:   I don't think it's easy at all.  I mean, I don't have any words for her.  She's the best for this year and a couple of years already.  She is such a great player, she plays so well.  But at the same time, she helped me to play well, too.  I don't think it came, let's say, this week, I don't know if I can barely, barely beat her, but then just do my best.  All I can do out there is just, you know, try to play well and hopefully do well.  I mean, I really don't want to push myself to win.  I really have a hard time to play, so just do my best, that's all I can do.  Hopefully have a good tournament this week, the last tournament of the season. 




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT