BANK OF MONTREAL CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN
August 17, 2002
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









NEAL REID:  Let's do your scorecard, okay.

SE RI PAK:  My scorecard?  Okay.  I got first birdie on number 4.  What iron did I hit?  I can't remember. 

(Laughter.) I'm going to say -- I can't remember. 

Okay.  Number 4 I got into the wind I got 6-iron.  And then probably around 15 to I think pretty much 20 feet downhill.  Made birdie. 

Then first bogey on number 5.  I missed the fairway on the left and then I missed the green and again to the left.  And I chipped up and it left me about six feet uphill.  And it was not enough speed so I just missed that.  So I make a bogey. 

Then second birdie on number 7.  I hit my gap wedge and then left me like 20 feet, 23 feet.  25 feet.  I made birdie. 

Number 9 it was my 7-wood in the rough, the left-hand side.  And then I think that's just over the green, that was approximately 40 feet.  I two putt.  Made birdie. 

Then made another birdie on number 14.  Third shot was my sand wedge.  And then around 10 feet.  Made birdie. 

Number 15 my three quarter 8-iron.  That was 15 feet.  Made birdie. 

Number 16, my pitching wedge on the second shot.  Around like 15 feet.  20 feet. 

Made bogey on 17.  I missed the green on the left side.  The chip was pretty good.  It left me about six to seven feet for par.  I missed that and made bogey there. 
NEAL REID:  All right.  You mentioned long putts today.  You've been putting well then?

SE RI PAK:  I did.  Actually first two days I kind of -- a lot of wind was going on on the golf course, so I still made pretty good putts.  I missed a lot then.  But today it was always pretty good speed.  And then I made some long putts.  Missed some, but make more.  And then I'm hitting it a little better the first today.  First today was kind of a little I'm not feeling good, I was still feeling a little sick.  But I felt much better and I hit it a little bit better. 
NEAL REID:  Questions?
Q.  They always say that it's on Saturday when the golfers put them in good position for Sunday's round.  What was your mindset at the beginning of the round today?

SE RI PAK:  Today?  Well, I was always same thing of pretty much I start pretty slow for me whole year already.  First two days is kind of a little behind and then the weekend I play better.  So today the same thing.  Just go out there, trying to have some fun and then I feel much better as soon as I get to the range.  My body feels better so I'm pretty much ready to go.  So I just go out there and say, okay, just make as many birdies as you can.  In this last two days it's not much choice, just go out there.
Q.  At minus two do you feel comfortable to make a move tomorrow?

SE RI PAK:  Oh, yeah.  On this golf course anything can happen.  The score is always going to be still there.  Not much moving around because of the wind, the golf course and green conditions, everything is make it really harder.  So tomorrow I will play like this today or just something kind of happens.  But just go out there and try the best I can. 
Q.  You had birdies at 14, 15 and 16 and then you missed that little putt on 17.  How did you feel about that?  How did you feel after that?

SE RI PAK:  I was mad at that time.  But that's the way the golf is.  You make some long putts or you miss a short putt.  You can't even guarantee you make every putt.  So today I hopefully I had a good attitude actually.  I go out there, I miss a lot, but I make a lot pretty good distance putts.  So just pretty much it was fair.  I mean you miss, you make, you miss.  That's the way golf is.  You go out there, just do my best.  Of course it's a lot of golf left.  But I think still one day left, I feel good about it. 
Q.  If you have another round tomorrow like you did today, how would you assess your chances of coming out victorious tomorrow?

SE RI PAK:  Well, let's say the leader is right now still 5-under now still?  I think that the next, let's say eight to nine under is going to be winning tomorrow.  Maybe under that.  So tomorrow maybe same as today is I got a good chance.  But I really don't want to push myself.  Just go out there, just do my best and then just try and have some fun.  Okay, I'm done?  Thank you. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT