WEETABIX WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 8, 2002
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







LAURA NEAL:  Se Ri, let's start with some comments about your round today and then we'll go through your score card.
SE RI PAK:   I was feeling great.  What I said yesterday, swing, everything is great.  All I need to do is make some putts because I was struggling from my putting for a couple weeks.  So I was working really hard on my putter, and then today, it's working.  I make a lot of good putts and then didn't miss much, but the swinging is not great, but on the greens, my putting is perfect.  So I make a lot of putts, a lot of big putts, and then everything is going well. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
SE RI PAK:   Well, I'm still there.  I don't know why I take a lot of pill, but it didn't go away, but it's okay.

Q.  (Inaudible.)
SE RI PAK:  Miss on the right side on the bunker and then was I think eight to nine feet.  That was a pretty solid putt, but solid lipping out.  I thought I almost made it but just solid lipout.  Otherwise, all day I was pretty good.  I mean, putting still is perfect.  Solid putt and then that gives a lot of confidence.  I think it's pretty good today. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
SE RI PAK:   Well, I think mentally, especially we know that the majors are getting much harder, harder condition, especially this week.  They are really hard.  It's kind of interesting. 
So I think mentally, stronger  -- that's why the majors already get really more focus on it, and then trying to  -- I mean, every bad shot every hole, every second.  But it's much easier to forget it and keep going, 1 to 18th hole.  So I think making better because the thoughts are not more different than normal tournament, I guess. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
SE RI PAK:   Well, I think  -- she didn't play well today, but I can see that she gets stronger.  I mean, her swing speed is a little better than a couple years ago, and then she didn't make much putts  -- and then irons get on and off on and off when she does real well, so then she comes back again.  She's still pretty good shape.  Otherwise, she's pretty good.

Q.  (Inaudible.)
SE RI PAK:  Well, with her, it's the same thing.  If she win more, of course.  For me, it's like every week, I try to win, but of course it's not easy.  Let's say for herself, yes, she's got a lot of confidence and her game is almost perfect so she can say that, yes.  But everybody  -- she says she like it more strong wind?  Well, I think I've got to like that one. 
It's kind of confusing.  Like a strong wind today, but it was pretty much calm.  Before I tee off it looks like the wind is picking up, but it depends on how the wind is blowing, so let's say, I mean, for me, if the wind is stronger it's not much fun game.  So, hopefully not to be strong wind, but if the wind is blowing or that condition, I don't mind. 

Q.  Have you ever played with Mhairi McKay? 
SE RI PAK:   Yes, I played with her a couple of years ago.   First time at the 1998 U.S. Open, Saturday, I think.  I think her game is getting really good, though, right now.  Her putting is well, her swinging is really well.  It looks like she has a lot of confidence and maybe she knows the golf course. 
Otherwise, she's a really nice person.  She doesn't talk much but she's pretty good. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
SE RI PAK:   Well, I think I played with experience for me to play all different kind of golf course, I guess.  First it was 1998, I don't think I have any idea of the different kind of condition golf course.  So I think that's why everything, my game, everything is affecting a lot because of the weather and the golf course conditions and the golf course shape, whatever. 
If I think about that, a lot of stressful, too.  But for me, a couple years later, I think my game is improved a lot.  I learn a will the about different kind of golf course conditions, and then I thought different  -- then tally get stronger.  So that's why now, any kind of golf course I feel confident right now.  Especially after last year, I won the British Open first time, and in England, that's why. 
First birdie No. 3, it was the par  5.  I use my 7-wood and second shot, that was a long putt.  I think around 75 to 40 feet for eagle:I.
No. 4, my 7-iron and it was I think around 20 feet. 
No. 7, 7-iron again.  Used my, a 3-wood on the green.  I think only like 20 feet, 2-putt. 
And then No. 11, my 6-iron on the green.  And that was like almost 15, 20 feet. 
No.  17, a got a bad tee shot, pulled left and laid up.  8-iron, third shot and then left by probably around ten feet  -- ten to nine feet. 
LAURA NEAL:  Se Ri, thanks for coming in.  Have a good night.



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT