WEETABIX WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 7, 2002
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







CONNIE WILSON:  Talk about coming back here and defending and obviously what you think of the course, having been out there today. 
SE RI PAK:   Always happy to come back right after you won, last year, because you have a great memory.  And then, well, the golf course, let me just say, the golf course is really fun.  It's really different.  I mean, different than last year. 
Last year it was okay, but this year it was definitely different.  The wind, golf course conditions and then the weather, everything, different golf game again.   Pretty exciting, about to play.  I don't think you can play this kind of golf in America, actually, always perfect conditions, sunny, sometimes raining but not too bad.  But here, a lot of wind, cold.  Every second, it changes weather. 
So I don't think it's easy.  Kind of a little bit stressful, the golf this week, but I think it will be fun. 

Q.  When did you get here?
SE RI PAK:   Sunday night.

Q.  First time?
SE RI PAK:  Yeah, first time. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
SE RI PAK:   Well, that was horrible memory there.  I don't want to think about that.  That was the first time ever I played a links golf course.  The wind was there, raining every day.  I shoot a really, really bad score.  Then I took out of control myself.  I just don't know how to play that kind of conditions.  I just don't know how to play all different kind of shots and then the rain is hard.  I know the tournament, it's such a big tournament, trying to play well, but everything is all messed up.  I just  -- never come back again, it's hard to come back. 
And then last year was though choice because this tournament is starting LPGA last major, so I have to play.  Last year was pretty good, fun.  This is like different golf game, but I think I'm learning a lot.  I can use every shot, every kind of play, I know how to do that, and make a lot of things.
So it's fun, but I think this week, it's kind of a little different than last year again.  It's going to be fun.  It's going to be interesting, I think. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
SE RI PAK:  Well, a lot of short game, I think, is different than we're used to playing in America.  Like a lot of bump-and-run, a lot of different irons you can use.  Sand wedge, 5-iron, 3-wood, whatever you use, 14 clubs.  That is totally different from America  -- sand wedge, probably 8-iron.  But here, sand wedge is  -- all 14 irons, I can use here.  Every different kind of lie, the weather is, of course, going to be affecting a lot.  So, it is.  It's going to be an interesting game. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
SE RI PAK:   Actually I just got here Sunday night.  I caught a plane from London to here.  If the weather gets cold, bad luck for me, but otherwise, things are great. 

Q.  (Inaudible)?
SE RI PAK:   Two rounds.  I got here Sunday night, but I drive here until Monday night.  Yesterday was first time here and today second time.   




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT