MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP
July 9, 2002
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Let's wait and do your score card, let's talk about  --
SE RI PAK:  My score card? 

Q.  Let's talk about your round first and then we will do score card after.  Or do you want to do it now?
SE RI PAK:  Whatever.  Let's do it now.

Q.  That's fine.  Your decision.
SE RI PAK:  Okay.  First birdie, number 2, I have my 9-iron in my hand, and then was almost 9 feet, I make birdie. 
Second birdie on number 4, I used my gap wedge and then only 2 feet from the hole to make birdie. 
And number 5, I was using my 7-iron and then left about 25 feet downhill, and then I really, really tough downhill there.  I first putt and then past like 8 feet, so I make a 3-putt there, so I make bogey. 
And then number 10, another wedge, and then just almost 3 feet, make birdie. 
Number 14 use my pitch wedge, three-quarter pitch wedge, and then was like 9 feet. 
And then 15, another bogey again.  I pulled my driver to the left and then I was in the rough, use my 7-iron, and only 25 yards to the pin, but my chip was really bad, I missed so bad, and then left me about 12 feet, 
13 feet, made bogey. 
Number 18, I used my 7-wood on the tee and I did really, really bad, and about 185 yards to the pin.  I use my 4-iron, I miss to the right, in the bunker, and that was a pretty good bunker there, but it's pretty tough out there, and then just short  -- just before the green, so I got a first cut there and then chip to 1-putt, make bogey there.  I had a bogey, yeah.  One, two, three, four.

Q.  Okay.  Do you want to talk about your round in general, before we start questions, how you are feeling?
SE RI PAK:  Well, it feels great, really awesome.  I was here for a whole week and I play for four days, the tournament, and then it was pretty tough mentally, actually, tough, this golf course, greens still firm, fairways got dry, rough was really long, greens really fast. 
And earlier this week, I mean, the way I am swinging, really solid, aggressive, feels great, and I have a lot of confidence in my swing, and then at the same time my putting really good, too, I got a perfect speed always, didn't miss much putt, didn't miss much fairways and greens.  That's why I think I got a pretty good score in this week.

Q.  Okay.  When do you think you were in control, at what point?
SE RI PAK:  Never, ever.

Q.  Not even  --
SE RI PAK:  I was on 18, I was in the bunker, and I thought, okay, so I got to get up and down  -- hopefully make par, but if not, make bogey.  Then I kind of chance to win.  Otherwise, I never, ever think about this game is over.  Anything  -- no matter what's going to be happen, this golf course, you see Beth today and then Webb today, you can see not many players under par today, so I really didn't have any chance to think about okay, done, just do my best, do same routine, until done, and then finally on 18 I realized I am winning.

Q.  You feel good now?
SE RI PAK:  Oh, yeah, feels great.  It feels great.

Q.  Talk about your second shot on 10.  That was a pin that no one  -- very hard to get at that pin.
SE RI PAK:  It is.

Q.  Do you think you had a good shot to get it out?
SE RI PAK:  Couple holes, pretty much stop quick, instead of bouncing and firm.  We already find out a few days, me and my caddy.  You are not going to hit a lot short.  If you hit it short, you come way, way back down to the edge, so me and my caddy, like, okay, pretty much halfway from the green, then we use wedge there, hit it there, bounce going to be start, still in good shape. 
And I knew the ball was going to stop quick, especially that hole.  Everybody thinks it's going to be harder there, but really does much as any hole, I think, so I really always have confidence that hole to get close to pin and then make a chance if I can, and especially I am not going to hit it short, either way long, so, I mean, that's one of the best swings for the day, too.  I hit it really solid, perfect yardage, perfect club in my hand, and I knew that.  I knew, but I never thought I would get that close.

Q.  Were the greens as hard today as they were the rest of the week?
SE RI PAK:  It is hard.  Well, like first day, the afternoon going to be rain, so a little bit softer and second round.  After that dry again, and get firm again, get fast again, so, I mean, nothing much big difference as first day.

Q.  Se  Ri, what did you think it would take today?  What did you think you would have to shoot to win?
SE RI PAK:  Even.  I was thinking I played, let's say, just par play, it's going to have to chance because, I mean, maybe everybody knows this golf course, how difficult it is.  I mean, you miss the green or you miss the fairway, best to make a bogey there.  If worse, going to be much bigger number, so I would think, okay, just same routine as last three days, always not to miss the fairway, not to miss the green, or just trying not to make any much bogey, so just go out there and just do my best. 
Didn't think too much at the golf course, either, just always just same routine, pick a target and just good speed in my swing, and then looks pretty good for this week.

Q.  Was it hard to fight your impulses to be more aggressive on certain holes?
SE RI PAK:  No, especially  -- starting last week, I swing first really great, and I didn't pull well, and I was here, and my coach was here, and we worked a little bit of short game, the rough side, and swing speed, and it looks pretty much all set, and mentally I am pretty much ready, and I have a lot of confidence on the golf course.  So, I mean, this, I think, would be happy to play every hole more aggressive.

Q.  Se  Ri, you are now the youngest woman in history to win four major championships.  Did you know that going into this?  And now that you do know it, what does that mean to you?
SE RI PAK:  I really don't have any idea for make new record.  Always trying to make  -- for me, always pretty exciting to make new record or great, you know, play -- or like Annika was shooting 59, so trying to only play 58, like a little something special, I mean, always I like to do that, and then I always I realize  -- I always think about that was win at the Dinah going to be youngest player for Grand Slam.  And after that, we didn't have any idea for youngest to win four majors. 
It's true, if you know that maybe a little bit of pressure, but thank God, I didn't know that.  Little helping today maybe.

Q.  You seem to play really good when the course is really hard.  Why is that?
SE RI PAK:  I like that, actually.  I like the way the setup.  I don't know why.  I think I got more  -- much better focus, maybe, and probably my mental, again, was stronger.  That's why I think play much more better the golf course that are really difficult or harder.

Q.  Webb said early in the week that when people complain about the rough too long, the greens too fast, that they are probably not going to win this week.  Do you agree with that?
SE RI PAK:  I think so.  I mean, I never thought about it to complain for this.  Always, I never complain anything about the golf course.  No matter what, we have to take it, you don't have any choice.  Whether you make it easy or difficult or bad conditions, we have to play, so no point, if you complain, it's not going to change anything, so I think I agree.

Q.  Was this the hardest course you have played since the Women's Open, Black  Wolf?
SE RI PAK:  I think so.  One of them is, yes.  It's really hard this week.  I am always  -- after a round I go back to my hotel, I am just totally gone.  9 o'clock, just sleep, like I take a pill, quick.  So that much tired.  Really harder.

Q.  How do you celebrate this?
SE RI PAK:  I don't think right now, but when I back to Orlando probably, because I have to leave tonight to France for the Evian.  So just for this moment is happy, and then after that, same, same life, same-o, same -o.

Q.  Will you buy the drinks on the plane?
SE RI PAK:  Yeah.  Why not? 

Q.  Se Ri, since you won this big tournament and back home in Korea, they have a World Cup, which do you think will be bigger news in Korea?
SE RI PAK:  I am not sure, actually.  I mean, for my country was right now pretty much into it of the World Cup, especially we won a couple days ago; that was a big history for my country, too. 
So I don't know how big it's going to be, but it's not as much as maybe last year, I mean, even couple years, I think, so  -- hopefully, they know I win this week already, to know it.

Q.  Will you get up at 2:30 in the morning today and watch that game?
SE RI PAK:  No.  No, no, no, I never do that.  Well, I like soccer, but it's not  -- you know, I am not crazy about it.  Especially right now, I have to take my business, you know, take care of my business, so I have to sleep on time, wake up on time, take care of myself, and then go out and play.  I think that's the way.  And my country like that, too, and then, hopefully, my country win  -- I mean, better play tomorrow, maybe, with US and then Japan.  Hopefully, they have a good game together.

Q.  Did you like the fact that you were playing with Beth in that final group and it was just the two of you pretty much going for the win?  There wasn't anybody else to worry about?  Did that make it easier for you?
SE RI PAK:  No, not at all, really.  I mean, as I said earlier, I mean, this golf course, something going to happen anytime, anywhere, so I really didn't have any much think about that to take easy today.  I mean, go out there and same routine as first three days, just do my best and play best as I can. 
And especially right now, Webb is going to be in front of us, I knew she was going to good play, I don't think she give up, no matter what.  And then Beth is already top player, I know she going to play well because she play already three days really good, so just go out there, I mean, she made putt, miss putt, still just okay, next hole, still have a chance, whatever, just give myself like many comfort as I can.

Q.  Is your goal this year to be player of the year and do you think you can beat Annika?
SE RI PAK:  Starting last year.  Annika beat me many times, but this year, yes, definitely.  I mean, do my best.  Of course, right now Annika is leading by huge, I think, and she play a little bit more  -- a couple more tournaments than I do, but I feel great about it, so let's see end of the year who is going to take it, just do my best.

Q.  Couple more questions or  -- who is your coach?
SE RI PAK:  Same coach, didn't change, Tom Creavy.  Starting last year, actually.

Q.  I see you are still wearing your Samsung hat.  Has that contract come to an end?
SE RI PAK:  Well, this is the last day.  I mean, I already finished last week, but just say, you know, I am really proud my sponsor was the last five years, and then I really think of wear it, so I just wear it for last time, so this is really last time to wear the Samsung hat, so can't see this thing anymore.  I am going to miss that. 

Q.  What are we going to see instead?
SE RI PAK:  I got no idea yet.  Hopefully I have a  -- I mean, I think I have  many (inaudible) of my hat, so I don't know what's going to be happening, but I am going to miss my Samsung.

Q.  Okay.  We are going to run in there, so if you have any other questions. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT