MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY AIG
June 8, 2002
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.:  Se Ri, thanks for coming in.  68, that's one of the low rounds for the day.  Can you talk about what was going right for you out there?
SE RI PAK:  I mean, I pretty much exactly same as first round.  I was striking the ball really good, and my swing feels great, and my putting is really well, so, I mean, always same routine, same tempo and same course measurement, too. 
So just go out there, just do my best, that's my  -- same plan, not to miss a green, not to miss the fairway, just it, just make  -- I am not going to  -- close to the pin, close to the pin, anything, just try to play aggressive as I can and make great speed on the green.  I am not going to miss the fairway so I am just going to hit it straight on the fairway, and it feels great, you know, solid swings and solid putt, then I got a great score today.

Q.:  Are you surprised that so few people are under par here?
SE RI PAK:  We just talk about this, we knew after the practice round on Tuesday, and we already know that it's going to be not easy at all.  It's like different than any years, greens get firm, rough is so long, and then the fairway is firm and just going to be happen, so everybody already expect that it's not going to score this week.  Even I do.  Probably swings par, that's a good score for four days.

Q.:  What kind of score is 8 under?
SE RI PAK:  Well, sometimes it's going to happen, even tomorrow, myself, I can't even guarantee that, either.  I hit it pretty good today, and swing feels great, but I can tell that tomorrow is going to be same thing.  I mean, you miss the fairway, and just going to happen, it's going to be big number or good number or bad number anywhere, anytime, so just go out and just trying to have some fun.

Q.:  Do you think Beth is going to be hard to catch?
SE RI PAK:  Actually, it's not easy.  She got a pretty good score for three days.  I mean, she got a pretty good 3-shot lead, 4-shot lead  -- 4-shot lead. 
So she is going to be in pretty good shape, but you know what?  The golf course conditions, as I said, you can't tell anything about it, so just go out there, just do my best tomorrow and then try and more aggressive play as any day and then go out and have some fun.

Q.:  Se Ri, did you know anything about Beth  Daniel before you joined the LPGA tour?
SE RI PAK:  I knew a little bit, but so many great players, I can't even  -- I look for all players, especially all the Hall of Famers is great.  That's one of my goals.  I knew about her, and she win a lot, and I knew it, and  -- but that's like pretty long time ago, and now Annika and Karrie and such great players on the tour, but I knew she a good player.  I don't think she is going to give up, I think she is going to play again.

Q.:  Do you like to come from behind like this or would you prefer to be in the lead?
SE RI PAK:  Either way.  Doesn't matter for me.  Either way, leading or just a little behind, but still, I really like that.  I mean, I like a little bit of challenge each other, and especially the golf course is tough, much better game because mentally strong, so I like that, so tomorrow just do my best.

Q.:  You talked before that you wanted to be more aggressive tomorrow.
SE RI PAK:  Right.

Q.:  Can you talk more about that, I mean, your game plan tomorrow.
SE RI PAK:  I don't think I am going to change game plan tomorrow, I have such a great plan for three days already, so it's going to be same routine, and I don't think it's going to be changing, but I don't want to play just sort of safe, you know, just go out there and make as many birdies as I am doing, and make galleries have some fun out there and just play well.

Q.:  No more questions?  Se Ri, let's do your score card, please. 
SE RI PAK:  Okay.  First birdie, number 2, I hit my 8-iron and then just for half feet to the cup, so I make birdie. 
Number 5, I used my 7-iron on the tee, and then just around 8 feet, 8 to 7 feet, make birdie. 
Number 9, I use driver on the tee, 3-wood on the second shot and on the green, and then there was like 20  -- around 20 feet, yeah, and then make 2-putt, make birdie. 
And I think I have the first bogey of the day at 15.  I have a perfect drive, right in the middle of the fairway, and then I use my gap wedge, and just kind of too much thinking, I guess, on that shot, so I was a little short and then I didn't  -- I just didn't know what club to use.  I think greens going to be fast.  I use my putter, and then just like around 10 feet short, so I make  -- I just missed the putt, so I made bogey. 
Number 16, used a 3-wood on the tee and 3-wood on second shot, and then that's about 25 feet downhill, and then I make there two putt, so I make birdie.  Pretty simple.





End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT