LPGA LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY J GOLF
April 16, 2014
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   I'd like to welcome in one of our three leaders here at the first round at the Lotte Championship, Se Ri Pak.   4‑under, 68, very impressive number out there today, maybe not any other week or any other day, but talk about conditions today and how you ended up getting through this round.   
SE RI PAK:   Well, first of all, it was really windy out there, a lot windier than last year.   We don't have this wind before, but it's just stronger and stronger and never did slow down.   I mean, really hard to choose a club to every hole.   Off the tee, off the fairway, on the green, all day just have so much focus on the wind because just being really hard wind to adjust it.   
Just out there, trying to keep the same tempo and trying to get relaxed out there as I could.   I mean, there is nothing I can do about the wind.   
I guess that makes my game consistent and my putting actually a couple of putts really nicely fall in and then ended up slowly (inaudible) so I'm glad to finish, yes, definitely.  
   
 Q.   Well, great front nine, two birdies on the front and a birdie after the turn.   Let's talk about the eagle on 5.   
SE RI PAK:   No. 5 is a par‑5.   It's really strong downwind, I had a really good drive.   I had a 5‑iron.   Of course, not the No. 5 iron, but still strong wind, so I need to hit it like short and hopefully get it close to the green, I can chip close to make birdie.   I didn't make the second shot too, a little off the green to the right.   It was about, let's say, a couple of yards off to the right, so I chip a 59‑degree, my sand wedge, and landed it short of the pin and hopefully on the green and easy birdie.   
It was pretty good, perfect landing and the speed is perfect and it went in the hole.   So that was a really surprise, good bonus for me.   
   
 Q.   You have been playing very solid golf the past two events, Top 6 finishes.   How much influence did your play at Kraft two weeks ago carry on in here?   Was that momentum that was carried over from the major?  
SE RI PAK:   Definitely.   Actually starting this year, I play a lot more consistency.   I guess I just find a lot better tempo in my swing.   
And the last couple of weeks my dad is with me.   Obviously, he went back last week.   But he was here and he helped my first coach, but he knew better than anybody.   Of course, I have my own swing coach, too, we work together.   My dad is giving a lot more simple thought at the golf course and he know me better than anybody.   So he give me a little bit of tips, and that gave me a lot of change in my mind.   
And just more relaxed out there and just helped me out.   Then the biggest part is I change my grip style, which is right now left hand low, crosshand, and more bigger grip.   Actually he just‑‑ my dad‑‑ I go to the pro shop and change the grip.   That's my(indiscernible), but yeah.   
I think that most of the last few years have been giving little time for my putting, but the last couple of weeks have more consistency.   I feel great and I make some more putts that I'm supposed to make, so that's giving more momentum as we walk to the next hole.   That helps a lot.   
That's all I have right now, it's more comfort with the golf course and hitting a lot more better, like more great tempo, my putting is more solid.   I guess overall my game has gotten together to make it score well.  
   
 Q.   When did you make the change to the crosshand?   When was that?  
SE RI PAK:   From Kia.   Starting at the Kia finish.   
   
 Q.   Your dad was the one that brought that up and said maybe change it up and it worked?  
SE RI PAK:   I did use my crosshand.   I was early in my season, '98 to about 2003 or so, and then I am going back to the normal grip, and now I just get back to the crosshand.  
   
 Q.   I know that it's just the first round and I know that it's been like this before, but there must be a certain amount of national pride in so many people from your country dominating this leaderboard today?  
SE RI PAK:   I mean, you know, last many years, Korean players were consistent in the top, so not surprising, everybody knows about it.   And of course we had already win this year.   Normally my country win already a couple of events.   
Not only our country, but you can see all Asian players come from all over.   They are young, too.   Just things change in the LPGA now.   I mean, not only Korean, not only Asian, but I think more from international, and the age is going a lot more younger, and there is more talent and they are in better shape and they play well.   
So it's really good to see it happen.   And to see it more public and that people know that is really different than old days, actually.   More fun to watch and more better games, actually, so that's really great for the LPGA.   I mean, I like to see it happening, too.   
   
 Q.   How did that bogey happen?   
SE RI PAK:   It was on the green, but today's green was really hard, on the top left, and I was the short side right.   I thought I hitit ‑‑ the green is slow, I got down there, I wanted to hit it firm, but I did really hard.   
Then I find about‑‑ I think about 11, 12 feet behind to make a 3‑putt there.   
So all was perfect except for that.   It was a 8 for me.   With that happening, all day I was swinging really well and made great up and down a couple of times.   It's happening, so that's okay with me.   
   
 Q.   Lydia Ko he said that you were the first player that she saw play when she was a little girl and it inspired her.   Comment a little bit on Lydia.   
SE RI PAK:   I played with her not last year, two years ago at Swinging Skirts.   This is (indiscernible) LPGA event.   That was the first week of December.   
So I heard about her, but I never did get to actually play with her.   I played with her thatthird round or second round together, and she was only 15, 16.   
It really is fun to watch her play.   Her age, I mean, she knew what's going on.   She had her game, actually.   Sometimes age come out professional, play with the pro, it's good thing, bad thing, but they are learning.   As soon as I play with her, I realize‑‑ it really surprised me how good she is at her age.   I mean, she knew how to play the game.   She knew her game and it just really controlled really well, too.   So I knew she was going to be really, really good.   I'm still sure she will be one of the best players there is.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT