MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY AIG
June 7, 2002
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.  Thank you for coming in, Se  Ri.
SE RI PAK:  You are welcome.

Q.  Give us some comments on how you feel being 1 under.  Is that a good score?
SE RI PAK:  Of course it's a good score.  Pretty much a long day for me today.  It was tough out there.  I mean, it's pretty hard to make even par, you know, not going to think about make any birdie there, just try not to miss the fairway, not to miss the greens, but there is hardest one  -- I never even thought about it, but it was hard for this golf course.  Greens get a little bit softer than first round because no rain, but still firm, firm and fast, and the greens, no chance up and down. 
Otherwise, I pretty much hung in there today, and I was really happy to finish and make a red number, so I pretty much could think about it.

Q.  How was the wind out there, Se  Ri?
SE RI PAK:  It was a little bit stronger first few holes, and then after that actually not too bad.  I mean, the way golf course right now, I don't think winds never even bother at all, so it was  -- I mean, it's a little bit bother first few holes, and otherwise it pretty much come down, different this morning, but not too bad, but still tough out there.

Q.  Did the course play longer today?
SE RI PAK:  It is longer today, yes, because of the wet, we didn't have really as much as before, a little longer, but still firm.

Q.  Do you feel fortunate to have played in the afternoon and the morning yesterday just because of the weather conditions?  It seemed like it was a little bit better out there this afternoon than it was earlier today.
SE RI PAK:  Maybe a little bit better this afternoon as opposed to this morning, but, I mean, doesn't bother at all for me.  Either way, in the morning you just have to take it; if not, I mean, you don't have any choice so I really don't even care much, just go out there, just play.

Q.  How lucky was it for you to play, though, yesterday morning and not have to come back this morning and finish and play another round?  How did that affect you?
SE RI PAK:  Well, I do it a couple weeks ago.  A couple weeks ago I just take two days in a row because not to finish 18, actually wake up three days have to be 7:30 on the golf course, so just I think pretty much like you better take it.  If you don't have to do that, wasn't much, but was a little better.  Especially this weekend was pretty important for everyone here, so I was pretty lucky I played yesterday morning and then I shoot pretty good today, so I was happy.

Q.  Were you surprised that  -- I think there has only been about four or five people who shot under par today.  Does that surprise you at all, or because of the conditions, is that not so surprising?
SE RI PAK:  I think it's not the surprise.  We knew because we already practice on Tuesday and play on Wednesday again, we knew that it's going to be easier at all, greens get really firm, you don't have a chance to stop your ball on the green, and around the green or fairway and the rough you can't even find your golf ball.  Everybody expect it's going to be tough this week so it's not surprise at all.  Amazing some players get pretty good score, too, so, I mean, I don't have any idea for that this weekend.

Q.  Is it hard to stay patient out there when the conditions are so tough?
SE RI PAK:  It is, it's difficult.  It's, like, out of control sometimes.  I mean, you miss the fairway, you miss the green, first bogey is okay, okay, and then second bogey you hit it pretty good, still you miss the green or miss the fairway, and then getting tough and tough, you give yourself a lot of pressure on it, and then conditions get always harder, so it's pretty tough to handle there, too, just really is hard to control yourself out there, too, it's not easy at all.

Q.  Do you still have memories of  '99 and do you still draw off those memories from the way you played here the year you won?
SE RI PAK:  '98? 

Q.  '98.
SE RI PAK:  Yes.  I am always excited about it, to play this golf course.  (Inaudible) I remember all this hole I was that par and a great shot and all the smiles, I mean, it's pretty good still. 

Q.  Se  Ri, can we do your score card, please.
SE RI PAK:  I don't know I can remember this all.  Okay.  I make first birdie number 3.  I use  8-iron, and then 12 feet, 15 feet, I think, to make birdie. 
And number 9 I have, I think, around 40 yards, but I  -- well, basically used my sand wedge, and then only just 7 feet to make birdie. 
My first bogey at number 12, I use my 8-iron on the second shot and a little bit pulled in the left and I was in between first cut and a little bit of rough.  I use my putter but I missed it, missed past  -- I think past like 5 feet, I missed it to make a bogey. 
Number 16, I had another birdie.  I used my 7-wood on the green, and then it was like 20  -- I think 23, 22 feet, and I passed like 4 feet and make it, birdie. 
Number 17, I used my 9-iron to tee, it was the wrong club, I think -- it was short -- and then I was chip on the green, was short again, like 8, 9 feet, I missed that to make bogey; two bogeys, three birdies, I think. 

Q.  Any more questions?  Okay.  Se  Ri, thanks.
SE RI PAK:  Thank you. 




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT