WENDY'S CHAMPIONSHIP FOR CHILDREN
August 9, 2001
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  We asked Annika about all the great players that made it over for this tournament, especially given the fact you were overseas last week.  It says a lot about this tournament.  Can you talk about that, how it's going?

SE RI PAK:  I mean, I was a little tired.  After Sunday, you're kind of mentally tired.  Especially different golf there, the weather's different.  But I just really love to play around in Ohio.  Somehow really comfortable.  I play well and at the same time now it feels great to play.  Always pretty much I'm ready for every week, the tournament.  I really have a lot of confidence.  I just don't want to stop (inaudible) before it's done.  I just decided to play this week.  Also helping me to play much better.  That's what I'm here for. 


Q.  Your confidence has to be at an all-time high.  You won four tournaments.  Talk a little about your self-confidence.

SE RI PAK:  Well, I mean, starting season this year, first in January, already I feels great, better than last three years.  I always really work hard for my swing and my game, to better than, you know, before.  I get my first win for the year, I won first time.  As soon as I won, I feel like great, more than any years.  At that time I feels confidence.  At the same time every week looks really great.  Now as soon as I get on the golf course, I feel like, you know, just happy to play, just really fun.  I mean, before, two or three years  -- last three years, I pretty much push myself a lot, so I didn't much have fun.  I really know that I want to play really good golf.  But, you know, is not easy to do that.  At the same time I think I push myself too much for last three years.  I think somehow I had a lot of hard times, especially last year, a lot of sad and mad.  I don't know what happened.  All the time is the question, Why?  I know I can play better than right now.  I just didn't know why I didn't play well.  It's kind of confusing four years.  Now just this time, year, this is what I want.  Try to go out there, have fun, enjoy it, at the same time play well.  (Can/can't?) be everything is all together.  Now in the middle I feel good or bad, still I'm happy.  I'm really happy to play.  I just play different than last few years.  That's why I have a lot of confidence.


Q.  The past few years, there's been so much focus on Annika and Karrie, who's No.  1, their rivalry.  I wonder if going into this year, if you told yourself, "I think there should be three people fighting for No.  1, I think I'm just as good as they are"? 

SE RI PAK:  Right, I mean, that's a true.  Like four years, before I came, Annika, Webb, whatever, playing good at the top.  Always kind of a little behind because I'm maybe from different country.  For some reason, Korean is not much as famous or anything.  People is not so much focus on it.  I'm kind of to myself, Why not?  I'm the only one to be there with them together for the LPGA.  I mean, that moment last three years, maybe one day, someday.  Maybe I need more time to maybe improve more than them.  Just help me to work harder and harder.  This year kind of somehow I have a great chance to be on the top with them together.  Hopefully I trying to be stay on right now focused.  I trying to be a best finish as I can. 


Q.  Do you feel that maybe in the past few years you were off to the side, not noticed that much, because of the language barrier?  Do you think now that you're learning the language better, you can tell us better what you're all about, do you think that's a reason that might be changing? 

SE RI PAK:  Maybe that was help, too.  I mean, yeah, of course, last two years actually I really did not speak much because I was kind of some reason pretty shy, just in case I have some wrong answer.  I'm still learning.  At the same time, I didn't much learn about different, you know, the way they asking the questions.  But now I'm pretty much know that, and I know I can tell everything what I think, what I feel.  Maybe that's much better to people know about me more than before.  I don't know.  I mean, still I feel like I'm not even there.  I'm trying to learn more and trying to be best as I can.  I mean, I just trying -- I need some more time to be kind of more stable, a little more better (stats?), Though.  I don't even really think about it:  "I have to be.  Why not?"  I don't want to do that.  I need more time.  Only time can tell me, you know.  Still this is my four year.  Still pretty much new for me.  It's not enough time to used to that, every single around what happen to me.  Maybe a little more time spend, I know more, I learn more, maybe one, two years later, I'm going to be up top, hopefully.


Q.  Can you talk about this golf course, about New Albany, playing here?

SE RI PAK:  I think I play last two years here.  I think I always great shape here.  Somehow they take care golf course so great.  Somehow this golf course is not easy.  Looks like wide, can shoot more low score, but not easy.  Especially for me, I didn't play well here for last two years.  But maybe this year.  I really like to play this golf course.  Kind of can even think like easily out there.  Have to try many different shots, because wide, sometimes long, sometimes water there, greens different.  So, I mean, I think it's really a good golf course. 


Q.  How much more in charge are you of the decisions in your life and in your golf than you were your rookie year?  A lot of the players talk about how you're more in charge now, picking your caddie, your coach, that you are calling the shots now, whereas before you might not have been doing that.  Is that accurate? 

SE RI PAK:  The first year really I just don't know anything.  Always my mom and dad take care of me, always the people around take care of me.  I said, "I needed that," people around get me.  Easy, you know, easy life.  After first year, I knew that I can't be always to say, "I have to get it," not like tell people to do that for favor.  I just decided after first year, "If I want to learn more fast, if I want to play much better than right now, then I need to do something for myself to be strong."  Sort of different life.  Tour every week, different hotel, fly every week and play, meet new players, whatever anyway.  I just decided, "Now I need to be as strong.  I have to take care of myself.  I have to be a good player."  I'm strong enough to take care of everything, right?  I mean, now it is just much easier for me to (lead?).  I know what to do, I know how to make a decision, I know how to take care of myself.  I know where to go, what to play.  That's what's been helping a lot for my golf game at the same time. 


Q.  A lot of people wouldn't have made those changes because you were so successful as a rookie, winning the two majors.  That seems like a risk that you were taking to change so many things when that worked for you so well. 

SE RI PAK:  I think I'm always  -- no matter, before I was young, I think, "I want to be best, the best."  Always I just remember about it.  No matter what is my job, I just want to be always No.  1.  But at the same time I knew I have to be strong for reasons.  I know I play well, I know I'm successful and everything.  How can I make people around me how to work for me, blah blah blah?  At the same time I think I need to know that.  Then after I can tell them what to do better than I tell them what I need to do.  So this  -- I think, yeah, the thing is better.  Probably my mind is much (opener?), More lighter.  That's why I think I'm much better right now than before.  That's got to be helping a lot how to make myself be strong. 


Q.  How much time have you spent learning the English language?  Who has helped with you that?

SE RI PAK:  Nobody.  I just like learning every week like this, interview, talk to player, talk to friends.  I mean, that's the way I'm learn for like last few years.  I don't have any time because every week you have a tournament, every week is traveling.  I don't have time to take lessons.  By the time I get back home, I'm tired, mentally, everything.  I don't want just to see the people at all.  I just stay home, watching TV, the practice, what I need to do.  Now just traveling every week, I talk to people, players, media.  It's going to help me a lot.


Q.  Do you learn new words every week? 

SE RI PAK:  I can't say every week.  But pretty much from like maybe one day, two weeks later, learn kind of pretty new things to make sure I'm remind it, somehow when to use, not use.  That's the way I'm practicing all the time.


Q.  Would you talk about reaching the No.  1 spot on the Money List, being No.  1 ahead of Karrie and Annika this week?

SE RI PAK:  I mean, right now is great chance.  I'm at the top.  Not much difference, me and Annika.  Three of them kind of really tight, really close.  But, you know, all the players are so great.  I can't even relax one second, I think.  I just trying to be best as I can rest of the year.  Hopefully I will be on the top still. 


Q.  Can you tell us how your relationship with Collin is different than it was than your previous caddie?  Your relationship player and caddie between the two caddies, how different is it?

SE RI PAK:  I think same, pretty much same relationship with my old caddie.  I mean, I'm not just only for thinking about he just only my caddie.  I just always thinking about he one of my friends.  Can be a bad friend, too because only caddie can help on the golf course inside of, you know, ropes.  He has to be all together, have to know each other more than just caddie and player.  That's what always I'm thinking.  I need to be trusting a lot, and he has to be trust me.  Have to be work as partners.  Has to be like more close than just for the caddie and player.  Now is one of my best friend, my good partner, good caddie, I mean all together.  Looks like more kind of a family, too. 


Q.  Are you putting conventional now?

SE RI PAK:  Now, right. 


Q.  Is there any explanation for your success in Ohio?  You won Toledo, Youngstown. 

SE RI PAK:  I don't know.  Some reason I think I start winning these tournaments in Ohio, and after that feels better because I was won before.  Then when I come back, it feels great because I knew I play well here.  Mentally, just make myself just relax in here.  That's what help me a lot this week, being in Ohio, I guess, giving myself like more confidence because I know it, I know I can do that.  I have a great success in this city.  That's give me a lot of helping, I guess.


Q.  You said you were tired Sunday after completing the British Open.  You obviously had a long flight back over here.  How do you feel now?  Do you feel capable of challenging for the championship this year?

SE RI PAK:  Yes.  I mean, especially in the last week, it's totally different golf game.  It make it spin a lot, close to the pin, can be go for the green, can just do everything, right?  In England, you never happen.  You can go for the green.  You have to think how much before the edge.  You have to land it 20 yards before the green, really good bounce, wind this way, different conditions, hard rough.  Everything is like so new.  I never play like the kind of golf before.  But I know that that last week, pretty good chance to learn different golf game at the same time.  I mean, golf game cannot always be the same thing.  Now just like totally different game.  I know how to play.  I know how to make this kind of shot.  I mean, last two weeks we play different golf.


Q.  This week you just hit fairways, play to the flags, that's it?

SE RI PAK:  No.  Can be some different game mentally, routine I guess.  I know play much better than England probably.  I know how to play, I know how to make a spin.  You know, the golf is always (silly?).  Best thing is I have to control how to play, make myself much easier on the outside.  Just kind of using for like my brain, I guess.


Q.  Lorie Kane was in here yesterday and spoke about playing with you in Korea, the level of fame you have in Korea.  You want to be No.  1 on the LPGA Tour.  Do you ever want to get as famous in this country as you are in Korea or do you enjoy your privacy so that you would rather have it be so you would not be as famous here as you are in Korea? 

SE RI PAK:  I love to being famous.  Of course, not in the US.  I want to be big, huge, great success whole in the world.  I mean, that's my goal.  I just want to be best in the best.  To be always famous people, fans, huge crowds, I mean, I love that.  So hopefully I want to be someday. 


Q.  All the attention you get in Korea is not a bother, not a burden?

SE RI PAK:  No.  I really like it, yeah (laughter). 


Q.  Is it hard having the fame in your homeland, then coming here and not having quite the attention?  Is that hard?

SE RI PAK:  No.  Of course, every country is different.  Especially my country, people has never, ever happen before, especially in golf, especially probably much in sports, I guess.  I was there.  Of course, makes me really big surprise.  I never expected before like that.  But somehow, I mean, now just I have to handle.  Everybody know, then I knew it.  At the same time I come back here, was different, like more (inaudible) fans.  I'm from a different country.  I'm pretty much used to.  Not a bother at all. 


Q.  Who gets more attention, you in Korea or Tiger in the United States?

SE RI PAK:  I think it's pretty close, I guess, I bet.  I think Tiger is bigger in US.  I think I'm biggest in Korea.  Probably very tight. 


Q.  Are you as big there as he is here or are you bigger?

SE RI PAK:  Well, I think I was bigger than now Tiger in US.  It's different.  Huge, many great successful sports player.  But in my country, it's never, ever history happen like before.  Everybody just kind of thinking different than right now here.  So probably I'm a little much bigger than that.


Q.  In Korea, you're saying you're about the only sports success story on the level of Tiger?

SE RI PAK:  Yes, because I never have happen for this, especially in golf, especially in the woman.  It's kind of pretty new for my country


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT