U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
May 31, 2001
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SE RI PAK: Yes, I am, actually mentally, really tired.  Always USGA -- it's not easy to make it.  So starting at 8:00 o'clock, first tee through 18, my mind, actually, mentally couldn't rest at all.  I had to think which way to land to make it much easier the second shot.  And I didn't want to have any trouble at all.  I kept thinking and talking and make myself easy to play today all day.  It was pretty difficult all day.  It was a hard time.

SE RI PAK: Yes.  I mean, the way I'm hitting today, I really liked that.  And this golf course, it's pretty hard to make lots of birdies, it's pretty hard to make, especially with the greens getting firmer.  I  really am happy about today's round.

Q.  Se Ri, are we looking at a Se Ri Pak who's back in the form she was like at Black Wolf Run? Because I know you have worked extremely hard for the last couple of years.

SE RI PAK: Yes, I really do.  I mean, first year for me, well, I can't even remember everything, because everything was pretty new to me.  But after that I improved my golf game.  And I knew that.  And after I won the U.S. Open gave myself a lot of confidence about myself, my golf game and even Tour. So I knew that and I was just trying as hard as I can in practice and get the top player.  So last three years I got a pretty good experience for me to be right now in the standing with Annika and Webb.  Those are all great players.  So I really -- well, I'm getting confidence every year, better than a few years ago.  I'm in pretty good shape.  And I really like the way I am right now.

SE RI PAK: Well, actually, the first year, 1998, I really have a big change.  It's like mentally, and so many people and everything is so different, my living.  And after that, well, actually, first was  pretty big improved for my golf game.  I mean, that year for me as a rookie, as like an amateur, pretty much.  And I don't know much about here and golf game and LPGA Tour.  But after that happened, just everything so quickly, had to learn fast, and my game is learning fast, and just everything is I have a lot of confidence, everything.  And so I'm touring now, I just don't know, every year, no matter what I get, a lot of confidence of everything.  And right now just much happier.  I really enjoyed my golf game and my life.  Over the last three years I really had pushed myself too much about play good, you have to play good.  I want to play good.  And I worked harder and harder and harder.  I knew that last year was work as hard as I can.  But it doesn't come everything -- to everything come together.  And I let it go.  And now everything trying to enjoy about living and about my golf game and about the Tour.  So right now everything is perfect.  I'm doing really well this year.

Q.  Following up on that, you're talking about improvements in your golf game.  Physically how is your golf game different?  What changes have you made since you won at the Women's Open to now, putt, driving the ball, any of those elements of the game? 

SE RI PAK: I think just all together.  I mean, no matter what I was on the golf course and standing in the tee box.  And the way I pick some aim to play good.  The place perfect to land it.  Before I'm not sure.  I pick something, I know always the same thing, same routine and everything.  But I'm just not sure when I set up and everything, before I hit.  Even after I hit I still can't trust it.  But now after that and to now every year is I can trust myself and trust in the golf course.  And right now no matter what in the golf course, no matter what, I pick the golf club, putter, everything, it's pretty much confidence.  So everything has got to be all together and make myself and everything pretty easier to play golf.

SE RI PAK: I am actually -- well, everybody knows already I got my new coach since last year, September.  And the same swing, same style, not much different to change.  But now I kind of a little bit more short swing, but it's more powerful.  A little bit more shorter.  And the club to ball, the impact is pretty speed.  And everything is going to be pretty consistently to land it all my distance, even driver and my irons, short games, everything.  So everything  got to be pretty much easier going on.

Q.  We've seen a number of things that indicate that the international players, if you will, won 13 out of 15 tournaments this year.  They've won all but one of the recent Women's Opens.  Canadians and Korean are at the top of the leaderboard right now.  What do you think is behind this?  Clearly seems to be a trend.

SE RI PAK: Well, actually, I just cannot exactly give the answer for this.  But I think now much younger players in Tour every year.  And every year -- younger players get learning really faster, quickly, even through the same thing as I do.  So all the international players are going to be getting I think under 25, I think.  So everybody is pretty young. Everybody learning.  So somehow they can -- traveling -- it's not used to it.  But I think everybody enjoyed it.  And they really want to play well, as everybody here.  And I think they knew that kind of a little different game as the way they play in the country. That's why I think it makes us a little bit more strong.  To be sure we have to be mentally, to make sure we have to be strong enough to play in the Tour. So this way I think all international or -- I think international, everybody is playing better right now, I think. 

Q.  The way the course is playing, the length and so forth, and with your first round as 1 under, how do you think this course is going to play for the rest of the field and what do you think under par it's going to take to win the U.S. Open?

SE RI PAK: I think I heard that Annika won 1995, 1996 that time, 8-under?  I think that's kind of pretty close, I think.  This golf course is really set out really, really difficult, every hole.  We can't relax for one second.  Every green is going to be getting firmer and the green is really fast.  And around the green is a lot of trouble.  And we miss a fairway, that make a lot of hard time to be up-and-down.  So going to be just -- I don't think it's going to be easy to play well and the one that gets the trophy this week.  So probably the last few years ago, when Annika scored, I think going to be the best.  And then I think everybody -- they try already I think -- the best thing is I think how to play the golf course much easier, to get more smarter, to get a trophy, I think.

SE RI PAK: Yes, I am.  Yes.  I really work hard for always this week.  I really -- especially this week is a really, really strong field and everybody is actually mentally strong.  They want to get ready for this week.  So I knew that already a few weeks ago I trying to make sure the way -- no matter whether I miss or not, trying to be patient.  And I knew that it's not going to be easier, so just make sure mentally everything, physically, golf, my game, everything has to be strong.  So I'm pretty much get ready.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT