U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2000
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SE RI PAK: Actually, I like the golf course. You know, looks like three or two years
ago, the golf course right there. This is so nice golf course, but kind of pretty much
similar than that golf course, and I just think about 1998, you know, I played a -- so
difficult golf course, and we had a tough run, everything. Just kind of kept thinking
about that. Then this golf course is very nice. You know, still like a very difficult,
with the rough, very long. The fairways are bouncing a lot and not much wide; it's narrow.
I cannot hit much driver here, and green is so huge, at the same time, so I think -- I
didn't make any 3-putts this week, I think that was a great score, I guess. 

Q. Se Ri, there are 10 South Koreans in the field this week. Can you explain how South
Korea became such a place where a lot of women golfers are coming from right now? 

SE RI PAK: Actually, I'm not sure. You know, I didn't know how much players -- right
now. I haven't really seen much this week, but I heard pretty much -- nine players, yeah,
things like that. I think now people want to go try. Before I came over here, at that
time, everybody is thinking, you know, there's no way, like too far away and different
culture. Everything is different, living, everything. Maybe they never thought about it.
But after I came over and played so well, and at the same time last year, with the other
Korean players playing well, everybody looks like maybe they want to try here, and maybe
they want to know about more golf and they want to be like more better players. That's why
they came over here a lot and play.

Q. When you were growing up, how big was golf in South Korea? 

SE RI PAK: It's not that big as here. Maybe not big in Japan, either, I guess, but
after doing so well, golf is huge. It looks like every kid, they play golf right now and
they are starting at young age right now. So many things, you know, different than three
years ago. 

Q. When you were growing up, did you have much opportunity to play the actual courses?
We always hear it's very tough to get on courses in South Korea. When you were 11, 12
years old, did you have an opportunity to play?

SE RI PAK: It is tough. We don't have that much golf course than here, so like all
different. Like a few of them -- and all the way -- Seoul, take four-hour drive and
totally different golf course, not like close all the time. At the same time, it's very
high price, too, the green fees. And the golf course all the time is full, because amateur
plays somehow and the members. Other times, pretty much -- our country has a lot of
private golf course. This way, it's more difficult to play for the young kids. Other
people, they play outside and practice, things like that. Now I think so many things
different, probably some players, I think they play more than before. 

Q. After you won the Open, you had a lot of publicized tiredness, burnout. How did you
get through that, or are you through with it? 

SE RI PAK: Actually, after I won the U.S. Open, I -- everything changed. I have to --
make practice, make the schedule, after 1998, is my rookie year, so I didn't know so much
about many things going on. I just keep, okay, say, yes, yes and everything is -- doing
everything for all of them. But after 1998, I learned so many things, including this
tournament, I just learn a lot about my game, and I know what to do and I know what I have
to do. And after first year I finished, I knew that I have to take care of myself more
than anything. You know, nobody can take care of myself. So, I know that if I take care of
myself and if I more focus on my game, the first year, so many things that I cannot even
focus on my game -- so many things. After that, I have to go there, there, there. I just
have to keep thinking about that -- that I can't even focus on the tournament. But now, so
many things are coming up just so quickly. This way, I think it's more, you know, more
control in myself. I know I can control myself, and at the same time I learn so many --
things at the same time in my golf game, either. This is my third year, and after first
year, I think I just -- through now, I mean, it's a lot -- everything is a lot better than
before, and more -- actually, more fun. That's when I won like that, I want to be like
that; enjoy the golf course outside the tournament and have some fun, exciting time and I
just want to enjoy it. 

Q. As an Open champion, how do you feel about this tournament in women's golf going up
against the British Open this week? 

SE RI PAK: Actually, there's only one time I play the British Open.

Q. No, I'm talking about the Men's British Open. That's this week, too. 

SE RI PAK: I think all the time -- whole time LPGA and PGA is between -- PGA is more
stronger, because a lot of great players and a lot of make great shot and is longer. U.S.
Open is different from other tournaments. It's like everybody knows, has to be strong this
week. At the same time, everybody want to see great players around here, especially U.S.
Open is probably biggest tournament in the world, I guess, golf tournament. I think, you
know, it doesn't matter -- it doesn't matter PGA and LPGA, PGA and U.S. Open the same
week, I don't think it's going to be much different, I guess. Of course, men is great, but
LPGA at the same time, strong players, everybody is so great. 

Q. I was thinking more along the lines of the projection of this tournament, when it's
up against such an enormous event as the British Open? Will it be in the background? 

SE RI PAK: Maybe. But I don't think it's going to -- some people are thinking, I guess,
because this is biggest tournament in Women's, the Open. And this golf course is great.
And the top players, they get ready for these big tournaments. I think many things happen
this week, I guess. It's more fun to watch the U.S. Open, I guess. 

Q. What's it like for you now when you go back to South Korea? When you went back after
the first time in 1998, have things calmed down a little bit for you? 

SE RI PAK: A lot better. Much better than first year. Of course, first year, in my
country has never ever happened before. That's why they want to see. They want to know
more, so many things, just keep pushing me. Now, so many -- it's two years passed already
and -- because everybody is like better. They know things right now what happened around
the golf course, golf etiquette and everything. They learn so many things than last few
years ago. 

Q. When you're there, though, can you go out? When you go out to dinner? Can you go out
without being bothered or are people coming up to you all the time?

SE RI PAK: They know me. They just want to say hi to me and other times they want an
autograph, take a picture, because they cannot just pass away. They know and they are just
really happy to see me, so I just have to kind of say, hi, and sometimes talking longer.
But it's okay. It's fine. 

Q. I just wanted to ask how it was playing with Nancy Lopez today, and was she somebody
-- were you able to follow her exploits when you were growing up in Korea? Was she
somebody you kind of looked up to? 

SE RI PAK: Now I play a lot with Nancy every week. We played, me and Lorie Kane and
Nancy together played a little game together, and I feels like very, very -- you know,
just very comfortable outside with Nancy, because she -- she's kind of -- she helps me a
lot. I was -- in rookie years, first year, she knew it was not that easy and she told me
how to control it, you know, and makes me very comfortable inside my mind and just keep
telling me what to do, things like that is going to happen like this. And then, you know
all the times that she said and she helped me a lot, still, I probably heard it. Sometimes
she just tell me somehow, a little swing different, and she tell me what to do. Maybe kind
of fix me a little bit. And, you know, just, I can't -- if I see her, it feels like --
whether she tell me or not, I just feel like that, what to do. I really want to be like
her because she was so great, personality, and everything she handled so good, so well.
And so I think I just want to watch her. Even though the Koreans, it's a little different,
but she knew more than I do, if something happen. She see everything more than I do; so
all the time I play with her or I see her, it feels like I want to stay and talk to her
about some problem. So she helped a lot in my golf game, too.

SE RI PAK: Not much. I didn't see her much, because all of the times, men's tournament
on TV, but sometimes I saw. I saw her, I really -- I guess before I came over here in USA,
I saw her in magazine, TV some, a little bit, and I saw Nancy Lopez. I didn't know her
that long, but she's really great person. 

SE RI PAK: I still have same dog. 

SE RI PAK: Yeah. 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT