PAGENET CHAMPIONSHIP
November 14, 1999
Se Ri Pak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Can you go over your card first?
 
 SE RI PAK: Okay. I made 1st hole for bogey. I drive it in the right side, and right
behind the tree, my ball is in -- tree is bothering me, so I hit 8-iron. Hit the tree,
maybe 30 yards short, to the pin. So I use my 60-degree and chip to almost 10 feet -- I
think almost 10 feet over the pin; 2-putt, bogey. My second bogey is par 5, on No. 5. I
hit my driver another -- on right side. So bunker, bunker -- then I hit 3-iron like --
tree is like 40 yards, I think -- no tree. I think it's not bothering me because I hit the
3-iron to make it a little lower. I hit it -- actually, perfectly, I hit the tree, and
come back; so I hit (inaudible) for third shot and six feet on fourth shot and another 10
feet is par. But I miss the putt so I made bogey, 2-putt. No. 7 is my 8-iron on the tee.
That's 20 feet; I make the birdie. No. 9, is my A-wedge for third shot, 17 feet for
birdie. No. 10 is my 3-ironshot into the green, maybe 20 feet to have a chance, but I
missed it, 2-putt for birdie. Then No. 15 is another birdie, par 5. I use my 5-wood. I
didn't hit it great, anyway, from the green, 25 feet, I think, 2-putt, birdie. That's it.  
 
Q. And the playoff hole?
 
 SE RI PAK: Playoff, I hit driver. I didn't hit it good, a little right. Right-hand side
of the tree a little bit hanging -- the tree was still bothering me. So I was 138 left --
138 to the pin, so I use my 8-iron, three-quarter shot; I make the lowball, and hit it
like a little short to the pin. Just want to hold. What I do on 18 is perfectly what I
want to do. I made what, five feet? I may be the putt and I won.  
 
Q. Considering where your tee shot was on the playoff on 18, would you have happy with
a par at that point, to have such a tough approach shot? When you saw where your drive
landed, would you have been happy with a par?
 
 SE RI PAK: Yeah, I was happy to do that. Driver, tree is bothering me, it's not an easy
shot. Green is pretty hard, and, you know, almost like shadow, farther, too. So pretty
good. Maybe I miss the putt, I'm still happy, I think, but I got a great chance for a
birdie. 
 
Q. What did you think when you saw Laura's chip roll --
 
 SE RI PAK: I thought she make that. I thought she made it. I thought the ball is into
the hole. I think, "Oh, great." She's pretty good that kind of shot, I think. I
think going to another playoff, another hole. Short is what she made, and then I still
have a chance. 
 
Q. Was there any doubt in your mind you were going to make that putt?
 
 SE RI PAK: I didn't think anything. Even the playoff, when we move to 18 tee, just
feels like, just exciting; it's fun. It's fun city, fun golf course, fun tournament, and
especially playoff, it's exciting. So everything is pretty much fun for me this week. I
just -- I don't know why. I just feel whole week is so fun, exciting. Just happy. Then I
hit a driver and everything is fun, tournament, even though I lost, I do my best anyway,
all day, all week. Just having fun. 
 
Q. Do you like playoffs, Se Ri?
 
 SE RI PAK: Oh, yeah. (Laughter). I have a chance, so I like that. 
 
Q. You like one-hole playoffs or 20-hole playoffs?
 
 SE RI PAK: 20 is too much.  
 
Q. There was conversation earlier about how Se Ri has grown up, as a player and as a
person.
 
 SE RI PAK: Yeah. It's true.  
 
Q. Are you a better player now?
 
 SE RI PAK: I guess, yeah. I think. Last year, I didn't even know -- when I'm hitting
shot, I don't know where my ball goal goes. I just cannot trust that much. This year,
hitting every shot, every hole, I can trust, you know, I have more confidence, I trust
myself. I just want to hit when what I want to hit; feels great. And I learn many things
from last year, the game. Learning more. And people I see more, I do by myself more. It's
truth, growing, more good.  
 
Q. The way you finished this year, are you excited for next year to start or do you
need a break?
 
 SE RI PAK: I need some break before the season start next year this time. Last year, I
don't have any time. Right after I finish season, it's still so many things to do have to
do, and I really don't have any time for me. You know, just never -- never rest, I think.
But this year, off-season, I just want to go somewhere. Nobody knows. I just want to
disappear somehow.  
 
Q. Where do you think you'll disappear?
 
 SE RI PAK: I don't know. That's why I say, nobody knows. I don't want to tell.
(Laughter). Yeah, I just want to have some of my time. Just whole year, almost 11 months,
non-stop. And I have one month to play and rest, to make sure I take some time for myself,
and relax, have fun and play golf.  
 
Q. What do you do for fun when you're not playing golf?
 
 SE RI PAK: Playing just for fun, or, I don't know, I want to go -- I just want to do
some fun thing. I want to go with my new friends on trip or some party every night
(laughter), or to sleep all day, or, you know, non-stop eating; make sure it's not fat
that much. Yeah, something else.  
 
Q. What does it mean to you, to go wire-to-wire against this great of a field? Does
that make it even better to win?
 
 SE RI PAK: Yeah, I mean, first, second round, leading and after that, that's why it
feels like every first round I'm leading, it feels like more better play. I feel more
comfortable on golf course, no matter if I play practice or with practice putt or good go
out shoot 6-under, 8-under. It feels like -- second is automatic comfortable, good tempo.
Somehow if I miss shot, it feels like, you know, I can find it easily, quickly. That's why
this week first two times I had great round; yesterday I got a little bit -- some hard
times. Today especially, front nine, I had bad times, too, non-stop driving make me work.
But even though I make bogey, with so many holes to go, it's okay just play, make the
putt, and every hole I finish, hope every hole I finish is good. Birdie, I get out of that
hole -- next year I come back, nobody see that, not anymore, right. Every hole, finished,
done. 2nd hole, done. 3rd, done. That way it's good to play I think. Yeah, good finish
today. 
 
Q. What person has been most helpful to you over your life in golf that you think has
done you the most good who do you look to now?
 
 SE RI PAK: I want to be -- like men TOUR, PGA, before I even came here, before I
started golf, I want to be Nick Faldo, because he has great swing, right; and I want to be
Greg Norman because he is so strong player; and I want to be Nancy Lopez because of her
personality. Everything is perfect if I'm like all of that. I'm still trying to play
strong and I want to have good personality. I want people to think about me as not all the
time player, person.  
 
Q. Do you have a personal teacher now?
 
 SE RI PAK: No. I mean, I have my dad or my mom, but otherwise, nope.  
 
Q. On 18 in regulation, did you miss-hit the shot, because you didn't get it all the
way back to the hole and it looked like you maybe cut it a little heavy, when you ended
about 25 feet or so?
 
 SE RI PAK: No, I think that time, I think, all day I miss -- I think it's kind of
tempo. I mean, before the playoff, that hole, 18, second shot is great drive. It's perfect
what I wanted to hit there. Then I think that time -- one thing is my tempo a little
slower, fast, slow, good tempo. Last hole second shot is slow for me. That's why mine goes
to the right side and short. The greens I knew is firm; so it's okay to hit it short, but
at that time, hit it short, stop quick. It was about 25 feet, almost 30 feet, I think.  
 
Q. Did you know your 8-iron on the playoff hole was perfect?
 
 SE RI PAK: I feel pretty confident that hole. I got 8-iron that time. My caddie tells
me that 138 -- usually, I hit 140 9-iron, but at the time I know -- hit it a little lower,
make sure hit it -- hit the green and roll it up to the pin. Then I tell my caddie that I
have to lighten up for me, make sure it's okay. So I'm aiming left side of pin. Green is
-- putt is left-to-right, and so I pretty much -- needed three-quarter shot. So I line up,
hit it perfect. I trust myself to hit it perfectly. You know , I didn't know I hit it
perfect, but I didn't know how much it goes, you know.  
 
Q. What did you say to Lorie Kane at the end? Was that a tough situation?
 
 SE RI PAK: No, she just -- me and her still on the golf course. We just play, fun,
close to pin for five dollars. Can't play like that, you know. But she has great chance,
but she's not have good luck, bad bounce, things like that. And last on 18, I know she's
not happy, and I'm not happy, too. She almost gets there, but she always has bad luck, and
I -- she just tell me, "Good round." And I said -- I didn't say anything. Just
somehow I'm not that happy. And then we just say that -- I mean, I say that to her, just,
you know second shot, "Put it in the hole." She said "Okay, okay." I
said "Okay, next hole." And then before she said -- we just teeing up together.
Hitting driver for her and me, almost like 30 yards I'm more longer than her. That's what
we talk before. We start in the tee box, 1st hole, we say, close to the pin five, make the
putt five, then keep the fairway, five. And I said "Long drive, five." She's,
no, no, not long drive. On 18 hole she said to me that I'm not longer than her. She said,
"lucky I didn't say that one yard is five dollars"; if each yard is five
dollars, she just lost a lot of money. She's joking on the golf course. I know her. She's
not happy. I don't know, after we finished, then I just make the score card and I know
she's crying, you know, so I just so feel bad. And somehow in the playoff, I feel more
strong because my friend, she's not play good, my best friend, anyway; so I just feel like
if I win, maybe, you know, just more strong because for her. So I meet her later on.  
 
Q. Karrie won the Vare Trophy with a 69.43. Do you think that can be beaten? That's the
low average?
 
 SE RI PAK: It's not going to be easy. That's almost like 11 months nonstop. That's
great, I think. I don't know that can be more lower than that. But actually, 11 months is
so, so difficult. Last year is Annika, 69.99? That is great, anyway.  
 
Q. Are you going to play anymore until January?
 
 SE RI PAK: I've got one more with JcPenney's but otherwise, done.  
 
Q. Who are you playing with?
 
 SE RI PAK: Paul Azinger, I think.  
 
Q. Did you think two years ago when you were a rookie out here that you have eight wins
now? After two years, did you think that was possible?
 
 SE RI PAK: Not impossible; possible. It feels like if I win two times a year, that must
be good, too. First year is so good time, so good season: Two majors, two tournaments. But
this year, if I won one or two, that's good enough. But I won four times again; so that is
kind of -- I cannot believe sometimes.  
 
Q. How many next year?
 
 SE RI PAK: Pretty good for four like that again. Laughter. Every year, four times win
is pretty good, you know. (Laughter). I think I'm trying next year, too. I try to win two
times and I get plus two -- next year, if I can win four times great. If not, two, and
maybe I can finish in the Top-10 more of the time.  
 
Q. Were you getting impatient at times last year?
 
 SE RI PAK: Did I say that?  
 
Q. That's what Tree said. You said "Why can't I win?" Not "Why can't I
make a cut," but "Why can't I win? "
 
 SE RI PAK: Oh, yeah, I did, too. Oh, now I know. Because other time feels like I can do
that. It feels like pretty close. I don't know why, just pretty close to get there, but
just one hole or one day. You know, one shot play. That time I tell Tree like that, why
not, I work hard play hard but not getting chances -- but that is only that time -- means
I have to learn more. That's why I got my mind telling me I can do that, get close.
"Now pretty close, you can do that." Give me more play pretty good, not pretty
good, just play better.  
 
Q. Did you have a good feeling about today?
 
 SE RI PAK: Yes. Just happy this morning. Just feels like light, you know. Just practice
the range, just normal and putting, practice. I hit it pretty firm going to the hole. And
I play with Lorie; it feels just like practice round. That's why today, even though I had
bad shot I still made pretty good finish, I think.  
 
Q. Were you thinking strategically at 15?
 
 SE RI PAK: Yeah.  
 
Q. So that was pretty important to you then?
 
 SE RI PAK: I knew at 11, I make up the birdie next hole I got great chance. I thought I
made the putt already, you know, but it was -- yeah, so badly. And after that, it feels
like I saw the scoreboard; it change so fast, I don't know how many seconds it keep
changing, but at that time Karrie Webb was playing pretty good at that time. So maybe
she's 11-under. Maybe, maybe not. I just keep trying harder and hard. I make the birdie at
10. Make the birdie at 11. Pretty good feeling after front nine. Feels like getting
better; so I kept trying to hit it firm and kept trying to get closer to the pin; kept
trying to hit the fairway; kept trying to try. Just kind of bad break all the time when I
see totally different break for me. Then after 15, that is big putt, I think, for me,
yeah. Tied for the lead, 12-under. Still, I've got a chance, but I didn't make any putts.
So I know it's good to go to playoff. If not, still good.  
 
Q. Can you see a rivalry between you and Karrie because you're both so young and so
good?
 
 SE RI PAK: Somehow for age, I think. We just, you know, young and pretty strong, our
bodies and everything. We don't have anything -- nothing to worry -- nothing to lose
anyway. This way, play hard and keep going in, practice hard no matter what. Later on,
maybe I get more, maybe at that time, that's real golf, I think, just like short games, or
like everything (inaudible) handle everything. Now I think because of age -- I think
that's it, age is important. 
 
Q. Is there something about Karrie's game that you like or that you admire?
 
 SE RI PAK: I like her putting. Yeah, she's hitting pretty strongly. Feels like hitting
very -- trusts herself a lot and hitting pretty confident. I like her putting style. Hit
it, no matter what, hit it so far, so firm.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT