NBA FINALS: CELTIC v LAKERS
June 10, 2010
Glen Davis
Nate Robinson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 Q. Nate, when you think about where this year started, where you were in December, how much are you appreciating this moment? And how much fun are you having performing on this big stage? 
 NATE ROBINSON: I mean, I'm loving it right now. I mean, first and foremost, I just thank the Lord for just putting me in this situation. This is a blessing. So I'm very happy. 

 Q. I just asked Phil about guarding you guys and playing defense on both you guys, and he had no comment. What are your thoughts on why he has no comment? Do you guys have your way --
 GLEN DAVIS: I don't have no comment, either. If Phil Jackson don't have no comment, then I don't have no comment. (Laughter).

 Q. How did you feel going to the basket? You were 7 for 10 tonight. 
 GLEN DAVIS: I just felt like a beast. Really, I'm going to just be honest with you. I just felt like I couldn't be denied, rebound -- if a rebound was in my vicinity or like if the ball was going to be laid up, you know, I just felt like I just couldn't be denied. And it kind of started off with me missing those two, a lay-up and then the jump shot. I was really upset at myself, and I said I've got to seize the moment here. There's not too many times you get a chance to be in The Finals and be a part of something so great that you can never really imagine yourself even being here. I just couldn't be denied today.

 Q. And Nate, could you comment on your instant offense tonight. 
 NATE ROBINSON: I'll comment on my energy. I mean, that's me. I can score points, I can do all that, play D, I just want to bring energy. The more energy I bring, the more I get the crowd involved, my teammates, the energy of the building, the sky's the limit. I just love bringing the energy. 

 Q. Glen, you look up, five, six minutes left in the game. What's going through your head? You're still in the game, still rolling. What's going through your head? Are you looking over to the bench? 
 GLEN DAVIS: All I'm thinking about is, let's win. I'm not thinking about anything else. I'm not even thinking about Kobe making all these shots, worried about this or worried about that. I'm just worried about winning, whatever it takes to win, and just making sure that I give my teammates positive energy to finish out the game. 

 Q. Nate, this is for you: Can you tell us how you've managed to come in, fit in, produce the way you have in the short amount of time that you have, and you seem like there's so much growth that has taken place since I saw you down there. 
 NATE ROBINSON: I mean, again, like when I first came, the guys welcomed me with open arms. I just felt like I've been here for years. So that made it easy for me to make the transition from the Knicks, and then just coming in playing, I know how to play the game of basketball. My teammates, they put so much confidence in me. 
 I mean, I just feel like a kid that's just at the park. Just like all my boys. We're just playing basketball. We get out there playing, I know a lot of people and you guys get nervous, but it's stuff we've been doing since we was five, six years old. So it's nothing new to us. I understand this is the highest level. Each team is fighting for a ring, and my teammates, man, they're a blessing, man. Like each guy, each guy brings something different to the table, and we all use it together. And I think that's what you need in a team. 

 Q. What have you found in Boston that makes -- what have you found in Boston? Like when you got here, what did you find and were you surprised by what you saw? 
 NATE ROBINSON: Just how much -- like when I got here, how much my teammates, Doc, the coaching staff, Wyc, the owners, Danny Ainge, how much they just wanted me to be here, and I just felt like you know how you get transferred from school, from your parents transferring you, you're the new kid and you're kind of nervous, and when the whole team, the whole class just opens you with open arms and makes it easy for you to feel loved, I was like, yeah, I'm at home. I feel safe, I feel loved, and I feel like they need me to do one thing, which is bring energy and be along for this ride. 

 Q. This is for both you guys: Your teammates and coaches know what you can do off the bench, but do you think you surprised the Lakers and surprised basketball fans across the country with the way the bench played in the fourth quarter? 
 GLEN DAVIS: Most definitely. I don't think that what we did today was really on the scouting report. A lot of things that we did, it was a lot of just will and determination and seizing the moment. You know, we all have been college players, and we've both had success in the NBA so far. I think the world knows that we can play the game. But to play it at this level and the way we played it, I don't think they knew that. 
 You know, this is new to me. You know, really playing in The Finals and being a part of the team. My first year I was a part, but I really didn't play a huge part in winning. And it's new for everybody. So everybody gets to see what's going on. 
 NATE ROBINSON: I just think that you can't scout energy, no matter what. Something my college coach used to say is that the more energy you bring, you'll be surprised what the outcome of the game will be. Just play as hard as you can for as long as you can. I think our bench -- our team, but mostly our bench, that's what we try to do when we're in there. We try to play as hard as we can for as long as we can, play through the mistakes, play through the calls, play through everything, and we did that tonight. And the world is just opening their eyes now to see how we've been playing. We've been playing like this since rookie year. But of course now it's at the highest level, so now people are starting to open their eyes and they see the players that we're capable of being, and we showed them tonight. 

 Q. Doc was in here and told us about his six-point rule, that he was going to go with you guys until it got down to six. Did you know about that number or that rule? 
 NATE ROBINSON: No, I was hoping not to come out of the game. 
 GLEN DAVIS: I was wishing I didn't come out of the game, but I'm glad to know that now, so we won't let it get to six points.
 NATE ROBINSON: The main thing, when you're playing like that, you just try to play, like I said, as hard as you can for as long as you can, and then you want the starters to go back in so they can carry us home. We did our job today, we went in, we played hard, played smart, played together. And then the guys, the starting five, they go in and they bring us home. That's the beauty about a team.

 Q. Did you feel some ownership for what went on? And did you want to finish it out if possible?
 GLEN DAVIS: I was really looking at the clock like, when is he going to come get me? 
 NATE ROBINSON: I was thinking the same thing.
 GLEN DAVIS: We're playing, but time-out go by, he don't sub, I was like, man, he's letting us roll.
 NATE ROBINSON: It was fun. It was fun today.
 GLEN DAVIS: I want to give Doc a hug, man. I love Doc.
 NATE ROBINSON: Tell him "thank you".
 GLEN DAVIS: I sure appreciate it. 

 Q. Great moment after that three-point play, fourth quarter. I think you've already heard about this a little bit from your teammates, Glen, when you were yelling and just very happy and maybe just a little bit of drool --
 NATE ROBINSON: Slobber, yeah, I tried to wipe it --
 GLEN DAVIS: Let me tell you something right quick. When you're in the moment, you're in the moment. If I slobber, snot, spit, please excuse me. Kids, don't do that. Have manners and things like that. Sorry about that. Did I catch you with some? 

 Q. No. And Nate, you jumping on his back at that moment as well. Just that moment for you guys, to be able to share it --
 GLEN DAVIS: You were on my back? 
 NATE ROBINSON: You didn't even notice. We're like Shrek and Donkey. (Laughter). You can't separate us.
 GLEN DAVIS: You shouldn't have let us two get up here. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT