NBA FINALS: CELTIC v LAKERS
June 5, 2010
Glen Davis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		   GLEN DAVIS: Passion. That's what you want to call it. I would say energy. I think The Finals are The Finals and it's a different level of play. We've just got to bring our level of play up. I feel like our passion is there. We want to win. We know the consequences of this game. We know the consequences of every game, even if we don't bring it. 
 As far as passion, I wouldn't say passion, I would just say the level of play has to go up. Passion is how you feel about the game. You know, just something deep inside. I just think as far as energy, we have to go out there and do it and make it happen. 

 Q. Is that kind of the beauty of a series like this where they might get you in Game 1 and you relish the challenge of coming back with everything in Game 2?
 GLEN DAVIS: Yeah, that is the beauty. It's a competitive sport, and we've got to make sure that we focus on what we have to focus on, and Game 2 is huge. We lost Game 1 not doing things we normally do, and that is compete. We didn't compete to the level that we should have. And we know how important Game 2 is. It's still a challenge. This is what it's all about. This is what the people want to see. They want to see a good series. They want to see trials and tribulations. They want to see a lot of good stuff. In this series you'll see that because we're playing two great teams that are capable of bringing everything. 

 Q. (Inaudible). 
 GLEN DAVIS: You know, it's tough, especially when you've got to guard Kobe. You can't be really aggressive with him because of the calls. Some refs see some things, some refs don't. Some refs look at different things. It's funny because some refs have their go-to moves. They know what they like or they know what they say, and those are difficult. We've just got to play through that, and we've got to set the tempo first. We set the tempo first, hopefully the refs will adjust to the rest of the team. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT