NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS v MAGIC
May 23, 2010
Glen Davis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Just kind of a thought on trying to close it out here. Players often say the fourth one is the toughest one to get.   
 GLEN DAVIS: Yeah, most definitely. It's tough because right now we can get the big heads, three up, and just lay down. Just them being competitive and being a good team, I always feel like they're in it no matter what. Especially if they win two in a row and go back home.   
 So we just got to close it out. Our mentality has to stay the same. We have to understand what we need to accomplish and what we did wrong last game and make sure that we don't do it this game.   
  
  Q. Are you surprised that guys like Dwight Howard said where's our heart?   
 GLEN DAVIS: I don't pay attention to what they concentrate on and do. I just know what we do and what we concentrate on. What they have problems with is not our fault -- not our problem. We play defense. That's the problem. But at the same time, we don't worry about what they are doing and what they say. At the same time, I know they're competitive. They are going to play out -- all the way out.   
  
  Q. On a team of veterans, Rondo as a young guy has managed to become a leader. How does that influence you, seeing him do what he's done? Does that make you kind of want to get up in those ranks too?   
 GLEN DAVIS: I think every player, every young player, sees themselves being a leader one day. Rondo is just here at the right time at the right moment. It's his turn.   
 The big three has been leading us. Rondo has emerged into a player that's a leader who is doing a great job for us. So as far as myself, yeah, you want to be like that. You want to have the opportunity to lead. If I get my opportunity, I feel like -- yeah.   
  
  Q. What has that transformation been like, watching from your perspective, for Rondo?   
 GLEN DAVIS: It's great to see Rondo transform into a great player. When you've known him for the majority of your life and seen him play for years. He works hard, and he does what he's supposed to do. So I'm not surprised on how good of a player he is.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT