NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS v MAGIC
May 20, 2010
Glen Davis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. (Indiscernible)?   
 GLEN DAVIS: Now I'm just using it to my best ability.   
  
  Q. What was it like going through that last year?   
 GLEN DAVIS: It was different for me. I love the intensity. I love the spotlight, the big stage. It's just something that I'm used to doing.   
  
  Q. Do you guys bring something different to the table, you, Perkins and Rasheed, on defense?   
 GLEN DAVIS: Most definitely. I think all three of us can guard and we take turns guarding. Perk is the main guy defensively. He's been through it this whole year. He's a defensive-minded type of person. He does well when he does it.   
 And Rasheed, he can guard -- he has a lot of length, clever. And me, I'm just, you know, pushing him away from the rim, make him finish over the top. Hopefully he'll miss it. Kind of bothering him more in the post-up, things like that.   
 All three of us have ways of guarding him. Last year he did a great job, Dwight made some big jump-hooks. He did some great things last year. We're just trying to make sure we maintain him.   
  
  Q. Do you keep him away from the basket as much as possible?   
 GLEN DAVIS: Most definitely. We try to keep him away from the basket as much as possible. Make him a skill player more than let him use his athletic ability.   
  
  Q. How do you guard against getting overconfident?   
 GLEN DAVIS: Stay focused. That's all. We have to stay focused. We know we're up 2-0. We went on their home court and won. But people have to realize the fact in this season up here they're undefeated. They came to the Garden and beat us. So we understand that, and we know that.   
 We can't worry about what we did over there. That's over and done with. We have to come over here and defend our home court.   
  
  Q. Do you have any reaction to Paul's tweet? Did it make you laugh?   
 GLEN DAVIS: I don't think Paul tweeted that. That was false.   
  
  Q. Really?   
 GLEN DAVIS: I don't believe that. I believe what I see on TV, but I don't believe the tweets, because that can be anybody tweeting.   
  
  Q. Is that something the ticket stub might say?   
 GLEN DAVIS: Yeah.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT