VALERO TEXAS OPEN
September 27, 2003
Glen Hnatiuk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Glen, for joining us for a few minutes in the media center.  Great round today 64.  It looks like you're in a good position going into the final round.  Talk about today and maybe your position for Sunday.

GLEN HNATIUK:  I got off to a good start.  I birdied three of my first four, and the rest of the day I didn't miss the fairway, so I gave myself a lot of opportunities to try to get the ball close.  I only missed two greens, and one of them I didn't get up and down, but I think I took advantage of good iron shots I hit, and I putted pretty good today.


Q.  How is your health?  I know you had shoulder surgery.

GLEN HNATIUK: The shoulder was pretty good.  I had it done during the week of the MCI Heritage.  There wasn't really anything really wrong with it.  There was just inflammation of rotator cuff muscle, and that was it.  And then I had tendonitis in my left elbow.  


Q.  Was it hotter today than earlier in the week?

GLEN HNATIUK: It was hotter than expected.  There really wasn't any wind until the back nine or so.  It was blowing a little different direction, so it was a little different switch.


Q.  Six of the top ten guys are 40 and over.  You're 38, do you feel you have a chance tomorrow?

GLEN HNATIUK:  I would like to think so.  If I play just the way I did today, depending on what the leaders are doing, it will make a difference, but I'll stick to my own game play and hopefully play as well tomorrow as I did today.


Q.  Do you think age makes a difference?

GLEN HNATIUK: I don't think nowadays age makes that much of a difference, except maybe if you're talking mid 40s to mid 20's.  Everybody is working out.  Everybody is in really good shape.  Jay Haas is a perfect example.  He hasn't won this year.  His play is unbelievable.  It doesn't seem like age makes a difference.  They're obviously all really good players.

JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Let's go through your birdies and bogeys.

GLEN HNATIUK:  Made about a 20-footer on 1.

Made about a 15-footer on 2. 

Made about a 15-footer on 4.

15-footer on 10. 

Made about a 6, 7-footer on 12. 

I was just pin high left on 13, maybe no more than 15 feet from the hole.  It's tough chipping out of this Bermuda stuff and made bogey. 

Pin high on the par five and chipped up to about a foot. 

Got up and down on 15.  Hit a bad iron shot and hit a pretty good chip shot about four or five feet and made it.

On 17, I made probably made about a 12-footer.


Q.  Did the course play much differently than the past couple of days?

GLEN HNATIUK: Just a little bit of a wind direction change.  10, I think had been kind of down, downwind.  Today it was kind of dead in, and 11 was dead in.  I've been hitting 3-wood, wedge, on 11, and hit a driver today, so just a little change in direction.  It wasn't real strong, enough to catch your attention, but it wasn't too bad.


Q.  How were the greens?  It didn't look like they were holding like they were earlier.

GLEN HNATIUK:  They're holding good.  They haven't really firmed up, and they're kind of at a speed if you get the grain right, they're not at a real getaway speed, so they're a good speed to make putts.  


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT