FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 28, 2002
Glen Hnatiuk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  We're pleased to be joined by Glen Hnatiuk to the media room. 

Thanks for coming in.  Great day again today, another round of 65.  You're 12-under and our current leader.  If you could just get us going a little bit with how the day went and a little bit about your round.

GLEN HNATIUK:  Well, I played pretty solid again.  I didn't miss a fairway.  And I think I only missed a couple greens and they were fringes.  So my game was there once again and I made a few putts as well. 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:   When you missed the greens out there, there's some areas you can putt or chip or kind of be creative.  Is that good for your game?

GLEN HNATIUK:  Well, this week so far, I really haven't put myself in that kind of spot.  Every time I miss the green, it's been a real easy pitch or even a putt from the fringe.  So I haven't had that kind of situation yet.  But with me, with my short game it's kind of dicey.  I'm kind of streaky when it comes to my short game. 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Tell us about the putt on 18.  We measured it at 27 feet 10 inches.  Had to feel good to finish your round like that.

GLEN HNATIUK:  Well, yeah, it was a great putt.  Sean Murphy was almost on the identical lawn that I had and I was just kind of feeding it over that hill and actually kind of lagging.  Trying to get it down in two and the speed kept up and went in. 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  We will take some questions now. 

Q.  Have you had a share of the lead after 36 holes before and talk about having that to yourself. 

GLEN HNATIUK:  No, I haven't.  So I have no idea how I'm going to react.  I just have to trust my game.  And that's all I have to go on.  So we will see what happens.
Q.  Nice to make that putt on 18 and have it to yourself and not be bunched up together?

GLEN HNATIUK:  Why not.  You're always trying to make a putt.  Like I said, I was trying to lag it down there.  But you're always trying to make the putt.  No matter what it's for, whether to take ahead or to make a cut or whatever it is.  I was just fortunate enough that it went in and like I said, I've been putting, for me, pretty solid the last two days. 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Go through your round real quick.  No bogeys today and had you six birdies starting on No. 2.

GLEN HNATIUK:  I made probably about a 10-footer.  Had a sandwedge in there and made about a 10-footer. 

Number 6, I hit a 9-iron in there, made probably 10 feet again. 

Number 10, I hit an 8-iron probably about four feet. 

Number 13, I hit a 7-iron in there probably about 15 feet. 

16, hit a 4-wood on the front fringe and 3-putted.  I don't know what that was.  25 feet, maybe. 

I hit 9-iron on 18 and just kind of hung it out to the right.  I didn't want to get too greedy with that shot.  But I wasn't real happy with the shot but I was happy with the result. 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  We will take a couple more questions.

Q.  Do you go out celebrate tonight or do you -- how do you approach tonight going into tomorrow?

GLEN HNATIUK:  Well, like I was talking about yesterday, I never had the share of a lead after the first round, I don't think have I any way -- so today was just, it was Friday; it was the second round.  That's it.  I'm going to try and approach Saturday and Sunday the same way.  I've had troubles in the past where I kind of get in my own way and I get way ahead of myself thinking of consequences and what might happen and that's been a little bit of a problem for me.  So Saturday is going to be just Saturday.
Q.  Have you been working with anybody in particular on the mental aspect of the game?

GLEN HNATIUK:  Not enough.  I've worked with Patrick Cohn who is from Orlando. I haven't seen him in a long time.  But I have worked with him a little bit and he kind of helped me build a base.  Something I can at least refer back to. 
Q.  You talked about how your irons have been working for you.  Did you do anything in the last week or so that helped you play like this?

GLEN HNATIUK:  Well, I saw my teacher, Ron Gring his name is.  He was in Westchester.  He works with four, five guys out here.  I've been working with him since I turned pro.  And I saw him at Westchester.  And we worked on two things.  And after about the third day there, I think Saturday and Sunday my ball striking really clicked.  And even the week before it -- was Kemper the week before Westchester?  Is that right.  Yeah the Kemper I played well.  I didn't really swing it that well, but I played well.  Westchester, my ball striking really started to click, especially Saturday, Sunday.   Hartford, you know, it was the same thing.  Through the course of the whole week I felt like I was playing really solid.  Swinging it really well.  And it's continued this week. 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Anything else?
Q.  R O N?

GLEN HNATIUK:  G R I N G. 
Q.  When you used to play Junior B, were you right-handed or left-handed?

GLEN HNATIUK:  Right.
Q.  What position?

GLEN HNATIUK:  Center. 
Q.  Playmaker or scorer?

GLEN HNATIUK:  A little of both.  I wasn't, I didn't have lightning speed and I didn't have a rocket of a shot.  But I was okay.  I was mediocre. 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Okay.  Thank you very much. 

GLEN HNATIUK:  Thanks.  

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT