BIG EAST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 8, 2007
Jim Boeheim
Demetris Nichols
Terrence Roberts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JIM BOEHEIM:  I thought we just were not as active defensively in the second half.  I thought we looked a little tired.  But you know, I think Notre Dame is a very good team, offensive team against our zone.  We had to be a little bit better on offense than we were.  When we had the 10-point lead in the first half and they went to the zone, we didn't attack it very well, and I thought that was the difference in the game.  They got back in the game playing a zone, which nobody has even been able to play zone against us this year.  I didn't think we attacked it very well. 
 You know, I thought our looks from the 3 were good today; they were good yesterday.  We did not shoot it well here.  From the three-point line, that's a big strength of our team this year.  I really like the looks we got.  Obviously you can't miss 13 free throws in a close game in a tournament, I thought that was a factor. 
 I thought Terrence and Paul did a good job on the boards, that's the best we've rebounded the ball without a doubt all year.  I just didn't think we made some shots, particularly the free throws to win; Notre Dame is a very good basketball team and they are the only team that we were not in the game with this year coming in here. 
 But you know, we had to shoot the ball a little bit better today, and we didn't. 

 Q.  You talk about the free throw shooting, 16 for 29 in the second half alone and Terrence going 0 for 6 from the cherry stripe -- 
 JIM BOEHEIM:  Is there a question in there someplace? 

 Q.  Coming off the poor free throw shooting, how do you then try to build the game somewhere else if you know you're not doing well at the free throw line? 
 JIM BOEHEIM:  Well, there's nothing that I know that I can do about missing free throws.  You miss them, you try to get them back and you try to make the next one. 

 Q.  Attacking from the perimeter, is that what makes Notre Dame tough? 
 JIM BOEHEIM:  They have been doing the same thing against us for the last eight years. 

 Q.  But with this personnel -- 
 JIM BOEHEIM:  They have had just as good of personnel or better. 

 Q.  Can you talk about Paul's game tonight? 
 JIM BOEHEIM:  I thought Paul was great on the boards.  I thought he went after it, you know, all night long.  Terrence and Paul were tremendous on the boards tonight. 

 Q.  Obviously you guys played well down the stretch, what do you think of your position now going into the NCAA Tournament? 
 JIM BOEHEIM:  No idea. 

 Q.  In the first half, Demetris when they switched to zone, did that throw you off or give you a different defense to look at there? 
 DEMETRIS NICHOLS:  No, you know, I don't think that we adjusted, you know, right, and I think that really -- I think that really like -- I think they tried to like, when they went into the zone, we wasn't doing the things that we were supposed to do basically, you know, like trying to get the ball into the middle and stuff like that. 
 But you know, I think they just caught us off guard. 

 Q.  11 offensive rebounds, 20 for the game, talk about how hard you are working down low in the post to try to bring your team back? 
 TERRENCE ROBERTS:  I'm just doing what my team and my coach ask me to do.  I'm just working hard and giving it all I've got.  That's what I should be doing every game, out there and rebounding so we can get a win. 

 Q.  Demetris, yesterday you mentioned that you came off a bad game and came back with a really strong second half yesterday, so you know how to bounce back.  After today's performance, you have to look forward to the NCAA Tournament; what's it going to take for you to bounce back from today? 
 DEMETRIS NICHOLS:  I think just hard work and practice and preparing well.  I think that's about it. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT