AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 9, 2014
Wayne Gretzky
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about playing with Dustin. 
WAYNE GRETZKY:   It was a great opportunity to see what it's like on the other side of the ropes.   And I felt really privileged as a sports fan and as a friend of his, to be able to be in the ropes.   And I couldn't have asked ‑‑ although the weather was a little tough, the fans were unreal, and it was really a special four days and I had a great time. 

Q.   What did you learn the most from hanging around these pros?
WAYNE GRETZKY:   Just how hard it is to be successful.   And I was telling ‑‑ somebody said to me the other day, what's the biggest comparison between hockey and golf, and I said it's pretty simple, it's practice and preparation.   And when you want to become a good athlete, and it doesn't matter what sport it is, whether it's baseball, or ice hockey, or golf, you have to practice and you have to love it and you have to have a passion.   If you do all that, that goes a long way. 
And for me, let me tell you something, man, I'm lucky I played National Hockey League, and everything I have in my life is because of hockey.   I met a lot of wonderful people.   And now I can have fun.   For me this is fun.
I don't practice golf.   I don't want to embarrass myself when I come out here.   I hit some bad shots, I hit some good shots, and I had more fun than anybody.   But, I was really lucky in the pairing that we had with John Daly and Bobby, and of course, Dustin.   So, I wouldn't trade it for anything.   We had a wonderful time.

Q.   Do you think you guys make it look so easy, you in hockey and these guys in golf that the kids today, it just doesn't translate, the commitment that you have talked about and just the work that you need to put in?
WAYNE GRETZKY:   To me it's not work, it's passion.   People come up to me all the time and say, will you tell my son how long and how hard you practiced, or will you tell my daughter.   And I always say the same thing, I never practiced.   When you're 10, 11, 12 years old, all you want to do is play hockey.   I played hockey eight hours a day and I didn't think it was practicing, I was just having fun.   That was my life and that was my passion.
And, obviously, over the last year and a half, I've got a good chance to meet Dustin and get to know him and he's the same way.   When you're a young kid, you go out and play.   And that's what you do and that's your passion and that's your fun.   And people say, are you practicing?   That's not practice, that's just love and if you have a passion and a love for it, you're going to become a great athlete. 
And I have a 21 year old son who is in the Cubs organization, and he's a really good young man.   I tell him the same thing I tell any young kid.   If you have the heart and you have the passion, you are the first guy at practice every day and you're the first guy to be there.   And you're the last guy to leave.   Those are guys that become superstars and it's not a big secret. 

Q.   So, something tells me, I guess, your passion for this particular game will just have to head to the driving range to work on what didn't work out there. 
WAYNE GRETZKY:   No, listen, I have fun.   I have most fun playing with my wife.   It's a great family game.   I love the sport.   One of the greatest golfers in the history of golf was Moe Norman from my hometown.   And I got a chance to grow up and know him and play a lot with him, and it's just a wonderful sport. 
And this whole setting is so special.   And the fans, forget about everything else, to be in this weather, they talk about the January 1 game, the outdoor game, this is what these people went through for four days and for them to show up like they did is pretty unique.   And we all had a great experience. 

Q.   And with respect to this tournament setup and the fans that you had alluded to, I believe this is it as far as the PGA the entertainment world?
WAYNE GRETZKY:   This is like our January 1, NHL outdoor game.   This is pretty special.   So you know, I'm really privileged and proud of the fact that I get a chance to come here and play.   And I'm so thrilled that I get a chance to play with Dustin.   I wouldn't want it any other way, just, he's a really, really, wonderful young man and I'm proud to say that I'm a friend of his. 

Q.   How did he play today?
WAYNE GRETZKY:   Oh, forget it.   Look at this weather and the conditions and how he played, it was so unique.   I was telling him, I haven't said much, people always say do you ever say anything to him?   And I really don't.   And he had that putt on 18, I said you get it to 11, put some pressure and heat on everybody.   But he got to 10 and we'll see what happens.   The conditions were tough and he played really well.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT