AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 6, 2014
Wayne Gretzky
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What did you say you shot here last year?  
WAYNE GRETZKY:   96.   
(Laughter.)   I don't know what I shot today, but it was probably in the mid 80s.   I was pretty happy.   I was pretty thrilled with the way I played.   More happy with the fact that he was 4‑under today and it's a tough course.   To be 4‑under today in this condition, this weather, and we played a few holes in the rain, so good for him.   That's more important than us.   I'm here for fun, he's here to work.   
   
 Q.   Away from the daily stuff I was curious to know if you wouldn't mind going through your 10 favorite golf courses.   
WAYNE GRETZKY:   I love playing at Sherwood Country Club, because that's where I live.   My hometown I grew up the Brantford Golf and Country Club.   I got an opportunity a couple times to play Augusta.   There's no other place like Augusta.   And then I live in Idaho in the summertime, and we play at a place called Gozzer Ranch.   To me, if I could just play golf on those courses I would be the happiest guy in the world.   And then every now and then if he invites me I get to play Augusta.   
   
 Q.   What's special about Gozzer Ranch?  
WAYNE GRETZKY:   We live in a lake house there.   My kids, we boat and we get to play golf.   Phil Mickelson actually said it's his favorite Tom Fazio golf course.   It's a special place.   We spend June, July and August there.   It's really something special for our family and a place that I really enjoy.  
   
 Q.   Any others come to mind?   I think you got through five.   
WAYNE GRETZKY:   Edmonton Country Club.   I played Pine Valley.   It's beautiful.   Other than that, wherever you take me.   I promise you, wherever you take me, I would love it.   I got an opportunity to grow up and play a lot of golf with Moe Norman and he just loved to play golf and I'm the same way.   You put me on the golf course and I'm happy.  
   
 Q.   How about three others?  
WAYNE GRETZKY:   You're pressing me.   Bel‑Air, Riviera, and L.A. Country Club.   
   
 Q.   Did you ever play in Scotland?  
WAYNE GRETZKY:   I haven't played in Scotland.   I would would love to.   I had three days of this morning, I took my son over to a father/son golf tournament two years ago in Waterville and in southern Ireland and it was horrible weather, but the people were phenomenal and we had a great time.   
   
 Q.   It seems quarterbacks and hockey players transition to golf very well?  
WAYNE GRETZKY:   I don't know that, I'm in the very good.   Trust me.   
   
 Q.   You look like you were driving it pretty well?  
WAYNE GRETZKY:   I hit the ball good today.   I've had a chance to practice a lot with Dustin and play with him.   And he's so attentive to everybody that he plays with.   And that's‑‑ he's a special young man.   He's a really nice person and so he's helped my game tremendously, no question.   I'm a better player than I was before I met him.   
   
 Q.   Is there anything like hand‑eye coordination or anything that corresponds from other sports?  
WAYNE GRETZKY:   Oh, yeah, of course.   That's a big thing.   I think that just your eager necessary to do well and your competitive spirit.   We have that in us as athletes and it doesn't go away.   
   
 Q.   Have you gotten Dustin on skates yet?  
WAYNE GRETZKY:   We almost did and then I talked him out of it.   I didn't want him to get hurt.   Last year we were in my fantasy camp and he was getting ready to go play in Doral and I said, hey, you better not.   So one of these days we'll get him out there.   
   
 Q.   How cool was that to witness No. 9?  
WAYNE GRETZKY:   That was unreal because it's funny that because it went in the hole, and when it went out, and I got to know him so well over the last year and a half and I said he's so fired up, I said he's going to make this.   And he chipped it in and I was like, oh, my gosh.   So it was unreal.   I said you might have the two shots of the day on TV, one that went in and out and the next one that went in.   First guy to ever have two shots of the day in a row.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT