NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
November 5, 2000
Gorder Bakoulis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Was this your last marathon? 
 
GORDER BAKOULIS:  The Olympic trials on February 26.  And I was 45th there in 2:50:04.  
 

Q.  Was it windy? 
 
GORDER BAKOULIS:  Yes, it was very windy.  
 
GORDER BAKOULIS:  At about 19, I started to think, all right  -- I turned around and the wind was at my back, it was in my face.  One of those days where the wind was really swirly and I just felt it from everywhere it was.  And I just kind of gave up on keeping track of my splits after a while because it was very discouraging.  But, maybe two minutes. 
 
GORDER BAKOULIS:  How about the men?  
 
GORDER BAKOULIS:  That's fantastic.  It must have been a real race up front with those kind of times. 
 
GORDER BAKOULIS:  I had done 1:17:25 at Hartford a few weeks ago -- in Hartford, Connecticut.  I was hoping for 2:23, but I was really pleased with how I ran.  I was a little bit too aggressive early  on.  I was at the half at 1:25, something like that, and slowed down and did the second half.  But all things considered, I'm very happy with my time and my place.  
 

Q.  How did it feel to be running back in New York?  You haven't run here since '94? 
 
GORDER BAKOULIS:  Yeah, it felt great.  I actually haven't done all that many in New York.  It was my fifth.  I did it in 1984 as just a fun run; I did 3:40.  And in '89, 2:33; and   '92 where I ran 2:33, also; and in '94 I ran 2:45, like this year.  So it was kind of fun to think about all of the different experiences that I've had in New York.  I just love it.   I get very emotional at certain points out there.  I love the City so much, and you really see so much of it when you race, all of the different people that make up the city and, it was a great experience and I hope that I can come back again next year.  
 

Q.  How did Alan do? 
 
GORDER BAKOULIS:  I don't know.  Does anybody have any idea how my husband did?  He was ahead of me.  I never saw him.  Unless he dropped out, he beat me.  
 

Q.  (Inaudible)?
 
GORDER BAKOULIS:  It had been six years since I had done it.  So it wasn't all that fresh in my mind.  So, in some ways it was like doing it for the first time.  There's a part in Brooklyn really around ten miles where you can see Manhattan for a long way I think on Bedford Avenue, and just beautiful views of the City.  I really enjoyed coming across the Pulaski Bridge in Queens, I love the Queensboro Bridge, just you and the other runners.  First Avenue was like a blur this year.  Before I knew it, it was over.  And the Park was phenomenal.  So many people seem to know my name out there.  At first I was just looking every time I heard my name.  And then after a while, I guess they just know who I am.  It was really very emotional and very satisfying. 
 
GORDER BAKOULIS:  In terms of the place, and just how I ran it;  I think I ran it aggressively, and I never really stopped competing, even though my splits were off.  I would have preferred a faster time going into my Masters years, but my next marathon definitely will be after I turn 40 in February.  So, I'm hoping that I can be competitive.  
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT