JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 15, 2018
Joel Dahmen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Well Joel, love the fist bump when that putt went in on 18.  Everything means something out here, doesn't it?  
JOEL DAHMEN: A ton.  I think with last week's finish I probably locked up my card FedEx-wise, but for me it's money right now.  That's why I play the game is to make a living.   
For this, I want to get in Malaysia in the fall, Korea as well.  For me it's moving on up as far as I can.   
 Q.  FedExCup points are certainly important for that TOUR card.  You look any other week, like, Wow, might be playoff time, but Mike was playing so well.  You really can't think about that.  It doesn't spoil a great week for you, does it?  
JOEL DAHMEN: No, not at all.  Not for me.  This is huge for me.  I played great coming down the stretch.  I knew going into today I had no chance to win really unless Michael faltered, and that obviously didn't happen early.   
With that, we were just kind of playing for second.  Even at times -- I was off the boards for a long time, and I looked up on 17 when I had an eight-footer and I'm like, Oh, I can actually still finish second.  So that was kind of my goal going in today.  If I play a great round and maybe some guys don't do a lot of stuff I can finish second.   
Not sure exactly where I'll finish, but I'm super happy.   
 Q.  You know, it wasn't easy.  Two bunkers there.  The bunker on 17, and tell me about the bunker shot on 18.  That was gutsy.  
JOEL DAHMEN: If people had any idea what I've been through with fairway bunkers.  On the last hole of U.S.  Open qualifying I was in a fairway bunker and chunked it out about 100 yards into water and missed U.S. Open qualifying.   
The week after that I was at Travelers; I was in like 16th place on Friday afternoon.  I chunked it out of a fairway bunker into water; made triple.   
Did a lot of work these last couple weeks and I've actually hit some good ones.  And that one -- honestly I'm not even sure.  I don't know what happened with that shot.  Just blacked out.  It was so good.   
 Q.  Well, the work paid off, the practice paid off, and things are on the way up for you.  Congratulations on a great week.  
JOEL DAHMEN: Yeah, thank you so much.  Appreciate it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT