TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 21, 2009
Brandon Sharpe
Alex Torres
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


   THE MODERATOR: We have receiver Alex Torres, and defensive end Brandon Sharpe. Brandon Sharpe now second place for a single season sack list. Alex Torres career high yardage today. Questions for Alex and Brandon.   
  
  Q. Could you just talk about the day you had today with the two and a half sacks?   
 BRANDON SHARPE: Oh, it was just hard work. I wanted to get more still. But I think at the beginning of the game I was just coming out trying to do too much, too hard and too aggressive and stuff instead of just coming down and seeing everything at the whole field and stuff.   
 But it was pretty good. Pretty fun, you know, two and a half. Thought I had a three. But it's a blessing whatever I got, you know. Just working hard.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about the record? You have a chance to break it. What does that mean to you if approximate anything?   
 BRANDON SHARPE: Oh, shoot, it means a lot, you know. I mean, hopefully I can finish up with a little bit more, break it and keep going with it and stuff for these last few games we've got. I hope to have my name sitting here with the sack list and stuff. So the people that's coming in next year are going to look forward to having something to do, something to work for, you know.   
  
  Q. How good does it feel to play like this as a defense considering what happened in the second half last week and last year against Oklahoma?   
 BRANDON SHARPE: Oh, man, it feels really good. I feel we played good last week, too, you know. We just had things going our way. That's stuff we can't control, you know. We just have to keep on fighting through it, and hoping for the best out of the situation.   
  
  Q. Coach Leach talked about not being happy with the receivers last week. But you came out and set the tone today for the entire unit it seemed like?   
 ALEX TORRES: I think not only Coach Leach, but the receiving corps ourselves were really disappointed in our play last week. We felt responsible for a lot of the things that we didn't capitalize on last week.   
 So we made it a major focus to really come out and be able to be the unit that the offense could lean on. Although we did a good job, our O-line were tremendous. They were definitely the unit we leaned on and jumped on their backs this whole game.   
 So hat's off to OU and their defense and everything that they did, but, I mean, it was real important to bounce back from our performance last week.   
  
  Q. Was there any special motivation in trying to get Leach his win to to put him over the top as the winningest coach in tech history? Do you guys ever talk about that at all?   
 ALEX TORRES: We didn't talk about it much. But I'm sure every player here that's learned so much from him was, I mean deep inside really wanted to go ahead and do that for him. Not only were we able to do that and help Coach Leach be the most winningest coach in Tech history.   
 But a game for the seniors to go out in the last game here in the Jones Stadium, I mean, it's nice to be able to do something for all those who have done so much for us. I mean, the seniors and Coach Leach.   
 I'm happier for what they were able to do today. I'm just happy I could go ahead and give back to some of what they've given to me, all the seniors and Coach Leach, of course.   
  
  Q. The celebration and jumping around a little over 13 minutes to go in the game. How did that come about?   
 ALEX TORRES: I didn't play last year. You want to take that?   
 BRANDON SHARPE: It felt good to be on the other side of the ball, you know in the winning situation to get the jump and everything else. But it was fun at the end of the game.   
 I think we kind of played a little too early, you know, and got in. But we just got back at it, you know. And got it on defense and stuff, but it was pretty nice at the end of the game to jump around, too. So it's pretty fun.   
 ALEX TORRES: Like he said, it's definitely fun and stuff. But I think he we went ahead and did it a little too early. We needed to finish off the game before we started a celebration like that. But it definitely felt good to be in the position that we were in and to be able to celebrate like that.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about this senior class just kind of what describes them the best this year?   
 BRANDON SHARPE: Well, somebody made a quote, you know before the meetings -- was it last night -- about having the inner dog in you, you know. Basically, what we've all seen as seniors this is our last time. We don't have a chance to say, oh, we played them last year, we didn't do so good.   
 So the way we see it, we're a new year. We're a new team. We're going at everybody full speed, you know. No fear at all. We've got to have the nitty-gritty and just eat. Work hard.   
  
  Q. Oklahoma had the second best rushing offense in the Big 12. I think you guys held them to on 27 yards on 25 carries or something like that. What can you say about that?   
 BRANDON SHARPE: That's pretty impressive by our defense. It's not pretty impressive. We work hard, you know. We work hard all week. We work hard all through the season and stuff. We've got to stay on a positive note and feed off of it so we can get ready for the next game to come and stuff.   
 But it was pretty impressive though. Hat's off to the defense and offense today. It was a pretty good victory.   
  
  Q. Do you think quarterbacks should all wear nick now on the back of their jerseys? What have you thought about that?   
 ALEX TORRES: I don't know how that all came about. Just kind of a thing that everyone just laughs about and gives a little sense of humor and uplifts everybody on the team and stuff.   
 I don't know the whole story behind it, but if that's what it takes for him to play the way he played today, he's doing a good job. He's gone through some struggles through the season, but overall I've always had confidence that he's a great quarterback and a great athlete. So I'm impressed with everything he does, especially how he played today.   
  
  Q. Can you describe that 65-yard play, that quick little pass that you got open on? What happened there and also just since you were way over 100 yards today, was there a particular thing that you saw in the Oklahoma defense that you weren't getting open on?   
 ALEX TORRES: Yeah, that whole play just happened to be a great check by pots. He gave me a quick route that told me to get my head around real fast. And like I do in practice and Coach Leach preaches all the time, the receivers coach, Lincoln and Dennis preach all the time. Catch the ball, turn and go straight up field. That's all I did.   
 It wasn't really a special play on my part. All I did was do what I've been coached to to do. It was just a great check by Potts being able to see the defense and read that.   
  
  Q. Can you talk a little bit more about Potts? You said the way he played today, if you could do that every game putting Nick on the back of his jersey, what was so different about him today?   
 ALEX TORRES: I don't think it was necessarily Potts performance. I think it was the unit as a whole, the offense as a whole. Like I said, last week our receiver corps, we were very disappointed in ourselves. We put our offense in terrible situations over and over again last week.   
 So I think it wasn't necessarily just his performance. It's the team being able to have him rely on us in times and be able for us to do our job on every play. Like I said, offensively our offensive line did a tremendous job. Our receiver corps picked it up a lot from last week. So that definitely was able with that, Potts was able to play the way he always plays in practice with the unit performing as a whole.   
 Especially when we get momentum like we did from our defense doing such a good job, I mean, that's really just the tempo and momentum that we need.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about Rajon and what can you say about a guy who is willing to do that?   
 BRANDON SHARPE: That's real nice, you know. Somebody else was supposed to wear Sandy Riley's jersey. But I think it was a late time to ask for it and stuff but it was really an inspiration, you know, just to see him have a heart like that. To share his playing time with another playing on the team. You saw how close we can be, and we are.  
 ALEX TORRES: Like he said, it's one of those things that it's great to see that out there. And I know Nate appreciates it. It kind of goes to show what a family we are as a team and how much we care about one another to be able to give them a shot to see his jersey out there one last time on Senior Day and everything. I thought it was really uplifting, and I hope Nate appreciated that, which I'm sure he does.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT