ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 29, 2010
Ralph Friedgen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


   THE MODERATOR: We now welcome Coach Ralph Friedgen from Maryland. We'll ask for a brief opening statement and then go to questions. Coach.  
 COACH FRIEDGEN: We had a good win last week. And we're preparing to play a Duke team that's very dangerous, has a very good offense. And I'll open it up to questions.   
  
  Q. When you look at film of Duke's offense, Conner Vernon is off to a good start this year at wide receiver, what are you seeing that's making him have so much success?  
 COACH FRIEDGEN: I think they have three very good wide receivers. I think last year he played very well against us. He has good speed. He has good body control. He runs good routes.   
 He's very dangerous. And the quarterback is also very dangerous. So that's a dangerous combination.  
  
  Q. Do you consider that Danny O'Brien is now your starting quarterback, or is it just to sort of clear up that situation there? I know you've had some injuries there, and he certainly responded well for you. But is he your starter?  
 COACH FRIEDGEN: Well, we're going to wait and see what happens later this week. Jamarr's much better than he was last week, but he's still not at full strength. We're just evaluating him on a day-to-day basis. So Danny had a very good game last week, and we hope he continues to grow. But we're not ready to make that call right yet.  
  
  Q. What are the things you like about O'Brien and what he brings to your offense?  
 COACH FRIEDGEN: First of all, he's a very bright kid who also has a tremendous work ethic. And I think he sees the field very well, makes good, quick, fast decisions. And he was very accurate last week.   
 I think he's got a chance to be a very, very good quarterback. He's still a redshirt freshman and every day he's growing and getting better. I think he has a bright future.  
  
  Q. If people begin to start kicking the ball out of bounds to prevent your punt returners from taking it back, how do you teach great returners to maintain the level of intensity necessary under the off chance that someone does kick it in fact so they can return it?  
 COACH FRIEDGEN: We haven't had that problem yet. But if Danny keeps -- I mean, if Tony keeps playing the way he is, I'm sure that's going to happen. And that's not as easy as it sounds. A lot of times when you kick it out of bounds you don't get the length that you want on the kick.   
 So our main purpose is to establish field position, and I think Tony has done a very good job of that. And eventually I think they'll have to kick to him.  
  
  Q. I just wanted to check on Torrey Smith. I saw that looked like he kind of tweaked his ankle. And then went back in and had that big touchdown catch as soon as he got into the end zone and started limping. How is he feeling this week?  
 COACH FRIEDGEN: He's been limited in practice. But we anticipate him playing. It's more of a thing that hurts him when he slows down. But we're hoping he'll be ready to practice today or tomorrow, and we'll have to see. He didn't practice yesterday.  
  
  Q. What does that say to you about the kind of kid that he is? His character, that obviously hurting but still went out there and trying to get it done for the team?  
 COACH FRIEDGEN: Well, I think I've been on the record of how much I believe in this young man and think of him. Not only as a football player, but as a person.   
 And I think he's definitely a team player. And I showed some of the highlights of our film to our team the other day, and I didn't show his touchdown pass, I showed his block that he had for Da'Rel; that he actually had the main block that sprung him for the touchdown.   
 So Torrey's just an understanding person, and he's going to do very well in life.   
  
  Q. Just wonder what your impressions are of Duke's passing game; that you watched them on tape with a good, young quarterback and looks like receivers that almost come out of the stands. They've really got a fleet of receivers. And what your defensive challenges are against them?  
 COACH FRIEDGEN: First of all, they've got two quarterbacks. But Renfree, he's a big, strong kid, gets the ball out quick and he's got three receivers to get it to. Caused us problems last year in the rain. And I know David does a great job with quarterbacks and with the passing game.   
 And I have just been impressed with their ability to spread the ball around evenly and get it to the open guy. And they can get it to him pretty quickly. That usually results in a pretty good passing attack.  
  
  Q. Could you tell us how you came about recruiting O'Brien, and when you first saw him and what sold him on Maryland?  
 COACH FRIEDGEN: Actually, I think it came down to Duke and Maryland. And I think Danny's step dad went to Duke. So we really recruit nationally for quarterbacks just like Duke does. And we were very impressed with Danny, not only as a player, but because he was a very good student also. The thing we got to learn more and more about Danny was what a great work ethic he had.  
 You don't usually find that in kids that are very athletic and very bright. And so he really has the whole package. And I think he's going to develop and be a very, very good quarterback.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thanks for being with us.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT