ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 8, 2010
Ralph Friedgen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


   THE MODERATOR: We now welcome Maryland head football coach Ralph Friedgen. Well ask for a brief opening statement, then go to questions.   
 COACH FRIEDGEN: Well, we're busily preparing for Morgan State on a short week. Just finished the game the other day. Got a lot of work to do in a short amount of time.   
 I'll open it up for questions.   
  
  Q. Ralph, I'm sure you probably wanted to control the clock and run the ball against Navy, but did you want to pass it more in that game? Tell me what's going on with your quarterback situation in the passing game there.   
 COACH FRIEDGEN: Well, I think, yeah, we obviously wanted to throw the ball more. We were running the ball pretty well. I think when we got the ball down and through the interception, I think we got a little bit tentative about doing that.   
 We feel very confident in our ability to throw the football. I think we have a lot of weapons to throw it to. I think that will happen as time goes on.   
  
  Q. Is Jamarr still your guy? Did you go back and look at that decision to put Danny in at the time that you did?  
 COACH FRIEDGEN: Obviously, the fact that it resulted in a fumble, you can always second guess yourself. But we still have a lot of confidence in Danny. I think we're going to play both of them. I wouldn't be surprised if we started playing C.J. Brown some, too. We think we have some very talented quarterbacks and one of the big things they don't have right now is experience.   
 We don't look at it as a negative thing as far as Jamarr is concerned. We're very pleased with him. But we also think we have some other people that can play also. We're trying to get everybody some experience and grow as a team.   
  
  Q. Coach, you guys just defended 82 plays on Monday. Now you have to play Saturday. Because of the extreme amount of time there on the field, does this week resemble sort of the old days when you could be forced to play on a Saturday and then the subsequent Thursday?   
 COACH FRIEDGEN: Right, it's definitely a situation that requires some real thought, especially not only that our defense played 82 plays, they were 82 grueling plays. It was a hard-fought game, really a war. In actuality, yesterday's Tuesday, but in our physical standpoint, for our players, it was Sunday, which they normally have a day off.   
 So we came in and basically I had the players, we met for an hour, and half of them stretched, took hot showers, cold baths, tried to get some of the lactic acid out of the system, then we went out and walked through for about an hour, then I ran them a little bit at the end.   
 Today we'll have a very good practice. On the back end, it's Thursday tomorrow. We've really had one day of practicing against Morgan State. It's a question of how much you do tomorrow, which normally Thursday is about an hour and 15 minute practice. I want to see how we do today as to what we do tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Coach, how do you explain your team's ability to deal with that many red zone situations and to stop them five out of seven times?   
 COACH FRIEDGEN: Well, I said in my press conference after the game, I couldn't have been more proud of our kids, how they fought, how they played. I think Navy is an exceptional football team. I think that will go on and have a very successful season.   
 Some of Navy's stoppages were self-inflicted, some were caused by us. We benefited from some good breaks and others we hung in there and created some breaks for ourselves, too.   
 The biggest thing I'm proud about our team is they never let down, they just kept competing, found a way to win the football game. We lost a lot of tough ones like that last year, were able to punch through. I'm hoping this will give our team some confidence and let us really grow as a football team.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thanks for being with us, coach. Good luck this weekend. We'll talk to you next week.   
 COACH FRIEDGEN: Thanks.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT