ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 1, 2010
Ralph Friedgen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


   THE MODERATOR: We now welcome Maryland head football coach, Ralph Friedgen, ask for a brief opening statement and then go to questions. 
 COACH FRIEDGEN: Hello, everybody. We are busily preparing for Navy, very good football team, has been very successful of late, and we have got a heck of a challenge on our hands. I open it for questions. 

 Q. Can you talk about the challenges of facing that Navy offense and kind of the unique challenges and how you've been preparing for them this week?
 COACH FRIEDGEN: They have a great quarterback in rookie Dobbs, who has had 27 touchdowns last year, rushed for over 1,200 yards. And he's a very good passer, also, so that complicates the matters, with two good fullbacks and very talented wing and slot back. 
 So they do an excellent job of running the offense. They are very physical up front and very quick, very athletic. So just getting used to the various plays that they run the various options, and also the speed at which they run them is the most difficult part. 
 We have been working very hard to defend those. 

 Q. Jamarr Robinson, what do you like about his abilities, or how much have you changed the offense at all to maybe fit his talents, anything like that? 
 COACH FRIEDGEN: Well, I think we are going to have much more mobile quarterbacks this year. I think Jamarr, one of the better things he does is run with the football but he also has a very strong arm. So there are certain things that we can feature with his ability to run, and Danny O'Brien has the ability to run and so does C.J. Brown. 
 Obviously we are going to try to play to our strengths and accentuate what he can do. 

 Q. Also, how has Da'Rel Scott looked? Does he seem to be back in full stride? 
 COACH FRIEDGEN: Yeah, Da'Rel and David Meggett have been playing the best football they have since they have been here and we are also very impressed with D.J. Adams, who is a young redshirt freshman who has come along. All three of those backs will play on Monday. 

 Q. With regards to defending the option, having covered Navy for a while, I've seen great defenders disrupt this offense. Do you feel -- people talk about Dobbs as the Navy quarterback, but do you feel you have a guy in Wujciak, the middle linebacker, who could really cause Navy some problems, being as great a defender as he is? 
 COACH FRIEDGEN: You know, I think everybody has to fulfill their role in defending the option. That's what makes it so tough. I don't think one guy is going to stop. You know, in the Iowa, the two defensive ends, defending Georgia Tech was very disruptive. I think it's easier for probably a down lineman to be disruptive than a linebacker because he has certain responsibilities that he has to fulfill versus this offense. 
 So, yeah, I'm hoping that Wujciak is a big factor, but I think everybody else has to be a factor, also.
 THE MODERATOR: Thanks for being with us. Good luck this weekend. We'll look forward to talking to you next week.




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT