OKLAHOMA CITY THUNDER MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 23, 2016
Ersan Ilyasova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What's been the message from Coach Donovan on what your role is going to be with the team?
ERSAN ILYASOVA: So far we have a couple conversations, when I came after the physicals, after the trade, and I want to be straightforward with him as far as how they see me as part of the team.  And he's kind of try to explain himself how he sees me as part of the moving forward; that I would be much helpful concentration, just kind of open up the floor for the players we have here.
And I think when I see myself in here, it's always kind of bring the energy because some days, you're not going to have -- you're going to have those lines -- and not going to go in for you.  But it's a lot of those things we can do in the basketball game, and I remember myself, just always play hard no matter what and bring a lot of energy.
Q. Serge was a guy that provided that stretch, bringing the game to the three-point line; is that something you want to bring to the team, your three-point shooting?
ERSAN ILYASOVA: I never compared myself to someone, a lot of players.  But obviously everybody had have strengths and different things in the way they play basketball.
So far how I play, like I said, you know, just give the ability to stretch the floor and pick up the system with my 3-point shot -- give guys who operate, especially Russell with his speed and ability to pass the ball, I think it's going to be really effective.
Q. As an opponent to Russell Westbrook, what were your impressions of Russell Westbrook as an opponent and now in the short time that you've been teammates, have your impressions changed at all?
ERSAN ILYASOVA: I mean, he's one of those guys who is playing hard no matter what.  Obviously playing against him and the Oklahoma Thunder, you always have to expect they will play tough with a lot of energy.  They lock you up.
Obviously me in my situation, try to guard him in the pick-and-roll defense is almost impossible.  And hopefully for myself, can try to build on it.  You could have some mismatched situations, he can explode; he can beat whatever.  Guys are going to switch on him.
Q. There's been a lot of speculation about your role as being one that won't be as significant to some people are saying expectations of starter.  Can you comment on what you're hoping and expecting?
ERSAN ILYASOVA: For me, it never was an issue, if I won't be starter or not.  The way I look, you know, playing time, whatever -- the time I'm on the floor, I try to do my best, and obviously if you do some, produce the best thing for the team, you deserve the playing time.  This is the way I look at it.
Like I said, with me it's not about the shot.  I never believed it, because like I said, basketball, it's all about wanting and you're going to have some nights where you're not going to make shots.  But one of those things, not much you can do, just be more aggressive defensively.  I'm not the most defensive guy out there but always try to do my best, because in this league, I don't believe somebody can guard one-on-one.  It has to be always five guys on the right page.  That's why you call defensive team.  We have to be in the right spot and the same page.  I think those teams will be successful during the season.
Q. So training camp starts tomorrow but you guys have kind of been working out already a little bit, mostly as a team.  How has that helped you, considering you haven't been on this team with a lot of these guys before?  How has that helped you integrating into the team with training camp and the season starting?
ERSAN ILYASOVA: This is one of those things I was kind of try to come up early, even before the preseason starts, training camp starts.  I was here like two weeks early, just kind of meet the guys.  Just kind of get myself into it because you know, when you come out with a new team, new organizations will take time to kind of adjust to it.
It's why when you come out, you don't speed up the process.  I come a little bit early, start work out and to be honest, the organization people who work so hard, so farther great.  I already feel like I was here more than like those two weeks.  I already feel like a home, hopefully moving forward, it's going to be the same thing.
Q. How has it been with Enes, being a fellow Turkey native?
ERSAN ILYASOVA: I've known Enes for a long time, as soon as I started playing from junior team and stuff.  I played with him, I never played on the same team but we played once for the national team.  I would say it's European Championship, one year I played with him.  He's a great guy.
Obviously a really skilled guy.  He finds his way into the league.  Obviously he's a very good post-up player, plays tough all the time.  My relationship has always kind of be on the same page with him.  Like I said, he's a great teammate and I'm happy to be on the same team.
Q. Having a coach like Adrian Griffin who was with you in Milwaukee and also Orlando, does it help you?
ERSAN ILYASOVA: For sure.  Just see some face, familiar face.  Because in the last year, a lot of change to the teams, when you go, it's a lot of new faces.  But when you see somebody who is like old face, you just go and talk to him.  We have common things, obviously being in Milwaukee for three years with him, kind of he knows what to expect from me.  He kind of give me that extra motivation when you need it.
Q. What did he help with you in Milwaukee?
ERSAN ILYASOVA: When he was coach with Milwaukee, I just came from overseas.  I played in Barcelona and I just came, kind of was again, kind of was tough transition from European to NBA kind of basketball, and he was, you know, up there, because he was playing.
I remember I played against him when there was a player my rookie year, and he knows, just be in the right place and the things you should react or not kind of -- because sometimes you're going to have 82 games, you're going to have a lot of thoughts, up and down, and he kind of give that you extra motivation.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT