WNBA FINALS: SPARKS VS LYNX
October 1, 2017
Rebekkah Brunson
Sylvia Fowles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Lynx - 80, Sparks - 69   
 Q.  Sylvia, yesterday when we talked you said you guys needed to let Game 3 burn and it needed to hurt so you to remember that for Game 4.  Is that what it felt like tonight?  
SYLVIA FOWLES: Most definitely.  We didn't like how Game 3 ended for us, and we just wanted to come out and set the tempo and set the tone, and for the five that was out there, we wanted to make sure we had high energy, and I think Brunson set the tone from the start, and we pretty much just followed her lead.   
 Q.  Sylvia, at the shoot-around the other day, you and I talked about the maturity of both teams, and now both teams are in a Game 5.  The maturity of you guys' game, do you feel like it's an advantage being back home or does it matter where you guys play?  
SYLVIA FOWLES: Advantage, no.  We're back at Game 5.  But we want to make sure we come out and we play well while we're home, and we want to make sure we take care of business.   
 Q.  I'm wondering if you want to make a comment about your fans; despite the distance there was a pretty healthy cheering section there for you, Minnesota.  
REBEKKAH BRUNSON: Yeah, we appreciate it.  We love it.  They've been rolling with us all year.  They're always there.  They travel.  This isn't the first time they've come on the road with us, so we really appreciate everything that they do for us.  I mean, it was nice to feel them tonight.   
 Q.  Rebekkah, do you think it's accurate to say that you felt like maybe in the first part of the series you hadn't done enough and you needed to come out and do more tonight?  
REBEKKAH BRUNSON: I absolutely felt like I needed to bring more energy tonight, and I was hoping that my team would be able to feed off of that.  I think that I just need to continue to go out there and be aggressive and play hard.   
 Q.  Sylvia, it seemed like you had a lot of problems getting touches in Game 3.  That seemed to change in Game 4.  What plan was different, or what did you do that was different?  
SYLVIA FOWLES: Just making sure I give my guards a better target and my post players when they're out there on the wing, just give them a good outlet so they can see me so I can get more touches.  I think that's the difference between Game 3 and Game 4.   
 Q.  When you look at that 48-28 rebounding disparity, what exactly went into why you guys were so dominant on the boards tonight?  
REBEKKAH BRUNSON: I think throughout this series, we kind of understand that rebounding is key.  It's a huge part of both teams' identities, and we know that we wanted to set the tone with that.   
 Q.  This team is familiar with a Game 5 experience.  What lessons do you draw on from last year in preparing for this year's Finals?  
SYLVIA FOWLES: Just make sure we're ready for the start.  We know it's a 40-minute game, and throughout the game it's going to be highs and lows, so we just want to make sure we're all on the same page as a unit and making sure we treat each other well when the lows are too low.   
REBEKKAH BRUNSON: Nothing is guaranteed.  It doesn't matter where you're playing, but you just have to go out there and be prepared for anything to happen.  You never really know what's going to happen out there, so you just have to go out there and leave it all out there.  We've been in this situation.  We were in this last year, so it's pretty familiar, but we just have to go out there and play.   
 Q.  Sylvia, what did you make of Whalen's flagrant foul against Odyssey Sims, and you guys really seemed to sort of feed off that.  Did you recognize that, and what did you think about the way you guys played after that?  
SYLVIA FOWLES: It's just the heat of the moment.  If you know Whay, she don't mean any harm.  She's very dramatic, and that's how she gets us going.  If that's what it took, then that's what it took.  I mean, I think it was positive energy after that, and she got us going.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT