WNBA FINALS: SPARKS VS LYNX
October 9, 2016
Sylvia Fowles
Lindsay Whalen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Sparks - 78, Lynx - 76
Q. Syl, can you kind of take us through that last defensive possession when Alana hits the shot to win it?  What did you kind of see and how much pressure was put on that defense with the penetration that allowed her to sneak into the corner?
SYLVIA FOWLES: I think we were more so worried about not letting anyone get to the hole.  I'm not sure exactly what happened on that last play to make her get wide open.  But we learned from this.  We go back and we watch film, and we've got another game to play on Tuesday.
Q. Lindsay, Alana was all over the place, kind of wreaking havoc in crunch time.
LINDSAY WHALEN: Yeah, she did great.  She hit the shot.  She made some great plays.  She's a great player.  Give her credit; she had a lot of energy, and she made some big plays.
Q. Lindsay, the turnovers in the first half, do you feel like kind of that maybe prevented you from maybe getting a little bit bigger lead and getting more control of the game?
LINDSAY WHALEN: You know, a big part of it is being able to take care of the ball, getting good shots.  We'll have to just have a concerted effort on that part, and give them credit for their defense.  They did great, and obviously we'll watch and see what we can do better for Tuesday.
Q. Syl, the offense was a little bit out of sorts most of the game; ball movement wasn't as crisp as usual.  Was that something LA was doing?  How do you clean that up for the next game?
SYLVIA FOWLES: You can't take anything away from LA.  I think they made us play a bit fast today, which is out of our norm, but it's something that you learn from.  I think we did better in the second half, and we just keep pushing from here.
Q. How do you get Maya going earlier in the game going into Game 2?  She was held scoreless in the first half today.
LINDSAY WHALEN: I thought Maya came out, was making good plays.  I think she kind of let things come to her.  She found Syl a couple times early.  I thought she was reading the defense and making the right decisions.
You know, obviously they're focused a lot on Maya, so she's got a lot on her, but I thought she came out, and she was really facilitating really well early, and then she got it going in the second half.  I know she'll be -- she was ready for tonight, and she'll be ready for Game 2.
Q. Lindsay, the veteran group that you have, you've been here before; you've lost on your home court before in The Finals.  Is there a calmness now?  Do you just know that it's still a long series?
LINDSAY WHALEN: Yeah, it is.  Obviously we're -- we've got to look at what we can do better tonight from today, but yeah, it's a long series, like you said.  It's one game.  We were in this position last year.  You know, you regroup, you see what you can do to recover and get back for Tuesday night.  Yeah, like you said, we have a group that's been together for a long time and been a part of a lot of these, so that will be our focus, and we know they're going to come out in Game 2 -- it's two really good teams.  It's the Finals.  It's what you expect.  They got Game 1, they hit a great shot, made some good plays.  We've got to come back for Game 2.
Q. This is the first year that you've got two Western Conference teams playing one another in the Finals.  Do you like the new format, and what's your experience with that been?
SYLVIA FOWLES: It's different, two Western teams that dominate throughout the whole regular season.  I don't think it's a fluke that we're here now in the Finals.  I'm loving this new format, and hopefully we can just get better from here, and hopefully it works in our favor for the years to come.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT