WNBA FINALS: FEVER v LYNX
October 6, 2015
Sylvia Fowles
Maya Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Indiana Fever - 71
  Minnesota Lynx - 77 
   
 Q. Tonight second chance points were 21‑8 in your favor. How determined were you guys to turn that number around and really assert yourself in the paint this time?   
SYLVIA FOWLES: Just lock in and know we wanted to get our points in the paint, that's where we want to be, and just having faith in our teammates that we can get it done.  
   
 Q. For both of you, did you want to make this a physical game?   
MAYA MOORE: We want to do what we want to do. If that means being physical, it means being physical. We definitely tried to make a great effort to be the aggressor, and obviously that's going to be the goal of both teams to be the aggressor. But I thought we were able to do that for longer stretches tonight.  
   
 Q. To either one of you, Cheryl was talking about the execution down the stretch. Was it a function of good defense or was there something else going on?   
SYLVIA FOWLES: I think Seimone Augustus, Anna Cruz, and (No Audio).  
   
 Q. Sylvia, in the first half you were really pounding the paint. And in this series overall you've been successful down there. What do you credit to this start of yours?   
SYLVIA FOWLES: From having the sluggish start the first game played a big factor. And my teammates just having faith in me and just getting me the ball when I need it and where I need it to be to be successful.  
   
 Q. The series now reverts over to Indiana. What can we see out of you guys on Friday?   
MAYA MOORE: First two games, so it's set up to be a very entertaining Game 3. It will be a dog fight just like it has been these first two games. It's set up to be a very entertaining Game 3 with both teams very hungry. I think after the horn blew both teams were still wanting to go. We're ready to go for Game 3.  
   
 Q. The intensity, you were very animated throughout the game. How much did that intensity help you guys on the defensive end, especially in the second half?   
MAYA MOORE: It's huge. We're connected. We're invested. Everyone focused, communicating, people coming in off the bench doing the same thing, increasing the level of energy even. Playing hard and stick together and end up making our own breaks. You see that emotion from us. Yeah, you probably have some pretty entertaining pictures from tonight because we were pretty animated.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT