NHL STANLEY CUP FINAL: SHARKS v PENGUINS
June 12, 2016
Peter DeBoer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. Obviously every game is important. Are you feeling more pressure knowing that the Cup is actually in the building?
COACH DeBOER: No more pressure. It was in the building last game. We can't win it tonight. It doesn't put any more pressure on us than we've had throughout the playoff. 
We just got to come in and take care of business. We got a confident group. We feel we can push this to a Game 7. 

Q. We heard some stories from the guys in the locker room talking about Martin Jones being different than most goalies, that he's really part of the group. How have you noticed him being different than most goalies?
COACH DeBOER: Part of the group in that he's a normal guy (laughter), unlike a lot of goalies? 

Q. Yes. 
COACH DeBOER: Yeah, I mean, he is just one of the guys. You wouldn't know. There's no quirkiness to him. He doesn't seem to have any rituals, really highs and lows. 
He comes in, got a smile on his face. He does his job. You wouldn't know the bad days from the good days. I think that's the beauty of him. 
He comes out, has had some tough starts, too, this year, as well as some excellent ones. The next day you wouldn't know whether he pitched a shutout or lit up. He's been great. 

Q. Anything with Hertl? Has he been on the ice at all? Will he be on the ice tonight?
COACH DeBOER: Hertl is making progress, getting better every day. Won't play tonight, no.

Q. Last time you were in this building you lost, but you held Pittsburgh to 20 shots. How much did being at home help that aspect of the game?
COACH DeBOER: I think being at home helped part of it. But I think it was more our mindset. We got away from it last game. We allowed them to funnel pucks to the net. That's what they do. I thought we did a great job, probably the best game of the series where we've done a good job of denying them funneling those pucks to the net. 
We've got to get back to that. We have to help Jonesy out. Even if those aren't quality shots, it creates action in our net, it creates some chaos. 
That's what they're looking to do. We've got to put a stop to that.

Q. Do you feel you have done a little bit better job each game establishing a forecheck? Do you think this long playoff run has helped the young guys in their development so far?
COACH DeBOER: As far as the forecheck and offensive zone time, I think it's been spurts, it hasn't been consistent enough for where we want it to be, expect it to be. You have to give them some credit for that. But we can also do a better job. I'm assuming tonight will be our best game in that department. 
As far as experience for the young guys, again, I think as a coach you don't really look at birth certificates. You look at guys that you think can help you win the game. 
Our guys don't play like young guys. The young guys that play like young guys aren't here. They're down in the American League or in the stands. The guys that are in the lineup that are contributing for us because they play like veterans. You wouldn't know the situation or that they're young players. 

Q. Your lack of power play opportunities, is that a product of the time of year? Is there something you want your team to do?
COACH DeBOER: I think it's a couple things. I think obviously if you have the puck more, if you're attacking more, you're creating more of those opportunities. I don't think there's any doubt, too, that this time of year the teams get to play a little bit more. I think that's historically been the mindset. 
It's a little bit of both. 
Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT