NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: SHARKS v BLUES
May 22, 2016
Peter DeBoer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Questions. 

Q. After reviewing the tape and all, anything stand out that you didn't initially know watching it firsthand? 
COACH DeBOER: We got to be better in all areas. Pretty simple. 

Q. After the game yesterday, Tommy was saying that everything was very fixable. Is that the way you see it?
COACH DeBOER: Yeah, absolutely. It's all fixable, you know. 
We've got to be better, like I said, in all areas. I'm sure we will be. 

Q. Why do you think you are so good responding after losses like this?
COACH DeBOER: I think we've got a smart group that takes a lot of pride in their game, in their identity as a hard team to play against. 
When we step out of that box, we usually don't get rewarded. Usually don't deserve to get rewarded. That's what happened. We tend to get it back quickly because of that. 

Q. After playing a game like that, so out of character, is it frustration or just the desire to get back out and rectify?
COACH DeBOER: You'd have to ask them. 
But I think, based on my dealings with them through the year, when we've had some games like this, they're a little pissed off, I think. You know, missed opportunity. They want to make it right. 

Q. Talking about generating the edge when it's 2‑2 now. Easier to have more edge naturally?
COACH DeBOER: Sure, it should be. You know, there's not an excuse for not having an edge this time of year. The finish line is too close. 
That's not the reason we lost. I think even if we didn't have the same edge as St.Louis, if we had executed and played more to our identity, we still would have had a chance to win. But we didn't do that. 

Q. Pretty obvious question, but special teams have played a huge role in the first four games. Is that the way you see it for the last three, if you win special teams, you win the game?
COACH DeBOER: I don't think it's that simple. In the 3‑0 game, there was no special teams. It was a five‑on‑five goal. So I don't think it's as simple as that. They're obviously critical, there's no doubt about that. I don't think it's as simple as if you win the special teams, you win the game. 

Q. Considering any change‑ups, lineups, lines, moving forward?
COACH DeBOER: You know what, we've played some really good hockey in the last two or three weeks. I think we can fix it without having to take those type of measures. 
But those things are always in play. We'll sleep on it and make some decisions tomorrow. 

Q. Karlsson, Tierney and Wingels had some good chemistry going into the third period. Is that something you'll go back to?
COACH DeBOER: We were shuffling the deck trying to get something going. I don't know if that's something we'll continue with.

Q. Is Nieto still progressing and an option in Game 5?
COACH DeBOER: Getting better. I'll let you know tomorrow morning. 

Q. Would it be tough to kind of throw him in here at this point in the series?
COACH DeBOER: Not if he's healthy, no. 

Q. Third period, far behind, the game changes. Was it important to play better with more energy? 
COACH DeBOER: I think it reinforces when we play the right way, we'll get rewarded. That was the one period of the game we started to play the right way. 

Q. You and Hitch, did you coach together on the 2011 world championship team?
COACH DeBOER: Yeah.

Q. What was it like coaching with him?
COACH DeBOER: A great learning experience. He's a very interesting guy, both in the hockey world, but also to talk to about other things. 
He's very passionate about the game. It was a great coaching experience for me to be around him and that staff for a month.

Q. What did you learn from him?
COACH DeBOER: I mean, all kinds of things. We shared all kinds of things. I don't have any specifics. 

Q. Is it a little bit of gamesmanship between you guys going back and forth? Do you have a relationship nowadays?
COACH DeBOER: Who has a relationship in the Stanley Cup semifinals? 
Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT