NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: SHARKS v BLUES
May 21, 2016
Peter DeBoer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
   
 Q. They announced they're going with Jake Allen. Does the fact they announced it a day in advance, how does that affect your preparation at all? Does it help knowing that early?   
COACH DeBOER: We went into the series expecting to see both guys. The way they played their goalies this year suggested we'd probably see both guys, so we prepared for both guys.   
It doesn't change anything on our end.   
   
 Q. Understanding what you just said, the fact that Jake is a little more active, does play the puck, does that change anything in terms of facing a team with a goalie who plays that style?  
COACH DeBOER: Well, we played Quick and Rinne in the first two rounds, arguably two of the probably top three puck handlers in the league. Nothing we haven't seen before.   
I think both goalies have their strengths. It's pick your poison. They're both excellent goalies. We know they're going to get good goaltending tonight. Whether it was Elliott or Allen, we have to be prepared to play our game and get to either one of them.   
   
 Q. The way Hitchcock explained it yesterday, it seems more than anything he's trying to disrupt your rhythm. He says you guys are 'dialed in' and playing so well. Can changing a goalie do that?   
COACH DeBOER: We'll see four or five hours from now (laughter).   
I don't know what Hitch‑‑ I don't want to comment on why Hitch is doing things, what he's trying to do, his game plan.   
We're worried about what we're doing. I like how we're playing. We got to continue to keep our foot on the gas.  
   
 Q. I know this isn't the best timing for this question, but here you are. A couple times we've talked about Patty Marleau and the different places he's been. How is your relationship? He says the relationship is fine. He thinks this story is overblown. How would you describe your relationship with Patty?  
COACH DeBOER: What story is that?   
   
 Q. On whether he prefers to play center on the third line or wing on the second line.   
COACH DeBOER: I mean, I've never had a relationship problem with Patty Marleau. I didn't know that that story, I guess, inferred that there was one. There never has been one in my mind and there isn't one. There's no substance to that at all in my mind.   
   
 Q. The Blues said they like their fourth line, some of the changes Hitch made. Did you feel they had an impact on the game? How do you feel your fourth line has played in the series so far?  
COACH DeBOER: I love our four lines' game. I liked it the whole series. Like a lot of teams do with the lead, you take your foot off the gas, sit back a little. I think that opened the door for them to create a little bit of energy with their group.   
So for us it's to get back to where we were for most of that game the other night. That's the priority. But I've said all along, I like our four lines.   
   
 Q. I read some of your comments about the 16 shots. Was that more a factor of you passing them up or did the Blues have something to do with that?  
COACH DeBOER: I thought we created a good amount of zone time, a good amount of looks, a good amount of opportunities.   
We passed up some shots. They blocked some shots. We had some grade A opportunities, two‑on‑ones, where we missed the net.   
I thought we didn't get as many point shots as we typically do in a game. There was a couple reasons for that that I think we've corrected.   
I anticipate we're going to have more pucks to the net tonight.   
Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT