NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: SHARKS v BLUES
May 19, 2016
Peter DeBoer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Questions. 

Q. (No microphone.)
COACH DeBOER: No. 

Q. (No microphone.)
COACH DeBOER: Absolutely. I also think we can play better, too. I think we're starting to find our rhythm. I think our game has been consistently good. 
But I think we have another level, too, we can get to. I think that's a job coaches are looking for every morning, is you're never totally satisfied with how things went. You're always looking to find another gear. 

Q. (No microphone.)
COACH DeBOER: Well, I think you used the word 'execute.' I think it's execution. There's no secrets in this game. I think everybody for the most part is trying to play the same way and do the same things. 
It's the players getting out there and getting it done. I think the fact we've come through a heavy, heavy team like L.A. and had to deal with that I think has helped us. 
Nashville was much heavier and harder than people give them credit for. You look at their lineup and you might not think that, but they really were. They gave us all we could handle. 
I can only speak for our game, I can't speak for Hitch's game, but I know we're in the place we're in now because of some of the opponents we've played. 

Q. (No microphone.)
COACH DeBOER: Yeah, I used the word prior to this series, I feel we have a battle‑tested group. I think Paul Martin is one of those guys. He's been in the playoffs, deep in the playoffs, seen almost every situation there is in the playoffs.
We have quite a few of those type of guys. I think that gives us a composure that maybe some other teams don't have. 

Q. Was there anything specific you did to try to get better at home? What is your confidence level coming back here 1‑1?
COACH DeBOER: Well, we own that home record. There's no hiding from that. I also think there's some factors that play into that. 
I think you have to look a little deeper than just the record. Our record at home against good teams has been pretty good all year. Even the games we've lost at home, I think we've played pretty good games. 
Our record coming back from road trips was like 1‑7‑1. That's not to make excuses, but we're the best road team in the league, and you come home, you know, traveling the most travel in the league, and there's an effect there. That's real. 
We own it. There's no hiding from that record. I also think it's a little bit overblown. Our group's always been comfortable and confident that we can win at home. There was never any time, regardless of how much you wrote about it or talked about it, that we ever felt rattled about our home record. 
I think there was a real confidence there that we could win when the chips were down, and the guys have shown that. 

Q. (No microphone.)
COACH DeBOER: No, it's never been brought up. We moved them halfway through the year over here. We've never been asked to move them back over there, no. 

Q. (No microphone.)
COACH DeBOER: Routines are critical. I mean, I don't know why that would change. I think our guys are comfortable here. We like working out of here. I think it works for us. 
Yeah, I don't see that changing. 

Q. (No microphone.)
COACH DeBOER: Yeah, I think the referees have done a good job. Again, I haven't had any complaints on the referee. I was just pointing out facts. Facts are St.Louis takes penalties, they take a lot of them, they have all year. That's a fact just like shots and power play percentages and every other analytic out there. 
It was not a knock on refereeing. I think the refereeing has been exceptional in the series. The point was that they do that and we have to make them pay on the power play when they do. We did that last game. 

Q. (No microphone.)
COACH DeBOER: Well, we're not going there. That's not even an option. 
He is definitely a Norris Trophy candidate. He has the ability, could be an All‑Star if he played forward. Shows how special an athlete he is. 
He's a defenseman, and in my mind, he's if not the best defenseman in the league in that conversation, and that's where he's going to stay. 

Q. Where can you guys improve in how you play the game?
COACH DeBOER: There's always areas you can improve. You know, again, I think they're going to throw some different things at us. How quickly we adjust to that tonight. We have to be ready for that, prepared for that. 
Again, it was a good game. I think the third period, we gave up a little bit too much. I thought our penalty killing was good and Jonesy was good. There are still some quality looks there, especially on the power play they got, that we can clean up a little bit. 
Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT