NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: KINGS v DEVILS
June 6, 2012
Peter DeBoer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions.   
   
 Q.   Do you have any idea why your team has been 4‑8 in the first three games of this series and 8‑1?  
COACH DeBOER:   You know what, I don't know.   I don't have an explanation for that.   You know, I haven't found a significant jump in our play in the second half of series.   I just think we find a way to get everything clicking, where early in the series some things haven't worked.   That speaks in all three series that we played in.   
I think we, as a group, have done a good job of recognizing what's working and what isn't working against certain teams, kind of fixing it as the series has gone on.   Obviously, that's the same thing here.   
   
 Q.   You talked about fixing.   How are you going to make the Kings uncomfortable, especially Jonathan Quick?  
COACH DeBOER:   We've got to score.   We've got to try to grab some momentum.   We haven't had the lead in a game.   We haven't obviously won a game.   We have to try to find a way to grab some momentum here early.   
There's no secret formula to it.   We've got to get shots, traffic.   I've said all along we're creating as many quality scoring chances as we had in prior series.   It's not like we're getting shut down in the scoring‑chance department, we just have to stick one in the net.   He's got all the answers right now.   
   
 Q.   We asked you about speeches, if you say anything to your team.   Do you say anything differently today?   How do you keep them positive going into this game, motivated?  
COACH DeBOER:   This is a great opportunity for us.   I mean, we can be the first team in a long time to climb out of this hole in this situation.   As our general manager said, there's 28 other teams sitting at home that would love to jump into this spot, even the hole we're in, and take a shot at trying to win this thing.   
It's a great opportunity for us and it starts with one win.   
   
 Q.   Lineup tonight, Sykora?  
COACH DeBOER:   We're going to put Sykora in tonight and Tallinder.   
   
 Q.   Who comes out for Tallinder?  
COACH DeBOER:   Harrold.   
   
 Q.   You talk about you have done a good job of identifying flaws or weaknesses in other teams, exposing them.   Have you found anything in the Kings you can exploit?  
COACH DeBOER:   We think we can I mean, I'm not going to get into details.   Like I said, we're creating enough chances.   I believe we're tight enough defensively that we can easily start winning some games.   
There's not major changes we need to make here.   Obviously the biggest one is we need to find a way to get some goals.   Whether that's five‑on‑five, power play, a combination of both, that's the story so far.  
   
 Q.   Your top guys haven't scored in this series.   Are you saying anything to them, giving them any kind of encouragement?  
COACH DeBOER:   If they weren't getting opportunities, it would be one thing.   They are getting opportunities.   They know the situation they're in.   They deal with that pressure every day.   That's what they get paid for.   
You don't pile on when guys are in this situation.   They're working for their opportunities.   The opportunities are there.   They just have to bury one and I think the gates will open.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about going to Tallinder now, what's the reasoning behind that?   How difficult is it to take Peter Harrold out at this point?  
COACH DeBOER:   Peter Harrold played great, gave us some good minutes.   
The reality is Tallinder was a top‑two defenseman for us, was all year.   He's been out for a long time.   This is the first time in the last four or five days where we felt in practice that he was up to game speed and a legitimate option.   
We considered it after Game2, but our group I thought had played such a good game that I didn't want to change it then.   But now it seems appropriate.   
   
 Q.   Who is out for Sykora?  
COACH DeBOER:   Josefson is out.   
   
 Q.   Do you think by far Game3 was the worst game that the team played in the series so far?  
COACH DeBOER:   No, not at all.   I don't care what the scoreboard says.   We generated enough chances to win that game.   The last two goals in the third period, the game's over at that point.   That's a winnable game for us.   We played well enough to win.   
That first goal against changes the momentum of the game.   We still battled through.   We generated enough to win.   We played a solid hockey game.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT