NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: KINGS v DEVILS
June 5, 2012
Peter DeBoer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Coach DeBoer. 

Q.   When we talked to you last night, you were hoping to get an explanation with the first goal scored against you last night.   Did you ever receive one? 
COACH DeBOER:   I didn't get one.   I didn't ask for one.   I mean, I guess you have an opportunity on the ice, right, for the referee to come over and explain to you the thought process.   That was the opportunity I did not get.   I didn't pursue one after the game. 
I think it's pretty evident to me after re‑looking at it that it shouldn't have counted.   It was a critical time in the game.   So it's unfortunate. 

Q.   Do you go into a game like this thinking desperation or do you just think game plan? 
COACH DeBOER:   Yeah, no, you know, your desperation level is high.   You're in the Stanley Cup Final.   I don't think there's a way of heightening the desperation level. 
We're down 3‑0.   I don't think we feel we deserve to be in the hole we're in.   I think we played better than the situation indicates.   But that's hockey. 
We have to persevere here and stick with it and find a solution. 

Q.   Do you expect Sykora to play tomorrow?   If so, what are you hoping for?
COACH DeBOER:   He's an option for us.   We're going to consider him.   We haven't scored.   He's a guy that doesn't need a lot of looks to stick one in the net.   That's what he does best.   So he's definitely an option. 

Q.   I'm not sure if you would agree your players need to get more in Quick's face, but if you do agree with that, is that something you solve with X's and O's and game planning or is that just a will of your players to get that job accomplished?
COACH DeBOER:   You know, you wish it was that easy.   I mean, Quick's playing very well.   We're creating chances.   We're creating as many chances this round as we had against the Rangers the prior round.   We're not finishing. 
We've got to bear down a little bit more, we've got to get some more traffic.   We've got to find a way.   He's played very well.   He's played very well, for me, early in games. 
We've never been able to grab momentum, first goal, at a critical time.   That's been a big part for us in the playoffs.   We've got to be better at that. 

Q.   There's been speculation that Ilya Kovalchuk is playing hurt, other players are playing hurt.   Is it the usual array of injuries at this time in the playoffs?
COACH DeBOER:   Yeah, you get this deep in the playoffs, everybody's playing hurt.   You guys want somebody to blame for the situation we're in.   It's not like that, you know.   We're working hard.   We're doing a lot of good things.   Hasn't gone our way yet.   We've got to keep going. 

Q.   Obviously Marty is a three‑time Cup winner.   How do you think he's going to bounce back from Game3?
COACH DeBOER:   Marty Brodeur bouncing back is the least of my concerns. 

Q.   The history of being down 3‑0 in the final can probably be pretty overwhelming.   You do have a few cases of positive examples.   Is that something you've talked about at all with this team?
COACH DeBOER:   We haven't talked about the statistics of the situation we're in.   Again, we feel we don't belong in the hole we're in right now based on the way we've played, but we are. 
Got to stick with it and win one game.   That's where it starts.

Q.   How would you characterize the mood of your group, and how in the next 24 hours do you get them focused to play after so many things have gone against you so far?
COACH DeBOER:   Well, little disheartened.   That's natural.   It's human nature.   Today is kind of a day you get that out of your system.   Tomorrow you come back ready to work. 
It's our responsibility as coaches to look at the positives, look at the good things we're doing, look at the chances we're generating, show them that success is that close.   We just have to stick with it. 

Q.   Every time a team is in the situation, someone mentions the 1942 Maple Leafs.   I'm wondering if you ever heard stories of them?
COACH DeBOER:   I grew up in Ontario.   Heard a lot of stories about the Leafs.   I think '42 is a little far back for anything I remember (laughter). 
Thanks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT