NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: KINGS v DEVILS
June 4, 2012
Peter DeBoer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Coach DeBoer. 

Q.   You try to have your players stay 'little picture' all the time, shift to shift, period to period.   For you, is it impossible to do that?   Do you have to keep 'big picture' a little bit in your mind, what a certain result tonight would have an impact on your team?
COACH DeBOER:   I mean, sure you do.   You always know the situation you're in.   We know we don't want to go down 3‑0.   That's obvious. 
I also know, because we've been in this situation before, you're down 1‑0 to the Rangers.   You go down 2‑0, you're in trouble.   Same thing with Philly. 
We've been in these types of spots before.   You get a win, we're a team that's capable of rattling off two or three or four wins in a row.   That's how we've played.   It's a matter of getting that first one and getting on a roll. 

Q.   How seriously have you considered lineup changes, what goes into your thinking when you do consider it?
COACH DeBOER:   Well, we seriously consider lineup changes.   We've got some depth there.   We've got some good people that are available to us. 
I think the process we've gone through after every game is watch the tape, who can go in, come out, make us a better team. 
You don't want to do it on the situation you're in.   If a couple guys had good games last game, just because you lost, you're in a 2‑0 hole, you don't make changes just to make changes.   I don't think we're at that point.   We don't need to panic, do that.   I don't see that as a productive answer to where we're at right now.   That's the process. 

Q.   Nothing?
COACH DeBOER:   No changes. 

Q.   What went right with your power play through the first three rounds that isn't going right right now? 
COACH DeBOER:   I look at our chances, we had a grade A chance in Game1 against L.A., Zajac in the slot.   A couple other opportunities, Kovalchuk had a real good look.   Elias had a breakaway, didn't go in. 
One of those, two of those go in, they're different games, and we're not talking about it.   But that's how this works. 
You have to give L.A. credit and their goaltender.   Your goaltender is your best penalty killer.   They do a pretty good job. 
On the other side, I think we've had some good looks, we just haven't stuck 'em in the net. 

Q.   What has you confident that your team's mindset is seeing it as 'We're close enough to break through,' as opposed to the frustration of 'We haven't gotten breaks'? 
COACH DeBOER:   I'm confident because we've been here before.   We've been in this situation before.   We've been frustrated by a goaltender.   Lundqvist shut us out two of the first three games in the Rangers series.   We've traveled this road before. 
Florida frustrated us with their ability to score on the power play.   We had to work through that, eventually learn to stay out of the box as the series went on. 
We've done this before, we've been here.   We've just got to fix it again. 

Q.   How are you managing the time change?   Are you trying to stay on Eastern Time?
COACH DeBOER:   No, no.   I mean, we came in yesterday.   We flew.   We practiced.   We had a later dinner.   You try to keep the guys up until 10 or 11 o'clock, if you can.   That's the advice.   I don't know if it's realistic, but you want to get on L.A. times a quickly as you can.   That's our thought process. 

Q.   You mentioned before the series that Adam Oates was on a Western Conference team, was his influence at all on how you handled this?
COACH DeBOER:   Absolutely.   He definitely threw his two cents in on travel, whether to skate, whether to leave after the game last night, like L.A. did, whether to skate before we left New Jersey, come and fly. 
Again, I don't know if there's any right answers to that stuff.   You talk it through and you do what you think is right.   You hope you get the desired result. 

Q.   Parise said yesterday he doesn't think the games are being called quite the same way, so teams aren't getting a lot of power plays.   Do you agree with that?   Do you think that benefits either team?
COACH DeBOER:   I think the officiating has been very good in the final here.   I think both teams are conscious of trying to play a disciplined game.   I think our strengths both lie in the five‑on‑five game.   You can see there's an effort to stay out of the scrums, stay away from the penalties. 
I think that's what you're seeing. 

Q.   Are you doing anything different on this trip than you do during the regular season when you come west?   Have you made modifications on how you approach this, vis‑Ã ‑vis the time?
COACH DeBOER:   No.   Probably the biggest difference isn't necessarily the time change, it's the 5:00 start.   That's something you don't deal with during the regular season at all. 
We're not pregame skating today.   We're going to meet here at the hotel.   So that throws you off a little bit.   But, you know, that's a good problem to have if you're dealing with it 'cause you're in the finals. 

Q.   You've called Clarkson a big‑game scorer throughout the playoffs.   What do you think of his game so far? 
COACH DeBOER:   Yeah, for me that hasn't changed.   I thought Game1, he was arguably our best forward.   I thought he could have had two or three goals.   He's a guy on the verge of breaking out, as is Parise, as is Kovalchuk. 
I don't think it's any secret.   We have to score more than one goal.   All those guys on that list have to find a way. 
Thanks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT