NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: KINGS v DEVILS
June 3, 2012
Peter DeBoer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Coach DeBoer.  
   
 Q.   Last night you described the team's power play effort as embarrassing or it was an embarrassment.   Are you concerned that speaks of frustration or do you mind that kind of emotion after it?  
COACH DeBOER:   A little harsh.   Hopefully a little is lost in translation there.   
I think you're emotional after a loss.   I think when you reflect for a day, when you look at the tape, we did a lot of good things.   Obviously there's some areas we have to do a better job at.   But I really liked our game.   
Game1 to Game2, I thought we were 50% better.   I still think we have some more in the tank.   
   
 Q.   So much of the Devils' success through the year has been generational.   Down 2‑0 going into Game3, how much do you lean on that previous generation, the older guys in the room to keep things calm?  
COACH DeBOER:   Well, the older guys in the room, and you've got the guy who has been there almost from day one in Lou Lamoriello, too.   So those guys are key.   They've been there, seen every situation.   We feel good.   We think we have to win one game tomorrow night in order to put a different spin on this series.   
I know you guys are going to spout out stats, that it's an impossible mountain to climb.   We heard the same thing when we were down to Florida 3‑2 after Game5.   
But that stuff's irrelevant.   We really believe we can win a game tomorrow night.   If we do, we think it's a different series.   
   
 Q.   There are those who say the first two games you were dominated, some said it was 50/50.   What's the most accurate portrayal?  
COACH DeBOER:   Who said we dominated?   What were they drinking?   Must have been someone from here (laughter).   
   
 Q.   How would you evaluate the first two games in those terms?  
COACH DeBOER:   You have two 2‑1 overtime games.   Shots are relatively even.   Scoring chances are relatively even through two games.   I mean, we could be in a different situation.   We're not.   You have to give L.A. credit for finding a way to win those two games.   
We know we can play with them and we feel we have another level to go to here.   
   
 Q.   At this point would you ever consider maybe having a bit of a different look, putting a guy like Sykora in who has had a lot of experience in the playoffs, or Adam Larsson?  
COACH DeBOER:   We look at every option after every game.   Win or lose.   We want to put the best lineup on the ice.   All those guys are a consideration after every game.   
   
 Q.   In the first three rounds your team seemed to catch fire later in the series.   Any particular reason you can think of why?   Are you expecting that sort of thing again?  
COACH DeBOER:   Yeah, no, it's a good point.   We got down to Philly, rattled off four wins in a row.   Got down to the Rangers, rattled off three in a row.   We know we have that, that we're capable of doing that.   It's a matter of getting it done.   
This isn't an easy task.   They're a very good team.   They've shown that.   But we're a confident group.   There will be no laying down by our group.   
   
 Q.   You've talked about how this team self‑analyzes very well.   Can it be a difficult thing to properly self‑analyze when you know you've played a good game and didn't get the result you want?  
COACH DeBOER:   No, I don't think so.   I mean, you just said it.   The key is recognizing it.   We did a lot of good things last night.   We could have easily been on the other side of that game crossbar with seven seconds left, and, you know, it's 1‑1.   
The self‑analysis of last night is, yes, our power play has to get a little bit better.   Yes, there are some areas that we have to get a little bit better at.   But overall over, 60 minutes we played a real solid game.   
   
 Q.   You haven't led yet in any of these games.   How important would getting a lead on them be?  
COACH DeBOER:   Yeah, sure, absolutely.   I mean, we've been a quick‑starting team in the playoffs.   For whatever reason we haven't been able to get the first goal here.   That's all part of it.   
   
 Q.   With the games as close as they've been, do you feel less of a need in feeling pressure to make a change in the lineup because you played well in the last game?   Usually when you're down 2‑0, there's things going wrong, but you played pretty well.   
COACH DeBOER:   We're not making a change based on the hole we're in.   We'll make a change if we feel there's someone that can make us a better lineup for tomorrow night.   That's what we're making the decision on.   
Like I said, I thought our group played a good game last night.  
   
 Q.   The games have been close.   The Kings are doing something here approaching history.   How locked in do they look to you and how much of a challenge has it been to get them off of their game, whatever mojo they've got going on?  
COACH DeBOER:   Yeah, I mean, what they did on the road is impressive.   Having said that, both games are overtime games, we get a bounce, we're up and they're down.   
They're an impressive team.   What they've accomplished is impressive.   But this series is a long way from over.  
   
 Q.   How much did you talk to Jaques Lemaire when you took over this job to get a feel for what you were taking over?   
COACH DeBOER:   I leaned on Jacques quite a bit.   He came to training camp with us.   I got to spend some time with him.   I would have been crazy not to.   Knew the personnel inside out.   Had a good feel.   They had success down the stretch last year playing a certain way.   I relied on him early in the season and I still have regular phone conversations with him as late as a week ago.   
He's a great resource for me to have in the organization.   He laid the foundation defensively for this team last year.   That's why we're capable of playing teams like the Rangers and L.A. and play in 1‑1, 2‑1 games on a regular basis.   
We have to find a way internally here to score some more goals.   We have two goals in the series, one from Volchenkov, one from Carter, so I think that tells a story.   
   
 Q.   Along that line, Darryl said this morning that he had conversations with his brother Brent, who coached your club.   
COACH DeBOER:   How much of a tactical advantage could that be (laughter)?   
   
 Q.   Have you spoken to Brent?  
COACH DeBOER:   I've worked with Brent.   Brent is great.   We're coaches.   We rely on as many good coaches and smart people rely on as many people as they can when they get in these types of situations.   That doesn't surprise me.   
I'm sure Brent is a great resource for Darryl.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT