NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: DEVILS v RANGERS
May 20, 2012
Peter DeBoer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Much was made about trying to limit the number of Rangers fans.   I know that's a tough task, but looking back, did you feel you had the building more to yourselves than in the past against them?  
COACH DeBOER:   I'm here to win hockey games.   That plays no factor at what I'm doing at my level.  
   
 Q.   Josefson, what are you looking for from him?   And he hasn't played in a while, but looked like he was getting really going before ‑  
COACH DeBOER:   He finished the season very strong.   The last three, four weeks of the season he was great.   Fresh legs this time of year.   You're 15 games into a playoff run.   Can never hurt.   And he's been an effective guy for us, and we missed him while he was out.  
   
 Q.   John Tortorella today said that your players are trying to (indiscernible).   He called out Parise and Zubrus for a hit on Stralman and also (indiscernible) I think the P.K.   What's your response to that?  
COACH DeBOER:   Comical.   
   
 Q.   You made a couple of other line shuffles or tinkers.   What were you trying to do moving Kovalchuk and stuff like that?  
COACH DeBOER:   We got shut out.   We were trying to generate some offense.   That's been fairly common practice for us to move people around when we haven't had success scoring goals.   A little different situation, and I thought we generated a lot of quality chances.   I think the easy thing would be to stick with it and just hope you come out the next game, do the same thing and score.   
But we've decided to shuffle some things around, and I think we'll get some results in that.  
   
 Q.   You ran them together in the past.   What do you like about Zubrus with and Parise and Zajac?  
COACH DeBOER:   They played well together, they had some chemistry.   This is going prior to me getting here last year.   So I think they enjoyed playing together.   Hopefully that translates.   
   
 Q.   Do you envision Henrik as the center now?  
COACH DeBOER:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   Does that bring him up in your thinking?  
COACH DeBOER:   His career has been spotted with him playing wing, playing center.   I take some of the responsibility off him to work low in our end and to create offense at the other end.   
So hopefully that, again, translates to some offense.  
   
 Q.   Where does Sykora fit into your plans?   One of the extras?  
COACH DeBOER:   If we go with the lineup today at practice, then he's out tomorrow, those are some of the tough decisions you have to make in the Playoffs.   So it's not a finalized lineup yet.   So if we get to that point I'll talk about it tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Parise last night, what do you think about his play so far in the series?   Just give us a quick assessment.   
COACH DeBOER:   Zach always gives you the same thing:   100percent effort, 100percent team play.   Could easily have two or three goals in the series and we'd be praising him for how well he's played.   Like he did against Philadelphia, the series before.   So it's going to come with him.   I've got no concerns about Zach or his play.  
   
 Q.   Have you had a chance to look at the films today at all?   And, in retrospect, I don't know whether or not you feel the same way, but there's nothing you could have done any differently except for put the puck in the net.   And is that extremely frustrating as you look at the film in retrospect knowing full well you played a good game and didn't score?  
COACH DeBOER:   It's not frustrating.   You can't get frustrated.   I mean, that's what that team does to you and that goalie does to you.   So you have to work through that and know that he's going to pitch a good game at the other end and not let it get to you.   
I wouldn't change anything about our game last night, or very few things.   If we can play another game like that, I think we're going to win more than we're going to lose.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT