NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: DEVILS v RANGERS
May 14, 2012
Peter DeBoer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Rangers  – 3 
  Devils  – 0    
   
 Q. What happened in the third period?   
COACH DeBOER: They got the first goal. It was that type of hockey game. Once they got the first one, we had to open it up a little bit, and that's what happened.     
  
 Q. Do you think that players were frustrated by the shot blocking?   
COACH DeBOER: No. I mean, you can't get frustrated by something you expect. We know that's what they do. And you've got to find a way around it. We still generated enough offensive opportunities to score some goals tonight.     
   
 Q. Did you feel the team shot enough pucks at Lundqvist, rather than passing?   
COACH DeBOER: We might have got a little too cute once in a while. But it was probably an area we can probably improve a little bit at.     
   
 Q. Marty played pretty well, especially keeping guys in the game for the first two periods. Could you talk about how he played and kind of what happened on those two goals, initially?   
COACH DeBOER: I thought both goalies played well. Again, I think -- like I said, I think whoever was going to score first tonight was going to win. And they threw a point shot at the net that found a way through. We threw a lot of those at the net, too, and didn't find one through.   
So that was the story of the game. And we've been in this spot before. We were down 1-0 to Philly and we know how to handle this.     
   
 Q. What's the best positive you take out of tonight?   
COACH DeBOER: I thought we played a real good hockey game. We've been off a week. I thought through 40 minutes - we could have been up in the game. So give them credit for finding a way in the third period.   
But that was a closer game than the score indicated.     
   
 Q. Was there a hand pass or covered puck there right before that power play goal on their end?   
COACH DeBOER: Before the power play goal? I don't know. I haven't looked at the tape. It was irrelevant. That wasn't why we lost. But I didn't see that.     
   
 Q. They were both on their backhands, but were you surprised to see Kovalchuk and Parise caught on the semi breaks in the first period?   
COACH DeBOER: Yeah, couldn't get the handle. It was one of those nights. Like I said, we generated enough opportunities to score some goals. We've got to find a way to finish.     
   
 Q. In terms of Lundqvist, what do you want to do different in Game 2 in terms of guys in front, anything different?   
COACH DeBOER: Sure, you want more traffic. You want more shots. We've got to find a way to stick them in the back of the neck. We know we can do that. We've done it before. We watched Washington score on them. We watched Ottawa score on them. We've just gotta find a way.   
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT