U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 25, 2001
Manuel Merizalde
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MANUEL MERIZALDE:  Thank you. 

MANUEL MERIZALDE:  Yes.

MANUEL MERIZALDE:  Well, it was working pretty good the first nine holes.  I hit my driver pretty well.  I just didn't make some key putts that I had to make.  But then on the second round, just didn't give myself a chance.  I just kept hitting it in the rough and you don't get good lies very often in that kind of rough.  So I'm just disappointed because I didn't make Robert play his best.  That's it.

MANUEL MERIZALDE:  Well, it seemed like everything happened so fast.  I was one up and then all of a sudden I was two down and that was at 15.  And I think I just didn't play each shot at a time.  I just lost a hole and just kept going and then lost the next one and kept going.  I think for a moment I should have stopped and kind of said, no, okay, you've lost two holes.  You got to try to do a change, should I do something, just hit a 3-wood, get it in the fairway and that's probably what I should have done on number 13 after he hit it in the rough on the left side.  I had a lot of confidence with my 3-wood, but after I missed the tee shot on 12 I was trying to hit a cut and I just hit it straight into the rough.  So I said you might as well just try to rip your driver.  And I think that wasn't the very best decision. 

Q.  You made the putt on 16 there to extend it for the next hole.  Did you have a little bit of hope there?

MANUEL MERIZALDE:  Well, yes, I knew I had to hit a good driver on 17, which I didn't.  But all the time I thought that I could still maybe pull it out.  But, unfortunately, that wasn't the case. 

Q.  You had said quite a number of times about how much trying to get to the Masters for a Colombian would have been a big thing for you.  You were saying a minute ago that it wasn't on your mind that much.  But do you think it will be later, something you'll think about later?

MANUEL MERIZALDE:  I think so.  Yes, I think when I see the guys on TV then probably is where it's going to hurt the most. 

Q.  I'm sure you've gotten a lot of good feedback from the people in Colombia this week of what you've accomplished already.  How has that been?

MANUEL MERIZALDE:  It's been great, really.  It's not very often, you know, when I pick up my cell phone and I have like 21 unplayed messages.  So it's fun to go through all of them. 

Q.  Are you typically a very good driver of the golf ball?

MANUEL MERIZALDE:  Not really.  I have my streaks.  Sometimes I can go for two months hitting it really well and then could go really bad.  But I think what I'm going to try to do is switch my drivers.  Because I've been playing with the Ping driver for the last like year and a half, and I think that year and a half that's been the toughest one was my driver.  But with this Titleist driver, I felt pretty good today.  But fortunately I think I made just some bad swings.  And that's what cost me. 

Q.  What driver did you switch to today?

MANUEL MERIZALDE:  Titleist. 

Q.  975?

MANUEL MERIZALDE:  Yeah, the new one. 

Q.  The new one.


Q.  You never really got a chance to see Robert's best game either, but how would you evaluate his game?

MANUEL MERIZALDE:  Well, I think if he keeps driving the ball how he is right now, it's going to be tough for whoever wins to beat him.  I know he'll get ready for tomorrow with his putting.  And it's going to be tough to beat him if he keeps hitting that driver like that. 

Q.  Did you surprise yourself a little bit this week at your measure of success?

MANUEL MERIZALDE:  Like I said before, it's just, it wasn't because I didn't think I couldn't do it, because I knew I could do it.  Just my golf game wasn't there for the last couple months.  But I was a little surprised, yeah, because I was able to start to get out of this slump and hopefully it's going to keep progressing.

MANUEL MERIZALDE:  Thank you. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT