U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 24, 2001
Manuel Merizalde
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MANUEL MERIZALDE:  Well, I believe I was pretty tired coming in today.  I didn't really feel my swing was that sharp this morning, that crispy.  But I got away with it.  I kept making pars and I made a couple of birdies, only one bogey, so I was 1-under after the 14 holes I played, which is good enough to win the match.  But the thing I struggled with the most was my driver.  Definitely.  I just hit a few fairways.  But that happens.  
 
MANUEL MERIZALDE:  Well, I believe so, yeah.  Because I think I have got an advantage from that if I don't hit my driver really well because I've been able to get up-and-down pretty easy.  So whenever I'm in trouble, I know they're tough pins and if the other guy is in the fairway he's still going to have a tough time making birdie so I try to put myself in a position where I have a chance to make an up-and-down.  And I've been successful in that.  
 
Q.  Manuel, talk about your caddy, Camilo Villegas, lost yesterday and became your caddy today.  That was an interesting combination because he's an excellent player, and were you joking coming in that one of the very few times your caddy might be better than the player.
 
MANUEL MERIZALDE:  Yeah, that's right.  I don't see this really as a -- I mean I see it as a win for me in some ways, but I see it kind of like a team.  We're both Colombians and we're being together for this tournament and, definitely, if I am able to win, it's going to be definitely for the country and for us, the team that we're playing for.  
 
Q.  What do you ask him to do for you?  Do you read putts together or how are you doing this now?
 
MANUEL MERIZALDE:  Yeah.  We did basically everything together.  All the choices I made I guess he approved them all.  And he kept me really relaxed out there.  He kept talking to me a lot.  I think that was one of the keys, yes.  
 
Q.  Okay.  Who is the better player?
 
MANUEL MERIZALDE:  Right now I am.  But I believe he is.  He's had a better career than I have so far.  
 
Q.  How about just losing a little bit of adrenaline after yesterday?  You played two tough matches yesterday, you reached the quarter-finals, which automatically brings you back to the U.S. Amateur, was it a little bit tougher to start anew again today to be fresh?
 
MANUEL MERIZALDE:  Yes, definitely.  Last night I totally I felt tired.  My legs were tired.  I think it was also because of the sun and the stress.  You know what I mean?  When you're out there your adrenaline is going and you don't really feel it until probably an hour after you finished, after you've talked to everybody, everybody has like congratulated you and stuff and talking on the phone.  I got to the hotel room after.  I ate and I was just exhausted.  So I went to bed like at 10:00 this morning and I woke up I still felt a little tired.  I did some good stretching after I got out of the shower.  And I felt much better.  But I believe in my swing.  I felt that there was some like stress and tiredness there.  
 
Q.  Colombian golfers, who has been a father figure for you, for to you follow in your native land?
 
MANUEL MERIZALDE:  I'll say there's a mother and it will be probably Marisa Baena most likely.  She's the one that kind of started the first one to come here to the States to go to school and the first one to be really successful at her sport.  So she is the one to follow, definitely.  
 
Q.  Do you know if there's ever been a Colombian player in the Masters?
 
MANUEL MERIZALDE:  Never.  Never, ever, ever. 
 
Q.  Has that thought crossed your mind now that you're in the semi-finals?
 
MANUEL MERIZALDE:  It doesn't bother me one bit.  I have nothing to lose tomorrow.  I'm going to give it a try and I know if I try my hardest it's going to be tough for the other guy to beat me because I'm going to leave everything out there.  
 
Q.  What does Camilo say to you when you're in need of a boost?  Do you help each other in terms of encouragement?
 
MANUEL MERIZALDE:  Yeah.  He tells me all the time just think positive things, you can do it.  Whenever we saw the Japanese team was in trouble, you know, he told me hit the green, make your par, make him work for it.  So definitely, I mean, all I did all today was get advice from him.  
 
MANUEL MERIZALDE:  Actually, I think I'm going to go to the hotel room pretty soon and I'm going to probably be out there for a couple hours, but then I'm going to come back in the afternoon and practice on my driving.  I think I'm going to try a new driver tomorrow a, Titleist driver, since my Ping hasn't been working that well.  So we're going to give it a try this afternoon.  Hit some wedges too.  I think that all afternoon I'm going to be working on my game and then tonight I'm going to just relax really, and just go to bed and not think about anything.  
 
Q.  You've been heading to the locker room and making a call.  Are you calling back home to your folks or are you calling a friend back home?  Who do you chat with at home?
 
MANUEL MERIZALDE:  I talk to my mom.  I call her and she will be joking and one thing that she says, I'm the doctor, you know, and the guys I'm playing, they're my patients and I'm taking care of them.  So that's pretty funny.  I like that.  When I get done I call her, give her a call and she's really happy.  Cheers me up and says, yeah, you can.  You took care of your patients today.  And that's it. 
 
Q.  When was the last time you have been home?
 
MANUEL MERIZALDE:  I went in June.  A cousin got married down there so I went for a couple weeks for his wedding and just to see my family.  
 
Q.  And how did you end up at BYU?
 
MANUEL MERIZALDE:  I don't really know.  Well, I went to play the Junior World in San Diego and that is where I met my coach.  I had a friend, Jose Garrido, that was going to school there.  He liked it a lot.  The golf team was going to be really good.  Johnny Miller's kids were going to be on the team.  Michael Henderson, which was a Rolex Player of the Year in 1996 was on the team.  So I knew we had a chance to win the Nationals.  So I just decided to go there.  
 
Q.  Have you heard from Marisa?
 
MANUEL MERIZALDE:  No.  I don't really talk to Marisa.  I talk to her sister, sometimes, Christina.  I do that.  We call each other and write each other some E-mails but not to Marisa.  I would really like to talk to her. 
 
Q.  Would this be a real high achievement in Colombia golf history?
 
MANUEL MERIZALDE:  I think so, yeah.  Nobody has ever made it to match play before Camilo and I.  So I think being in the semi-finals it's a big thing.  But I'm trying not to let that take me off my game and my match tomorrow.  I know I've done well.  But we still got to keep going and my goal is definitely to win.  I'm not going to be happy if I lose tomorrow.  
 
Q.  As long as you win tomorrow and you get to the finals, you get an invitation to play in the U.S. Open.  Would you stay amateur to take advantage of the opportunities and invitations that come your way?
 
MANUEL MERIZALDE:  Yeah, definitely.  Because my mom's not going to let me quit school and turn pro.  I got to graduate first.  So I'm definitely going to stay amateur.  Play my last year of college.  And then, yeah, we will see the options from there. 
 
Q.  How does this golf course compare to the once you play in Colombia?
 
MANUEL MERIZALDE:  In Colombia, I think that we don't have such a long course down there.  They're a little shorter.  It seems like all of the courses we have are tree lined so  you have you to be pretty straight off the tee.  So we have some really, really good golf courses down there.  
 
Q.  When you were growing up there and learning how to play golf, did you imagine a day like this in your life?
 
MANUEL MERIZALDE:  Oh, yeah.  I mean I never really thought of the U.S. Amateur.  I thought of the Masters, U.S. Open and stuff like that.  But the tournament that I have always thought the most and the one that I've always wanted to win is the Masters.  That's my dream.  
 
Q.  We notice that both of you went to Michigan to qualify because were you playing in the western amateur.  Who had the idea to go to try and qualify in Michigan, you or Camilo?
 
MANUEL MERIZALDE:  Well, I've been qualifying in Michigan for the last three years, so because I go out there for the Western Amateur.  So the week before the Monday before the tournament I always try to qualify there.  And it's just  -- it was just basically, I don't know, it was just good for the schedule.  I was going to be up there anyway so you might as well just qualify for the Amateur out there.  
 
Q.  How long have you been on your own in the U. S. just traveling from place to place and going to school without the support, really, of going home to your family?
 
MANUEL MERIZALDE:  Well, I've been doing it for like four years now living by myself and stuff.  And I've been able to get used to it.  I haven't been really like homesick and all that can happen to other guys.  So I think that has helped me, really.  Kind of like to be independent and do things for my own self. 
 
Q.  Yet national pride means a lot to you and you take that with you in what you accomplish this week. 
 
MANUEL MERIZALDE:  Oh, yeah.  Definitely.  I told you, I'm just thinking of doing this for my country, really.  For me too, but definitely I just want to have everybody proud of a Colombian player, especially.  
 
Q.  Do you look at the other players from your area of the world like Carlos Franco and Cabrerra, both have done very well at The Masters, do you follow that?  Do you notice that when that happens?
 
MANUEL MERIZALDE:  Yeah, definitely.  And those guys used to play the South American Tour and they used to play on my golf course in Cali, you know.  Actually I play one tournament, I played two days with Carlos Franco, I don't know if he remembers that or not, but I do and my dad  knows Angel Cabrerra pretty well.  
 
MANUEL MERIZALDE:  Thank you.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT