U.S. SENIOR OPEN
August 11, 2016
John Lobb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk about the experience.  First time on what I would call the national stage in golf.
JOHN LOBB: Well, it was awesome.  I can't say enough about the course and the setup.  I think it was hard but fair today.  They gave us a little break on some of the pin locations as well as the length of the hole.  So I just three-putted four times.  Other than that, I was pretty pleased with the way I played for the most part.
Q. Is it everything that you thought it would be?
JOHN LOBB: Well, I was lucky enough to play in the 2005 U.S. amateur.  So I kind of knew what to anticipate.  So it wasn't like my first time ever, but, yes, it was everything and more.  It was awesome.
Q. How about being out there with your son on the bag and that whole experience?
JOHN LOBB: That was awesome too.  Zach did an awesome job today.  He was there for me for every club.  He had all the yardages ready for me.  The most important part, he had water for me on every hole.  So that was key to keeping me going.
Q. I don't know if you were told this after the round, but I know your wife knew this, that Fox had featured you during the broadcast, and they showed some of your shots.  She said her phone was blowing up from all her friends.
JOHN LOBB: No, I did not know that, but hopefully, I produced on television for a couple good shots.  That was cool.
Q. Have you heard from any of your old teammates on the Navy football team coming in?
JOHN LOBB: Oh, yeah, there's a Navy Football Brotherhood now that we have -- I've got to give a shout-out for them.  All Post guys that ever played football, we've got a Navy Football Brotherhood now, and I think we're up to about 1,500 members from years gone to present that were part of the membership.
Somebody got a hold of this and sent it out to all the guys.  They've been rooting me on.  Good luck at the U.S. Open.  So it was awesome.
Q. All the experiences you've been through as a commander in the Navy, how did that possibly help prepare you for this moment?
JOHN LOBB: Well, the military is a grind.  It really is a grind.  You've got to show up on time every day, put in the hours necessary, and a U.S. Open is very similar to that.  You have to have patience.  Things don't go your way, you have to have plan A, B, and C, and you have to adapt and overcome, and that's what we do in the military.
Q. Was there any one shot in the round today or one hole you were proud of?
JOHN LOBB: Let's see.  What was it?  On 13, I pulled a hybrid way left and had about 36 yards to the pin and hit a nice little flop shot out of the rough off a root to about 12 feet.  I was very proud of that shot.  Unluckily, I didn't make the putt, but it was a very satisfying shot.
Q. Now that you've played the course in a competition setting, what are your expectations going into tomorrow?
JOHN LOBB: Well, I need to improve my score a lot.  I really need to knock off the three-putting.  I had a birdie putt on 3 from four feet and missed it, just started off very badly.  I got to get a better start and putt a little better.  And I think -- you know, I should be able to shoot close to around par instead of what I shot today.
That won't be enough, but it will be better and more pleasing for me to be able to do that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT