RENO-TAHOE OPEN
August 6, 2011
Mathias Gronberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. That was some type of day that you and Scott had out there.   
 MATHIAS GRONBERG: Yeah, it was fun, except for the last couple of holes it was. Obviously Scott is quite happy with his eagle on the last hole, but I was quite frustrated with the finish.  
 But I tried to just catch up with Scott there. I started playing a lot better in the middle of the round, and was very pleased with that.  
  
  Q. Talk about when one guy gets on a roll like that just in terms of feeding off that and making a lot of birdies yourself.   
 MATHIAS GRONBERG: Yeah, obviously you notice how easy the golf course is being played, so you just kind of do that. Obviously you don't want to be left too far behind, so you kind of creep and start hitting better shots because you see good shots.   
 So it's easier to play a good round with someone like that.  
  
  Q. Talk about being back here in Reno. T-3 last year, so you've got really good feelings about this place.   
 MATHIAS GRONBERG: Yeah, it's been pretty good this week, but I've got way too many mistakes. I've got a double and probably, I don't know, seven, eight bogeys or -- I'm making too many mistakes.   
 Hopefully tomorrow, if I shoot a bogey-free round tomorrow, I'll be a good player probably. I keep on making the birdies and the eagles here.  
  
  Q. Talk about the state of your game. Making your first start on the TOUR; 12 starts on the Nationwide Tour. Talk about your game height now.   
 MATHIAS GRONBERG: Right now it's okay. Just too many inconsistent shots. Standing on 17 today with a 9-iron, a good shot there. I set up a birdie and I missed the green.   
 Except I hit a lot of good shots, a lot of good putts, I feel good, but I'm still making some mistakes. Last hole I pull-hooked a 6-iron. If I put it on the green I'm putting for eagle. It was a very poor finish. Quite angry with that, not happy with it.   
 But at the same time, I'm very pleased that I shot 6-under. It's a good score. It's what I needed to do to kind of at least have a smaller chance tomorrow to win the tournament.  
  
  Q. Talk about Scott's round.   
 MATHIAS GRONBERG: He played fantastic. The first holes he was a little bit unfortunate, but he hit it just left on 13, otherwise he makes a fairly easy birdie there or putting for eagle. So he made par there.  
 His round kind of stopped up a little bit. He hit a great shot on hole No. 11 that was just a little bit too long. Then he had a very hard right-to-left downhill putt, and that kind of stopped his momentum a little bit.  
 But then he hit a great shot, both me and him hit great shots on 14. We were literally just putting to the hole. Both had a good chance to make eagle on the par-4. Birdied the next one.  
 Obviously 16 and 17 are hard holes, and we both weren't playing them good. I shot 2-over and he shot 1-over on 'em. He managed to get the 9th eagle, and I'm standing there with a 6-iron and thinking eagle too, not par or fighting for par like I had to.   
  
  Q. Play well tomorrow.   
 MATHIAS GRONBERG: Thank you very much.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT