SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 23, 2006
Mathias Gronberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MATHIAS GRONBERG:  It was hard.  I didn't really get anything going, really fought hard.  I just kept on missing a couple of putts there, 14, 15, 16, so that was hard.
Q.  What was it like playing with Stuart; he's just kind of playing on cruise control and kind of pulled away.
MATHIAS GRONBERG:  He was making a lot of good putts.  He was very nice to play with.  He's a true gentleman of the sport.  It was just nice to play.  But unfortunately I couldn't really get going my own game.
Q.  It must have been awfully tough to get to 19 looking at the scores today.
MATHIAS GRONBERG:  19 for me would have been hard.  No, I needed to    my chip on hole No. 8 would have gone in for an eagle and then of course I kind of three putted 9 and then another three putt on the back, so I could have gotten to 15, 16, 17 under today and unfortunately it went the other way.

I tried to make an eagle on 12 and 13.  12, I did a good birdie, but on 13 I tried to hit my rescue club really close, and it just went over the back there, and I made bogey.  I thought at least birdie from what I had.  I tried to make an eagle and that kind of shifted the momentum really hard against me.  I made a really good up and down on the next hole but didn't kind of get the round going.

But I played a lot better than 1 over par today.  I feel like I didn't really get anything going except the birdie on, what was it, 7 and 8.
Q.  How did that chip on 8 not go in?  That looked like it was dead center.
MATHIAS GRONBERG:  It was close.  I couldn't believe that it didn't go in because it was so close with maybe a foot left to roll out.  But it was a great shot, and it was a good 4 anyway.
Q.  You're leaving here with some positive stuff for the week even though today was a little disappointing for you?
MATHIAS GRONBERG:  Yeah, you always learn playing in the last group, the final group, and I probably would learn next time that    I didn't really need to go for the eagle on 13 as much as I did.  I should have hit 3 iron or possibly a 4 iron a little short and possibly three putted or made a long putt for eagle there, and that probably would have helped me finish higher than I did.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT