NL WILDCARD GAME: ROCKIES VS CUBS
October 2, 2018
Kyle Freeland
Trevor Story
Tony Wolters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Colorado - 2
Chicago - 1
Q. Kyle, wondering if you can talk about the last year you guys made the pre-season but you didn't get a home playoff game.  You're playing the Wild Card on the road this time.  You're going to end up playing some games at Coors and talk about what it means to take the playoffs to Denver.
KYLE FREELAND: It's going to be extremely exciting.  It's been awhile since playoffs have been in Denver.  We got a little taste of it right before we left for L.A. the other day, seeing the entire city rally around us playing against Washington and kind of getting that playoff environment feel.  It's going to be to be extremely exciting to bring some more playoff baseball to Denver and hopefully win some games.
Q. For both of you, they always say that good things come to those who wait.  This was a long wait, not only the season but of course tonight as well.  I'm wondering if you could talk about playing in a game like tonight which is one of these historic kind of games.
KYLE FREELAND: It was awesome.  It was so much fun to compete out there tonight and him coming up with the huge knock there in the 13th inning and that's after being on the bench for four hours, absolutely incredible.  It just shows the resiliency of this team.  But it's going to be a lot of fun to continue this ride.
Q. Kyle, you came into this game without postseason experience.  This is a big stage, and on short rest, you're going up against Lester and yet you went out there and delivered.  What was that like as far as just sticking your game plan and making it work?
KYLE FREELAND: Got to start your postseason experience somewhere.  It was nice to come out on top today and have the team back you up and a team that just continued to fight no matter what, no matter what was happening and it was absolutely incredible and both these guys sitting next to me were huge parts of that.
Q. Kyle, you grew up with this franchise and you watched 2007 from your sofa.  How much better is it to stand out there and pitch in the playoffs?
KYLE FREELAND: It's an incredible feeling.  I remember 2007 like it was yesterday.  Being on my couch, watching Holliday slide into home plate.  Carroll hit the sac fly and going through that entire ride at that point as a fan.  And to be a part of it now going through it with my teammates and how we have just been grinding everything out for the past two seasons, it's great to see, things are starting to pay off and kind of fall in our favor.  So I'm super excited for the future.
Q. Tony, like Kyle said, you sat for so long during the game and to enter the game in the 13th and then get the chance to hit.  What was the mentality as you came to the plate with knowing that you guys had the opportunity to go ahead there?
TONY WOLTERS: Well I stretched about four times throughout the game.  I was thinking I was going to get put in with a double switch or something.  But my mentality was just see the ball up, he has a really good changeup.  See it out over, find a hole, put it in the outfield.  Our guys that play every day, I want to do something for them because they're grinding every day.  And when I get put in there, I expect myself to do my job.  So the first changeup he threw to me I could have swung twice.  And then the second one I actually got a piece of it and put it in the hole so it felt pretty good.  So great feeling.  It's a feeling I'm not going to forget.
Q. Tony, I'm sure you've had some big hits throughout your life, might that have been the biggest hit of your life there?
TONY WOLTERS: Of course.
(Laughter.)
Are you kidding me?  Yeah, that was probably the biggest hit I've ever had, that's for sure.
Q. Tony, this is a game that dares you to fail and grinds on you really hard.  You had not had a hit in so long and I'm sure people told you this, but it was September 10th.  How do you carry confidence up to the plate in that situation?
TONY WOLTERS: These guys.  These guys keep me confident.  They're my brothers and they're my support group.  They're my second family.  This game can kick your butt sometimes.  There's a lot of adversity, but it's never, I'm not going to ever -- I'm not ever going to let that take me down.  So I think that adversity makes you stronger and these guys helped me out a lot.
Q. This thing goes on forever, Trevor, I mean what's the ride of emotions like or are you just so focused on the moment.  How nervous do you get or how uptight do you get?
TREVOR STORY: Yeah, I think people would be lying to you if they told you they weren't nervous.  You just really try to channel that and put it into your preparation and that's what I tried to do.  Knowing we had Free going I felt really confident and it just felt like a war out there tonight, it was so emotional, such an emotional game, a lot of ups and downs, it's really proud of my teammates and this team that it could have easily gone the other way, but we stepped up and made it happen.
Q. 2,500 miles you traveled, three cities, three days.  Was it worth the trip?
TREVOR STORY: A hundred percent.  Yeah.  We didn't make it easy on ourselves, that's for sure, we didn't make it easy, but we're going to enjoy this one tonight and we're definitely not done.
Q. I know right now in the midst of this celebration it might be hard to think about but as you look ahead to Milwaukee, what do you like about yourselves going into that series?
TONY WOLTERS: Yeah, we know it's going to be a tough series Milwaukee's a good team, we have had some battles throughout the year, two very talented teams.  So we like ourselves against anybody, no matter who it is and we feel like we can beat anybody, so we'll show up Thursday ready to play.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT