SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 12, 2011
Anthony Grant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







ALABAMA: 58
  KENTUCKY: 72

 THE MODERATOR: We're joined by Alabama. We'll start with an opening statement by Coach Grant. 
 COACH GRANT: Well, I thought Kentucky was very good today. They came out right from the beginning, and from an offensive standpoint, they had success early. And we were playing catch up really for the entire game. 
 Give them credit, they made, ran their offense very well, made open shots, they made contested shots. We had a tough time finding the rhythm on the offensive end in the first half, dug a hole for ourself, but certainly proud of the fight that our guys showed. 
 And the thing we talked about was playing 40 minutes. That's what we try to do every game, and I think our guys went out there and did that today. I'm certainly very proud of our group, proud of the guys that I had the pleasure of coaching, and I'm just looking forward to whatever lies ahead for us. 
 THE MODERATOR: Take questions for the student-athletes. All right. No questions, we'll take questions for coach. 

 Q. Coach, in the game in Tuscaloosa, you guys did a great job on the boards. They seemed to do a better job today. What was the difference there? 
 COACH GRANT: Well, they made shots. When they made shots, obviously it stretched our defense. When you stretch your defense and you have to put a guy and a half on the shooters coming off, it opens up opportunities for other guys. Harrellson did a great job of being in the right place at the right time understanding when shots were going to go up and attacking the glass. They were very active today all over the court. They did a very good job. 

 Q. You said you were looking forward to whatever lies ahead. Do you have any strong feelings right now about what will happen tomorrow with the selection committee or what should happen? 
 COACH GRANT: You know what, I'm more focused on our team and I think we have had a very good year. 
 Considering where we started and where we finished up, really proud of our guys. So this was about being in the SEC tournament and enjoying the moment of having an opportunity to try to compete for a championship and the benefits of what we did throughout the regular season and the SEC. So that was our focus and like I said, for me, whatever happens will happen. But that can't diminish what these guys were able to accomplish during the course of the season in my mind. 

 Q. It seemed like right off the bat, very first possessions you were able to go down inside and score, and maybe there was less of that the rest of the way. I don't know how much a part of that was the game plan, and did they do anything in particular to make it tougher after that?
 COACH GRANT: Well, they did a good job of doubling down and jamming the lane up on us, denying post entry. So from an offensive standpoint, we struggled a little bit. JaMychal picked up a couple of fouls there, Tony went out with the calf injury there, so we kind of had a make shift lineup therefore a stretch during the first half. 
 We struggled. 
 But give Kentucky credit, they were able to defensively do what they needed to do to cause us problems and offensively we had a difficult time containing their scorers. 
 THE MODERATOR: Okay. Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT