ROLAND GARROS
May 25, 2014
Alize Lim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. WILLIAMS/A. Lim 
      6‑2, 6‑1

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please. 

Q.   I know you're pretty friendly with Serena now through Mouratoglou.   What were your thoughts when you drew her and actually having to play her in a big stage match?
    ALIZE LIM:   Well, I mean, at first I couldn't believe it, because we just talked about it, and for me, it was impossible, because we were just talking about the draw, and it hadn't even occurred to my mind that it could happen.
    My first thought was, wow, like, it's going to be huge, like, it was my first French Open, and it could be small match on small court against qualifier, and all of a sudden it was the big thing. 
    I was very excited and also a bit scared.   I never done this kind of thing.
    Then that's it. 

Q.   Did you talk at all after you found out you were playing each other or did it sort of go silent after a while?
    ALIZE LIM:   No, I didn't see her ever since.   The next time I saw her was on court.

Q.   What is your relationship with her?   How close are you?
    ALIZE LIM:   I mean, we just like catch up when we see each other, basically.   That's it. 

Q.   Overall, how do you think it went?
    ALIZE LIM:   The match? 

Q.   Yeah, the whole experience. 
    ALIZE LIM:   It was obviously a great experience for me.   I was very tight, very nervous.   I could see that she was also.   But I enjoyed it the whole time, the atmosphere was unbelievable. 
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French, please. 

Q.   Did you enjoy this match, this first match, on the center court?
    ALIZE LIM:   Well, I enjoyed the atmosphere more than the game itself, because we were so nervous, the two of us.   I was very focused.   I wanted to fight.   We had a few good exchanges, and I really loved it.
    I could not develop my game as if I was playing a standard game, but that's quite normal.   I really loved the atmosphere.   That's what I told her at the net.   I said, I loved your job.

Q.   You know her well.   How was she today?   Do you think she was stronger than usual?
    ALIZE LIM:   Well, she's always very strong for many reasons.   You know, she's not where she is today for nothing.   Important points, her serve, that's why she makes the whole difference.
    I think she will increase her game as matches go by, but to be honest, I was mostly thinking about myself.

Q.   Can you imagine any other player capable of defeating her?
    ALIZE LIM:   I don't know, and I hope not.

Q.   When playing this kind of match, do you feel you'll be defeated 6‑Love, 6‑Love and it's going to be a nightmare?   Did you have this fear before you walked on to the court?
    ALIZE LIM:   Not just before I walked on the court, but just after the draw, because very often that's the kind of match she plays against other girls.   So I tried to focus having positive thoughts, and I thought to myself, Okay, I have played boys and it can't be worse.
    She doesn't come from another planet, so if I can move well and I can hit my ball well, there is no reason she should win 6‑Love, 6‑Love.

Q.   Playing No. 1, certainly your head was spinning yesterday night.   You probably had difficulties sleeping. 
    ALIZE LIM:   Well, if I was to tell you it made no difference to me, I would be lying.   Yeah, it was really something special.   It was like being in a dream.   I was wondering if it was true, and I had difficulties falling asleep.

Q.   Your family was there?
    ALIZE LIM:   Yeah.   Quite a lot of them.   But I didn't look at them.   I know they were here, because I gave them the invitation.

Q.   Are you going to watch the match again on video and analyze it, or will you take enough time before you do that?
    ALIZE LIM:   I will definitely watch it.   Not right now, because I want to keep the memories I have from within.   But within a few days I'll look at it, and I will learn a lot. 

Q.   Did you learn a lot from Serena today?
    ALIZE LIM:   For sure.   It was my first match on a big court, so of course it's going to be very useful. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT