U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 20, 2014
Bryan Bush
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  How would you sum up the day?  BRYAN BUSH: Another successful day.  We did run into a little, as we said yesterday, we got Ross'd on No. 13.  It was tough lie and we could have taken an unplayable to start out with, but thought we could get the club on the ball. But best part about it is, as you saw, the way she finished.  It was pretty impressive.  Those were some great golf swings down the stretch and just a fun week.  She is such a delight and she will keep you on your toes though.  If you do wrong, she's going to let you know.  But it was great.  We had a good time.   Q.  Can you give us an instance of when you did wrong if you did anything wrong?  BRYAN BUSH: Well, no, I mean there was some times with the speed and the line here on No. 2, if you don't match the speed with the line, you're not going to make a lot of putts.  There was an instance I got her a little too far outside with the speed she hit the putt.  So caddie error.  But it's all good.  We broke 80 both days and I think we did make a birdie today, right?   Q.  Two.  BRYAN BUSH: Bingo.  There you go.  And as she said, sand saves were much better today.  So the bunker practice that we did late evening and early this morning before the heat, that was, that's why we were out here early this morning is to beat the heat and so that she could withstand whatever Mother Nature was going to throw at us this afternoon.   Q.  What impressed you the most about her this week?  BRYAN BUSH: Like I said in the beginning, how she bounced back.  She would hit -- we would have an uh-oh hole and next thing you know she would hit a hybrid or a fairway wood inside eight feet.  You don't see many of the adult pros doing that.  That's what really impressed me. And when she hit the 3-wood on 16, just a little left and it goes in the bunker, she asked, did that go in the bunker?  I said, yes.  She goes, okay.  Oh, well.  But, yeah, so just the way she bounces back from a bad hole.   Q.  Emotionally people might have worried that a stage like that could be too big for an 11-year-old.  How did she show you that it wasn't?  BRYAN BUSH: No.  The biggest is -- I mean the press conference, when -- she has no expectations.  She came here to have fun.  She went through the sectional qualifier.  She played her way into the field and she proved that she deserved to be here.  So that's -- her play spoke for itself.   Q.  Do you think she had fun?  BRYAN BUSH: I think she had a great time.  I know she's looking forward to the Pub Links, I think that's in Washington, so look out field, she will be coming for you. And then of course the U.S. Amateur.  So she's got a busy summer ahead of her and I wish her the best and hope I get to work with her again.   Q.  What was the best moment today outside the golf, her cutest moment that you'll remember?  BRYAN BUSH: When she was sitting on, I think it was, 12 tee and we had finally found some Gatorade packs that she liked.  She was kind of doing her little mixology, getting the levels right, so it's not too sweet but it's not too bland.  She just looked like an 11-year-old.  But with a professional golf swing.  So it was a lot of fun.   Q.  I'm sure this is out there and you answered this before, but I don't know, so I'm going to ask you, how did you come to be her caddie?  BRYAN BUSH: Well, a good friend of mine with Edel Golf.  And if you guys don't know, Edel makes some of the best wedges and putters, custom fit for your game, he knows Lucy's family and has worked with Lucy before and he gave me a call when she qualified at Half Moon and said -- because normally I'm in Aspen, Colorado right now where it's not a hundred degrees.  He asked me if I would come back and I said, for this opportunity, of course.  This is an experience you can't pass up.   Q.  Were you skeptical in the beginning thinking of a 11 year old playing Pinehurst No. 2?  BRYAN BUSH: No.  I was I was excited.  I was ready to make the cut and prove all you guys wrong.  But it didn't happen, but we broke 80 both days.   Q.  I wanted to ask you, she was out here at 8:30, her tee time was 12:30, was she just restless or were you working on something?  BRYAN BUSH: No, no, that was planned.  That was planned.  We planned that because, if we got here, her tee time was 12:52, you know a lot of players like to get here an hour before, so you get here at 11:30 or whatever, it's brutal hot.  So you go hit balls, you chip and putt.  And then you try to go to the first tee.  She would have been gassed by the time we got to the back nine. So we kind of flipped the page, hit balls early, ate some food, and then did a little short game before she teed off to save her.  So that she wouldn't burn out by the time we got to the back nine.  Because we didn't know if the rain was going to come and/or if it was going to stay 100 whatever degrees it is here right now.  Hot.   Q.  She said she wasn't concerned about score?  BRYAN BUSH: She never was.   Q.  She was here to learn?  BRYAN BUSH: Never was.  She was here for the experience and the opportunity to play with the best players in the world.  She proved that she can.  So it was never about score. The best part, she didn't even know what she made on 13 when we walked off the green.  She was like, what did I make?  But it was fun.  We had a great time.  I really wish her the best of luck and hope I get to work with her again some time.   Q.  Do you think maybe some day 10 or 15 years from now you'll be thinking back to these last two days saying, you know, "I knew her when" kind of thing?  BRYAN BUSH: Oh, gosh, yes.  That's the beauty of it.  Her parents are phenomenal in the fact that they do not pressure her and she does it her way.  So, no, just a true joy and she will definitely, if she wants to, be around in the days to come and years to come.  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT