BUICK OPEN
August 1, 2009
Michael Letzig
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MARK WILLIAMS: Michael, thanks for joining us. I know it was a disappointing finish for you, but overall, pretty good position in the tournament. Playing with Tiger Woods tomorrow. You've done that once before in your career. Just talk about what you've got to look forward to.   
 MICHAEL LETZIG: First of all, I played great today. As far as scrambling, I didn't hit it my best, but the putter was unreal today. So I felt like I could make anything.  
 As far as playing with Tiger, I'm very excited to have a chance to do it again. Last time I played with him, he showed me how to win a tournament. Beat he many by 10 at Memorial that final round.   
 I don't really care about winning the tournament, just more me proving myself that I can get in that situation and play well with Tiger. So I'm really looking forward to it tomorrow.  
  
MARK WILLIAMS: So you look at it as an opportunity to learn more.   
 MICHAEL LETZIG: Absolutely. Yes.   
  
MARK WILLIAMS: Questions?   
  
  Q. How do you assess your game here so far this week and then today in particular?   
 MICHAEL LETZIG: Thought it was a tee ball, I drove it so well the first couple days, and last week I drove it great. And today I was in the rough on every hole, but the putter picked up the slack and kind of kept me in it.   
  
  Q. 10-shot victory that Tiger had the last time you played together, what do you take most from that experience that you hope to carry over to tomorrow's final round?  
 MICHAEL LETZIG: Just probably won't be nervous. It was the first time I played with him last time. That's something you try to prepare yourself for since you're a little kid. You always want to play with Tiger Woods. But I'm excited to play with him tomorrow.  
  
  Q. What do you remember from playing with him the first time? His iron game's pretty good?   
 MICHAEL LETZIG: Yeah. He hits the ball very good.  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible).   
 MICHAEL LETZIG: How he reacted? I don't know. I didn't play bad. I didn't play good. He just played unreal, shot 65 at Memorial.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible).   
 MICHAEL LETZIG: Not -- I didn't try to. Just seemed like the first -- it was hard to get going on the first five or six holes.   
 We were into the wind every time it seemed like. So you just kinda gotta take advantage of those downwind holes, and the into-the-wind holes you can't fire at every flag the way we have earlier in the week.   
  
  Q. You know, coming down the stretch your last hole of this round, third round, being in the position you're in, do you feel pressure? I mean is it noticeable knowing that you were leading the tournament?  
 MICHAEL LETZIG: No. I don't care about that. It's something about that hole, I don't think I've ever made par on it. As long as I can remember, it always gives me fits.   
 The tee ball, and when I do hit the tee ball in the fairway, I thought that was just a straightforward little 9-iron chip shot, and I just missed it a yard right and it kicked way down the bunker and hit a terrible bunker shot. It was an easy bunker shot. I was thinking about making it, and next thing you know, it was 6.  
  
  Q. You said outside and you said again in here that you're not really thinking about winning the tournament. How can you not think about that? You're one stroke back.   
 MICHAEL LETZIG: Because I've put pressure on myself all year to win. I felt like I've been ready to win this year, and I've had a terrible year as far as Top 10s and giving myself a chance.   
 It's going to happen. I don't care when, but I'm not going to put pressure on myself to do it anymore. I'm just going to try and play good golf.   
 MARK WILLIAMS: Thanks, Michael. We appreciate you coming in. Have a good day tomorrow.   
 MICHAEL LETZIG: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT