BUICK OPEN
July 31, 2009
Michael Letzig
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MARK WILLIAMS: Michael, thanks for joining us at the Buick Open interview room. 65 today in Round 2, following the first round 67. Last year T12. You obviously have some pretty good vibes here.
 MICHAEL LETZIG: Yeah. Love the golf course, love the old-style golf course, with all the tree-lined fairways. For me the tree-lined fairways help you shape shot the tee and drive the ball very well.
 MARK WILLIAMS: Well, and you've had a good season so far. I think you've just missed one putt in 20 events. So a lot of consistency in your game. Has there been something you've been doing to create that consistency? 
 MICHAEL LETZIG: No. It's just been a long year. I definitely don't think it's been a good year for me; a lot of equipment changes, and some caddie changes. And it's just been a long year for, you know, if you look at the Money List, I haven't made as much as you should when you make all those cuts. 
 And last year I missed a lot of cuts. I think I only made half of them, but when I did play well, I had some Top 10s. And my brother's finally back out caddying for me, back on the bag, and we're having a lot of fun. It's starting to come together, so hopefully I can have a good run here before the FedExCup.
 MARK WILLIAMS: Questions? 

 Q. Maybe we could start with what's your brother's name and has he been with you a long time and what's the feeling being on the course with your brother?
 MICHAEL LETZIG: We just have a lot of fun out there. We have very similar personalities. And I don't know, he caddied for me most of the year on the Nationwide Tour when I played so well, and he just got done with school at Missouri State, so he's back out here, having some fun. Darren, D-A-R-R-E-N. 

 Q. Did he play golf at Missouri or anything?
 MICHAEL LETZIG: No. He's a good golfer, but he's not a motivated golfer. 

 Q. Looks like you have some signs that perhaps today and this week is coming together, you played very well at the Canadian Open. Can you just sort of talk about that? Do you feel more confident heading into here?
 MICHAEL LETZIG: Yeah. I played very well last week. I don't know. I had some -- I don't know what happened. I'm usually very solid on Sunday. I just had a terrible final round. I think I shot4-over on the last nine holes, but it was -- you know, I still left with a lot of good feelings. 
 It was such a long week, I think I just ran out of gas. And this week I've been -- I have my fiance's family here, and it's just kind of a relaxing week, not a lot of practicing, just kind of go back to the hotel and hang out. Still trying to recover from last week I think.

 Q. Where is your fiance's family from?
 MICHAEL LETZIG: Kansas City.

 Q. You mentioned a little bit about shaping the ball at the tee. Was your driving a key today and how did you do off the tee today?
 MICHAEL LETZIG: Yeah. I broke a driver at the Riviera tournament earlier in the year, and that's probably been the biggest thing holding me back all year. I've been driving the ball sideways, and got a new one two weeks ago at Milwaukee and started getting better with it every day, and I'm just hitting it great so far this week. I love it.

 Q. What did you get?
 MICHAEL LETZIG: Titleist 909 D2. 
 MARK WILLIAMS: You hit a lot more greens today than yesterday, and looks like it shows up on the scorecard with three birdies on the par-3 holes. Is that something that was noticeable from your round? 
 MICHAEL LETZIG: Just good putting. I made some real nice putts out there today, but I think it falls back to the driving. I'm hitting it so far down there, getting a lot of wedges in my hand. I'm really able to fire at a lot of flag sticks. 
 MARK WILLIAMS: Any further questions? 

 Q. Kevin Stadler was 10-under, and he really felt that being 10-under really doesn't put him in a great position or that he's really contending. Do you think that there's a lot of more scores to be had out there or is 12-under a good score at the end of the day?
 MICHAEL LETZIG: I'm not trying to compare to everybody else. I'm just taking it slow this week. 
 I know I'm playing well, and just continuing to build on the stuff I've been working on all year, you know. Finally -- it's freeing me up with everything else the way I'm driving. 
 I try not to look at every tournament as one. It's kind of a year-long race, like they say, so it's kind of just a process of just trying to play better every day. Steve Lowery could go out and shoot 9-under again and I'll be way behind. But I'm playing well, just having fun. 
 MARK WILLIAMS: Thank you, Michael for coming up. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT