JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 8, 2010
Michael Letzig
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Michael, how important is a round like this for you in the season?   
 MICHAEL LETZIG: For me it's great. I put a brand new driver in play this week, so to come out and hit 14 fairways today is a lot of confidence, because that's what's been backing my game. I've been driving it really crooked all year.  
  
  Q. With all the rain last night, the course may be a little soggy. Do you find that helping you or hurting you?  
 MICHAEL LETZIG: It makes it defenseless, especially when you drive it in the fairway and we're playing lift, clean and place, you know, you can really be aggressive, fire at all the flag sticks. You don't have to worry about it bouncing over the green when it's sticking.  
  
  Q. Did you see Goydos when you walked in?  
 MICHAEL LETZIG: Yeah, I saw him. We were kind of -- didn't really matter what we were doing. We were watching what he was doing on the back, and to make that putt there, that's incredible.  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible).   
 MICHAEL LETZIG: Just the course is in perfect condition, and it's so soft, you know, it's there for the taking.   
 The greens are perfect, especially being the first group out this morning, I made a lot of good putts, but you don't have to play defensive into the greens. The greens are so soft, I was firing at every pin today.  
  
  Q. Paul had a special day and they say you can't win a golf tournament on day 1. Despite what he's done, there's a lot of golf to be played.   
 MICHAEL LETZIG: Definitely. You know, if I play the way I played today, especially if I'm driving the ball as well as I have, it takes so much pressure off you knowing you're going to be in the fairway.  
  
  Q. Do you try and match what you do (indiscernible)?  
 MICHAEL LETZIG: Just play, you know, we had a good strategy, kind of built a strategy in the practice rounds and kind of try and stick to that through the week.  
  
  Q. Still looking for your first win.   
 MICHAEL LETZIG: I'm just trying to play good golf. You know, we deserve to win. I don't think you can just go out there and sneak in. You gotta put yourself there. It's been kind of a rough one, so we'll just keep at it.  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 MICHAEL LETZIG: Yeah, I drove the ball good, hit 14 fairways, and that takes a lot of pressure off you when you're in the fairways, especially playing with lift, clean and place. You know, you're in the fairway, you have a perfect lie every time, clean ball, you can fire at all the pins, and it helps when you make a lot of putts, too.  
  
  Q. You shoot 7-under and all of a sudden some guy's going 12-under.   
 MICHAEL LETZIG: Yeah. Definitely. He's got an amazing round going, or it was an amazing round. So it's good to see him -- I don't know how many times that's happened in TOUR history, but it's probably less than 10 people.   
  
  Q. Anything about going out early that got you going today to get your low number?  
 MICHAEL LETZIG: I think I only missed one green today. Just from like the fifth hole. Three, four, five. Yeah, got it up and down there, made a 10-footer for par, that was a good save to keep the momentum. Other than that, it was pretty straightforward.   
  
  Q. Thanks a lot.   
 MICHAEL LETZIG: Thank you.  
  
  Q. Good luck the rest of the round.   
 MICHAEL LETZIG: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT