BUICK OPEN
August 2, 2009
Michael Letzig
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Just talk about your day today playing with Tiger. That 18th hole hasn't been very kind to you all week, Michael.   
 MICHAEL LETZIG: Yeah. Same thing last year. I couldn't ever get past that hole with pars it seemed like. To try and make birdie there was just -- man, I don't know. I don't know how to hit that tee shot.   
 But overall today, just never ever got any momentum going. Just solid shots into the greens and just never really -- never really had the birdie chances I had yesterday. So kind of a spectator all day.   
  
  Q. How was your second outing with Tiger?  
 MICHAEL LETZIG: Good. I wasn't nervous this morning. Just kind of -- like I said, I don't know what it was. Just never got the momentum. I wasn't trying to play any differently. Just, I don't know, never got close to the hole. I thought I drove the ball pretty good today for the most part, compared to yesterday. Just didn't have that hot putter.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible).   
 MICHAEL LETZIG: Yeah. This is my third week in a row. Long week for me, especially after last week, so yeah, very happy to finish this way. I didn't even play a practice round this week. Just kind of showed up on Thursday, and I think that's enough to secure my card, so I'm excited for the rest of the year playing with no pressure really.   
  
  Q. Did you have much interaction with Tiger all round long?  
 MICHAEL LETZIG: We didn't talk today. I mean you know, good shot, good shot, good shot. But last time we played together we talked a little bit more, but I don't know, we were both out there trying to do our job.   
  
  Q. Michael, at Memorial you saw probably Tiger on his A game. Today you saw him when he didn't have his A game.   
 MICHAEL LETZIG: Yeah. I thought maybe he -- you could tell he just wasn't on his game early, and I kind of, you know, thought if I could get it going, maybe he would be beatable, but he just doesn't make mistakes. I mean when he does make mistakes, he recovers, and then he always makes the birdies on the easy holes when you're supposed to.   
  
  Q. Is it in some ways even more remarkable the way he can mentally hang in there than just the ball striking?  
 MICHAEL LETZIG: Yeah. He's just laughing at all of us, he's so good. Yeah. I don't know. I wish he'd stop coming to tournaments I'm coming to. (Laughs). No. I love it. If I'm going to be one of the best in the world, I gotta get comfortable playing with him, and I love it. It's just taking me a while to get going out there?  
  
  Q. Better golf this outing than the last time you played with him?  
 MICHAEL LETZIG: Yeah. Well, the last time was good. I felt like I got into a rhythm last time, I was able to make some birdies, where today, it was just, man, I don't know. My chipping was so terrible. The easy holes when I would get it up close to the green and the gimme birdie putts, I wasn't able to chip it close today. I think that's what really ultimately let me down and kept me from getting any momentum out there.   
  
  Q. Did you feel extra pressure seeing what he's doing and knowing that you had to match it?  
 MICHAEL LETZIG: No. Just trying to play my own game. Not really. I wasn't really here to win the tournament today. It was just kind of a battle with myself out there. But you try and match him, it ain't gonna happen.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT