NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: LIGHTNING v RANGERS
May 25, 2015
Derek Stepan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You've gone through a lot of elimination games.   Does this feel any different than the others, or are they all singular animals? 
DEREK STEPAN:   Yeah, I mean, I think there is, obviously, a little different stage than the one we were on before, but a lot of the same things need to be done in order to get ourselves back into it. 
We knew how much work it took to get back in the Washington series.   It's going to take just as much work in this series.

Q.   What were they doing differently last night?   Because you had a lot of zone time in the first half of that game, but probably not getting that many looks?
DEREK STEPAN:   Yeah, they did a good job defending, and when they needed to, they blocked some shots.   We just weren't able to get ‑‑ like I said, I don't think we executed very well offensively to get second looks or cleaner looks.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
DEREK STEPAN:   No, I just think our group, we just go out and play.   We find a way to get it done, even though we don't really panic.   We don't really find anything to get down on ourselves.   We play confident, we stick to the keys that let us be successful during the year.

Q.   You were talking about the first period where you guys had the momentum?   When did you think the momentum kind of switched, was it the first goal or the second? 
DEREK STEPAN:   Yeah, I think we did a lot of good things in the first.   I think in the second period, we had some power plays that really didn't generate much, might have given them a little momentum there.   But we had probably ten minutes or 12 minutes of zone time even in the second period to start, and we just weren't able to generate any good looks from that, and then they scored the goal.

Q.   Do you take confidence knowing that you've been in this spot and have played well in it? 
DEREK STEPAN:   Yeah, I don't think in the past up to this point really matters.   We know the situation we're in.   We have to stay confident.   We've just got to find a way to win a game in Tampa and just take it one game, Game 6, and we'll see what happens from there.

Q.   Does it matter, is it good for you or not if the Lightning play another game the way they played last night, more of a tight game? 
DEREK STEPAN:   I think the playoffs have been played like that for the most part, Game 1, 2‑1, and then it opened up for a couple games and it kind of got closed back down again. 
So it's going to be a tight‑checking game, and I think both teams are going to play that way.

Q.   How much did it help knowing you have a win on this ice, and going into Game 6 you got a win the last time you were on it? 
DEREK STEPAN:   Again, I don't want to go too far to what's happened in the past at this point.   We can't really worry about that.   We've just got to focus on what it's going to take to prepare ourselves to give ourselves a best chance to win a Game 6. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT