NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: LIGHTNING v RANGERS
May 21, 2015
Derek Stepan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   (No Microphone)?
DEREK STEPAN:   Well, I just think we have to do a better job of defending.   You know, again, last night was just one of those nights where both teams had a lot of space and were able to capitalize on mistakes made by the other team.   I said it last night too. 
I think Game 2 came down to penalties, and that's why they scored 6.   I thought we did good things five‑on‑five in Game 2. 
Last night, it's just the way the game went.   We obviously want to make adjustments and do a better job of defending, but we gave ourselves, you know, a good chance of winning because we were able to execute offensively at times when we weren't able to do it defensively.

Q.   Coach told us that sometimes games unfold (No Microphone)?
DEREK STEPAN:   Yeah, but I feel like they're two different scenarios.   Yes, just because of the penalties. 
I think Game 2, they scored three power‑play goals.   One, where we just got to five‑on‑five, and the shorthanded goal.   There was one five‑on‑five goal scored that night.   So I think last night unfolded that way, and like I said in Game 2, I think our discipline is what caused us to have six goals against.

Q.   (No Microphone) does it have to be a 2‑1, 1‑0 game?   Is this too high scoring to play your strengths? 
DEREK STEPAN:   Obviously, if you ask any team, they want to try to limit the other team from scoring six goals.   But our strength all year has been being able to play in those one‑goal games and win the Game 2‑1.   So there are certain things we have to make our adjustments.   But that's in any playoff series, and any type of playoff atmosphere, teams are always constantly making adjustments.   One of ours is going to be focused without the puck.

Q.   (No Microphone) and the team that you can kind of impose your will and get the game back to the structure you want and the way you want to play? 
DEREK STEPAN:   Yeah, I mean, I certainly think that it hasn't been a lack of will in our first three games.   I think I sound like a broken record, but Game 2 was discipline, and last night was one of those games where both teams.   There was a lot of space out there, and we were able to capitalize offensively. 
I said it last night, I think both teams did a lot of good things at times and bad things at times.   Our group just needs to focus on when it's going bad, staying structurally sound.   That's something we've been good at all year long is playing to our structure.

Q.   Did it kind of take you by surprise how wide open Tampa's playing? 
DEREK STEPAN:   This is a good hockey team, and they're playing extremely well.   They've got a line that's playing with a lot of confidence.   They have great chemistry together.   Their goaltender has played well for them, so we have to stay confident within our group and get ourselves ready for Game 4.   That's all we can really focus on, because we want to make sure we put ourselves on the ice for Game 4 and give ourselves a chance to go back to New York in a 2‑2 series.

Q.   Is it more alarming or concerning that (No Microphone)? 
DEREK STEPAN:   Five‑on‑five, I thought we did good things in Game 2.   We didn't give them much five‑on‑five in Game 2, but they were able to score some special team goals. 
Last night was a different story.   I wouldn't say it was our best effort five‑on‑five, but, again, we had to make adjustments when you go through a playoff series.   You're not going to play perfect throughout the series, and we were able to still be in the game where we weren't as sharp as we needed to be. 
So we've just got to get back to the Ranger hockey that we've had success with all year and stay confident with our group. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT