BAY HILL INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY COOPER TIRES
March 16, 2000
Mike Nicolette
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 MIKE NICOLETTE: How about that, bogey-free. I haven't had any of those. Let's see, 4th
hole, I made a birdie at No. 4 par 5. Hit a pretty basic drive, 2-iron, left front bunker
blasted out three feet, birdie. Birdied No. 6, another par 5. Got pretty lucky on that
hole. I kind of pulled my tee shot a little bit but it carried far enough and I had about
230 yards to the pin, which I pulled that shot, too, but got lucky and it carried the
water and was on the green and 2-putted for birdie. So pretty easy there. No. 8, hit a
pretty good tee shot, 158. Wind was fairly strong in the face. Hit 6-iron about two feet
below the hole and made that. So it was pretty -- it was a pretty basic round. I feel
pretty fortunate to shoot that low because we got a break on the weather. Obviously, the
afternoon round wasn't anything like the morning round. But that's the way golf works
sometimes.  
 
Q. Was it that windy out there?
 
 MIKE NICOLETTE: I don't think so. This morning around 9:00 or 10:00, I was out having
breakfast and the wind looked horrific. When we got out here it, was still gusty, but I
don't think it was nearly as hard as it was this morning. Of course, I wasn't out here, so
I don't know.  
 
Q. Where have you been the last four years? 
 
 MIKE NICOLETTE: Well, the last four years, the same place I've been the last 11 years.
I work for Ping and I design golf equipment for them. I left the TOUR back in '88, took a
job with Ping in '89. And I play a couple of tournaments -- my position, obviously on the
-- well, there is no position on the money list, but my category has dropped so far down
that I only get to play one tournament a year and this is it. So this is my full schedule.
 
 
Q. Is this sort of like a special holiday for you?
 
 MIKE NICOLETTE: This is a vacation for me. I mean, I bring my family down. If I play
good, great. If I don't, I'm going to Universal. Sorry, Disney. But I haven't played much
golf this year. This makes my eighth round of golf this year. So it's really hard to be
competitive with this caliber of player, and I hate to say it, but my true game will
probably show up here very shortly.  
 
Q. Why did you leave the TOUR in '88?
 
 MIKE NICOLETTE: Lack of talent and funds. Does that sum it up pretty good? I'm a good
golfer, I'm not a great golfer, and on occasion, I have a good round. But the guys that
play out here week-in and week-out, these guys are tremendous. So I'm not in their league.
Today, I was in their league. Tomorrow, you know, it's a municipal course round, I might
shoot 89. You never know. 
 
Q. You said you lack talent, but a lot of guys would love to be able to come out here
after eight rounds of golf this year and shoot the score you did on a course like this. Is
it sort of aggravating to think that that is there, occasionally, but maybe wasn't there
as much as you needed it to be before? 
 
 MIKE NICOLETTE: No. I'm really happy with what I'm doing. I love my job. I'm with my
family every night, which is very important to me, to be with my family a lot. I'm doing
what I want to do. To get to come out and play, like I said, it's a vacation, it's a
privilege for me to be here, and I'm having a great time. You know, for me to play as well
as I did -- like last year I made a few events. I made the cut here last year, which was a
big thrill. But I have a good friend that he lives here in town. His name is John Redmond.
John is a teacher and he used to teach me when I was playing full-time. So when I come
down, you know, I get my yearly lesson with him and he kind of tunes me up and off I go.
So we worked pretty hard on Sunday. We went about three or four hours together and I was
playing terrible. I was just hitting it -- but he just got me tuned up to where I can feel
the club again, I can start my ball on the line I want to start it on and move it the way
I want to move it. And that's all golf is, you need to start a ball on line and move it
one way or the other, and I'm doing that pretty well right now. Hit a lot of fairways and
hit a lot of greens, and if I could have made a few putts on the back nine, I could have
shot all right. 
 
Q. Do you play any local events back in Phoenix? 
 
 MIKE NICOLETTE: You know, I played our state Open last year, and I was lucky enough to
win that. And I played the Argentina Open last year, by accident. I was going to Argentina
to do a product introduction. I work for Ping and we you just introduced our new i3
product, the irons. And so we were down there with our distributor, and about a week
before they asked me if I was interested in playing. And I said, "Well, not really,
because I haven't played like any golf in two months." And they kind of talked me
into it and they said: "Gosh, come one, you're using the new product and just
play." I finished okay. I finished 8th. But, you know the neat thing about not
playing very much is you don't try very many spectacular things out there. I know pretty
much what my game is, what I can do and that's good enough.  
 
Q. In some ways is it maybe easier to come here and shoot 69 because you've got no
pressure, no expectations?
 
 MIKE NICOLETTE: I've got zero expectations and zero pressure. The company I work for --
this is a paid vacation. Go have a good time, you're representing us, play well, but I'm
here to just have a nice time. So there's no pressure for me.  
 
Q. Is it easier? Can you compare it with how you felt with you were on tour, grinding
trying to make a living? 
 
 MIKE NICOLETTE: When this is your only source of income and your game's not very good,
there's a lot of pressure. Sometimes you just don't see the light at the end of the
tunnel. And I was getting to that point about 1986 and '87, and I was very fortunate to
get a job with Ping, and they kind of pulled me out of the doldrums, so to speak. Gave me
new life.  
 
Q. When you did win here in '83, what was your feeling at the time? Did you think this
was the first of many or did you sort of see --
 
 MIKE NICOLETTE: You know, that was a whole other time for me, obviously. But I still
remember my mental approach when I was like back then because 1982 was the first year they
went to the all-exempt tour. '83 was the first year they went to it and '82 you had to
qualify for it. Had a nice tournament at Doral and that kind of got me way up on the money
list, and I hung in there the rest of the year, finished in the Top-125. And the thing was
when you used to have to shoot the Monday qualifyings, you'd shoot 65, but it doesn't mean
anything. Just gets you into the tournament. I knew that those rounds in me occasionally.
I'd say, one of those days I'm going to shoot that 65 on Thursday and just kind of hang in
there. And I did that here. You know, I was very fortunate to win one time. 
 
Q. But you beat Norman in a playoff; right? 
 
 MIKE NICOLETTE: I ended up winning, but Greg 3-putted. Beating is when you make a
birdie. He lost. 
 
Q. Is it difficult not to have flashbacks? 
 
 MIKE NICOLETTE: You know, I have that all the time but try to suppress those things. 
 
Q. What do you remember about that last day when you won, at this point? 
 
 MIKE NICOLETTE: You know, it was a lot of fun to win, and the shot that -- the only
shot I remember really vividly was my last shot on 18, because, you know, Greg hits it so
far, and I don't hit it anywhere near him. And I kind of fizzled a drive into the right
rough and Greg had just, you know 320 bong down the middle. And I hit 215 yards to carrie
-- there was a ball cad out there at the time, it wasn't rocks. My caddie was trying to
get me to lay up with a 7-iron over to the left of it. He says, hit it over there, and you
can chip across and maybe a 4 and maybe a win; maybe Greg will do -- who knows. I went,
you know what, I said, "You know what, I'm going right at that pin. I'm going to hit
a 5-iron and I'm going to try to hit a big knuckleball." If it flies it's going to be
perfect, but if it didn't, it's going to drop 40 yards short. And as soon as it came off
the club, I remember saying "get down" and it flew all the way to the back
fringe. That was my most memorable shot at that time, and it turned out to be a good one.  
 
Q. That because was the final hole of regulation or that was the playoff?
 
 MIKE NICOLETTE: Yeah. And the playoff hole, the 15th hole, you know, Greg kind of
charged a putt from about 20 feet, knocked it about five feet by and missed it coming
back, and I had about a 3-footer for par and made it. I'll tell you something, somebody
took a picture of me right when the ball was leaving the putter; my eyes were closed. I
don't know if I blinked or what, but it went in.  
 
Q. What exactly do you do for Ping?
 
 MIKE NICOLETTE: I design golf equipment for them. There's a design team in our
engineering department made up of probably eight guys, and I kind of critique all of the
things that our engineers are doing. And I think we have a real winner with the i3 iron,
too. Our sales are basically record sales right now. The product is a great product.
Virtually all of our TOUR players have them in the bag now, which speaks volumes. I'm not
an engineer by trade. But I'm a good critiquer.  
 
Q. The media guide mentioned something about back problems, was that later on? 
 
 MIKE NICOLETTE: Let's see in '96, I had back surgery. I had back problems my whole
life. In fact, when I was playing the TOUR, I had back problems. It's just one of those
things that you deal with where it finally blew out totally to the point where I virtually
couldn't move. So I had to have surgery and went very well obviously, I'm here. But I was
out of golf about three years there.  
 
Q. It didn't contribute to you not playing anymore?
 
 MIKE NICOLETTE: Not at that time. These medical extensions these guys have now, they
have no idea how lucky they are, because I remember in my day, my back blew out on me, and
there's no such thing as, oh, you had to sit out for 10 tournaments, gee. That didn't
happen back then when I was playing. You know, these guys they have their fingers hurting
so they are not going to play golf for six weeks, and if the guy misses his card by a
couple thousand dollars, he gets five tournaments or something to make it up the next
year. It's like, wow, that's pretty good stuff. That didn't happen when I was playing. 
 
Q. How often do people recognize you now as a guy who won at Bay Hill once? 
 
 MIKE NICOLETTE: Most people think I'm Corey Pavin. You know, you get the profile
(Laughter.) If you're not up on your golf trivia, you have no idea who I am.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT