COLLEGE WORLD SERIES: BATON ROUGE REGIONAL
June 4, 2017
Wayne Graham
Tristan Gray
Jackson Parthasarathy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
LSU - 5, Rice - 0 
THE MODERATOR: Coach, an opening statement?   
COACH GRAHAM: It's obvious that LSU had great pitching, and they had a great day on defense.  I thought our guys competed well.  A little bit tired, but we were behind the eight ball once we got in the loser's bracket.   
But I'm really proud of our guys and their effort.  We hung in there tonight.  Another couple of hits, and it would have been a close game.  They never quit fighting, as evidenced by that last inning.  But that guy came in, that was pretty good stuff.  That's tough.   
But, anyway, we've had a good year, and I hope LSU goes on and wins the National Championship because they're a fine club, and they treat people right.   
 Q.  Jackson, I was told you threw the most innings for the Owls in this Regional, and the most innings in the last week that you threw all year; is that correct?  
JACKSON PARTHASARATHY: Yeah, that's correct.   
 Q.  Talk a little bit about your week here?  
JACKSON PARTHASARATHY: I really hadn't thrown many innings coming into this weekend because I was coming off an injury this year.  But I was glad to get a chance to fill up some innings for us.   
 Q.  Tristan Gray, great week offensively.  Talk about your week here and also the Regional, please?  
TRISTAN GRAY: Yeah, I mean, once I heard that we were coming back here or saw that we were coming back here, it was just crazy because this time last year we were in the same position.  So I think that had a lot to do with just coming in and trying to enjoy this.  It's not too often that you get to play in front of a crowd like this, SEC environment.   
I just kind of took every at-bat the way I wanted to and didn't want to give anything away.  I just enjoyed every moment.   
 Q.  Graham, your thoughts on the freshman starter for LSU and how much you might have known about him being from Texas?  
COACH GRAHAM: He's very advanced in terms of demeanor and knowing how to pitch.  He's a real pitcher, there's no doubt.  You see some -- rarely, you see someone like that, and he really knows what he's doing.  He has a purpose with every pitch.  That's very obvious.  Most of the time he carries out that purpose.  He's a fine pitcher.   
 Q.  Coach, about Walker and your own pitcher just how many times in this sort of atmosphere and elimination game have you seen a starter do what Walker did and a guy come out of the bullpen and match him with zeros once he got to that point in the game?  
COACH GRAHAM: It was really two fine pitching performances.  You know, it's a joy for us because Jackson's going to be back with us next year.  I'm sure it's a joy for LSU because he got a lot of time with him.  This is not the last time you're going to see him pitch a great game or Jackson.  They're going to be factors from now on.   
 Q.  Tristan, what made him such a challenge today, Walker?  
TRISTAN GRAY: Like Coach said, he had a plan with every pitch.  I knew going into it after my first at-bat and seeing what he had done to the previous hitters that he was going to come at you, but he was going to be hitting spots.  So I was just kind of trying to figure out when that pitch is going to come that he may mess up or if I can try to figure out maybe get ahead of him and try to guess the right pitch.   
But, all in all, I think he pitched a really good game today and had a lot of command.  I think that was part of his success.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT