ROLEX MONTE-CARLO MASTERS
April 16, 2019
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








T. FRITZ/J. Tsonga
6-4, 2-0 [Ret.]
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.
Q. Can you tell us what happened today and what happened in the court today, what happened before, then what happened afterwards?  Do you have any information on your injury?
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: What happened was that I arrived, let me think, from Marrakech, Sunday evening, and then I arrived here.  I went to hit some balls yesterday, that's Monday, and that's it.
Today I went out there, and I was feeling a little pain in the lower part of my back.  Today I just couldn't play at my best level.  I had that little pain in the lower part of my back, and I lacked energy.  So I couldn't really defend my chances of winning, so that's it.
Q. So there's nothing really to worry about?  It's more of a generalized fatigue or is it something else?
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Well, it goes a little further than a little fatigue, because I actually lose lots of energy when I have to travel by plane.  As I was saying, I had a little pain in the lower part of my back.  I also have problems to play tournament after tournament.  Whenever I have to take the plane in between, I lose lots of energy.
So there is nothing really serious, but mind you, for me, this is sort of normal.  I try to be patient.  I try to win.  Sometimes I can; sometimes I can't.  But that's the way it is.  And it is a real pity, but at least I try.  If I can make it, then I go back home, try to rest, and I try again.
Q. Can you manage to say to yourself, Next time is going to be better?  Or is it very unnerving?
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Well, of course it is sort of heavy on my mind, because I would love to play in good shape.  But all along my career, it's been difficult.  The years go by, and it is really frustrating, to be honest.  But I know that when I'm in good shape I can do good things, so I try to keep myself motivated.
Q. In the tennis tour, sometimes we have to travel far, but are you trying to avoid the planes and trying to travel by train or by car, like some players that were afraid of flying, which is another problem?
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: I'm trying to do that whenever it is possible, but it is not easy to go by train to Indian Wells or Cincinnati (smiling).
So I try to adapt as best as possible my means of transportation so that I can avoid the plane and stay at sea level whenever possible, and that's it.
Q. Do you have to rest, I suppose?  What is your program for the next days?
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Well, I will need to have a medical follow-up so that I won't injure myself even more.  I need to take enough time to rest and try to recover, and then I need to take some blood samples to check all parameters and to see when I will be able to come back without any risk.
Then I will go back quietly, normally, and I'll try to go -- we haven't finalized our program yet, but I'll try to go to Madrid, and probably one week before Madrid I will go to Barcelona, train with Sergi, and then take the train to Madrid.
Q. I asked the same question to the other players about what do you think of Notre-Dame.  What did you feel or think when you saw the images of the fire?
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: I think I'm going to say the same thing, of course.  I think that everybody must have answered the same.  It is something that is really sad for the French people but also for everybody, for the whole world, actually, because this was a monument that was well known all over the world.
It was really special in Paris, therefore in France, so we are really proud of that monument.  We are really sad of what happened yesterday.
Q. What do you think of Court No. 1 and the fact that it is going to be destroyed?  Have you ever played on that court?
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: No.
Q. Do you regret not having played on that court?
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: No, no, I'm not going to regret it, because I didn't like the noise.  It had a big echo.  You had the impression that you were hitting the ball twice.  So, no, I'm not going to regret it.
They're going to destroy it, because they want to make room for something else, and I suppose that that something else is something good.  Therefore, I don't really ask myself that question.
Of course that is not going to be like the destruction of Notre-Dame.  (Laughter.)






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT