AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 16, 2014
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. TSONGA/T. Bellucci
  7‑6, 6‑4, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How important do you think it was to win the first set today?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   I think it was really important.   Also because we didn't know the roof would be closed, so play three sets ‑ four sets, sorry ‑ into the heat is tough. 
So it was good for me to win this one in straight sets.

Q.   What did you make of the heat?   Was it too hot to play in the first set?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   No, today it was okay.   I mean, I had a different feeling than other days.   I don't know why.   Maybe because before yesterday it was my first match. 
But today it was ‑‑of course, it was hot, but, yeah, I had good feelings.

Q.   It was obvious that your opponent was having problems.   Did this affect your game in some way?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yeah, in some way, because it's always difficult to play a guy who is used to play from baseline, and after a few games, you know, come to the net every point and try to win the point in two shots.   So it was a bit different.
But anyway it was good for me that he played like this, because it's not his game, and it's good for me to win this match a little bit easier.

Q.   Did the fans help motivate you today?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   What?   Sorry.

Q.   Did your fans motivate you today? 
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yeah, always.   Always they give me the support, and for me it's a lot of advantage.

Q.   Can you just explain why you didn't have any problems?   It seemed like you weren't sweating that much and you were cheering your victory, jumping in the air, and really physically... 
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   No, the thing is first we played two sets under the roof, and also, he played quallies.   He had a tough match two days ago, and me, I just play one match and that's it.   It makes the difference.
And I'm maybe physically pretty good.   (Laughter.)   It's an option.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT