AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 14, 2014
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. TSONGA/F. Volandri
  7‑5, 6‑3, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Straightforward for you?   Does it feel good?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yeah, feels okay.   Was pretty hot, pretty difficult to feel the ball because condition was tough.  
Anyway, I did the job, so it's good.  
   
 Q.   Everyone's talking about the heat.   How hot did it feel out there on court?   Some of the hottest conditions you played in?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yeah, I think it's maybe the hottest condition I played in.   I remember a match I played against Nishikori a few years ago which was also tough.   We knew before it's gonna be difficult today, and it was, so it's good to finish that and look for the next round.  
   
 Q.   Obviously it's been a few years since you were in the final here, but how do you feel about sort of your chance of going deep over the next couple of weeks?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   I had a good preparation.   I feel 100% now, so, you know, I believe in myself and I will give everything on the court.  
   
 Q.   You seem to be having trouble with your shoes, with getting grip out there.   Was that just the heat?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yeah, because of the heat, you know, the material of the shoes, you know, it's really becomes, you know, not really hard.   Like, I don't know how to say it in English.   
But anyway, it's not good for our shoes when it's hot like this.   
   
 Q.   A general question.   You travel the world, make lots of money, you meet interesting people.   What's the best part of being Jo‑Willy Tsonga?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   That's a good question (smiling).   I will say when I come back home and I see my family.   That's the best part, because, you know, always enjoy it because I don't have the possibilities to see them a lot.   
So when I come back, you know, it's always a party (smiling).   It's great.   
   
 Q.   How many times have you come, would you say, you've come to Melbourne Park feeling 100% of the years that you've played here?   How many times when you come to Melbourne Park for the Australian Open do you feel 100% in the past, do you think?   Because you have had injury problems in the past.   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   I was always in good shape when I came to the Australian, because before that you have time to fix, you know, every injury.   You have time to fix your game.   You have time to work on your fitness.   
So I always come to the Australian with good sensation.   I think the only one I didn't play really well was in 2011.   I had this problem in my hips.   That's it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT