BNP PARIBAS MASTERS
October 29, 2013
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 K. NISHIKORI/J. Tsonga
  1‑6, 7‑6, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French, please.   
   
 Q.   Your knee was hurting?   You had cramps?   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   It was more cramps than the pain in my knee.   It's a bit complicated, because I'm not fit enough.   It was difficult for me to practice lately.   I was perspiring a lot, and there was the tension because of the match.   
From the start today I put into that match a lot of intensity.   I really wanted to do my best.   I didn't want to think about my knee.   I wanted to give it all, and my knee reminded me it was there.  
   
 Q.   Yeah, for you, Bercy is very special and you wanted to be here, but at the same time you can't because your knee is not totally ready and you're not fit; so you were sort of caught in between the two?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yes, that's right, but I chose to play.   I could have beaten many players today, and I believe he played a very solid match.   I believe he managed well, because I could have won that match.   He was very solid, especially during the important moments of the match.  
I have seen myself be in better shape, but a few weeks ago.   That's what my physio was saying just now that normally I shouldn't even be here.   We even wondered if we would totally stop or if we would continue the season, and I decided to continue this season.   
I thought it was better, and I think I'm happy because now I won some points, I'm not in the Masters, so we decided to go to the end.   
So I must say that in the match today it's not only the pain in the knee that prevented me from winning.   I think it was mainly the cramps.  
I went to the end of what I could do, and now I have time to prepare for the next season.  
   
 Q.   Both of you had cramps in the third set.   I think he had a massage on his left leg.   But in the tiebreaker, at the end he made aces; you made double faults.   Was the difference a mental difference?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   I don't know.   I played him two weeks ago and he totally collapsed physically at the end.   I don't know if it's a mental thing, because I was very pumped up today.   I was very solid in my mind and I was happy with what I was doing.  
I don't know.   What is your definition of mental ability?   If he we don't have the same definition, the question is biased.   
   
 Q.   During the first set and a bit more even, was that the only moment since Metz where you were really able to lean on your leg and move right?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yes, yes.   I can see something positive there because it's the only match where I could play as I play usually.   I haven't played like that for a long time.  
I played the kind of tennis I have to play all the time, and that's why I'm not totally down.   I believe there is something I can do for the future.   
Of course, I really have to improve my physical condition.   I have to work a lot and very hard during the break.   But if I'm able to play very solid matches like I played for the first set, it's going to be good.  
   
 Q.   So that means you're not going to stop?   Are you going to rest?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yeah, yeah, I'm going to rest and I'll start again.   I think I'll have a break, two‑week break.  
   
 Q.   And if you're a substitute for the Masters, are you going to go?   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   I don't know.   
   
 Q.   You said you wanted to give it all.   Do you believe your two coaches supported you in this?   Did they say, Go ahead, go ahead, or did they say something else?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   No, no, they supported me.   If I decide to go on the court, it means that I will give it all.   That's for sure.   That was the first tournament we were doing together.   But I hope there will be many others after that.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT