AEGON CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 14, 2013
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. TSONGA/D. Kudla
  6‑3, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You're through to the semi, obviously, but Andy is coming back from injury.   You haven't beaten him on grass.   What do you have to change up tomorrow to make that happen?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   You know, every time it was big match.   The last one I played against him here it was really close, because I was not favorite to win it.   I will try to do the same thing and try to be more consistent on big point.   That's it.  
   
 Q.   Is it a very small margin between the two of you?   Is there a very small difference?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   I mean, on grass, every time, you know, the game can turn, you know, really quick.  
So, yeah, I think the margin is not that big.   I'm sure I can do something.   
   
 Q.   I remember you told me last year when you come away from Roland Garros and you come here, you suddenly almost feel like you're going on vacation, you feel far, far less pressure.   Is that still the same?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yeah.   (Smiling.)   It's still the same.  
I mean, you know, for me, anyway, this week it's good to win tournament like this because it's Queen's, and for me it means, you know, something.  
But anyway, the most important thing for me here is to play on grass, to spend time on grass, and of course when I play the semis, you know, I want to win because it's not because it's less pressure or more; it's just because it's Queen's.   That's it.   (Smiling.)  
But first, you know, I don't want to be injured because the season is long, and I have a Grand Slam where I can play, where I can do something well.   So, you know, I still feel like ‑‑I feel free here, really.   
   
 Q.   And given what you did on the clay last week, getting as far as you did at Roland Garros, is grass still your favorite surface?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   No.   I mean, grass is not my favorite surface.   I never call it like this.   I always said that I like to play on because I can play tennis that I cannot play on other surface.   I can play some serve and volley, I can do some tricky shot, I can play a different game.  
But, you know, I like to play tennis, and that's it.   Whatever the surface, you know, I like to play tennis.   That's it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT