MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 20, 2013
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. NADAL/J. Tsonga
  6‑3, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French. 

Q.   What did you think of the conditions?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Well, I was not annoyed by the bad conditions with a lot of wind because, anyway, they were the same for both ‑   although they were not to my advantage. 

Q.   But when you stepped into the court, did you start thinking already that the wind would be a problem?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   No, I was ready to play.   But, of course, these conditions are more favorable for him because he plays with a lot of security and a lot of margin on his shots. 
His game is rather to make the opponent miss.   For me, it's better to play indoors because then I can hit the lines more easily. 

Q.   At the end of the match we saw you starting to attack a lot, play serve and volley.   You were rather successful.   Would that be a possible solution for the future?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   I always try to be aggressive when I play him.   It's the only way for me.   If I stay back, there's no way I can win.   So I tried to do that. 
But I can't rush to the net either because otherwise he hits a passing shot.   90% of the time I lose the point.   So I have to have the right mix between patience and aggressiveness.

Q.   Pushing him into a tiebreak must give you more confidence for the future. 
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   No, because I was not able to win a set.   Of course, against a player like him on clay, that result is better than 6‑2, 6‑3.   It is better to make it difficult for him like I did today in the end because then I can think maybe next time, if the conditions are better, I might do better. 

Q.   You didn't have time to work after the Davis Cup and still you played a wonderful tournament.   Isn't that positive?   Of course, there's a long way until the French Open still. 
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Well, it's very good because in the beginning of this season I had ups and downs, so now I feel I have a good rhythm and I'm on a roll.   I really feel eager to practice a lot.   Spring has come.   The terraces and cafes are full.   It's the best time of the year for me. 

Q.   We know he's able to return incredible shots.   We saw you on television smiling at times you were so amazed. 
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Well, he did more often than usual today.   He was extremely good today.   And also this is what I call the champion's luck.   The top players are able to do that. 
I remember the match between Stan and Roger where Stan could have won, and Roger at the last minute just decided to go for it and hit the frame with his racquet and put the ball on the line, and then he won.   So the best players often have that kind of luck. 
I remember my match against Djokovic.   I had played a very good passing shot.   He was at a loss.   He just decided to anticipate the right side. 

Q.   But you also have what you call the champion's luck.   At 5‑1 in the second set it seemed you had some of it. 
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Well, when I'm talking about 'luck,' I'm talking about when you play the ball far too long and the wind suddenly blows and brings it back into the court.   That's what I'm talking about.   It can happen to me, too, of course.   When I'm in a very bad position against a very lower‑ranked player, I'm able to pull out of the bad situation thanks to that kind of luck sometimes. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT