MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 18, 2013
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. TSONGA/J. Melzer
  6‑3, 6‑0 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French.   
   
 Q.   Was it a formality?   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   I don't know.   He's a good player.   I had to play my match.   
Today I believe he was not 100% so he couldn't play his best.   But I still had to do it.   
   
 Q.   Are you satisfied with your game?   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Well, it's difficult to assess my game because he was not really playing his best.   But I'm happy I was able to do the job.   When you play tennis, you always try for perfection.   Of course, sometimes you can't reach that.   
I'm happy with my game today.   Of course, there are always some things you can improve.   
   
 Q.   But you're having fun on the court, are you?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Well, on clay it's easier to hit harder because it is slower so you have time to prepare your shots.   There are many rallies to play.   Indeed, I enjoyed myself.   
   
 Q.   Can you tell us how you celebrated your birthday.   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Well, I had room service in my hotel room.   I was there alone.   But I spent my time on Skype and on my phone.   My friends prepared a present for me.   They all came together in Paris and did a 'Harlem Shake'.   It was really funny.   
   
 Q.   What about your next round?   The serious things are going to start.   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   They started already since the beginning of the tournament.   I played good players, among them Jurgen, who was among the top 10 not long ago.   
The two players I might meet in the next round are extremely good.   One is a good clay court specialist, having good results on that surface, and Andy is at his top level right now.   
Either way it's going to be a very complicated game.   
   
 Q.   Do you believe it's easier to play Murray on clay?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   I know he didn't have his best results on clay, but you only can tell after the match.   Tennis is a story between two compatibilities.   That means it depends on my opponent.   Sometimes I play a better opponent, and it's easier for me because his game suits mine.   Other times I play a lower‑ranked player and then I have trouble because his game gives me trouble.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel old?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Well, a bit older than yesterday (smiling).   
Yes, indeed, maybe I am a little bit old.   Well, not old, but I'm adding on some years.   Yesterday my mother told me that now I'm looking my age.   
   
 Q.   And how did you take that?   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Oh, I thought it was nice.   It means I'm more mature.   
   
 Q.   Do you believe tennis is changing, because now players can play a lot longer than before?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Well, when you see a player like Haas, you see it is possible.   Others than him also did it.   
I think with the progress made by all the physiologists, all the help we get with our joints, our bodies, now fewer players get surgery during their career.   All this helps us protect our joints which is, in fact, the major problem in tennis.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel better than two or three years ago?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   A lot better.   Now I have pain nowhere.   Before it was really tough waking up in the morning.   
   
 Q.   Is that since the guru game?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   It's true that since I've been working with Michel things have changed a lot for me.   In fact, when I started working with him, it was when I was crying for help.   It was very difficult to get myself to go on the court, and then Superman came.   
   
 Q.   What is your ambition in this tournament?   Are you just taking things round by round?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   I always have ambition.   I don't need to have rounds.   
   
 Q.   But how far would you like to go here?   It's a very nice tournament.   So I guess you can't help looking further in the draw.   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Well, each time I play I give everything I have.   There are some things I can't control, because the other player also tries his best.   
But I am always someone very ambitious.   I have the hunger to win.   I will always have that as long as I play.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT