MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 16, 2013
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. TSONGA/N. Davydenko
  7‑6, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French, please. 

Q.   That's a very good start.   He can be a tricky player. 
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yes, it was a pretty good start.   But I can do better.   I got broken from the start.   But I did play a solid match and I was able to manage the situation quite well. 
Of course, I didn't play a huge match.   I can do better.   But I'm happy I won because he can be a very dangerous player.   He's proven it in the past.   If I was able to win, it means I was able also to do something good on the court. 

Q.   Gilles was talking about how difficult it was to come back from Argentina.   What about you? 
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   It's true that it is not easy.   We had a long tour.   We are jetlagged.   During that time there was a lot of tension.   I believe all of us had a letdown after that. 
I didn't play at all last week.   I was with my family.   Long time no see.   Of course, it was good for me mentally.   I feel really good in my mind, but I didn't really prepare for this tournament. 
Anyway, I'm coming here very eager to play. 

Q.   What about your next opponent?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   I don't know who it's going to be yet.   I will probably play Thursday. 

Q.   The day off, is it a positive for you, getting over the jetlag and so on?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yes, I will have time to adapt a bit better to the surface and to feel better with my game.   I will work tonight and tomorrow.   Tonight it will be physical conditioning, and tomorrow I'll hit a little bit. 

Q.   What about Rasheed?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   He will come next week.   We try to organize his trips intelligently knowing he lives in Australia, he has a little girl.   So it makes sense that he would come just for the next two Masters Series followed by the French Open and Wimbledon, which will be two months in a row for him. 
It was logical that he would stay a bit longer at home this week because I'm just coming back from Argentina.   I have no real preparation for this tournament.   So it's not that I don't want to do well here, but there's going to be a long stretch for him after that. 

Q.   Apparently Djokovic is playing, maybe against Youzhny.   Is that good news? 
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yes, it is.   Novak is one of the major players in tennis right now.   I believe it's good for the tournament to have him participate in the tournament.   It is positive. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT