SONY OPEN TENNIS
March 23, 2013
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. TSONGA/V. Troicki
  7‑6, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Bouncing back from the tiebreaker, had some momentum changes starting the second set.   You were able to kind of get past that first set.   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yeah, I didn't play really good in this first set.   Him, too, for sure.   (Smiling.)  
In the tiebreak I just tried to take my chance, because on the one side of the court was tough to play because of the wind and because you are down the hill when you are on the left side.  
It was tough to win some points on this side.   I start the tiebreak there and I decide, you know, to play few serve and volleys and be aggressive.  
It works pretty well, and after that I miss many things.   But, you know, that kind of match is always good to win, because, I mean, win when I play like this, it's really good.  
   
 Q.   Will you go to Buenos Aires to play Davis Cup?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Tomorrow.   (Smiling.)  
No, no, I'm joking.   I'm joking.   
When we will finish here I think we will go there.  
   
 Q.   Thinking about Davis Cup because we have no players playing here.   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yeah, that's fine.   
   
 Q.   Do you know something about the players for Argentina?   Because they lost yesterday, Nalbandian, Del Potro.   Many players for Argentina lost here very quickly.   What do you think about the Argentinian players?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   I mean, they still very good players and they will stay very good players.  
You know, for them, I don't know if it's something positive or negative to lose early here, but anyway, they will have time to go back and play on clay court anyway.   
For the Davis Cup I think it's going to be something positive for them because they will practice on clay and they will get used to it.  
I didn't play on clay since Roland Garros last year, so it's going to be tough, you know, to get used to it.  
   
 Q.   In Argentina everybody say that you're favorite because of the ranking, the moment.   What do you think about that?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   I think we are not favorite for the moment.   I mean, you still have Del Potro who's got a better ranking than me.   You still have Nalbandian who won, you know, some big tournament in the past.   When you have a champion like this, you know, it stay forever.  
So I think for one match, you know, is very dangerous.   And then you have some guys who are very, how I say that, angry, like Berlocq, I'm sure, to fight for their country.   
So anyway, it's going to be a good match against two good teams, and I think there is no favorite on this one.   Maybe you have the advantage because you play at home.  
   
 Q.   What do you feel about is better for you:   win many games here, go to Buenos Aires, to go quickly to prepare for the Davis Cup match?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yeah, well, I mean, it's always better to get used to the clay.   But I have to play this tournament.   It's also my job.   
And, yeah, right after I will go to clay, start to practice, and that's it.   I have no choice.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT