DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS MEN
February 26, 2013
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. LLODRA/J. Tsonga
  7‑6, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Can you just tell us what was difficult for you today and how did you feel on the court?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Well, it was difficult.   The umpire, I mean, he was really difficult and that's it.   And then I will know that I was in France yesterday.   I just arrived.   
It was tough to have a good reaction, to react well.   And, yeah, I mean, it's not easy because I have no reason, I mean, I cannot play properly with Michael because he's playing everything in two, three shots.   So you don't have time really to get a good rhythm.  
When you're not so good physically, it's tough to have a very good precision and to react really fast.   
   
 Q.   Did you arrive today to Dubai?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   No, I arrived yesterday.   That's it.   
   
 Q.   How tough is it going from indoors to outdoors in conditions like here?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   No, today was not problem.   I think it was okay.   You know, I was feeling the ball great.   I was just not enough quick on the court.   My reaction was a bit late all the time.  
So that's why.   That's why.   But I was feeling okay.  
   
 Q.   Are you going to leave right away?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yeah.   (Smiling.)  
You want me to stay?   
   
 Q.   Tomas arrived this morning from the final against you in Marseilles.   He had a 20‑minute warmup and he's straight into his match.   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Who played?   
   
 Q.   Tomas Berdych played Rajeev Ram and he won, but the scheduling must be very tough.  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yeah, but if I win the first set like I normally did, because the first set was win.   I mean, I did my first serve.   The umpire said I was after the hit, and we replayed the point.   So normally it's finished.  
So maybe‑‑ maybe if I win the first set it give me enough energy, you know, maybe to play in the second and maybe win.  
But after that, you know‑‑ I mean, you know, I'm just disappointed and then I'm scared.   I said, Okay, now what's happen if I do the fault?   I was supposed to win this set, and you do like two double faults because you're thinking about it.   That's it.  
   
 Q.   Sorry, but when you were talking about the umpire's decision, where was that in the first set?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   It was set point.   I served my first serve.   My first serve was in.   The line umpire said, Out.   But he said, Out, after the hit.   Michael give the ball back, you know, in the stands.   And he said, Replay the point.   The ball was good.  
   
 Q.   And you said that obviously throws you off.   When you lose a point like that, I mean...   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yeah, when you lose a point like that, then I made ‑‑I don't know what I made after that.   I don't know what I made.   Then you start to think, and double fault and second one, and the guy is back.   
Then you feel like you're already tired, but, you know, you have in your mind, you know, that you still can win and play well, but when something like this happen, you know, it give you like ‑‑it's like if somebody punch you, and then it's tough to get up.  
   
 Q.   How difficult is it to adjust from the indoor courts of Marseilles to these very fast courts here?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Oh, that's fine.   I was hitting the ball okay.   Just physically ‑‑ because you play, you take the flight, you have the jet lag.   Yeah, that's why it's tough.   
That's it.   But it's for everybody like that.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT