BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 9, 2012
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/J. Tsonga
  6‑2, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You had a great tournament last year reaching the finals.   This year not so good.   Can you explain what the difference is.   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   The difference is maybe I played a better tennis last year.   I don't know.   But nobody knows because is difficult to evaluate the level, you know, of every player.   
So maybe this year they was just better than last year, and that's it.   And me, maybe I was at the same level, maybe not, maybe better.   But, you know, it's always difficult to say.   
   
 Q.   What positives will you take away from your performances this week and what does it mean to you to play in this tournament?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   You know, anyway I will keep some positive things.   I played some really good players.   You know, I was not that far.   So I'm sure, you know, if I work a lot, if I improve, I will have a chance to beat them for the next season.   
So, yeah, that's it.   
   
 Q.   Your level seemed to jump up in the second set.   Is there anything in particular you would say was the reason for that?   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   You know, I'm somebody who never give up.   So, you know, sometimes you play, you not playing a good tennis, and you keep fighting, you keep believe in you, and then it comes better and better, and that's it.   
   
 Q.   You have an exhibition tournament to play in Sao Paulo.   Are you planning to start planning for the next season or just having a good time?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   No.   For sure it will give me the opportunity to work on some stroke.   We'll see.   But, anyway, it will be during my preparation, so it's going to be good to play some points.   
   
 Q.   How do you see the final of the Davis Cup?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   I think it's going to be a good final because they're playing in Czech Republic, so they will play on the surface they like, the Czech, I mean.   
Berdych is okay.   You know, there is a player who you have to be careful, it's Mr. Stepanek.   I mean, I'm sure he prepared the final and he's going to be fit for the final.   They're both two very good player.   They have a strong doubles.   So it's going to be good to watch.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT