BNP PARIBAS MASTERS
October 30, 2012
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. TSONGA/J. Benneteau
  6‑2, 4‑6, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French, please. 

Q.   Would you say the match was tense and frustrating?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yes.   There was a lot of tension, a lot of intensity, a very complicated first round for me.
I fought until the end.   I hung in there, and I'm happy for the way I pulled it out because it was not easy.

Q.   Is it a special emotion for you to see Rasheed watching you in the stands?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Well, it's great for me, but I still remained focused on my tennis because the common goal we have, both of us, is to improve.   So I focus on what I have to do.
For the time being, he's rather in a situation of just watching how I'm doing, and I just try to do what I do best.   Sometimes I do wrong things, of course, but I know I will be able to work on these things in the following weeks.

Q.   During the first two sets you had problems with your serve, and you served extremely well in the third set.   How can you explain that you only had 50% first serves in the first two sets and a higher percentage in the third one. 
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   In the third set I believe I was in a different state of mind.   I had other intentions, and it worked out for me.   Maybe things went my way.   Sometimes against Julien I serve very hard, and the ball comes back to me even faster. 
But anyway, I'm not going to dwell on my particular tennis level this match or whatever.   It was just a first round and it was against Julien.   He had nothing to lose.   He was hitting hard.   He was moving forward.
So I'm not going to remember my tennis level.   I will just remember the way I fought, the way I stayed there.   I never gave up.   Not a single point I let go.   In the end I won, and this is what I will remember.

Q.   You said the match was complicated.   The fact that Julien beat you twice indoors in Lyon and Marseilles was something you remembered?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   No.   Of course he beat me there in Lyon and Marseilles, but in those two events let's say the challenge is not as big than in other matches like in the US Open when I played him or in the French Open.
Where did I play him again?   In Wimbledon and here in this tournament already.   
So these two matches maybe are not a reference, but he was playing well then.   And I think when he plays against me he usually is even more eager to do well than against anybody else.   Also, he doesn't have much to lose.   So of course he plays good tennis. 

Q.   Last year you said that here the balls were slow, but apparently the surface is even slower this year.   Do you feel it's difficult to be aggressive on this kind of surface?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   In fact, I changed my equipment a few months ago, so I don't feel the conditions in the same way as I did last year.   So this year I don't think it's slower than elsewhere or not faster, either.   It doesn't bother me.

Q.   Do you already have your plane ticket for London, or are you maybe waiting to make sure there's not going to be a final Tipsarevic/Almagro? 
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Oh, well, I don't need a plane ticket.   I'm going to swim to London.

Q.   More seriously. 
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Well, honestly I have no idea, because if I had to take care of my plane tickets, I would have to do another job.   I would have to become a travel agency.   So I didn't really think about that.

Q.   You lost the habit of having a debriefing after each match with a coach.   How does it feel doing that now?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   It's great. 

Q.   Can you say something about it?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   No, no.   I think it's good.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT