CHINA OPEN
October 7, 2012
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DJOKOVIC/J. Tsonga
  7‑6, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in Chinese, please. 

Q.   Please make comments on this match.   Actually, for the first set, it seems that you are a little bit in rush in the later part of the first set.   That's why you have more errors than before.   Is that correct? 
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yeah, I think it was a good match.   I mean, I missed maybe something in the middle of the first set.   I was a break up, and I was playing well. 
But then he played solid.   It was really difficult, you know, to control him.   You know, I just tried to play my game, to be aggressive.
But, you know, against a player like this, for the moment my level is not enough high, and it's not enough, you know, to beat him. 

Q.   Actually, in the first set in the middle, you seemed to communicate with the umpire.   What was going on there?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   It happens sometimes.   For myself, too much time.   (Smiling.) 
I mean, I talk to him because I was thinking, you know, I hit the ball at the same time as the referee, you know, said, Out.   
It's supposed to be ‑‑it's supposed to be, you know, a first serve and not the point lost.   So that's why I discuss, you know, with the umpire. 
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English. 

Q.   What was the umpire's response when you asked him that?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   He said the umpire didn't disturb me.   That's it.   (Smiling.)   I mean, he just say, Fault, and so it didn't disturb me. 

Q.   Did that call disturb you?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   I mean, of course.   If there is somebody, you know, behind you screaming when you play, of course it disturb me.   It's not only about that.   When the guy say, Fault, you know, you relax more than if he say nothing. 

Q.   How much tougher is he since his big year last year both mentally and physically to play since you have had experience playing him many times?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   No, he improve a lot.   He still play the same tennis, but he's running a lot faster.   That's why he's strong like this.

Q.   It seemed like after that particular call and then after dropping the tiebreak, you seemed a little bit, I guess, flustered to start the second set.   How hard is it to rebound from something like that and just happening so quickly?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   You know, anyway when you play a player like this, it's always tough when you lost one set.   So, you know, you try to stay in the match, but the guy in front of you is more relaxed and play better.
So you have to play even better than, you know, in the first set.   Sometime it's not possible.   That's it. 

Q.   What would you take away from this week's experience here to help you fine‑tune your form for next week, the Masters in Shanghai?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   You know, for the moment I'm happy because I played good tennis here.   It was a great tournament for me. 
I hope I will continue to improve like this, and, you know, I will try another time to beat these guys, you know, next week.

Q.   Is there an added sense of, I guess, pressure or frustration after the fact when you have played the same guy a few times this year and just haven't been able to get over the hump?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yeah, of course there is some frustration, you know.   I mean, you work a lot.   You give of yourself, and you never get a reward. 
That's why sometimes it's tough.   But, you know, I like sports and I know the only thing you have to do is keep fighting until, you know, I die.   So that's it.   (Smiling.)







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT