CHINA OPEN
October 6, 2012
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. TSONGA/F. Lopez
  6‑1, 4‑1 [Ret.]

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in Chinese, please. 

Q.   First, congratulations for you to win the semifinal in China Open.   Probably you're supposed to meet Djokovic in the final.   So you have lost to him three times, including the French Open where actually you have a big turnaround by him although you have three break points.   What kind of a preparation plan do you have to fight against Djokovic in final?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   During this week, you know, my level goes better and better.   I play maybe one of my best tennis here.   So, you know, I didn't play like this since couple of months and maybe couple of years now, play really good, and that's why, you know, I think I can win the final tomorrow.
Novak beat me, you know, many times.   He's maybe the player who broke my dream, you know, every time (smiling.)   You know, this time I will try to do better. 
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English. 

Q.   On your way to the final you have had one walkover match and today where your opponent retired.   Do you feel like you have had suitable competition to prepare you for the final?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yeah, of course, because even if today Feliciano was not in good shape, and even if he has a problem, I played well. 
I played really well.   I felt really good on the court.   I didn't know before he was a bit injured or something like this.
You know, I'm just happy today with my game.   I'm sure I will play good tennis in final.

Q.   Did you get the sense at all as the first set went on that he might be hurting in some way?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   What?   Can you repeat? 

Q.   Did you get the sense that he might be injured during the first set when he wasn't able to get anything on his returns?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Not really at the beginning, not really at the beginning.   But then, you know, game after game as I saw he didn't play maybe his best tennis, so I said that there is maybe something wrong.   But, you know, sometimes it's like me.   You know, sometimes it's something wrong with the body, but sometimes it's with the head and sometimes it's with something else, you know.   So you never know what is it.   So today it was his wrist.

Q.   Last year in the second round you played with a Chinese opponent, the same guy who actually defeated Richard Gasquet this year.   Do you maybe watch the match a little bit?   Do you feel surprised?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yeah, I watched the match.   No, I was not surprised.   I practiced with him also many times.   He's a really good player.   I mean, he's complete, and I'm sure he will improve a lot next couple of months.
You know, Richard played in Bangkok and played well.   So of course it was not a surprise to see him beat him.   But anyway, you know, he's a good player. 

Q.   Good afternoon, Jo.   If I remember correctly, you got your first ATP win in Beijing in 2004.   So after eight years you are in the final here in the same place.   Do you think Beijing is a lucky place or a special place for you?   My second question is:   What's your expectation for tomorrow's final?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   I will answer the first question first.   My expectation is of course to win it.   Like I said, I feel really well here in China and especially at the China Open. 
You know, I had some good memories here, because for me it was something new to play on the ATP Tour.   Anyway, you know, this moment will stay in my memories forever.   It was also the first time I played against a top 10 and the first time I won against a top 10. 
So I remember this moment like if it was, you know, yesterday.   Yes, of course if I win tomorrow it's going to be something really special here for me. 

Q.   After Murray winning the US Open and fulfilling his own dream, do you think that people's attention will be moving to you, Berdych, and even Juan Martin Del Potro?   They want you guys to challenge the Big 4?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yeah.   They are still the Big 4.   I mean, Andy took some time to win a Grand Slam, but he was already a very good player.   He won many tournament 1000.   And anyway, he was a good player, really good player even without this Grand Slam.
But, yeah, of course, you know, now people will wait for somebody like Berdych, Del Potro, I mean, you know, to win it.   I hope we will do it. 

Q.   The tournament upgraded the players' lounge and the players' restaurant this year.   How do you find them?   What's the part that you enjoy most?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   What the part I enjoy the most? 

Q.   Video games?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   No, I don't play the video games.   Yeah, maybe the player lounge.   I mean, it's cool.   It's relaxed.
Yeah, that's it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT