CHINA OPEN
September 29, 2012
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Questions in Chinese, please. 

Q.   Do you have much pressure to get a Grand Slam for French people?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   No, I don't have more pressure.   You know, I start tennis, you know, to achieve some goal like this, like win a Grand Slam, but for the moment, you know, I'm a bit far. 
Anyway, I will, you know, I will try my best.   You know, when you give your best, then you don't have to regret, you know, something. 
So, you know, I will just play my best and that's it. 
Q.   After you arrive in Beijing, how is your performance in terms of the practice here in the stadium?   What's your goal?   What's your largest opponent in this China Open?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   I just practice this morning.   No, I practiced also yesterday afternoon and this morning. 
I feel good.   I'm really happy to be here.   I had some problem, you know, to prepare the US Open, and I didn't play well.   So, you know, I'm really happy to play here, to be healthy, and I hope I will play good tennis.   And I feel really good.
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please. 

Q.   You just won the Metz tournament.   Can you tell me how it felt to defend home field?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yeah, I feel good.   For me it was the first time, you know, I defend the title.   I mean, it's a new step for me, you know, to defend something like this.
So I hope I will continue to improve and win other tournaments.   But anyway, it's good for me to defend this title in France.   I hope I will defend some more.   (Smiling.)

Q.   Do you think that you're going to carry some momentum from that tournament here to Beijing? 
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   For sure.   I mean, I'm a bit more confident than before Metz, and, yeah, I'm sure I will play well here because I had good week, you know, last week.

Q.   Does Andy Murray's win at the US Open give you confidence that you can also win a Grand Slam, that it's not all about Federer, Djokovic, and Nadal?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   I mean, I believe in me but not since Andy win his Grand Slam, you know.   My goal is to win one time, you know, for the moment a Major.   I work on it, you know, since I'm kid. 
So, you know, I will continue and I hope I will achieve this goal.   For the moment I'm a bit far, but like I said, you know, I practice for it and I hope I will do it. 

Q.   The draw just came out, and you're playing Denis Istomin in the first round.   Can you tell me a little bit about your history with him?   You have beaten him three times now.   Are you expecting any big problems in that match?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   He's a very good player who improve a lot these last few months and few years.   So I played against him three times.   I think I won two times quite easy.   The last time was, you know, a good fight.
I expect for a tough match, a very tough match.   I mean, it's not an easy first round.   He's powerful.   He can serve really well and move well on his baseline, so I have to be very serious, you know, for this first round. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT