U.S. OPEN
August 30, 2012
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. KLIZAN/J. Tsonga
  6‑4, 1‑6, 6‑1, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   In the second set you really seemed to take control.   What happened? 
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yeah, in the second set I played well.   But anyway, at the beginning of the second set also it was dangerous for me, and finally I came back.   I don't know, today I was not in a good shape.   I didn't play, you know, good tennis.
It seemed like I couldn't, you know, hit the ball enough hard, you know, to put my opponents out of position.   I don't really know why it was like this today, but sometimes it's happen with me.   I don't know, I guess.

Q.   Just a bad day?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yeah.

Q.   No physical ailments, nothing?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   No. 

Q.   How disappointing is it to leave this early?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   I'm disappointed, because anyway, it's a major and I didn't lost this round, you know, since couple of years now. 
Yeah, so I'm disappointed, but anyway, you know, it's tennis.   Sometimes you win; sometimes you lost.
Of course, it's always sad when you lost, but, you know, I will wait for another good moment.   I will forget it.

Q.   At times it looked like you were having some arm problems.   You had no problems with your arm or your wrist?   No problems at all?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   No.   No not at all, no.

Q.   Can you assess and talk about your year at the Grand Slams and whether or not you're satisfied overall?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yeah, I'm not very satisfied.   I mean, it's something normal.   You know, I lost second round.   I'm used to play round of 16 or quarterfinal.   Sometimes semis. 
I mean, it's like this.   It's tennis, you know.   Today I didn't play my best tennis and my opponent was better than me, you know, whole match I think, and that's it.

Q.   You've also played a lot of tennis, including the 25‑23 match against Raonic in the Olympics.   How fatigued are you?   How much did this year take out of you?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yeah, you know, it's tennis.   I will tell you that.   (Smiling.)
We have to play every week; I'm not a machine.   Sometimes I'm tired; sometimes not.   Sometimes in good shape; sometimes not.
That's it. 

Q.   Do you feel like you really do have to play every week?   I mean, it's sort of your choice not to play certain weeks now.   Like you didn't have to play last week, right?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   If I want to have ‑‑you always ask me about my ranking and if you're 4 or 5, but to be at this rank I have to be competitive with the other guy who play all week. 
And the new rules of the ATP where there is like six tournaments, 250, who count, it's very bad for me.   Because all the player who all play this tournament pass me if I don't play them.   So I have to play.

Q.   In a slam, 127 players go home and lose and one wins.   Dealing with defeat is important.   How do you deal with your losses?   Do some stay longer than others.   How do you deal with it?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   I always try to keep my head up and practice a lot.   When I'm angry with me, I just practice a lot, yeah. 

Q.   Can you blame it on your coach?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   What? 

Q.   Can you blame it on your coach?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yeah, sometimes I do it.   (Laughter.)
Q.You came in here as the No. 5 men's seed.   Obviously Djokovic, Federer, Murray, big three, is there a big gap at this point between those three and everybody else, in your opinion?   Or it just seems that way to the laymen, a big talent gap between the top three and everybody else. 
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   (Through translation.)   Yeah, I think for the moment there is a big difference.   The difference is they win tournaments and not the others.   (Smiling.)
What is difficult here also is with that, you ‑‑I forget the word.   (Through translation.)   You never, you know ‑‑it's tough to get reward when you play with this guy, you know. 
So I work, you know, a lot hard every week.   I give a lot of myself every day.   I never get rewards.   That's why sometimes it's tough.

Q.   Federer talks sometimes about how important it is to take vacations off the court just to get himself mentally ready for the big tournaments.   Do you feel you do enough of that?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Oh, I feel I don't have enough.   But like I said before, I have to play because I'm not Federer, not Djokovic, and if I want keep my ranking and not play these guys in round of 16, you know, I have to play these tournament. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT