ROGERS CUP MEN
August 8, 2012
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. CHARDY/J. Tsonga
  6‑4, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   When you reflect on a match like this, is there a sense of disappointment or do you just shrug it off knowing you're not coming in physically as 100%?   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   You know, anyway I'm disappointed because I lost it.   But, you know, this is the rule.   I have to play every week.   You know, for me it's a mandatory tournament; I have to be here.  
Anyway, I have to play even if I am tired, and it's like this.   So, you know, I will not complain.   I will just say, Okay, next week I have another tournament, I will have some rest, and that's it.  
   
 Q.   You said the rules are that you have to play.   Could you just talk a little bit more about which aspect of the rules made you decide to come and not take a penalty?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   We have some mandatory tournaments and some tournaments where we have to play, so that's it.   
   
 Q.   Obviously fatigue was a factor for you today.   Talk about what went wrong for you in your game exactly.   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   I think it's not about my game.   You know, my game is my game.   But I was just, you know, not enough‑‑ how you say that?   I didn't have enough energy to move well.   That's it.   
   
 Q.   The lack of energy, are you feeling a little bit of a letdown after all the excitement and action in London?   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   No, it's not about the excitement.   I mean, I just played 287 game last week and I took the plane.   There is a jet lag, and that's it.   I have to play just today after.   
I mean, it's not enough to recover, and that's it.   
   
 Q.   Where is the medal?   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   In my bag.   (Smiling.)   
   
 Q.   Are you looking at it every day?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Every day.   (Smiling.)  
   
 Q.   Do you think in four years' time when it's Rio, do you think the ATP needs to think about their scheduling, maybe a week in between the Olympics and a Masters Series event?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   No, it's difficult.   Any way it's difficult, but I don't know.   Maybe we can change some things, but, you know, I'm not a specialist.   You know, my work is to work on my tennis for the moment and not on the schedule of the ATP.   
If there is somebody to ask this question, it's not me.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about your Olympics experience, what it was like, and did you spend some time in the Village?   What did you do during your down time, not that you had that much of it?   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Nothing.   Just the three first day I stay at the Olympics Village.   It was really cool because I stayed in the same building as the other French athletes.   It was cool.   It was a good atmosphere.   
Then we moved to Wimbledon because Wimbledon was far from the Village.   So we moved to Wimbledon and we stayed there all week.   I played from 9:00 in the morning to 8:00 every day, so I just didn't see anything else.   
   
 Q.   Eighteen months or so ago there was a move afoot to get players involved in changing the scheduling.   At that point, Nadal dropped off the player's council and a bunch of other things happened.   You probably don't feel comfortable talking about it, but do you have any idea where that movement went?   It's obvious that something needs to be changed.   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   No, I mean, I would say nothing is perfect.   You know, we have to work on it, I think.   We all work on it, the players, the people who work for us.   We work on it, but anyway, it's difficult to change, you know.  
We tried to do some change, but we have to improve it.   I'm sure people who's involved in that will do some things.   
   
 Q.   For the first time here in Toronto the Hawk‑Eye technology has been used on more than one court.   In Indian Wells it's used on all the courts.   What are your thoughts as a player?   How do you like the fact that the Hawk‑Eye technology, the evolution is happening and you're seeing it in more and more places now?   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   I think it's good, and sometimes I think it's bad.   Depends, because what is good in life is to have a relationship, and when there is an umpire it's to have a relationship.   With the Hawk‑Eye you don't have relationship with the umpire, so we don't need umpire anymore.   (Smiling.)   Today I challenge four times or five times and I was right four times; my opponent did it six time and he was wrong six times.   
So, you know, I mean, it's good, but, you know, I think for the spectators, you know, it's less entertainment.   Because in the past, player like McEnroe and Marat Safin or other player, you know, they had the‑‑ how you say that?   My English is not enough good to explain everything.   
   
 Q.   Temper?   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yeah, yeah.   And now you cannot be angry.   Just to have say, Okay, the ball is on the line.   That's it.   
Yeah, so it's less entertainment I think.   
   
 Q.   You talked about those 287 games last week.   Now, our big local star, Milos Raonic, was responsible for quite a few of those games.   Can you talk about the physical toll of a match like that when you go 25‑23 in the third?   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yeah, I can talk about it.   We are a tough sport for it because we have to play every single day and you don't know how many time you will spend on the court.   So it's difficult to prepare because you don't know if you will prepare your endurance or if you will be explosive.   So it's difficult to prepare for that.   
But anyway, you know, it's difficult.   When you play a match like this then it's tough to continue, because then you will play maybe a player who's good, too, and it's going to be the same.   The round after is going to be the same, so it's difficult.  
   
 Q.   Who counted the number of games you played?   Did you?   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   No, it's not me.   That's why I say 280, because I didn't count it.   (Laughing.)   So I don't know.   Maybe it's 50 only.   (Smiling.)  
   
 Q.   Your opponent today just happened to be a fellow countryman.   What did you say to him after the match at the net?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   You can be stress.   That's cool.   That's it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT