WIMBLEDON
July 3, 2012
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. TSONGA/M. Fish
  4‑6, 7‑6, 6‑4, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   I want to look forward to your quarterfinal against Philipp Kohlschreiber.   What sort of match are you expecting from him?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   The best match of his life, you know.   I think he never reach the semis, so of course he will play hard.   I expect to have a very, very tough match. 

Q.   He said there's no pressure on him.   He can go out there and play because he's never made it this far.   How dangerous does that make him? 
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Maybe you will say I'm favorite because I play against him now many times.   So I'm favorite. 
But, anyway, him, like me, we have nothing to lost.   I mean, you know, we expect to play a good tournament, go in semis. 
For me it's going to be only the second time for me I reached it, so I have nothing to lose, you know. 
I just have to play my game.   You know, for me it was difficult because last year I play well, so I already reached the quarters so I save many points.   Now, you know, I will play more relax. 

Q.   When you went off last night, come back the next day, how difficult is it?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   You know, anyway it's never easy because you never know how it's going to happen.   But, you know, I'm pretty relaxed.   I had many time this scenario.   Last time I had it it was in Roland Garros.   So I know you have to be relaxed, you know, and take it easy and just continue what you do. 
I mean, yesterday I didn't play badly; I play well.   But he was just better than me.   He returned like 80% of my serve, you know.   It was really difficult to play yesterday because he was really aggressive.   He didn't miss one shot. 
You know, sometimes in tennis‑‑ I mean, not sometimes but all time‑‑ when you play against an opponent, if the opponent play well you look like you play bad, but you don't play bad, I mean, just because your opponent is better than you at this moment. 
When you play Rafa on clay you feel like you never play on clay before.   So, you know, it's like this, yeah. 

Q.   What is your approach to pressure?   What do you like about it and what don't you like about it?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   I mean, I don't have approach to pressure, you know.   You know, if my life I try to stay positive, to have the smile every time, to enjoy every moment I spend on this earth.   I know there is a lot of people who suffer a lot, and I'm not suffering in any way. 
I'm healthy.   I hit well every day.   I mean, I play tennis in beautiful place like this.   My family is okay.   You know, I have everything, you know, to have the smile every time.   Even when I lost one set, yeah. 

Q.   What are your thoughts on Mardy Fish's story and his comeback?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yeah, I mean, that's what I talk about.   I mean, he had many problems.   It's not about tennis now, it's about life.   You know, when you have some problem like this, of course you try to enjoy a bit more the life. 
So I'm sure he will enjoy. 

Q.   Your back seemed to be causing you a bit of discomfort.   How serious is that injury looking forward?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   You know, sometimes I have some problem like everybody.   You are a bit blocked and you need to get unblocked, and that's it.   I don't have a special program. 
But, you know, sometimes it happened to me my back is blocked and I have to unblock it, and that's it. 

Q.   It's not a serious thing for the next match?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   No, not at all. 

Q.   Can you tell us a bit how things in tennis have changed since the departure of your last coach, the different way you train and behave in matches?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   I mean, when you are in the critical point, you know, you don't think about your coach.   You just think about the balls and what you will do exactly.   If you think too much, you know, it's going to be hard. 
So, you know, since I don't have coach, I just play.   I just enjoy, you know, tennis.   You know, just like I said before, I try to enjoy every moment.   I try to improve my game. 
When I practice, you know, of course there is nobody to tell me what to do, but I have an idea of tennis, you know.   When I watch me on some video and everything, I can say, you know, here I'm not good, here I'm not good, so I have to improve it.   I will improve it.   I work like this. 

Q.   Is there anything better now without having a coach?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   I don't know.   Anyway, I improve my tennis.   I improve a bit my backhand.   You know, I serve maybe a bit better.   I'm more consistent.   I'm more consistent than before. 
But I don't know if it's about my coach or not.   But anyway I'm more consistent. 

Q.   You spoke about the joy of traveling the world in this great game.   What are the one or two things that you really enjoy most about going around the world, hitting a tennis ball, and competing in the family of tennis?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   You know, what I like, it's the ‑ how you say ‑ the goal.   You have one goal and you have to reach it.   This is why I'm exciting about, just because I have to reach a goal.   It can be tennis but other things. 
But for the moment, you know, for me it's tennis.   That's why for me tennis is exciting. 

Q.   When you have that great leap after a win, what goes through your mind at that moment?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   It's something special after a big win or a victory in tournament.   You feel like you don't touch the floor.   You know, there is some people who takes bad things for that.   And me, I just try to win some match. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT