WIMBLEDON
June 26, 2012
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. TSONGA/L. Hewitt
  6‑3, 6‑4, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   How would you summarize that performance?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Today I did well.   I played well.   Very good tennis.   Aggressive.   Very solid.   
So it was good.   
   
 Q.   Following the French Open, you had said that you played so well against Djokovic, and that wasn't even your best surface, so he felt good coming out onto grass.   How is your injury and how did you feel coming onto the grass?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   You know, I was a bit scared before this match because I didn't know how my finger will feel during the match.   
But it was okay, you know.   It didn't hurt me too much.   So I played a good tennis.   
Of course, I have a lot of confident.   Two weeks ago I play at the French Open good tennis, and for sure here I will play also a good tennis, because my game fit maybe better than on clay on grass.   
Yeah, we'll see.   But I'm sure I will play well.   
   
 Q.   Does the injury affect the grip?   Have you had to modify your grip?   Any shot that particularly hurts to play?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Not especially.   It hurt me especially when I dive (smiling).   So I did only one dive today and it hurt me a lot, so I will stop the diving.   
But, no, I feel okay on every shot.   I put a strap on during the match and it's okay.   
   
 Q.   How about playing somebody like Hewitt who is a former champion here.   He's in the latter years of his career now, but he can still intimidate, can't he?   Didn't look as if he let that show today.   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yeah, it's never easy to play against a guy like this because, I mean, when you go on court you know this guy played unbelievable matches here and is maybe able to play the same tennis, and this is difficult.   
But, you know, for me it's better to play somebody like this because I have to stay focused, I have to be focused at the beginning of the match, you know.   It makes me play a good tennis directly, and not to lose one set or two sets.   
So it was great for me I think to play against Lleyton.   
   
 Q.   You had the greatest victory of your career here last year coming up against Roger.   Lleyton was also talking about what any player has to do to break through these top three guys.   How difficult is it to be in the position you're in, knowing these three players are ahead of you playing at an all‑time level?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   You know what?   It's difficult.   I improve my game every year.   Even if I improve my game, you know, they're still far, you know, from me for the moment.   So this is what is difficult.   
It's because with them, you know, they improve all the time, all the time, and all the time.   Because they are three and they play together and they want more and more and more and more, so it's difficult for us to follow them.   
But I try, and I hope one time they will stop to improve and I will continue (smiling).   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT