MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 20, 2012
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 G. SIMON/J. Tsonga
  7‑5, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French for Jo.   
   
 Q.   What happened?   You seemed annoyed during the match.   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   I lost because I didn't play well.   This evening the conditions were not favorable to me.   It was cold.   It was humid.   I was not able to use my weapons.   
Even if I was hitting hard, nothing happened.   The ball still bounced up high.   So it was not favorable and I didn't find the key to the match.   
   
 Q.   Maybe you tried too hard and that made you make mistakes.   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Well, at a certain stage in a rally, one player has to make a mistake.   My game is to be aggressive.   Also during part of the match, the court was half in the sun, half in the shade.   We couldn't see anything.   So neither of us played well then.   
   
 Q.   What do you think of the matches between two French players?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   It means nothing to me.   Whether it is Gilles or someone else on the other side of the net, it's the same.   These matches hold nothing special for me.   It's just another player across the net.   I know other people think these matches are special, but for me, again, it's having to find a solution to someone else's game.   
   
 Q.   Why were the conditions difficult to deal with?   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Because he's a crocodile.   The ball always comes back.   He never misses, then you end up missing.   Whatever the surface, I always have a certain number of errors because I have an aggressive game.   It's part of my game.   
Today it was difficult for me to go to the net because I was not able to out‑run him and I couldn't go up to the net just like that.   
   
 Q.   Did you try to change something in your game?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Well, at a certain stage I tried to mix up the rhythm, then I tried to hit harder, then I decided I would have him run from left to right and right to left.   
I believe I lost the first set because I missed three or four forehands.   I was trying to do different things, even if you couldn't see that from the outside.   Sometimes what you feel on the court is totally different than what people perceive from the outside because we know there are things we can do and others we can't do.   Like today, I'm sure nobody saw that I was not able to out‑run him.   
   
 Q.   At a certain moment it seemed he was not playing as well, but at the same time you had a letdown.   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Well, as I said, I was not able to out‑run him.   
   
 Q.   After the match he said it was a strange match.   Did you have the same feeling?   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yeah.   Maybe we can say that.   
   
 Q.   Does this give you an opportunity to know where you are playing on clay?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yes.   I believe I had a good week overall.   Maybe today I could have done a bit better.   There are still two or three things I have to work on.   
   
 Q.   Can we know which?   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Well, I have to improve physically in order to add extra strength to my game, like hitting harder, playing heavier balls and, generally speaking, being better.   
   
 Q.   Gilles never played Nadal on clay.   What do you believe he can do for his first match against him?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Are you trying to set me up (smiling)?   
There's no obvious solution, I guess.   But we never know.   It's not always the same winner after every match.   I'm sure Gilles is going to try to use his weapons.   In fact, I have no answer.   
   
 Q.   Do you think he should go for it or wait?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   I don't believe he should go for it, but he can't wait either.   He will get no free points.   That will be his problem.   He will have to run a lot.   
I believe it's going to be complicated.   
   
 Q.   We've been talking about Madrid and the blue clay.   What do you think about it?   Rafa and Djokovic are certainly not very happy about it.   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Well, I want to see.   If it's faster, it's better for me.   I've never played on it, so let's see what it is.   If it's bad, I guess everyone will complain and they'll change it.   
I think it's worthwhile trying.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT