SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 28, 2012
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. NADAL/J. Tsonga
  6‑2, 5‑7, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Obviously nobody's happy when you lose, right?   But do you think you played a good match today?   How did you think you played, your game?  
JO WILFRIED‑TSONGA:   I didn't play a good match.   Didn't play a good match.   Didn't start well.  
I mean, it tooks many time to get used to the surface.   Was not the same as outside.   I played all the time outside.   So it took like two sets for me to get used to the surface.  
So after that, I played a bit better, just a bit better.   It was enough to come back.   That's it.  
   
 Q.   On that third set you were close to get again the break.   How confident were you that you could get that break in the last game?  
JO WILFRIED‑TSONGA:   Sorry?   
   
 Q.   About the last game.   You fought very hard, and you almost broke Nadal to go 5‑All in the third.   
JO WILFRIED‑TSONGA:   Yeah.   Yeah, I didn't have ‑‑ yeah, but I didn't.   I mean, I didn't did it.   So that's it.   
Now I'm here with this game, and, you know, I'm a bit disappointed, because, I mean, it's a match I can win.   I lost it, and, I mean, it's very frustrating.  
   
 Q.   What do you think why you did more than 50 unforced errors?   Because you play a very good game.   You was very, very, very hard with performance.   What do you think?  
JO WILFRIED‑TSONGA:   I mean, I play in the court.   I try to do the game.   You know, I think I'm a complete player.   
You know, I can play on the baseline, defense sometimes, I can go to the net.   So this is my game, you know.   I just try to take the court, you know.   It's only put the ball in the court and wait for a miss.   
It happen many times, you know, after many balls.  
   
 Q.   At that moment when you start playing with the ball, it was like a big time kind of important moment in the match, and you start like playing with your feet with the ball.   It helps you doing, something like that?   Or it doesn't matter?   Relax you?  
JO WILFRIED‑TSONGA:   I'm just waiting for the crowd.   I mean, you know, they speak, or, you know, they are‑‑ they make some noise.   So we have to wait.   
So I wait like this sometimes.   What do you want me to do at this moment?   (Smiling.)   I mean, stay like this?   Not move?   Or, you know, just ‑‑I just try to wait.   
   
 Q.   At the end of the match when you were talking to the chair umpire, you were like complaining or something?  
JO WILFRIED‑TSONGA:   Yeah, I was complaining because all the match, you know, I've got to ‑‑I have to challenge, and I was right, you know, many, many times.   
So never take‑‑ how you say?   (Through translation.)     He never take, you know, initiative when it's against Rafa, you know.   
And you know now it's all the time like this.   All the time.   
So, you know, I have to be, you know, really focused, you know, on the ball, because if the ball is out, it would never ‑‑if it's really close, he would never say out against Rafa.   Always to say against me.   If Rafa don't like him anymore, I mean, he would not be in the chair many times on final and semifinal.  
So it will not, you know ‑‑yeah.   That's it.  
So sometimes, I mean, it's not fair.   Because I have to take decision, you know, all the time.   And he never take decision.   He just say the score.   That's why, you know, sometimes I'm upset about it.   
   
 Q.   So you think you have double work on the court?  
JO WILFRIED‑TSONGA:   Yeah.   It's like a double work.   I have to watch the ball and the line and everything, and I have to play.   
I mean, then, you know, it come in your head and you focus on it and you don't have to.   Then, you know, I lose my concentration, you know, sometimes because of that, because, I mean ‑‑you know, there is sometimes, you know, many reasons, you know.   
He played like three times on the court.   I played ‑‑I didn't play on the court.   I played ‑‑I mean, it's like this.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT