DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS MEN
March 1, 2012
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. DEL POTRO/J. Tsonga
  7‑6, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Just your reaction to your performance tonight.   What do you think was the difference between and you Juan Martin?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   I mean, today he played well.   It's difficult to play against him because he serve well, he returns well, and I have to put the ball on the line on my serve to win the point, otherwise the ball come back.  
It's difficult.   I mean, he just played better than me.   Today I tried a lot of things.   Tried to play a bit more far from my baseline.   I tried to hit a bit early.   I tried to play some slice.  
No chance for me today.   It's like this, and I hope next time I will maybe play a bit better and him... (smiling.)   
   
 Q.   A bit worse?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   You were saying that part of the problem is he's huge.   In your words, he's huge; he's big; his reach is phenomenal.   Is part of the problem you didn't get many free points on the serve particularly?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   I mean, for me it's difficult because I have to play on the line to win the point every time, so there is a moment where I miss.   
I mean, yeah, when I serve, you know, I have to put the ball on the line.   If I don't put the ball on the line, the guy will give me the ball back.   So it's why it's difficult.   That's why for me it's difficult against him.   
He's very consistent.   He never give my one point, and that's it.   
   
 Q.   On this court it's quite fast.   Did you find that tonight, that the court surface is quick?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Against someone like him is it hard...  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   I think for me against a guy like this it's better to have a slower surface, you know.   Because when you play on fast surface like this, you know, you cannot have angle.   I cannot put spin in the ball, you know, and finds some angle.  
That's why for me it's difficult to make the point against him.   Because he's huge, and his reach, like you said, is phenomenal.   When you don't have angle, you have no chance to make the point, you know.   No chance.   So that's it.   
   
 Q.   Looking ahead ‑ Indian Wells and Miami, American hardcourt season ‑ how much are you looking forward to that and how would you assess your chances there?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   You know, last year I did not play well on this part of the season, but, you know, I have good hope for Indian Wells and Miami.   
I feel good.   I feel healthy.   I'm physically, you know, in good shape.   So I think I will play well.  
   
 Q.   Aside from tonight's result, is it good for tennis to see Juan Martin back?   He's obviously had the wrist injury and come back from very far down.   Is it good for the sport?   Maybe not for you tonight.   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yeah, of course.   Of course.   He's one of the best player in the world, and his place is in the top 10, top 5, maybe more.   
You know, you don't know how he can play, you know.   He beat already every player, every top player.   So, I mean, he's able to have a good, very good ranking.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT