DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS MEN
February 29, 2012
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. TSONGA/L. Rosol
  6‑3, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Talk to us about the match.   You were cruising in the beginning, but then there was a small bump in the road.   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   You know, I played well in the first set.   I think he was not in the match, so I broke him two times in a row.   Was 5‑Love up, and then after that he begin to play better.   
He broke me back one time, but I finished the set 6‑3.   In the second set, you know, I broke him really early in the set, so it's really good.   
After that was it more easy to play and to finish this match.  
   
 Q.   Do you enjoy playing at night here, or would you prefer to play during the day?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   I really don't know.   I really don't know.   Today it was not easy for the serve because of the night.   When you throw up the ball, you know, when it's dark it's really difficult to see where is the ball.   
So it was difficult.   But the ball go a bit slower, so there is a positive things in both.   
   
 Q.   Yeah.   You play Juan Martin.   You just played him and lost to him.   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yeah, I played against him last week.   I lost it.   It was not easy.   He played well.   I played a good match, but he played well.   
I know tomorrow it's going to be the same.   It's going to be difficult for sure.   So, you know, I will change a bit my way to play against him, and we will see what's happen.  
   
 Q.   You played him indoors and now it's outdoors.   Is it better for you to be outdoors against him as a player?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   No, I don't know if it's better or not.   All what I know is the court here is very fast, so it's going to be maybe a bit different than in indoors where it was, you know, a bit slower.   
   
 Q.   In general your record against him is not so great.   I think it's 1‑4.   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   1‑4.  
   
 Q.   What's very difficult about his game for you?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   You know, for me what is difficult, you know, I serve well.   It's one of my best quality.   Him, he return unbelievable, because he's very ‑‑ he's huge.   He's huge.   For me it's difficult to make aces because he's all the time on the ball.   With his two meters, you know, he can push his arm really far.   
It's difficult to make aces against him, so the ball always come back.   After that, he serve well and that's why it's difficult.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT