ROLEX PARIS MASTERS
November 1, 2017
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. BENNETEAU/J.W. Tsonga
2-6, 7-6, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French, please.
Q. How do you analyze the process of this match?  We thought we didn't see the same player at the beginning and at the end.
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Well, I played.  I put everything I had into it.  I didn't have a lot in reserve, and I knew that before I went on the court.  So I tried to gamble a little bit and I was good enough in the first set but then he started playing well.
It's a pity because it was very close and maybe tomorrow I would have felt a bit better than today.  But this is how it is.  It's tennis.
I knew that if I was going to play well in the previous tournaments I would be tired here, but I really tried to make it all the same, and I was not far.  I was close also last week.
But I did everything I could.  No regrets.
Q. In the final in Vienna you felt it already?
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Right.  The final in Vienna was not extraordinary.  But I was able to play well, although I was coming back from an injury, and I didn't have a lot of reserves or matches under my belt.
And, of course, now I'm disappointed but I know I did my best and I can now focus on the future.
Q. Well, talking about the future, how are you going to manage your time until the final?  You need to stay fit, but you need to practice also.
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Well, I'm going to rest now.  I need to recuperate.  I need to take advantage of these days off.
And then, again, I'm really going to work on my fitness to feel better and to be in my best shape for what's coming up.
Q. Did you feel tired at some point during the match?
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: I felt tired even before I went onto the court.  In those cases, I know what to expect.  In the first set, I was trying to avoid long rallies.  So with 250 shots, I was just trying to be efficient.
And, of course, losing that second set was tough because I was not only tired physically, I was also tired mentally and I didn't finish that match very well.  That was the price I had to pay.
If I wanted a slight chance to be in the final Masters, I had to play Antwerp.  I had to play here.  So I didn't succeed but I did win some points that might be very valuable in the future.
And I believe it's good for Australia, for example.  So I believe this end of the season is really positive.
Q. Of course, there's a collective event coming up, but if you look back to this year, what is your feeling about your performance?
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Well, I won some titles.  I was able to live my passion.  A lot of emotions for me this year.  When you win tournaments, it's a lot of emotions and there were tough moments with emotions too.  This is part of the game, part of life.
I don't want to talk about it again, but I feel really good with myself.  It was a good year for me and I hope it's going to end in the best ways possible.
Q. I'm not talking about here, but what you felt on the court in Vienna and Antwerp, is it good for the Davis Cup final?
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Well, seeing those tournaments, it makes me confident because when you have a problem with your knee you can't believe that you will be in perfect shape after winning just the first round.
So I believe it was profitable for me and it's going to help me for the future.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT