QATAR EXXONMOBILE OPEN
January 7, 2012
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. TSONGA/G. MONFILS
  7‑5, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Well done.   How important is it to have a good week and win a title before a Grand Slam?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   You know, it's really good for me because I played a lot of matches.   I played well.   I will leave this tournament, you know, with a lot of confidence, and it's good for me for the next tournament, which will be Melbourne for me.

Q.   Was it difficult because you were playing a friend, and also the conditions were unusual?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   I think everything.   You know, it was a final against a friend.   The condition was unusual.   It was the first tournament of the year, and, you know, so everything was different. 
But I react, you know, really well.   I play good tennis today.   I'm just really happy to win, and that's it.

Q.   You spoke on court about being aggressive enough to play against Federer, Nadal, and Djokovic.   How much are they in your thoughts, or do you tend to block them out and just simply try to improve your tennis?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   You know, anyway, they are big champions.   You know, they won already a lot more than me.   They have the experience of everything, of big tournament, of big final.   I need it, too. 
Of course, I need to be a good player, to be aggressive, to have something different than them, you know, to be competitive.

Q.   Maybe you could talk a little bit about the match.   What did you like that you did today?   And also, second, how did you feel when you were down 3‑1?   What were you thinking, and how did you manage to come back so well?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   You know, anyway, at the beginning of the match it was a bit difficult because he broke me very early.   It was tough.   But in my head, you know, everything was right. 
I said, Okay, I'm one break down, but I will continue to play my game.   I will make him run a lot.
So I hit a lot of shots, you know, to make him run.   I think it was the good solution because then, after that, he was maybe a bit tired of that.   After that, I was better than him.   I was all the time in the court making him run.   Yeah, that's why maybe I won today.

Q.   Are there any lessons that you have learned from this match?   Anything that you're going to do differently in the Australian Open?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   You know, anyway, I learn, you know, even when you are one break down, you know, you don't need to panic.   You need to stay yourself and stay, you know, really relaxed and play your game. 
That's it, you know.   If you play better, you will win.   If you don't play better, you will lose.   That's it. 

Q.   I was just wondering, do you have any particular minimum target for the Australian Open?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   You know, my target is to go as far as possible, of course.   If I can win it, I will.
But anyway, you know, for me, there is no special target.   Just play my best tennis, and then after that if I can, you know, see me again in the mirror, it's okay (smiling).

Q.   Kind of the same question, but can you win it?   Do you feel after tonight and the way you played this week, can you win a Grand Slam, the Australian Open?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   I don't know.   I don't know, because I didn't play the best player.   I didn't play, you know, in a row Rafa, Novak, and Roger, or Andy Murray. 
So I don't know yet, but anyway, I think of it, and I really want it, like I think most of other players.   So I do everything for that, and this is why it's exciting, because I don't know if I will do it one day or not.   But anyway, I work for that, and my ambition is to win one like this. 

Q.   Does it make a difference that you made the final in the Australian Open?   Do you feel that it's one of the Grand Slams that you're closer to winning than the others, or does it make a difference? 
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   No, you know, I feel like I'm a very dangerous player on speed surface, on hard surface or grass.   So I'm sure I can.   You know, I can reach the final already, so maybe I can win. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT