QATAR EXXONMOBILE OPEN
January 5, 2012
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. TSONGA/A. Ramos
  6‑2, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You served very well indeed.   You seemed very calm out there.   Did you enjoy playing in slightly better conditions?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yeah.   I enjoyed playing in better conditions.   Of course, it was easier for me to develop my game.  
Today I played better than the other day, yeah.  
   
 Q.   You celebrated at the end as if you'd won the tournament.   Is that because you...   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   You will see when I will win the tournament (smiling).  
   
 Q.   Because you had a chance to play Roger Federer again?   Was that partly the reason or not?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   No, there is no reason.   I think I was just happy with my game today.   I played well.  
I was very aggressive at the beginning, and it was my plan.   So I did well today, that's it, and I was happy.  
   
 Q.   Could you talk about playing Roger if it is Roger that you play?   Does he give you an extra lift of adrenaline when you go on court against him?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yes, of course.   It's all the time, you know, a pleasure and an honor to play against this guy.   This time it will be another day than Sunday so maybe another result (smiling).  
   
 Q.   Why do you do so well against him?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Why what?   
   
 Q.   Why do you do so well against Roger Federer?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Why did I do?   
   
 Q.   Why do you do so well?   You seem to match up well against him.   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yeah, you know, it's because I have nothing to lose.   I play him every time, you know, my best tennis.   Yeah, maybe because of that.   
   
 Q.   Today it seemed like you really got out quickly.   You said yesterday you were a diesel engine that starts a bit slow.   Why so quick today?   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Because I just‑‑ you know, it was my plan today.   You know, I tried to change my diesel for regular fuel (smiling).  
Yeah, that's why.   
   
 Q.   As you said, you talked on the court about your serving being one of your best weapons.   How did you feel about your serving today?   It seemed like it was ‑‑it wasn't aces, but you were hitting all the spots.   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yeah, it was good.   It was good, because I had a good percentage, and, you know, with the wind I think it's a good weapon, because when the wind is across the court, you know, I can slice the ball.   This is my best serve.   
When I play a lefty guy, you know, it's easier for me to put him, you know, out of the court.   Then the court is open for me and it's easy.  
   
 Q.   Regarding Roger, it seemed like last year you had a lot ‑‑you have had success generally, but last year you had some big wins over him.   When you beat Roger, does that change your thinking and make you more confident that when you face him every time you can win?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yeah.   I think when you beat him, you know you can do it and that's it.   So of course when you are going on the court the next time, you are a bit more confident.   
But it's all the time, you know, difficult anyway to play against this guy, because when he play his best level, you know, it's better than every player.   
   
 Q.   You play tennis virtually every day of your life.   I wanted to ask how hard it is to keep the dedication and the enthusiasm for your sport.   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   You know, it's anyway in my career.   It was not all the time the same, enthusiast, but for the moment, very enthusiastic.   I like what I do.   I like tennis.   I think it's the best things that can happen in my life, to play tennis.  
   
 Q.   I love your little dance at the end of your matches.   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Okay.   Thank you.   
   
 Q.   So you have had a glamorous tennis career so far.   Which would you consider "the" most important match of your career to date?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   The most important, you say?   
Maybe the first of my ‑‑the first match of my career when I was seven.   (Laughter.)     Because I said after that, I like it.   So I continued to play.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT