QATAR EXXONMOBILE OPEN
January 2, 2012
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Maybe talk about just your preparations and how you're feeling about the season at this point.   That's the first question. 
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   So I had a very short preparation because of the long season I did last year.   I played a lot, so I took two weeks off, and I just start my preparation one week before Abu Dhabi and that's it. 
So for the moment, I didn't have time, you know, to practice a lot, but anyway, I feel good, you know, and I played well last year, so I'm still confident to improve my game this year. 

Q.   Now, you were in Abu Dhabi, right? 
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yeah.

Q.   So you had a chance to see Djokovic.   You know, for most of us we saw last year he was so dominating with winning so many Grand Slams.   I mean, are we going to see another year of dominance from Djokovic, or do you think you and some others will definitely knock him off the perch?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   You know, I don't know.   I cannot predict this.   But anyway, he's going to be there this year, too.   Of course, he's going to play for the first place of the tour. 
So that's it.   I don't know what I can say on this.   You know, he's today the best player in the world, and he will try to defend that.

Q.   You had a great year last year.   I read that you felt that that was partly because you became stronger mentally.   If that's so, do you feel it's created a platform for you to develop still further mentally and in your game?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yes, of course I continue to work on it because it's not perfect.   Yeah, I need to improve that, you know, to maybe have a chance to win against ‑‑to win a Grand Slam or to win a big title. 
You know, for the moment I don't expect the first place, but I expect to win big title and then the ranking will follow.
But, yeah, I have to ‑‑I have to improve this, you know, to be ready.

Q.   The famous match against Federer at Wimbledon, it seemed to a lot of people you were beating him when he was not playing badly at all.   Did that make you feel that you were actually at the level of the top four players when you produce your best?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   You know, I'm sure when I play my best tennis, you know, I'm really competitive, and I can beat, you know, these kind of players.   Now I need to be more consistent and to beat them consecutively, and that's it. 

Q.   Do you set clear targets for the whole season, or do you just set about trying to improve?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Um, I don't know.   I don't know.   I think the targets is all the time the same:   It's to improve, to improve his game, to improve his mental, to improve the way you live on the tour.
Yeah, this is a target for me. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT