ROLEX PARIS MASTERS
October 30, 2017
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. Rafa can take the year-end world No. 1 this year.  I wonder what sort of achievement you think that would be if he did that?
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: I think it's a big achievement.  I know what it means to be at my level.  So I can imagine to be even better.
It's a lot of sacrifice.  It's a lot of work.  It's also a lot of pleasure for sure.
But, yeah, you give a lot of yourself and so, yeah, I know what it means and to do that is big.
Q. And just one more on Rafa and Roger if I may, sorry.  Are you surprised by the year they've both had?  It's been an amazing year, right?
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: No.  You know, I'm not surprised about the year they did; I'm surprised about the career they did.
We all have in mind that Roger won 17 major and Rafa won 10 times Roland Garros almost in a row, which is just unbelievable.
And so, yeah, what can we say about it except magnifique.
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.
Q. You just played two weeks in a row with a victory in the final.  How do you feel physically?
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Physically, I'm healthy.  I have no problems.  Of course, I accumulated a bit of tiredness but I feel good.  And I'm happy to be here.  I want to play.  And very often the desire to play is stronger than all the rest, and I hope this will help me for this week.
Q. When you say the desire to play overcomes the rest, does it mean you're really tired because playing three weeks in a row at this intensity might be risky?  It might be too much and you might get injured?
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: No.  You can't really say it's too much.  Maybe it can happen that one extra day is too much, but what I'm trying to do is to do the best I can.
As some players are able to last a very long time and at a certain point to do that you have to make decisions.  For the time being I still feel good, but of course, if I was to feel something, I wouldn't have played here, for example.
Q. The Masters is not far away anymore.  It was far before, but now it might be possible.  Are you motivated by that?  Do you believe it is possible?
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: The Masters could be an incentive if I was extremely close, but it is not the case today.
If other players play better than I do, I can't do anything about it, and I will not be going.  So what is important for me here is to play a good tournament, to play day after day, play each match at 100%.
Q. Did you look at the draw or not?
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: A little bit.
Q. There might maybe be a match between Tsonga and Goffin.  Would you like that?
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: It would mean I would have won my first round, and if I win that first round, I will be happy already.  And after that, if David wins his match and I win my match and if we play each other, it will be the third time in the season.  And maybe not the last one.
Q. Would you like to have a rehearsal here in Paris three weeks before the Davis Cup final?  That's what I meant by this question.
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Well, that was also my answer.  It would mean I won the first round.
Q. Is it important for you to fight for your position as No. 1 among the French players?  Is that an extra motivation?  Other players are playing well.
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Being No. 1 in France is a good title to have but it doesn't depend only on me.  I just focus on what I have to do and I try to play a good tournament.
But at the end we'll see where I'm standing.  If I am No. 1 I'll be happy and if not, I'll be very happy for the one who will achieve this position.
Q. Do you have the impression you are coming very strong in the end of the year?  Because in the beginning of the season you had many problems, many difficulties.  So it might end in a great way.
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: No.  I am not feeling I'm coming from far behind.  Also because I'm not that high.
I had very good moments during this season.  I won some titles.  Personally, I experienced something fantastic, but I also had some disappointments on the court.
So it was a tennis season.  If you want me to take stock right now, the only thing I can say is that during the season I won some titles.  I lived my passion 100% and I enjoyed it a lot.  You can always expect something better, better results, but what is most important is that I was able to enjoy playing tennis.  After all those years, I still love to practice, to compete, and to live all those moments on the tour.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT