BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 27, 2011
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. FEDERER/J. Tsonga
  6‑3, 6‑7, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You didn't have to break both ankles in the end, but you put up a hell of a fight.   How did you see the match out there?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   You know, today I fight all I can.   You know, I'm just happy tonight because I had a good week.   Of course, to win is better.   But anyway, you know, I give everything.   Tonight I can see myself in the mirror and say, Yeah, you fight enough.   
   
 Q.   Do you regret anything about the match today?   There are some specific moments when you think you should have done something different?   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Not really because he was better than me in the first set.   Also in the second set.   But I took the first set point, you know, in the tiebreak.   
You know, I think he played better than me in the first and second set, and also the third set.   So I was a bit lucky to play three sets today.   
   
 Q.   You played Roger twice this week.   What makes him such a tough competitor?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Well, it's tough just because he's the best player indoors for the moment, because he's maybe the best player ever, because he's really quick.   He's playing well.   That's it.   
   
 Q.   What did you think of the London mayor Boris Johnson disrupting your flow at one point?   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   What I think about?   
   
 Q.   Angry?   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Oh, no, no, no.   It happens all the time.   That's no problem.   
   
 Q.   When you played Roger on Sunday you said afterwards that everybody was cheering for him.   That certainly wasn't the case today.   You must have been thrilled with how much support you got out there.   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   No, today I was surprised because they support me a lot.   They support me a lot.   It was really fair from the English crowd.   
But anyway, you know, it's sport.   It's really good when it's like this.   
   
 Q.   How tired do you feel at the end of this season?   A lot of the other players have expressed how exhausted and injured they are.   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yeah, you know, I'm a bit tired especially because I know in 10 days I have to come back to practice, to prepare the other season.   That's why I'm tired.   It's not because of this season, but because I have only 10 days to recover and then I have to go back to work to improve my game.   That's why it's difficult.   
   
 Q.   What's been the most satisfying thing for you this year?   What do you think your biggest achievement is?   What do you think you need to work on to be even better next year?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   You know, my biggest achievement was maybe because I was more consistent, consistent in my head, and that's why I was good this year.   
But I lost a bit physically.   So I need to improve again.   I have to work hard, you know, my body to be quicker on the court, to move better.   Maybe if I move better next year, I will have some better results.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT