BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 22, 2011
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. TSONGA/M. Fish
  7‑6, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You get such a lot of support here from the British crowd.   How much does that do for your confidence?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   You know, it's really good to win for the first time here.   Of course, is good for my confident, too, because I will play a match to qualify for semis on the next round maybe. 
It's really, really good.   I was waiting for that, you know. 

Q.   Did you feel much more comfortable because you played before on the court? 
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   I don't know.   But, anyway, against Roger, I didn't start well.   But then after that, I played well.   So today I start better, even if he break me back in the first. 
But I played well today.   Yeah, I have felt really good on the court. 

Q.   You had a five‑setter at the US Open.   After the first‑set tiebreak, we thought maybe we were going to be here for a few hours.   Do you enjoy playing against Mardy?   Is there a reason why you have such good games?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yeah, you know, it's good to play against him because he's really aggressive and he play a nice game, you know.   He come to the net.   He play like differently than the other player.   And it's nice to watch but not really to play against (smiling). 
But, anyway, when we play together, it's all the time, you know, a good show for the crowd. 

Q.   You haven't had a coach since April.   Can you say what that has been like?   What has been the difference working without a coach and working with one?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   You know, without coach, you have more responsibility.   You have to be really professional.   And, yeah, this is maybe the difference. 
But, anyway, you know, for me it was I listen to play and be without coach because I think I have lot of things to learn, you know.   I think for me it was important, you know, to have this session without coach. 

Q.   In the second set against Federer you seemed almost unbeatable.   The second set today you were also more or less on another planet.   How do you feel your level is when you're playing that well?   Can you beat anybody when you're playing that well?   Can you be beaten when you're playing like that? 
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Uhm, I don't know.   I don't really know, you know, my best level because tennis is a bit difficult because sometimes on two points you can play really well and the next point, you know, you put the ball in the base of the net.   It's difficult. 
But, yeah, you know, when I'm very aggressive and I put lot of pressure on my opponent, you know, I'm able to play with everybody. 

Q.   You play Rafa next.   Are you more confident playing him on this surface where his topspin is not so strong?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yes, of course.   Of course, it's better for me than clay courts.   Last time, you know, on clay court, it was really difficult.   But, you know, after tomorrow I think I will have some chance. 
I know is difficult for my opponent, you know, to break me on this surface.   Rafa play far from his baseline, so I can be in the court.   This is what I like.   So I hope it will be an advantage for me to play indoors. 

Q.   Were you distracted by the argument that Mardy had in the first set?   He started to play at a higher level, and you were not quite at the same level. 
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   You know, you always think, I don't have to be disturbed.   At the moment when you say that, you're already done, you're already disturbed. 
Of course, you know, all the time when you're on the chair and your opponent is screaming on the umpire, you know, you try to be focused, but it's difficult.   Sometimes, you know, it's me.   So, you know, it's like this sometimes (smiling).   We have to discuss with the umpire. 
But I don't know if it's good for me or good for him, you know, so it's okay. 

Q.   Nobody says usually they thinks to be favorite when he has to play a match.   But you have to play Nadal on this surface, and especially at this particular time of the season, would you say when you go to play against Nadal here day after tomorrow, you will start thinking, I should win this match, or you're not so optimistic?   Confidence helps. 
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   It's not about what we will say today or what I will say now.   It's how I will play, you know, at the moment.   I don't care to be favorite or not.   I can say I'm favorite or I can say I'm not favorite. 
But, anyway, when I will go on the court, of course I'm professional and I will try my best.   When I go on the court, I just want to win and that's it. 

Q.   I'm not asking for you to tell us.   But in yourself, the confidence helps or not in these situations?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Of course.   Of course.   In tennis, you know, the confidence helps a lot.   And, yeah, it's important. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT