BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 20, 2011
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. FEDERER/J. Tsonga
  6‑2, 2‑6, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Jo, how did you feel in your first appearance at this event?   Did you feel any nerves beforehand?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Nerves before, before the match? 

Q.   Yes. 
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   No, no, I was okay.   I was okay.   But like the last time, you know, I start really bad, and then is difficult. 

Q.   Jo, after the first set that you lost very quickly, what was going through your head?   What made you come back the way you did?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   You know, I just tried to put the ball in the court.   In the first set, I didn't put one ball in the court, and that's it. 
Then I start, you know, playing better.   I think he was a bit surprised because I played so bad in the first set, then I played correctly, you know.   So, yeah. 

Q.   Is there something about Roger's game in particular that you find it difficult to start off against him?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   No.   You know, it's always difficult because he's really quick and sometimes you think you will get the point and Roger is still here.   That's why it's tough to play against him. 

Q.   Considering the way you played in the second half of the match, does it give you a lot of confidence going through the rest of the tournament? 
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yes, of course, you know.   But I know I can play like this all the match.   I'm disappointed today because I didn't play like this all the match.   I hope for the rest of the tournament I will. 
Anyway, I will watch the match and see what I can change and what I can do better. 

Q.   Does this loss feel less tough because the tournament goes on or does it feel the same as a regular loss?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   It feel worst, you know, because it's all the time better to start with a victory.   But, anyway, you know, I'm still in the tournament and I will try to play my best tennis on the next match. 

Q.   Can you compare the two matches in Paris Bercy and here, talking about the court, the play of Roger, and your play. 
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   You know, for me it was a bit the same match, except maybe last time in Paris Bercy, you know, on the breakpoint, I missed for two centimeter.   But was exactly the same story. 

Q.   That third set was very tight.   Was it that the pressure got to you in that last game? 
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   No.   But I just miss one volley.   Then on the match point, he return, you know, with the frame.   You know, is tennis.   Sometimes it can go really quick. 

Q.   Can you say something about what the court is like, how it's playing?   Is it fast?   Slow? 
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   No, no, anyway it's indoor court so it's fast.   But it's okay.   I think we can play.   It's a really good court.   I enjoy to play on. 

Q.   You mentioned that return with the frame on match point.   In general, how is he returning through the season, in the last matches you played against him?   How is he returning your serve? 
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   What I can say?   Well, because he won all the time, so that's enough (laughter). 

Q.   This is your first match at the O2.   What do you think of it?   What do you think of the court? 
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Was good.   But everybody was for Roger, so...   That's okay (smiling). 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT