CHINA OPEN
October 7, 2011
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. TSONGA/J. Ferrero
  6-3, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Congratulations. Looked like pretty smooth sailing out there. Give us your thoughts on the match and where we go into the weekend. 
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: You know, today I just played well. I'm surprised to have played like this. That was just amazing. Everything was working. I'm just very happy to go through this round, because it's never easy to play against this guy.
 So I'm really happy. It's good for tomorrow because I didn't play, you know, a long time. Tomorrow will be exciting for sure. It's going to be another match. (Smiling.) We have a lot to win tomorrow, you know. Both of us have to win tomorrow to be safe for the Masters. 
 So of course it will be exciting, and both of us will play our best tennis to win this match I think, and I think it's going to be a good match. 

 Q. (Through translation.) Andy Murray and Rafa Nadal went to Tokyo to play the tournament; you came to China to play the China Open. What do you think most attracted you here? 
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Can you repeat, please? 

 Q. Andy Murray and Rafa Nadal went to Tokyo to play the tournament there, and you came to play China Open. What aspect do you think was it that most attracted you to play in Beijing? 
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: (Smiling.) Oh, you know, Novak was supposed to play here. It's quite the same. I think this year the China Open is not really lucky because they all pull out.
 But, no, I think it's the same tournament. Both of these tournament are 500 points, and I think it's exactly the same. No, for me it's just about luck. 
 (Smiling.) Liar. 

 Q. You beat Roger Federer twice in the past few months, one in Wimbledon and the other is in Rogers Cup. Tonight, you beat Ferrero. How is your feeling in these three matches? What's different? 
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: What is the difference between Federer and Ferrero? 

 Q. Between these three matches. 
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: (Smiling.) I just know there is a point in common because I won these three match, but I don't know about the difference. 
 Anyway, it's a different player. Roger was No. 1 in the world for six or seven years and he won many, many Grand Slam.
 Juan Carlos won only -- no, I cannot say only won one or two, I don't remember. But anyway, both of us are champion, you know, and they have the good attitude on the court and they made a lot for tennis.
 But I don't know, I cannot -- I don't know what to say about difference. 

 Q. Can I ask another question? Compared with before, it was Roger, Rafa, Novak, and Andy, so what's your strength and what's your weakness? Please tell us what was your strengths and weakness. 
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Oh, I think they're maybe physically and mentally stronger than the others. It's not about, you know, play forehand or play backhand. We all can play a forehand and a backhand.
 But on important points, they are here because physically they are really strong, really quick, and they seem that they're never scared, you know. That's why I think they are as good. 

 Q. (Through translation.) What's your impression on the new stadium, the Diamond?
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Oh, it's just amazing. It's just amazing. I think I want to see the stadium full, you know, because it's really impressive. Yeah, that's it. I think it's really, the site is huge for a 500 tournament. No, it's really good. 

 Q. What's the major difference between China Open and the other big tournaments, like the Grand Slam? 
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Only the title. (Smiling.)

 Q. Just staying on this note, Ljubicic said here has all the big stadiums, has the feel of a big tournament, yet it's moderately small, as the competitions go. What can do you think can be done then maybe by the ATP and the organizers here to elevate the game to attract and make sure that it's a kind of must-visit by top stars like yourself? 
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: How promoted this? 

 Q. How to make the Beijing Open a bigger draw for the players going forward given that it has the big stadium and the big-tournament feel, yet it's still new, perhaps. 
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: I don't know. It's tough. It's tough, because -- it's difficult because there is -- you know, there is Grand Slam, there is 1000 tournament, 500.
 We play a lot, and of course it's difficult to put, you know, more tournament. So we can't put, you know, like 15 1000 tournament. For us it's difficult. So I think for us it's like this for the moment.
 And the time, you know, can help some tournament like this, and that's it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT