U.S. OPEN
September 5, 2011
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. TSONGA/M. Fish
  6-4, 6-7, 3-6, 6-4, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. How did you manage to pull that victory out?  
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: I don't know. Today was just really difficult because of Mardy, of course, because of the wind, because of all the condition. And I just did a great job today.   
 I was mentally strong. And, yeah, I'm just happy to win because a few years ago it was tough for me, you know, to play in this condition. And today I was really, really strong in my head, so I'm happy.   
  
  Q. A couple of times it seemed like you were complaining to Mardy about noise from his box. Were people in his box bothering you?  
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: No, it was not about that people in his box were around, no. Just one guy. And he was really kind with me because I just tell the umpire, There is somebody who is screaming on me, you know, all the time. And he said, It's in my box? I said, I don't know. It's over there. He said, Okay, I will just say.   
 A few game after, it was my box. Mardy told me, There is somebody. I say, Okay, and I went to them and I just say to stay quiet.   
 I mean, with Mardy, it's all the time friendly. It's good.   
  
  Q. When you say you're strong in the head, how does that reveal itself on the court now? Is it how you play key points? Is it your relaxation on the court?  
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: My game, you know, is very good when I have nothing in my head, when I just play my game, when I don't think about other things like the wind, people in the box (smiling), all this stuff, the photographers. Sometimes it's tough for me, you know, the click.   
 Sometimes now, you know, I try to go over everything and just relax and play my game.   
  
  Q. Did the way you came back against Roger help you today?   
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah, of course. You know, I think every match in Grand Slam I played -- you know, I mean, I think playing three sets or two sets, it's completely different. I think it's another sport, because today if I have to play Mardy, I know in Indian Wells I lost, and today I won. I won because of these three sets. I think it changed the game a lot.   
  
  Q. Once you're down that two sets to one, you know that to win you have to go to five, just how strong is your confidence that you can win any five-set match?  
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: You know, I just feel good physically. And when you feel good physically, you know you feel good in your head, and then you know even if you are two sets down, or two sets to one down, you know you can win in five sets. When you know that, then it's easier to go through.   
  
  Q. Is it extra special winning a five-set match more than just any other match? Is it more special beating an American at the US Open than it is just beating anybody else at this stage of the game?  
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: For me, you know, it's the same. Any way for me to beat Mardy here, you know, of course it's special because this is the first time I will join the quarterfinal here. And, for me, it's like beat Federer somewhere or Nadal, you know, because he's at home and he wants to do great and play his best tennis here. He has the crowd with him.   
 So, of course, it's really difficult. But, I mean, it's not something -- I don't know. It's something good, you know. But for me it's not a problem if it's an American or another guy.  
  
  Q. What is the hardest shot to control in the wind when the conditions are like this?   
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: My returns. My returns and, of course, my forehand because I'm not really powerful. When I play with the game, I cannot be powerful because the ball go away. And when I'm against the wind, my power, you know, is canceled.   
  
  Q. Given your experience playing against Federer, what do you imagine will go through your mind and how will it affect you if you get to play him in the next round?  
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: You know, any way it's good to have some win against him because now Roger know I'm able to beat him.   
 But, you know, every day it's another day. Even if I won, you know, two times, I know that the third time will be difficult - maybe more than the others - because of that, because Roger know I can beat him and he will do everything, you know, to win this time.   
  
  Q. What's the key for you to have that sort of success?  
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: The key for me, it's just play like I did the other time. I mean, I have to be really aggressive, I have to be in the court before him, and that's it.   
  
  Q. You mentioned Mardy talking about somebody in your box. At that point he used some foul language on the court. Did you think that was directed at you or at the umpire?   
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: From my box?   
  
  Q. Mardy used some foul language on the court at that point. Did you think that was directed at you or was it directed at the umpire, Mardy's anger?  
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Oh, I don't know.  
  
  Q. You didn't hear it?  
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: No, I just hear he was a bit - how you say that - upset, a bit upset of somebody, you know, in my box. So, you know, I think we are just here to play tennis. I just said, Okay, I will go tell them to stop, and that's it. There is no problem.   
 Like I said before, you know, Mardy is really friendly. All the time, you know, a word, to joke. No, it's good.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT