ROGERS CUP MEN
August 11, 2011
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. TSONGA/R. Federer
  7-6, 4-6, 6-1 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
  
  Q. What lessons do you draw from the big victories over Federer that you would like to apply more often to other players in the top five?   
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: You know, just keep the way I play, just be aggressive all the time, take the control early in the point. That's it.   
  
  Q. Do you see any particular aspects of Federer's game that have changed over the past couple of years that have made it easier for you to take advantage of any weaknesses? Any decline in his game?  
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Not really. Not really.   
 THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   
  
  Q. Among the three victories you had against Federer, this one seems the most controlled one.   
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yes, I think so also. That is the match I played best. I really played good tonight. I was opportunistic. I didn't miss any opportunities I had. I was able to break before he did. I'm very happy the way I won this match.   
 I'm happy now to be in the quarterfinals. It was a tough draw to have Federer in the Round of 16. I'm going to rest and hope to play a good match tomorrow.   
  
  Q. You said that playing against Federer will bring you down to earth, but you brought him back to reality. He seems less impressive to you?  
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: No. But all the players keep improving. The competition is becoming tougher. Today I believe that no player can be spared. Look at Rafa who lost, and Murray. The only one remaining above everybody else is Djokovic.   
 But during the past weeks, the tournaments are much more open.   
  
  Q. Does that give you some ideas?  
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yes. I'm preparing myself. I improve every day. I'm not surprised with my level of game today because I've been working hard.   
  
  Q. What do you have to do mentally to play against him like you did? In the key moments, do you have to really believe in your chances? He said you were particularly confident lately.   
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Well, little by little we end up learning how to control those important moments. There's nothing special I worked on. And if those players are at that level, it is not a coincidence. They are able to remain focused and to never lose sight of their purpose.   
 In the second set when I was broken, I decided it was useless to run around and pick up all the balls. I just tried to play my aggressive game. I think this disturbed him a little.   
  
  Q. So you said you learn from the players. Did you learn from him?  
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: I learn from all of the better players against whom I was able to play. The day I will stop learning is the day when I will stop playing tennis.   
  
  Q. We talk a lot about your forehand and your serve, but your backhand is becoming an important shot for you. You hit some good ones today.   
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Well, during the past month or years I've been improving my backhand. And people talk about my forehand and my serve, but on my backhand I rarely make mistakes and I'm able to surprise the opponent. It is a good shot to complement my game so I can keep up with long rallies if I need to.   
  
  Q. Almagro doesn't like Tsonga.   
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: I hope so (smiling).   
  
  Q. Is it more comfortable for you knowing you have a psychological advantage?  
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: No, because any good streaks are bound to stop sometime. If I want to win tomorrow, I'll have to come with a very tough mind but be humble at the same time and try to play my best.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT