ROGERS CUP MEN
August 8, 2011
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. TSONGA/F. Fognini
  6-4, 7-6

 THE MODERATOR: Questions in English. 

 Q. Talk a little bit about the match today. How did the match go for you? 
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: It was not a really good level from me. I didn't play, you know, really well. But today I did the most important: was to win. So, yeah, that's it. 

 Q. Talk a little bit about your confidence, the level of your play right now. Obviously semifinals in Wimbledon, beating Federer to get there. Where do you think your play is right now? Have you looked ahead in the draw and seen maybe that you can play Federer?
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: You know, even if of course was a good tournament for me, it's now part of the past. I have to look forward. I just have to play now my game, continue in this way, and I will see how I will play. 
 But, anyway, I'm still confident. I hope I will play better and better during the tournament. 

 Q. You had some issues with your health in the match?
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah, I had a problem with my ear. It was difficult to have a good balance. So I tried to find solution, but we don't have solution. I just have to play with this. So it's a bit difficult. That's why sometimes I didn't have a good placement. I was moving on the court not so well. 
 So I will play with this. I hope tomorrow it will better. I will see. 

 Q. Ever had it before?
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: No. It's because of the air-conditioning. 
 THE MODERATOR: Questions in French. 

 Q. That was a typical match after a moment off with ups and downs. Can you tell us what happened with your ear. 
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: I caught a cold a few days ago because of air-conditioning and my ear gets plugged sometimes. In that case I can't hear from one side and I have the impression I'm losing my balance on the court, so it bothered me a little bit. 

 Q. So what do you think of the match?
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Well, as you said, there were ups and downs. I was just starting to play again after a while off. So playing in the evening is also a bit special because the conditions change. The balls are softer and they are not as fast, so it's a bit different. 
 Today I was not very precise with my shots and I didn't play that well. 

 Q. What did you do between the Davis Cup and this tournament here in Montréal?
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: After the Davis Cup, I stopped playing for a bit more than 10 days, and then I started practicing again until now. I had some holidays in Switzerland, and I spent a week in Las Vegas practicing. I didn't go there to gamble in the casino (smiling). 
 I was playing in Las Vegas with the adidas team. 

 Q. Do you think it was a good idea? Was it a good experience for you? Did you find their methods new?
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: It was something different. I noticed that there were approaching tennis in a different way. It was a very good experience for me. Like every time I meet new people, it's always interesting. 

 Q. Did you talk with Agassi?
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: A little bit. I hit some balls with him. 

 Q. Do you feel you want to go there again then?
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Why not? If the opportunity comes... 

 Q. So what about your next match against Tomic? What do you expect from him? He's a young player who is very hungry. 
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Well, I saw him play and I know he can be very dangerous, especially when he plays against better players. This doesn't mean I'm a good player. But he is more motivated when he plays against players who are better ranked than he is. 
 He's young. He wants to prove he's a good player so he will be very eager to win that match. 

 Q. About your ear, what can you do about it? 
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Well, if you have a solution, I'll be ready to take it. 

 Q. The physio came, and after that things went better for you. Was the key factor that your ear was better after that?
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: My ear didn't change after the physio's intervention. I knew that in every game I had a chance to win them. I was not far behind. So I felt no panic. I was very lucid and was able to play better and I was able to avoid losing that second set. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT