MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 11, 2011
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. TSONGA/J. Monaco
  4-6, 6-3, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   
  
  Q. What did you like in your game today?   
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: I showed a lot of willpower, I had a good attitude, and I was aggressive. I chose some tactics at the beginning. I realized it was not working well because he was able to return all my loops, so I was able to change my tactics and play more directly to him. It worked pretty well.   
 I approached the net and tried to mix up my game. I think there are many things I liked in my game today, and I played a very good match.   
  
  Q. You've shown a lot of consistency in your will and energy. Before you only had one hour and a half autonomy and now you seem to be able to play more than two and a half hours as you did today.   
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yes, I had no problems with that. In Miami and Indian Wells already I was feeling better. There I was able to assess my fitness. When I came back, I worked a lot. I had some good training sessions.   
 So I'm very happy. It's not bad. I hope it will keep going.   
  
  Q. So you had no problems with the transition to clay?   
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: No worries. Last season I played well on clay and I was not worried. I was just wondering whether sliding would be as easy as before with what I have now. But, in fact, it is easier because it is softer and I need to make less effort to change directions.   
  
  Q. And playing tomorrow again, is it okay?   
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Well, I'll give you an answer at the end of tomorrow's match. But I hope so.   
 In fact, I don't have too many doubts about this. In Indian Wells and Miami I practiced a lot, and again when I came back here.   
  
  Q. It's a new situation for you now without a coach. You can't look at him during the match.   
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Well, during a match it doesn't make much difference because the coach can't play for you. You only have a visual contact, but you're alone on the court.   
 Today I had several people to support me like Michel, Guillaume, JC from Babolat, and a friend of mine.   
  
  Q. But how is it without a coach when you are not playing a match?  
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: I organize differently. I must think about more things. But I have people to help me. I'm not the one having to run everywhere to book a court or do everything.   
  
  Q. Without a coach, after a match, you don't have to go through the debriefing process either.   
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Well, we used to have fights about that because I never liked those debriefing sessions very much.   
  
  Q. Are you going to stay without a coach for a long period?   
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: I don't know. It will depend on my results. I'm exaggerating, of course. But Federer, when he stopped having a coach, he still played well.   
 The important thing is having good results, never mind with whom I'm working or not working. If one day I feel lost on the court - which was not the case today - I might think about it again.   
  
  Q. Do you have offers?   
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Obviously. Some people approach me. I'm among the best players in the world, in France, and of course some coaches would like to coach me.   
  
  Q. Can you give us some names?   
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: I can't give you all the names.   
  
  Q. Can you then give us a number?   
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Well, I don't get to know everyone who approaches me. Morgan gets some of the requests. For the time being, I feel good as I am. I can just tell you that my mailbox is not full.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT