QATAR EXXONMOBILE OPEN
January 6, 2011
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. TSONGA/G. Garcia-Lopez
  7-6, 7-6

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. That was a very tight, close match. You produced some of your best tennis on some of the biggest points. Was that the main reason you won?
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah, I think it was the main reason. I served unbelievable on some good points and I did it with depth, so I'm happy to win today. 
 I didn't play my best level maybe on my baseline and during the point, but I served well, and this is the most important.

 Q. You're being very critical, but why did you not play your best tennis sometimes, do you think, or what might be the reason?
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Just because, you know, when you are injured, you lose the rhythm, and it's really difficult to get back and to find, you know, your shot and everything.
 I'm maybe one of the players who come back the most quickly in competition. So I think I can play, of course, better, but for the moment it's enough. I hope I will play, of course, better day after day.

 Q. When you got your biggest weapons in, you nearly always hurt him. You nearly always either won the point or got control of the point. Did you always feel that you had a big weapon ready if it was needed?
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: If I what? 

 Q. You have big weapons. You have a very heavy forehand, big serve. Did you always feel that you had an extra weapon if you needed it, if you were in trouble?
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah, of course. All the time when I'm on the court, I feel like, you know, I can make the good shot, you know, to put my opponent in trouble, but sometime it works and sometime it doesn't work.
 You know, I just try to find the good shot at the good moment for the moment. It's not every time the good moment for the moment, but I hope it's gonna be in the future. 

 Q. Some people think that you will be the winner; not Federer, not Nadal. Why, you think?
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Why? 

 Q. I'm asking you. 
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Maybe you have to ask them. Me, I just try to play my best tennis here. And for me, Nadal and Federer are better than me for the moment, and I just try to accept the same level as them, but it's difficult. 
 So I do everything. So if people think I can do that, it's good, because if they don't think, it's maybe a problem. But, yeah, is good.

 Q. What do you want to say for the French spectators today?
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: What I want to say? Just support me, and I will do my best anyway.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT