WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2010
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MURRAY/J. Tsonga
  6-7, 7-6, 6-2, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Good evening, everyone. Jo-Wilfried Tsonga for you. 

 Q. How would you say you came to lose that game today? How can you describe what happened today? 
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: How can I describe? Just I play a tennis match against Andy Murray on the Centre Court. I played a good match, but he was better than me today. And that's it (smiling.) 

 Q. You won the first set. 
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah. Close. 

 Q. Second one?
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: I lost it, but close also. And then he was better. Then he was better. 

 Q. Did you become demoralized when he leveled at one set all? 
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Not really. But, you know, it's all the time like this. Sometimes you are, you know, close to take two sets and continue, and then you lost and then you are, you know, a bit disappointed, and then the player in front of you is very confident because he took the second set, you know, really close and he play better and he's more relaxed, and you, you are more, you know, on your feeling, and that's it. And then he play better. 

 Q. That point in the tiebreak when you let the ball go off the return, is that the point in the match that you'd want back? 
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah, of course this one. 
 But there is this one. Maybe there is other. The return I did, you know, on the line. The line umpire say 'out' and then say, 'good.' Andy take the challenge and the ball was good. After this ball, if it was not announced, I have a ball, you know, in the court, you know, easy shot, and is different also. 
 So this is tennis, and sometimes you leave a ball go and you lose on this ball. 

 Q. You were tending to the thumb a little bit. Was it bothering you?
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah, a bit. But when we play, we have all the time things like this. That's life. 

 Q. What do you think you have to work on to improve your game to today?
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: You know, I'm happy because today I find a level I didn't play since a long time at the beginning of the match. You know, for me it's good because I didn't play this level since, yeah, a really long time. 
 Maybe if I play like this, you know, and I'm more consistent in this way, I will do some good things. 

 Q. Everyone in England will get excited about Murray maybe winning Wimbledon. How do you rate his chances?
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah, I hope is gonna be him. I told him, you know, at the net, Make me a pleasure; go all the way, you know. 
 Yeah, I hope he will win because it's a good player. It's never easy to play, you know, in front of his crowd. He's really strong, and I hope he will win. 

 Q. Did the crowd worry you today? 
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: No, no, no. They was really fair, like every time, yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT