MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 15, 2010
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J FERRERO/J. Tsonga
  6-1, 3-6, 7-5 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   
  
  Q. So what didn't work today? Your serve? The volley maybe?   
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: I also missed two or three returns at important moments. It was not breakpoints or game points, but they were important points. Like 15-30, for example. I also missed two or three attacks. I would say a bit of everything everywhere.   
 The match was quite balanced. I could have played closer to the lines, but I was obsessed by the idea that I should stay behind and put him back. I was waiting too much and not aggressive enough. If I had been, I would have won more games.   
  
  Q. You used your backhand pretty well, especially down the line. Remember that first match point? You didn't use that kind of backhand against Almagro.   
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: I tried to be aggressive. They are two different players. Almagro hits harder, so I can't do that kind of shot against him. But Ferrero plays more flat and he steps into the court, so it's a good idea to use that shot with him.   
  
  Q. You had pretty long matches. Do you still feel fresh?  
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: I have a lot of energy. I could have played many more sets. If I had been with more intensity, maybe I would have been tired, I don't know. But the way I feel now is that I could play more.   
  
  Q. Isn't that frustrating?   
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yes, because I'm out of the tournament and I am not even tired physically.   
  
  Q. What broke your strings? Did it have any influence on you during that first set?  
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: In fact, the strings broke because of a technical reason. It was not because they were worn out. It happened at a very bad moment because it gave him a breakpoint. After that, he played a good shot and I lost the game. So it disturbed me and it gave him a break. He was more relaxed after that.   
  
  Q. Does this match give you more ambition for the rest of the season? You played well.   
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yes, it pumps me up and boosts my confidence. Some people say I'm overconfident. But what I think is that I was right, and I had a potential here.   
 The important thing for an athlete is never to give up, never let it go.   
  
  Q. In the end you went to shake his hand with a smile. Is that what it means?   
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: I didn't think about anything. We were two human beings. We had a good game. We both fought well. So the least I can do is tell him he played well.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT