BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 16, 2010
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. TSONGA/A. Montanes
  4-6, 6-3, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Can you just talk about how you feel about your game right now after getting to the quarterfinals?
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: That's okay. I feel good. I win, and this is the important thing.
 Today it was tough. Albert played a good first set. I was not really good in this first set, but then I change a bit my game and my mind and I played better.

 Q. What about the conditions out here? It seems like we hear a lot of the players talking about the conditions are kind of tough, and then you look at some of the results, and, you know, seems like a lot of players are struggling out here. Are the conditions out here kind of different?
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah, the conditions of course is different than other tournaments. But I think it's like every week. You know, every week we have to change. We have to play on another surface. 
 It's like this, you know, so I think it's not special. It's just tennis, and that's it.

 Q. It just seems like a lot of people are having a lot more unforced errors and struggling hitting the ball. Is there something out there about maybe the courts or the air?
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah, maybe because the Rebound is higher and the ball go fly a bit, but that's it. 

 Q. You've started the year at the Australian Open the last couple years and done very well. Do you feel like this is a Major tournament to you that will make a big difference in your career here this week?
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: I think it's possible. Because if I win here, you know, I will feel better after that for sure. (laughter.)
 Yeah, of course. It's good for confident and it's good for my ranking, you know. It's more easy to win a big event if you are seeded. I'm not seeded for the moment in Grand Slam. I have to be in the top 8, and that's why it's important for me.

 Q. Can you comment about the heat? Is the heat okay for you?
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah, right. I like it. It's good.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT