THE CHAMPIONSHIPS WIMBLEDON
July 3, 2017
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. TSONGA/C. Norrie   
6-3, 6-2, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What are your thoughts on the state of your game right now?  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Right now, you know, it's only the first round.  But, yeah, it's never easy to enter in the tournament.  The first round, you looking for something, for a good level of tennis.   
Yeah, so today was the possibility for me to - how I say that - to do some work on my game and see how it goes, you know.  And that was okay.   
 Q.  As someone who has gone far here at times, how do you look at the big four's dominance since Lleyton Hewitt won in 2002?  Why do you think it's so hard for the other players to break through at this major?  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Why?  Just because they are not enough good for the moment, and the other guys are just too good (smiling).  That's it.   
There is not many things to do about it.  Just they are better, and they win because they are better.   
 Q.  What did you make of your opponent today, Cameron, strengths and weaknesses?  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: I mean, that was not easy today because I played a player who I think it was the first time for him at the first round here.  So, I mean, that was not easy for him.  And at the start, he played pretty good.  But after that, he had some difficulties, you know, to keep the ball in the court.  It was more easy for me.   
But, yeah, I know how it is, how it is difficult to come for the first time on these kind of tournament against a guy who is supposed to be a lot better than you.  Yeah, it's not easy.   
 Q.  The surface seemed to be showing a little bit more wear than usual.  Was it normal for you?  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: I don't know what is normal.  Tennis is never normal, you know.  Every day is different.  Except maybe in indoors.  After that, all the condition are different everywhere.  Every day is different.  Sometimes during the match, it's different.  It's dry, then it's raining, then it's wet.  It can change at every moment.   
That's our job.  You know, we have to get used to all this, and that's it.   
 Q.  How would you describe, from your perspective, changes in recent years in Roger Federer's game, how he's been able to be competing and even winning majors?  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: I think he never lost it.  He always been competitive.  The only thing, the guy in front of him, because they all continues to be better and better every day.  At the start I think it was more difficult for him when they start to play the same level as him.   
Now he get used to it, and he's playing well.  For sure, he went back with a very good shape this year.  Yeah, but he always been a good, very good, player.   
 Q.  What do you think of that at his age?  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: I mean, it's a great performance, I would say, because a couple of years ago, all the player was retired after 31, 32.  He's 35, 36.  He turn 36 maybe this year, I don't know, 35.  And he's still there, still competing for the best position.   
Yeah, that's a good performance.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT