SHANGHAI ATP MASTERS 1000
October 18, 2009
Julien Benneteau
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 BENNETEAU-TSONGA/Fyrstenberg-Matkowski 
  6-2, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Earlier this week I asked you about the doubles game which you played against Stepanek, and it was a fun game and you entertained the crowd. At that time you said that singles are very important for you, and sometimes you do doubles just for fun, and if you take it seriously, you go crazy. Still, you play to win and you managed to win the tournament. How important is it for you?  
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: How it's important to win in doubles for me?   
  
  Q. Yeah.   
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: For me, I think it's important. I think it's important for tennis, single player playing doubles. But, you know, I have more fun, you know, in doubles because it's not really -- how I say that? It's more entertainment, you know.   
 You play and you can do a lot of tricks and a lot of things. You don't have effect on your game, because in singles, if you are not really focused, it's difficult to be good.   
  
  Q. But did you have to bring more focus to actually win the whole tournament?  
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah, to win the whole tournament, no, you know, in final, I stay focused because I want to win, but before that, I play and I enjoy the game.  
  
  Q. Obviously you two focus more on singles, but you won a big tournament in doubles. People might think that doubles players ranked higher than you, maybe they just play more often, and the more often with each other not necessary better double players than you guys. Do you think so?  
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah, but, you know, I think that the ranking is not that true, because some single players don't play in doubles. It's not because they don't play that they are not good. And I think if some good player in singles play doubles, the ranking will be different a bit.   
  
  Q. Tsonga, last week you lost singles in Tokyo, and this time doubles. Two titles this year in Asia. What impression, these two weeks?  
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: For me, it's good. It's good to win every time. I play for that, and I enjoy to win.   
  
  Q. One more question to Julien. I was amazed by your net play, very quick hands. So can you please introduce your single-playing style a little bit? Maybe serve and volley more?   
 JULIEN BENNETEAU: No, I don't do some -- I do some serve and volley in singles but not too much, like we do in doubles, obviously.   
 But, no, I play -- the way I play in doubles I play the same way in singles with my -- my shots are the same, and I try to play the best every time. And this week it worked for us.   
  
  Q. Are you going to watch the singles final right now? Who's your pick and why?   
 JULIEN BENNETEAU: No, we are not watching the final, no.  
  
  Q. Why?   
 JULIEN BENNETEAU: Because we are not in it.  
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: We have a --  
 JULIEN BENNETEAU: We play a lot of tennis, so we don't watch a lot of tennis on TV. (laughter.)  
 It's going to be a great match, for sure. It's going to be very close, because Davydenko is in very good shape, and so --  
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: You know, if you watch all finals since you are young, you know, it will be something like -- there is 52 weeks in a year, so maybe there is 40 finals, so it will be more than 1,000 final in my career. (laughter.)  
 You know, we spend a lot of time, you know, to play tennis, so sometimes when we finish to play tennis, we would like to do other things, and -- yeah.   
  
  Q. Thank you. You explained a lot, because I ask players already do they watch tennis, and they really only watch games before their own game, and they don't watch it on TV. Thanks for explaining this finally.   
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah.  
  
  Q. My question is what did you say to each other after you winning the doubles title just now? And another question to Tsonga is do you like your new hair style? Do you think your new hair style bring luck to you?   
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: What?   
  
  Q. Your new hair style. Do you like your new hair style?  
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: You like it?   
  
  Q. Yeah, I like it.   
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: So it's good. Perfect. Yeah.   
  
  Q. And the first question: What did you two say to each other after winning the doubles title just now? Or you can say something to each other right now. Thank you.   
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: You like my hair? (laughter.)  
 JULIEN BENNETEAU: It was well done. Thank you. It was -- it's a good one, this one. This victory is a good one, and we are very happy. And we are still happy.  
  
  Q. You must be obviously very happy to win a Masters 1000 double title. Explain what's going through your head right now and your thoughts on the match.   
 JULIEN BENNETEAU: A good feeling to win a tournament so big like this. Masters 1000 is first one for me. It's very good feeling.  
 We played very good today. It was very, very good fun and happy ending on this beautiful week.  
  
  Q. For you, you've never lost a doubles final. What's your secret?  
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: My secret, it's -- I don't know what is it, but it's the same in singles. I lost only one, and I like to play the final match of a tournament, because this is the end of the tournament and if you win, you leave the tournament with a big smile and you are really happy, and I do everything in final to win.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT