SHANGHAI ATP MASTERS 1000
October 14, 2009
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. TSONGA/S. Zeng
  6-3, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. How did you feel about today's match?   
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: I feel good. I feel good. It was not so long, and it's good for me, for the next step, yeah.  
  
  Q. Looking at the race for London, there's a lot of people that are still in contention. There's three French players in contention, so it's very important to stay in that race.   
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah, it's very important for us. Yeah, you know, it's the end of the year, and everybody want go to the ATP final, and everybody give everything, you know. And, yeah, it's normal.  
  
  Q. (Through Chinese translation.) Before this match, when you were talking about this opponent, you mentioned that you never heard of him. What impression did he leave you after this match? And also, another question is what do you think about where the Chinese male players can bring certain positions in the tennis sports in the future?  
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: So, yeah, what is my impression? It's -- you know, it's a young player, I know, and he's quick, really fast on his legs. And he can play well, but he need maybe more experience at this level. And, yeah, just play, you know, and this is for my impression.   
 And I don't know about Chinese tennis, not a lot, because there is no -- not a lot of player in the top 100 or top 200, so I don't know them a lot, and I cannot say, you know, a lot of things about it.   
  
  Q. Yesterday you played in the doubles, and you did a lot of things to entertain fans like soccer moves and communicated with the fans. Is it a special game, I mean, compared to anything you've played before?  
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah, you know, for me single is more important than double these years, and of course sometimes it's difficult because I want to play doubles because I like it, and sometimes I play single, and then I have to play doubles just after my single.   
 And I just want to enjoy it, because if I'm not -- if it's not entertainment for me, you know, I go crazy, because, you know, I'm tired and so I prefer, you know, to cheer with the crowd and make a good show.  
  
  Q. What do you think about your next game? You're playing with Robin Soderling, and he had a great season this year.   
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: What I think about the next match?   
  
  Q. Yes.   
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah, it's going to be tough. We are both for the fight to go to the ATP final, and both of us want, you know, to go there.   
 So it's going to be -- it's going to be difficult. I know he's going to play well, and I have to do everything to win tomorrow.  
  
  Q. So you have make it to the Masters Cup last year, and this year you still have chance. How are you going to value your decision this year?  
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: How I value the --  
  
  Q. The season this year.   
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: The season?   
 The season was not so good, but I learned a lot, because this is the first year I play, you know, all along, all the other year, you know, without injuries and without stop.   
 So I learned a lot about my job, and I think I'm better than last year, but I have to, you know, concentrate everything, all the information, you know, I have and to be better.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT