MEDIBANK INTERNATIONAL
January 15, 2009
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Well, we're obviously here a little bit earlier than we would like to have been. Unfortunately, Jo has had to withdraw from the tournament due to a back injury.
 I'll open up the floor to questions.

 Q. You said yesterday that you thought the back was okay. What changed between yesterday and today?
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah, because I do it just after my match yesterday, and after when it's getting cold my back was very pained.
 So I decide this afternoon because the pain, it's too much, you know, and I cannot play.

 Q. Did you speak to a doctor or physio, or just your own feeling?
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: No, no. I saw my physio a lot yesterday. I saw the physio from the ATP. I saw the doctor, and they tell me it's difficult to play like that.

 Q. Is the Australian Open any risk at all, or is this a precaution for the Australian Open?
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: No, it's not precaution, because I hope it will not affect me for the Australian.
 But it's not precaution. I can't play 100%, so I cannot play.

 Q. So you still expect to play in the Australian Open?
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: I don't know. I will see. I will take some rest and I will see how I feel in maybe two days.

 Q. What's the nature of the injury? Just a muscular thing or something serious?
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: No, I had a problem with my discus a long time ago, and sometime it happens. I'm completely blocked, you know. I have to wait. I just have to wait and come back on the court when I feel better.

 Q. So how difficult is this in terms of your preparation, missing a match and then not being able to train for two days? Will you be able to walk, hit up? What do you think you'll be able to do for the next two days?
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Nothing for the next two days. I will stay maybe in my bed and I will -- and I hope I will be better after.

 Q. Is this one of the most serious injuries you've had?
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: No, because I think it's -- it happens sometimes, but it happens a lot of time for me before.
 Yeah, and I know it's like that. I have to wait just a little bit and everything is going to be okay when it will be finished. But I have to wait some days.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT