TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 13, 2008
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  J. TSONGA/N. Djokovic  
1-6, 7-5, 6-1  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. It's your first time to Shanghai. What is your impression of the city? We see almost all the crowd here supported you during the match. What do you want to say to them?  
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: I didn't visit the city for the moment because I was in my tournament, but I will do it tomorrow.   
 I just want to say thank you because they support me all the week. They was very nice with me, so I just want say thank you.   
  
  Q. You obviously probably lost the bigger one of the matches you played with Novak, but you've won the last three. What is it about his game that you seem to be able to handle so well?  
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: About his game? I think he was better than me in the two first set, but I take the second one. I think it was an holdup.   
 And then for him maybe it was difficult to stay very concentrate because he's qualified and he has to look for the next match.   
  
  Q. You finished this season with a win. Looking back at the whole season, how do you take the success you made in 2008?  
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: For me it's just very good to do years like this. With all my problem I played very well. I hope play better next years.   
 So, no, I'm very happy of this year.   
  
  Q. You were disappointed when you couldn't play the French. You had to have the knee surgery. You were on such a high. Were you concerned that maybe the year wouldn't go as well as it ended up going for you once you came back? Were you worried you wouldn't come back after the knee surgery as strong as you have?  
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah, for me it was a surprise to come back like this. Sometimes we take a long time to come back when we get surgery like this, and for me it was just one week.   
 It's very good for me and for the rest of my career because now I am top 10 and I have lot of ambition for the next year.   
  
  Q. According to the reports of the French newspaper, Nadal predicted the top eight for next year. Two of them will be you and Gasquet. How do you take that?   
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah, for me I don't know. I will see next year (smiling). I will play.   
 But I'm confident and I always want more. Today I'm maybe 7 or 6. I will prefer to be in the top 5, so I will see next year.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT