TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 9, 2008
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  N. DAVYDENKO/J. Tsonga  
6-7, 6-4, 7-6  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Can you talk us through the third set. You were making a great recovery and then it all went wrong in the tiebreak.   
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah, I just -- it was a tough match, and I think that Nikolay played very well and that's it. That's it (smiling).   
 When I came back I played very, very well. I give everything on every ball, and Nikolay today was just better than me. And, like we saw at the tiebreak, he was more -- he was better physically, and that's it.   
  
  Q. Do you think your loss has something to do with experience, because this is your first match, and he played four Masters Cups in Shanghai?  
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: No, I don't think it was. He was just better than me at the end of the match, like I said before, physically. But I don't think it's experience. You know, I played a lot of matches this year, very important matches. Today it was another one.   
 But for me it's not a difference if it's the first round of, I don't know, Bangkok or, I don't know, another tournament, Sydney. For me, the Masters is same one. You have to play against an opponent and you have to win, and that's it.   
  
  Q. Nikolay just said the key factor of this game is how you have to keep your concentration, keep focused. Do you think you sort of lost some concentration at the end of the game, the tiebreak?  
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah, of course. I lost a lot of energy, because today when I ask my towel, my towel didn't come. When I ask for a ball, the ball didn't come. That's it. So sometimes you are tired and you play a long point and you say you want your towel and the guy look, I don't know, somewhere around.   
 And you, you are here and you want your towel. You say one time, two times, three times, and then you ask the other guy. The other guy looks around, so you have to say one time, two times, three times, and the towel comes (smiling).   
 Sometimes in this match I lost energy with that, yeah. Sometimes I have to take my towel alone. So for me it's maybe 10 meters more. But if you count at the end of the match, it's like one kilometer.   
  
  Q. Jo, you really light up the arena today. Do you expect you have so many fans in Shanghai? Do you think the audience helped you?   
  JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yes, of course they help me, because sometimes play tennis is very hard and you need some -- you need the crowd for cheer with you.    
  Q. Are you surprised you have so many fans in China?   
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yes, a bit (smiling).   
  
  Q. I'd like to know your opinion about the Davis Cup final. Do you have a favorite? Do you dare to give a result?  
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: No, I don't care about it. I think it's going to be a good final, but I don't care because I don't play.   
 So I hope the best team's gonna win.   
  
  Q. Which will be the key factor, in your opinion?   
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: I don't know. I think if Rafa is good physically it's gonna be tough for Argentina, but we don't know about his health. That's it. We will see.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT