MEDIBANK INTERNATIONAL
January 12, 2008
Richard Gasquet
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  The turning point in the match was in the super tiebreaker because you were three match points down.  Did you actually feel that you could make a comeback at that point? 
 RICHARD GASQUET:  Yeah, we never know.  For sure we were a little bit disappointed because it was 9-6 for them.  It was really difficult for us, but you never know.  Jo had to serve two times and he has a great serve, and he serve great two first serve incredible. 
 I had to finish the volley, and after we played an incredible point at 9-8 for them.  He put an incredible backhand.  We fight a lot and we tried to come back. 
 After, at 9-All they had a lot of pressure on their shoulders and he didn't serve well, the lefty didn't serve well and Jo return well.  After I have to finish with my serve, so it was a perfect -- the five points were perfect for us.  For sure we are happy to win the title because it was against -- yeah. 

 Q.  The fact that you came back from those three match points against the No. 1 ranked in the world, does that make the victory more special for you guys? 
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA:  Yes, of course, of course.  It was just amazing.  At 9-6 I said to Richard, We can do it.  We will do it.  And he say, Yes, and then we come back. 
 It's just unbelievable to beat the No. 1 in the world, so we are very, very happy. 

 Q.  What is your background as double's partners?  How far back do you guys go? 
 RICHARD GASQUET:  We know each other a lot.  We played a lot in young tournaments, under 14, under 16.  At 18 we won a lot of tournaments.  We are friends.  I like Jo as a friend.  I like to play with him.  It's important to play with a guy you like.  Yeah, I know him a lot. 
 We played so much in juniors.  We knew we could play together -- well together because, yeah, we have great -- 
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA:  -- feeling. 

 Q.  What about as professionals?  Have you guys been in tournaments before? 
 RICHARD GASQUET:  No.  It's the first time.  I hope for sure we will play a lot together in the future.  I think we have a great future. 

 Q.  So you guys were both in the singles draw, too.  Why add to the workload?  What was the motivation coming into the tournament to also be in the doubles? 
 RICHARD GASQUET:  It's important for us to win doubles.  It's great for us to win the title.  We enjoyed a lot to play on the centre court against Bryans.  It's good for our single games.  We can -- 
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA:  -- practice a lot in doubles. 
 RICHARD GASQUET:  It's always fun to win a title with a friend.  It's important for the future. 

 Q.  Aside from getting more court time, how do you think doubles does help your singles game? 
 RICHARD GASQUET:  You have to serve, you have to go to the net, a lot of the volleys and return.  It's important for our game for sure. 

 Q.  Will you maintain this partnership throughout the Grand Slams and maybe the Davis Cup and even the Olympics? 
 RICHARD GASQUET:  We will try to play.  Why not?  In Davis Cup for sure, why not?  And after we will see.  In Grand Slam, we will see, but we will play a lot for sure. 
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA:  Yeah, it's just the first tournament so we'll see what's happen after. 

 Q.  You were the No. 1 seed for the singles match.  How much will this victory help you to put that behind you, the exit from the singles behind you? 
 RICHARD GASQUET:  It's tennis, you know.  I lost against the runner up.  He has to play the final tonight.  He played just unbelievable.  I tried my best and I fight a lot.  I lost just 6-4 in the third, so it was a good match.  But after I have to play doubles with Jo. 
 We wanted to win the tournament and we did, so it's great for us.  I think we can play great in Australian Open.  We will play Monday, so we have great chances to play good there. 
 Now we are happy to win because it was against Bryans on centre court.  We enjoyed a lot this match. 
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA:  Yeah, we enjoy it.  When I will stop my career I can say, Okay, I beat the Bryan Brothers at centre court of Sydney.  It's unbelievable.  That's why we play doubles, for play some matches like this. 

 Q.  And can I just ask you a question off the court?  You've been down at Bondi.  You've had a week in Sydney.  What do you think about Sydney? 
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA:  It's a nice city.  We enjoy to be here.  We went to Bondi yesterday and it was just -- 
 RICHARD GASQUET:  -- nice. 
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA:  Just nice. 

 Q.  So you finally got there? 
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA:  A lot of wave, the beach, and a lot of things. 

 Q.  What about the harbour, the size of the harbour?  Had a chance to see the opera house, the Harbour Bridge? 
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA:  No, no, not the opera.  We had dinner in front of the opera, so... 
 RICHARD GASQUET:  Next year we will try to go for sure. 
 JO-WILFRIED TSONGA:  Yeah, to answer for you. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT