MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 18, 2017
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. MANNARINO/J. Tsonga
6-7, 6-2, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please, in French.
Q. What was the most difficult part?  After a long period without playing, it's not easy.
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Today was a good match.  It was good tennis.  There were some parts that were not so good.  But as a whole, it was a good match.  I would like to congratulate my opponent.  He played a really good match.
He's part of the players who are really giving it all on the tour.  He's improving a lot.  I really want to congratulate him.  He played a very good match.  He was better than me today.
You can always do things a bit better.  But I think it was a good match, generally speaking.  Now I'm going to practice again.  I'll try to come back and be better next time.
Q. Were you surprised he beat you on clay?  Normally clay comes more naturally to you, supposedly.
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Well, he's a good player, whether on clay or grass or hard courts.  He's not a new player either, although in France they don't talk much about him.  He has been ranked among the top 25 or top 30.  He really deserved his victory today.  He was extremely good.
Q. What didn't you do well today?
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: What I should have done is win more points (smiling).  Win more points and be better with my serve.  I got broken often today.  I'm not used to being broken that much.  I could have been better with my serve.
Q. Adrian admires you a lot.  Do you believe he could have had difficulties in finishing off the match because of his admiration for you?
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: No.  In tennis you only know what happens at the end of the match.  If I had come back in that match, people would have said something happened to him.  But here, he played very well at the end of the match, or maybe I didn't play that well.
So, as I said, he played a solid match.  He can be congratulated for it.
Q. What was difficult for you today?  You are not at your top level right now.  Even if you don't say so, we all know it.
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: I don't know what to say.  This is your opinion.  I played my match.  Whatever I say, you will say I'm making excuses, so...
Honestly, I played my match.  He was good.  It is a first round.  We all know that a first round is always more difficult.  It's difficult to adapt to the new conditions.  But, honestly, I was really into that match.
Q. How is your family doing?  Are you able to sleep at night?
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Everything is fine.
Q. You might be waking up every two hours.
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: I'm well organized.  I have two bedrooms, of course.
Q. What is your schedule for the next weeks?
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: I'm going back to practice, then I'll play Madrid normally.  It can change.  I just left the court right now.  Of course, I thought I might be able to play more matches here.  So things can change.
But this is my schedule for the time being.  I'm going to Madrid, Rome, Lyon, French Open.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT