AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 22, 2017
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. TSONGA/D. Evans   
6-7, 6-2, 6-4, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What was your summary of the match?  How do you feel you played?  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah, that was a good match.  He start pretty good.  I was playing well, too.  Was a good fight at the start in the first set.  I had some opportunities, but I missed them.  Then he was better than me on the tiebreak.   
 Q.  How did you regroup after the first set to turn things around?  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Before the match I knew if the match start to be really physical, it's going to be on my side, I think.  I was thinking that.  That's what happen.  So the first set was difficult.  Then I played pretty strong and make him run a lot in the second set.   
Yeah, I just served really well, too.  Then it was an advantage for me.  I didn't have to defend too much breakpoints.  Yeah, that was an advantage for me.   
 Q.  Are you happy with the level you're playing at after the first week?  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah, I'm pretty happy.  I won, that's the most important, I think.  At this stage the most important is to win.  That's what I did.   
 Q.  59 winners today.  A very aggressive match.  Did you plan that coming in, playing aggressively against him?  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: I mean, two days ago I played against Jack, and I did like 73 winners or something like this.  So that's my game, you know.  Don't want to let the other player play on the court and make me run too much.  I want to do the game.  It's working well.   
 Q.  You have a fairly even record with Stan.  How are you feeling about that next match?  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah, it's going to be a tough match.  I know he's playing really good.  It's going to be important for me to be good in this match and play my best level.   
I think I will be ready, so...  Yeah, it's going to be a good challenge for me to play against Stan.   
 Q.  Do you feel a sense of opportunity, with Andy gone, that if you get past Stan you may be able to go all the way?  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah, of course, it's always an opportunity when a guy like this lost, of course.  I'm just focusing on my game.  My next game is going to be Stan.  I cannot look forward.  I have to be focused on this game.  And the next one's going to be even different.   
For sure it's better for me if I don't have to play Andy because I have a bad record against him (smiling).   
But, anyway, I will have opponent after tomorrow.  If I win, another opponent, and if I win, another one, so...  The most important thing for me is to be focused on the next opponent.   
 Q.  The last time you met Stan was in the 2015 Roland Garros semifinal, which he won.  Do you take anything from that match?  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yes, of course.  I try to take advantage of every match I did in my career.  Of course, some things in this match make me learn a lot.  Hope it's going to be something positive for me for the next one.   
 Q.  If you could get a photo or a selfie with anyone in the world outside of tennis, who would that be?  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Michael Jackson (smiling).  Yeah, it would be great with Michael.  Like this I could show it to everybody, Look.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT