QATAR EXXONMOBIL OPEN
January 3, 2017
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. TSONGA/A. Kuznetsov
6-1, 4-6, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.
Q. Talk about the match.  You seemed unstoppable in the first set and then things got tricky.  What changed for you and how do you feel you did in the end?
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah, I thought well.  Played pretty good in the first set.  Then I was waiting a little bit more in the second for the good shot.
In the first I went on the first shot, and in the other one, I don't know why in the second I was waiting for something.  I don't know what.
In the third set I came back to like the first set and it was good.
Yeah, good match.  Good to win.  It's not a full match, but it's a pretty good level I played in these two sets.
Yeah, good for tomorrow.
Q. I think it's your first time back here since you won the title here.  Just what do you remember of that week you had here?  Is it nice coming book somewhere you've had success?
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah, of course it's nice.  It means, yeah, I didn't lost for the moment since the last time here, so it's good for my confidence.
Yeah, that's it.  I mean, I'm really happy to be back.  I have a good welcome here.  It's great.  Great to play tennis.  The court is good.  Everything is good.
Yeah, it's nice to start the season like this.
Q. Can you talk a little about coming back from those injuries and how you're feeling now physically?
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: I'm feeling good now.  To be honest, 2016 was long.  I'm finally healthy.  It's good.  It's good because I feel like I can play 100% every day.  I can practice consistently.
For me, it's something new, so I will, yeah, enjoy it and try to stay healthy and try to rise my level.
Q. You remember you told me one of the things you worked on was your serve, trying to make it a bit more efficient, save energy, something like that.
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah, I had to just change.  At the end of last year I change a little bit my serve to save my knee because they're old and they need good treatment.
Yeah, I was pushing only on one leg before, and now I'm pushing more on two legs.  It's good for my knee.  It's also good for my game.  I'm serving well like this, so I will continue on this way.
Q. How was the Coldplay concert?
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: The Coldplay concert in Abu Dhabi was great.  It was good fun.  Yeah, it was good to have the New Eve like this.  I mean, I did it few years ago.  It was great, too.  Yeah, that's it.
Q. Are you the kind of guy who does New Year's resolutions?  Do you have any for 2017?
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: I would say I'm the guy who's doing a resolution every day.  So, yeah, I'm that kind of guy who don't wait the new year to do resolution.
Q. What's the resolution of the day?
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Of the day?
Q. Yeah.
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: It was to stay focused on my game today, but it was, well, not really good.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT