BNP PARIBAS MASTERS PARIS
November 5, 2016
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
M. RAONIC/J. Tsonga   
6-2, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   
 Q.  The beginning of the match was tough luck.  You were broken.  Did it have an influence on the match?  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Of course.  It was not that special in the beginning of the match, because he played extremely well.  He played forehands and backhands and the angles, so it's not because I played bad.  He played two wonderful shots, and the last passing I slipped, so I didn't reach the ball.  I'm not even sure it was in the court, anyway.   
That's why I lost my serve.  That was tough on me, because I wanted to start off extremely strongly, because I know when I start well it's always easier afterwards.  So that's a pity for the first set.   
And the second set I had some opportunities and was a bit shy on the opportunities I had on my returns.  He played his match, and he served well.  His serve was difficult to return.  He served extremely well today.   
 Q.  Your serve, compared with your usual standard, was not so good today.  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Well, the thing is I got broken in the first set, so I almost wanted to play immediately the second set, because he served so well.  It's tough to break him.   
After that, he was relaxed.  He was hitting hard on every point.  In the second set I was solid.  On the tiebreaker, I have no regrets, because on his serves I couldn't reach the ball.  He served extremely well all along the match.   
 Q.  We have three big servers left in the tournament.  We know the surface is faster this year.  Isn't it a pity?  What do you think?  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: I don't really have an opinion about that, because these players are not the ones always winning in Wimbledon where the surface is extremely fast.   
So on these surfaces, we all have some assets that we can use.  It's not only the big servers.  A player like Bautista played very well, and he's not that tall.  So there is room for everyone.   
It's part of the game.  That's all I can say.  Who's in the semis?  Cilic?  Cilic is also in finals when the surface is slower.   
 Q.  The traditional question in this final tournament of the year, what are you going to do during the break?  Your ranking is a bit higher than you expected, maybe.  It's not bad for Australia.  You can be seeded.  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: I would say this year was complicated.  It was a difficult year with many injuries.  I had to withdraw many times.  So it was difficult for me to be motivated, because I had pain when I was playing, so I was not feeling well.   
So I was not able to have the year I wanted to have.  But I played 14, 15 tournaments.  The better-ranked players have played twice as many tournaments, so I'll be top 12, top 13 in the end of the year.   
But I have room for improvement.  I was feeling better in the end of this season, and if I prepare well during the winter, I can do something good for next year.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT