BNP PARIBAS MASTERS PARIS
November 3, 2016
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. TSONGA/K. Nishikori   
0-6, 6-3, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  First set and second set you are two different person.  What's happening between two set?  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: I just woke up, which is good, before it was too late.   
I just -- yeah, I just try to be even more aggressive and try to hit harder the ball, and harder and harder, and that's it.   
 Q.  I know you have been playing for a long time.  But it's not every day you lose a first set at Love, save match points and win.  What did it feel like to have that kind of experience?  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Well, to be honest, I feel good.  I feel good tonight.  It's good to win.  You never know how it's going to be when you go on your match.   
Today I was a little bit stress.  I don't know why.  Because I'm playing good tennis, and I want to do well.  I was tight, and I start -- he play really good, return really well, put a lot of pressure.  He keep the ball really low on court, and it was difficult for me.   
And then I tried to serve a little bit better and then to be a little bit more aggressive.  And that's it.  It give me the opportunity to win this second set and stay alive.  And in the end, I was a little bit lucky on the return, because my return took the net.  I won the point on this.  And after that, he played two double faults.  He give me the opportunity to come back.   
 Q.  How important was the crowd especially on the tiebreak in the last set?  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: I mean, you know, when you play against a crowd, it's always difficult because you have to wait for them.  It's not easy.   
I know what is it, so, yeah, today it was something important for me.  They gave me the opportunity to disturb a little bit my opponent, I think, which is not really fair, but which is good for me, because I win this match.  Other way maybe I would not.   
Yeah, it was -- anyway, was a good match for me, because after the first set I played pretty good tennis.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   
 Q.  You were talking about the crowd when they booed at you after the first set.  What did you feel?  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Well, we are here to give our best, so that first set didn't go well for me.  I made double faults, things like that, but it was because I want to do well.   
So in those cases, the crowd boos at you.  And my reaction is, Okay, you're booing me?  No problem.  I'm going to continue to try to do my best.   
Today I was able to turn it over and win the match.  It was a good thing for me when they booed, because it made me react and become more aggressive afterwards.   
 Q.  In the last set, did you have the feeling you were experiencing one of those great nights in Bercy once again?  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: I don't know.  That was a long time ago.  I don't remember.   
 Q.  When you were booed, did you believe the crowd was a bit tough on you or do you think they were right?  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Well, each time I'm thinking I'm playing a bad set.  But even if I play bad, I still try my best.  I give everything I have on the spur of the moment.   
It's not that I was not running around and not trying to hit the ball, but then the crowd is free of thinking what they want.  But from the first point to the last, I was 100% into it.   
 Q.  To turn around a match when you lose 6-Love, it means you were under pressure.  What did go through your mind?  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: There's nothing to think about.  The only thing you can do is just keep trying.  Let it go.   
In the first set I was taking risks on my returns, but it was not very good.  I didn't have the right timing.  But little by little, I was able to get settled and to play better.  So my confidence came back, and I was able to play better.   
 Q.  It's your third victory against a top 10 this year.  Does this motivate you to have others like tomorrow or in 2017?  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Well, certainly it gives me the desire to go as far as I can in this tournament, try to get the trophy.  I will just play match after match.   
Tomorrow will be a totally different opponent.  I feel fit.  I'm in good shape.  I'm going to go onto the court tomorrow wanting to win.   
 Q.  You have now a good level, whereas two months ago you were injured.  Are you surprised?  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: No, I'm not surprised.  Because even when I'm not well, I still am able to win some matches.  Of course when I am totally injury-free, I can play very good matches like today where I can be 100%, and I'm up to par with the best players in the world.   
 Q.  You are talking about maybe winning the tournament.  This would give you the possibility of going to London.  Do you have that in mind?  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: No, I'm not thinking about that, because I'm far from that.  Tomorrow is only a quarterfinal with a long way to go still.   
I'm really just thinking about trying to qualify for the semis here.  Against my next opponent I didn't play very well the last time we played, so I would like really to win that match tomorrow.   
 Q.  If you're an alternate in the Masters, are you going to go?  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: I don't know.  I didn't even think about it.  For the time being, I'm top 12 or top 13 in the race, so I'm not the alternate for the time being.  We'll see.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT