CITI OPEN
August 1, 2019
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. EDMUND/J. Tsonga
4-6, 6-3, 6-4
Q. Just initial thoughts on the match today, overall how you played?
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah, today was a good match.  He played pretty solid.  I mean, in the second set, a few opportunities, I was a little bit too defensive, not enough aggressive on the second set.  And then he just turned the match.
Q. What was the biggest adjustment you felt like you made the second and third set?
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah, just like I said, just be a little bit more aggressive.  A few shots where I can do something else, and that's it.
Q. You had 18 aces and you won more first and second serve points and you won more first and second returns.  You out-paced him on all those stats.  How does it happen that you lose the match if you're doing so well?
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: You know, this is tennis, you know?  When you play football, if you make one goal more than the others, it's a win.  Not in tennis.  In tennis it's different, a different sport.  At the end, it's not -- it's not the guy who's going to win more points is going to be the guy who's going to win the point, the points you need to win the match.
Q. Obviously you had such a tough 2018 and then coming back from 2019, but how do you look back on your two matches here?  Is there anything you can take away obviously with a really good win over Karen?
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah, of course I can take some positive things.  I played two good matches before.  This one is good, too.  For sure it's going to be -- for the moment I'm a little bit disappointed, but for the next few days it's going to be an important match to continue to increase my level and be a better player.
Q. Coming back from this injury and just what you've been doing, what's keeping you inspired or keeping you focused throughout this whole time?
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: You know, what inspired me, I still think I can improve many things, and that's why every day I do my commitment and come to the court and try to work on what I'm doing good and also where I'm not that good.  Yeah, just continue to improve.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT