WIMBLEDON
July 3, 2016
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. TSONGA/J. Isner
  6‑7, 3‑6, 7‑6, 6‑2, 19‑17

THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. I don't know if you know, but you've never lost five‑set match at Wimbledon. Your record is 6‑0. Did you know that at all?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA: I didn't know. I didn't know. But I'm happy to win today one more match. 
Yeah, it's good to be alive. Hope I will have a good recovery from this one and tomorrow be fit to play. 

Q. How relieved were you when you got the break in the final set?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA: You know, I was waiting for it since a while (smiling). 
Yeah, it was a good feeling, you know, to have this break in my pocket at this moment. Then after that, I played pretty good on my serve, and I closed it finally. 
Anyway, John did a great job on serve, and it was really close today. 

Q. John Isner said to us that he would like to see a tiebreak introduced in the final set. Would you be in favor of that?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA: You know, for me it's 50/50. Of course, for us it's good to finish it, because the winner will play another match and continue. Sometime it's better for the body. At the same time, it's good for the crowd and for the people around, for the story. 
Yeah, I don't know what to say. I don't know if I'm for it or against it. But, anyway, today it's like this and we will play. Yeah, probably what is difficult for us is to play the day after. For sure tomorrow I will play. 
It's a little bit sad because a few days ago I won my first match, and I wait two days to play my second match. They didn't schedule me on the second day. 
Now, you know, I have to play three days in a row. Yeah, that's a little bit unfair, but I'm prepared for it. Tomorrow is going to be another day. 

Q. Despite the fact of the rain delays, having to come in today, it was quite an atmosphere with a different type of crowd. Can you talk about the crowd and how that helped you. 
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah, today I was surprised to have exactly the same welcome I had yesterday on court, because yesterday was already very special. When I came on the court with John, all the people was stand up and clapping. It was nice. 
Today was exactly the same. Yeah, I don't know why, but anyway was a really good atmosphere on court today.

Q. When you see a result like yesterday, where Novak, who seems to be unbeatable loses, what sort of mindset does that give to others in the locker room? Is it a door opening? Is there a different mentality?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA: I think for most of us it's somebody different will win a Grand Slam, but that's it. 

Q. Not so much that anyone can win?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah, that's what I say. I mean, when you see somebody like Novak lost, you know, you just say maybe this year it's going to be a new champion. 

Q. When the sets start going 6‑All, 10‑All, 12‑All, you know it's Isner, did you start thinking a little bit about Nicolas Mahut at all?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA: A little bit. A little bit (smiling). For me, the time I would spend on court, it's not the most important. The most important today was to win and continue. Yeah, I was focused on the game and not really on the other things. 
But to be honest, yeah, once, I said, Maybe it's going to be long like Nicolas. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT