WIMBLEDON
June 28, 2016
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. TSONGA/I. Cervantes
  6‑4, 7‑6, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
   
 Q. How satisfied are you with this performance, given you haven't played for a month?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah, I'm very satisfied. I did what I expect, I mean, to win. Yeah, it's good to be back on court after this month out.   
It was not easy, of course, on the court because when you didn't play for a while, you always looking for the good shot.   
But, yeah, was okay.   
   
 Q. Is it different to play in a tournament like this without having had any practice on grass? Was it difficult at all?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah, I had time to practice on grass. I'm now practicing on grass since two weeks. The most difficult is to play points and to deal with the pressure and everything. Yeah, when you didn't play for a moment, you forget that the emotion on the court is really high. It's difficult.   
   
 Q. What do the Euros mean to you in terms of how closely you're following it and the passion of the game?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah, I think I'm following the soccer every day. We have time in between the practice to see a few matches. Of course, I support a lot the French team. They're doing well for the moment. It's pretty exciting.   
   
 Q. What are your thoughts about Iceland against France this weekend?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA: You know, I'm a sportsman and I know that you have to win the match. It's never easy. If they are here it's because they deserve it. They played well the last few games.   
It's always dangerous to play a team like this because they have nothing to lose. For sure they will be dangerous.   
   
 Q. Are you 100% fit now after the injury?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah, I'm 100% fit. But in Roland Garros, you know, I felt also really fit. I forgot that I have something before. Finally, you know, it can come back.   
I think for me it's important to stay focused and do everything to be in good shape.   
   
 Q. You're not in any discomfort now?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA: No, not at all.   
   
 Q. What do you think of the Wimbledon towels? To what degree are they popular with friends and family of yours?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah, all the Grand Slam towels are really unique. All the family, all the friend, book the towels before the tournament. The first round is for me, the second round is for these people (smiling).   
Always, when I go out of the court, the fans ask for the towels. I say, Sorry, it's booked already.   
   
 Q. How do you like the Wimbledon towel and what makes it special?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA: I mean, they're all different. I would not say one is better than others because they're all different. They all clear the face really well (smiling).   
No, but, I mean, they are famous, for sure.   
   
 Q. You've had your fair share of injuries over time. How often in a year would you play a match and take pain medication before a match, or have to, to be on antiinflammatories?   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA: Sorry?   
   
 Q. How often in a year would you play matches taking medication?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA: For me it's really special because I just hate like these kind of things. I took them really if I will play a semis or a final, I have something, and I don't want the pain at all. Other way, I would not take it at all. I prefer to feel the pain and see how it is.   
In the past, I had so many problems in my body, I took them sometimes. But it doesn't mean you don't have anything. It's just a fake. Sometimes you do worst to your body when you take these kind of things.   
   
 Q. As you've seen Novak Djokovic do what he's done over the last year, winning four majors in a row, now halfway to the calendar‑year Grand Slam, what observations do you have of what impresses you the most about what he's doing on the court?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA: You know, the most impressive, of course, it's to be consistent like he does. I mean, he's just amazing. But I think he deserve it. It's because he's doing the good stuff on the court and outside.   
I think he just deserve it. That's it. When you play tennis and you're professional, you know how it is to make all the commitment every day. It's really difficult. I think he's the guy who's doing the best job. That's it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT