ROLAND GARROS
May 24, 2016
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. TSONGA/J. Struff   
6-3, 6-4, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   
 Q.  Well, quite simple.  That is, you've started in a consistent way.  That's interesting.  It didn't take too much of your energy, even though the conditions were difficult.  I suppose this was the priority, not to take too much of your energy for first round?  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah.  My priority was to win, which is what I did.  And then the conditions were tough for the players today, and I think I fared well.  But then, for sure I would have preferred if I had been more precise or to be even better.   
But this was good.  Today I will have to do with this.  And then the next round is going to be yet again different.  Here again, I'll have to adapt.   
 Q.  Well, something about your physical condition.  I know it's a curse for you.  It's essential.  What about this alert in Rome?  How do you feel today?  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Today I'm happy.  I feel more reassured.  That is, now I can play my tennis completely.  We had interesting rallies and physically I did what I wanted to do.  I didn't feel anything that was nasty.  So that's very positive for me.  I hope I'll be able to continue in the same way and that all of these little physical problems are finished, over and done with.   
 Q.  We have seen many comments about your outfit on the social media, and some like it.  Others say it's a bit weird.  How do you feel wearing that?  What do you think about what you look like?  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Well, I'm okay.  I feel I like what I wear.  Everything's okay.   
Really, if I didn't like that, I wouldn't wear it.  But I think it's different.  At least it's a bit of a difference, that's true.  But I like what I wear.   
That's really what matters.  And then it's a bit like everything in life.  There are those who are in favor; those who are against.   
What is important is that people talk about it.   
 Q.  Could you say something about the next opponent?  That's Marcos Baghdatis.  You have not lost.  You played six times.  You won six times.  I know it doesn't mean much, even though psychologically it means you have the upper hand.  I think you played the first round against him in Australia.  What about next round then against him?  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Well, what I want of course is to win.  I will be on the court to win, of course.   
And this is what I did the last six times I played against him.  I don't want to give him any opportunities.  I don't even want him to believe that there's a door that's slightly open.   
No, I will be really strong, and we'll see.  I hope that this is going to be a big match, and I'll go through to the third round.   
 Q.  What would you say you miss today?  Are there things that you miss when you play on clay, or you have everything?  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: No, I have everything.  You know, the thing I want to know is what's going to happen when the two weeks are over.   
So far, when I start Roland Garros, I'm always taking some rest before I play the first round, which is what I did this year.   
This has been rather positive, so I do hope that again I'll be able to play my best tennis here at the French Open, and then we'll see what's going to happen in the future.   
But frankly, I'm optimistic.  I have a good level of confidence, and I'll play my best tennis.   
 Q.  You've won your 99th win in a Grand Slam.  You're not far away from Jean Borotra's record.  That's 104.  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Oh, really?   
 Q.  Yeah, that's what I saw.  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Oh, I didn't know about these numbers, these statistics.  Now I will remember it.  Thank you very much.  No, that's great, that's great.   
I didn't expect this.  This is a surprise for me.  When I was a kid, I thought, Oh, if I could play till the age of 28, this would be great.  And I'm 31 today.  And I feel fit.  I think I have the right form for good performances, so I'll try and win more Grand Slam matches.  And why not?  Perhaps continue to win a few trophies.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT