ROLAND GARROS
May 20, 2016
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR: Questions in French.
Q. When did you make the decision to come to Roland Garros?  When did you think you could defend your chances?
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Well, the decision, I took it last year when I decided to start a new season.  Then after the little glitch in Rome I was fairly quickly reassured -- I talked to my physicians and they told me it would be fine.  They said, You'll go.
Q. You played in South America on clay.  What was it like?  How did it help you?  Did you go there just as the first one of the Davis Cup, or was it more generally to prepare for the French Open?
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Well, I think it was to get a bit more of a chance to play on clay, but not only.  It was, you know, an opportunity maybe to put less stress on my joints, you know.  Playing on hard, on hardcourt, it puts a lot of stress on your joints.  There was a lot of reasons for me to go there, so I did.
Does it change anything for the French Open?  Has it changed anything for the Davis Cup?  I don't know, but I guess it didn't hurt.
Q. How did you mentally prepare for the French Open?  Did you do anything special?
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: I did a lot of re-education for my adductors.  I did a lot of physical work, which is, I guess, standard practice.  You know, this is a tough tournament where you can play very long games, first of all, very long matches, and I wanted to be physically in good shape hopefully to go as far as possible for each game.
Q. How is the training?  Was it enough to be reassured?  Roger withdrew.  Do you think you can go five sets without a problem?
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Honestly, simply being here is a great opportunity.  Roger has won lots of tournaments, Grand Slams, and so the approach, I think, is the way you arrive at a tournament is just not the same between him and me.
Again, I'm very happy to be here, and I'm here to do as well as I can, and I'm sure of course he would say the same.
But I have had a lot of difficulties in my career, and you just can't say every single time something goes wrong I'm not playing, because I would have almost never played or half seasons only.
Being here today I think is a real opportunity.  I'm very happy to be here.  Simply getting on the court is wonderful.
Q. You're going to be wearing an interesting outfit with stripes.  Last year we had pink shorts.  Given your game, given your nature, given your way of life, what animal are you trying to get the closest to?
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Oh, that is a tough one.  Ooh.  I have no idea.  I have no idea.  Let me think.  I think several animals.  Maybe the sloth, the koala.  More seriously, I don't know.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT