MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 16, 2016
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








G. MONFILS/J. Tsonga
6-1, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.
Q. You were not able to get into that match.
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Unfortunately I had a poor start.  In the beginning, I made some mistakes that I don't usually do.  I missed a lot in the beginning.  It became complicated.  I was always behind, trying to catch up.  And he was playing very well.
I think it helped him being relaxed.  He broke me twice.  After that, I was always behind.  I was not able to do what I usually do well with my forehand.  My forehand was out by 10 centimeters.  I never succeeded in getting back into that match.
Q. When you don't start well, is it because of the stress, or it has nothing to do with it?
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Well that particular moment, everything was going well for me.  I felt good.  Yesterday during the match against Roger, I felt something in my knee.  Since the beginning of the week, thanks to the medical service, I was feeling good.  Except yesterday, I had a little thing.
But the staff really helped me and I was healthy today thanks to them.  I have no excuse the way I played today.  But my forehand was out by 10 centimeters and I can't explain why.
At the end of the match I hung in there.  I put enough intensity into it, but the balls were out again.
Q. Maybe your knee was on your mind?
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Not at all.  That's what I was saying.  It's thanks to the medical staff.  When I came here in the tournament, it was hurting a little.  Dr. Patrick Coudert and his staff really helped me a lot this week, and I really would like to congratulate them.  If you could talk about it, it would be great because they were fantastic.
Today I was feeling good.
Q. In that game trying to get 4-4, you tried to mix up the pace?
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Of course, if I had made it at 4-All, the story would have been different.  But, again, my forehand was not good.  I missed.  I would have liked to be at 4-All to see what would happen next.
Q. Often when two Frenchmen play, it's you who is able to play well.  But today you didn't succeed.  That's rare for you.
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: It's true that it didn't happen to me too often to totally miss my match against another French player or not to make it difficult for them.
In general, the score is tighter.  It's rare that I totally miss a match like I did today.
But coming out of the court, I think the week was positive.  I have a good series, and after the American tour, I believe I'm in a good place.  Sometimes, of course, things don't go your way, and this is what happened today.  But I'm happy for Gael.  He's playing very well right now.  The fact that this match was short gives him a chance of being fresh tomorrow.  It's bad for me, but it's good for him, I'd say.  It's good for our group, that we are all playing well, that we are all emulating each other.
Q. It was tough for you today, but when you see Gael playing that well, do you believe he has the potential to give trouble to Rafa?
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Well, it's going to be a tennis match, and in a tennis match anything can happen.  I wish Gael to be able to win, of course.  But it's not going to be easy.  Rafa is back in good shape now.  I saw him today.  Apart from the first set, he played solid.  I hope Gael will play a good match and everyone will enjoy watching it.
Q. You hugged after the match.  What did you say to each other?
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Nothing special.  I told him he played well.  We were not going to be over emotional, of course.  I just said, Well played.  I told him I was hoping he was going to play a good final.
Q. He managed the match.  Were you impressed?
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Well, he was really good.  He made a lot of progress during the past matches.  He's much more consistent now.  He was able to hold up during the whole match.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT