MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 14, 2016
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. TSONGA/L. Pouille
6-4, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.
Q. How did you feel today?
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: It was okay.  It was not great tennis from both of us.  I believe the conditions were difficult.  It was cold.  The balls were cold and they were not bouncing high.  It was difficult to play neutral shots.  It was difficult to play topspin.  My opponent was playing flat, fast, with heavy balls.
It was difficult to play well, but I was the one able to pull it out.  I am still in the tournament.  Tomorrow will be another match.
Q. Do you believe he can become the No. 1 French player like Richard said?
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: I don't want to say anything about that because it's taking chances.  We never know what will happen.  I can say one thing and the other thing will happen.  Lucas is the only one who knows what he has in him.
He's on the right track anyway.  He can go far.  Maybe he can become an even better player.  That's all I can say.
Q. You used your experience today.  Was it a factor in the match?
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: A little bit.  Well, I can say I have more experience than he has.  This is a fact.  You can't change that.  Now, did I use that experience today?  Well, certainly.  I'm used to those all-French matches.  Maybe it had an effect.
Q. According to the stats, you prefer to play Federer than Djokovic.
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: I don't have the stats in mind.  But it's true, I prefer to play Federer than Djokovic.  If you're saying that, it means the stats are better against Federer, indeed.
Q. But you beat Novak a lot in the beginning.
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Well, yes.  But lately I was able to beat Roger more often than Novak.  So in recent years, I prefer to play Roger than Novak.
Q. You played him a long time ago, maybe 2014.
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: But we know each other very well.  We didn't drastically change our games, either of us.  We always have the same weapons.  Maybe we improved in certain parts of our game, but this we will discover tomorrow.
But our games even out very often and the matches are good to watch.  So I hope tomorrow will be a good battle and that I will come out as the winner.
Q. Did you look at his first matches?
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yes, I saw he was fit because he beat Bautista today.  He's not an easy opponent.  I know what I'm talking about.  So if he won in straight sets today, it means he's in good shape and that he's feeling good after the surgery.
I have no doubt that he is able to be at his best level as soon as tomorrow.
Q. He was rarely injured.  Are you surprised?
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Well, medicine has made a lot of progress.  I know also what I'm talking about because I was saved by medicine.  I believe I wouldn't have lasted on the tour as long as I have without that.  In the beginning, it was quite complicated.  I didn't believe at 31 I still would be fit and I could have some ambitions in tennis.
I believe it's even worse for him.  He wasn't injured very often in his career.  He's 34.  He has all the titles behind him.  He plays quite relaxed.  So I'm not surprised he's at that level today still.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT