BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 18, 2016
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
N. DJOKOVIC/J. Tsonga   
7-6, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Tough match.  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah.   
 Q.  I'd like to ask you a general question.  You're one of a handful of players who has played Roger and Rafa and of course Novak.  Could you just briefly compare them?  Which one at their peak do you think is the best?  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: I mean, it's tough to judge with the best.  They all are really good.  I mean, if you have to count Grand Slam, it's maybe Federer.  If you have to count number of title, it's maybe Federer.   
And then you have two guys who are just amazing.  Rafa was the best on clay for 10 years, and Novak, he's now the actual best player, I think, because he's No. 1 since a while now.  So it's tough to compare.   
Yeah.  Anyway, they will be part of history, and for sure for a long time.  Yeah, they're good players.   
 Q.  For the fun of it, let me take it a different way.  You're being a good sport.  If you talk about just on not Grand Slams won, not surface, but just level of play, talent, talk about that from that perspective.  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: I think talent is subjective.  I can say that in English?  Subjective.  You know, talent is -- you can have talent for fighting.  You can have talent for precision.  You can have talent for intelligence of play.   
So, you know, is tough to speak about it, because for me -- yeah, it's not about talent.  I don't know.  Yeah, maybe it's about talent but different talent.   
 Q.  You guys played such a close match, both of those sets.  What did you feel like Djokovic did in both of those tiebreakers that gave you the most trouble?  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Can you repeat this one, please?   
 Q.  What did you feel like Novak did in both of those tiebreakers that gave you the most trouble when things got down to the wire?  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: He was solid.  He didn't give one point in those tiebreaks, which was not my case.  I gave some of them, and it makes the difference at the end.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT