AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 22, 2016
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. TSONGA/P. Herbert   
6-4, 7-6, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Looks like you had to fight hard for the win, especially in the last two sets.  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah, exactly.  The match was not easy.  Straight set, but it was tough.  I had in the two last set the first break, and then he broke me right back.  So for me was, anyway, a good match, a good level.   
Yeah, I'm pretty happy the way I played today, except one or two games.   
 Q.  Do you feel like you're in pretty good condition right now, feeling pretty fit at the moment?  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah, I'm feeling good.  I had a good break season.  Yeah, I'm feeling good.  So hope I will play better and better.  I need matches anyway because I think I'm feeling good physically.  But I really need to play better and better if I want to continue to be good in this tournament.   
 Q.  Obviously got Nishikori coming up.  You've played him a few times before.  Are you expecting another tough battle against him?  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah, of course.  Every time we played, it was a good fight.  We have a different style.  Anyway, yeah, it's going to be good I think - for spectator, for sure.  For us, we'll see.   
But anyway, I'm ready to battle.   
 Q.  How do you feel about the surface of this tournament this year specifically?  Some players said got faster than last year, and some say it's almost the same.  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: I think it's a little bit faster than the last five years.  I was not here last year, so I don't know.  But, yeah, a little bit faster.   
But I think it's good.  It's good for the players because then you have to rally for so many balls.  The season is long.  For the players I think it's good also to have this kind of surface.   
We have the clay, we have few tournaments who are slow.  I mean, it's good to have these kind of surface.   
 Q.  Of course, you like faster surface, right?  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Not at all.  I like to play on clay, too.  I like everything.  You know, I had good results here in the past.  No, I'm feeling good everywhere.   
 Q.  What makes Nishikori such a tough opponent, do you think?  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: He's really fast.  He's consistent.  He never move from his baseline.  That's the most difficult things to do, is to push him in the backyard.  Is difficult because he takes the ball early and he's consistent.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT