SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 18, 2015
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. DJOKOVIC/J. Tsonga
  6‑2, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
   
 Q. It seemed like you settled into the match in the second set. Talk about how fast the first set kind of went and how you found your footing in the second set.   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah, in the first set, it goes quick. It's not easy to stop him. Is really consistent on his return. Today I didn't serve enough well to make him doubt, especially in the first set.   
After that, in the second, I served a little bit better, and it give me opportunity to have a chance maybe on his serve. But finally I was not able to do it, and he broke me at 4‑All.   
   
 Q. How impressive is his year? Except for Doha, he's been in every final. This was his ninth win. That's pretty tough to do.   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah, it's really difficult to do. He's able to do it. Not many guys are able to do that. It's really impressive.   
Yeah, today there is nothing to say. He's playing a lot better than everybody, I think. He's really consistent. You have to be in your best shape to beat him anyway, and everybody knows that it's not easy to play your best tennis every match.   
Yeah, I think his level is just better than everybody for the moment.   
   
 Q. Did you watch last evening's semifinal? If you did, does that kind of thing play on your mind before a big match?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA: No. I watch a little bit because, of course, you want to know how it goes, what you can do exactly.   
But today there is nothing to do. I mean, I saw Andy was in a good shape yesterday, and was not able to make him doubt at all.   
So, yeah, today I just tried to play the best tennis I can, and that's it.   
   
 Q. You're coming back into the top 10 now. You'll be No.9 in the rankings. Can you talk a little bit about that?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA: I'm No.9 I think at the Race but not in the ranking.   
For me what is important today is to play good tennis. I'm really happy with the week I did. Of course, I want to do better against Novak. But really happy about this week.   
It give me energy to continue to fight for the Masters, and it's good.   
   
 Q. Jo, actually you played very well in Shanghai, especially with Rafa. Are you satisfied with yourself this week?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah, I'm very satisfied. Yeah, you know, to come back at your best level, it's always a long process. I'm happy today to be back really close to the top 10.   
Yeah, like I said just before, it give me energy, you know, to continue to work hard and try to achieve other good things.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT