SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 16, 2015
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. TSONGA/K. Anderson
  7‑6, 5‑7, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. Jo, tough match out there. You looked happy when it was over. Talk a little bit about the match, what it means to be in the semis here. 
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah, was a good match. Was good level, I think. We both play good tennis. I will not speak about Kevin, but about me. I played good tennis. I was really aggressive. I served really, really well today. I moved well. 
Yeah, I'm just really happy to win today. It come at the good moment. Yeah, it's good to play like this. 

Q. You had the only break today. What is your secret?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA: The only what? 

Q. Service break. 
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA: No, because Kevin broke me in the second set. But I don't know. 

Q. You chased your best performance in Shanghai in 2013. It's your best performance after your injury?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA: I think I play one of my best tennis. I really like the way I played, my comportment on court. That's really me. I hope I will be able to do that every match. 

Q. You won two consecutive tough matches. How are you physically? Your next match will be tough, too. 
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA: I'm feeling good. Of course, I spend a lot of time on court. But to be honest, I'm also surprised to be like this. 
Of course, I worked a lot to be able to play few matches like this. But I feel really, really good. It's good things for the next match. 

Q. About that next match, obviously Rafa or Stan. Thoughts on either one of them? 
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA: I mean, they both huge player. We can see that Rafa really want to come back at his best. He's really focused. I saw him on the previous match. He wants to be back at the best level. 
If it's him, I know it's going to be a tough match. He's going to give everything. I'll have to play at the same level I played the last few days to beat him, other way it's impossible. 
And Stan, he's in a good shape. Everybody knows that he's now one of the best. It's always tough to play against him. 
Anyway, I will have a difficult match. 

Q. It's not easy to recover from your injury. How did you get through that time? 
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah, it's never easy because you lost time. You lost time to be a better player. All the other guy play and they improve a lot their game. You just hope. Then you have to come back at your level. Plus, because the other guys at this time are even better. 
It always take times. I really happy to be back at the good level. It's good things for next year. The most important for me now it's to stay healthy and continue to play and improve my game. 

Q. After you win today's match, you had a long celebration. You have your winning dance, change your shoe, flying kisses with your girlfriend, sign long on the camera. Is there any celebration tonight?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA: No, tonight I will stay quiet, sleep, try to sleep well. Nothing special, no. 
I'm really happy. Of course, I'm happy about the results. That's not the main things. I think the main things, it's the way I just play the last two days. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT