CHINA OPEN
October 5, 2015
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
   
 Q. Could you talk us through what happened in the match, particularly the injury or illness problem.   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA: I just lost today. Didn't play a good match. The first set was not good, and that's it.   
When you play at this level, you know, you cannot play like this, miss like this. When you're not consistent, for sure you lost. That's it.   
   
 Q. Today is a day of high pollution in Beijing. Did this affect your play in some way?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA: I don't know. You know, nothing in me can calculate if it's enough oxygen for me or not. I just play tennis.   
Today I had an opponent, he was just better than me today.   
   
 Q. You did call the trainer out. Why did you call the trainer?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA: Just like 'vertige', I don't know how you call it in English. I was like dizzy. It came just like this, on one run. After one run, I went back to play a return, and I feel a little bit dizzy.   
But hope it's nothing important.   
   
 Q. How long did you feel dizzy? Will you now seek any medical advice to find out what it was?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA: It was just on this game, on these two, three points. Then I went back to the bench, I had time to recover, then I was okay.   
   
 Q. When the doctor checked you, what was his suggestion for you? Will it influence your Shanghai tournament or other following tournaments?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA: No. For me it's not really important what happened when I was a little bit dizzy. The most important for me in this match was the start of the match and this first set I lost. The second set I didn't play well. That's it. Today I didn't lost because I was dizzy, I just lost because I was bad, and that's it.   
You know, I'm not that player with very consistent. I'm able to lost first round here and play a very good tournament next week. So for me it doesn't affect my belief.   
Today I'm a little bit frustrated, but I know I will be able to play next week and play better tennis.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT