U.S. OPEN
September 8, 2015
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
M. CILIC/J. Tsonga   
6-4, 6-4, 3-6, 6-7, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Must be very frustrating to have come back so far and then not to be able to finish.  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah, of course, of course.  I would like to be a winner today, but unfortunately I lost.  It's a lot of frustration, of course, but that's tennis.   
 Q.  In your mind, what was the difference at the end?  What should you have done differently or what could you have done differently at the end?  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: He just hit the ball a little bit more properly than me at the right moment, and that was a huge difference at the end, because he just made it.  He just made it.   
 Q.  I know you don't want to make any excuses, but how much was the knee a factor?  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: I don't know.  I don't really want to talk about this, you know.  It's part of the game unfortunately for me.   
Yeah, that's it.   
 Q.  Between the second and the third set, you got a wrap.  Did that help for a while?  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Well, the thing is he just drop down a little bit, and, me, I just stay at the same level.  It was not something better or...  But was quite the same level.   
And, yeah, it just made the difference because he dropped a little bit.   
 Q.  You had the crowd very much on your side for most of the match.  He was trying to steal them back.  Did you find that annoying or irritating?  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Oh, no, it's great.  It's great.  I don't know.  I'm very lucky to have the support all the time.  Just enjoy, make me enjoy a little bit more.  Even when you lost, you know, it's always good to have a good fight with a good crowd supporting you.   
So, yeah, I thank them for that, and I hope it's going to continue.   
 Q.  At what point did you feel after having lost the first two sets that you were back in the match and had a chance to win it?  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah, I just keep on going and try to do my best on court, make him play one ball, one more ball, and that's it.  And that's it.   
And you know when you're on court -- when I was on court, I didn't realize that I was coming back.  You know, I was just playing point after point.  That's it.   
 Q.  You had not lost a service game coming into today.  Do you think it was more today him playing well and getting into your service games, or are you not as pleased with the way you...  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Well, I think the serve is the only thing you know about yourself when you play tennis.  If you make it right, you make it right.  Nobody can touch you when you serve.  Nobody can disturb you.  You have the ball in the hand.   
And today I just served, I would say, very bad compared to the other day.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT