COUPE ROGERS
August 13, 2015
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. TSONGA/B. Tomic
  7‑6, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   
   
 Q. We saw you at the baseline at a certain moment when the serve was challenged. Later there was that ball that hit the tape. Were you lucky in this match?   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA: First thing, I was good today, I played well. To beat a player like Bernard, you need to be good because he has had very good results lately and he's improving a lot.   
This thing about the line was just for the show. We all have some luck now and then. It happens to everybody. Some days you are more lucky than others, or sometimes the luck comes at an important moment and sometimes not.   
But here it was not important because it was a let at 0‑0. I don't believe I was particularly lucky today.   
   
 Q. Don't you think those two moments put your opponent down.   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA: I don't think you can put an opponent down at 0‑0.   
   
 Q. We thought he had no more challenges and that he gave up after that.   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA: I don't know. I don't believe a player gives up just because he doesn't have any more challenges. I don't know what to say to you then.   
   
 Q. Do you feel your level has remained steady or are you improving match after match?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA: I feel I'm playing better and better. Today was very good. I really had some moments where I was able to play very good tennis, so it's positive for me. I hope I'll be able to keep it up and that I will even become more powerful because, of course, my opponents will become more and more powerful, too. I will need to be stronger and stronger.   
The closer you get to the end, the more top players you have to play. I think the next match will be a great challenge for me and I will do everything I can.   
   
 Q. It's going to be Andy in the quarters. Does this bring back memories?   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA: Are they going to come back? Maybe not, because there were matches in between, and one just one month ago.   
Here the conditions are different. Of course, the match will be different. So am I going to win or not? I don't know. But I will, of course, try to do everything to be the best player on the court tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT