WIMBLEDON
July 4, 2015
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







I. KARLOVIC/J. Tsonga
  7‑6, 4‑6, 7‑6, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   It's obviously a tough defeat for you to take.   Were you aware in the third set when you had set point that Karlovic appeared to double hit the ball at the net?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Fourth set. 

Q.   Fourth set, set point. 
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yeah, but, I mean, it's the job of the umpire, you know, to see it.   If he can't see it, I can't do anything.   Even if I saw it, I can't say anything, so... 

Q.   Do you think it should be the responsibility of a player to declare that on himself?   They would in golf, for instance. 
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Not really.   Otherwise we don't need umpire anymore. 
No, I think it's just about the umpire to see it if it's like this, and that's it.

Q.   You didn't seem to complain at the time.   I assume you didn't see it when it happened?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   I just look at the umpire.   He said no.   I said okay, next point.

Q.   Can you explain what it's like facing that Karlovic serve. 
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   It's like facing a guy who is serving well.   Yeah, it's not easy because even when he doesn't hit the ball really hard, you know, it's coming from very high.   So the bounce is different as usual. 
Yeah, that's why he's so difficult to return. 

Q.   When you see you have to play a guy like that, what goes through your mind?   What's the reaction?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   The reaction is it's no different than another players because you know anyway you have to be focused.   You have to try to take every opportunities he give you, and that's it. 
I mean, you know, sometimes he can play an unbelievable match, and sometimes he can miss a little bit more than today, and you win in straight sets. 
You know, today it was a good day for him.   He was pretty solid on his serve, and there is nothing to do when it's like this. 

Q.   He's getting older.   Are you surprised at his age he can still bring that much consistent serving?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yes.   Maybe if we have to run a kilometer or something like this, it's going to be more difficult for him.   But the serve, I think it's easy for him.   He did that since he's born, so he's okay. 

Q.   When you play a player like him and he's serving like that, do you think there's absolutely nothing you can do?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   No, you try to do some things.   You try to change a little bit your position.   You try to make him think a little bit more. 
But, yeah, then you can't do anything more.   Try to do your best.   Don't miss your opportunities.   That's it.

Q.   Do you have to guess before he serves because you don't have time to react?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Sometimes yes, sometimes no.   I mean, because he's tall, he's got the angle.   Sometimes even if you go, you don't touch the ball.   So sometimes you have to guess.   You know, it depends. 
That's why it's difficult, because you never know.   Sometimes you guess, and the ball is coming at you, and you cannot return.   Yeah, you have to choose anyway. 

Q.   Have you watched any of the replays yet from when you had set point in the fourth set, the possible double hit? 
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   No, it's not important for me.   I'm here after this match.   What I can do?   I mean, nothing.   Talk about it for one hour, two hours, four hours.   Anyway, it doesn't change the results.

Q.   Have you watched it back?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   No.   No.   I don't care, to be honest, because it's too late. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT