WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2015
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. TSONGA/G. Muller
  7‑6, 6‑7, 6‑4, 3‑6, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   Jo, today obviously was a very tough match against an opponent who was so good on grass.   What were your thoughts when you saw Gilles' name against yours?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   I thought it's going to be difficult, and it was.   He's a very good player, especially on grass and indoors.   He likes that kind of surface.   
Today he shows that he's able to play really good tennis.   
   
 Q.   When you have sets with lots of tiebreakers, a few opportunities to break, but not be able to do it, how do you stay concentrated going forward?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   It's always difficult when you miss a lot.   But I think it was not only my fault, you know.   It was also Gilles' fault.   You know, you try to stay in your match, try to stay positive.   It's not easy.   
But, you know, you do what you can.   At the end, the most important is to win, and I think today I did a good job.   
   
 Q.   The fifth set I suppose was the most convincing for you.   What was the difference in the end, do you think?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   I don't know.   I think maybe I played more fifth sets than him.   I don't know.   I have the experience, I have the confidence with me.   I think it was the difference.  
   
 Q.   Talking of playing five sets, how did you find it towards the latter stages of the match?   How was it out there in terms of the heat?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   I think today was not too much.   I don't know how much it was.   Anyway, the weather was good to play tennis, yeah.   Was not too humid.   Was okay for me.   
   
 Q.   It's set to hit 36, 37 later on this week.   The women get a heat break if they want to enforce it.   Is that something you'd like to see in the men's half of the draw, especially if it gets a lot warmer?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   I mean, I don't know.   In Australia anyway we play until, I don't know what, 42 degrees on court.   We will see if it's going to be 42.   But for the moment, it's not 42.   We can play tennis.   
   
 Q.   How is the injury, Jo?   Did you feel 100% today?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yeah, today I felt 100%.   You know, I'm feeling good.   I think it's behind me.   Yeah, no problem.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT