THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 2, 2019
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. TSONGA/B. Tomic   
6-2, 6-1, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  That was rapid today.  Are you pleased with the way things went?  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah, of course.  Of course I'm pleased with the way I played.  I expect a match like this (smiling).   
 Q.  Did you?  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah.  I wish it can be that quick (smiling).   
No, no, it's good.  The plan before the match was to enter with the most, I would say -- how do you say that?  Enter in the match with -- I have to form the word.   
The plan before the match was to enter really hard in the match, to give him no chance, you know, to play with me and try to make me enter in this game.   
 Q.  There were times where Tomic looked like he agreed with your assessment in that he thought he had no chance, because sometimes perhaps it's been questioned that his sort of attitude that he was making all the running that he could have done.  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah, but, you know, it's part of his game, also, he's playing like this.  It give him no rhythm.  And sometimes if you are not ready, you can play like him.  And then he start to play, to make you run, play many shots, not be able to make the difference.   
And it happens, because this player is in the top 100 and it's not for nothing.  It's because sometimes he's winning matches.  That's the way he play, and the way I play is different.  I came just to put my game on the court.  That's it.   
 Q.  A BBC commentator suggested his performance disrespected you.  Did you feel that in any way?  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: I mean, I won this match.  The most important for me is to go through this round.  I mean, it's not like -- I mean, it's his game.  He's always played like this.  It's not about play like this just once, you know.   
I remember I played him few times, and once was difficult because he just played like this, dropshot, was playing well.  I didn't find a way to put enough rhythm in the match, and it was complicated for me.   
I mean, you know, it's difficult to speak about how act the other people.  It means that you are always really (indiscernible), you know.  Yeah, that's it.   
 Q.  Wondering if it made it difficult for you when you've got an opponent who is playing like that?  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah, I mean, that's the game.  Today that was the main things, I would say, to be focused no matter what happen, and that's what I did.  And I'm pleased with this.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT