ROLAND GARROS
May 29, 2015
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  J. TSONGA/P. Andujar  7-6, 6-4, 6-3    THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   Q.  How would you assess your level in the first week through the first three matches now?  JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah, I think my level was great.  I did the job I was supposed to do. Now it's going to be harder and harder, of course.  But I know to win a few more matches I will need to be really strong.  And anyway, it's going to be difficult, but that's what I expect.  You know, when you play a tournament like this, you always expect a tough match. So I saved a lot of energy, you know, during these three matches, and for me it's good.   Q.  Speaking of the match with Tomas, your record against him is perhaps not the best, but one of the two times you have beaten him was in France.  Does it make a difference when you play him in your own country?  JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: I don't know.  Anyway, I'm negative against him, and I know he's a good player.  I know I have to play very solid to beat a guy like this, and that's what I will try to do on this day.   THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   Q.  The score might let people think that it was an easy match, but in fact it was a long and difficult one.  JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah, it could have been simpler.  I had quite a few break points, whether in the first or at the beginning of the second set.  He took the break.  I took the break back. It's true that the score could have been tighter, but given the conditions, the match was not all that difficult.  And I'm very happy because Pablo is a very good player, and winning to him in three sets, not digging down too much in my energy, is a good thing.  So I'm happy.   Q.  You're playing Berdych next round.  He gave one set to Benoit Paire.  He's not in the greatest shape, but he's always a difficult player.  JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Oh, I do think he is in the best shape ever.  He is very regular.  He plays very well.  In all the tournaments he's played so far, he reached the quarterfinals at least, so he is one of the best players at the moment. So he's a great player, no problem.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT