ROLAND GARROS
May 24, 2015
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  J. TSONGA/C. Lindell6-1, 6-2, 6-2An interview with:JO-WILFRIED TSONGATHE MODERATOR: Questions in French.Q. Well, this was the perfect first round for you, the perfect start.  Do you think that you are as good as what you did during practice?  Is this something that you transposed into your match today?JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Today I played a good match.  I was really in the match.  I was solid from the very first minute, and therefore I was more relaxed afterwards. Then things went on well after that.  I was aggressive the way I had to be.  I played well.  I played a good match, and therefore, I didn't have to stay too long on the court.  That's it.Q. Well, he's ranked 200.  I know you don't really like that, but would you say that with this you have gained more confidence?JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Difficult to say, and I think that, you know, confidence is something that you must have to go deep in the tournament, a tournament such as this one. So it's not this match that is going to reassure me or not.  I know that I can play a good type of tennis.  The conditions are good for me here in Paris at Roland Garros.  I will continue.  Next round I will try and be serious from the very beginning, and I will play my best tennis, I will try, and at the end, we will see.  We will see if this match will give me more confidence or not.Q. Your coaches say that physically you're okay, and you're saying the same.  Is it something that can give you more confidence that could reassure you?  Because, you know, so far you've only played two-set matches, now this is a three- or five-set match.  Physically you're stronger.  Is that something that's going to give you more confidence?JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Well, I have always very much counted on this mainly during the Grand Slam matches, and my style is rather physical.  It's important for me to feel I'm safe.  I'm reassured.  I can count on my physical condition. Today everything is okay.  I have no pain.  I feel good.  So my objective, of course, is to continue to play well, because I know that physically everything is okay.  I'm on positive dynamics, so my objective is to continue to play well.  That's about it. You know, these two conditions, these two conditions are important for me to play well.Q. Would you say that the draw is good for you to continue to the next round, et cetera?JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Well, I must say that this tournament, I look at it in a humble way.  I will do it the good old way.  I didn't want to look at the following rounds.  I take each match as it comes. I know this is a plain answer to say that, to just focus on the next round, the next match, but it really is the case.  I'm looking at the next match only.  My objective is to win all the points. Of course it's not possible, but I will try and do that.Q. Well, would you say play simple or do it simple?  Is that your rallying sentence?JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: I don't know if it's to say as simple as possible.  The thing is to try and win.  And the best way for me to win is to put a lot of intensity in each point at each moment during the match and to live the present moment.Q. So it's very sober, that is, you're dressed in black, no dancing?JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Is it the boring Jo?Q. No, I said sober.JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yes, it's no longer "The Addams Family."  It's the Tsonga Family.Q. I don't know if you saw what happened with Roger Federer this afternoon.  You know, there was a fan who was on the court to try and take a selfie with him, and then Federer, he said, That's not normal.  I should play safely on the court.  It's not normal for him to get on the court.  Would you react to this?  What has to be done to improve security in general?  It's not the first time it's happened.  What would you say?JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Was that an aggressive move?Q. No, no,  no, it was just to take a photo, nothing special.JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: So that's is it.  End of the story.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT