MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 16, 2015
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. CILIC/J. Tsonga
  6‑3, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French, please.   
   
 Q.   You seemed extremely frustrated at the end of the match.   What was the most frustrating thing in this loss?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   The fact that I had opportunities that I missed, the fact that I wasn't able to choose the right shots when I needed to, and just the fact of losing in itself was extremely frustrating.   
   
 Q.   Do you have any specific regrets, like the set point, for example?   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yes, that set point.   I wasn't good on the court today.   It was difficult for me to play my game.   I was frustrated because I knew I was able to do better, and I didn't do it.   
   
 Q.   Was it only you?   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   No.   It was also because of his game.   His balls bounce very high on his serve, and that gave me a lot of trouble for my returns.   
Also during the rallies, he has a lot of topspin.   At the same time his ball doesn't have any weight.   That also gives me trouble.   I need to hit the ball high, and it's not comfortable.   
   
 Q.   But also you didn't play many matches recently because of your injury.   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   This is what I try to believe so that I can be less frustrated.   I guess things will get better little by little.   
I don't need to be ashamed of losing to Cilic, because he won a Grand Slam, he's a good player.   But he also was injured recently.   He still is an excellent player.   That comforts me a little, to think about that.   I can only think that I'll do better next time.   
I have to think that way if I don't want to be totally discouraged.   
   
 Q.   Tomorrow is your birthday.   You will turn 30 years old.   Some players seem to have a second youth at that age.   What do you think?   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   I would like this to happen to me, too.   I can feel I'm 30 because there are things I can't do anymore.   There are things I couldn't do before and I have to do now, like warming up before starting a match.   I need a lot more time now, especially if I want to play at my best level from the start.   
But I believe 30 years is a good figure.   
   
 Q.   We saw you angry after that loss.   This is pretty rare from you.   Does this mean you were very eager to do well?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Of course.   I really wanted to do well.   I really practiced hard for that and I give everything I have.   When things don't go the way I want them to, I feel very frustrated.   
I put all my heart into it.   But it's good that I react that way because it means that when I lose I can't say I don't care.   It means I'm still enthusiastic about tennis.   
   
 Q.   What do you think of the new racquets of Babolat?   Do you want one, too?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   To tell you the truth, all the players from the Babolat team try racquets all the time.   They do a lot of work on this.   It's good that racquets change and develop.   They develop as the game of the players develops.   
It's good because racquets have improved a lot.   We see new things coming out.   That's a good thing.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT