MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAU
March 28, 2015
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. TSONGA/T. Smyczek
  6‑4, 3‑6, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   What are your thoughts on the way you played today, moving on?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   You know, I didn't expect to play my best tennis today ever, but I'm happy the way, you know, I managed my match. 
You know, I played pretty solid.   I just had a little hole in the second set.   But, I mean, it's normal when you didn't play since couple of months now.
Hope it's going to be better and better, but for first match was already something good for me.

Q.   How tough was it for you expecting to play last night and having to wait till today?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   I mean, for me was not difficult, because yesterday when they delayed the match I was second after the match on stadium. 
So for me it was, you know, just easy.   I knew, you know, I had time to play.   When the rain came, you know, I knew already that I will not play.

Q.   Smyczek was able to force a third set.   What do you feel like he did well and what made him tough to play?   What made it tough to play against him today?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   I think it was a little bit about me in the second set, because I give him, you know, maybe free points. 
But anyway, he's a good fighter.   He's running everywhere.   It's not easy to make points for me, especially when there is a lot of wind like this. 
You cannot play too much ‑‑you cannot play close to the line.   That's why it was difficult today.

Q.   How is your arm feeling?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yeah, my arm is feeling better today.   I'm really happy with that.   I hope it's going to continue.

Q.   (Question regarding playing Monfils.)
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yes, it's always special, you know, to play a good friend.   But anyway, we know both that, you know, on the court there is no friends.   (Smiling.)
But of course, you know, outside, anyway, whatever what's happen on court, you know, we are good friends outside. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT