ROLAND GARROS
May 29, 2019
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. NISHIKORI/J. Tsonga   
4-6, 6-4, 6-4, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  In the third set and the fourth set you broke the game first.  Do you think what was the key of this game?  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: No, I think the key of the game was the level.  I think Kei played a good match.  Since the start he played good tennis.   
That was a match of high level, and I didn't play such a good match since a long time.  So, yeah, for me was a good effort, but Kei was just too good for me, yeah, today.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   
 Q.  Do you come out of this match with mixed feelings?  So you're disappointed that you have lost, but in the same time you're happy with your level of game with respect to the previous weeks or months?  Is that these type of mixed feelings?  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Of course the first feeling is the disappointment of having lost.  I would have liked to continue in this tournament, because as you just said, I have been playing well.  And every week I'm improving, starting to build confidence on the court.   
I was expecting that type of match against a player in the top 5, top 10, to assess my current level.  And I realize that for quite a long time I was at the same level as this type of player, and it's good sign for me, because quite some time ago I was far from that.   
So I'm happy to have regained this level.  For me, it's encouraging.  Of course everyone would like it to go faster, and me first.  Yes, it's nice, but it's also, when you're not a seeded player, you immediately face seeded players, so I have to continue playing, to continue training well like I'm doing, and I'm sure in the coming weeks there will be some things happening.   
 Q.  You had a break at the beginning of the third and at the beginning of the fourth sets.  Do you have regrets with the middle of the sets?  And are there things you reproach yourself, you would have liked to have played differently?  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Not really.  Not many things to reproach to myself.  The main thing I could have been better today is serves.  I had a low percentage of first serves.  This prevented me from controlling the game a bit more.  That's it.  And to have less breaks, because he broke me quite regularly today.  I'm not very accustomed to that, to have so many games where I'm broken.  And so if there is weak points in my game today, it would be my first serve, and then all the rest was quite good.  So as I was saying, it's pleasant to only have minor details to solve, to fight against these type of players.   
 Q.  In your satisfaction, is there also physical satisfaction regarding your current shape, your injuries?  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Clearly.  Up to now I'm managing very well.  I'm feeling well physically.  Today was an important match for me.  Also, physically to realize that I have come back to my level, and that's very important, because playing matches of one hour and a half in the other tournaments is one thing, but being able to fight for two hours and a half, three hours against the best players, it's another thing.   
So here I'm quite satisfied.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT