BNP PARIBAS MASTERS
October 29, 2014
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. TSONGA/J. Melzer
  6‑2, 4‑6, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French. 

Q.   Are you now reassured after that match?   Was it like a new start? 
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Well, the main thing was to win, and I did that.
But during that match there were ups and downs.   I could have played better at certain moments and I could have been more aggressive.
Of course I had a good idea to do that at the right moment in the third set, so I was able to win that match.   I'm still in this tournament now.

Q.   You are going to play the Davis Cup final.   Do you have a special memory of this competition from your childhood, anything that stays in your mind?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yes, I do have memories I think about often, especially the final in Malmo with the French team against Sweden. 
This moment made me choose tennis somehow, because before that I wasn't used to watch tennis on TV.   There was not a lot of tennis on TV at the time, and one evening coming back from football, soccer, I watched that match.   I thought, Wow, tennis is fun.
This is the reason why Davis Cup was always part of the good memories I have.   I think this Davis Cup was always something that pushed me in my career.

Q.   Is it as important to win the Davis Cup as it is for you to win a Grand Slam tournament, or is it totally different because it's a team event?   Would it be a title in your career that you would consider as important as a Grand Slam tournament?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   You're asking me if it's better to win a US Open or Wimbledon?   It's the same.   You can't really compare these things.
Whatever happens it would be a fantastic satisfaction, and it would be really an achievement in my career if I was able to win the Davis Cup.

Q.   Nishikori next round is another level, a lot higher.   Do you feel 100% to be able to fight against him?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   We'll see what happens.   Last year I was not in my best shape; today I feel a lot better. 
I hope I'll be able to make it much more difficult for him.   I don't know what exactly will happen, but I feel good.   I played more than one hour and a half today, and it was a good thing, because I have some references I can rely on for tomorrow.
I hope I'll play a very good match. 

Q.   How do you feel now compared to before your injury?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Now I really feel good.   I feel I am exactly like before.   I'm hitting the ball well.   Of course you can never predict whether you will play a great tournament or not, but what I can say is that I feel in excellent shape. 
I think I'm playing well. 

Q.   Well, we have to talk about this Davis Cup final, and maybe the idea here is to play well here.   How much are you focused?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   This tournament is an important tournament to me.   I believe these points are important for next year. 
In 2015 I want to be a seeded player in the major tournaments, in the French Open and Wimbledon.
As to the Australian Open, I don't believe I have many chances of being a seeded player, so these points will be important for next year. 
So there is a lot I can earn this week. 

Q.   I would like you to talk about Switzerland.   Not about taxes, because I know you're annoyed about this. 
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Oh, no, we can talk about it.   (Smiling.)

Q.   But what I would like to know is what else in Switzerland appeals to you?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Well, to tell you the truth, my girlfriend is Swiss now, so this is really a driving force.   Well, you know, in life there are different steps you have to go through, and I feel good now.
In my life everything is well organized for me to play well.

Q.   She comes from the Gingins?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   No.   She comes from she Chavannes‑de‑bogis. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT