U.S. OPEN
September 1, 2014
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  A. MURRAY/J. Tsonga  7-5, 7-5, 6-4   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   Q.  So many matches with you seem to turn on a shot here or a point there.  Do you have an explanation for this?  Is that how you feel what happened today?  JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: You know, the only explanation on what's happen today is my opponent was better than me, you know, on the court.  I missed of course few things, you know. But at the end we have to play each point, and he was just better than me on these three sets.   Q.  What was the problem with your shirt?  You were messing around with the shirt a lot.  JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: No, I'm just sweating a lot, so my shirt is after two games, it's heavy, you know.  It's like two kilograms, and when it's move like this (side to side) it disturbed me.  That's why I always put the T-shirt in the short.   Q.  In that last game you seemed to struggle to serve the ball.  Were you feeling a little bit light headed?  You feel a little bit disorientated?  JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: No, not at all.  Not at all.  I just struck the ball and the ball went two meters.  I just decide to don't touch the ball.  Maybe it's better.  Because if you touch it, then you miss it.  It's not good.   Q.  How well is Murray playing?  Do you think he has a chance?  He faces Novak in the next round.  You played Novak of course beat him.  JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: You know, to be honest, it's always difficult to compare each match.  It's different.  It's different. I don't know how he will play, you know.  But for sure today he was better than me.   Q.  Do you think he's getting back to his normal level after his surgery?  Was this an indication that he's maybe coming back?  JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: I don't know.  I don't know.  You have to ask him or ask people around him. You know, anyway, today it was a good player I faced on the court, and that's it.   Q.  After your great performance in Toronto, were you having higher expectations coming into here?  JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah, of course.  You always expect to play good tennis.  That's what I did.  It was not enough today. But, yeah, when you play well in a tournament you expect to play also well in the other tournaments.  That's why I will stay focused and try to continue in this way, continue to play good tennis, and maybe I will have some more good results.   Q.  Was the heat and humidity a big factor?  You both seemed to struggle at times with it.  Was it a factor today?  JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: During a tennis match there is always many things can be a factor.  Yeah, it's part of the game, you know.  We have to deal with it, and I think my opponent did better today.   Q.  You know, you said that he was better than you.  Do you think you were playing at your best today?  JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: You know, a tennis match is always --you know, sometimes you play well, your best tennis on two games and not on three games.  It's like this.  You know, tennis, it's never - how do you say that - yeah, it's never a straight line.  It's always like this (indicating fluctuation.) So today it was like this maybe at the wrong moment (smiling).  That's it.   Q.  It was a great match to watch.  What did you feel about the level of the match?  There were some terrific points, some really good tennis.  JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah, I think it was good tennis.  I think it was good tennis, because I saw the statistic.  It's not that bad, so I think it was pretty good tennis.   Q.  The strange point where the umpire -- you seemed to hit your hat and the umpire gave you a fault.  JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: No, because I throw the ball and a big - how do you say that?  A big bug come on my cap, you know, like this, and I cannot see the ball anymore.  I just do like this (shrinking away) to put it away.  And the umpire say, Second ball.  Because he said I did all the -- all the motion.   Q.  He said you hit the ball but you didn't hit the ball, he said.  JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: No, I didn't hit the ball, but he said I did the motion.  When you do the motion, you supposed to lost the point.  But I just -- I did like this and I stop. But, you know, sometimes umpire, they're really good (smiling).  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT