U.S. OPEN
August 25, 2014
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  J. TSONGA/J. Monaco  6-3, 4-6, 7-6, 6-1   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   Q.  Talk about the match.  It was a tough fight.  Feel good about the result?  JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah, I feel good.  It's always good to win.  I played a good matches.  Never easy against Juan.  He's a good player. Today, you know, I just did a good job.  It's good for me, because these first round is always tough to go through.   Q.  Talk about your confidence level coming in.  Obviously winning against Roger is a big confidence boost.  JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah, you know, for me it's really good because it give me, you know, motivation to continue on this way, to continue to work hard. You know, it's a little reward compared to all I did, you know, during my career.  So I just want to continue on this way and continue to work hard like this, be serious, and be just - how you say - consistent to win other matches like this, other tournaments.   Q.  Do you feel right now that you have the physical condition and momentum to go deep into this tournament?  JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: In this tournament I never played really well, never my best tennis, except when I was juniors. So, you know, I'm looking forward to play good tennis here because there is no reason to play bad tennis here. I will just continue on my way and try to play my best tennis.   Q.  What do you think the reason is that you have not played your best tennis here in the past?  JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Different circumstances.   Q.  Is it the crowd, the noise?  Do you like the environment?  JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: No, many times I was not here.  Many times I was injured or I was coming back from injury.  So I think that's why I didn't play well here.   Q.  You're feeling good now?  JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: And now I'm feeling good, really good.  So I hope I will do some good results.   Q.  Have you ever arrived in New York feeling more confident?  JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: I mean, no.  I think never, never.  Because, yeah, like I said before, I was always coming back from injury or I was not in good shape. Yeah, I think this is the best moment for me to play good tennis here at the US Open.   Q.  A number of players, particularly the seeded players, talk about this being one of the hardest days of the year, getting through the first round of a Grand Slam.  Talk about the different kind of pressure there is of not losing a first round as a seeded player.  JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: You mean the extra pressure there is on the first round?   Q.  Yes.  Getting that first win, avoiding an upset.  JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yeah, it depends.  I mean, sometimes you have pressure; sometimes not.  Depends. But, anyway, the first round is always difficult just because you come from another tournament, from different condition, and that's it.  That's it. Every tournament is different.  Every time when you have to change it takes time, you know, to play your best tennis on the surface.  Yeah.   Q.  At one point in your career when you didn't have a coach you said you were feeling great, playing with a lot of freedom.  You're doing well now.  Do you feel you're playing with freedom?  What does that mean to you?  JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: No, I think in the past, you know, it was good to be alone just because it was my way, you know, to understand things about tennis, and that's it. You know, sometimes it's better to think by yourself than through somebody else, and that's what I did. It was pretty good because I played maybe the best tennis of my career, you know, on this time. But I also understood that, you know, I need other things to be at the next level.  I also understood you need somebody around you to help you to achieve this goal because it's a huge mountain and you need help.   Q.  What was the essence you learned when you were by yourself?  What was the core thing that you learned?  JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: By myself?  You know, that the environment around you is important.  And feel good, it's important.  Because, you know, when you see the tennis player, you see him only on the court during a match. But he's living for tennis even outside of tennis, and you need to feel good mentally to give your best on the court.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT