WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 12, 2014
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. YOUZHNY/J. Tsonga
  6‑1, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Just talk about how tough that was today.   I'm guessing it was a hard turnaround playing all week in Canada.   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yeah, it's never easy.   You have to get used to the conditions really quick.  
I was not able to hit yesterday because ‑‑ I would like to but it rain and I didn't have a practice court before 6:00, so I didn't play yesterday.  
But, I mean, that's not the main things.   I just give everything on court, but, you know, I didn't have enough today to compete at the good level.  
So that's it.   
   
 Q.   Was it just about not being able to practice yesterday, or...   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   No, no, no, that's what I say just right before.   I just said that I didn't have, you know, enough energy today to compete and then to be at the right level.  
   
 Q.   So it was energy, as well?   Just tired from Toronto?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yeah.   I'm just a little bit ‑‑I just gave everything last week.   Before the match I believed I was able to play, you know, at the good level, but on the court I realized that it's gonna be impossible.   And it was.   It was because I give my best and it was tough.  
   
 Q.   What were the conditions like with the wind and the cool weather?   Does that have any effect?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Oh, no.   You know, I don't have any excuses except maybe a tough match last week and I just arrived yesterday.   That's it.   
   
 Q.   What would be your plans before the Open now?   You'll just train from now till then, or anything else going on, any matches?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   No, no matches, no matches.   I will take some rest and I will prepare the US Open.   I have now big challenge.   US Open of course will be a big challenge, but the Davis Cup will be important for me also after that.   
So for me it's going to be important to prepare all these events as good as possible.  
   
 Q.   Today was it sort of more something physical bothering you or more the mental effort of last week?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Oh, I think it's both.   It's about nerve, because when you always push your body to give the best, sometimes it tell you that now it's finished (smiling).   
That's what happened today.  
   
 Q.   So you knew early on that you didn't have it?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   No.   Like I said before, before the match I was thinking about to be ready to play.   But after that, after a few games on the court, I said, Wow, it's going to be tough.  
I didn't have enough energy.  
   
 Q.   The American players sometimes marvel at how all of you European players not only speak English but can speak several languages.   Why do you think that is?   How many languages do you speak?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   It's not the case for me (smiling).   I speak French and sometimes something who look like English, but...  
What was your question exactly?   
   
 Q.   Do you think the Europeans are more adaptable to languages because you guys are always smaller countries and everybody intermingles with each other?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   No, but I think English is the main language all over the world.   Maybe not all over the world, but in Europe and here in the United States.  
I mean, it's of course for them easier because they don't have to learn another language and they don't need to, to be honest.  
   
 Q.   Just with all the traveling you guys do, when you were younger, did that make it uncomfortable that you had to also learn another language as well as worry about your tennis, your training, and so forth?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yes, of course, because when you start, you know ‑‑when I start, for example, on the tour I was not speaking really good English.   
The first time I played a final on the tour was at the Australian Open.   I was in front of 15,000 people, and I don't know who was it, but I think it was Jim Courier.   
Yeah, was Jim Courier who asked me a question after the match on how I felt and stuff.   I was like, Uh...   
And so you feel uncomfortable and you think about it before the match.   But then, you know, it's good because it's force you to learn another language.   It's always good for your own culture to speak another language.  
   
 Q.   What was the reaction to you here from other players after what you just did?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Sorry?   
   
 Q.   What reaction did you receive here coming from Toronto from the other players?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   I mean, they congrats me, and that's it.   We are still opponents (Laughter.)  
Q.Based on what you did in Toronto and all the players that you beat and your quality, can you win the US Open?   Do you believe it?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   You know, I always believe in myself, so I will continue to believe in myself.  
   
 Q.   What's your schedule going to consist of to prepare for the US Open.   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   What?   
   
 Q.   What's your schedule going to consist of to prepare for the US Open?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   The schedule will be I will maybe take two days off just to recover from all the tennis I did, and now I will start practice to be ready for the first day of the US Open.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT