ROGERS CUP MEN
August 9, 2014
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. TSONGA/G. Dimitrov
  6‑4, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Jo‑Wilfried Tsonga will be appearing tomorrow on his third ATP Masters 1000 final, having won Paris‑Bercy in 2008 and getting to the final in 2011.   Tomorrow he will be attempting to become the first Frenchman in the Open era to win the Rogers Cup title.  
First question, please?   
   
 Q.   How does it feel to make your first Masters final outside of France?   When was the last time you felt you were playing this well on tour?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Anyway, I'm feeling good (smiling).   I'm feeling good.   You know, I'm waiting for this moment since a couple of years now.  
You know, it's good because I always believe it myself during all these years, and all this week where I lost against those guys and finally I get a little rewards for the moment of this, and, you know, it's good for me.   It will for sure make me stronger, keep my motivation at the highest level and it's great.  
   
 Q.   Do you have a preference of who you face tomorrow?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   I would like to face Roger just because it's always an honor for me to play against him in such a good area.   Yeah, it can be one of the biggest victories for me if I am able to beat him.  
   
 Q.   We heard you talking on the TV interview about the boxing celebration and boxing being part of your training regime.   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   It's not part of my training.   I mean, I'm not a boxer, to be honest, but it's just a little thing to say hello to my physical trainer who is not here this week.   That's it.   So nothing really important.   
But, you know, when I win like this, you know, I show emotion because, you know, it's not only on the court, you know, we work.   It's also outside.   There is people around us to help us, and it's always good to share with them.  
   
 Q.   Do you think you have ever played better over the course of a week than you have this week just now?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   I don't know, to be honest.   For sure I had some good match in the past, because I had some good victory.  
But this week I'm more consistent, and it's good because it make me, you know, beat three guys in the top 10.   I didn't do that since couple of years now, and, I mean, it give me hope for the rest of the year.  
   
 Q.   You're 4 and 11 versus Federer over your career.   What are your memories of those victories you did have over him, particularly back in 2011 when you had a couple against him?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   You know, always when you play against Roger, it's always special.   First, because you play in a big area, in a big stadium, anyway, and every time, you know, the crowd is for him.   So, you know, it's quite a good sensation, you know.   It's quite a good feeling when you win against 10,000 people (smiling).   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT