ROLAND GARROS
May 27, 2019
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. TSONGA/P. Gojowczyk   
7-6, 6-1, 4-6, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   
 Q.  Can you speak about your pleasure of having been back in Roland Garros?  How has your way of approaching the tournament changed over the years in terms of managing the pressure and the event?  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yes, it's true that I'm very happy to be here.  It's been two years I hadn't played here.  It's fantastic and Roland Garros has really changed, so for us players everything has been transformed positively, and it's very great.  I'm very happy to play, as I was saying, because it's been a long time, and I'm very happy to be back.   
I'm approaching Roland Garros always the same, in the same manner.  It's been difficult, because each time I want to do my best, I'm putting myself under pressure, and I need to revitalize things a bit more and to let my tennis play and enjoy each moment.   
 Q.  On the court you said you were frustrated that you hadn't played at the level as before.  Someone told me that it's your frustration which makes you miss some shots.  Who's right?  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: We say the same thing.  We're talking about the same thing.  I want to do so well that I'm frustrating myself a little bit, although what I'm doing is actually not too bad.   
So I'm a bit frustrated sometimes, and sometimes, like today, it makes me come out of the match for a yes or no, and that's what I have to improve.  I'm totally aware of that.   
But it's not easy, because I want to do that.  At the same time, that's what I have to work on.  So on the daily basis, we try to work on that.  But it's not easy.   
 Q.  Everyone remembers your match against Kei with this board that fell.  Do you remember this match?  
JO-WILFRIED TSONGA: Yes, I was really in the match with beautiful intentions.  I had played very well the first two sets, and then there was this stop because of the panel, and he came back with different intentions than what was happening during the first two sets.   
The match was balanced.  He came back, and I did a fantastic fifth set on the center court with a fantastic crowd.  So that's the type of matches you enjoy, because everything is present.  You have a great player in front of you.  You play your best tennis.  You have a crowd cheering you.  And it's the best scenario you can have in Roland Garros.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT