ROGERS CUP MEN
August 8, 2014
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. TSONGA/A. Murray
  7‑6, 4‑6, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   In the third set you were down a break, down 3‑1.   You seemed to sort of regroup and refocus.   How were you able to get control of the match again after that point?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   You know, I had the hand on the match at the beginning, and then he came back.   Then I was a little bit down.   I just stayed focused, tried to be a little bit more aggressive because I was a little bit flat after losing the second set.
He gave me one or two points he didn't give me since the start of the second set, and, you know, then I went back and I won it.

Q.   It's been a different season for you.   To knock off first Novak and then Andy, is this probably some of the best tennis you're playing so far this year?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yeah, for sure, for sure.   But it's going better and better every day.   You know, these last couple of months I practiced a lot because I didn't win many matches, and I did also the choice to practice than play tournaments because I was not really ready after the knee problem I had last year.
So I had good session of practice.   And now, you know, I feel like I'm ready, you know, to play.   I'm sure I'm playing better than before. 
As you can see, you know, during the match I was able to serve maybe 220 all match, and for me it's something great when I'm serving like this.   You know, I'm able to play good tennis.

Q.   Is there anything outside of just more practice that's allowed you to get to that level?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Can you repeat? 

Q.   Is there anything more or different you have done when you've mentioned the serving to consistently stay up there, that you've done differently to get there?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   No, I'm just stronger.   During practice I worked a lot on my legs, and for sure I'm stronger on my legs.   I think it helped me a lot for my serve because I can push a little bit more, so it give me more angle.   That's why I'm more consistent.

Q.   You're in great form.   Can you talk a little bit about your confidence and playing this tournament?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   You know, I don't have a lot of confidence, you know, behind me.   But the only thing I know, you know, I'm giving my best every day during‑‑ you know, since the beginning of my career I'm giving the best.   I try to be consistent in my work, and I'm sure it will give me some rewards. 
This week is kind of rewards for me, you know, to play like this, to beat two guys in the top 10.   It's good, and I hope it will continue.

Q.   During the last couple of months, did you make any changes technically or did you focus mostly on the fitness?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   No, not really.   Not really.   But I think, you know, my technique is not that bad.   But I think I had to improve a lot physically just to be better technically, because sometimes it's, for the serve, for example, it's important to push really hard, you know, and to be able to take the ball higher just to get the angle. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT