ROGERS CUP MEN
August 7, 2014
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. TSONGA/N. Djokovic
  6‑2, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Novak said he kind of felt early on that he knew he didn't have it.   Were you able to get that sense early on, that maybe this wasn't the same guy you played in the past?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Sorry, I didn't understand.   It was too fast for me.  
   
 Q.   Novak said early on he could tell that he didn't have his A game today.   Could you tell that, as well, that maybe he wasn't at 100% just with his ability?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   I don't know.   It was a tennis match like always.   We never have the same feeling.  
But anyway, you know, for me today it was great.   I played a good match.   Soon in the match I was in good condition.   I served pretty well.   I was pretty aggressive, so for me it was a good match.   
Then I can't talk about his game or how he felt, but me, I felt good.  
   
 Q.   We got told that's your third win over a world No. 1 in your career.   What's that do for your confidence going forward towards the US Open?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   It's good more me.   It's good for me because I'm looking for it since couple of months now, and now I get it.   It make me feel good on the way I practice and how I manage, you know, my game.  
So, yeah, it's something positive for me.  
   
 Q.   Have you spoken to Gasquet since you came off court?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   How is he doing?   Is he okay?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   He's not going well, so I think he's gonna do some exam, you know, this afternoon and you will see at this moment, I think.  
   
 Q.   What is the feeling like when you play guys like Djokovic?   Because you have had obviously a really good history against Federer.   Doesn't seem like you get intimidated when you play those world No. 1s or top players.   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   You know, we grow up together on the tour.   We had many good years.   When you play against him you know it's going to be difficult, anyway.   Even if the score today seemed easy, it's never easy against him.  
So, I mean, it's always a good moment for me, because that's why I expect is to play against those guys.   It's always great to play against him anyway.  
   
 Q.   You gave us quite a good celebration after the match.   Can you describe the feelings that you have when you achieve such result like that?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   You know, I'm working hard every day.   You know, it's not every day you get the rewards of what you're doing every day during the year, you know.   You leave your family, practice every day hard, suffer a lot on the court.   And when you win a match like this, you know, you just feel good.  
Me, I will always show my emotion because I'm like this.   
   
 Q.   Roger said at the start of the week that he thought these courts are playing faster than they have in the past.   Do you agree with that?   And if so, do you feel it suits your attacking kind of game?   Can we see you doing some more volley work?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   I don't know, because I didn't play many times here in the past.   The last time I played I played only one round, and it was pretty fast also.   
So I don't know what to say about it, but anyway, it's good for me.  
   
 Q.   I was going to say, do you feel it's fast enough to suit your style of attacking game?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yeah, I think it fit good with my game.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT