WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2014
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. TSONGA/J. Wang
  6/2, 6/2, 7/5

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You must be looking forward to your couple of days off after five days on court. 
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yes, of course.   It's a good thing to have two‑day rest.   No, it's good for me. 
I will be able to deal pretty well with the second week, so it's good. 

Q.   Are you happy with your form over the five days?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yeah, I'm very happy.   I did three good matches.   I'm looking forward.   Of course, I'm looking for this match against Novak. 

Q.   Would you like to talk a little about your match against Novak. 
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Yes, I think it's going to be a new opportunity for me to play against one of the best player in the world.   That's what I'm looking for to make me a better player.   I think I need to play against those players. 
So it's going to be, yeah, a good match for me. 

Q.   It was a nice moment for you at the end when you went over to the lady to give her your towel.   How did you remember what she looked like?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Because I saw the ball come on her.   It was pretty impressive because she took it right to the chest.   I was sorry for her.   I said, Okay, at the end I would give her something. 

Q.   Did you hear someone in the crowd say you should take her out for dinner instead? 
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   It's not a good time to do that (smiling). 

Q.   You mentioned it's a good opportunity for yourself against Novak.   You've spoken in the past about the big four, the dominance they have.   Do you feel there's perhaps a few opportunities for players like yourself outside of that to make runs into the majors now?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   I think the main things for me today is to play against those players, and that's it.   I'm sure it will make me a better tennis player to play against them every week and try to reach the level to get used to play against them because it's another rhythm anyway. 

Q.   How do you assess your chances against him?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   You know, I don't really know how many chances I have.   The only thing I know, I'm in a good form, I'm playing well, and I want to give my best on the court.   I think this is the most important. 

Q.   People will remember the Federer match and the celebration after it.   I don't suppose that's something you might draw on, the manner in which you played against him?   Will that have any bearing against Novak?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Of course for me the goal will be to make my dance at the end anyway. 
But before that there is many steps.   First I will use this whole match to remember in which mind I was and try to do the same. 

Q.   You look bigger and stronger this year.   Have you been working out in the gym and muscling up?
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   Not really. 
No, of course I'm working hard every day and I'm doing a good job with my team.   Of course I'm looking for to be a better player.   If you can see it, it's good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT