AEGON CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 11, 2014
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. TSONGA/D. Goffin
  7‑6, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   How do you view today's match and performance?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   I played a good match.   It was difficult at the beginning just to get used to the grass.   It was my first match so it's never easy, but for a first match I played a good level.  
I'm happy with the tennis I played today.  
   
 Q.   Have you got any specific goals for this week?   What are you looking to get out of the tournament?   What are you looking specifically to get out of the tournament?   Do you have any targets for how far you want to go?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   You know, the target is always to go as far as possible, try to take match after match, but go as far as possible.  
I did well in the past here so I expect to go far again.  
   
 Q.   You seem to have a great relationship with the British public.   Do you know why that is?   Does that go back a few years?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   I don't know, but, you know, during my career I played many good matches here in Queen's, a good match in Wimbledon, and it's maybe about it.   And because I'm not able to stay stable on my legs on grass, you know, sometimes it's impressive because I always fell down.  
But I don't really know why, but anyway, it's good for me and I hope they will enjoy my game.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel you have the quality inside you this year to win a big Grand Slam like Wimbledon?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   You know, I'm working for it.   That's what I expect since I'm playing tennis.  
I will continue to fight until I don't have the passion for my sport.   I don't know if I'm able or not, you know.   Only the future will tell me.   
But anyway, I will give everything I have, you know, to achieve this goal.  
   
 Q.   When you watched it as a kid, who was sort of your hero at Wimbledon?   Who did you look up to and think, I'd like to do that one day?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   What was strange, when I was a kid I never watch a complete match.   I didn't have idol, but tennis was my passion because I loved to play.   And that's it.  
I watch, after that, many matches.   I think all players have something, you know, something good, a game, a comportment.   They're all my idols.  
   
 Q.   The big talking point this week has been about Andy appointing his new coach, Mauresmo, who I'm sure you know well.   What did you make of that appointment?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   You know, I think it's good for them, but, you know, it's not about me.   I will not talk too much.   
I think it's anyway something good because they are both people I like.   For me, it's no problem.  
   
 Q.   What kind of things can she bring?   What sort of coach do you think she will be given that you know her a bit?  
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   I don't know.   I never been with her, so I don't know.   
But to be honest, I don't want to talk about it.   I have nothing to say.  
   
 Q.   Fair enough.   In terms of Wimbledon and the summer and all that is happening now, is there slightly less pressure on you going into that?   Is that a good thing, if that's the case?   Because it's outside of France, it's not the French Open and that sort of thing, are you able to...   
JO‑WILFRIED TSONGA:   You know, for me, it doesn't change anything.   You know, I always played my best tennis in France, always had good results there, so, you know, for me it's not a problem to play in England or in France.  
Sometimes it's different when I play in United States, for example, because there is a jet lag or something and I'm feeling bad (smiling).   
But when I play here in Europe, I can take the train and I'm feeling pretty good.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT