UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 25, 2017
Josh Adams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Stanford - 38, Notre Dame - 20   
THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
JOSH ADAMS: I understand it's not going to be perfect all the time, but I have to make my opportunities count.   
 Q.  Did it feel like there were just defenders in places there weren't earlier in the season, the defense in a better position to stop you?  
JOSH ADAMS: That's just the progression of the season.  Teams are going to game plan.  It won't be easy, like I said.  I got to push through that.  I didn't make enough plays to help lead my team, and that's probably the part that hurts most.   
But, you know, I'm definitely going to learn from it and we're going to move forward.   
 Q.  If you were going to have success with the ball tonight, what would that have looked like?  
JOSH ADAMS: Staying on the field.  We needed to do a better job of staying on the field, so we needed to run the ball consistently.  Got a couple penalties that hurt us.  That makes it hard to run the ball.   
But I just got to take it upon myself to continue to push it, try to lead any way that I can.  That's not getting tackled by one man, and that seemed to happen this game.  A lot of that will be on me.  I'm just going to have to learn from it.   
 Q.  Somebody said they thought Stanford was the best prepared defense they have seen this year.  Do you agree with that?  
JOSH ADAMS: They were a solid defense.  In terms of best prepared, I don't know what they were going through throughout the week, but they definitely brought the energy.  They definitely came with a good game plan.  A lot of credit goes to those guys for doing that.   
If the sides were flipped, that would be us.  They just played a good game and made more plays than we did.  We just have to learn from this.   
 Q.  You couldn't seem to get the big plays, the cash plays, that you've been able to do all season.  What would you attribute that to?  
JOSH ADAMS: I mean, I have to do a better job of putting my team in a position for that stuff to happen.  I got to run more aggressively.  I have to take advantage of the creases that the offensive line has been giving me.  I have to break tackles.  I didn't do enough of that tonight.  Didn't really help put my team in that position.   
A lot of that I will put on myself.  I just need to learn from this and move forward.   
 Q.  How do you do that?  There's still a lot to play for, another game left.  
JOSH ADAMS: We got to get back in the lab and get right back to work.  We have to come with that same mentality that we've been using all year.  We just got to go back to work.  Can't feel sorry for ourselves.   
Like any other game, we got to learn from this one and move forward.  Got to really get back to that grind, finish this thing out strong.  We want to do it right the way, and that's what we're going to do, so...   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT