UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 30, 2017
Josh Adams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I talked to the senior offensive linemen, they all talked about how they feel they believe the offense will be put on them, that they can carry the offense up front, they've prepared themselves for it.  What have you seen from the offensive fronts, and I'm assuming you agree, but what is it you've seen that makes you think they can carry the team?  
JOSH ADAMS: I think it's great as an offensive unit, our offensive line has that type of mentality.  I think every guy on our team has taken it upon himself to say, I'm the guy that I want everyone to lean on, and I'm the guy who's going to get my job done.  And for the offensive line to take that upon themselves is just amazing and it shows how far we've came as an offense, and it shows the connection that we have between players in order to count on each other when times are rough or just in general, just in a game, you can lean on me.  So I think that's amazing, and it only speaks numbers to the type of offense that we want to be.   
 Q.  I know no running back wants to give up carries, but do you feel stronger when you're getting 18 to 20 carries, or is it a better situation that you have three guys -- there will be a hot hand, somebody will get that many carries in a game, but over the course of the season does it help that there's a three-man crew?  
JOSH ADAMS: Whether it's 18 carries or just two carries, I think every guy in that room has taken it upon themselves to be the best player that they can be overall, whether it's running the ball in pass protection or running routes.  We all want to contribute the best that we can to this offense, and we want to help put points on the board, so regardless of how many carries we get, I think each guy in that room has taken it upon themselves to take advantage of the opportunity they have to play and get on the field and to help our offense and to be the best that we can be.  I don't think carries really matter, but I think that no matter how many we get, we are going to try to dominate to the best of our advantage.   
 Q.  Kelly said yesterday how much you guys are ready to play right now; do you agree with that assessment?  How much do you guys just want to get out on the field?  
JOSH ADAMS: I definitely agree.  Obviously we have a few more days until we get there, but every guy is excited, and we're eager, and we're just ready to play.  We're ready to see all the work come forth, all the preparation that we've done, the time that we've sacrificed.  We're ready to see that pay off, and it's just exciting.  Every first game you've got the jitters, but it's just amazing.  It's an amazing feeling.  We're definitely ready to go play.   
 Q.  With the new renovations, the atmosphere, how forward are you looking forward to being a part of that on Saturday?  
JOSH ADAMS: Well, the stadium has been being worked on since I got here my freshman year, so it's going to be exciting to see everything finally finished up, just to get back out there with those fans, just to feel the energy, it's definitely amazing.  First game, like I said, is definitely going to be a sight to see.   
 Q.  What growth have you seen from Brandon, especially during camp?  
JOSH ADAMS: He's definitely grown a lot.  I mean, he's definitely getting a feel for things.  He definitely looks more comfortable, and he's having fun, which is an important aspect of this game that people tend to forget about is just to go out there and have fun and just to play with your teammates.  A lot of adversity comes with being a first-year quarterback, but I don't think he's let any of that get to him.  He's just going out there having fun doing the best that he can.  He knows that we're an offensive unit, it's not just him out there.  He knows that everybody works together and does their job, so I think he has a good grasp on that, and he allows players to contribute in their own areas, and he's going to do the same.  He's going to do his job just like we're going to do our job.  In that area, he's definitely matured, and I think that he's definitely ready to go out there and have some fun on Saturday.   
 Q.  McGlinchey said that he has an aura about him; is that something that is needed in a quarterback?  
JOSH ADAMS: Well, I'm not seeing him physically glow, but no, he definitely (laughter) -- there's definitely a confidence about him.  He definitely has that confidence.  You don't see that in a lot of young quarterbacks, but he definitely carries himself well, respectfully.  He's definitely a different type of guy that we definitely enjoy having as our quarterback, and we can't wait to see what he's going to do on Saturday.  Yeah, that's definitely my guy right there.   
 Q.  Does this feel like -- do you feel like you're starting the season in a new offense, or was it just tweaks that have been made?  How would you summarize that?  
JOSH ADAMS: We have made some adjustments to our playbook, but I think regardless of a new or old offense, I think that the guys definitely have a new attitude approaching this year.  We're going to continue to work hard.  We're going to continue to perfect our craft.  We've made a great adjustment.  Every guy has really bought into playing at a high level and playing to that standard we know we have set for ourselves, so it hasn't been too hard of an adjustment, but every guy has been doing great in that area.  The offense, of course, with Coach Long is a faster paced offense, and I think that with our conditioning and with our workouts and everything, we've done a great job of transitioning to that.   
 Q.  Is there a run-first mindset with this offense now?  
JOSH ADAMS: I wouldn't say it's a run-first mindset, but I would say that we've taken it upon ourselves as a running back unit to really try to take as much of the load as we can, whether it's in the pass game or the run game.  If we're running the ball we're going to try to get positive yards every run.  If we're pass protecting we're going to try to lock our man up and make sure our guy is not the one who gets to the quarterback, helping the offensive line out because they do every single play for us, so we're going to do the best that we can to help those guys out.  That's our mindset as a unit, just doing the best that we can to help our offense succeed, regardless if it's run or pass first.   
 Q.  We were talking to Coach Kelly about Temple's defense, and he talked more about Florida's defense than anything really because of their coordinator going to Temple.  I asked McGlinchey this, and he pretty much said no, but do you look at film of Florida for scheme and film of Temple for personnel?  
JOSH ADAMS: Yeah, I mean, that comes with game planning, stuff like that.  Of course you can't 100 percent predict what somebody is going to do, but you can get different tips, and I think that would be great to watch film of them last year just to see what type of players are on the field, and film of Florida just to see tendencies of the defensive plays.  All those little things can help, but again, you can't 100 percent predict, so we're just going to game plan on our end the best that we can and definitely be ready for Saturday.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT