UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 23, 2013
Sonny Dykes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:   Questions. 

Q.   Did you feel they were running the score out at the end?
COACH DYKES:   No, not at all. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
COACH DYKES:   That's part of football.   Our job is to stop it. 

Q.   What do you have to say to Cal fans? 
COACH DYKES:   I don't have much to say.   It is what it is. 
Wish it was better.   It's on me.   You know, that's all I can say. 

Q.   How did you feel about Kline's performance coming in?
COACH DYKES:   I didn't think it was very good. 

Q.   You've had a lot of injuries.   Talk about the defense one week after the other. 
COACH DYKES:   Yeah, I can find a bunch of excuses. 
My job is to get the team ready to play.   Clearly they weren't ready to play.   Clearly I haven't done a very good job. 
I can say we're starting whatever.   It is what it is.   You guys can look at it.   I don't need to tell you.   You guys can look at the depth chart.   You guys can read it.   That's up to you guys to draw your own conclusions. 

Q.   Do you feel good about the future with underclassmen, especially at skill positions?
COACH DYKES:   Yeah, I think we got a bright future.   There's some things we got to fix. 
But, yeah, we're going to go to work tomorrow and get them fixed.   Actually we're going to go to work tonight and get them fixed. 

Q.   What specifically?
COACH DYKES:   Blocking.   Well, no, actually we're going to learn how to pick up our locker room.   We're.   Going to learn how to go to class.   We're going to fix our graduation rates, graduate.   We are going to appreciate being a Cal student, be supportive of other Cal students. 
We're going to get faster, stronger in the weight room.   We're going to get bigger and improve our diet.   We're going to be more committed to getting sleep, rest, recovery.   We're going to learn how to play on offense and defense. 
Our coaches are allowed to start meeting with our players for two hours a week.   We're going to meet for two hours a week starting next week. 
We're going to recruit better.   We're going to recruit kids that deserve to be at Cal and want to be at Cal.   We're going to learn how to tackle, line up, play hard.   We're going to block.   We're going to learn how to execute on offense. 
I mean, there's a lot of things we're going to get better at.   I got three notebooks full of stuff. 

Q.   Will there be exit interviews with the players on Monday? 
COACH DYKES:   We'll meet with the coaches on Monday, then we'll start doing exit interviews for players. 

Q.   Anyone on your staff you can guarantee is going to be back next season?
COACH DYKES:   I'll take a look at it all.   I can't guarantee I'll be back next season. 

Q.   Anything you felt like you've learned this year personally?
COACH DYKES:   Yeah, a lot of things.   I just think that there's a lot of things I've learned.   I've been coaching football a long time.   I've been lucky to be successful everywhere I've been on a lot of different levels. 
Never seen anything like this.   Haven't been a part of it.   Obviously haven't done a very good job of dealing with it. 
So, you know, it's on me to figure out how to deal with it and go from there. 

Q.   Specifically what was the problem covering Montgomery? 
COACH DYKES:   Yeah, I mean, had a hard time covering him.   When they threw him the ball, he was open.   We had somebody that was supposed to cover him. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
COACH DYKES:   It was a poorly executed kick.   We didn't kick the ball well.   I didn't think we kicked it well all day.   We didn't punt it well. 
You know, those things that used to be a strength of ours have become weaknesses.   It's frustrating. 

Q.   Did you leave yourself vulnerable in the back end?
COACH DYKES:   Yeah, trying to stop the run.   We wanted to make them execute the passing game, complete passes.   To their credit, that's what they did. 

Q.   With their eight in the box on that long wildcat run for a touchdown... 
COACH DYKES:   We had an unblocked linebacker in the hole. 

Q.   In terms of defensive seasons, how do you rebound from a season like this where you've given up somewhere around 580 points?
COACH DYKES:   I don't know. 

Q.   Is that just getting guys back?
COACH DYKES:   We'll see.   We'll try to figure it out. 

Q.   You ran three trick plays and none of them seemed to pan out.   What do you think the problem was in execution? 
COACH DYKES:   Well, you do things like that, you're trying to give yourself a chance when you're a little bit out‑matched. 
It's the same old thing.   You run trick plays, you're a moron for running them.   If you don't run trick plays, you're a moron for not running them.   It's the same thing.   If you're not very good, they're all bad calls.   So it was a bad call. 

Q.   It's always been said that when you're the underdog, you try to take chances that you normally wouldn't. 
COACH DYKES:   Yeah, you do.   As I said, obviously it didn't work.   It's on me.   Bad calls. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT