88TH MLB ALL-STAR GAME
July 11, 2017
Brad Mills
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
American League - 2, National League - 1   
 Q.  Brad, how much trouble did you think you were in there in the bottom of the ninth?  
BRAD MILLS: Well, when he couldn't find the zone for a while, but look at the pitches he kept making when he battled back to get it.  And the thing that -- two things I guess stuck out in the bottom of the ninth:  One was the way he battled back to get it, but how about Sanchez behind the plate blocking those balls and keeping them around and keeping the runners from moving up?  That was outstanding.  And he just he was huge.   
 Q.  For Cano to come through in that situation, tough guy to take deep, and just kind of your thoughts on all that?  
BRAD MILLS: I think my thoughts were pretty excited.  We were thrilled.  Nobody wants, in a game like this, to have it go too long.  The last thing we wanted to do was get pitchers in that shouldn't probably be in the game, and risk an injury or something.   
So that was huge for him to come up, and besides it was a Cubs pitcher (laughter).  That was kind of nice.   
Anyway, it was good to be able to have a guy like that put such a great swing against a great pitcher and be able to do something.  That's good.   
 Q.  Did you know Cruz was going to go up to the plate with a camera and have a picture taken?  What did you think about that?  
BRAD MILLS: As he was in the on-deck circle, our assistant hitting instructor was with him in the cage getting him loose.  That was his first at-bat.  And I went, "oh no."  And then the way it played out, I thought Joe did a good job with it.  He had fun with it at the same time.  I knew it, but I knew it extremely late.   
 Q.  The camera panned over and you seemed to have something on your hat as part of the game.  What's the background there?  Did you did you ever get the culprit?  
BRAD MILLS: Nobody will fess up to it, at the same time I'm sure it came down from Terry back in Cleveland.  I'm sure he had that put in and had somebody do that.  When it happened, that's the only thing I can think of.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT