THE MCGLADREY CLASSIC
November 9, 2013
Brian Gay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Brian, let's talk about what was really a good day, first off, the birdie at 17.   What a bomb.   That was a great putt.
BRIAN GAY:   Yeah, it was nice to see that one go in.   I hadn't made any birdies on the Back 9.   It was nice to make that one.

Q.   What about 18, though?   That was a tough read, wasn't it.   The grain was going in a different direction.   That was a tough read.
BRIAN GAY:   Yeah.   It fooled me a little bit.   It obviously broke more than I played there, but maybe the two best shots I hit all day there to finish up, though.

Q.   Only one bogey, and that was at 14 where you drew a horrible lie on that fairway bunker.
BRIAN GAY:   Yeah, yeah.   You can't miss it right on that hole, especially from that back tee into the wind.   If anything, I need to hit it in the left rough there to even have a shot at the green, but probably the toughest hole on the golf course.

Q.   Talk about tomorrow now.   You've been in this position so many times.   You've been a winner out here.   What's the feeling going into tomorrow?
BRIAN GAY:   Yeah, game feels good, you know.   Just come out and do the same sort of stuff, you know.   Get the ball in play and give myself some opportunities.

Q.   And the putting right now, you've always been a good putter, but I think your putting right now is really, really good.
BRIAN GAY:   Yeah, I putted really well this week, really good the first day.   I gave myself more chances today, which is good.   Yesterday was tough in that wind.   There was a lot of scrambling going on, but hopefully if I give myself enough chances I'll make a few.

Q.   Are you excited, because you're such a calm, cool and collected guy.   Are you excited underneath that exterior?
BRIAN GAY:   Yeah, obviously.   That's what we're out here for, to get in contention and have a shot at winning these things.

Q.   4‑under par on this Saturday, Brian, how pleased are you with your performance today?
BRIAN GAY:   Yeah, it was a good day, good solid day.   Obviously made a few birdies there on the front.   Yesterday was tough in that wind and a lot of scrambling.   I gave myself more opportunities today.

Q.   Known as a great putter on the PGA TOUR, but what is it on these greens that somewhat gives you a green light, at least it looks like, every time you roll it?
BRIAN GAY:   Yeah, you know, I grew up on Bermuda and love that putting surface.   And I putt the best on Bermuda, so I'm comfortable.

Q.   As the game of golf is now becoming a long hitter's paradise, what are weeks like it for you when you come to a place knowing that if you play your game you have a chance?
BRIAN GAY:   Yeah.   You know, it's nice to play courses where everybody has a chance and don't feel like you're too behind the eight ball with the power game.   But in another way it's tough not to put too much pressure on yourself and expect too much when you only have a few of those opportunities.

Q.   Well, you've got your Gator blue on.   Unfortunately I think we're feeling a little blue after their performance as we go back out to 17.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT