MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2013
Brian Gay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Just talk about that round.   
BRIAN GAY:   Pretty good day.   Got off to the start I wanted.   Made a nice solid par on 1 and birdied 2, a great shot on 6.   Just hit a bad tee ball on 17, but putted good most of the day.   Only two I misread were on 16 and 17.   But you hate to give any back.   I felt like it was a decent day.   
   
 Q.   Do you think the course is receptive to low scores out there today?  
BRIAN GAY:   Yeah, if it stays cloudy like this.   The wind is blowing some, but I don't think it'll dry out too much with it being overcast.   The greens, they're close to where they could get really, really crunchy, but right now they're still, I think, playable to hold some shots.   
   
 Q.   Any part of your game that you're looking to improve on tomorrow?   
BRIAN GAY:   Just being able to drive it straight.   I got in a couple bad spots off the tee where I made a couple bogeys on 7 and 17.   I hit two tee balls in the left trees, and that hurt me.   But just get the ball in play, hit my irons pretty good, and I putted well.   
   
 Q.   How important is it, you've been working with Kip Henley for a while, to have a caddie that you're familiar with and somebody that you are comfortable with?   
BRIAN GAY:   Yeah, it's always great to have‑‑ we've been like six and a half years now, almost seven years together, so we know each other pretty well.   
   
 Q.   Going to let him and his brother do any racing out there?   
BRIAN GAY:   They might get shot if they pull that here.   I don't think they'll be racing down 6.   
   
 Q.   How was it out there this time compared to the last time you were there?  
BRIAN GAY:   You know, it was actually a pretty similar day.   I played early last time, and it was cloudy, it was a little bit cooler then, but pretty similar day actually, overcast and got a bit breezy.   
But I think the more‑‑ every time you go around here you learn more and more and more.   Every time I come here I realize guys that have played here 100, 150 rounds‑‑ I mean, it's so‑‑ a huge advantage being around here so many times.   Every time I get around it, the more I learn about it.   
   
 Q.   Did you seem more comfortable this time compared to the first time you played here?   
BRIAN GAY:   Well, a little more comfortable with the golf course.   I somewhat feel like I know what I'm doing out there, but there's so many different things going on out there.   It's endless, I mean, the amount of time you could spend on and around these greens and where to put the ball and where the pin is.   So I mean, just‑‑ you can't make up for having a bunch of experience on this course.   
   
 Q.   How do you feel overall about the round?   Looked like you were doing pretty well.   Kind of rough getting there, but overall what's your take on‑‑  
BRIAN GAY:   It wasn't the finish I wanted.   I three‑putted 16 and hit a good drive on 17.   Yeah, I just need to drive the ball straight and I'll be all right.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT