THE BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 11, 2009
Brian Gay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. A fantastic round of 65 there, a really good move in the right direction on this Saturday, are you excited now about your prospects?   
 BRIAN GAY: Yeah, I wanted to come out today and try to make some birdies and move up the board and I got hot there on the front nine.  
  
  Q. Out in 31, so you were really getting it going, and another birdie on the 10th, but disappointing perhaps on 13, the par 5?  
 BRIAN GAY: Yeah, I hit it in the left rough and probably should have laid up and tried to hit a 3-wood up by the green and made a bogey there. I bounced back with a birdie on the next hole, the back nine is tougher than the front, and the back holes are into the wind. 16 and 18 are pretty tough.  
  
  Q. Two great wins in the States, when you've been so hot with the putter, was the putter really hot today for stretches?  
 BRIAN GAY: Yeah, a little bit early. I hit the ball really good yesterday and didn't get much out of it. I didn't make too many. I was holing them good but we just were not seeing the line that is well. It's been a great year and happy to be over here.  
  
  Q. They say Loch Lomond is a very American-style course, are you feeling at home?  
 BRIAN GAY: Yeah, it's a lot like playing on our tour. It's an American-style course but I wanted to come over and get adjusted before turn bury.  
  
  Q. Turnberry is a huge focus for you, but we do have the final round tomorrow, tell us about how you'll be getting into the right mind-set getting into the final round.   
 BRIAN GAY: I'll be a ways back and depending on what Retief does and some of the other leaders. I wanted to come out today and give myself a chance and kind of move up the board and see and go out tomorrow and try to make more birdies.  
  
  Q. Is this a course that suits your eye?   
 BRIAN GAY: I think the fairways are generous, so it doesn't completely play into my hands. It's not real tight which favours me. I'm a straight hitter but not far. But I like it. It's beautiful.   
  
  Q. Perhaps another 65 could do it tomorrow?   
 BRIAN GAY: Yeah, it would be nice, come out tomorrow and see what happens.   
  
  Q. First trip to Scotland and it obviously suits you.   
 BRIAN GAY: Everybody keeps telling me it's going to rain every day but the sun is shining and it's great. Another good day today. I played really solid yesterday and didn't get too much out of it but made some birdies today though.  
  
  Q. We've been discussing on Radio Scotland that this course is similar to an American-style course, is that something you would go along with?  
 BRIAN GAY: Yeah, very similar. It's definitely not a links, American-style, Tom Weiskopf did it. So it's not too different for me.  
  
  Q. What was your thinking in your decision to come and play here?  
 BRIAN GAY: I wanted to come over early, and I heard what a beautiful place this is and I wanted to come over and get adjusted before Turnberry.  
  
  Q. And you've had some good form coming into this, as well.   
 BRIAN GAY: Yeah, it's been a great year and won twice. It's been really good.   
  
  Q. What's the plan, are you thinking about next week, or are you thinking that you can win at Loch Lomond?  
 BRIAN GAY: I want to go out and try to move up the board today and get in a better position for tomorrow depending what the leaders do. I came over for a warmup, but it's nice to get in position and we'll worry about tomorrow and then go to Turnberry.  
  
  Q. Those leaders at the moment could get quite a bit better couldn't they?   
 BRIAN GAY: Yeah, they could. The wind has picked up a little bit but they will make some birdies.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT