ST. JUDE CLASSIC PRESENTED BY FEDEX
June 13, 2009
Brian Gay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOEL SCHUCHMANN: Fifty-fourth hole leader at the St. Jude Classic, Brian Gay. Thank you for joining us here after a round of 66 today. Three rounds in the 60s. You've got a lead heading into the final round. Three great days for you so far.
 BRIAN GAY: Yeah, another good round. Got off to a quick start again. Played pretty solid all day. Missed a couple good opportunities early and one on 15 and probably a mistake -- bad decision on 18, but made a good five. So, pretty pleased with it.
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN: Maybe a couple comments about your putting, 73 putts through three rounds including 24 today and 23 yesterday. Regardless of the course was playing a little bit longer because of the weather, you're still rolling it well.
 BRIAN GAY: Yeah, I had it on a fringe a couple times. Kind of lowers that putting number. Yeah, the course definitely played longer today, some of the par 4s like 7, 10, 13, played much longer. Seemed like we played a lot -- seemed like the wind was playing -- we played a lot of holes into the wind today. Kind of moving around the wrong way for us. 
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN: We'll take some questions.

 Q. Brian, when you talk about your bad mistake on 18, just describe what it was and how it happened.
 BRIAN GAY: 3-wood off the tee and pushed it. It ran in the first fairway bunker on the right, and I was pretty close to the lip and didn't have a great lie. Little bit of sand pushed up behind of behind the ball. I was trying to go to the front right bunker, kind of hit a high cut and hit behind it, trying to get it up in the air, caught the sand behind it. You know, probably should have wedged it out and maybe I could have made a four but pretty happy with a 5 right now.

 Q. You were grouped with Molder. Watching him and Allenby, that kind keep the pressure on you to keep playing and trying to stay ahead?
 BRIAN GAY: I try not to pay too much attention to everybody else. Our whole group was playing well. Bryce got off the a slow start but played really well after that. The whole group was hitting it pretty well. So I was making a comment to my caddy I couldn't get the tee box from like -- seemed like nine holes. I couldn't get the tee box. Everybody played well.

 Q. If you could maybe compare this again maybe to Hilton Head as far as how you're playing during the first three days.
 BRIAN GAY: Yeah. Little similar. I'd still say I was definitely sharper at Hilton Head. Putting similar, putting good as obviously I did there. Probably not hitting my driver as well as I did at Hilton Head, as straight. The irons have been good, but I hit it so good there, gosh, I hardly missed a drive or iron there all week. Pretty solid.

 Q. Is The Open in your mind at all? 
 BRIAN GAY: Not until you mentioned it. No, not really, not when I'm out there I don't think about it. I mean, it's a Major. I would love to play in it but, you know, I expected to be off next week. So I've got enough work to do here to not have to worry about that. So, nothing I need to think about.

 Q. A lot of the players have mentioned that you with a lead, a pretty good front runner with two wins, what has lead to that reputation?
 BRIAN GAY: Well, both times I've won, I had the lead on Sunday and obviously was able to get off to a quick start at Harbor Town and increase it and win by a big margin. You know, I don't know. Hopefully I'll continue to do that. I'm two for two, so hopefully I'll go out and have a good day tomorrow.
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN: You finished your round yesterday I believe in the morning. How nice was it to not have to worry about coming back and cleaning up two, three, four holes like a lot of players had to do that today?
 BRIAN GAY: Yeah, it was nice. Went back and took a nap and relaxed and laid there and watched the TV, didn't have to worry about the storms and just got some rest.
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN: Just quickly touch on your round. Five birdies and just the one bogey on 18 that we already talked about. Maybe just birdies starting on No. 2.
 BRIAN GAY: No. 2, driver and lob wedge just bounced into the back fringe. Made a 15-footer.
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN: The par 5, No. 3.
 BRIAN GAY: Par 5, I laid it up to -- what did I have? 80 yards. I can't remember. Call it 80 yards. Pitched a little short, kind of hit into the grain and stopped. It was downwind. Didn't hit it hard enough. Made a 20-footer there.
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN: No. 6, par 4.
 BRIAN GAY: No. 6, driver, pitching wedge to about 6 feet.
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN: No. 12, par 4.
 BRIAN GAY: 12, driver and 9-iron to about 15, 16 feet left of the hole.
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN: Then last birdie of the day on 16.
 BRIAN GAY: 16, driver and 3-wood in the left greenside bunker, the one closest to the pin on the back left back there and pitched it out a little short, made about a 6, 7-footer there.
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN: Okay. Anymore questions? Okay. Brian Gay, best of luck tomorrow.
 BRIAN GAY: Thanks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT