ST. JUDE CLASSIC PRESENTED BY FEDEX
June 12, 2009
Brian Gay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOEL SCHUCHMANN: Brian Gay, thanks for joining us. Currently the 36-hole leader with a 10-under par total, career best 130. Great first couple days for you. Maybe a couple opening comments about your first two days.
 BRIAN GAY: Yeah, thanks. Playing well. Made a bunch of birdies, few more mistakes today, especially there at the end, but pretty happy with 10-under.
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN: Great. Questions?

 Q. How much did it help maybe to get the early start this morning? It sounds like conditions were pretty nice to get going out there this morning, no wind and things like that. Did that maybe help you kind of pick up where you left off?
 BRIAN GAY: Yeah. Hit it in close on 1, like maybe 4 feet. Like you said, it was calm, the greens were holding, so there were some birdies to be had.

 Q. Brian, how much did it help playing with Woody who was I guess having a good day himself?
 BRIAN GAY: Yeah. Woody played good yesterday and today. We had a good group. My caddy and his caddy are brothers, so we had a good time out there.

 Q. You mentioned hitting into 4 -- to 4 feet on 16. Any particular club that was just working for you today? It sounds like were you hitting it, at least your irons, in pretty good.
 BRIAN GAY: Yeah. I hit it really well the first eight holes and a couple misses on 9 and 10. Then I hit it really good again until 17 -- 17 I hit it in the fairway but just behind the tree and overhooked it. It got in the back lip of the bunker with no shot at all. But I hit it good again today.

 Q. Brian, in terms of you having so much success in the past few years, have you -- do you appreciate it more, the wins, the good rounds, the good tournaments?
 BRIAN GAY: It's nice. I've been out here a long time and worked at it a long time, and to finally get a win last year and back it up with another one this year is rewarding, and you realize how such a fine line there is between winning and maybe missing a cut or not playing well. 
 There's not a big difference between that with the guys out here. Everyone is so good. So, definitely appreciate being able to pull through and do that.

 Q. What's your approach now? You kind of posted your number. Do you just wait and see where that stands up with the guys that are still hitting the course later today and who are finishing up right now?
 BRIAN GAY: Yeah. If the wind doesn't blow, there will be some low scores. So I don't -- I haven't looked at the leaderboard. I don't know. I'm sure there's a lot of guys that were playing this afternoon that were 4-under yesterday, probably. They'll be some low scores this afternoons, I would imagine. I'll come out tomorrow and do the same stuff. I'm not -- hopefully get off to another good start tomorrow.

 Q. Brian, again, who was really helpful maybe in your career as you were kind of going through and trying to make your way on the Tour, anyone really instrumental?
 BRIAN GAY: Well, I've had a lot of people help me through the years. Lots of different instructors. I think the biggest turn was three years ago when I made a change and some stuff in my golf swing. And since then I've stuck to the same stuff and I've just played better, more consistent, just kept building on that.

 Q. Who was --
BRIAN GAY: Lyn Blake. 
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN: Anything else? Go through your card, go through your birdies and bogies for me.
 BRIAN GAY: Okay. No. 1, driver and a 9-iron to 4 feet.
 No. 3, par 5, laid up. I had 75 yards, 73 yards or so. Hit it to about 8, 9 feet.
 No. 6, driver and 8-iron, tap-in like a foot.
 8, I hit a 7-iron just behind the pin, 16 feet.
 9, I drove it down the right side in the first cut, kind of fooled by the wind a little bit, pulled it, hit the bank, rolled back in the hazard. Chipped it up 4, 5 feet and made the putt for bogey.
 12, hit a 3-wood and a pitching wedge to about 12 feet. 
 15, 3-wood and a pitching wedge to about 5 feet.
 17, I drove it in the left side of the fairway, but I was behind that tree and overhooked a 5-iron. It went up against the back lip in the bunker. Couldn't hardly stand up to hit it. Left it in the bunker, hit it out like 5 feet, made a putt for bogey.

18 I drove it just in the right rough, hit a 6-iron in the right bunker, and again I hit it in the wrong spot on a down slope with no green and what green I had was downhill, down grain. Hit a great bunker shot, probably 14 feet. I couldn't have hit it better and maybe as good a putt as I've hit in two days, but didn't go in, just on the left edge, stayed straight.
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN: Yes?

 Q. Do you prefer being in contention and close to the lead or chasing the leader or being the person who has to hold off the pack?
 BRIAN GAY: I guess I want to be ahead. I did pretty good being ahead last time, so I was telling myself on the back-9 out there to -- I was really trying to push and try to make as many birdies as I could but couple -- probably pulled the wrong club on a couple holes coming in that kind of lead to a couple of those mistakes.
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN: Okay, Brian Gay. Thank you. Good luck the rest of the week.
 BRIAN GAY: Thanks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT