ST. JUDE CLASSIC PRESENTED BY FEDEX
June 11, 2009
Brian Gay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   PHIL STAMBAUGH: Okay. Brian, a very nice 6-under par 64, breezy conditions in the afternoon. And you're the first round leader. General thoughts about your round and go through your birdies and your loan bogey.
 BRIAN GAY: Yes. Solid start. Just one bogey on 17. Made one other great save. Other than that, it was a pretty solid. Made a few putts, hit a few close ones. A pretty good day.
 Birdies and bogies. Start on the back. I hit a 7-iron on 11, 22 feet. 13, driver and 6-iron about 7 feet. 16, I hit a driver and 3-wood in the left greenside bunker. Put it out to about 4 feet.
 17, I hit it just in the first cut on the right. Sliced it around the tree right of the green, chipped it 15 feet short and missed it.
 No. 2, hit a driver and pitching wedge about 7 feet. No. 3, the par-5, I laid up to about 73 yards and hit it about 8, 9 feet.
 No. 6, hit a driver and a 9-iron about 4 feet. And No. 8, I hit a 7-iron just past the hole on the fringe, probably 15 feet.
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: Did you tell the local TVs you had a good save in there to keep the round going somewhere along the way?
 BRIAN GAY: Made the turn on 1. I kind of pulled it and hit the pine tree over the creek. Hit a good second shot. Hot 3-iron flyer. The pin was front left. I chipped it all the way down the green there about 4 feet and made a good par.
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: The thing that jumps out on your sheet, we noticed you had 26 putts. Must have been rolling it pretty good.
 BRIAN GAY: Yeah, putted well today. It was overall pretty good. Just missed that one tee ball there on 1 and hit my irons pretty well.

 Q. Coming into this event, what was your thought process? And the reason for the question, you were just outside the invites for the Masters, right now sitting outside for the Open. A win here gets in you next week. Is that the thought coming in here and try and just bust your way into it?
 BRIAN GAY: Yeah. Didn't even know that -- I knew you had to win twice between Opens. Obviously I just missed one at Harbour Town. The current year was only Top-10 money. I was 12th or 13th at the cutoff. 5th, 4th in the world rankings, so I missed -- for some reason, I didn't even think about obviously winning here would be two wins between -- somebody mentioned it I think yesterday, but didn't really think about it. Just figured I would have next week off.
 Just trying to build on -- had last week off and shot 64 the last day at Colonial and struggled all week. Put a low round of the day there on Sunday. Really want to build off that.

 Q. What do you have planned for next week if you're off as you originally planned?
 BRIAN GAY: Didn't have any plans. I thought I would qualify. Shot 1-under Monday. Didn't play very good so didn't really have any plans.

 Q. Brian, this is I think your 11th straight tournament here in Memphis, and you were in contention two years ago. Just talk about how this course sets up for you.
 BRIAN GAY: I've always liked it. I love the zoysia fairways. I was in contention, maybe '04 it was the last year they had the bent grass greens, I think. I think Toms won. I was in the last group with him. Finished like 5th. Seemed to get even harder when they put the bermuda in. They're a little softer this year. 
 Just always liked the course, for whatever reason. It's not like it's really tight or anything to fit my game that much, but always liked playing here.

 Q. Obviously lot of guys are kind of bunched together right behind you at the moment. Do you like -- if you end up being on top, you like this start going into the weekend?
 BRIAN GAY: Yeah. Obviously 6-under is great almost anytime you start at 6-under, so I'm pleased. Been a little bit of a struggle lately. My ball striking hasn't been there really since I won. I've had some minor injuries. I haven't played that much. Just looking to get something going.

 Q. Can you describe the nature of those injuries that you've been struggling with?
 BRIAN GAY: I had a rib out and my back was spasming. My neck kind of locked up right before -- the last night at the Byron before I went over to Fort Worth, and had that treated all week at Colonial and some last week at home.
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: Okay.

 Q. Again, it's much better now in terms of your health?
 BRIAN GAY: The back is fine. My neck is still tight and sore. I don't know if there's something else going on in there or not. I don't think it's bothering me as far as swinging the club, but just kind of a pain in the neck (laughter).
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: Anything else? Brian, continued good luck.
 BRIAN GAY: Thanks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT