EDS BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
April 26, 2008
Brian Gay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Brian, nice playing, 2-under, 3-under, you're right there.   
 BRIAN GAY: Yeah, solid day, no bogeys, kept it in play pretty good at the end of the day. I had some good chances I missed, but I also had some good saves.  
  
  Q. That was a great shot in at 18. Hey, this is kind of your David versus Goliath out here on this long golf course.   
 BRIAN GAY: Well, I finally told my caddie, I finally birdied 15 and made a 4 (laughter).   
  
  Q. Yeah, that hole is playing about 41/2 stroke average, so yeah, that was a birdie there. What else has been working for you?  
 BRIAN GAY: Yeah, just driving the ball in the fairway. I missed a few today but driving it really good.  
  
  Q. What do you think of this new redesign?  
 BRIAN GAY: I think it's better. It's an improvement. The golf course is in great shape. It's a little bit longer but it's a little more penal around the greens.   
  
  Q. Well, that works good for you.   
 BRIAN GAY: Yeah, no doubt.   
  
  Q. How was it out there?  
 BRIAN GAY: It was good. I drove the ball nicely at the end of the day and didn't make many mistakes, no bogeys, a pretty solid round.  
  
  Q. The redesign of the course, did you find it a bit more challenging today than in years past?  
 BRIAN GAY: Yeah, it's definitely -- the greens are tougher, a little more slope in them, but the course is in great shape. It's a little bit longer, which is tougher for me, but I've been driving it well, keeping it in play, so that's all right.  
  
  Q. What do you think of the changes that have taken place?  
 BRIAN GAY: Yeah, I think they're great. It's definitely more -- it's tougher around the greens, there's more undulation in the greens, and it's more of a premium on second shot and around the greens.  
  
  Q. What's it going to take to finish this tomorrow?   
 BRIAN GAY: Well, it would have to be a low one tomorrow. We're supposed to have some bad weather tonight, so you never know. Guys have a lot of holes left out there today.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 BRIAN GAY: Not really. You've still got to go out and play the golf course every week. That's all you can do is go out and beat the golf course and try and do the best you can.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT