MAYAKOBA GOLF CLASSIC AT RIVIERA MAYA - CANCUN
February 23, 2008
Brian Gay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   NELSON SILVERIO:  Brian Gay, thanks for joining us.  Just some thoughts on Sunday, what's mind-set? 
 BRIAN GAY:  Keep doing what I did today.  It would be nice right now to just start the fourth round. 
 NELSON SILVERIO:  How were conditions compared from yesterday and today? 
 BRIAN GAY:  A little less hot out there and not near the wind we had yesterday, so it was more the birdie opportunities. 

 Q.  Birdies on six of the last nine, were you just feeling it?  What was happening? 
 BRIAN GAY:  You know, everything was good.  I got off to a good start birdieing the first three holes getting relaxed, and just drove it good all day and just had a lot of chances.  I finally got some to go in at the finish there. 

 Q.  Did you realize your run started when John made his first bogey that the lead was shifting there?  The head-to-head battle, does that bring out the best in you? 
 BRIAN GAY:  I didn't really look -- of course I knew what John was doing.  I didn't see what everybody else was doing.  I didn't even see a leaderboard until maybe the 18th tee.  I didn't really look. 
 Yeah, I guess I kind of thrive on that a little bit there at the end where I hit some really good iron shots close and keep going and keep trying to make birdies. 

 Q.  How does the golf course compare to not only other courses on TOUR, but how it has played the first two days? 
 BRIAN GAY:  It's a very good golf course.  I think all of the players really like it.  The condition is second to none.  It's just perfect out there. 

 Q.  How would you compare conditions today, were they harder or easier compared to the first two days? 
 BRIAN GAY:  Pretty normal.  It was pretty much the same pin positions they used last year, but without the heavy winds, they were more accessible. 

 Q.  Do you like México? 
 BRIAN GAY:  Love it.  (Laughter). 

 Q.  When you get out there and you feel that the wind is not gusting like it was, do you know that if you don't go low, somebody else will? 
 BRIAN GAY:  Yeah, the guys are so good out here, the scoring opportunities are out there.  And you know guys are going to score low, and if you don't make birdies, you are going to fall back.  

 Q.  You've been very consistent for three days; what's your strategy going into tomorrow? 
 BRIAN GAY:  Same thing.  You know, I've just got to get the ball in play off the tee.  And I don't know if the wind is going to blow tomorrow or not.  Obviously if it's windy, you're going to have to play to the enter of the green more.  If there's no wind, guys will be shooting low and you'll still have to make some birdies. 

 Q.  You have a comfortable lead right now, five shots, does that make you more comfortable or do you feel like you have to protect that lead tomorrow? 
 BRIAN GAY:  I've never had a five-shot lead, so I don't know.  I'll try to play my game as best I can, you know, and just play smart. 

 Q.  Was there any one particular thing that was working for you during the birdie streak?  Was it irons or did you think long putts? 
 BRIAN GAY:  I had an easy birdie on 13, the par 5 and made a nice putt on 14.  The chip shot on 15 really kept me going.  I hit the wrong club on the par 3 and came up short down into the left.  Hit a great chip to will three feet and saved par.  That kind of kept me going. 
 Then hit it close on the last two holes, six feet and four feet. 

 Q.  Pretty good round when your par saves are on par 3s. 
 BRIAN GAY:  Yeah, I only missed a couple greens all day, and obviously it's a tough hole, tough par 3 there on the water.  Little bit of a mistake with the wrong club there, but it was nice to save par. 

 Q.  In terms of difficulty compared to courses that you've played in the States, where would El Camaleón rank? 
 BRIAN GAY:  Depends on the weather.  With no wind, it's fair.  It's a little bit on the easy side just because there's no long rough.  They give you generous landing areas off the tee, but you must hit those or you'll be in the hazards or the bushes.  But obviously with the wind blowing, it makes those targets a lot smaller. 
 NELSON SILVERIO:  Brian, thanks.  Good luck tomorrow. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT