STANFORD ST. JUDE CHAMPIONSHIP
June 9, 2007
Brian Gay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Brian Gay, thanks for joining us here after an even par round of 70.   
 Right now three shots behind leader Adam Scott heading into tomorrow's final round here at the Stanford St. Jude Championship.  Maybe some opening comments about the day.   
 BRIAN GAY:  Yeah.  Even par, nothing great but definitely not to bad, either.  Scores aren't real low out there so playing in the last group.  Shooting even didn't hurt myself too much but little bit of hiccups there early on the back 9 and recovered nicely, made some solid pars coming in.  I was unable to make any birdies, hit the ball nice coming in.   
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Looks like you got not only the speed of greens but made some nice puts this week.   
 BRIAN GAY:  Yeah, I have.  The greens are a little bit faster than normal here.  Especially down grain they're super fast and into the grain it's quite a bit of difference.  They're not real easy to putt but I've done well with it.   
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  We'll take some questions.   
  
  Q.  The stumble there at 12 and 13, you got a couple bogies but were you able to work your way out of trouble and avoid getting even worse scores there.  Do you think that helped you stay in it?   
 BRIAN GAY:  Yeah.  I made a great 5 on 12 where I had to drop.  I couldn't reach the green so it was like a two-shot pen.  I still had to lay up.  Hit a great wedge in there three feet.  Really felt like a par instead of a bogey there making that 5.   
 And the next hole I hit it just short and left where I was short-sided and really couldn't get my chip close.  Just missed it in the wrong spot there.  But the save on 14 was big because after two bogies and that's obviously a really tough hole there and made a great save there and that kind of turned it around for me.   
  
  Q.  Adam is up by three shots.  Can you kind of state what you're going to have to do in the final round to catch him because he seems like he's playing at the top of his game?   
 BRIAN GAY:  Yeah, he's playing good.  I'll have to shoot three shots lower than him tomorrow.  I have to drive the ball in play and go from there to get as many birdie opportunities as possible.  I didn't drive it great middle part of the round today.   
 Got to get in a position off the tee.   
  
  Q.  Up until 12, 13, you were playing pretty well.  You grabbed the lead for a little bit.  Could you sense -- were you at the top of your game and had some good momentum going?   
 BRIAN GAY:  I felt good most of the day.  I said somewhat earlier when I had the lead, I felt fine.  I didn't maybe even -- maybe even felt better but just made a couple bad swings.  I don't think it was anything to do with being in the lead.   
  
  Q.  Then it was almost turning point for both you and Adam because Adam had kind of been kind of even up until 12, 13 and you had been high and then you went down a little bit and he went back up.   
 Could you sense everything kind of changing right then and there?   
 BRIAN GAY:  It flopped pretty quick there with my bogies and he hit just a wedge into 13 there, probably hit it close and made birdie.  Then he knocked it on 16 in two for -- almost made eagle.  I didn't get up and down out of the bunker but, you know, I hung in there.   
 The last few holes are pretty tough, the last two especially.  I hit some good shots coming in.  I was proud of that.   
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Playing in twos tomorrow.  You'll be in the second to last group.  Adam will be paired with David Toms who is also 6-under.  What's your preference as far as scoreboard watching or seeing what the other players are doing?   
 BRIAN GAY:  I usually don't even watch the scoreboard.  I didn't really look today, they were way behind for some reason.  When I did look they were like four holes behind.   
 It's probably a little bit easier being in the next to last group, you know.  You don't really want to pay attention to what the guys you're playing with are doing anyway, but maybe try to sneak up on them, on the group ahead.   
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Anything else?  Okay.  Brian Gay, thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT