STANFORD ST. JUDE CHAMPIONSHIP
June 8, 2007
Brian Gay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   COLIN MURRAY:  Alright, Brian, thanks for joining us.  Fill us in on your round today, 5-under for the tournament.   
 You are playing 18 right now?   
 BRIAN GAY:  I'm on the last green.  Unfortunately I didn't get to finish.  Won't get to hit any balls, just have to putt.   
  
  Q.  If you can just give us a couple brief comments on your round so far and we'll open it up to questions.   
 BRIAN GAY:  So far it's a nice round.  I got off to not a great start, bogeyed the 1st and made a nice putt on 6, probably 30, 35 feet.  Kind of turned it around and I hit it close three, four times the next five holes after that and made some nice birdies.   
 Just lipped out on 16 and on 18 green.   
 Conditional page break: 2   
COLIN MURRAY:  Got your birdies and bogies right here.  Do you mind going over those for me?   
 BRIAN GAY:  No. 1 I hit a drive in the fairway, 5-iron long and left, pretty much dead.  Had no chance to get it close, ran just off the green on the fringe and chipped it up, tap-in bogey.   
 6, I hit a driver and pitching wedge, 35 feet, made the putt.   
 No. 8, I hit a 6-iron about ten feet, birdie.   
 9, I hit 3-wood and an 8-iron about five feet.   
 10, I hit a 3-wood and a 9-iron about two feet.   
 12, I drove it in the left rough, caught a flier.  Went over the green in the creek, dropped and got up and down for a bogey.  Chipped it about three, four feet there.  And 15, I hit it in the left rough and cut an 8-iron around the tree to about ten feet there, made the putt.   
 COLIN MURRAY:  Go ahead and open it up to questions.  Got the wireless mike again.   
  
  Q.  How were conditions compared to yesterday?  It seemed like the winds may have died down a little bit but -- apparently not, then.   
 You like being able to post what you did today considering those conditions, then?   
 BRIAN GAY:  Yeah.  I don't know what's going to happen after this storm but the forecast last night when I looked was actually for it to die down later today, which was unfortunate for us playing early.  It's been blowing pretty steady all day.  It actually seemed to be blowing harder the last few holes.   
  
  Q.  Does that make it tough now, you get to wait out this storm and then go out, finish off and just wait and see how -- what the conditions are for the guys in the afternoon to see how this stands up?   
 BRIAN GAY:  Yeah, I'm pretty much done.  I don't have to hit balls again, just go out and putt on the last green, get some lunch and hang out, and can't control what the weather does, you know.  Hopefully it won't be too easy for them later.   
  
  Q.  How far do you have left on the 18 green to finish up?   
 BRIAN GAY:  I'm kind of front left.  Pin is back right.  I'm probably 40 feet straight up hill pretty much.   
 COLIN MURRAY:  Alright.  Anybody else?  Alright.  Brian, thanks for your time.   
 BRIAN GAY:  Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT