STANFORD ST. JUDE CHAMPIONSHIP
June 7, 2007
Brian Gay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Just talk about the day.   
 BRIAN GAY:  It was obviously a windy day and I knew the scoring would be tough.  I just wanted to hang in there and get off to a good start with a nice birdie.  (Inaudible)  Shot even on the back.   
 Birdied 16, birdied 17 and made the turn.  Made a good birdie on 1, playing long into the wind there.  Hit a 5-iron in there and made birdie.   
 Birdied par 5 No. 3 and actually missed a 4-footer on 7 but then I holed a bunker shot on 8, front bunker.   
  
  Q.  Just tell us generally the difference between the Florida swing where you played well in Tampa but the Honda and Players Championship.  A lot of these events it seems like --   
BRIAN GAY:  There was a long stretch where it was really hard where all the cuts were over-par, like windy, and real tough golf courses.  Tough stretch there for awhile.   
  
  Q.  What's your preference?   
 BRIAN GAY:  I like it dry and windy and warm.  I like it hot, but, you know, I'm not a power hitter or anything like that, so windy and dry helps me.   
  
  Q.  Weather like that?   
 BRIAN GAY:  I grew up in the South.  I'm used to the wind.  I like the bermuda grass and my position, you can just throw it at the flag; premium on pars.   
  
  Q.  How about your success here?   
 BRIAN GAY:  Had a couple good tournaments; two of the last three, actually.  Played in the last group and the last day I finished 5th, I think.   
 Last year I played real good the first two days.  I was looking back at the scores, I shot like 4-over on the weekend but still finished like 16th place or something.  Scores were really high.  Guess it was a little windy last year.   
  
  Q.  It's hard just being in the field, probably different than those in the last few years.  Still it's kind of nice to see your name up on the leaderboard.   
 BRIAN GAY:  Surprising.  Third place at 1-under, that's different.  Playing good, but it doesn't seem like anything.  Obviously, it's a good score.   
  
  Q.  You had to expect as the round went on that it would be a good score.   
 BRIAN GAY:  Yeah, starting out.  I saw that -- I show know -- I know the scores were high.  It was going to blow all day.   
  
  Q.  Traditionally, your best finishes that you've had through the years, has it been in similar type conditions, do you recall finishing in the Top-3?   
 BRIAN GAY:  Played real good at Tampa, the last two tournaments there, and the scores were not real high but pretty high, single digits.   
 And played well -- when I finished 5th here, it was low the first two rounds and then it got really windy.  It was right before they change the greens, so just let them die out.  They were pretty hard.  But I never done well in like the Bob Hope, 25-under.    
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT