HP CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
May 2, 2003
Brian Gay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.  Thanks for joining us.  You did very well, 66, which is 13-under.  If we could just get some opening comments from you about your week so far.
BRIAN GAY:  Obviously, I'm very pleased, nice turn-around.  Hit the ball really well, hit a lot of greens yesterday, not quite as many today but putted real well both days.

Q.  We'll go through your scorecard and then take some questions.  On the front side, birdied number (inaudible).
BRIAN GAY: I drove the fairway bunker, laid up, (inaudible) wedge about 7 feet.

Q.  For 5?
BRIAN GAY: 5-iron down the fairway, 6 or 7 feet.

Q.  5, par 5?
BRIAN GAY: 6.

Q.  6?
BRIAN GAY: 6, L wedge 75 yards to about 15 feet.

Q.  Par 3  --
BRIAN GAY: 6-iron right behind the hole.

Q.  Backside, 12, par 3?
BRIAN GAY: 8-iron about 7 feet.

Q.  15?
BRIAN GAY: Just in the rough, laid up the second, 
L wedge about (inaudible) feet.

Q.  16?
BRIAN GAY: 16, driver and sand wedge, 25 feet.

Q.  Then bogey on 18?
BRIAN GAY: Hazard and dropped, had a bad lie, played it to the right, 8-iron (inaudible).

Q.  Pretty good bogey?
BRIAN GAY: Yeah (inaudible).

Q.  You've got one Top 10 this year at the Honda Classic.  Maybe talk about that week, which you did particularly well, you had four rounds in the 60s that week.  The conditions were low scoring kind of like this.  It sounds like it might be a good week for you this week as well.
BRIAN GAY: (Inaudible) Florida, obviously the Honda (inaudible), I've played this course a lot.  I played here in junior golf (inaudible).

Q.  Is this course well suited to your game?
BRIAN GAY: Actually, not really.  Most people think it's more of a big hitter course, par 5s (inaudible).

Q.  How would you explain it not being suited to you?
BRIAN GAY: You know, Nicholas courses, I like a lot of his courses, not being a long hitter you can still (inaudible) get a lot of birdie opportunities.

Q.  Can you talk about how the course has developed over the years?
BRIAN GAY: You know, I don't  (inaudible) I don't think it seems (inaudible), nothing has been added, not that I can remember (inaudible).

Q.  Not much difference since you shot the tournamentÃ‚ ¹s two day total record two years ago?
BRIAN GAY: Similarities?  It's usually about the same here every year.  There is a couple where the greens get firm and dry and kind of brown.  There is some wet spots in the fairways, I had a few balls on the front nine this morning, in the if you hit a brown spot it runs 30 or 40 (inaudible).

Q.  Do you think the scores will settle a bit going into the weekend?
BRIAN GAY: (Inaudible).

Q.  Anything else?  Thank you very much, Brian. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT