THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 11, 2000
Brian Gay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







BRIAN GAY: Birdie on 2, driver, L-wedge, six or seven feet. Birdie on 5, 7-iron almost
went in, about two feet right behind the hole. Birdie on 13, hit driver off the tee, had
about a 20-, 30-yard pitch, lipped it out for eagle; had a tap-in. 14, hit 7-iron third
shot about four feet. 16, sand wedge about ten or twelve feet.

Q. Quick question on 15. Straight into the wind and --

BRIAN GAY: 15, I hit a 3-wood, straight into the wind, had like 236 or 235. I left it
short. Hit it pin-high about 20 feet; left it short.

Q. Talk about your position.

BRIAN GAY: I didn't even look at the scoreboard today. I knew I had to be up there last
few holes. When I birdied -- when I made those last two birdies, just tried to stay
focused and keep doing what I have been doing all week; really didn't think about it too
much, to be honest. Which is good if you can do that, I think.

Q. When is the last time you held a tournament trophy in your hand?

BRIAN GAY: That's a good question. That would be Golden Bear Tour, if I can remember
that far back. It was 1997 last time I played that Tour.

Q. You have seen the last few weeks, obviously been a lot of first-time winners out
here. Franklin almost did it last week. Do you start thinking you can be one of those guys
when you have seen what has been happening?

BRIAN GAY: Yeah, it gives you incentive. Everyone seems to be playing so well, just
amazed at the scores this week. It's funny that I am right there shooting them. I was just
thinking about the cut yesterday, how low it was. I was like, man, this is unbelievable
because I think the cut was 3-under last week at Doral and it was 4-under here and I am
thinking, this course is harder than last week just because it is windier and there is
rough around the greens. Everybody seems to be scoring so well, everybody is so good, it
is just unbelievable. Yeah, it does -- I mean, I see that I am capable of doing it when I
see guys that haven't won getting in that position, even with the Jim Furyks and everybody
else that are still winning guys that haven't won are getting there having a chance to
win, so it gives me confidence.

Q. Is there anything that you can learn or that you did learn perhaps by watching what
Furyk and Langham did playing last Sunday, any of the guys?

BRIAN GAY: Obviously last week learned don't ever give up. I am not in that situation,
wasn't the case today where -- I guess it could happen tomorrow, but you never know what
is going to happen. It is a crazy game. Basically never give up and just see what happens.

Q. What would be your approach tomorrow? Will you look at leader boards?

BRIAN GAY: I probably won't. I didn't do it today. I think I will be better off if I
don't.

Q. Why don't you want to look at it?

BRIAN GAY: I think it is a distraction really. I can't control what everyone else is
doing, so it doesn't really do me any good to look. I am sure my caddie would let me know,
you know, at the end if need be.

Q. How has your season gone so far?

BRIAN GAY: It's been a little better than last -- the last few weeks. Really struggled
with the putter on the West Coast - missed a couple of CUTS by a shot, played pretty well
in Tucson, finished 13th, and that gave me a lot of confidence there. Just started putting
better for the most part. I guess I think I have made 4 of the last 5 cuts so I have been
playing better.

Q. When you started the year what were your goals? Goal to win a tournament? Goal to
keep your card?

BRIAN GAY: I think I am good enough to win out here. I didn't write it down on paper,
but I was disappointed after last year. I think the first year out here is really tough,
seemed to be lost every week, don't know where you are going, a lot of things going on
around you. I was just excited to have another chance and to see how I do the second time
around knowing where to go to register; knowing where to stay; not being lost; seeing the
golf courses. That was really my only thought coming -- I know I am good enough to be out
here. I was looking forward to the chance again this year after having to go back to
Q-School.

Q. How long did you live in Palm Beach Gardens?

BRIAN GAY: Just a little over four years. Spring of 1995 'til last summer. 

Q. You obviously got connections down here. You played the Golden Bear Tour. Do you
think you play well in South Florida? Do you think this is --

BRIAN GAY: It is kind of like home. I grew up in the south. I like Bermuda. I like warm
weather. I have played -- I lived down here played the mini-tours down here. Went to
school in Gainseville, so, I mean, it is familiar to me. That was one -- like the West
Coast I putted so poorly on different poa annua greens and just a whole different game out
there.

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT