CHEEZ-IT BOWL: OKLAHOMA STATE VS MIAMI
December 29, 2020
Malcolm Rodriguez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Oklahoma State Cowboys 37, Miami Hurricanes 34
 Q. How do you feel about the team's effort today and leaving Orlando champions?
 MALCOLM RODRIGUEZ:   It feels good.  We're all happy, excited.  It was a dogfight till the end and we knew that.  We're going to celebrate tonight. It was a good overall team win.
 Q. It was announced before the game I think on the radio you said that you were coming back next season.  I guess can you break down that decision and what went into that?
 MALCOLM RODRIGUEZ:   I talked to my family and the biggest thing was coming back and getting my degree.  And since I switched my major so late, supposed to finish next fall, so that was a big, important part.  I still felt like I could work on some key points in my game.
 Q. That tackle at the end, you had that big tackle and stuff.  For you to finish that way this season knowing you're coming back, what does that mean?
 MALCOLM RODRIGUEZ:   I mean, it's just -- kind of relieving I guess.  Coming in next year, got to still -- got a lot to work on.  Like I said, there's always something to work on.  Just ending like that this year is kind of like a steppingstone for next year.
 Q. What has made the defense be so good on third, and today, fourth down, especially late?  What do you think's been the key to that?
 MALCOLM RODRIGUEZ:   Definitely putting pressure on the quarterback.  Getting our rush out there and getting to the quarterback's face.  That's definitely props to our D-Line guys.
 Q. What are some of those things you'd like to improve on next year when you come back?
 MALCOLM RODRIGUEZ:   Missed tackles.  I missed a couple tackles tonight.  So learning on that and still kind of just using hands and stuff towards the O-Line when I get pulled, so that's one of the things I want to work on.
 Q. Looking at the guy who is this was their last game as a Cowboy, from a teammate's perspective, how big was it to be able to get them out with a win in this Cheez-It Bowl?
 MALCOLM RODRIGUEZ:   It's always a big accomplishment to send them out with a win and send them out happy.  A lot of guys that are leaving are pretty happy.  So that was a big part.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT