NL DIVISION SERIES: GIANTS v REDS
October 7, 2012
Pablo Sandoval
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Yesterday in the ninth inning when you were facing Chapman it looked like so much fun because he's bringing it and you're bringing it.   Can you talk about what that at‑bat was like for you? 
PABLO SANDOVAL:   It was bottom of the 9th, bases loaded, tying run at the home plate, you just try to go out there.   He throws hard.   He came.   I just try to put the barrel on the ball, I made a couple of pitches, but it's a good match‑up to face guys like that, and you fight for that at‑bat.   It was exciting for me to be in that situation. 

Q.   Fun? 
PABLO SANDOVAL:   Yeah. 

Q.   After a loss like that, as a team, what are you guys talking about?   How are you guys feeling?   How important is this game tonight and how are you guys doing as a team after losing that game? 
PABLO SANDOVAL:   You know what, it was tough because we want to win home first game.   We came here today with new minds so we talk about yesterday, tough loss.   But today is our day.   We want to play like it's the last game of the season, every single game we want to do that in the postseason so we try to do our best. 

Q.   We're seeing wild pitches all over baseball the last couple of days.   I don't know if you have noticed but a lot are scoring runs.   If you're a base runner, you just be ready to haul? 
PABLO SANDOVAL:   Yeah, yeah, if you see that you have to be ready on the base.   The last couple of games, you know, here, all the teams have been doing that.   You have to be ready. 
A situation like this you have the pressure on you try to do too much.   That's the situation with the pitchers. They try to do too much that's the time they throw wild so you have to be ready. 

Q.   Last time when the Giants won the World Series in 2010, you didn't play that much.   Can you talk about now? Do you feel more a part of the team that you're playing every single day? 
PABLO SANDOVAL:   Yeah, 2010 was a tough year, you know.   It's past.   Now we are in 2012.   I try to do the best, being more‑‑ going to be more in action.   I just try to do things out there, don't try to do too much, try to do my work, try to help my team win the game, and that's what I need to do in that situation. 

Q.   When the game was starting yesterday, did you think about that at all?     Talk about how it's better to be in the position to be able to help the team and being in the lineup and being part of this team?   Obviously you were part of the team in 2010, too, but being part of this team? 
PABLO SANDOVAL:   Tell you the truth, the night before I don't sleep.   It's exciting to be in postseason, you fight one‑hitter 62 games, you make it. 
So it's exciting to be part of that, to be part of the team in 2010 and 2012, so I'm just going to try to do my things out there, try to do my job, try to help my teammates, the team.   We have a great team so we can do this together. 

Q.   I think you told a couple of reporters that you plan to play winter ball also WBC next year.   How can you do all of that and prepare for the season and go another six months, seven months next season without just dropping? 
PABLO SANDOVAL:   I don't know, I don't know.   I just think about that.   Now I'm concentrating on the postseason, we will see when we make the last out of the season, we see what's going on and what's going to happen.   I want to play in the WBC. That was one of my goals to represent my country. 
So I still want to play winter ball, too, I want my fans from Venezuela to see me play there.   So you have to make a schedule for that and I have to think about that, all of Novemberto rest and think about all the opportunities. 

Q.   Can you talk about Madison Bumgarner and obviously what he's meant to the team and how he's changed since 2010 and kind of what his approach is like before a game on a game day?   What have you seen from him? 
PABLO SANDOVAL:   You know, when he came to the big leagues I know I've seen him in the minor leagues.   He's a great guy, a great pitcher.   He throws the ball well.   He is he's a younger kid.   When he gets here in the 2010 postseason he matched every guy.   He was 21, but now he's different.   He has more experience and he's one of the guys you want in the situation like this.   He has been with this team and he has pressure on today, so we'll see what happens.   







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT