FRANKLIN AMERICAN MORTGAGE CHAMPIONSHIP
May 4, 2006
Beth Bader
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PAUL ROVNAK:  Great round today, 65, bogey free 7 under and you're tied for the lead.  Just go ahead and tell us about your day, and we'll take questions from there.
BETH BADER:  It started out good.  The fact that it wasn't raining was a blessing.  The conditions were pretty benign for scoring and the greens were soft.  It did play longer, but if you kept the ball in the fairway, the pins were fairly accessible.

So it started off pretty good, starting on the back.  Hit a couple of good shots coming in to about five, ten, 15 feet, and that kind of gets your round going and things snowballed after that.  Had a great pairing and had a lot of fun and that always helps.
Q.  Does this give you confidence being tied for the lead?
BETH BADER:  It's Thursday, so I definitely put myself in position.  You know, the fact that it's Thursday is a whole other story, but it sure helps being 7 under the first day.

Yeah, I feel good.  I feel good about my swing.  It's kind of progressively gotten better.  I kind of felt pretty good and felt positive, so, you know, there's definitely a lot less fight, that's for sure.
Q.  You missed five cuts this year.  Has there been any particular part of your game you're working on or something that hadn't been working that started clicking this week?
BETH BADER:  I think in the beginning, a little bit of ball striking.  I just have some stuff that I worked on this winter was still kind of rolling over to the first couple of events.

So I put a lot of decent time in this winter and I needed to shut my brain off and kind of play golf and I haven't yet.  You know, it's crazy how something clicks, and that's kind of what's happened the last couple of weeks.

Now, I feel like I'm trying to hone it in a little bit.  So it always helps to roll some putts in.  I've been doing that.  I've just been missing some putts that I have been seeing my line good and just haven't fallen in.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Take us through your score card.
BETH BADER:  On 10, hit it to about three feet and made a pretty easy birdie there.  So that was a good way to start off.  I hit 9 iron.

12, the par 3, I hit 3 wood like 212 or something like that to about four feet.  So that was a good shot in there.

15, I think I hit 8 iron in there about six feet.  The first five or six holes, I hit a lot of clubs close and had like six or eight feet.  I think that was an 8 footer for birdie.

17, I had my 58 degree and had like a 65 foot break to six feet and rolled it in.

2, it was a good tee shot.  I had my 60 degree wedge.  Had 110 in there and knocked it to six feet made the putt.

7, the eagle, I hit a good tee shot, 3 wood to about ten feet and made that putt.  So.
Q.  First bogey free round of the year?
BETH BADER:  Definitely felt like my most comfortable round today.  Nothing was going squirrely.  You feel like you can kind of give it a rip when things are working.

I think when you shoot 65, most of the time it feels pretty, not easy, but everything kind of level, even keel, that's kind of how it felt today for sure.
Q.  Since the weather has held so far, do you anticipate 7 under may stand at the top?
BETH BADER:  Yeah, there's definitely some accessible pins out here today.  I didn't birdie a couple of the par 5s, like 18.  I can see someone going a little bit lower than that.  I still feel like I left some out there.  I definitely feel there are birdie holes out there, that's for sure.  It's possible to go lower than that, yeah, absolutely.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT