ADELAIDE INTERNATIONAL
January 17, 2020
Dayana Yastremska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
D. YASTREMSKA/A. Sabalenka   
6-4, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  She pushed you really hard, especially in that second set. What did you do to make sure you stayed steady in that tiebreak?  
DAYANA YASTREMSKA: In the second set when I was 3-1 up, I felt a little bit my legs were heavy, and I felt like I got a little bit tired. So I lost my focus.   
And then, after Sascha came on court, I got some energy, and I really tried to do what he told me. I think I just fight. That's it.   
 Q.  How does it feel to make your first Premier final?  
DAYANA YASTREMSKA: It's nice. I'm very happy (smiling). And especially in the beginning of the year. I think it brings me some confidence before the Grand Slam, so it's nice to be in the finals.   
 Q.  You have beaten her every time you have played her. She's quite a big hitter. Is her style of game something that suits you?  
DAYANA YASTREMSKA: I feel comfortable playing with her. Like, she's aggressive. Her style is pretty similar to mine, so I feel very comfortable playing with her.   
And I like the way she hit the balls. Feels like very energetic. But for me, it's pretty comfortable. Even though I would get really, like, game by game, it's still nice to play against her.   
 Q.  Sascha Bajin has worked with a lot of players. What do you feel is the most important thing he's brought to you and your game?  
DAYANA YASTREMSKA: I think it's to be able to use my aggressivity on the court in the right way and being able to play and to win even though if you're not really feeling comfortable on the court.   
So we were working on that discipline that makes you, like, really -- I don't know how to explain it, but being able to find the way on the court.   
It's tough to explain (smiling).   
 Q.  And when he came down to the court, what was he telling you?  
DAYANA YASTREMSKA: He told me to -- simple things. To stay calm, stay focused, being disciplined on the court, do the things we were practicing. Get a little bit more focused on my serve. Try to play a little bit, like, my game but more stable. Simple things.   
 Q.  Why do you think that this week has been this sort of a breakthrough for you to reach your first Premier level final?  
DAYANA YASTREMSKA: I had a good preseason. I work on a lot of things. And I think that's, like, a payoff. I don't know why exactly it's this tournament. I guess Brisbane it was just, like, the tournament I had to feel everything, you know, myself.   
Here I started really to feel, with each game, that I'm playing better and better. I think that's why it's like this, like trying to play each match as good as I can. Here I am in the finals (smiling).   
 Q.  Obviously you don't know at this point who you're going to be facing in that final. If you could look at both players, what are your thoughts if you were to play Ash and what are your thoughts if you were to play Collins?  
DAYANA YASTREMSKA: I played already with both of them. Ashleigh is definitely a very great player. Collins is more aggressive.   
But I don't have any preference. I will like to play with both of them.   
 Q.  You managed actually one more unforced error than Sabalenka, but you hit 28 winners compared to her 17. Was it your plan to be so aggressive against her? Because she's such an aggressive player, as well.  
DAYANA YASTREMSKA: Yes, well, that for sure was part of the tactic game, to be more aggressive than her so she doesn't have a lot of opportunity to be able to control the rallies and be in the court.   
And I think that was important against her, and against a player who is playing really aggressive, just try to get the first initiative of the rally.   
 Q.  She seemed to hit every shot against Simona yesterday. Today it didn't seem like every shot was coming off. Was there a moment in the match early on where you realized that she might not be at 100%?  
DAYANA YASTREMSKA: Sorry?   
 Q.  Was there a moment in the match where you realized that she might not be playing as well as she was against Simona?  
DAYANA YASTREMSKA: Meaning... I thought that she wouldn't be able to play...   
 Q.  What was the moment you just kind of realized she might not be at the same heights that she was playing Simona at?  
DAYANA YASTREMSKA: Ah, okay. Well, I for sure expected a good game from her today. As she lost to me already twice, I knew that she gonna be very determinated on the court.   
But I didn't really see her playing yesterday against Halep. My coach saw, so I just talked to him about a tactic. I saw my game against her when we played in Strasbourg, so just to make sure and see the way I played.   
But I think today anyways she played good. Yeah, she had unforced errors from the easy shots, but I guess she was a little bit nervous because it didn't really go the way she wanted to play, I think so, because I didn't really let her do that.   
 Q.  You have used the coach's timeout really well for this tournament. How big has it been for you to be able to bring Sascha down at these kind of key moments and try and refocus you?  
DAYANA YASTREMSKA: I mean, I have been working for that, and I just improved a couple things which didn't let me really to make another step last year, and I think that's also a part from Sascha. He helps me with that.   
I'm happy to be in the finals, and I'm happy that we could start the season in a good way together.   
 Q.  Did you take a look at all the Australian Open draw or...  
DAYANA YASTREMSKA: Yeah, I saw. I saw the draw yesterday. I think it's very good. I'm gonna try to get to Serena, because as I said, I would really like to play with her again. So I think it's really good draw. I'm going to play match by match.   
 Q.  You played the Australian Open for the first time last year. I'm just curious, how do you reflect on that experience? And do you feel that the conditions there suit you?  
DAYANA YASTREMSKA: Yeah, I like to play in Australia. I like when it's hot, when it's humid like here.   
For sure, this year it will be different because of what is going on now in Australia. But I'm still happy to be there and be back and play. I love Australia (smiling).   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT