WUHAN OPEN
September 25, 2019
Dayana Yastremska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








D. YASTREMSKA/K. Pliskova
6-1, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. What do you make of your performance?
DAYANA YASTREMSKA: I mean, I just went on court, I was like, Okay, this is pretty big. I got a little bit stressed. I just started really being calm, really determinated [sic] to each ball.
I think I just done my job. I was really in a good courage today. I think I prepare myself well.
Q. Does it mean more to play so well against such a good player?
DAYANA YASTREMSKA: It's always nice to play against top players. You always try to make everything as good as possible. So I enjoyed being on court.
I didn't really put pressure on myself because I knew I had nothing to lose. I saw the screen. I'm 28 and she is 2. I was like, Okay. I just tried to imagine I'm No. 2, it was a bit easier.
Anyways, I mean, it's nice to win top players.
Q. Did you take anything out of the match from Madrid? Did that help you at all today?
DAYANA YASTREMSKA: Well, in Madrid, yeah, it helps me because I could see that I could play that level. I mean, I was really close. I had a match points. But I was sick that match, I played with a temperature. I think that's the difference between the match in Madrid and here. Here, I could really have a lot more power in important moments where I really had to give it all.
Well, I took for sure experience from the match. I tried to prepare a good tactic. But on court I just played.
Q. A lot of us were talking about how we were surprised this was your first top-10 win. With the season you've had, it seemed that would have been something you already had. From your perspective, does this feel like your first top-10 win or did you feel this level was always there?
DAYANA YASTREMSKA: Well, I know my level of the game. If I'm really in a good shape, I can beat anybody. That's for sure. I feel that, you know.
I don't know how to explain it. I played this year against Wozniacki, against Azarenka. But it's a little bit different. They were, like, ex No. 1, Grand Slam champion. But she's right now No. 2. So it's a little bit different.
I don't know. On court I just play.
Q. What is it you learned the most this season about your game, about the tour, about yourself?
DAYANA YASTREMSKA: I didn't hear the beginning.
Q. What did you learn the most this year about the game or the tour, life on tour?
DAYANA YASTREMSKA: The biggest lesson of this year?
Q. Yes.
DAYANA YASTREMSKA: Whoa. I think the biggest lesson is I could take really good lessons from each match. I think, yes, I didn't have really just one match. I think from each match I could take something really important to improve my game, to prove to myself that I could really put my level of the game higher and higher. I was working really hard on that.
I hope I can manage to stay now with the level I have and improve it and perfect my game. We will see. You never know which day it will be, good or bad. We will see tomorrow.
Q. You talked about not being in your best rhythm of the first two matches. Did you feel this level coming today?
DAYANA YASTREMSKA: It's not that it comes like this (snapping fingers). It takes a while. It takes work, it takes patience. You have to trust yourself that you can find your game.
I think it's took me a while to get back to this kind of game I play right now because I know that I can play like that. In this year, I had ups and downs. I don't know. It's not like this (snapping fingers). I don't know how to say this in English.
Q. Snap.
DAYANA YASTREMSKA: It's not coming like a snap (smiling).
Q. If you look back from the beginning of the season until now, how different of a player and a person are you compared to January 1st?
DAYANA YASTREMSKA: I'm 19, not 18.
Q. Good call.
DAYANA YASTREMSKA: I think I grew up one centimeter more. Well, it takes me a bit of things so I answer like this.
For sure I have more experience with the game and just with the normal life. I had some moments in some situations from which I could really learn a lot of things. So long to explain every detail.
I think I just got more discipline in sport and a little bit more wise in normal life.
Q. How does wisdom in your normal life manifest?
DAYANA YASTREMSKA: Wow, it's tough to explain. For example, when I have some decision I have to make, I'm not doing just with emotions. I try to think about it more, about the future, just to get the things become, like...
I don't know how to explain. When you say step by step, it's the same in everything. I think I just got a little bit more clever with my choices and with everything what's going around me. It's tough to explain.
Q. A lot of players of your generation has made breakthroughs this year, Coco, Bianca. Have you paid attention to their performance?
DAYANA YASTREMSKA: They're young but they're also very good. There's a lot of things I could learn from them, as well. I'm really happy that now the young generation is coming up. It's really time for us.
Every one of them is really good. They're different. It's nice to see how we are improving and getting closer to the top. Well, I hope we will continue to make a good results.
Q. Is there something that's different from your generation from past generations?
DAYANA YASTREMSKA: I didn't understand the question.
Q. Do you think there's a difference in your generation from the past generations?
DAYANA YASTREMSKA: This generation with the past?
Q. Young players.
DAYANA YASTREMSKA: We are a little bit younger. We have a little bit more energy. Well, it's not the bad compliment to them. It's true. We have more energy. We can get more often on fire. I don't know how to explain it.
Older leaving, young are coming. It's in everything. We have a bit kind of different style. We learn from them, and we are getting better than them, you know?
Q. Is your mom here with you?
DAYANA YASTREMSKA: No. I'm only with my father here. For the first time he was doing the on-court coaching. He came today with the phone on court. I was like, No. When we had time to talk, we were talking to referees who are trying to explain us, Please put your phone back to the pocket.
We were, What? Sorry.
I realized we lost a lot of time. But my mother is with the sister now. She's playing tournament under-14, tennis Europe.
Q. I normally see you with your mom. What is the best advice that she's kind of been able to give you throughout this year?
DAYANA YASTREMSKA: Her best advice this year?
Q. Yes.
DAYANA YASTREMSKA: Well, every her advice is very important to me. I think you look for yourself and protect yourself. I think this is the most important.
Q. Your next opponent is playing now. What do you make of Petra or Sloane?
DAYANA YASTREMSKA: Well, I will be happy to play with both of them. Again, I'm going to prepare myself. I'm going to look match. I'm going to make tactic. I'm going to go and play.
But both of them are really tough players. They're a bit different. We will see. I mean, I'm happy to play with each of them. Another good experience.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT