THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 5, 2019
Dayana Yastremska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
D. YASTREMSKA/V. Golubic   
7-5, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How does it feel to be in the second week of a Grand Slam?  
DAYANA YASTREMSKA: It's first time for me, so it's exciting.  I'm happy.  It's nice to be in the second week.   
 Q.  Has this been a goal for you?  
DAYANA YASTREMSKA: To get into the second week?  Well, yes.  Yes, it was my goal.  So I could realize that.  Now we will see how I move on or we will see how it will go.   
 Q.  How are you feeling about your year in general?  One of your first seasons on tour.  What have you thought about it?  
DAYANA YASTREMSKA: It's not easy to play just the WTA tournaments, but I got used to it for now.  It's nice.  You always have good matches, tough matches.  So I can -- I don't know.  I don't know.  It was in the beginning a little bit -- I don't know how to explain that.  Well, it's just nice to play pros (smiling).   
 Q.  Which way do you think you have improved the most so far?  
DAYANA YASTREMSKA: In this year?   
 Q.  In your general game.  What part of your game?  
DAYANA YASTREMSKA: I think I could improve a little bit my defense.  You mean in the game, right?   
 Q.  Yeah.  
DAYANA YASTREMSKA: Well, my serve get a little bit better, and I have a lot of things to work on still, so I don't know, really.  Well, I improve each part by a little bit.   
 Q.  You took a medical timeout at 5-2?  
DAYANA YASTREMSKA: Yes.   
 Q.  Things went in your direction there.  What was going on and how much do you think that changed the match?  
DAYANA YASTREMSKA: I felt a little bit my shoulder in the beginning of the first set.  It was a little bit tight.   
So I couldn't really play well my forehand and serve.  So I decided to take the medical and maybe could help me to relax.  So then I felt a little bit better, a little bit relaxed.  I could play my forehand and serve a little bit better.   
But I hope it's nothing serious.  I will have two days to recuperation, and then will be back to fighting.   
 Q.  Your next opponent Zhang Shuai.  You played her in Hong Kong last year.  
DAYANA YASTREMSKA: Yes.   
 Q.  How much do you think winning against her in Hong Kong...  
DAYANA YASTREMSKA: It wasn't easy.  It was a really good fight.  Even if I won in two sets, we had each game was tight, so we were going always like point by point.  So it will be a difficult match, I think, but I will try to get my focus really good.   
We will talk about a tactic, and I hope I will be able to manage myself, to stay calm, and take the emotions under control.  I think it will be good.   
 Q.  That match was on hard court.  Now we are talking about grass court.  How much adjustment do you think you will make compared to that match to this coming match?  
DAYANA YASTREMSKA: Well, I think hard and grass it's a little bit different.  No, it's same.  I mean it's a little bit same, because it's both fast.   
I think on grass I will have more chances.  I think it's better for me.  Well, I don't know, but I think so, that it's good that we play on the grass court.  It's fast.  Grass is fast.  But I think in Hong Kong the hard court was even faster than here, the grass court this year.   
Sorry, but it's true.  But we will see.  I think it will be nice match, anyways.   
 Q.  Your junior final you played here against Potapova.  Crazy ending?  
DAYANA YASTREMSKA: Challenges.  Don't remember me this moment, please.   
 Q.  Do you have happy memories at Wimbledon?  You lost that match, but it was still a good run to the final here.  Curious what your Wimbledon feelings are.  
DAYANA YASTREMSKA: It's nice to remember that you have been in the finals of Wimbledon, but it's not nice to remember the last game in this moments when I had the opportunities, chances to get back if I could win just one point after all those challenges.   
But I think I was too emotional, so I don't like to remember the last game.  But still a Wimbledon final, it's nice.  It's nice memories.   
 Q.  You mentioned emotions.  On the court you can be quite fiery and pumped up.  Here you're quite calm.  Where do you get the on-court emotions from?  
DAYANA YASTREMSKA: Like, on court?   
 Q.  On the court, where do you get that from, the fire and the fight?  
DAYANA YASTREMSKA: Oh, I don't know.  It depends on the atmosphere, the way how I feel, the way how I think.  So if it's, like, tight moments in the match, well, I try to keep myself calm.  But same time, I try to be aggressive.  It just somehow goes by itself.  I try to control it, but sometimes I get under the control, so...   
 Q.  How do you feel in this situation?  You're talking to a whole bunch of older people and doing the media things.  Is it difficult, or do you enjoy it?  
DAYANA YASTREMSKA: I enjoy it, but I have a small problem when I meet the media.  I always too open.  So now I try to stay a little bit -- no, for you it's interesting when players are too open, but I think that I have to be a little bit more closed.   
But I like to give interviews, I like to talk to people.  I enjoy it.   
 Q.  Where do you think you have been too open before?  
DAYANA YASTREMSKA: I mean, in every tournament when I give the interviews, I talk a lot about myself, and I'm usually always talk a lot and I'm always too open.   
So I think it's not just in the interviews.  It's just normal life I always have to stay a little bit more closed.  Sometimes I can say the things that I don't have to say.   
 Q.  You may have been asked this, I came in late, but there is an awful lot of players breaking through on the women's tour now.  Obviously you're not new, but you are having success here, going to the fourth round of a major.  Do you think there is a lot of opportunity right now?  Does it increase your confidence to see, like, Vondrousova going to the final of the French, things like that?  
DAYANA YASTREMSKA: Well, I think there has to be the day when the new generation have to pull out all pros, so it's nice that now young players are getting in the top.   
It's good that I'm in the fourth round, but I hope it's not the end.  I can see myself more far, but I will try not to think about it.  I will play match by match, point by point, and we will see where I get.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT