COLLEGE WORLD SERIES: LUBBOCK REGIONAL
June 4, 2017
Matt Deggs
Hayden Wesneski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Sam Houston State - 9, Arizona - 3   
MATT DEGGS: I thought we came out ready to play.  You know, it was late the last two nights.  You know, one thing about our ballclub is we're extremely comfortable at being uncomfortable, tired, beat up, et cetera.  We embrace that type of stuff.  We knew we'd have our hands full today.  We came out and were able to score early.  I thought we set a good tone on the mound with Seth Ballew.  We were able to take a lead, and then get it to our freshman Hayden Wesneski.  I thought he threw the ball really well.   
 Q.  Is there any message that you have for the players (indiscernible)?  
MATT DEGGS: Oh, I shook all their hands and told them I've got a ton of respect for them.  I love playing those guys because they play the game the right way.  They're very, very passionate.  They love baseball over there.  Their coaches love baseball.  Their coaches do a great job.  I'd play those guys every day if we could, win, lose or draw, just because they make us better.   
 Q.  What did you think was the difference in that second inning?  
MATT DEGGS: We were just fortunate to find -- just hit it where they ain't.  There were some flares in there and we just kind of kept racking up the two-out knocks.  You know, they had a chance to get off the field.  We had first and second and nobody and go pop out, punch out, and we were able to coax a couple walks, and then the floodgates kind of opened up with some flares and whatnot.   
 Q.  Still work to be done, but coming into the regional, two teams that were in the College World Series last year, what's going through your mind being in this position?  
MATT DEGGS: Well, you know, quite honestly, that's what we're here to do is to get to Omaha, and so we understand to get to Omaha, you have to play against and beat the best in the country.  We also understand that we're a David in a world full of Goliaths, and we've got to be -- we've got to be on point every time we take the field.  We've got to be sharper.  We've got to be faster, quicker, et cetera, to stand a chance, and so I was proud of the way our guys came out and played today, and we've given ourselves the right to play again tomorrow hopefully.   
 Q.  Talk a little bit about Bryce, Robby and Andrew's play today, batting-wise.  
MATT DEGGS: Three good players, three players that will all play for a paycheck and they'll all play for a long time.  In moments like this, you need your alpha dogs to step up and get it done, and that's what they did.   
 Q.  Talk about that fourth inning.  Seemed like Arizona was set for a big inning and you were able to get that hit to Hearn for a double play.  Talk about getting out of that.  
HAYDEN WESNESKI: Arizona is a good team and I knew I had to get out of there in a hurry, because momentum, they'll take over, and Hearn made a nice play, so that double play kind of jump started me.  I just needed an out to get me going.   
 Q.  When you took the ball did you have a set number of innings in your mind that you really wanted to get to, or was it six all the way?  
HAYDEN WESNESKI: Well, we had a game plan going into it, but just keep throwing strikes and good things happen.  I guess, no, six wasn't in mind, but just how the game went, just went in the flow with it.   
 Q.  Hayden, talk about seeing the offense put up nine runs in the first two innings.  I'm sure that's fun for you pitchers.  
HAYDEN WESNESKI: It relaxes you a little bit.  It gives you a little bit of wiggle room.  Ultimately you've got to throw strikes, but you don't have to be as perfect with them.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT