THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT
June 3, 2006
Clair Peterson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Carl, for coming over here for a few minutes.  Another long day.  First of all, we called off play due to a dangerous situation, returning at

7 a.m. tomorrow morning in position, and then they're going to start at 8:20 with the first tee, for the final round in twosomes off of one tee.

Carl, just talk about your day.  Pretty solid day out there.  Once again, great position going into the last day.
CARL PETTERSSON:  Yeah, thanks.  I played very similar to the way I played yesterday.  I just kept it rolling, just hitting it good.
Q.  I guess, Carl, here we go again, with another delay.  How do you continue to just kind of stay on keel through this whole thing?
CARL PETTERSSON:  It's actually fine, because I actually got finished yesterday.  I    I've only played 15 holes today.  It's a bit of a shame the weather came in.  We only have three holes to finish up tomorrow, and we'll finish up 18.
Q.  Do you notice a lot of difference in the course the way it's playing with the rain that's falling?
CARL PETTERSSON:  No, not really.  The course is fine today.  It's just soft.  It's not running anywhere.  The greens are holding.  So it's still playing good.
Q.  Would you talk about the way that you're approaching this tournament in terms of being the leader now?  For example, were you maybe doing a little scoreboard watching, a couple of guys in front of you were making some big moves there.  Were you allowing yourself to look at the boards a little bit as you were going around?
CARL PETTERSSON:  A little bit.  But it doesn't really matter, because it's still just the third round.  I wasn't paying much attention to it really.  And tomorrow I'll have a look on the back nine, but that's about it, really, just to see what's going on.
Q.  Because a win here this weekend would put you in the U.S. Open, does that put more pressure on this?
CARL PETTERSSON:  No.  I'm just going to try to play and see what happens.  If I've got to go to qualifying on Monday I'll go.  And if not, that would be great.
Q.  You were pretty steady, I mean you just had one bogey and then pars and birdies.  What were you doing best to be so steady?
CARL PETTERSSON:  Well, I hit it good, but if I did miss hit a shot, I ended up in a good spot or if I mishit a drive, it was still in the fairway.  I just kept it in play and putted pretty good.
Q.  Is there a chance that you think you might have an advantage that you have like a couple more to play tomorrow, maybe with some rain?
CARL PETTERSSON:  I don't know.  No, not really.  I wish we could have got done.  But there's nothing I can do about that.  I don't think there's an advantage.
Q.  You said something yesterday about the European Tour, this is just a routine type of week with weather and all that.  Do you adjust well to problems like this?  You seem just like nothing is bothering you?
CARL PETTERSSON:  Well, this happens all the time.  It's probably more in America than Europe, because of the lightning.
Q.  More lightning?
CARL PETTERSSON:  There's more lightning in America than Europe.  Europe hardly ever has lightning, it just pours down rain.  Throughout the year we have a ton of delays on the PGA TOUR, so you get used to it.
Q.  Could you see the weather coming in or were you surprised when the horn went off?
CARL PETTERSSON:  We just finished 15 and I looked up, and it looked dark, and I don't know where it came from.  We were hoping to get finished and then the horn went.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Carl, for your time.

You birdied 3.
CARL PETTERSSON:  Yeah, birdied 3.  I had 2 iron, gap wedge to about 15 feet and made I nice putted in.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Bogeyed 4.
CARL PETTERSSON:  5 out in the right bunker, hit a decent bunker shot, and I didn't hit a bad putt, just misread the putt.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Birdied 7.
CARL PETTERSSON:  7, I hit driver, 3 wood on the back left edge of the green and 2 putted.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Birdie on 11.
CARL PETTERSSON:  11, I hit 3 wood, 5 iron, sand iron to about six feet.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  And birdied 15.
CARL PETTERSSON:  15, I hit driver, 4 iron into the right hand trap and got it up and down and made about a 7 footer.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT