MLB WORLD SERIES: NATIONALS VS ASTROS
October 26, 2019
Alex Bregman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Houston - 8, Washington - 1   
 Q.  What did you see on that grand slam? What did you see with the pitch and how did it feel to get one of those, especially after last night with the bases loaded situation?  
ALEX BREGMAN: It felt good just to add some insurance, because Jose Urquidy was doing a great job, got us off to a great start. Our offense came out and scored some runs, and then to just add some insurance after they scored a run was huge.   
About the at-bat, I was just trying to hit something in the air in the middle of the field, hopefully drive in a run; Tucker is pretty fast. Just get it up there and hopefully he could score with one out.   
 Q.  Did you kind of feel like you hit the ball hard last night, feel like this was coming, that you were starting to square up balls? And also can you explain the feeling of after a night where they load the bases to face you that you then come through in that situation, the feeling of, I got you this time?  
ALEX BREGMAN: Yeah, this game was a game of failure, and you're going to fail a heck of a lot more than you succeed in it. So I think the feeling that I had when I hit that was I was pretty fired up. I wanted to help my team win a game and get this series back to 2-2.   
I mean, that's the thing about this lineup, though, like you could -- you're going to -- some days you walk Brantley and you get me to ground out. And some days I walk and Alvarez comes through. And some days Alvarez walks and Correa comes through or Gurriel comes through. I think that's one of the things we pride ourselves on is just passing the torch to the next guy. Was just fortunate enough to put a good swing on it.   
 Q.  You saw Rodney last night, as well. How much does getting that look help? Does that make a difference?  
ALEX BREGMAN: I don't know. He's really good. He's really tough to face. Righties and lefties because he has an incredible change-up. His fastball is dirty, has a lot of sink to it. And then he has another fastball that he throws, a four-seamer that has some jump to it.   
He's not an easy at-bat at all. He's really tough. Was just trying to get him in the air.   
 Q.  Congratulations. That's the most low-keyed fired up I've ever seen, by the way, as you described it. What was going through your heart and mind as you ran across the bases? Did you feel this was a blow that would most likely give you guys the win?  
ALEX BREGMAN: Yeah, I felt like it was some insurance that our pitching staff deserved. They were fantastic all day. I think they deserved some run support.   
 Q.  Can you talk about how fired up you are now with the series tied 2-2. It was not a good situation coming here obviously 0-2.  
ALEX BREGMAN: Yeah, we stopped the bleeding last night and then came out and played well again today. We want to just keep it rolling.   
Yeah, we're fired up. This is why you play the game. This is the World Series. We've got two great pitching staffs, two great offenses going at it. And it's a lot of fun. The atmosphere here is great. The atmosphere in Houston is great. And just super excited.   
 Q.  Last night after you guys won Carlos said that he thinks the Astros got their swagger back, and he also predicted big things for you tonight. Are the Astros better as a team and are you better as a player when you have your respective swagger?  
ALEX BREGMAN: I don't know. I don't know what words he used in different ways. But I just think we're better when we have fun, and we had fun the last two days. And winning is fun and playing well is fun.   
 Q.  You mentioned Urquidy earlier. What was it like for all of you guys to go out or to see him go out and have a night like this?  
ALEX BREGMAN: I think all of us have all the confidence in the world in him. We expected that he was going to go out and pitch really well. I think he did, as well. I saw him on the attack. I thought he was attacking all night, and using four different pitches. He's really tough. He was great for us.   
 Q.  Tomorrow facing Scherzer for a second time. Your thoughts on that?  
ALEX BREGMAN: I think he's one of the best pitchers in the game. It's always fun to compete against the best. We've got two of the best pitchers in the game facing off tomorrow in the World Series, tied 2-2, it's a lot of fun.   
 Q.  Just the fact that you have evened this series, regardless of the outcome tomorrow, which is a great pitching matchup, the fact that you know you'll be going back home, does that have any kind of a psychological effect for you guys at all?  
ALEX BREGMAN: Yeah. We are very happy to be going home. We love playing at Minute Maid. I think the guys like playing here. It's a lot of fun. This is a great atmosphere. The fans are into the game. And I think -- yeah, we're excited. We played really well.   
 Q.  From last night's at-bat against Rodney to tonight's at-bat, did you change your approach to help you hit that grand slam to give your team the big lead?  
ALEX BREGMAN: A little bit, yeah. I think there's two different situations; one was with two outs, one was with one out. The one today I was trying to get the ball in the air and just drive in a run.   
Tweaked a few things mechanically in between at-bats today. My first at-bat I thought I did a good job mechanically. And the next two it kind of broke down on me a little bit, what I was working on the last two weeks. And then my last two at-bats I was a lot better.   
But I wouldn't say I really changed too much approach-wise. I think just mechanically I was better.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT