AL DIVISION SERIES: INDIANS VS ASTROS
October 5, 2018
Alex Bregman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Houston-7, Cleveland-2   
 Q.  Alex, A.J. just said that you describe pressure as a privilege, which is a pretty cool quote.  Where do you get that mindset, and how much do you really thrive on these moments right here?  
ALEX BREGMAN: This is what it's all about.  This type of baseball is a blast.  Everybody in that clubhouse is living and dying on every pitch.  It's fun to play these types of games.  All the fans here were unbelievable today.  They were in every pitch, loud.  Just you've got to love to have the bat in your hands in these situations.  You have to.   
That's why I love playing for this team is because every guy in that clubhouse wants to be up with the game on the line.   
 Q.  Alex, yesterday you spoke so well about the desire to win for this team another World Series.  Is this what we saw today, getting off to these quick starts?  Is that what you meant?  
ALEX BREGMAN: Yeah, you kind of have to.  Winning Game 1 is huge, but the Indians are a tough team, and they're not going to back down at all.  We've got to bring this type of energy and this type of competitiveness into every single at-bat this series.   
Earlier in the year, they said our offense really wasn't clicking, and they're right, it wasn't.  We weren't really putting the level of quality at-bats that we normally do.  Today, 1 through 9 it was quality at-bat.  When we do that, we're really tough.   
 Q.  Kluber obviously is extraordinarily tough.  What specifically about the approach today as a team worked for you guys?  
ALEX BREGMAN: Well, he is very tough.  He's got three-plus pitches.  He has had a dominant career.  He lives on the edges of the plate.  When he does that, you really just have to go into battle mode, and we did that.  Then we're able to hit some pitches over the middle of the plate, hit some of the mistakes, which with guys like him and Carrasco and their team, you don't get a lot of mistakes.  They're tough.   
 Q.  Alex, yesterday you talked about how much fun it is to play behind Justin Verlander.  So how much fun was it today watching him go out there and do what he did?  
ALEX BREGMAN: Oh, it was a blast.  That's dominance.  He has done that since he's been in this uniform.  He turns that dial up when it's the postseason.  I mean, everyone in our clubhouse knows that, when he takes the mound, we have a very good chance to win, and we just need to do our part.   
 Q.  How big of a boost is it for you guys?  You talk about the offense, but when you see a Maldonado, you know what you're getting defensively, but he goes yard, and then you get the two knocks from Reddick right away.  Just kind of that extra kick at the end of the lineup.  
ALEX BREGMAN: Yeah, Reddick took some really, really good swings today.  It's a deep lineup.  Maldy, big homer for us to add an insurance run right there.  It's a deep lineup.  Like I said earlier, when we put together quality at-bats 1 through 9, it's tough for a pitcher.  There's no letup.  Like you said, Maldonado is the best defender, and when you get production offensively from him, it's unbelievable.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT