AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: YANKEES VS ASTROS
October 12, 2019
Alex Bregman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. AJ's given Kyle Tucker the start today. How do you think he's going to handle being in the playoffs and how do you think he's prepared?
ALEX BREGMAN: I think he's going to do great. Ever since he's been up here he's played his tail off every single day, great defense. He's had an unbelievable year offensively. And he's brought a lot of energy, and I think he's going to do that tonight, bring a lot of energy.
Q. There was a time a couple of months ago that I talked to you in the clubhouse and I think you were hitting around .275. You weren't happy. What is it that drives you so much to never, ever being satisfied?
ALEX BREGMAN: I want to win and I want to be the best, and a lot of work to do.
Q. Watching DJ, is anything he's doing a surprise to you, like it has been to some throughout the League, how well he's done in his first year with the Yankees?
ALEX BREGMAN: No, not at all. He's hit always. And I think he has a great approach offensively. He hits the ball to right field and he hits the ball -- when it's hard he hits it to right field, when it's soft he hits it to left field. And it's a perfect ballpark for him, too, in New York.
So his power, I feel like is the right center field. He drives the ball that way, which keeps him on every single pitch. He's tough to get out. So you try and pound them in, be he inside-outs to right field, then you throw him something soft and he's on time for it because he's trying to hit it the other way and homers to left field.
So I think that's one of the reasons why he's so good with runners in scoring position, too, is because he uses the whole field, he hits from line to line. We saw that when we played in Colorado. And he's an incredible, incredible player. And he's had an unbelievable year.
He's a tough out, man. One of the toughest outs in the game.
Q. What has Roberto Osuna meant to your club?
ALEX BREGMAN: He's been incredible. Just a winner. A guy who works his tail off, he competes. A guy you want on the mound for you. He's willing to lay it all out there on the line for his team, and we love playing defense behind him.
Q. Yuli had his best season this year. He's 35 years old. What do you think has allowed him to get better and how much of it do you think has to do with being in the league a few years?
ALEX BREGMAN: Oh, yeah, I think he's one of the best players in all of baseball. And I think that if he was over here when he was younger, I mean, who knows. He's incredible.
He's one of my dearest friends on our team. He's a great guy. And like you said, he's had one of his best years this year. He hits the ball like DJ, from line to line, and one other reason why he's so good with runners in scoring position. I mean, I think he's maybe one of the best Cuban players ever, honestly.
And I think he's underrated defensively at first base, too. He helps Correa and me and Altuve out a lot. We throw a lot of balls in the dirt and he picks us up. He's an incredible teammate, incredible guy. He's had an incredible year, and hopefully he continues to do that this series.
Q. You've played behind Verlander for plenty of big games the past few years. Can you describe the calming effect he provides when he's out there?
ALEX BREGMAN: I think he just attacks and you know what you're going to get every time out from him. He just -- he stays on the attack constantly. He knows what his strengths are. He knows what his weaknesses are. And he knows what the hitters' weaknesses are, as well, and he tries to exploit them. When he's on the mound we're confident, we're on our toes, but we're confident that he's going to get a strikeout or fly-out. And every now and again he gets a ground ball to us, we've got to make a play.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT