AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: ASTROS VS RED SOX
October 12, 2018
Alex Bregman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Alex, what do you remember about attending your first game at Fenway Park when you were a kid?  
ALEX BREGMAN: I remember it used to be glass, right?  We sat behind the glass and, yeah, we went and saw the Rays play the Red Sox.   
I want to say Hank Greenberg was -- no, I'm trying to remember who it was.  No, I'm sorry.  Excuse me.  Frank Howard was the Rays hitting coach.  My dad and my grandfather knew him, I think.  So we went and told him hello.  A great place to watch your first game.  Fenway Park is unbelievable.  Fans are incredible.   
 Q.  When they drafted you out of high school was there any minute or so of consideration at that moment or were you pretty set on going to LSU?  
ALEX BREGMAN: Honestly, I wanted to sign really bad if it was going to be in the first round.  But they didn't take me in the first round.  I basically told them I was going to go to school.  It was a big honor to be drafted by them.  But, yeah, there was never really a thought like, hey, I'm going to sign.  Once I fell out of the first round, I knew I was going to go to LSU and very glad I did.   
 Q.  Alex, the fact that this is now the two best teams in baseball, records this year, does that intensify or enhance this upcoming series, anything like that?  
ALEX BREGMAN: Well, yeah, it's, like you said, I think it's the two best teams playing against each other.  So it's going to be fun.  You've got two of the best fan bases in baseball, two of the best pitching staffs, two of the best offenses going at it.   
And it's going to be fun.  I mean, we played seven times during the regular season.  It was like really a evenly matched series.  We're looking forward to it.  We've got to keep our head down, take it one pitch at a time and stay focused.   
 Q.  You guys usually have home field advantage in the playoffs.  You're obviously starting here.  I know last year is last year, but does it help knowing that you split at Dodger Stadium last year, and when you played the Red Sox in the ALDS last season.  Even at Minute Maid, you were able to get to Sale early, kind of set that tone.  Does that help at all for this team mentally?  
ALEX BREGMAN: We definitely love playing in front of our fans at Minute Maid Park.  We feel like we play well there.  When I saw the Red Sox had the best home record and we had the best road record, it's the same exact number.   
I mean, we'll see.  The mound is still 60 feet, six inches away.  And as far as we're concerned we've got to go out and get Game 1.  And if we get Game 1 we've got home field advantage.   
 Q.  How excited are you to face Sale at night versus daytime, because daytime Sale at Fenway Park is definitely difficult?  
ALEX BREGMAN: Is it really?   
 Q.  That's what I've heard.  
ALEX BREGMAN: I think he's difficult whenever he's pitching, whenever.  He's tough.  Doesn't matter if he's pitching 1:00 p.m. or 7:00 p.m., he's going to be tough.  And we know that whole team over there is tough.  So we're looking forward to facing them.  We like to compete.  And we're going to take it one pitch at a time.  We've got a pretty good guy going for us too in Verlander.   
 Q.  Has there ever been a moment where you felt like A.J. wouldn't allow you to be yourself, or has that ever been an issue, or is it a quality he has to let guys show their personality, let them be themselves?  
ALEX BREGMAN: Well, I'll tell you, I wasn't going to show my personality as a 1-for-38 to start with.  You don't get to show your personality when you're 1-for-38.  No.  I think A.J. does a good job of letting everybody in our clubhouse just be themselves and get after it.  And he trusts that every day we're prepared and ready to compete.   
THE MODERATOR: Thanks.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT