ENERGIZER SENIOR TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 7, 1998
Jim Albus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JIM ALBUS: I hit the ball about the same.  I missed some chances with the putter which I haven't been doing the first couple of rounds.  Other than that, it was about the same.  Not spectacular hitting, but just didn't get them down the way I've been doing. It was a nicer day, too.  It was much easier to play. It was a two-sweater day instead of a three-sweater day.

JIM ALBUS: The whole week they did.  The first three holes all week played real hard.  It's just the way the wind was going.  They are good holes, even without any wind.  Today it wasn't quite as bad.  Today it would drive with a middle iron.  It was a drive with a long iron the last couple of days.  I've seen some woods going in there, too.

JIM ALBUS: I missed about an 8-footer for eagle on four and I made birdie there.  I hit it in about six inches on six so.  I made a couple easy birdies starting out.

JIM ALBUS: I hit a 9-iron.  I hit a 3-iron into the par 5.  And then a 9-iron on 6.  And I made bogey on 8.  I made just a terrible shot on the fairway, a fat shot with a 9-iron and made bogey there.  And I birdied 10 from about 12 feet, and that was about it.  And I missed some chances the next stretch of holes.  All the rest I did were pars.  10, I hit a 9-iron.

JIM ALBUS: Parred it in.  So it was nothing to write home about.
Â  

Q.  That's easy for you to say.  You don't have to do it.

JIM ALBUS: That's right.  You guys are writing home.

JIM ALBUS: It should be great.  All the top players, I'm happy to be up there because it's the top dogs this year that are right there.  I guess Nelson is having a hard week, but Irwin and Gil, right where you figure they would be.  So I'm glad to be with them and just give it a good go tomorrow.
Â  

Q.  Jim, when you had your injuries, the neck injury and the ankle injury, are you a better player now since then than you were say '94?

JIM ALBUS: No, I think I'm about back to where I was, though.  I don't think it's too much different.  I don't think I'm better.  It seemed to be a very easy year.  Everything came to me very easy that year.  I was in contention a lot.  I haven't really played very well this year, other than early on and then the last few weeks I played better.  So it wasn't a real good, consistent year the way it was in '94.  It seemed like '94 I was in contention practically every week.  This week is new to me.  It's been a while since I've been in the hunt.  But I'm close.  I think I'm close to being where I was, at least physically and playing.
Â  

Q.  Any memories walking with Floyd on 18?

JIM ALBUS: It was fun.  That hole we played so many times.  I played it six times in a row the last hole, and in the playoff.  I was thinking that going down the fairway.  It was a little weird.  He was walking up in front of me.  Only problem is the other guy that's walking with him, too, now.  A guy named Irwin, who is a major problem.

JIM ALBUS: Thanks.  Hope to see you guys tomorrow.
Â  

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT