FORD SENIOR PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
July 10, 1998
Jim Albus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JIM ALBUS:  Yeah, I am happy with that.  It doesn't look like much compared to the scores.  Guys are shooting some awful low scores which surprises me.  I guess it is about as easy it can play.  But I am still surprised the scores are as low as they are.  I played well.  For me I was happy.  I hit most of the greens and 3-putted one and made some nice putts.  So it was just a nice, solid round.  I just hope I can play like that for the next couple of days.  Maybe make a few more; get a few more in. 
 

Q.  The conditions are just about like they were yesterday?
 
JIM ALBUS:  No, there was a breeze.  It played a little bit shorter because you had to let the ball bounce a little bit so it played shorter and it was more comfortable too, never even sweated through this shirt today.  Yesterday was warm and muggy and hardly any run on the ball at all.  I think today might have been a little bit testier just with the breeze blowing, made some of the holes play a little more difficult.  But I think it is probably, two days, you know, probably about the easiest we can get on this golf course because it was -- the greens are holding and the wind wasn't real bad, so, just probably as tame as we are going to see. 
 

Q.  Jim, would you care to wager a guess on what the winning score would be?
 
JIM ALBUS:  Before the tournament started I would have bet anybody on 13-under, 14-under.  Now, you have to figure it is going to be 20.  Probably be up near 20 to win. 
 

Q.  69 you feel like you lost ground?
 
JIM ALBUS:  No, not really.  I played with two of the better players out here and they both were over par.  You look at just a couple of guys are way up there, but I think the rest of the field is a little more human.  But you wouldn't believe it, they tucked a couple of the pins in too that were hard to get at, up in the corners, by the water.  The scores are still pretty low.  With the good players it is very low, so.... 
 

Q.  Which pins are a little tougher?
 
JIM ALBUS:  17 was about eight feet from the water, you know, behind it and left of it both.  14, it was in the corner.  12, the other par 3, was tucked right against -- against right corner by the water.  
 

Q.  Several players had trouble at 14?
 
JIM ALBUS:  That is a hard hole no matter where they put it.  But when they stick the pin over to the left, it makes it -- especially if you are going to play it aggressively, it makes it, you know, a really hard hole. 
 

Q.  How would you assess your year so far?  You have won in Tampa.
 
JIM ALBUS:  Yeah, that was -- I struggled for a couple of years with some physical problems and so it was great to win early in the year.  Then for a couple of months after that, I played pretty badly.  I am not sure why.  But it was kind of a let-down.  So it has been kind of a mixed year.  When you win out here, you have to feel great, but as far as my consistency the rest of the year it has been -- not been good at all.  Until the last few weeks -- I have played better the last three weeks. 
 

Q.  Is it swing or physical again?
 
JIM ALBUS:  I have had some problems.  I have had a few problems physically, but I think mostly it has just been -- I don't think there is any real excuses with my health at this point the way it has been the last couple of years.  At this point I think I just have little nagging things that I think everybody out here has, you know, with this age group.  If you don't have an ache, there is something wrong with you.  None of mine at this point are real major. 
 

Q.  Why is this golf course such a good fit for you, you always seem to play well?
 
JIM ALBUS:  I think it is a good driving course.  It is not real narrow so you can use the driver.  I use the driver on almost all the holes.  But I think it is narrow enough so that it is a dividend to hit it in the fairway.  I think probably the next important thing is hitting good irons.  I think it is an iron-player's golf course probably more than anything else.  So many holes that are protected and you have to fly the ball.  You have to hit a solid shot because if you are just a little bit off, you are swimming. 
 

Q.  That is your strength when you are at the top of your game?
 
JIM ALBUS:  Yeah, I don't know if I have ever been a real good iron player, but when I am decent with the irons, I think I should play well here. 
 

Q.  It looks like Nicklaus is going to hang around the leaderboard onto the weekend.  Does anything that he does, does it surprise you guys anymore?
 
JIM ALBUS:  No, he is so good and, you know, he showed how good he is at The Masters this year.  He showed that, you know, with a little luck, you know, if he were up to it and really got his health going, you'd have to think he would still win on the other Tour.  So he comes out here,  nobody is surprised at all.  Plus this course, I think, really suits his game.  He hits high irons and soft irons which, I think, go real well around here. 
 

Q.  He had said yesterday and the day before that he would like to concentrate on the SENIOR TOUR a little bit more.  Can you just talk about how -- I guess how important that would be for the Tour and what that would mean to its success and visibility?
 
JIM ALBUS:  I hope that is true.  I hope that he does play because he is going to be one of the top draws if not the top-drawer.  Everyone loves to watch him play.  He would be a huge asset to the SENIOR TOUR.  He is in demand every week.  He is usually the one that people are questioning, the sponsors are all sending him flowers and chocolates and everything (laughter) because he really does add to the tournament.  I hope he plays even if it is a little money out of my pocket, I really do, I hope he plays a lot.  The way he is mumbling about his health - I guess he is coming in here in a minute you have to ask him - I don't think he plans on playing a lot.  Hopefully a little more on the SENIOR TOUR, but I don't think you are going to see him a lot. 
 
JIM ALBUS:  Birdied the first hole from about six feet. 
 
JIM ALBUS:  7-iron.  6, I hit it in there about three feet with a wedge, made it.  Bogey at 8, 3-putted from the apron.  My only glitch, I think.  13, I knocked it on in 2.  Hit it on with a 4-wood and 2-putted from about 20 feet.  17, I wedge in there about six feet made it. 
 
JIM ALBUS:  Made nice one on 7.  Only real bad drive was on the 7th hole.  I got it up-and-down on the bunker to save 5.  Other than that, I think it was all pretty routine. 
 
JIM ALBUS:  Thanks. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT