U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 3, 1994
Jim Albus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JIM ALBUS:  No, I don't think so.  I think -- not in my  case any way.  I don't think it did with Swampy (sic),  maybe with Simon a little bit.  We just didn't play so  well.  Maybe the old Esso tank came in or something, a  little tightness, a little -- you know, just wasn't the  same kind of golf.  I didn't play anywheres near as well,  and I know Simon didn't either.  It was like two  different people.  

JIM ALBUS:  Yeah, I screwed up a couple of holes early  on.  I missed the green twice just in the little valleys  that run off the greens, and I made a bogey.  I tried to  chip it and made a bogey with the -- first time tried to  putt it the first time, and made a bogey second time.  I  made a double bogey, I tried to chip it.  After putting  it so badly from that little area, I tried to chip it and  I ran it passed the hole and cut a little thing on the  other side of the green and it went down.  I turned it  into a double bogey; kind of put me behind the eight  ball.  That was on three and five, those too holes.  After, I had drawn even with Simon, he  was having a hard time also.  So, I guess the gremlins of  Pinehurst came out for us today.  


Q.  Talk about 16 also, because so many people  were making birdie there today and your tee shot, you are  talking about being behind the eight ball --  

JIM ALBUS:  At that point I still had a good chance  because I had a 3-iron to the green, had a decent ride on  the left rough and pulled it left, got into a bad lie  just off the green and didn't convert it into a birdie.  At that point, Graham and I were each one behind, and  they both birdied.  They both hit good shots up on the  green and I hit a poor iron, and I had a fairly easy  shot; didn't have a bad lie for my second shot.  But I  turned a birdie hole into a par that separated it two  shots.  Simon played well enough to win, that is  all that counts, you know, it wasn't as good a golf as he  had played, but he dug down and did what he had to do at  the end; that is the whole trick to winning a tournament  like this.  Just guts ball.  


Q.  Jim, on 15, that ball seemed to bounce real  high, rolled through the green and over the back.  Did  you have a semi-fly or something?  

JIM ALBUS:  15 is the par three-hole.  The 14th hole,  yeah, that was -- that was bad there because I hit my  best driver of the week and it was just an inch in the  rough.  I caught a flier and hit a 9-iron.  I hit 1 --  had 145 yards to the hole had a little 9-iron, didn't try  to hit it hard.  It just jumped and landed in the middle  of the green going right at the hole and ran off down the  slope, and then I hit a lucky chip shot up and missed a  short putt.  That was a bad one.  That was where Simon  was really having a hard time.  


Q.  How far was that par-putt that you missed  there?  

JIM ALBUS:  About four feet.  


Q.  Jim, did you and Simon talk at all during the  round, and what were you talking about; the caliber of  play or anything?  

JIM ALBUS:  He is always grumbling and mumbling, not  exactly conversation, but, you know, a lot of -- not a  lot of talk.  


Q.  This is your third straight runner-up final.  Is it getting frustrating?  

JIM ALBUS:  Yeah, you know, it leaves you with kind of an  empty feeling and it is hard to have -- no one is ever  going to feel sorry for me and I am not going to feel  sorry for myself because it is an awful nice reward for  second, but it really does leave you with a little bit of  an empty feeling in your stomach; nothing like winning.  And I am just going to have to try a little harder, I  guess.  


Q.  On the other hand, do you feel good for Simon?  

JIM ALBUS:  Yeah, you always -- I am not going to root  against him.  He played well for most of the week and  played good enough to win.  That is all that counts. He  shot a good score, 10 under; a good score, I think, on  this golf course even though it did play soft.  


Q.  Jim, now that it is over, you have been in  contention in a lot of other tournaments, how much  pressure is there really on a Sunday afternoon and one of  this magnitude?  

JIM ALBUS:  Yeah, it is -- no question, it is there and it  is a mind game.  I believe that is all something that you  just build up in your mind because there is a lot of  things going on in the world that are a lot more  meaningful than winning a golf tournament, and that is  the way I try and look at it.  Try and look at it in the  overall scheme; but it is there.  It gets all hyped up.  You fellows all help out with that, you know, and it is  great.  That is what makes it.  You know, that is what  made professional golf so good because it does get hyped  up, and people love it.  It is great drama, something I  guess everyone can relate to and it is tough.  Sunday  afternoon, the last 9, there is no question it is  tougher.  


Q.  You didn't have the benefit of any afternoon  rain like you did the last two days.  How much harder did  that make it to score today?  

JIM ALBUS:  It was -- I thought it played about the same.  They might have tucked the pins in a little bit more  today.  I think they had the corners of the greens going  pretty strong.  But the greens were still soft.  It had  rained enough all week so that the greens were still  holding.  From the fairway you could hold the ball quite  nicely.  From the rough you had to play a lot of run, and  which is good, that is the way it should be.  

JIM ALBUS:  Thanks.  Appreciate it.   


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT