U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 2, 1994
Jim Albus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JIM ALBUS:  Well, we got to play, anyway.  It was nice out  there once we finally got out there; it was nice.  Conducive to scoring again.  Although the scores aren't  that low, I am surprised again.  This old course seems to  hold up pretty well because it was nice; hardly any wind,  and greens were soft as can be and they are fairly  smooth, although, they got a little spiked up there.  There were a couple of things that looked like big old  teeth looking at you there.   
 

Q.  Yeah.  
 
JIM ALBUS:  I birdied the second hole from about eight  feet.  And the fourth hole I holed it from about  20 feet, 25 feet.  And the 7th hole I holed it from about  six feet.  We all birdied there.  All three of us  birdied that hole.  Pretty good hole too.  And then I birdied the last hole, the  13th hole.   
 
JIM ALBUS:  I snuck a bogey in there on the fifth hole  with a bad iron shot and a bad chip.  Simon played great,  putted well.  He putted really well and played well too,  so I talked to him.  If he plays like that I am going to  have to hole some putts.   
 
JIM ALBUS:  We were back and forth.  I birdied; then he  birdied; then it went back and forth.  He is three ahead  of me now, I think.  But it was fun.  We both had it  going pretty good.   
 

Q.  Did you talk to him much during the round?  What was his mood, he had such a long day?  
 
JIM ALBUS:  No, he is fine.  He always grumbles and  grumbles like this, (making grunting noise), but he is  fine.  He is a character.  Boy, he played well.  He  zinged that ball there, and putted well too.  Putted real  well.   
 

Q.  Was it about 5:20 by the time you teed off?  
 
JIM ALBUS:  Yeah, it was after five o'clock and we were  trying to figure out how many holes we would get in.  It  was a guessing game.  I figured, I think, we could still  be playing too.  I don't know why they quit quite so  early.  I didn't think we were going to finish, so it  didn't probably make a difference anyway.  Some groups  probably did, but we were going to go out there no matter  what.  But I think we still could be playing.   
 

Q.  What is your feeling on catching Simon in the  morning?  
 
JIM ALBUS:  I am playing well, so, I feel great out  there.  I love the way I feel.  I love the way I am  playing, so, if I can putt well, he is going to have to  play well, I think, to beat me.   
 

Q.  Did you guys talk among yourselves that you  were out playing the glamour group in front of you that  had all the people following you?  
 
JIM ALBUS:  Yeah, that is a fact, but no, we never said  anything about it.  That was a good group in front.  Hear  some yelling and screaming up there.   
 

Q.  Were you paying much attention to their  scores?  
 
JIM ALBUS:  No.  I saw a couple of leader boards.  It was  nice to see that nobody else seemed to be doing anything  great, and Simon actually opened up a pretty good gap  ahead of the field.  So that was nice to see.  I think I  started looking at it at the turn and nobody seemed to be  doing anything.  I don't know why.   
 

Q.  That was my question, the fact that the game  is in your court, it is right there with you tomorrow,  and as long as you guys can stay out front, does that  help?  
 
JIM ALBUS:  Yeah, we may be looking over our shoulder a  little bit.  (Hobday enters press room.) That Hobday is  something, holed every single putt.  It was  unbelieveable, every putt.   
 

Q.  Is it too early to declare it a two horse  race?  
 
JIM ALBUS:  Yeah, there is a lot of holes left.  Definitely don't want to start just thinking it is just  him and me.  There is a lot of guys out there that can  really play right behind us.  I am glad to see a big gap  there, but you know, it is still wide open.  Heck, we  still got 27 some odd holes to play.   
 

Q.  What time did you wake up this morning?  
 
JIM ALBUS:  I slept in.  I slept in until almost eight  o'clock which is great for me.  I slept like a rock.  Tomorrow, I guess we are going to play -- Simon, what  time do you get up?  I think tomorrow we go at 7:45, so  you get to sleep in tomorrow, Simon.   
 

Q.  Even though you were not on the tour, you have  been involved in golf all your life.  Tomorrow, I would  think it would be a very special day.  I mean, you are  going to be right there battling for the United States  Championship.  Can you talk about what it is like getting  to that point and having it within your grasp and what  that means to you?  
 
JIM ALBUS:  It's a great feeling.  It's the sort of thing  that you dream about, and I am going to try and emphasize  how wonderful it is after the tournament, and not get too  involved in it ahead of time.  Trevino was telling me  yesterday -- I was asking him while we were playing about  his U.S. Open wins, and he was saying that he got the  first one, I think, was at Oakland Hills -- no, Upstate  New York, at Oak Hill, and he said he got around to about  the 13th hole and he had the lead in the U.S. Open.  He  said he never choked so much in his life.  He saw he had  this lead with five holes to go, you don't picture that,  you know, that-- Trevino doing that, but he said he just  choked his ars (sic) off.  But I don't think -- just try  not to pay attention to it.  I will just play hard and as  good as I can and not get too involved with things.   
 

Q.  Have you ever teed off much later to start a  round?  
 
JIM ALBUS:  No, it is the latest.  That reminded we when I  was learning how to play; we used to do that.  We used to  play till dark and you needed flash lights to get in.  That is about as late as it gets. .   
 

Q.  You said Simon was a character.  Can you  elaborate?  Have you ever been fishing with him?  
 
JIM ALBUS:  I watched Simon.  We had-- during a tournament  in San Antonio, they had special olympics kids over there  on the side and they had brought them over to fish.  They  brought us all over to introduce us to them, when we were  playing, and Simon took the pole -- the fishing pole from  the one kid and threw it in the water and right away  reeled it right in.  He could fish.  He fishes much  better than he putts.   
 

Q.  Did you work out a lot this week as you  normally do?  
 
JIM ALBUS:  No, it has been a slow week.  I have had these  late tee times, you know, all the mess and everything, it  got me way off that schedule.  So, it has been a nice  lazy kind of a week, loafing around; plus I never found a  real good gym.   
 

Q.  What is your normal routine?  
 
JIM ALBUS:  I usually work out for 45 minutes or so in the  evening; get on the bike.  I ride the bike and lift some  weights and do whatever is available at that particular  gym, but I usually find one and I try and work out 45  minutes, five nights a week, five or six nights a week.   
 

Q.  Is Simon usually there?  
 
JIM ALBUS:  Simon is usually next door at the pub.  I  usually can hear him through the walls in the next door  pub.  He is lifting too, you know.  See you tomorrow.   
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT