U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 1, 1994
Jim Albus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JIM ALBUS:  I sat around and listened to my wife gripe.  We just sat around and had a little lunch and tried to  relax.  It wasn't bad.  

JIM ALBUS:  Yeah, I got frustrated because I played pretty  -- I had a lot of chances and couldn't get one in.  I  just couldn't squeeze one in.  If I get it on the line,  it was short.  I hit it off to the side a couple of  times, so it was frustrating and I had good honest  chances on a lot of holes.  But, then I finally snuck one  in.  I hit two nice shots just off the edge on 16 and hit  a bad chip; had a simple little chip shot and hit it  badly and holed the putt for the first one, that I holed  all day.  

JIM ALBUS:  Well, I don't think it is a big deal.  It is  something that just makes the day a little less pleasant,  that is all.  But, I don't think it is a big deal.  It is  nice to have waited.  I am glad that I don't have to do  it.  I think I would be up at that time anyway.  I am an  early riser, but it is nice to not have to come over and  then go back and do your thing.  You know, and it just,  sort of, makes it not so nice.  So I am sure Simon is  pulling his teeth out, pulling his hair out.  


Q.  Jim, birdie putt on 16 and on 17.  

JIM ALBUS:  Yeah, I hit a bad chip shot about 18 feet, 19  feet on 16 and made it.  And then hit it in about 12 feet  on 17 made it.  So I got my two big putts near the end,  so I feel better about it.  


Q.  What is going through your mind when you were  going around like 10, 11, 12, 13, you missed some really  makeable birds.  Did you start to get a little ticked off  or did you --  

JIM ALBUS:  No, I think you have to be patient, so I don't  get mad so much as I do -- maybe sometimes I get  frustrated and impatient and start, you know, hitting  them too hard, trying to make them so badly and then I  have to talk to myself and I got my resident psychiatrist  with me there, my son, you know, who is good at that,  telling me to just be patient; and you see that nobody is  doing real well.  The other guys were screwing up too.  Trevino missed a lot of little chances and so it is not  just me and I just have to be patient, keep telling  myself to be patient; you are in a good spot and they  will fall, keep hitting them.  


Q.  Is it frustrating or inspiring knowing that  you could have the lead had you putted a little better?  

JIM ALBUS:  No, I think that is good.  I will putt a lot  better if I have a good day; I can shoot a lower score  and I am playing well, so that is, you know, it is not,  at all.  I think I would have been very frustrated if I  hadn't snuck a couple of them in at the end; if it would  have been a complete shutout, I would have really been  frustrated but I got a couple in at the end and I am  happy with that.  So 69 is not so terrible out there.  


Q.  Talk about the course conditions afterward,  was it easier?  

JIM ALBUS:  Yeah.  Again, it was like yesterday.  I didn't  think it played hard at all.  I think it probably was to  our advantage playing yesterday in the morning when it  was soft and then coming out in the afternoon and you  know, having that downpour made it soft again.  We  probably had a little bit of, I think, an edge on the  guys that played on the opposite time.  


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT