U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 30, 1994
Jim Albus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JIM ALBUS:  I had a bogey.  One bogey.  I bogeyed 6, with 2 good shots that  released off the back into one of the little Pinehurst  hollows and so was one over; then I birdied 7 and 8.  7  from about 5 feet and 8 from about 20 feet.  


Q.  What did you hit?  

JIM ALBUS:  I hit-- on the par 3 I hit a 3-iron, a 4-iron   -- excuse me, hit a 4-iron on 7 -- on 6 to about 5 feet,  and then I hit an 8-iron to 20 feet on 7 and holed it.  I birdied 9 from about 5 feet.  I hit an  8-iron on the par 3.  And I birdied 12 from about 3 feet and 13  from about six feet.  


Q.  What did you hit?  

JIM ALBUS:  At 12, I hit an 8-iron.  On 13, I hit a 9-iron.  On 15, I had about 8 foot eagle putt.  I  2-putted for about 8 feet for birdie on 15.  That was  it.  I that was 16, excuse me.  

JIM ALBUS:  Right.  Yeah, I bogeyed 6 and then played  under from there, right.  I had some chances.  


Q.  Did you bogey 5?  

JIM ALBUS:  I played well.  I bogeyed the fifth hole.  


Q.  Was there something early in your round that  made you say, hey, I got a good one going here, I can  feel it, something happen where it turned you on?  

JIM ALBUS:  Not really.  I bogeyed the fifth and I wasn't  very happy because I hit two good shots.  2 -- probably  the two best shots I hit all day and wound up with a  bogey.  I wasn't happy about that.  But then I hit good shots on the next  couple of holes and got them in.  Once I made a couple of  putts I felt like I was going to do good.  But I played  well.  I have been playing well, and I hit the ball well  again.  I had a lot of chances on a lot of holes  and that is all you can ask for out here.  It didn't play  very tough.  I am surprised the scores aren't lower, to  tell you the truth, because it is not playing hard.  The  greens are soft and not very fast, and I think that is  the main thing that they have here right now.  The  fairways are not real narrow.  They are generous with the  fairways, wider.  As wide as any Open I have ever played  in.  It is in beautiful shape too.  I am surprised  the scores aren't lower.  


Q.  Notice any difference on the front nine with  the greens; front or back nine?  

JIM ALBUS:  No.  I didn't notice a difference, no.  Some  of the fellows were complaining about that?  


Q.  No, they were just saying they were faster on  the back side because the sun came.  

JIM ALBUS:  Could be.  I didn't notice it.  I know I left  a lot of them short on both nines, so...  


Q.  Trevino was just talking about how well you  drove the golf ball today, never got yourself -- could  you elaborate on that a little bit about how you got  yourself in position?  

JIM ALBUS:  I missed the second fairway, just one, and had  a lie in the fairway.  So even that was fine.  So I was  in position to play all day and that is always the key  when you are playing in an Open or on a difficult golf  course, I think, driving the ball down the fairways;  number one priority.  And so far so good for me.  


Q.  Also, when you were listing the clubs you hit  in, you list a lot of 8 and 9-irons.  Can you drive a  ball a lot longer?  Can you talk about your length?  Are  you one of the longer hitters on this tour?  

JIM ALBUS:  It keeps statistics on that, so you can't  lie.  You can't bluff through that.  But I am longer than  average; there is a couple of fellows that hit it  significantly longer than me.  Dent is in a class by  himself and Terry Dill, I think, is quite a bit longer.  Other than that, I am up there with the rest of them.  Further than the other guys.  


Q.  How much of an advantage this week; the fact  that some people have said they were playing this course  back a little further?  

JIM ALBUS:  Yeah, it is always an advantage that I think  is a minor advantage compared to hitting it in the  fairway and hitting the ball in close and putting it  good; length is a nice thing to have, but it is a minor  advantage.  That is the way I have always looked at it;  much rather hit it down the fairway.  It is really true  in Opens.  


Q.  Trevino also said that you have been playing  well, you have just been unlucky.  Could you talk about  that?  Do you feel unlucky?  

JIM ALBUS:  No, not at all.  I feel lucky, in fact.  I  have had good bounces and I don't feel that way at all.  I think what he means is that there is  somebody else that has played a little better each week.  I have played the last four weeks.  I think I am 50 some  odd under par and haven't won a tournament in the month,  so someone each week has just shot lower than me; if that  is being unlucky -- somebody is just playing a little  better, is all it is.  


Q.  Jim, you have played the Senior Open now --  this is your fifth Senior Open now?  

JIM ALBUS:  Fourth.  I think it is the fourth.  I might be  wrong.  


Q.  You already have 16 rounds and you never broke  par but once, and today you break it and you break it  magnificently.  Are you playing in a zone?  Do you feel  like you are in a zone of your own?  

JIM ALBUS:  I am playing well, obviously.  This past month  has been good golf for me.  I am shooting a lot of low  scores and, but that is pretty bad.  Was I that bad,  really?  God, God.  

JIM ALBUS:  No, that is right.  Boy did I stink?  Geez.  


Q.  All this is forgiven with the 66.  

LES UNGER:  Another question?  


Q.  Ernie Els won the Open two weeks ago --  

JIM ALBUS:  I don't know Mr. Els.  I heard he has got a  bright future, though, that is what everybody says.  You  know, as far as wondering why I haven't done well before,  I have played in a lot of regular U.S. Opens too with not  a lot of success.  I made the cut and played decently at  Winged Foot in 84, I think it was.  And I always thought  I was a good driver of the ball, but I think in the Open,  you have to be a very straight driver.  I think this  course they are more generous off the tee.  So I think  that would account for maybe you know, letting some  people play that -- some of the opens they bring the  fairways in very, very narrow and the rough very, very  high and I don't think that is the case here.  I think it  is quite generous.  Plus when they are soft like this, it  makes them that much wider because the ball is not  bouncing and it make the fairways even wider.  


Q.  Does it keep you relaxed playing with Trevino?  

JIM ALBUS:  Yeah, I like to play with him.  He never stops  talking.  You know, it is really something, and the first  tournament I would won, I was paired with him and I think  it helped me.  I was nervous and I think he relaxes you.  I think he talks, you know, the motor mouth, I think is  to make himself relaxed.  I think the more nervous he  gets, the more he talks, I notice.  It doesn't make any  difference who it is, he will talk to you.  But he is  great to play with.  


Q.  Could you talk about being a club pro; do you  feel you have that segment rooting for you?  

JIM ALBUS:  I hope so.  I get that kind of feedback.  I  get an awful lot of people shaking hands and coming up  saying they relate to me and they'd like to be doing it  or they hope to be doing it or something they can do, I  hope that is true and I sure get a lot of, you know, get  a lot of relationships with guys that are, you know, in  that profession, sure.  


Q.  As a followup, when Laoretti won in 1992, did  you kind of say, well, that, gee, that Laoretti won in  1992, did you feel like, you know, it was a victory for  club pros and maybe that could be you some day?  

JIM ALBUS:  Well, I won a major tournament before him.  So  it was sort of-- we were parallel in that respect and  same with Wargo, you know, it is nice.  It is just -- it  goes to show you that there are other guys out there  aside from-- aside from Trevino and Nicklaus, and maybe  also it gives a little bit more respect to the club  pros.  That part of it, I am proud of.  


Q.  Jim, you led the way more-- 1991 you won-- you  won the Players Championship there in Dearborn; you won  it probably under the most trying conditions because if I  remember correctly, you told me that your club would not  give you permission to come and play and your job was in  jeopardy but, hell, you came and play won?  

JIM ALBUS:  That is not true.  They were very supportive.  The tour was giving me a hard time about it; not my club,  the club was very supportive.  In fact, I almost stayed  at the club and they wanted me to stay and play you know,  a part-time -- fairly full-time schedule, but no, I had  no problem with my club at all.  The tour gave me a hard time about it  because I hadn't committed in time and they have a  commitment deadline I hadn't committed for the Dearborn  tournament and then the week before, I won enough money  to become exempt and then they changed it and let me come  and play.  You know, because I wasn't eligible when I was  supposed to commit.  I wasn't exempt and so you know,  they made an exception and let me come and play.  They  knew I couldn't win anyway so they made me come and  play.  Here we go.  


Q.  Have you ever played here at Pinehurst?  

JIM ALBUS:  I played a club pro championship here around  1985, 1986 sometime around there, and didn't do well.  Must have been playing badly because I remember it being  much harder than it being now.  I remember I was spraying  the ball a bit.  I remember it being narrow and it is not  that narrow now.  


Q.  What is your impression of 2?  

JIM ALBUS:  I think it is a wonderful golf course.  I  think it is beautiful.  If you don't like this golf  course, you don't like golf.  It is just beautiful.  Nothing fancy; nothing tricky, it is all right in front  of you.  I guess I shouldn't say that because the greens  are tricky.  I think there are spots on the green where  the ball runs away, and can get away from you, but I  think it is a wonderful golf course.  


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT