U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 29, 1994
Jim Albus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JIM ALBUS:  Oh, come on.  Those guys are just blowing some smoke.  You know, Trevino likes to, I think -- maybe he has been  smoking that funny weed.   
 
JIM ALBUS:  I think they sometimes divert attention from  themselves. They are sticking a little zinger on me  because rather than have everything pointed at them.   
 
JIM ALBUS:  Yeah.  I have been playing well.  I am happy  as can be with my golf and with my chances, but I have  played well the last few weeks, especially, and haven't  won; somebody has managed to come in ahead, so that is  the only thing that is a little bit spooky with me.   
 
JIM ALBUS:  I just played here once in a tournament and  didn't do well.  I played in a club pro championship  about 10 or 11 years ago, I think it was, and didn't have  a good experience with it.  And, in fact, I remembered it  being a real narrow golf course.  I played it yesterday.  I was surprised it is not that narrow.  I think when I  played here before, I was not hitting it too straight or  not hitting it too good because it is not the way I  remember the golf course.  So, I hope to do better this time.   
 
JIM ALBUS:  Yeah, it made my banker happier.  I don't know  about my wife, but my banker is definitely happier.  And  I had mixed feelings because I was at a nice club, and  had a nice job in New York, and I wasn't looking to  leave.  I was planning on playing part-time; playing a  fairly full/part time sort a thing and stay at the club.  And after I won the TPC championship in 1991, and I sat  and watched a tape the week afterwards when I was still  thinking I was going to play part-time, I was watching  the tape of the show and as I was coming down the  stretch, the English announcer was asking Deane Beman,  the commissioner, what this would mean if this club pro  could hang on and win this tournament?  What would it  mean in terms of an exemption?  And Beman said something  like, well - we will see.  So they didn't know.  They  basically didn't have that set up at that point because,  I guess, most of the people that had won the big  tournaments were the big shots, so the exemption wasn't  at issue.  And so anyway, they got back to me, it was  just a one-year exemption, not even a one-year exemption  because it just went to next year's TPC.  So for me to  stay exempt, I had to finish in the top 30 money winners  that year in order to be exempt the next year.  So, I  figured I should do it full-time and that sort of pushed  me to make up my mind.  So they did me a favor, they made  me leave my job and go full-time on tour.   
 

Q.  Jim, as Les pointed out almost to a man, all  the so-called "top dogs" have included you in, like, the  pre-race favorite.  Two part question, please.  Does this put  a little undue pressure on you even though you know they  may be doing it to divert attention, and do you have the  game now that is suited for Pinehurst?  
 
JIM ALBUS:  I hope so.  I have played -- seem to play my  best golf on the better courses.  I think the Michigan  Tournament where I won and where I finished second last  week is probably the toughest course that we play.  So, I know that I prefer to play the  better courses and the tougher courses, and I seem to  contend more in those.  So I hope so.  And I think they are  giving me this business because I have played with them  the last few weeks when I have been in contention even  though I haven't won.  At least I have been in contention  and pushed them, at least, a little bit.  But the real  favorites have to be the three fellows; Stockton, who has  played so well the last couple of weeks, and Trevino and  Floyd.  No question, they are the favorites.  And if I  can just get mentioned in the same breath as those guys,  that makes me real happy, you know.  So, you look on the money list, it is  real evident on the money list and the stat sheets,  probably too, will bring it out.  That is the way it is  ranked right now I am fortunate to be fourth and those  three fellows are all ahead of me.  The three of them are  in contention every tournament they play, it seems like,  especially Floyd and Trevino.   
 

Q.  What about Jack Nicklaus?  
 
JIM ALBUS:  Jack is always going to be good.  It is hard  to get a fix on him because he hasn't played that much  out here.  It is hard to figure.  But you know how great  he is. You have to figure, he is going to be there also,  especially on a good golf course.  It is funny too, the  only time that Stockton has backed away, in fact, it was  something because last week I was paired with him the  last round and he is leading the tournament by 50 over  me, and I birdied the first two holes and all he did was  just make a bunch of birdies and ran away with the  tournament from there.  Last January, Nicklaus is on his  tail and he shot 40 the last 9.  The only time he has  done that.  He did that for Jack but he wouldn't do it  for anybody else.   
 

Q.  Would you be more surprised to see a club pro  come out of the pack here and win at Pinehurst rather  than someplace else?  
 
JIM ALBUS:  I think there are a few guys that can do  that.  I think there are some good players, but again,  these guys that are so good, and week after week play so  well, that you have to figure the guys are going to be  there.   
 
JIM ALBUS:  I don't know if I hit the ball any better or  putt any better, but I think I probably am more  comfortable with it.  You know, that is the only thing  that is real different.  I did fairly well right away  when I come out here, so I knew I could play.  But I  think I am much more comfortable now than I was back  then, you know, just I didn't know a lot of the guys and  you have expectations for yourself, but it is a little  bit uneasy just the newness of it all, and I think that  is really the thing that is different.  That, and the  fact that when you are playing golf everyday, I think you  get it in the hole better.  I think that you can take a  monkey and that would be the case.  If you just do  something that much, you are going to -- you are just  going to miss the green and make more pars.  If you are  doing it everyday, all day -- you know, it is a full-time  job for me now, and I think it has helped in that  respect.   
 
JIM ALBUS:  Yeah, exactly.  Over the years you build up --  you see these fellows playing and it took awhile to get  comfortable with all of that.   
 

Q.  Jim, in the Players Championship that you won,  did you qualify for that at Sleepy Hollow?  
 
JIM ALBUS:  Yeah.   
 

Q.  You made enough money there?  
 
JIM ALBUS:  Yeah. The week before, I wasn't exempt.  In  fact, that got to be a chain of events that is one of  those fickle finger of faith type things because I had to  qualify on Monday to get into Sleepy Hollow, and I did,  and I was -- I missed in a playoff.  I lost out in a  playoff to get into the tournament direct and I was  second alternate, and they took a whole bunch of  alternates, as it turned out, and I was the second  alternate after that.  And as it turned out, two guys  didn't show up, so I was the last minute guy to get in  and I shot 64 -- 63 or 64 the last round to win enough  money.  I think I won $12,000 which got me into the  Detroit Tournament the next week.  They go strictly off  the money list to get into the Detroit Tournament, the  TPC Championship.  And I was all excited because someone  said you are in next week now.  I didn't even know  anything about it.  And so I went into tell them yeah, I  am here, here I come, and he says no, you didn't register  in time and he said you can't get in.  So I was  disappointed and told him, gee, I wasn't exempt last week  so I had no thoughts about my commitment or anything, and  they said well, we will have to have a meeting about it,  and they called Beman in on it and they wound up -- they  had already told Bert Yancey and the other fellows that  they were in, so my jumping up actually put him out after  he was told that he was in.  And it was talk apparently  about lawsuits and stuff, so they said well, we are not  going to have any of that lawsuit stuff so they added  three people to the field to make everybody happy, and  that is how I got in the tournament.   
 

Q.  T.V. people made a big deal about you being  such a big powerful man griping the club loosely.  Are  you cognisant of that?  
 
JIM ALBUS:  How does he know that?  Last week, you mean,  this past week?   
 

Q.  Yeah.  
 
JIM ALBUS:  I didn't see that.  No, I wonder how he would  know that.  I sort of hold it, what I would think, is a  medium pressure, so I guess he could see that.  I don't  try and hold it real tight.  I try and hold it real  medium.   
 

Q.  Some of the other Senior Majors have been  between you TPC, Tom Wargo, what is it about this  tournament that so far has prevented that from happening?  
 
JIM ALBUS:  Larry it here two years ago, so it has  happened actually in all three of the Majors that we  have.  Wargo was the PGA and I was the TPC and Laoretti  was the U.S. Open, so it can happen anywhere.   
 

Q.  I noticed that like today you played with Bob  Housen, Jim Patti.  Have you kind of made yourself  available to be the guru for some of the other club  professionals that are kind of seeking your Cinderella  story?  
 
JIM ALBUS:  I am still a club pro at heart and I am happy  to do whatever I can for those guys - anybody who wants  it.  That just happened.  I know Bob for a long time;  although we haven't played together.  He is from back  there and I read all his press clippings back in the  Metropolitan area.  He is one of the good amateur players  in the Met area and he is a good player.  And I played  with Mike Joyce usually because we were buddies from Long  Island.  He is a club pro that won out here.  He won a  regular tour event.  You don't hear so much about it  because it wasn't a major, now he has struggled for the  last couple of years.  He is back, qualified.  Mike Joyce  and I play together a lot.   
 

Q.  Is that true that you played every round of  every event in 1992 and how did you feel after it was  over?  
 
JIM ALBUS:  I felt great.  It was great.  I was knew to  me.  A lot of guys could never imagine doing that because  when you have done it for 30 years that would be  something that you would never imagine doing but it was  new to me.  It was all new courses and again, the money  was part of it because I wanted to stay exempt so I have  planned on playing a lot just to make sure I stayed in  the top 30 money winners and I felt fine at the end of  the year.  It wasn't hard to do at all.  I love to  play golf.  Nobody loves golf anymore than me when I go  home and I just play anyway, so I might as well play for  some good money and a good competition.  I took some  breaks last year.  That was my first full year I did  that.  And last year after I got ahead of the top 30 and  felt comfortable with that, I took a couple of breaks.  And I think you know, there was a big deal made out of  the iron man, but I think Rocky Thompson is the one that  has played the longest stretch; I think he went 50 some  odd tournaments or something like that without missing a  tournament.  So I am not as iron man as you think.   
 

Q.  Talking about the dominance of the three  fellows as you called them.  Does it get frustrating for  the other guys or what is the attitude among them?  
 
JIM ALBUS:  I think in everything you do there is always  some petty jealousy and-- but it is always going to be--  you are always going to have somebody that is better.  You are always going to have a small group of players  that are better, and I think it is great because it just  gives us a little more you know, desire; a little more--  we need to push a little more if you want to get up there  and play with them, compete with them, successfully.  But there is always -- always jealousy.  You can see that even from your peers and even guys that  are your friends.  I remember a friend of mine who wrote  a book told me that.  He said there is an old cliche that  there is no greater kick in the ass than your best  friend's good fortune.  He swore that was true.  I don't  know if that would be true if I can get Mike Joyce to  play better; nothing would make me happier, but there  probably is some truth.  There is a petty jealously in  everything, in every business, every kind of thing that  we do; especially when money is involved.   
 

Q.  Raymond Floyd, has that been a big boost?  
 
JIM ALBUS:  Good for the tour, yeah, great to have someone  like Raymond.  He is a good guy and he is just a great  player and it gives that much more credence, I think, to  the tour.  You know, he can compete on either tour and  here he is not winning every week out here.  He has got  to be one of the top players, but he is not winning every  week, so it says something.  Shows you how competitive it  is out here, tell you that.   
 
JIM ALBUS:  Thanks, guys.   
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT