JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 9, 2004
Jose Coceres
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
Is the stop and start a problem for you?
JOSE COCERES:  It's not easy for any player, but you just have to accept it.  That's just the natural way of the weather, of nature.
Q.  What part of your game is working particularly well for you this week?  What is the best thing that you're doing?
JOSE COCERES:  I feel that I'm doing everything very well, and me and my caddie are concentrating very well on working together.
Q.  Teeing off a lot later today didn't bother you?
JOSE COCERES:  It wasn't a problem at all because I was in my hotel room, so I was able to stay there and rest two more hours, but I feel like those three hours, I'm going to have to pay for them tomorrow.
Q.  At your age you said you couldn't walk 37 kilometers to a shrine yesterday.  Can you play 27 holes tomorrow?
JOSE COCERES:  Not at all because it's not 36 kilometers, it's only about 12 kilometers, and I feel that I'm in good shape.  I'm 40, but I'm a good 40.
Q.  12 kilometers tomorrow?
JOSE COCERES:  That was an estimate I made of what I think 27 holes is.  I think 27 holes is about 12 kilometers.
Q.  You're in good shape now?
JOSE COCERES:  Yeah, I am in good shape.  That's what my girlfriend says.  The reason I say that is because I like to make people laugh.
Q.  Is there something about this golf course that suits your eye, your game?
JOSE COCERES:  What I like about it is Jose Coceres is playing very well.
Q.  Does it suit -- do you like the way it looks?  Does it fit your eye?
JOSE COCERES:  Yeah, I think it's in great shape.  That's what I like about it.  I hope tomorrow it stays in this good of shape so I have a good weekend.
Q.  Do you feel like there's any advantage getting to come out tomorrow morning and finish the second round as opposed to finishing the round this afternoon?
JOSE COCERES:  It was very important to me to finish today, but that's just the way it is.  Sometimes I've gotten to finish other times and other guys haven't, so it's just my turn like anybody else.  You have to be ready and in form to have to do that.
Q.  They say it's difficult to follow a real low round with a good round.  How do you feel about the way you have played so far this round?
JOSE COCERES:  I feel that I'm playing very well, and the course is harder today, more difficult, because of the rain.  It's more difficult but I'm playing really well and concentrating very well, and I'm still leading, so I'm comfortable.
Q.  Why is the course playing more difficult?
JOSE COCERES:  Were you here this morning?  You didn't see the rain?  Maybe you stay here, put on the jacket, don't go outside (laughter).
Q.  Did it just make the course play longer then?
JOSE COCERES:  It's more long for the ball on the front.  It didn't roll.
Q.  Is that a challenge for you, especially because you're not as long as some of the other players?
JOSE COCERES:  Yeah, it's very important to me to get as much roll as possible because I don't hit it as far as other players.  Maybe the ball on the front stays more near the hole.  But I'm all right with it because I'm playing well, hitting it well.
Q.  Were the greens totally different between yesterday and today then because of the rain?
JOSE COCERES:  Yes, it's different because I play today in the afternoon too late, maybe 3:00 o'clock, 3:10 maybe, I don't remember exactly.  It's more long the greens, the water in the afternoon, too many players walking on the green.  It's different from yesterday playing in the morning and today in the afternoon.  Sorry about my English.

Maybe talking for the golf, no problem.  Maybe need for talking about my family or anything, it's different.

Nice picture of my caddie, very nice (laughter).  It's Tommy, my caddie, very good.
Q.  When is the last time you led after 36 holes and are you comfortable -- going into Saturday are you comfortable with your position?
JOSE COCERES:  Yeah, the last time was at Disney, and I had a tough -- I had to beat Davis Love but I beat him and I won, and for this tournament I feel great.

The most important thing right now is that in my mind I'm doing very well.  I'm thinking very well, and I'm ready to -- I really want to have a good tournament.  I'm ready to have a good tournament.
Q.  Where is your good play coming from?  You have not been playing well this year.
JOSE COCERES:  I had some family problems that I've started to accept, and also I've been hitting the ball very well, and me and my manager have been talking and we were expecting a great round to tomorrow, and it happened yesterday.  Now because I've accepted and dealt with my family problems, now I'm concentrating much better.
Q.  Have you found any Argentines in the Quad Cities and where are you eating?  Are you feeling at home?
JOSE COCERES:  Well, some people out on the course have said hello to me.  I said hello to them in Spanish.  Also I've been eating at this restaurant near the hotel.  My hotel is near the casino, I'm not eating in the casino (laughter).  I feel good here, but I don't feel at home.  My home is Argentina, but I've got good friends on Tour, so I'm happy.

JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Jose, are you eating at the same restaurant every night this week just like when you won at the MCI?
JOSE COCERES:  Yeah, it's the only one around (laughter).
Q.  Is it Farraday's with the parrot?
JOSE COCERES:  Yes.
Q.  Yesterday we saw you on TV and you were able to make some short statements in English and actually your English wasn't so bad.  Would you feel comfortable making a short statement about your round in English today?
JOSE COCERES:  I can answer questions, but the hard thing for me is to understand what you're saying, so that's why I like to deal with him a lot.  I want to make sure I know what I'm being asked.
Q.  Just overall about your round.
JOSE COCERES:  I am Jose Coceres.  I'm very happy for stay here.  This is my second time for stay here together.  Yesterday I played very good, 9 under for my score, very happy for my score.  Maybe too many people very happy for 9 under in one day.  Very happy for today because today no easy for the score.  Yesterday and today it change the course and now it's more long, too windy, too many different for yesterday and today.  Thank you very much.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT