MICHELOB CHAMPIONSHIP AT KINGSMILL
October 6, 2001
Jose Coceres
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOSE COCERES:  Yes. 

JOSE COCERES:  It was a difficult start.  I played with a lot of wind and sometimes it is difficult starting off with wind and rain.  First place it has been quite a few months since I have played with wind and rain.  I came up with an up-and-down on the 2nd hole; that gave me a little bit of confidence and it helped quite a bit of birdie on the 4th hole.  That helped quite a bit for a hard day to get to 1-under and start off a good round.  From that point on the 8th hole I was lucky enough to make an up-and-down.  It was unplayable and it was almost unplayable in the rough, I couldn't even see the ball.  But that was a good hole. 

Q.  How far was the putt there on 8?

JOSE COCERES: I could barely see the ball.  It was very deep in the rough and I left it almost  -- it was a gimme but it was more of a bogey-looking hole than a birdie-looking hole.  You couldn't even see the ball. Played 9 with a very good drive and a 7-iron, left it about three feet.   Up a down on the 10th hole - playing against the wind.  The course was playing very long at that point did  -- 21, 24 feet, somewhere in there.  Then I had a chance on 13, 14 little bit longer putt.  15 I had a 5-wood in and I 2-putted.  16 I had about a six and a half-footer and I didn't convert and 17 again and I didn't convert.  And two putts on 18 which was fine.  I was playing with a lot of confidence.  I am hitting the ball very well.  The putter is playing very well also.  I wait for next day tomorrow.

Q.  You won the Heineken Open in 1994, so you like tournaments with beer sponsors?

JOSE COCERES: I drink beer. I like beer but not too much I drink wine, good wine.  My manager Roberto is looking for the name for the wine for here. 

ROBERT GUTIERREZ: I look for the American wines; he looks for the Argentine wines.

Q.  How much confidence did you derive from Hilton Head?

JOSE COCERES: After winning Hilton Head I lost a little bit of my game.  And now I felt very well.  Now I am feeling very good and I played well yesterday.  I played well today.  And I played both days with different sensations from the time I was playing in Hilton Head.  So I feel I am getting my game back a little bit.

Q.  Knowing that you can win, so many people that are on leaderboard  (inaudible) -- you do know you can win.  Will you have a different feeling tomorrow?

JOSE COCERES: I think that I have lot of confidence but there's a lot of great players that are 5-, 6-under and I think that they have a chance as well.  I think that when you are in very Top 5 or maybe leader you also have a good chance of winning.

Q.  How difficult was the weather?

JOSE COCERES: Well we started a little bit  -- we started a little bit later so that helped quite a bit.  But really strong weather was the first, 2nd and 3rd hole and the fourth it was starting to get a little bit better.  The wind -- we were playing with the wind -- within the trees and below the wind and it wasn't much of a factor and it helped quite a bit.  After that it became a normal tournament, but, sometimes on a course where the wind acts a little bit  -- it doesn't come straight at you, it shifts quite a bit, swirls quite a bit.

Q.  What hole were you on when it more or less stopped raining?

JOSE COCERES: I think it was about the 12th hole when it really stopped.  Before that it was misty and rainy and 13 was no wind and clear and 14th no wind at all.  Very little wind.

Q.  Are you feeling more comfortable now here on the Tour having won and, just do you feel more comfortable playing here?

JOSE COCERES: Yeah, I think I am 100% I am playing on the U.S. tour so I feel a little bit more comfortable.  I can concentrate on my game. This year I was about to complete both Tour cards, but I don't think I will be able to based on the remaining schedule.  Now I have to concentrate basically 100% over here.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT