WORLDCOM CLASSIC--THE HERITAGE OF GOLF
April 15, 2001
Jose Coceres
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOSE COCERES: I never thought that I would be this popular with the public, they have been great.  I have been very happy with the way the public has treated me and I thank them for the support and the strength that they have given me, and they have cheered me on quite a bit today.  I am happy that I can respond, and I thank everyone.  
 
Q.  Jose, it was kind of a wild round out there.  You were hot, then you got cold a little bit.  How did you keep it all together?
 
JOSE COCERES: It was the first few holes I played very well until the 5th hole.  I think what slowed me down was the 3-putt on the 6th hole.  That is where I lost a little bit of confidence because on the 7th hole I made a mistake or I missed a putt, an easy putt, a very beautiful putt to make a birdie and go into first, but from there on I lost a little confidence.  But thank God I could come back.  That helped quite a bit to finish where I am today  -- where I am at right now.  
 
Q.  Was Billy Mayfair willing to continue playing?
 
JOSE COCERES: I think that.  I think that on the par 3, 17, which was the second playoff hole, he didn't see it very well, and for me it is the same.  It was either one of us were going to be the winner, so it really didn't matter to stay.  I had no problem suspending it for today.  
 
Q.  How will you feel -- how will you handle things tonight knowing that you could come back for only a few minutes tomorrow?
 
JOSE COCERES: I am very happy because let's say in the instance that I know I have a chance to win; second place is a very good start also - helps me start this new Tour and really it has been a great  -- it is very important to play here and on the other side, if I end up winning everything, it is great and we are always going to try to go to first place. 
 
Q.  Does that mean that you will use your status to stay on the PGA TOUR?
 
JOSE COCERES: Yes, I'd like to keep on going obviously on this Tour.  I have noticed I can after this week -- I know that I can work hard and stay on this Tour where the players are   -- where there is a lot of high quality players and I can sort of maintain myself with them. 
 
Q.  Did you lose confidence at any point when you missed the short putts?
 
JOSE COCERES: Yes, I think after the 6th hole I lost a little bit of confidence I had in my putting, but in the same way, I am happy with the way I putted yesterday, so I can't really  -- I can't reproach myself for the way I played today.  So either way I am very happy. 
 
Q.  How difficult were those two putts that you had to make in the playoff after missing some putts early?
 
JOSE COCERES: First of all, you play much more comfortably because you are sure of either first or second place, and the only thing you are fighting for is first.  The first playoff hole on 18, I hit a very good second shot but unfortunately, it didn't stop - about three feet short, but I went past a little bit.  The shot was very good and on 17, the same thing, I played everything all or nothing at all, and it stayed a little bit short.  Let's hope that the third time is a charm. 
 
Q.  Were you surprised at how poorly or erratically Vijay played out there today?
 
JOSE COCERES: I was a little bit concentrated on him because he was the strong one of the strong guys in the field so if I looked to beat him and up until the 5th hole it was okay.  But then after the 5th hole everybody started playing poorly and then it got complicated because everybody started coming in and then on the backside then I thought maybe even 9-under, maybe 10-under would win.  Because we were going backwards. 
 
Q.  Have you  had any European Tour playoff experience?
 
JOSE COCERES: Zero, this is the first time.  Yeah now wait a minute, now I have experience because I have played two holes.  (Laughter). 
 
Q.  When you got to 14 how were you feeling?  Did you sense the crowd getting behind you (inaudible)
 
JOSE COCERES: I think everybody was really supporting me from the beginning.  I think I responded with three birdies in five holes, the 3-putt on 6th hole we go back to that one, but that is okay because the putter came back and bounced back.  The putt on -- the last putt on 18 was about three or four feet and that was very important to tie the tournament. 
 
Q.  What club did you hit on 16 to put it so close for the birdie?
 
JOSE COCERES: Wedge. 
 
Q.  What are you going to do tonight?  What time will you go to bed, meal-wise or what?
 
JOSE COCERES: Same.  Dinner relax, nothing.  I am not going to try to do anything different, it is only one hole. 
 
Q.  How big will this be back home if you won?
 
JOSE COCERES: First of all, for me it is very important, for my whole family and for all my friends that have always supported me.  I think all the Argentines are with me because I am also playing for them being an Argentine and all the golfers in Argentina that know me . Thank you very much for everything and oh, thank you very much for whoever had us on the picture today.  I don't know who it was but I thank them.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT