WORLDCOM CLASSIC--THE HERITAGE OF GOLF
April 14, 2001
Jose Coceres
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Is this the first cut that you have made in the U.S.?

JOSE COCERES: Yes, it is my first time.

Q.  Bell South and the Masters were your two before?

JOSE COCERES: Yes.  Those are really two marvelous memories but a little painful.  Both were missed by one shot. 

Q.  Somebody from your family in Argentina got you involved in the game of golf?

JOSE COCERES: Well, the first time I started as a caddie, and then later on I learned, and I haven't learned everything yet. 

Q.  There is a short bio that says that you used to hit rocks?

JOSE COCERES: Yes.  When we were younger we made golf clubs out of limbs of trees and many times we played with that because it wasn't very easy to either have someone let you borrow clubs or get clubs.  I have nine brothers and one sister in the family.

Q.  Who are some of your early idols?

JOSE COCERES: I think the most important thing were the professionals that were from Buenos Aires that went to my province, Chaco, I saw what they did and that is where I tried to learn from their game, and thank God that one of the teachers from that time frame is still giving me some advice and teaching me.

Q.  37 years old, and you are playing your first PGA TOUR a couple of weeks ago.  Give us the history of how you got here?

JOSE COCERES: I played maybe ten years on the European Tour, very lucky for this year I played for The Masters.  Before The Masters, one week Bell South, invitation thank you very much for the PGA TOUR for here for this week.  I would like to thank the Worldcom Classic for inviting me to play in this event after The Masters.

Q.  It was an invitation, not a sponsor?


Q.  That gets him in here?


Q.  Have you travelled in the U.S. before you came over?

JOSE COCERES: About three years ago, I played the World Cup.

Q.  In Charleston?

JOSE COCERES: Yes, but I was hoping for an opportunity to play here, and I think that the way I was hitting the ball, striking the ball very well in the beginning of the year, I felt I had a lot of confidence.  I think that I have made sort of the turn today.

Q.  Were you inspired this week by Cabrera's performance last week at Augusta?

JOSE COCERES: I would have liked to have been in the same tournament with him and then it hurt me a little bit for me not being  -- I was a little hurt that he didn't win because I think he has quite a bit of potential and he should have been able to pull it off.  But we are two very different players.  He is very  -- Cabrera is very strong and hits the ball very long, and he is a little bit more normal. 

Q.  Take us into your game.  Are you a strong player?


Q.  His game fits here?

JOSE COCERES: In the United States you have to putt well and I have been working on my putting. (Inaudible)  I changed my putting a little bit so I am putting a little bit more comfortable, a little bit more confident.


Q.  Why did you play so well today, 7-under versus the first two rounds?  Was it something that clicked today?

JOSE COCERES: To make the cut, and I think that for the last  -- I didn't want to end up being short by one so I played a little bit more conservative.  I was either -- I wanted to make sure that I was in, as opposed to being out by one or two.  So I could play a little bit more aggressively today than I did yesterday and the day before.   I was very relaxed today because I knew that the only way to move forward is to play well, and thank God I did.

Q.  You are going to go from missing two cuts to being in next to last or in the last group of the day.  Probably that is a pretty big adjustment.  What do you think about that?

JOSE COCERES: It is -- for me it is nothing that  -- because I have been playing well so therefore the only thing I needed was to make the cut and to feel with a little bit of confidence and I think that passing the cut yesterday gave me a lot of confidence and today I was able to respond.

Q.  Are you interested in playing the U.S. tour?

JOSE COCERES: I'd like to but I don't really want to answer (laughter).

Q.  You won a European Tour last year?


Q.  You did not go back to Dubai this year to defend.  Why?

JOSE COCERES: We couldn't come an agreement with the tournament organizers.

Q.  Was there any kind of mental adjustment that you made to come over to the U.S.?

JOSE COCERES: No, I only had  -- I was playing well and I had been practicing well besides that I had come from Brazil I came with a second place in Brazil and unfortunately I was  -- I knew that the greens were quick here, when you really had to work a lot on the greens, but the times that I had three putts here in the United States it was because I left them short.  So this made me think that maybe I am thinking that the greens were a little bit too fast, that is why I was leaving them a little bit short.  I didn't play aggressive enough.  I thought they were very fast, too many short putts and missing.

Q.  What is your association with Mr. Coceres? 


Q.  You talked about when you made the cut that you were being conservative to make sure you make the cut.  In your round today when did you become more aggressive and turn it on?


Q.  So his whole attitude from today was from the round  --

JOSE COCERES: Today, yes.  From yesterday I was playing under pressure to make the first nine holes and after the outbound 9 being 3-under I noticed that I was pretty sure that I would make the cut and I played more comfortable the back nine and I came in 1-under on the back nine.

Q.  Obviously the first time you have played this course this week?

JOSE COCERES: First time.  Just one practice round, no Pro-Am.

Q.  What type of attitude do you have about tomorrow?  What do you have to do?

JOSE COCERES: Go eat and we wait for what happens tomorrow.

Q.  Are you surprised that 11-under is leading right now?

JOSE COCERES: Yeah, a little surprised.  Because I thought I was further behind, quite behind and when you play as well as you do, you also have a chance to put it in first place or at least be in a good position tomorrow to be in near the leaders.  I knew that when I was 8-under on the first  -- on the outbound nine I knew that my mind was to try to finish 11-under to have a chance for tomorrow. 

Q.  Do you think  --

JOSE COCERES: I don't know why, but I was  -- I had 11 in my mind.  The problem was when the putt was leaving shorter and there was only two holes left, the 11 was starting to run away from me.

Q.  Do you expect to have any pressure on you tomorrow or do you think you will be more relaxed?

JOSE COCERES: Ask me tomorrow. 

Q.  Who is the more prominent player in your country Cabrera and how popular is golf?

JOSE COCERES: Well, I think the more popular one is Roberto de Vicenzo.  He has played well everywhere, more Open Championships than anyone else and today, you know, in our age group it is obviously Cabrera and obviously I try to put it off my shoulders and push them up a little bit to promote Argentine golf. 


Q.  If you were to win tomorrow how much of a boost would that be for the popularity of golf in Argentina?

JOSE COCERES: I think in the first place I think that if it's my fortune to win tomorrow, it would help my family quite a bit, my friends that have been there to support me and after that it will be good for Argentine golf and be part of one of the winners.  But long way to go.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT