THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 5, 2007
Jose Coceres
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Thanks for joining us.  Tough way to lose out there today, but you have to tip your hat to Mark Wilson, he made a great birdie putt there to win.  You're playing probably some of the best golf of your career; you haven't won, but you finished second last two weeks.  You have to be encouraged by your play and you can almost, like I said, take a lot into the next couple of months, maybe some opening comments. 
 JOSE COCERES:  Yes, I'm very happy to stay here (in a playoff) one more time.  It's very good for players you stay here; you play good golf this week.  Very happy for me, I play two weeks in playoffs. 
 My golf has changed 100% last year to this year.  I don't know why.  Maybe for my work, maybe my gymnastics in Argentina, very good work.  I stayed two weeks on the beach, it's very nice, with my family. 
 I'm very happy one more time for my golf this week, one more time for playoffs.  Maybe in these moments, I'm nervous.  Mr. Wilson, he played very good, hole 10, two shots on the green, 2-putted.  Very happy for me on hole 10 and then another one, one hole more. 
 On hole 17, my shot is very good, but Mr. Wilson, he had a similar shot, he had a putt to win and I'm very happen tee one more time to finish second in the playoff. 
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  What did you hit on 17 in the playoff? 
 JOSE COCERES:  I played 9-iron.  I didn't hit a full 9-iron, maybe 70, 80 percent. 
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  In the first playoff hole this morning, you made a really good up-and-down to kind of extend the match, because you're the only one that made par other than Mark. 
 JOSE COCERES:  Yeah, the first shot it's -- for me because it's long, down; the hole it's too long maybe, but my shot in the bunker, maybe a chance to get up on the green, and have a putt to play one hole more. 
 It's important for me to play more near Mr. Wilson on hole 10 in the bunker because maybe Mr. Wilson misses his putt and gives me a chance for par.  It was very important for me to finish and get my sand shot inside of Mark because that way I could be able to put a little pressure on him.  So I knew I had a chance to at least tie with a par. 

 Q.  Was it difficult to come back for another day? 
 JOSE COCERES:  Yes, very difficult because tonight, my ticket is to fly to Argentina, so I have to stay one more day here.  Maybe now that it's finish, I go for my baggage in my room and maybe my manager and I will go to Best Buy and go shopping maybe and look at some DVDs.  Right now I'm flying tonight. 
 Okay, my friends, thank you very much.  See you next time, maybe next playoff, maybe I'll win, but second is good.  (Laughter). 
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Thank you. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT