BOOZ ALLEN CLASSIC
June 23, 2006
Jose Coceres
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Another great 64 after a great up and down at nine.  Why don't you just take us through your state of mind.
JOSE COCERES:  Yeah, I get a lot of confidence.  I told you yesterday, for my golf yesterday, it is very good for me for the confidence for next day.

Today is next day.  I play very good for my golf.  I very happy to be here, and very happy for    (Inaudible.)  Maybe happy for me and my golf for me and my Argentina.
Q.  Do you expect the phone to start ring now for sponsors?
JOSE COCERES:  Yes.  For next time I play    I like playing next week.  And this is very good for me for next week.  This week is going to be    now it's very good.  Maybe big chance to qualify for next week.
Q.  How much did the injury a couple years ago set you back, and how exactly did you    it said in the book you hurt it playing in a soccer game back home.  What were the circumstances?
JOSE COCERES:  I don't know.  Maybe nothing.  Maybe too much    I don't know.  I played very good two times here in America, and my golf is very good golf.  I don't know.  In football I go in another one and play here.  Maybe too much (Inaudible.)
Q.
You put too much weight on it and it cracked?
JOSE COCERES:  Yeah.  I got too strong from the front.
Q.  You just collided with another player?
JOSE COCERES: (Inaudible.)  I come in and I play my first hole, I play in Masters.  Not play good.  I remember playing    I don't know    it's now in the Senior Tour, and I don't remember the name.  Maybe played 220, 230 maybe.  Only play    my drive maybe 14 in the back (inaudible.)

But I working in practice and now it's maybe more better.  Now maybe play a little more in the front.  Very happy for my game.
Q.  Is that one of the reasons you struggled for the last few years?
JOSE COCERES:  Maybe, yeah.
Q.  Yeah.  With the injury you lost about 40 yards off the tee.
JOSE COCERES:  Yeah.

THE INTERPRETER:  And now he's back.
Q.  Since we brought up soccer, I've got to ask you about the World Cup.  How far is Argentina going to go?
JOSE COCERES:  Big moment.  Maybe too late to qualify for the group.  Argentina playing, and one team is Mexico.  They play tomorrow.  I watched it, but I seen the Mexico last year in Germany.  (Inaudible)  Now it's a good team.  I feel they    one day play in Argentina, and I look and the ball was moving for the score.

(Inaudible)  One team that's coming because    I don't know Mexico, because I going for Argentina.  That is my team, my country.
Q.  (Inaudible in Spanish.)
JOSE COCERES:  Very important for me for my team for the football for wake up.  You know, more important for my golf for my family, for too many thing.  And maybe I go in the night and I looking for the match, maybe putt one more time, and I looking yesterday in my (Inaudible.)
Q.
(Inaudible.)
JOSE COCERES:  Yes.
Q.  Your last nine holes today the five birdies.  Can you talk about that?
JOSE COCERES:  Today my status is (Inaudible.)  Bogey on No. 12, good drive.  Maybe not good drive, but the fairway (inaudible) just very good.  Not the front, the green.  Maybe ten in the front.  I don't know (Spanish.)  Play 200, total is 204.  I don't know.  I Bogey this and the next hole Par 5 next hole.  My hole today is very good for (Inaudible.)  I play 5 iron and I maybe finish in three feet for the hole.

And then another birdie on about 18 and Drive 5 iron and maybe finish four, five feet.  This is more confident for me for the second round.
Q.  (Inaudible.)  How hard is it to
JOSE COCERES:  No, very, very good for me.  My family not too much working.  Very happy for me.  I like it because my (Inaudible.)  Very happy for me to stay here and very happy for the two round.  Very good.  Now maybe top leader.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
JOSE COCERES:  (Inaudible) the 2001, and now I change my swing.  I change the    now it's my    I looking for my golf yesterday, and today I watch    I play.  I watch every shot.  Very good shots.  Maybe my hit is more clean.  Not too much problems.

I like to play here and Argentina.  I don't know for why.  Maybe for not too much play here because it's more relaxed.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
JOSE COCERES:  Too much times more confident for    (Spanish) I don't know.  Maybe my (inaudible) maybe change.  Now it's working out and very good score for me.
Q.  The south American that we're probably more familiar with is Carlos Franco.  And I know Carlos supports, financially his parents and his brothers, his aunts and uncles and cousins.  Do you have the same situation with your family?  Are you supporting a very big extended family?

THE INTERPRETER:  He supports them, but doesn't give them money.
JOSE COCERES:  No, no, I put money every week.
Q.  It's always good to be able to help when you can.
JOSE COCERES:  I say God bless them with a lot of things, very big family.

THE INTERPRETER:  But he helps a lot of friends back home.  About three months ago, a family in his home town, their house burned down, and he organized a charity soccer event.  They brought in professional soccer players and himself, and they helped rebuild the house.

Those are the type os things that make him feel really good.
Q.  How many years did it take you to    how many times did you try to make the PGA tour before you were finally able to?
JOSE COCERES:  Last year only.
Q.  Okay.
JOSE COCERES:  I started in Europe about    I play in Europe.  I play maybe 15 years and    one tournament for the Masters.  I don't remember the name before.  (Inaudible) I go for the Masters, one shot, out.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT