BOOZ ALLEN CLASSIC
June 22, 2006
Jose Coceres
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
NELSON SILVERIO:  Welcome, Jose.  Thanks for coming in for a couple minutes.  A 64, just two shots off the lead.  Why don't you just take us through your round and how the golf course is playing.  Como esta de campo?
JOSE COCERES:  Today for my golf, I played very good.  I made eight birdies, one bogey, only one bogey the whole nine on the par 3.  Very good for my score today.  It's important for me, for more confidence for tomorrow, for the weekend.  I wait long time for my golf, it's a good course.

But very happy for today.  I come here for my confidence for the day.  The course is in very good condition.  The greens is very good condition.  It's important for every hole for the position, moving too fast, maybe the greens, for example, very important for the position for the course; if it moves right, if it moves left.  I sit here, in two not many friends; in 2001, too many friends.  Very happy to win one more time together.
Q.  You've only played in three tournaments this year.  I mean, this is your fourth on the Tour.  Are you just having difficulty getting in on your status and how frustrating is that?  How difficult is that?
JOSE COCERES:  The first time, I'm very happy for me.  I stay too many times in Argentina, my family, friends, living.  I play 15 years in Europe, I played five years, maybe here, five.  So too many times flying hotel, fly, hotel, play golf.  So back there, I played in my country and but I want to be both in Argentina and here.  So I decided to go home for a little bit and spend time with my family.

It's not easy for me, in my head, to stay in Argentina, (I'm thinking about) to play golf.  But then in Argentina, I go back home, not play maybe three, four months.  I come in for Hilton Head, for two weeks, very happy.  I play in Top 10 and I play the next week, so very happy, it's okay.  Now I stay two weeks in Argentina, I come in for this week, maybe play good, maybe I finish Top 10, I don't know, maybe win, I don't know.  I'm very happy and in good condition for this week, weekend.
Q.  It seems like you're putting a lot of pressure on yourself with very few starts to play your top golf.  Obviously you're not giving yourself that many opportunities.  When you show up, do you feel that added pressure?
JOSE COCERES:  Big pressure for me to come in for one week, I need maybe Top 10 for next week.  But maybe to go back to Argentina is very happy for me, as I say, my family and it's my country.  Maybe I play very good this week, I'd be very happy for next week.  Too many friends in Argentina, and maybe here, I can look for my golf, and back home they are pushing me to play even better and get back on Tour.  I can rest, pick my spots and play better because of it.
Q.  What went right for you today?
JOSE COCERES:  Of course, everything.  I have much confidence, I played 18 holes and I feel like it wasn't that hard.  When I turned in my card, 9 under, I played very confident.  I stay back home maybe last week, and I practice two weeks, maybe I play the last    I go one day last week and practice maybe two hours.  Maybe play three weeks, more maybe.  I practice two hours, I stay back home Friday, I call my manager, Robert.  Robert, are we in the tournament?  Are we in the tournament?  Yes?  I go practice Saturday, Sunday, Monday, Tuesday here, Wednesday and today.  Monday was very good, played 18 holes    (laughter).
Q.  What would be a target number of tournaments that you would want to play this year, ideally?
JOSE COCERES:  I don't have a number.  I would like to maybe one time win this fear for next year, more easy, to open up dates.  This is good for me, good life, good friends.
Q.  How did you get in the tournament?
JOSE COCERES:  I don't know.  (Laughter) Exemption for winner, past champion?  I wait for maybe PGA or maybe a sponsor invitation one time.  Whenever my manager calls PGA, maybe for sponsor invitation, only one.

(Speaking through interpreter):  The sponsor invited me for a tournament, that's what I hopes for.  My manager sends letters to every tournament and I got one invitation here.  I don't know what is the politics, there has to be some going on, but trying to get invitations down the road, hopefully I will be invited.  I am ready to play now. )

After Q School, I didn't want to play more golf, I was ready to go home.  I wanted to spend time with my family.  I didn't feel like I wanted to stay here and play.  Now I'm ready to go.  So now I'm hoping to get invitations for down the road.
Q.  Do you want to play here more than what you have been?  Have the entrants been the problem in why you haven't been playing a lot?
JOSE COCERES:  Yes, I'd like to maybe play two weeks more, maybe stay here.  I'd like to play two weeks more, maybe go back home for two weeks and relax and see my family.
NELSON SILVERIO:  Thanks, Jose.  Thanks for coming in.  Appreciate it.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT