TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 26, 2015
Jim Renner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Want to just talk about your round today and what was going well?JIM RENNER: Yeah, I mean, it was a pretty clean round.  I had two birdies, no bogeys.  I played the back nine first and was able to make two birdies on the back and then nine pars on the front.  I actually had a few good looks coming in there on that front nine, my final nine.  Couldn't convert any, but it looked all right.  I had some tricky putts and some tricky pins out there, but overall I think I played pretty solid today.Q. You had a big following out there today and I heard yesterday as well.  What was that like?JIM RENNER: Oh, yeah, it's pretty comical.  I'm from up around here, so just south of Boston right between Boston, Providence, a town called Plainville.  So there were a few guys from Bar Stool Sports out here.  They're pretty funny guys.  So they were out there hooting and hollering and whatnot.  It was a lot of fun though.  They behaved, which I was impressed with for the most part.Q. Did you see he wore the Rally Renner Army shirts?JIM RENNER: I didn't know he was going to do that.  I like to go a little bit under the radar.  But, hey, they're having fun with it.  They don't know too much about golf.  I'm sure for a lot of them it's probably the first tournament they've ever been to, but it is what it is.Q. Is it kind of different and nice to have people out there like coming around?JIM RENNER: Yeah, like I said, they're a funny bunch.  But it's also nice to have friends and family here.  I'm sure over the weekend there will probably be a little bit more.  It certainly makes it nice.  I love playing golf up here.  I love being up here.  So it's definitely a feeling of comfort, I guess you could say.Q. What is your mindset going into tomorrow?JIM RENNER: Yeah, I just want to keep it going.  Finally this year I started to cut the ball nice, which has really been an enormous headache for me the entire year.  So actually the first two rounds I probably haven't hit the ball as well as I have this year, but I managed to convert on getting up and in or making a nice putt to keep me going. Kind of those momentum type putts that I've been severely lacking this year, I've been able to make a few of those, which has been very nice.  It's amazing what that can do to carry out throughout your round.Q. What has been the difference in your putting?  Was it an equipment change?JIM RENNER: Yeah, I actually -- in Memphis, I went to the arm lock, the Matt Kuchar style of putting, I guess you could call it.  In Memphis I didn't putt that well because I really didn't -- I wasn't able to dabble enough with them to figure out something that I was extremely comfortable with.  But it was a good week in the sense that it gave me something to go off of which is pretty much what I needed. So this week coming in I had a pretty good idea of what I was looking for and that type of style of putter, and it just happened to work.  It feels comfortable.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT