THE McGLADREY CLASSIC
October 23, 2014
Jim Renner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Jim, let's talk about today.   I thought you were going to tie for the lead at 18.   Just missed that birdie, but all in all, what a great day for you?  
JIM RENNER:   Yeah, today was nice.   You know, it was just a solid round really from the first tee to the 18th green, so I'm very pleased with it, and you know, looking forward to tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Whenever you hit 17 of 18 greens here, especially with the wind, and these greens are tough, that's a good round of golf, isn't it?  
JIM RENNER:   Yeah.   You know, like I was just saying before, I think my game is really close, and sometimes the golf, you know, you look at last week where Ben Martin missed the cut, didn't play very well, and then he played unbelievable last week.   
So I feel like, you know, I've been right there.   And you know, today was obviously‑‑ hey, it's one round, but it's a good start for sure.  
   
 Q.   Tell us about your injury, because I know you've been battling it for quite a while?  
JIM RENNER:   Oh, it's just‑‑ you get nicks and bruises and all sorts of stuff.   I just had a tendon problem in my right elbow last year.   Never enough to take me out of tournaments, but certainly something that was annoying the entire year.   So I got that taken care of right after the Wyndham, you know, it's just like anything.   You want to play, and especially when I felt like I was right there, even with all that other stuff going on.  
But you know, I got it taken care of, and hopefully I won't have to revisit it, but you never know.  
   
 Q.   You can relate to all the pitchers, baseball pitchers who have elbow problems?  
JIM RENNER:   Yeah.   I guess the injury I have wasn't really golf maybe related.   I don't know how I did it.   Probably doing something stupid.   
No, but I don't know how it happened, to be honest.   I think it was just a progression thing, and then it started to be sore and had it looked at, and you know, went about it like that.   But it's all good now.   No worries.  
   
 Q.   Keep it going.   You're playing great.   
JIM RENNER:   Thank you.   Appreciate it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT