THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 3, 2014
Jim Renner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Jim, you played the front nine as your second nine, and you really got after it there taking your score pretty low on that front nine for you, including your birdie on your last hole, the ninth?
JIM RENNER:   Yeah, I got off to a good start, made a nice par on the first hole, and on the second hole I chipped it in, and that kind is what got me going a little bit.   Gave myself a bunch of opportunities, so was lucky enough to roll a few in.

Q.   Give us some insight into this course and why you felt so comfortable playing it today. 
JIM RENNER:   You know conditions were really nice.   The wind was swirling a little but, but the golf course is in great shape.
You know, some of my results as of late haven't been that great, but I feel like I've been making good progress, I mean, so I was able to take it from the range to the golf course. 

Q.   How big is this first round 65 for you moving forward to the next hopefully three rounds?
JIM RENNER:   Yeah.   It's definitely a step in the right direction, that's for sure.   One of the things that I've been, you know, looking at and trying to do better at is get off to a better start instead of putting myself in the hole right away.   So this obviously helps.
You know, the golf course is in good shape, so there's going to be some good scores, so hopefully I can just keep it going.

Q.   Jim, well played. 
JIM RENNER:   Thank you.

Q.   Just the round out there.   I mean you got the five.   Were there low scores out there, because not as many in the afternoon as there was this morning. 
JIM RENNER:   Yeah, I mean the wind was swirling a little bit, so you had to gauge that, and you know, sometimes you get lucky and sometimes you get unlucky.   But for the most part I was on the right side of that.
And for the most part I was just able to roll some putts in, which I haven't really done as of late.   So it was nice to finally roll a few in.

Q.   How was your confidence coming in?   I know you haven't played great since Pebble.   You had one good finish at Houston, but since then it's been a little rough. 
JIM RENNER:   Yeah.   I've had little nicks and injuries that I've had to deal with.   And also, I felt like my game actually hasn't been that bad.   From week to week it would be one tournament I didn't drive it well and then I'd do everything else well and then I'd drive it well and then I'd putt poorly. 
So I've kind of been going through that little cycle, which everybody goes through.   Yeah, the confidence has been a little bit down as of late just because I feel like I'm doing everything I can and I'm really trying out there. 
But you know, I had a really good warmup and I was fortunate enough to carry it all to the golf course. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT