AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 9, 2014
Jim Renner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You come home in 31.   That's a pretty sporty inward nine today?  
JIM RENNER:   Yeah, I had it going on that back nine.   It was nice to get it going and make a couple putts.   I hit a lot of quality shots, but it was nice to also roll them in.  
   
 Q.   I don't know, that might give Jimmy something to think about out there.   
JIM RENNER:   Yeah, I was just trying to play well.   Jimmy walker has been playing so well, I was just worried about my own game, honestly.   So, I was just kind of doing my own thing.   
   
 Q.   And a clutch five‑footer there on the last hole?  
JIM RENNER:   Yeah, that was nice.   I knew that would probably be pretty big for many reasons, but it was nice to get up there and roll it in.   
   
 Q.   You really have to manage your driver off the tee, you hit 11 of 14 fairway, and today was a tough day to play golf.   
JIM RENNER:   Yeah, I drove the ball extremely well.   You do have to drive the ball well out here, I think, to play well.   But, it's a big factor hitting it in the fairway and you get to put your hand on it and playing with lift, clean, and place that's a big deal and a big help.  
   
 Q.   Are you nervous now?  
JIM RENNER:   No, I'm not nervous.   I mean, it is what it is.   I played nice, you know, hey, it is what it is and I'm happy with my round.   
   
 Q.   Your impressions on your finish in this golf tournament.   
JIM RENNER:   It was certainly a great finish.   It was a great tournament.   At a great place, obviously.   So, it looks like I might finish anywhere from T‑2 to it.   3, or a playoff.   But just to play out here, we're very fortunate.   
   
 Q.   At this point in your career how important was a finish like this?  
JIM RENNER:   It was pretty big.   I had been struggling a little bit and I really felt like I had dialed it in last week.   I stayed in Phoenix and just practiced and then coming here this week, I just knew I needed a good week.   My back was up against the wall and that's something that I'm familiar with and I don't mind it, but I'm happy that I freed myself up a little bit for the rest of the year.  
   
 Q.   You said you've been struggling, what specifically have you changed?  
JIM RENNER:   Well, where do I start?   I changed all my irons and my shafts and all my, I mean, yeah, all my shafts in my irons and all my shafts in my woods.   So, there you go.   
   
 Q.   Nothing with your game?  
JIM RENNER:   No, nothing with my game.   I just had the wrong shafts in my irons and I think the wrong shafts in my driver and my 3‑wood.   So, I finally dialed it in and it obviously paid off and obviously worked.   
This is a position that I would like to be in more often, so I might as well be as comfortable as I can be.   That's one of the things that I think kind of resonated with me is that I said, all right, it's time to step up your game and when you are in this position, to be comfortable and just to go out there and have fun and get after it.   
   
 Q.   For a guy like you, there's a lot of top‑10s, there's this, there's that, you don't get caught up in that, do you?  
JIM RENNER:   Well, I'm paying attention to it, obviously.   But, at the same time, you've got to block it out somehow.   You can be aware of it, but you've got to find a way to block it out.   
   
 Q.   The fact that the assumption here is that you'll finish at worst, tied for second, which really gives you a pretty good cushion now going into the rest of the year.   Does that take a little pressure off knowing that you're well on the road now?  
JIM RENNER:   Yeah, if you were to look at my position when I was going into this week, I haven't played well at all, really.   But I found something that clicked last week when I was practicing and then carried it over into this week.   So, yeah, it helps, for sure.   I mean having a good finish against a great field at a great golf course, tough conditions too.   So.   You have to really grind out there.   So.   That's obviously something that I can hopefully build off of.  
   
 Q.   Was what you found something you can articulate to the normal people out there?  
JIM RENNER:   Well, it was pretty funny, I changed all my irons and my all my shafts in my irons and all my shafts in my woods.  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT