U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 26, 2015
Paul Wesselingh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Paul Wesselingh shot a 68 today and is 3 under par for the Championship.Q. 3 under par through 36 holes this year.  What do you attribute that to?PAUL WESSELINGH: State of mind, really.  I've been aware that, for some reason, I've not been performing in the States.  Performing great in Europe, winning eight times.  Coming over here, I felt, I suppose, when you stand on the practice set and you see Tom Watson and Freddy Couples, it gets a bit daunting, really. I have the help of a golf psychologist this year, got me thinking positively.  It worked because I made the cuts at French Lick and done well so far this week.Q. The course itself, does it suit your game?  If so, how so?PAUL WESSELINGH: Yeah, you have to drive it well.  That's generally what I do.  I'm very straight.  I'm not particularly long.  I'm very straight, and I'm struggling a little bit with my irons into the green because, obviously, playing in Europe, I hit the ball quite low.  I've managed to up and down it a few times and hold a few putts. So I'm enjoying the course.  It's great.  It's a fair course.  You've got to play well.Q. The double bogey, what shot did you hit there?PAUL WESSELINGH: I just got distracted at the top of my back swing on my second shot.  6 iron in, only 80 yards to the flag, nice lie.  Just came out of it, caught a bit thin.  It was just lack of concentration, I suppose, really.  But nearly made 5, which would have been nice.  But then made 2 on the next.  So good bounce-back really.Q. [Indiscernible] on the course yesterday.  What did you hit?PAUL WESSELINGH: Drive 3 wood.  The wind wasn't helping at all.  There was no wind in the morning.  Had 109 yards to the flag, hit a nice, easy pitching wedge, and it released out, went into the hole.  It was a real bonus.Q. You went for the club professional route instead of a touring career.  Has it been rewarding to spend more time with your family?PAUL WESSELINGH: Jake, my youngest son, is caddieing for me.  Ryan caddied for me, one of my other sons, in French Lick.  I just wanted to spend my time with my family and watch them grow up.  I've got three wonderful boys.  Now it's my time.  They're old enough.  All I've got to do is win some money to pay for them.Q. One is caddieing for you here?PAUL WESSELINGH: Jake, my youngest, is caddieing for me.Q. How old is he?PAUL WESSELINGH: He's 18.Q. Is he more moral support?  Does he help you?PAUL WESSELINGH: He's actually a very good green reader, and his favorite basketball team is Sacramento.  He's a great basketball player.  So watch out, because he could be over in a couple years.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT