ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 30, 2017
Pat Narduzzi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PAT NARDUZZI: I'd like to send our thoughts here from the University of Pittsburgh to all the affected people down in the state of Texas, Houston.  Just one of those things you look at and think about how big the world is down there.  What we're dealing with is fun.  We're blessed to have the game of football we have up here.  Just think about that.  Just wanted to get that out there.   
Obviously we're excited for the season to start.  I'm looking out my window.  The Steelers are practicing.  Got off the field, second practice, I get a great email from Commissioner Swofford wishing each of the head coaches good luck in the season, keep climbing and make the ACC the best conference in the country.  I appreciate that.   
We're getting ready for game number one against Youngstown State, a great opponent.  I think our kids are excited to go hit somebody else.  Think they're really sick of hitting each other.  We're excited to find out what that 2017 football team has.   
 Q.  You open up with a tough four-game stretch.  You did lose a lot of upperclassmen.  Have new guys stepped into leadership roles?  What kind of confidence does that give you with a big September ahead?  
PAT NARDUZZI: As coaches, I think you could poll every coach around the country.  Nobody has a ton of confidence going into that opener or that second game, third game, fourth game, all the way to the 12th game.  We play each day for what it is.   
Obviously we lost a lot of great players.  That's probably why I said in my opening statement I can't really wait to see what this 2017 football team really has.  You play against each other for four weeks, thanks to the NCAA they've extended the period of I guess pre-season camp.  Who knows what you have.  When you see your offense score a touchdown, was it because they're really good or is it because your defense wasn't so good and vice versa.  When you sack the quarterback, what's wrong with the O-line.  Is it good, maybe the pressure in our D-line is really good.   
I don't know what we'll have.  That's why I'm looking forward to it.  We did lose great players.  Then there's next players to step up.  We have a few on the roster.  Dewayne Hendrix, defensive end, a lot of exciting thoughts for him last year.  He doesn't make it through first quarter last season.  Keyshon Camp up front.  There's so many new names you're going to see out there this year.  I think it's going to be offensively, defensively and special teams, something that will be interesting to see how they handle the pressure of a game day, what we're all about.  We'll find out who we are this weekend.   
 Q.  With Ejuan Price gone, who will be picking up all the production he had, particularly with the sacks?  
PAT NARDUZZI: I think he's being pretty productive with the Rams.  We were going to see if you could rush off the edge and give us a little pressure, but you declined us.  I'm kind of mad at you for that (laughter).   
 Q.  Out of eligibility.  
PAT NARDUZZI: I was talking about Dewayne Hendrix.  I think he's an explosive player.  I can't wait to watch him play.  People said, What's he going to be like?  I have nothing to compare it to.  He played a little bit at Tennessee two years ago.  He played in camp for us two years ago.  We haven't turned Dewayne Hendrix lose.   
Rashad Weaver has had a great camp.  Allen Edwards has had a great camp.  Inside, Keyshon Camp, we like to blitz a little bit, too.  We'll hopefully put pressure on the quarterback like we normally do.  Who is going to be that guy?  I don't know yet.  My hope is four or five guys, not just one.   
 Q.  With Jordan out for the first three games, who are you looking at to fill his spot?  
PAT NARDUZZI: Take him out of the ballgame, you take Terrish Webb, who I just walked by out with the Steelers, giving our guys high fives, he's still with the Steelers.  Reggie Mitchell, who is in grad school right now.  You lost three safeties.  It's a whole new back end right there.   
It's going to be a big test at Youngstown.  A great receiving corps back there.  Really the guys that have to step up is Dennis Briggs, voted captain by his teammates this weekend, a junior safety.  He's had a really good camp.  Jazzee Stocker, Bricen Garner, two guys competing for that free safety spot.  Phil Campbell and Henry Miller.  So five very capable guys that we feel can go in the game and produce.   
We're looking forward to, again, what they have this weekend.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT