UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 30, 2019
Pat Narduzzi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Boston College 26, Pitt 19
PAT NARDUZZI: Turnovers, cost four field goals. We gave them 12 points off of four turnovers. Very well could have been 28. But you're not going to win any football games turning the football over four times.
False starts. Got the ball down to the one. Ended up getting a field goal because we had a false start. Those details aren't taken care of. We've got to get better.
Questions.
Q. How do you account for all the mistakes?
PAT NARDUZZI: You tell me. I don't know. Senior Day, I feel bad for those seniors going out and playing like that.
We got senior tackles, illegal procedure, two of them to start off the game in the first series. I mean, you got to be focused, you got to be locked in, you got to take care of those things. There's no excuses for it. We got to get better as coaches and they got to be better as players.
Q. What happens to this offense when it gets to the red zone, can't find the end zone?
PAT NARDUZZI: Again, give BC some credit. We don't make enough plays to get in the end zone.
Q. Has there been one consistent thing that's been bothersome down there?
PAT NARDUZZI: You can't put your finger on whatever it is, whether it's a penalty or execution, blocking or making the catch, making the throw. We had four sacks in the first half, we didn't protect the quarterback. That's part of it.
Q. Is there a little frustration from your end that this team doesn't feel like it's playing its best football at the end of the season?
PAT NARDUZZI: No question we're frustrated. I don't think we're playing our best. We should be better than what we are right now.
Again, we got a good football team. It's not easy. I mean, BC came in, they're hungry, trying to get a bowl game themselves. They played better than we did. We didn't execute.
Q. How hard is it to swallow, you had a couple close losses this season, could have been 9-5?
PAT NARDUZZI: It is what it is. Every loss, whether it's close or by 28 points, they're all tough. That's part of the game.
What you don't want to do is just give it to them. When you give them four turnovers... I know there's some young guys on offense making mistakes. We don't have a ton of senior leadership on the offense. We've got some on defense. That's part of it.
Q. (Question about Taysir Mack.)
PAT NARDUZZI: He'll be ready to go for the bowl game. Physically wasn't capable.
Q. Did you feel like it was a cumulative effect of the turnovers and time of possession to be slanted against your defense?
PAT NARDUZZI: Yeah, when you allow them to run the ball. Again, A.J. Dillon is a big back. He fought for yards. We didn't tackle 250 pounds very well. He's a hefty guy.
Q. (No microphone.)
PAT NARDUZZI: I don't know. We rotated enough linemen in there. It will wear on anybody. You saw that during the year. I mean, rushed for almost 500 yards on Syracuse. They know how to run the football. They do a nice job.
Like I said, A.J. Dillon, give him some credit, he's a big back, an NFL tailback.
Q. How much did the loss at Virginia Tech take a toll on this team knowing they weren't in the ACC championship picture?
PAT NARDUZZI: I don't think much of a toll. I think our kids were locked in and ready to go. I thought we had a good week of practice. Wouldn't have been there anyway based on the results of Friday afternoon. It was just better to find out a week earlier instead of the night before, so...






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT