UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 2, 2019
Pat Narduzzi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PAT NARDUZZI: How we doing today, good?
Well, welcome to the 2019 Pitt football season.  I'm kind of jealous you guys got into football a week earlier with the Steelers.  Sitting there watching them kind of compete and get after it and take the trucks out to Latrobe, you kind of look and say, hey, why don't we get to start at the same time.  But we are excited to get this season started.  Our kids have worked extremely hard during the summer with Coach Andrews and his strength staff.  We've made some major improvements I think in that room.  We've got 12, really 15 returning starters, 12 of which have been with us, as well as three graduate transfers that we're happy to bring into our family and really see what they can do when the football pads are on because they haven't really been with us.  So that's kind of where we are as far as personnel goes.
But I'm excited about where we are.  We had the first practice -- usually we're six or seven in before we have media day, so we thought we'd change it up a little bit, but excited about where we are after practice one.  I think there's a lot of recall.  I think the summers have changed a little bit with the 30 minutes that we can spend with them during the summer as far as on the field, and we've kind of just made that better.  I think every year we get a little bit better with our preparation for seasons, a little bit more detailed, so I'm happy with where we are there.
I thought it was a solid practice today.  We'll watch the tape.  Obviously haven't had a chance to watch the tape yet, but excited.  So I guess I'll leave that to you guys with questions.
Q. Is there a different kind of an energy when you open the season with a divisional opponent?
PAT NARDUZZI: You know, I hope there's no different energy.  I think especially the energy in the first day, will there be more energy on day 14 or 15 when the camp drags on and August drags on?  Maybe.  As far as the coaches go, I kind of talked to our kids about that last night, that the coaches are prepared.  It doesn't matter who we're playing.  I think the energy is the same.
But I think for the players, as we start to get closer, they'll get more anxious because they know how important that opener is.  Again, a game is a game, a team is a team, but when you start off in the ACC, it's important.  Our guys know how important that -- maybe the ACC is a little bit more when they look at what happened last year with maybe not so good in the non-conference and the stakes are against us, and all of a sudden we make a run in the conference, in the Coastal, I think that was an important lesson for our kids to learn how important that really is.  We talk about how important the ACC is, but to learn that lesson and know that, hey, it really doesn't matter, we want to win them all, that's always the goal for every football team is to win every game.  But to start off with an ACC opponent, the team that's picked to win the Coastal, certainly resonates with our football team.
Q. This is the first senior class that has known you as head coach.  What do you think might set these guys apart, your seniors?
PAT NARDUZZI: First of all, it's a little scary, so thanks for reminding me of that.  What was the final part of that question?  All I could hear or think of was I'm the first coach --
Q. What's going to happen -- what's going to set these seniors apart in your mind?
PAT NARDUZZI: I mean, I think 2019 is their season.  I talked about these seniors.  It's their football team, and I think each senior class has a different style of leadership.  You know, we're going to find out who captains are here in a month.  But each senior class has a different way of leading, and I think we have different style with these guys.  They have a different attitude, they have a different mindset.  They have different goals.  And I like how they've come together.
Just yesterday I get a call from Amir Watts FaceTiming me, and he's only like 40 yards away, he FaceTimed me saying, Coach, I need your help.  I go in the defensive staff room and they're talking about ideas and things that they want to be, and it's kind of like, that really hasn't happened in five years.  There's little things like that that these kids are taking ownership of who they are, what they are, and that senior class that sits in those front rows, as you said, they know this is their football team, and I think that's important.
Q. Can you share your conversation with Amir?
PAT NARDUZZI: You know, they're just talking about really -- to just, I guess, summarize it, they were basically having a conversation about who they want to be on defense.  Every year I want the offense, defense and special teams to have a blueprint of what they want to be, and it comes down to this simply:  In the past when I was a defensive coordinator, we used to always tell the defense, hey, you've got to do this, you've got to do this, you've got to do this and you've got to do this, and they would be like -- it's sometimes in one ear and out the other because no one wants to be told make the bed -- you tell your kids to make the bed in the morning, they're kind of like, hey, that wasn't my idea of a morning.
So we really instilled in our kids saying, hey, tell me what you want to be offensively, what do you want to be defensively, what do you want to be on special teams, and let them build their blueprint.  Again, hopefully they're regurgitating what we're feeding them as far as that blueprint, but we want them to have the identity, so it was kind of some of those questions about things they want to do, and I was like, it's just good to see the enthusiasm.  In the past it's been like, hey, let's get it done, you guys gotta get that blueprint done, have you got it yet, what are you waiting for.  But these guys have been on top of it, and obviously the coordinators have done an excellent job of pushing them through that, too.
Q. The goal is then to get them to want to make the beds on their own?
PAT NARDUZZI: The goal is to say, hey, Mom, I think my goal is to get up this morning and make my bed, and it's kind of like, well, if it's their idea they'll probably do it, but if you tell them to do it, they probably aren't going to do it.  You guys can use that as a parenting --
Q. Does it take some Jedi mind tricks to get them to come around?
PAT NARDUZZI: Maybe.  I just want them to figure it out.  Again, they've got an idea.  They know what they were lacking a year ago offensively and defensively, and you know, offensively last year it was all about being violent.  Well, they were violent.  They might not have had some things maybe they should have, so we've got to add some things about who you want to be and what you want to do.
Q. How has the install of Mark's offense gone?
PAT NARDUZZI: Yeah, it's gone well, as expected.  Obviously we haven't had the test yet.  The kids can say I'm studying hard for that exam, but until you have that test and the exam, you never know how it goes, so the exam is on the 31st in the evening there, and we're going to find out there.
But I think the first part of that question is really how are the kids with it, do they like it, are they engaged in it, or are they kind of like, ugh, we're doing that again?  But I think when you get a chance to ask that question to our offense and our players, they'll be able to answer a little bit better than I can because it's their offense, and how do they like it and I think you'll get the truth.
But I think they really like it.  I like what we're doing.  I like how we're combining maybe some of the Whipple stuff and what we've done here in the past.  Obviously we're going to run the football and we're going to continue to find ways to run the football, and whatever it may be, and I think those are the important things.  It's going well.
Q. It was mentioned UVA being one of the teams that's considered a Coastal favorite.  Bronco Mendenhall at ACC media days said they were confident they could win the Coastal.  How do you guys approach that, and is it too early for that kind of confidence?
PAT NARDUZZI: Yeah, the first time -- you're saying too early for their confidence?
Q. No, how do you approach it?
PAT NARDUZZI: Right now we're worried about ourselves, okay.  We're worried about what we are doing.  We're worried about our football team, what we're doing offensively, fundamentally, technically, defensively, special teams the same thing.  Worrying about the chemistry in this room, how we can communicate and do things better as a football team, and we'll worry about them when we start getting probably two weeks out is when we'll start to -- the game plan has already been put in.  That will get tweaked.  So coaches have prepped it, but right now we're worried about being a better football team, and then we'll worry about that game later on because if all's we did is worry about that we'll probably miss on a lot of things.
Q. Do you use that as motivation in that Pitt won the Coastal last year but now you're picked to finish fourth?
PAT NARDUZZI: Not really.  I mean, I think we were picked fifth a year ago, so I wish we were picked sixth really, push us down -- again, it all just comes down to respect.  I think it comes down to how you finish your season, and we didn't finish maybe as strong as Virginia did, and good for them.  I'm not worried about what the preseason ranks look like, I'm worried about what the postseason ranks look like.
Q. Do you remind them that they traveled this road before and won the Coastal Division, that they've done this before?
PAT NARDUZZI: I don't want to talk about what we've done in the past.  I'd liked to really move forward.  As you walk in, you can see a little bit of a -- I want them to see it, I don't want to talk about it.  If I sit here and talk about it every day, they'll be like, Coach is still thinking about 2018.  I'm on to '19.  We have signs that will tell them what they did on the practice field.  We're not going to talk about it, but I think it's good to walk by there and say, hey, we did that, we can do it again.
Q. Where do you want to see the biggest growth from this unit as a team try to build upon that next step?
PAT NARDUZZI: You know, obviously the growth is in every position.  If I could just -- if I had to say one thing, man, I wish it was that easy to just focus on one thing.  But if you did have to pick one thing, you'd have to say, we need to have an accompanying passing game to go with our run game.  I mean, I don't think -- I think everybody in this room could probably answer that question.  But it's more than that.  If we get our passing game going and we don't have a run game, we're going to have the same issues.  I don't want to be one-dimensional on offense, and I want to be better on defense.
Q. Is there something you can tell that's different about Kenny this year than last year going into camp?
PAT NARDUZZI: You know, you can tell he's a year older, because he is.  I don't see anything really different as far as who Kenny is, but every one of our kids are grown up.  I looked at Nick Patti out there today, I said something to him about like wow, he used to have some pencil legs, and all of a sudden he looks -- I told him we might move him to linebacker pretty soon, which was a joke, so don't print that.  But he just looks different.
Every one of our kids has made improvements in the weight room bigger faster stronger.  We're getting better in all phases, and Kenny I'm sure looks better.  Does he look so much that you can see it?  You can take someone's freshman body and look at him, and then all of a sudden they slim down and they have a V to their body now.  But with a quarterback that's already pretty darned good looking, I mean, he still looks good.  I'm sure he's got more confidence.  Coach Whipple thought he only played three games the year before.  He's like, I didn't realize he only played three.  I mean, that guy has only started for a year, so we're going to see that type of improvement.  I said, Kenny played four, so we had to go back to that Syracuse game and show him that last play that he completed.  So Kenny has grown, and he's going to look different next year compared to this year.  That's our job.  If he's not growing, then we've done a bad job.  We've done a poor job.
Q. How confident are you in the guys on the offensive line?  You mentioned the graduate transfers.
PAT NARDUZZI: You know, it's hard to -- I watched obviously the whole practice, and you're kind of like this, there's a lot of moving parts in our ACC Championship period that we call it near the end of practice, I just saw him jack somebody up, and they were only in shorts, but it was a punch.  I'm excited about all those guys.  But I'm excited about our offensive line.  Nobody was excited about them a year ago.  Everybody is like, that's a weakness, we have all these new guys.  Really when you look at Herndon starting new and Connor Dintino and you've got this new guy coming in from Kent State, like who's this guy, and I've got a lot of faith in what our offense does, I've got a lot of faith in Coach Borbely, who I think does an excellent job developing those guys.  I think we're probably taller, more athletic.  You watch those guys, when you look down there, watch those guys work out tomorrow in practice and just watch them move around in those ABC and teach periods, they are a good-looking group.  They lack a little experience, but we've all lacked experience at one point.  That doesn't mean you can't be successful.  So I'm excited about that group, and I expect them to be good.
Q. You have a lot of production to replace at running back, how important is it to have one guy carry the bulk of that load, and if it isn't working, do you feel like you have that guy -- who looks like that guy?
PAT NARDUZZI: You know what, I wish I could answer that question.  Coming out of spring ball, I don't know what the two deep looks like.  EJ just makes it up most of the time.  He puts down whatever he wants to.  I'm just kidding there, too.
But I think coming out of spring it was really AJ Davis, and Sibley was right on his tail.  Right now it's that same thing, but Michael Salahuddin is healthy right now.  He'll be full go out there.  We'll still limit him and be careful that we don't overdo it because we don't want to push him too fast, but he can do anything we want him to do.  If we want him to go live every period, we would do that, but we're just going to take him in slowly, and then those three guys, and then we're going to find out what Vince Davis and Daniel Carter and Kyle Vreen, all those guys have at that position, as well.  I don't know if I missed anybody on the depth chart there.
V'Lique played some running back in the spring but really we moved him to the wide out position.  We think with the depth back there, we want him to be more of a running back, and you know, with some of those little motions we do, we'll be able to get the ball in his hands somehow, but he's really electric out in space.  But if we need him there, he's got enough reps in spring ball that we could possibly throw him in, but he's a receiver right now.
Q. This is going to be your fifth season.  How much do you feel like the program's identity matches you as a coach or really what you thought it would be at this point in time during your tenure?
PAT NARDUZZI: Well, I'd be a fool to say, God, it's nothing like I thought.  But I hope it is.  That's for you guys to determine.  I don't ever look and say, gosh, does it have the identity I want.  Do I think we have a great attitude?  Yes.  Do I think we play with great effort?  Today I'd give it like a B effort, but that's because they've been out working at a B effort when we're not there in 7-on-7, so we'll get that going.  Are we a tough football team?  I think we are.  And are we a smarter football team than a year ago?  I think we've got a lot of knowledge in this room.  I think our coaches have done a great job.
So the identity is there.  You've got 110 players in camp that you hope are all on the same page, and that's what we'll have camp for, to make sure everybody has got that identity.  But when you think about Pitt football and what we want to be, it's a blue-collar football team, and I think that's what we've got.  I think we have an athletic blue-collar football team, though, and I think we've got a lot of depth.
Q. You never want to say this was the best or that, but is this as talented a defensive line top to bottom since you've been here at Pitt?
PAT NARDUZZI: Yeah, I would say for sure.  You look at -- I wish Aaron Donald was in that group, but missed out on that one.  But Ejuan Price and K.K. Mosley and Darryl Render, there were some good players in the past, and I never want to forget those guys.  But when you look at like there's -- especially inside, we've got some guys, but really Rashad Weaver and Patrick Jones has really come on.  I think he's got about every strength record that you can have in the weight room right now.  He's done a tremendous job in the off-season as well as Keshon Camp.  We've got a solid group there.  We should be able to play at least seven guys I would think, and we'll find out if that eighth guy comes through.  We'll see what these freshmen have, too.
Q. In terms of the secondary, having a lot of veteran leadership back there, do you feel like this is starting to take on a persona of that elite secondary you had at Michigan State?
PAT NARDUZZI: You know, you hope.  I mean, every year -- I wish we would have had it last year, you hoped you had it the year before, and I think we make strides every year, but I look back there and I think we've got three starting corners.  I think we've got three starting safeties with Damar, Paris and Stocker, and at the corner with J. Penny and Dane Jackson as well as Damarri Mathis, I think all three.  So we've got really -- there's no drop-off when you put that other guy in there.  That's major.  We really haven't had that depth back there, and I think when you're able to do that and you can give a guy fresh legs, take three plays off and go back out there -- I think anytime a kid has got to play 75 snaps, and we hope we don't have to play 95, but when you're playing those tempo teams and you can put a guy in and there's no drop-off, and it might even be a step up -- you might find a guy that steps up.  I mean, Damarri Mathis, his numbers in the weight room this summer -- I think he's a 40-inch vertical jump, he's the highest in the room.  You look at that guy, there's some impressive things going on.
Q. Kylan Johnson kind of came over after spring ball.  Did you bring him in more because you think you needed him or the talent was too good to pass up?
PAT NARDUZZI: You know what, we watched tape on his.  I just thought he fit our scheme.  That linebacker crew, if you looked -- and again, we obviously didn't recruit him right at the end.  We were recruiting him for a while before he came on campus and before he made a decision.  I think he made a decision probably three weeks after a Texas visit, three weeks after a visit.  But that's after maybe a month of recruiting him.
But if you would have looked at our linebacker position prior to, you lose a hell of a linebacker in Wirginis, Quintin.  You lose a guy that was an all-conference player at one point in his career, Seun Idowu, and obviously Elijah Zeise, you lose three starting linebackers.  And we've got some young talented guys that are inexperienced, as well, and to bring a grad transfer in that you deal with for one year that is smart, he's athletic, and he fits really what we do -- didn't play as much at Florida with a new staff coming in and maybe stuff that they didn't want -- than what we want.
So it's all kind of what you want as a football coach.  I think he fits in with our football team, and I think he's having fun, and I'm interested to see what he's got.
There's competition really -- there's competition at that receiver spot, that linebacker spot there's competition.  And when you've got three corners that you say are starters, which one is going to start?  I can't tell you.  We're going to find out how they compete in the off-season here, or I should say in August, and the same thing at every position.
So there's competition on the O-line.  I don't know what that right side of that line is going to be.  I mean, really -- Carter Warren is a starter at left tackle coming out, but shoot, he might not be come August 31st, who knows.  But our kids are competing, and there's no positions really that you can say it's done, he's that guy.
That's not what we want.  We want competition at every position, and if I had to pick the position where there's more competition than ever, I would say it's at linebacker.  You've got Saleem Brightwell and Elias Reynolds.  Both those guys have started at the Mike linebacker before, and then you've got Chase Pine, who's also started against Stanford, so there's a lot of guys that have started different games at different positions, so there's a lot of competition at that linebacker spot.
Q. Which of those three linebacker positions do you think Kylan fits in the best?
PAT NARDUZZI: You know, when you watch him run around out there and you look at him, it's like he looks like he could play anything, size-wise, athletic ability-wise, but I think he could fit into the star or the money, field or boundary, I think, athletically.  That's where we're going to put our best athletes.  So I think he could play either one of those.  I think we are going to start off really putting him in the boundary.
We started off the spring with Phil Campbell, who did an outstanding job in the spring to the field, but then Phil played in the boundary, so we're going to move those guys around because we're ultimately always going to look to see how can we get our three best linebackers on the field.  If one goes down, we're not necessarily going to put his backup in.  We may take a guy from the money position and move him to the field or vice versa.
We're always going to try to get our best three players on the field, regardless of their position.
Q. Do you think Saleem would work at all --
PAT NARDUZZI: Yes.  We're going to find our three best.  I don't want to be pigeonholed into just saying that he's only that and that's all you can do, and he's played that position before.  He played it in the spring.
Q. Were you surprised that you lost your holder so late in the summer, and what's your next move there?
PAT NARDUZZI: Not surprised at all.  You live and learn, and we wish Jake luck wherever he lands.  But not surprised at all.  We worked obviously several different holders, but you kind of see the writing sometimes.  He's got a brother that's really talented coming in that's like all the kids are looking like, holy cow.  He might be the next best kicker.  So you see things that happen like that, and then you know some other issues maybe during the year.
He was in the transfer portal early because he's a good kicker.  I mean, that guy is a talented kicker that can go play somewhere else, and I'd let him get in the portal.  I said, You need to go, it'll be good for you.  If someone can give you a scholarship -- he's a walk-on, so we've got other guys that can hold him.  We've got another guy that can kick, too.
Q. Who would be the holder?
PAT NARDUZZI: You know, I don't even want to get into it.  But we've got plenty.  You'll watch it out there tomorrow.  I'll let you figure that out.  But we're going to work three or four guys.  Obviously we're going to work our quarterback positions.  I are think it's always great when you've got a quarterback back there.  You might even see Kenny Pickett doing it.  But we're going to work our quarterbacks and receivers, guys that catch the ball every day.
And it's really ultimately, I'm not picking the holder, the guy that's got to pick that holder is Kessman.  Alex will pick the holder.  It's who he feels comfortable with.  I want that guy walking out every snap and saying, that's my guy.
Q. Do you expect to get more production out of the tight end this year?
PAT NARDUZZI: Yes.
Q. Why is that?
PAT NARDUZZI: Yes.  (Laughter.)
Why is that?  Number one, because I think -- I don't know if I'm allowed to talk about it, but I don't think we have a tight end committed to us right now, and I think after they watch us being able to at least throw the ball to the tight end, there's going to be some tight ends that say, can I come?  Can I come?  I truly believe that, so I'm in no rush to just take a guy to take a guy.  But I think they'll be a lot more productive.
I think in the run game and the pass game, we'll just see more out of those guys.  I think Grant Carrigan has made some major improvements.  He's faster, you watch him, he's smoother.  He's going to be tougher.  A year later he's going to have a little bit more of everything.
Will Gragg, his body has changed.  I think he came here about 225 pounds, and I think he's 250.  He looks the part now.  I wondered if they had a weight room where he came from just looking at that, and when he got here, it's like, you were in a program for four years.  So Dave Andrews and our strength staff did an incredible job with him, and then Nakia, again, another one of those grad transfers we talked about with Nolan and Kylan, I think he's a special player, as well.  He runs well, he's smooth, he's smart, and you know, anybody that hasn't really played for us, I don't really have at Media Day today because they haven't taken a snap, but we'll surely give those two guys to you one at a time so you can get a chance to know those guys here probably earlier than later.
Q. You said there's competition at every position.  Is there competition at quarterback?
PAT NARDUZZI: Well, if Kenny throws picks every series, there certainly will be.  When I say that, every position, those guys can tell you, there ain't no competition, I got it, which is confidence.  But if Kenny doesn't do his job, yeah.  Right now there's not, but what's Nick Patti going to do?  I want those guys to push Kenny, just like at every position.  No different than when I was back in school and you always kind of looked in the rear-view mirror to see, what are those young guys doing?  I'd better get my tail going.  In my opinion there was never competition at my spot at linebacker, but you're always going like this to find out who's back there and who's coming after you, and I hope that's at every position.  That's competition.  We want Nick Patti to compete, we want Jeff George to compete.
Q. Does the offense need to evolve?  You guys did it kind of hard-nosed, you had two great running backs and the line did a great job.  When you look around the country at large, the teams that are the most successful are the teams that can be more dynamic.  We talked about we have to define who we are.  Is that a major point of emphasis?
PAT NARDUZZI: We want to obviously score more touchdowns.  The offense, they break every day on touchdown.  I like that.  Touchdowns are good.  We want to score.  We want to be more explosive.  How are we going to do that?  That's something we'll see August 31st, but yeah, we need to evolve.  We need to evolve on defense.  We need to evolve on special teams.  We've got some new things on special teams, as well.  I think every year we try to evolve.
No, I don't like to be one-dimensional, and I think again, as a defensive guy, historically any time you make an offense one-dimensional -- and we like to make people one-dimensional.  We want to make them pass it, but if all you can do is run the ball, that's a problem.  If I know that's all you're going to do is run the ball, I'm going to load the box.
So it's either way, I think all great offenses are ones that you're worried about, okay, and Clemson is one of them, you're worried about the run and the pass.  And when a defense has to worry about both is when you've got problems.  We'd like to be 50/50, we'd like to be more balanced, and we've got to threaten people through the air as well as the run, and we're going to threaten you on the ground, I can promise you that.  But we've got to start to threaten people in the passing game, and we will.
Q. This is a little bit off the wall --
PAT NARDUZZI: I expect that.  We're healthy, let me start injury wise.  We're healthy, I feel good.  There's really nobody that's out that we didn't expect to be out.  Everybody is ready to go.  But go ahead with your off-the-wall question.
Q. Especially in training camp is there a certain number of hours you want your guys to get sleep at night?  It's lights out at 10:45, right?
PAT NARDUZZI: They're in their rooms at 10:30 and lights out at 10:45, so if you're trying to go through the hallways up there, stay out of the darned hotel.  Bring a flashlight.  But at 10:45 the lights should be out.  If you see a lot of lights up on the sixth floor, hopefully it's a coach --
Q. Do you want them to get a certain number of hours of sleep?
PAT NARDUZZI: Yeah, we do.  It's all about that.  Our kids, we give couple days off and they come back four pounds lighter.  It's like, what did you eat.  We bring them back here, we feed these guys.  Nutritionally we do an unbelievable job of feeding our guys, and then when they go away from us and they don't have Kevin Blynn cooking for them every day, they kind of -- if that meal is not sitting right in front of them and saying here you go, they don't eat it.  The way we hydrate, the way we feed them and then sleep, those things are all critical.  I've told them, they probably get sick of hearing me.  We can have all those things on the wall back there, but if you don't take care of you body, your body is not going to take care of you, and it's as simple as -- if you put the wrong gasoline, you put water in your gas tank, you're going to struggle as you go down the road here, and you've got to take care of your car.  You've got to change the oil, you've got to do all those little things to make sure that thing is running smoothly.
Q. They have to be here at 6:00 a.m.; is that right?
PAT NARDUZZI: No, no, I think wake-up was 6:30 or something like that.  They're back in their rooms -- I think we broke last night at 9:00 or 8:30.  We had an 8:30 team meeting last night, so they were out of here by 9:00, but half of them are sitting in here watching -- the big thing is getting them to go to bed.  They're used to waking up early in the morning.  We've got them on that schedule.  But go to bed at night, a lot of these guys like to go back, they brought their video games to the hotel, but just getting them to shut it down, turn their phones off, meditate before you go to bed.  That's the key.  But we want -- sleep is important, yeah.  I go in the rooms last night, they're rolling out, they've got those little -- I don't know what they call those hammers that are -- it's amazing, our kids are taking care of their bodies in the room.  Now, what time they go to bed, I can't tuck them in.  We check them.  I'm knocking on every door or they're having them propped open.  I'm checking rooms to make sure they're in their rooms and in bed, and last night on the sixth floor, which is where I stay, I would say 80 to 90 percent were already laying in bed at 10:45.  That's a good thing.  There's a couple guys that are rolling out on the floor and just stretching out.  It's hilarious to see guys stretch out, but that means it's important to them, which is good.  No video games.
Q. I was going to say, no Fortnite tournaments?
PAT NARDUZZI: I didn't see any Fortnite.  I didn't see any of that.  I actually used to walk some rooms, guys were on the internet reading what you guys are saying.  I'm going, what are you guys reading what Chris Peak is talking about?  This is not here, like why were you reading Rivals and whatever it is.  You're right here, you don't have to read what they're saying.  Put that stuff away.  But I've seen guys in there on their computers at their desk looking to see what they're saying on the internet.  So it was good.  I didn't really see too many people on their phones.  A couple guys were probably talking to their girlfriends.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT