OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 11, 2010
Lynn Kenny
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Obviously you kept your card this season. How do you feel about it overall?   
 LYNN KENNY: Well, I had a really good start to the season and kind of -- it was all going to plan and I made the first 12 cuts I think it was. And then I got into the British, as well, so everything was kind of ticking along nicely. I was making good second rounds, following up with good third rounds, which is kind of what I've not done in the past.   
 Got to the British, which was a massive goal of mine, a huge, huge pinnacle of mine if you like, and after that, I don't know what happened. I missed every cut for the last eight events, and it was just heartbreaking.  
 So I don't know what happened. I need to really think about what it was, whether it was stamina or fitness or whether mentally I just got tired perhaps after the British, because it was such an up-and-down week with qualifying and then I was in a playoff; am I in or am I not.   
 And the week itself is obviously huge for me, and personally, just to be playing there and stuff. I don't know if I was just a bit tired going into Ireland mentally. And I just never caught up because I was eight weeks on the run after that.   
 So maybe in hindsight if I had not done Ireland I might have done better. But really frustrating finish to the year because great start. I was delighted with how I started.  
  
  Q. You might look at scheduling a bit for next year?  
 LYNN KENNY: You would never look at Ireland as one to miss. I would never take it off. Even now I would still say it would be ridiculous. But thinking of how I felt from the British, maybe it was more how I need to recover from the big events. I was just knackered.   
 I was not in good form in Ireland and then the negative thoughts start coming back. Instead of the positive run that I was on; I started doubting myself, didn't trust myself, my putting went off which if you're not putting well, you're dead. You have to make the putts. And at the start of the year I was putting great and that's the main difference.  
  
  Q. Is that something that you were going well?   
 LYNN KENNY: Yeah, it's all glaringly obvious. Even this week, Liz Esterl's caddie, I don't know if he had worked it out or whether he was just plucking a number out of the sky, he said, "If you could putt you could be 10-under," and he wasn't far wrong. I had so many chances. I'm hitting my driver great, rarely missed fairways, put good iron shots in and I'm just not converting. It's glaringly obvious.   
  
  Q. Do you have a putting coach specifically?  
 LYNN KENNY: No. I've got a swing coach, Kevin Craggs, and like I say he got me putting really well at the start of the year but whatever it was, I just didn't take it until the end of season. Didn't trust it again. I was just not setting up properly. It was something small. It wasn't drastically off but enough to just not hole the putts again and just not aggressive with the stroke which you have to be as well.  
  
  Q. You'll go back and see him?  
 LYNN KENNY: Absolutely. The problem is I'll go and put with him and hole everything I look at. So it's maybe a psychological thing I don't know. I'm talk to him about it.   
  
  Q. Do you feel you finished well?   
 LYNN KENNY: Well first time I've made the cut here. I find it quite a long course for me, a lot of sort of woods into par 4s and things. It's a tough course, and the putting has to be good here and even like a miss-hit put, you might think back home, you're not getting away with it at all, you have to hit every putt perfect.   
 I didn't at all the first few days, and got it going the back nine over the last round and came back in 3-under today which is nice, just finally sort of felt comfortable with the putter again and it's just a shame I can't start off with that kind of attitude. But that's again something I can work on.   
  
  Q. Next season will you set yourself goals?   
 LYNN KENNY: I don't know I'm obviously delighted I kept my card this year. Yeah, I need to think about next year what I need to do scheduling-wise, and obviously still desperate to win and get into the final groups for a few events and get that experience.   
 Just not really been there. So I need to get up in there because I know I've got the game to do it if I just laid it out. I'm getting in my own way almost.   
  
  Q. Would the Scottish Open be a special one for you?  
 LYNN KENNY: Yeah, it's back at Archerfield as far as I know. I think it's at Archerfield again. I had a decent first round this year, terrible second round and a good third round. So if I can kind of get rid of the daft scores I keep putting in mid-tournament I'll be up there without a doubt.  
  
  Q. Happy with your career, you want to stay in European golf for a few years? As long as you can?   
 LYNN KENNY: Yeah, I always said as long as I've got a card I'll keep going. I'm not going to ever go back to Q-School. If I'm at that point it's time to call it a day for me. I've been at it six years. When I first turned pro it was meant to be a few years to see how I got on and I'm still here.   
 Yeah, there's obviously -- not there's more to life than golf; if you're playing well, this is the best career you can have. But when you're not playing well, it's God awful.   
 So I'll just see how next year goes. If I struggle again, then it could quite possibly be my last year but if I have a good year, I could be at it for another ten. You just don't know.   
 I'm kind of at a crunch point of thinking, make or break, so I'm happy to go at it hard next year, give it my all and see what happens. If it's not good enough, it's not good enough.  
  
  Q. And off the course, how do you fill your time?  
 LYNN KENNY: I've actually got quite a boring life just now. I moved into a flat at the start of the year, so I'm really enjoying just like having my own time and my own space.   
 I live right in the centre of Stirling, so I can just walk into the shops and stuff. But the last -- I had about four weeks off after Spain, and I didn't hit a golf ball. I had a few Pro-Ams but that was it, and I was bored out of my skull because I had into routine to the day or anything. I kind of caught up with friends and do all of the tick list things that you do when you come back from a tournament and after that I had nothing else to do. I normally do gym in the morning, range in the afternoon and I see my coach at some point a couple of times during the week, so it's very routine.   
  
  Q. Will you be doing that over Christmas?   
 LYNN KENNY: Well, I'll have a few parties I'm sure over the break. I did say I haven't had a drink now for four weeks or something. I said after Dubai I'll let my hair down, so looking forward to a few weeks back home with my friends and catching up with everyone and enjoying the festivities.  
  
  Q. Scheduling-wise, where will you start your season?  
 LYNN KENNY: I'm hoping to go out to Australia at probably the end of January. I might look at going early to some of the Pro-Ams they have out there because it's great warm out and go straight into the season there after hopefully, do a bit of work, and then I presume it starts in April, and I'll just play in them all.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT