TOSTITOS FIESTA BOWL: STANFORD v OKLAHOMA STATE
December 28, 2011
Shaun Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  SHAUN LEWIS:   We take pride in everything.   We want to make our own defense.   We do what we can and just take what they say about us and add that to the fuel on the fire.

Q.   What are your birthday plans? 
SHAUN LEWIS:   I don't even know.   I kind of celebrated my birthday last night.

Q.   How old are you now? 
SHAUN LEWIS:   Twenty.
Just hanging out.

Q.   Is it weird to be away from home, or are you usually away from home on your birthday? 
SHAUN LEWIS:   I'm pretty much at home.   This past year I was in SanAntonio.   It is something I can get used to. 

Q.   Did you get any presents? 
SHAUN LEWIS:   Just the phone ringing off the hook and the gifts that the Bowl gives us.

Q.   Best present be a win? 
SHAUN LEWIS:   Oh, yeah.   Put that ring on my finger, that would be a nice birthday gift. 

Q.   You have never seen an offense like Stanford this year.   Can you compare them to any team you have seen?   I heard K‑State thrown around.   Luck won't pound the ball like Klein did.   Brodrick said Texas because the way they run the ball.   Is there any team they can compare them to? 
SHAUN LEWIS:   The closest team would be Texas A&M and OU because how balanced they are and they have a quarterback that can throw the ball as well as running.   I would say those two teams.

Q.   What kind of challenges does that present, you have seen a pro‑style offense for the first time? 
SHAUN LEWIS:   With the challenges we face, the things they like to do, they bring out the three tackle sets and running the big tight ends.   They want to establish the run first. 

Q.   Jamie said he was surprised when I first started watching film.   I didn't realize they didn't run the ball because everybody hears about Luck, Luck, Luck.   Was that probably the most surprising thing? 
SHAUN LEWIS:   That was definitely the most surprising.   I thought they would be a typical college spreading the ball out. 
They grind it out.   They want to run the power every play.   They do the running game.   They have a scheme most teams don't face.

Q.   Something has got to give if you force the turnovers.   So it will be a fun matchup. 
SHAUN LEWIS:   We just have to be patient and wait for those opportunities to come.   It might not be on defense.   They might be on special teams.   Give offense the ball back, whether it is defense or special teams, it could be in our favor.

Q.   The one knock against you guys has been the yards you have given up.   That's the way you like to play, is methodical, three yards per play, one of those types of things.   Not that you haven't been trying to get three and outs and short drives the whole season, but is that even more crucial to get your offense back on the field? 
SHAUN LEWIS:   We can get them at third and long, which they really get in, I think that would help us out.   We can get in those packages to stop the bass.   That will be the thing, getting them in third and long and getting some pressure on Luck.

Q.   It sounds like it might be a real basic football game.   We got a tackle and get third‑‑ third‑down punts. 
SHAUN LEWIS:   They do a good job of what they do.   So all we got to do is just get back to doing what we do, just be patient and waiting for our chances. 

Q.   Have you even glanced at the stat sheet or has Coach Young communicated to you that you finished with 42 takeaways?   I asked him what would the best‑case scenario have been.   He said 30‑something.   Obviously you exceeded that. 
SHAUN LEWIS:   We know how many turnovers we have and how many to break the national record.   That has been stressed to us.   Hopefully we can get four in this game.   But the chances of that happening are placed on a lot of things.   We are well aware of how many turnovers we have.

Q.   22 is Luck.   Weeden is 28.   But Luck's maturity and the way he handles himself on the football field, it is almost likehe and Weeden are the same guy. 
SHAUN LEWIS:   Yeah.   He is very sharp.

Q.   You can relate to how other teams feel when they play Weeden?
SHAUN LEWIS:   Yeah.   He reminds me a lot of Weeden.   He is not the same system, but team guys.   They run offense well.   Everything revolves around them. 
It is definitely a challenge facing a similar quarterback to ours.   Probably a little bit more press, but it is definitely a challenge. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT