NL DIVISION SERIES: DIAMONDBACKS v BREWERS
October 4, 2011
Kirk Gibson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You believed in the team from the beginning this year. What did you see that everybody else didn't see?  
 KIRK GIBSON: I think every year you just have to -- why show up if you don't believe in yourselves. You lay out a vision, a philosophy of how you want to accomplish a certain goal, and then you believe that you can get everybody to pull together.  
 We were able to do that, we worked hard during Spring Training and throughout the year. We had many tough stretches.   
 We've been talking today -- we talked a little bit about the 6-game losing streak, when we lost six 1-run games back in May, and ended up winning the next game 1-0 on a one-hitter. Josh Collmenter pitched that game, Melvin Mora got a sac fly, we went on to win 18 of, I think, our next 20.   
 It's just been the type of team we are. So we're well prepared for where we're at. It is what it is. And we're down by two games. We've had magic all year and been able to overcome it.  
  
  Q. Would you like to get J.J. in the game at some point today?  
 KIRK GIBSON: Yeah, I'd like him to close the game.   
  
  Q. Just so he stays fresh a little bit?  
 KIRK GIBSON: Again, we want to win the game. We'll do what we think is right to win the next game, as well. Obviously we have to do what we have to do to win this game today. If we don't win, we're going to go home.   
  
  Q. How's the mood in there today?  
 KIRK GIBSON: Have you been in there? It's normal. It's normal guys. They're ready to play. I think they're excited to be home, play at home, have our fans here tonight. We've got Collie on the mound. And we've played well here. I mean, I don't see any -- they're not tight. They're probably looser than they were the first game.   
  
  Q. After the kind of outing Brad Ziegler had the other day, is that something you talked to him about, does it change anything?   
 KIRK GIBSON: Yeah, I went up in workout yesterday and hugged him and told him I loved him. It's an outing to forget. And it's an outing to learn from. It's not characteristic of him. He's been outstanding for us. And he's a guy -- he's a ground ball machine. And he didn't get any the other day.   
 His arm feels fine and he'll be a guy that given the right situation, he's going to be back in there tonight. That's the only way to do it.  
  
  Q. How is Don Baylor doing?  
 KIRK GIBSON: Groove is fine. He was in there with Frank Robinson today and those guys telling stories back and forth. He looks great.   
 He did his thing in the cage today. The guys are ready to go. He's showing no effects at all after he rejoined us the following day of his spell.  
  
  Q. A question about J.J. Putz, again. The playoffs have a way of affecting even the most accomplished players. If I'm not wrong, this is going to be his first playoff appearance. Knowing that he's an intense guy and everything, tell us what you look from him and about his makeup, if you could talk about him?  
 KIRK GIBSON: J.J. has great makeup. I think he's well prepared for it. He's held up to the pressure all year. Other than putting him on the DL for a short period of time, we rode him hard. He knows what to do. He's been in some pretty bad situations this year. And you can just see, again, by his demeanor, he's made up for it. He's had a pretty good career already.  
 He wants to pitch tonight. He wants to save the game. And if we're ahead by five runs he's going to pitch. When it gets down to the last inning he's going to pitch.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT