NL DIVISION SERIES: CARDINALS VS CUBS
October 13, 2015
Stephen Piscotty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What's the feeling for you guys down 2-1 and how do you guys approach this game moving into today?  
STEPHEN PISCOTTY: Just going to approach the same as we've been doing all season long, just one game at a time.  It's all you can do, and obviously we all know what's at stake, and we're going to give it our best effort.   
 Q.  It seems like we're in an era with so many really good young players in Major League Baseball, your age or just a little bit younger, and I wonder if you've thought about any common denominators of why there are just so many now where we used to have a few every year, and this year crazy numbers.  Anything that comes to your mind with how you guys grew up or were developed?  
STEPHEN PISCOTTY: That's a good question.  I'm not sure I have a great answer for you on that.  There are a lot of talented young players, and that's a good question.  I'm not really sure, but it's fun to be a part of it, and I think a lot of teams, they look for having that veteran presence, and then also a lot of young guys that can follow along and contribute.   
 Q.  You guys had some pretty good success against the Cubs early in the season and then the games in the series got tighter as the year went along.  What have you seen from the Cubs this year in terms of their progression?  
STEPHEN PISCOTTY: Tough question for me because I wasn't up the whole year.  I'm not really sure.  The Cubs from what I could tell have been playing really good baseball down the stretch.  They're a good team.  It's a fun environment to play in front of, and I'm sure they're feeding off that.  But they're a good club.  They're well-managed.  They're a good competitor.   
 Q.  I spoke to you a year ago.  What has changed now that you're in the Big Leagues as far as game preparation when it comes to things like video and reports and related to that, how different is it preparing for this type of atmosphere as opposed to a Minor League atmosphere?  
STEPHEN PISCOTTY: Yeah, so there's definitely a lot more information here in the Big Leagues, and that can definitely help you.  I think it can also hurt you if you spend too much time and dig into it too much.  I think you've got to find that good balance.  It can definitely help.   
I think I've established a good routine with how I go about it, and I haven't tried to change that for the postseason at all.  And as far as for these games, we had a meeting before the postseason started and the veterans spoke up, shared some information about their experiences and advice they've gotten in the past that had helped them.  That definitely really helped my preparation.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT