VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 19, 2019
Nick Bolton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Vanderbilt - 21, Missouri - 14   
 Q.  Did anything feel different as opposed to the last few?  
NICK BOLTON: No, I just didn't play well. I think if I would have played better, we would have had a chance to win at the end, but overall I didn't think I played very well for four quarters, and I've just got to get better.   
 Q.  You had 15 tackles; where do you think you could have improved?  
NICK BOLTON: I mean, just communication-wise, if you have a bust or something tackling -- I missed a tackle, as well, so I missed a couple assignments, as well, so I've just got to get better.   
 Q.  The last drive, there were still six minutes on the clock, you guys get off the field, there's maybe another chance. How demoralizing is it --  
NICK BOLTON: It's not demoralizing. We've just got to go out and make a stop. We didn't make a stop. We didn't block down the field. They had four or five straight 1st downs. We've got to find a way to get off the field, and I've just got to get better. There's plays out there that I should have made, and I've just got to get better.   
 Q.  When you guys had those two narrow screens that you guys gave up, it looked like some of you guys kind of (indiscernible). What do you maybe need to fix?  
NICK BOLTON: Again, that was all my fault, my fault. I just got to get better. I missed an assignment. Something I worked on during the week, and I just had a bust. I've just got to get better.   
 Q.  There seemed to be a couple misdirection type plays where everyone was fooled but you. Was that something you concentrate on?  
NICK BOLTON: Well, everybody was just doing their jobs to the best of their abilities, and my job was just to stay inside out on the ball and just make a tackle, and that's what I did, and that's just part of our scheme, and that's how we practiced it.   
 Q.  What do you say to your team in the locker room after that?  
NICK BOLTON: We've got a lot of football to play ahead of us, a lot of SEC still ahead of us, and we've got to come in and play every game and leave it all out there for the rest of the season.   
 Q.  What was the conversation like at halftime when you guys were down 14-7 to a team you guys probably felt you should have beaten?  
NICK BOLTON: I mean, it wasn't -- after going around, we've just got to be more assignment sound. We talked about doing our jobs, doing our jobs better. We came out, did our jobs better. We had a missed tackle, but again, you can point at any play in the football game, we've just got to get better.   
 Q.  120 penalty yards; do you think that was more Vandy putting you guys into spots or you guys not staying disciplined?  
NICK BOLTON: Just a lack of discipline overall. Like I said, we've got to get better. Our detail has got to be improved if we're going to win football games going forward.   
 Q.  How do you get better with penalties? Can you practice --  
NICK BOLTON: It's the simplest thing, onsides. Jordan, that's my dude. I'm not going to bash him, that's my job. He came up after the game and said that was on him. We accept accountability. Pass interference, extra hands after the plays over personal fouls and stuff like that, we can't have that going forward.   
 Q.  This is a team that just won five games in a row. Is it almost hard to believe that this is the result out here?  
NICK BOLTON: I mean, it was hard to believe for us, yes, but like I said, you can play in the SEC, and anybody can beat anybody, and we didn't come out here and play our best football, and that's the result when you don't play your best.   
 Q.  Is there anything you kind of saw from their offense that surprised you?  
NICK BOLTON: Not really surprised. We went over during the week of practice most everything that they had. They had a couple kinks in what they did, but I'm saying from week to week, you've got to beat somebody who has something for your scheme, and they've got a great coach, and they exploited some things about our scheme.   
 Q.  I know Ole Miss had success with using multiple quarterbacks against you guys. Do you think Vanderbilt might have had similar success with their multiple quarterbacks?  
NICK BOLTON: Most of their yards came from No. 5, the running back. He was the constant in the game. You look at the total yards, he probably had the majority of those yards for the game. I wouldn't say it's the quarterbacks, it's just us being assignment sound, doing our jobs. We executed for five games, and then we had a low game here, so we've just got to get better.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT