NCAA WOMEN'S 1ST & 2ND ROUNDS: WEST LAFAYETTE
March 16, 2012
Aaron Johnston
Jennie Sunnarborg
Jill Young
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:     Like to welcome the Jackrabbits of South Dakota State.   We'd like to welcome South Dakota State obviously head Coach Aaron Johnston.   We are joined by Jennie Sunnarborg and Jill Young. 
I know you played Purdue at the start of last season in the preseason NIT, if you would talk about how your team has evolved since that point.
COACH JOHNSTON:   Let's hope a lot.   I think our team would agree that that was not a very productive game for us.   It's really hard to talk about that game and then think about where we are at right now.   We just played really poorly in that game, and that has to do with Purdue being a very good team and us just not having a very good day. 
This year I think we have played really good basketball.   Jennie and Jill have been very good seniors for us.   We have had ups and downs this year, too, but Jennie and Jill have done a great job of leading the team and being consistent every day and when we have had a couple of bumps in the road, I think to their credit, they have done a great job of getting back right away in the next practice or next game and keep us going in the direction we need ti.
This is our fourth trip to the NCAA Tournament.   Jennie and Jill have been a part of all four of those, which is quite a feat, considering it's the first four chances we've had as a program.   But it's exciting to see what these two have done throughout their career, and it's exciting to see where they have helped get our program.

Q.   How have you adjusted without Steph?   Are you much different or what do you anticipate tomorrow? 
COACH JOHNSTON:   Good question, I think losing Steph Paluch in the semifinals of the conference tournament was a big blow.   I don't know that we are different offensively or defensively in what we do or what we are trying to get accomplished on court but we are different in our rotation. 
Steph was really playing well in the month of February at that off‑guard spot.   Earlier in the year, she started the point, would have played the point for us here, was well in the preseason WNIT.   But she really is more of a true two‑guard.   And as the season evolved, she got to be really, really good in that position. 
So we lose her numbers.   She hit a lot of big shots for us down the stretch at particular times, very good defensive player.   So really we lose that extra person in the rotation.   Really does not change our offense or defense that much. 

Q.   Coach mentioned this your fourth NCAA Tournament; what are your motions knowing that this is your last NCAA Tournament? 
JENNIE SUNNARBORG:   The most important thing that we have to think about is that you have to keep going no matter what, and everything will‑‑ the game is either win or loss, and you either keep playing or you're done.   I know that's been in the back of my mind, and we don't want our season to be over and we are going to fight as much as we can to keep going. 
JILL YOUNG:   I agree with Jennie.   Like she said, it's either you win or you're done.   So we are definitely going to leave it all on the floor.   This is our last chance to help move our program forward.   So we are going to be ready to go. 

Q.   Coach had mentioned the game last year, but did you take extra motivation?   It's the NCAA Tournament obviously so that would seem to be plenty, but is there n extra motivation going into the game because of what happened last year? 
JENNIE SUNNARBORG:   I definitely think‑‑ I mean, you never want a loss on your record and that one was not a great one, especially.   And you know, I think we are a better team than what we have been against Big Ten teams, and you know, we just want to be a good team whether we are playing in the Summitt League or we are playing nationally. 
Just something that we have, I guess not been focused on, but we want it back and, you know, we are a better team than what we have been; that we have shown so far. 
JILL YOUNG:   Yeah, it definitely wasn't our prettiest game of the year last year.   I think we are a way different team than we were at that point.   But that's, I guess, not really our driving, motivating factor. 

Q.   As you look at Purdue now, what do you see?   Obviously they don't have Drey who you saw last year and they could have KK Houser back.   How much does that change them, and how different are they this season than last? 
COACH JOHNSTON:   Well, I think if you look at Purdue traditionally, excellent team in the halfcourt.   They really get the ball to who they want to take shots and where they want them to take shots and when they want them to take shots.   It's a little more guard orientated now. 
All three of those perimeter players make a ton of plays for them offensively.   They use their posts in a really smart way.   They are not necessarily primary options offensively, but they still get them the ball when they need shots. 
But I think the thing that stands out in my mind, last year and this year, is just how well they execute in the halfcourt.   We really struggled with defending them last year.   We just didn't get through screens very well.   We didn't take away certain things we wanted to try and take away, and the game kind of got away from us offensively.
Defensively, I think they are really the same; they do a great job of executing a half‑court plan.   They try to take certain players or option as way from what we will want to do.   We really noticed that in watching last year's film.
So we have to be better in how we execute on our end of the ball especially in the halfcourt especially.

Q.   Can you talk about the development of Sam Ostarello from what you've seen previously?
COACH JOHNSTON:   That's what I talk about when they use their post players in a smart way.   Sam is an example of someone that fits very well with what Purdue does.   She doesn't necessarily start their offensive possessions.   But she is a great screener, great passer and can score when she needs to and score when she has chances to and she rebounds really well within their offense and just fits really well with those there perimeter players that are very aggressive and can take a lot of shots. 
Sam is not the kind of player that has to have the ball in her hands all the time to be effective in the game; because she passes it so well and rebounds so well, she really complements what the perimeter players do. 
So it's really no surprise.   We saw Sam play in high school more than any other college program in the country by far.   So we really thought this would be something that she could do and accomplish.   She's having a great year. 

Q.   Your thoughts on just the matchup, you're getting a team that is willing and likes to log it out in the halfcourt, which you have done this year, a little different style than you've had in the past.   Can that work to your advantage?   Is that almost better than playing a team that's going to run all over and try to force 40 turnovers and that kind of thing? 
JILL YOUNG:   Yeah, you know, I think so.   Like you say, they are really good on the halfcourt offensively, and we are going to have to play tough defense and keep them off the o‑boards. 
And then offensively, we are still going to try and push it when we can and run when we can.   But you know, off the block, give them a half‑court offense and just be aggressive at taking it to the basket and finishing. 

Q.   Looking back for the summer League Championships, obviously we had it right in Sioux Falls, calling the fans the sixth player, not having that auditorium full of yellow and blue tomorrow; is that going to add any level of difficulty to the game? 
COACH JOHNSTON:   It definitely changes things.   We had I think averaged 5,000 people for our conference tournament games in Sioux Falls, and that's quite an advantage for us and that's pretty clear.   Now you flip it around and you can have that and then some here tomorrow rooting against us. 
But that's the model that works in the NCAA Tournament.   We know that going into it.   There are a number of host sites and host seeds and they are going to have that same advantage and that's what works right now in women's basketball in the NCAA Tournament.
It does make it a little bit more challenging, but it also makes it a good atmosphere.   It makes it what you want to feel like in the NCAA Tournament.   There's no value for any of our teams that are here going to an empty arena just to have a neutral site so to speak.   It does make it more difficult without a doubt and does make Purdue a better team here at home, but it does also add to the overall event, as well. 
JENNIE SUNNARBORG:   It's going to be a challenge for us but our fans have been great all year and we will have a good crowd all year.   Just kind of create our energy from our players and our players. 
JILL YOUNG:   I guess I agree with everything they said.   It's already a fun atmosphere.   We have been in these environments before, and even though it's not our home floor and all of our fans, it's still a good atmosphere out on the floor. 
Like Jennie said, we will be ready to bring our own energy on the bench and out on the floor. 

Q.   Fourth year in a row, how much does that give you guys to be able to prepare for this?   You know what you're getting yourself into; this isn't anything new for you. 
COACH JOHNSTON:   Well, I think it's helped us prepare for things like this.   We had all of these questions you've asked so far were well scripted and prepared in advance; so our fourth year has paid off for us already.
I just think all of the different, I would say logistics, that go into this event.   It is very different.   You have to get here earlier.   There's a bit more security.   There's more media.   It's how the practices.
So it's not like a road game, and you don't want it to be like a road game.   If that's the case, there's no reason to have an NCAA Tournament.   So the fact that it's different is good but having been in it enough we are just not really surprised that, boy, I didn't expect this kind of thing.
It really becomes more about the game, and I hope that it translates to having some success out on the court.   We can really focus on Purdue and make that be the most important part of it.
THE MODERATOR:   Jennie or Jill, do you have a scripted reply for that question?   Players will pass.   Go ahead, next question. 

Q.   Jennie, the Purdue men play tonight in the tournament.   Your guys played last night.   New experience.   Did you guys watch the game?   What were your thoughts on just having that, probably a little fun distraction along your own trip? 
JENNIE SUNNARBORG:   It was.   The fact that we got here yesterday was good.   We kind of got relaxed in the hotel and everything.   Going out to watch the men play, it was fun, and got to hang out with the team.   You know, we would have been doing that whether we were here or not. 
It was fun to watch and it was good for our program, and the emotions that went through.   And the fact that our men didn't win the game, you know, I guess we want us to pull it off I guess.   But it's good for our program either way. 

Q.   Jill, if you can go back to the conference championship, at the free throw line with seven seconds left, did you have any time to think about the enormity of what you're doing, shooting free throws for what could be your last NCAA Tournament berth, and since then, have you thought about if you had missed the free throws? 
JILL YOUNG:   I guess just try to keep it simple.   Really I had no doubt, or I guess no negative thinking; just knew that they were going to go in.   I don't know, like I said before, I shot a lot of free throws in my life, so I guess it was just kind of in the flow (ph), I don't know. 

Q.   What was going through your mind when you saw her at the free throw line with seven seconds?
COACH JOHNSTON:   I actually thought about using your same line:   Jill, if you miss these, you realize you will not go back to the NCAA Tournament.   But then I think probably better judgment overcame. 
I really, honestly for not one second doubted that she would make them.   Jill is a very, very good shooter.   I can't remember her record, 160‑some‑‑ I probably shorted you a couple, is that right.   There was really no doubt in anybody's mind that she was going to make both of those.   If you saw her body language and been around Jill a lot, she looked very calm and very comfortable.   As a coach, you can always tell if someone is out of their routine and she wasn't.   I think we all knew she was going to make it.

Q.   Your free throw shooting, how many have you hit in a row at one point in your life? 
JILL YOUNG:   21.

Q.   All these in games?
JILL YOUNG:   No, just in the gym. 

Q.   When did the free throw shooting become the thing for you; at what age? 
JILL YOUNG:   I guess I went to a lot of like free throw contests, like Elks free throw contests and stuff, back when I was seven, eight years old.   And so was doing I guess pressure situations back then, state contests and regional contests and stuff, way back when, probably when the form wasn't the best and used two hands.

Q.   The fact that most of your team played in this arena last year, is there a comfortable feeling with the surroundings?   Does that help ease any nerves that you might have to start the game? 
JENNIE SUNNARBORG:   I think so.   We know the atmosphere and we know who is going to draw a pretty good crowd.   Yeah, I think it's comfortable to say that we have played on this court and are ready to go.

Q.   How difficult has it been to get DivisionI opponents to try to come up to South Dakota and play a game?   I think your program has risen to the national level with some of the things you've done over the years? 
COACH JOHNSTON:   It could be a challenge.   I tell our staff the two most important things we do as a staff are recruit and also schedule.   I don't know if all coaches put that in that order but we need to because of where we are at.   You really just have to find the right programs, and there are a group of women's programs out there who are I think committed to challenging their teams and also helping women's basketball grow at the same time. 
So for instance next year, we'll have Nebraska at our place and Marquette at our place.   This year we had Washington at our place and Kansas State at our place.   You know, we have had teams that have done that. 
But there are certainly a handful of teams in our Midwestern area that just won't consider playing us at their place, or certainly coming back.   So we just have to be really proactive in trying to identify the teams that are willing to do it.   We do run into some walls that are difficult. 

Q.   When Purdue was up earlier, they talked a lot about how much momentum they felt they had for winning their conference tournament.   For you guys, the only way you get into the tournament to do that.   That said, do you guys feel like that, momentum from doing that or is it a different thing in a non‑BCS conference?
JILL YOUNG:   Yeah, I think so.   Just I guess our last, I don't know how many games, I think we have just been playing well together and definitely had to overcome some things in the conference tournament that I think pulled us together; just coming down from 17 and just fighting through that, I think it added on and gave us good experience and also momentum coming into the tournament. 

Q.   On paper, you guys and Purdue, especially in things like bench scoring and offensive output and defensive scoring average, very similar, and yet the teams are not very similar.   What do you see there in terms of differences or why the teams get sort of the same results maybe in different manners? 
COACH JOHNSTON:   You're asking me to compare our team to our past teams? 

Q.   No.   You guys and Purdue in terms of scoring defense and scoring offense, pretty similar numbers and yet different styles. 
COACH JOHNSTON:   Well, I just think, like I said at the beginning, the offense is so efficient.   So they can score 65 and 70 points in a game, and for us that might mean a lot of possessions and for them that might mean very few possessions.   Just because they make so many shots, they don't turn it over.   They just get so much out of each possession I think. 
And then defensively, I think they are just really good at taking things away from you.   They really do go into a game plan and figure out, one, two, three, four, they are not going to do.   They have to do to five, six and seven. 
For us, we are very different than them.   We don't go into a game and just say, we need to take player a out.   We have an overall scheme that we use, and then we'll vary it based on the teams that we play a little bit.   Same thing offensively.   We have got kind of a universal philosophy and we'll throw some things in here or there that we think will be effective against our next opponent, in this case Purdue. 
But I think they are very different styles.   Not better, worse; just very different styles.   But they are just so efficient.   They get so much out of each possession on both ends, and I think they are deceiving.   So they are not a team that runs up‑and‑down but they score a lot of points, considering they are very good on the halfcourts. 

Q.   Of the national prominence that SDSU has garnered over the last couple of years, and it ties into with Sam on the other side, it sounded like by all inclusive accounts, she was about to sign with SDSU and spurned you for a Big Ten team.   Do you feel like you don't have to worry about that as much with the area opponents because of how much success you've had in the last couple years?
COACH JOHNSTON:   Area opponents or area recruits? 

Q.   Area recruits.   Just deciding to go with a bigger squad or stay with you. 
COACH JOHNSTON:   I think recruiting is always going to be a challenge for us.   You walk around the new facility here at Purdue you, and see what they have to offer and if you put yourselves in the shoes of somebody who is 17 or 18, you can kind of see how they are going to migrate towards some of these bells and whistles. 
But we also have a lot of players that have come to South Dakota State because of what we offer over some bells and whistles.   Kind of like in scheduling, you have to find the people that are really looking for what we offer and the kind of game they are going to get. 
We have to be selective about the young people we recruit and that they have to want something that South Dakota State offers over some of these other schools. 
We don't change the type of player we want to recruit.   We don't say, well, we can't recruit her because she's too good.   We have never taken that approach.   We have a lot of people on our team that were recruited by I think BCS‑level schools and chose to come to South Dakota State for our reasons.   It's about being very selective and making sure we identify who is going to be excited about us at an early time. 

Q.   This time of year, there's a lot of focus on X's and O's, people say, if you need motivation right now, you're in the wrong business.   That said, is this the motivation, or have you talked to teams about, time to get out of the first round; has that idea come up? 
COACH JOHNSTON:   Yeah, we have been out of the first round before.   So it's not as if we can't accomplish that. 
But we did talk about it this week; the importance of not being content.   I don't think anybody ever goes into an NCAA Tournament and says, oh, that's great, let's see how it goes and go back about our lives. 
Really trying to hammer that point home; that if we want to go forward, it's going to be based on something that we have to do in the game and not just show up for the game and kid of hope things go well. 
That doesn't mean we came up with a Purdue package that's going to put us over the hump because of the great X's and O's, but it's going to be hopefully because of our approach and our last few practices and practice day approach to the game.   We just have to be far more tenacious than we have been the last couple years.   I think our team the last few years wanted to win, too.   It's tough to beat Oklahoma.   They went to the Final Four, so I think they proved to be‑‑ tough to beat Xavier and they were a top five team.   Our opponents had something to do with that.
But we have to be really tenacious and approach this as if we are going to figure out a way to win no matter what happens. 
THE MODERATOR:   Coach and Ladies, thank you very much and good luck in your game tomorrow afternoon.





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT