UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 28, 2019
Khalid Kareem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Virginia - 20 - Notre Dame - 35   
 Q.  When the defensive line is just getting relentless pressure on them, how fun is that to be out there and playing in that?  
KHALID KAREEM: It was exciting just to see all your brothers go out and just produce, all the work that we put in over the years is finally coming to fruition, happy for all our guys.   
 Q.  How upset are you that Myron didn't run those last five yards into the end zone?  
KHALID KAREEM: A little upset that he didn't score, but I'm happy for my guy. It's great for him.   
 Q.  Eight sacks. Does that number even like register in your mind for one game, that's a lot, so...  
KHALID KAREEM: Yeah, it's pretty exciting, but we got to stay consistent and don't let this be a one-time thing, have the same preparation week-in and week-out and the production will come.   
 Q.  Did something change today or, even more specific, in the third quarter, that allowed you guys to finally get the pressure you probably expected coming into the season?  
KHALID KAREEM: I don't think anything really changed, we just kept coming, didn't back down. We understand the D-line we're the tip of the spear and everything starts with us so we just kept coming and sacks came.   
 Q.  Coming into the week you knew Bryce Perkins would be a challenge. You kind of adjusted the in-house definition of sacks this week, but it didn't matter. What did he present?  
KHALID KAREEM: Just contain him inside the pocket, making sure that he doesn't have any running lanes, just collapsing the B gaps and don't give him anywhere to run and that's what we did the whole game and got the W.   
 Q.  You said after last game something to the effect of, good luck to our next opponent, expressing frustration with your result. Was there an extra edge to you guys this week after falling short last week?  
KHALID KAREEM: A little edge but honestly we're just the same team coming day-in and day-out, prepared the same way. We just knew that we had to make a statement today and we did it. We got to stay consistent with that.   
 Q.  Got into the third quarter and the offense was struggling to put up points a little bit. Did you guys feel on your side of the ball that you needed to make the kind of play that could turn the game around?  
KHALID KAREEM: We have the mentality that if we're up all we have to do as a defense is to stop the offense from scoring. If our offense, if they don't score another point and we keep our opponents to zero, then we're good, we'll win, so, yeah.   
 Q.  Jamir Jones. What's it been like for him kind of caught with one foot in and one foot out depending upon his situation with the four games this year. What's it been like for him?  
KHALID KAREEM: He's always the same guy every day. High energy, always the guy you want to be around. He embraces his role, his number was called and he stepped up big time and we're happy for him.   
 Q.  How would you describe his game?  
KHALID KAREEM: He's smart. He used to be a linebacker so he knows what's always going on. So that's how he helps me out personally, he always tells me like whatever formation's coming this is the play, so he's just a very smart football player I think.   
 Q.  With the expectations so high on you and Okwara and maybe not getting the numbers the first couple games, does frustration creep in at all?  
KHALID KAREEM: No, I mean production will come, as long as I do my job, I wasn't really concerned about it. Yeah, other people have sacks, but as long as I do my job then sacks will come and they came today.   
 Q.  In preparing for Perkins on film, did you see something there that made it lend itself that this thing would happen with the statistical production?  
KHALID KAREEM: No, I was just saying we trusted in our D-line that we can get off the quarterback and that's what we did. We saw a few tendencies with their O-line and we got after him and got some sacks.   
 Q.  The offense was kind of struggling a little bit today, you guys have really been a spark for the offense this season getting turnovers. Do you feel any added pressure that you need to make plays to help the offense kind of get going, get them better field position?  
KHALID KAREEM: No, not really. We have the offense's back, they have ours. So when their back is against the wall we show up for them, so we're not really concerned about that. We're one team, so as long as one side of the ball's making plays then we're all good.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT