WNBA ALL-STAR GAME
July 12, 2006
Katie Douglas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  Q.  (Inaudible).   
 KATIE DOUGLAS:  I think for me individually, it was.  Having Lindsay Whalen out there as point guard primarily at the time I was out there, she knows where I like the ball.  She knows my good spot.  As a shooter, that's really important and key.  She does a tremendous job of finding me out there and, you know, everybody else, it just felt like kind of a regular practice, a regular game kind of scenario.   
  It was a lot of fun.  It's a great honor for the Connecticut Sun to have four out of five players.  Nykesha wasn't playing, but it was a lot of fun when we were out there.    
  Q.  Katie, you mentioned out on the floor it wasn't a matter of you guys being tired of losing, but it had to be on your minds.  You wanted to show some pride out there.   
 KATIE DOUGLAS:  Absolutely.  Like you said, everybody's been talking about it.  So we needed to give the media a new story kind of thing.   
 Obviously we knew that the West was coming in with an undefeated record in All-Star Games.  We wanted to show we could compete with them.  Maybe they were surprised with our defensive effort.  We just wanted to come out and put on a good show.  Obviously our first and foremost goal was to win, and we did that.   
  
  Q.  You go from a reserve to starter to MVP.  Pretty good time?   
 KATIE DOUGLAS:  Pretty good experience.  I don't know anything's gonna top that.   
 Like I said, it's an incredible honor to be named by the coaches, for them to recognize my talents and efforts.  I was happy to be a reserve.  Unfortunately, with injuries and things like that that happens, I was bumped to the starting lineup.  I just kind of rolled with it.  Got off to a good start.  Never did I lay in bed last night thinking this would happen.   
 I had a subpar performance yesterday at three-point on contest.  I was happy to be able to come out in my first All-Star Game and play well.   
  
  Q.  Was there a specific moment on the court with your Sun teammates when you did something instinctively?   
  KATIE DOUGLAS:  I think there was a couple different moments.  I remember when TJ and I were on the defensive end.  TJ doesn't get a lot of credit for her defensive efforts.  She's my MVP for defense.  She's our rock.  She helps us.  You know, always talking and out there, they were running pick and roll and repicking.  It was me and TJ and she's talking to me the whole time.  I just feel like it's a regular game.  It's, you know, me and TJ.  I've been playing with her for six years now.  That definitely stands out in my mind, just the way we are, the way we can communicate and cover and get back.   
  Q.  Just want to know what you thought of the couple dunks at the end of the game there, attempts.  Is that a sign of where the WNBA is headed?   
 KATIE DOUGLAS:  I think that's the sign of the future of women's basketball, where that's headed.  Just an unbelievable amount of athleticism has grown into the women's game.  Little girls are starting out earlier, getting into the weight room, doing various amount of things, there's more opportunities and stuff like that.   
 You know, it just shows how far the game has come.  I would expect to continue to see some dunks.  Maybe not, you know, so wide open.  I think, you know, some day I think the women in the future of the game will be able to do nothing similar to the men, but I think that it will be a little more natural kind of thing.   
  
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT