WNBA FINALS: MONARCHS v SUN
September 19, 2005
Katie Douglas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. What's the mindset heading into Game 4 with your backs up against the wall?
 
KATIE DOUGLAS:  The team's mindset is I think everybody's, I guess, unnaturally relaxed.  I think that we watched a couple clips this morning and we know what we can do in order to kind of close the gap.  And we're going to just concentrate on us.  Right now it's about us.  Backs against the wall, got to win and we're going home.  We would like to force a Game 5.  We just got to come out and match their intensity and maintain their runs a little bit more and make better runs ourselves. 
 
Q.  What do you guys need to do to reverse last night's scoring and come away here with a W?
 
KATIE DOUGLAS:  Well, they were up by 12, but then we cut it into two.  But I just think that to get a win here we're going to have to jump out and set the tone.  There's still a lot of pressure on Sacramento to close out the series here at home.  Because we know that they definitely don't want to go back to Connecticut and play a Game 5.  We're facing elimination, but they're facing pressure on closing out the series.  So it's tough when you're in a situation like that as well.  So hopefully we cut down on our turnovers, cut down on some of the silly mistakes that we're making and get a couple more offensive rebounds and just get some fast breaks and some easy opportunities and I think we'll be fine. 
 
Q.  I was going to ask you about the turnovers.  How much of a concern is it that you guys are committing them and they're not?
 
KATIE DOUGLAS:  It's a big concern because that's what sparks any team is creating turnovers and points.  They had 20 points off our turnovers, we had zero.  So any time you kind of get in that flow of the game, it's going to help you.  And to their credit they have been able to do that and we just have been kind of playing it safe.  So we got to get better at being a little more aggressive, creating our own turnovers and getting out in the fast break and playing and creating the tempo that we played all season long.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT