MLB WORLD SERIES: METS v YANKEES
October 24, 2000
Benny Agbayani
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 

Q.  You obviously had a lot of big hits, a lot of big thrills, obviously, against the Giants.  But getting a hit in the World Series, what does that feel like?
 
BENNY AGBAYANI: It feels very good.  It's always been my dream to be able to play in the World Series and play in the Big Leagues.  To do this is a great accomplishment for myself, especially all the things I've been through in the beginning of the year.  
 

Q.  Was there any type of aura of invincibility for Hernandez when you guys went into this game, and maybe in that sixth inning when he got out of that jam, did you shake your heads and say,  "What do we have to do to get a run off this guy?"
 
BENNY AGBAYANI: Oh, yeah.  He's a tough pitcher.  He's one guy that comes at you different angles, throws fastballs, throws you that slider.  He pitched very good tonight.  Very good.  
 

Q.  You worked a walk out from him in the sixth inning.  When you came up in the eighth inning, what did you expect from him?
 
BENNY AGBAYANI: I went back into the dugout, and Tom Robson was talking to me about getting him to throw the ball a little bit lower.  I was swinging the balls up in the zone.  So when I went up there, I went up there thinking,  "Get the ball down.  Let him throw something where I can drive it to the outfield." 
 

Q.  In terms of invincibility, was there a sense going into this game that you were facing an invincible team, with the World Series' streak they had going?  Is that sort of shattered in a way right now?
 
BENNY AGBAYANI: Well, you can't think about that.  Anything can happen in a World Series, especially with El  Duque.  I mean, that's all we heard was how he's won so many games in the post-season.  He never lost.  So there's always a first for anyone.  
 

Q.  I'm sorry if you answered this already, but even going back to last year, you had a tremendous amount of success throughout post-season.  Is there anything that gets you to lock in and focus more than usual?
 
BENNY AGBAYANI: Yeah, I don't want to go back home yet.  You know, right now, this is where you play.  You're going to pack your bags, or you're going to win it.  I don't want to pack my bags yet.  
 

Q.  You think the Yankees have a new-found respect for you and the team now that you've been able to break their long streak, and that this might be a good series?
 
BENNY AGBAYANI: I don't know, that's a question you might have to ask the Yankees.  I can't answer that for them.  Hopefully, they give us the respect that we give them.  
 

Q.  Can you talk about the game plan against Hernandez, how you guys were trying to lay off the slider, even though you weren't able to, and was, in fact, the winning hit a slider?
 
BENNY AGBAYANI: It was a fastball over the plate where I could drive  -- his pitches were just  -- we were just swinging at those pitches he was throwing us.  He was keeping us off balance tonight.  
 

Q.  I heard the  Howard Stern Show when you picked the Mets in five.  Did the guys give you any razzing about doing that?
 
BENNY AGBAYANI: No.  I didn't definitely say we were going to win in five.  I just blurted it out.  The fans let me know that I said that, so I don't care.  
 

Q.  Overall, what has your first World Series meant to you?
 
BENNY AGBAYANI: It means a lot.  I mean, it's so emotional.  It's so exciting.  Every day I come to the park, I'm ready to play.  
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT