NL DIVISION SERIES: METS v GIANTS
October 7, 2000
Benny Agbayani
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Were you thinking home run when you went up there? 
 
BENNY AGBAYANI:   No.  I wasn't.  Some of my teammates, John Franco, Turk Wendell, Al Leiter, they just said go up there and be the man.  I knew the wind was blowing out pretty hard out there, so I knew once the ball got up in the air, it had a good chance.  
 

Q.  What was your approach? 
 
BENNY AGBAYANI:   My approach was, you know, I'm going to hit the ball hard.  I had a great-at-bat last time and I didn't move the guys over so I had to redeem myself.  It's a blessing that that was the redemption right there, a home run.  
 

Q.  You've come a long way since Spring Training when you didn't even know if you were going to make the team. 
 
BENNY AGBAYANI:   Yeah, I talked it over with this reporter, and he said it was like the Survivor game.  I live on the island and I was the lone survivor, still here, and the only thing I didn't get was probably the million dollars.  It's a great feeling and it's a blessing in disguise that I'm still here.  I never look back at it, but people bring it up to me, what happened when we were in Japan.  It's just that Bobby Valentine told me, you know, things have a way of working out.  I didn't understand that.  Now I do.  
 

Q.  You've been through so much in your career, what does it mean to you to have a moment like this after seven or eight years in the Mets organization? 
 
BENNY AGBAYANI:   It's a tremendous moment.  This is better than hitting a ball in little league or high school, American League.  This is where it all counts.  This is what I do for a living.  It's just a great feeling to go out there and hit a home run in the big dance, in the playoffs.  
 

Q.  Could you talk a little about Bobby's faith in you?  All through the season, you've talked about how Bobby has believed in you. 
 
BENNY AGBAYANI:   I think he has a lot of faith in me.  He hit me anywhere in the order.  You know, it gives me a boost because I have someone there to guide me through it and give me the support.  I think all of the support has made me a better person, and I just thank him very much for having that much faith in me. 
 

Q.  How aggravated were you in the 11th inning when you failed to lay down that bunt with runners at first and second with nobody out? 
 
BENNY AGBAYANI:   It was aggravating.  He gave me the bunt the first time up and I fouled it off and he wiped it off.  I tried to bunt the second time on my own and I didn't succeed.  But, you know, you've got to redeem yourself some time, and you know, when I came up, I just told myself I was going to redeem myself right there.  
 

Q.  Earlier in the series against the Giants, you handed a boy a ball, and there was only one out, a miscue, this is going to make up for that in a big way? 
 
BENNY AGBAYANI:   I guess everybody is not going to let me down on that one.  It was a big boo-boo on myself and it cost us a big  -- it almost cost us the game, but Todd Zeile picked us up and we got that win.  I'll always remember it, and I'll always have that in the back of my head.  And I don't worry about it because the fans in left field always make sure they tell me how many outs anyway.  (Laughter.) 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT