NL DIVISION SERIES: METS v GIANTS
October 6, 2000
Benny Agbayani
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  You were part of this run last year.  With the roller coaster ride in the playoff game last night, did you get the feeling that it seems like old times? 

BENNY AGBAYANI:   Yeah, it felt like it.  You know, it felt like that one time when we played the Braves over here and we came out with that victory.  No, it was one of those games where, you know, we thought we had it, but, you know, JT hit that home run and tied it up right there.  Anything could have happened right there.  Fortunately we came out with the win. 


Q.  Because of what you guys were able to do in the playoff games that were similar to this, once they tied the game, was there a feel, because so many guys were in the dugout from last year, that hey, we can do that, we can come back and get the lead again? 

BENNY AGBAYANI:   Yeah, I think so.  Every one of those teams that never say die until the last out.  We had confidence in everybody that we were going to win this game because it was our game. 


Q.  Overlooking the excitement last night, it was the first time the Mets have won one in Pac Bell, was there any kind of feeling that this might become another Turner Field for you, Turner Field West? 

BENNY AGBAYANI:   You know what, I was thinking about that.  That's during the season, the regular season.  And when you're in the playoffs, anything can happen.  We didn't think about what happened during the season.  We just were going to go out there and play our best game out there.  You know, we just didn't give up.  That's the main part. 


Q.  Does that also relate to how well the team did at Shea this season or is there a bit of added confidence coming back to Shea for these two games?

BENNY AGBAYANI:   You know what there is.  This is our house.  They have got to come through the jungle.  And I thought their fans were, you know, pretty good, but they have not seen our fans and it's going to be rocking when they come to New York and see how the fans in New York react during the playoffs. 


Q.  How confident are you guys going into Game 3? 

BENNY AGBAYANI:   I think we're very confident, because we're playing at home.  And, you know, we're one of the teams that have the best home record, and I think, you know, we're going to do very well after that long road trip that we had. 


Q.  Is it easy to get overconfident because you guys are at home, and now thinking that, "We're at home and we should win," without focusing on the job at hand and the importance of just getting a victory here? 

BENNY AGBAYANI:   There is.  But we can't be overconfident.  We've just going to go out there and play day one and day two.  Can't worry about  -- you know, we're just going to come in here and sweep them right now.  We've just got to worry about tomorrow and tomorrow is going to be it. 


Q.  Can you talk about Timo and what he has meant to this club? 

BENNY AGBAYANI:   I can just tell you guys that he is like another Melvin Mora.  He's Mr.  October.  He's very versatile I think.  He hits left-hand pitcher, he can run, he can bunt, he plays good outfield.  He brings a real spark to our lineup.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT