THE SENIOR OPEN PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 25, 2019
Fred Funk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What was the strength of your round?
FRED FUNK: I drove the ball really good, so that's kind of what you've got to do is keep it out of those bunkers.  The couple of times I got a little astray, it cost me a couple shots here and there.  But overall, it was really good.  I hit the ball a lot better than I have been.  My back freed up.
I had to withdraw the last tournament.  I came over here thinking I may not be able to play.  I was playing Gary Player's tournament on Monday at Wentworth and I knew I didn't want to pull out of that and leave them hanging.  I came here thinking -- and I didn't barely play on Monday.  I barely played on Tuesday.  I didn't play yesterday, and then this morning I felt good.
Then it got tight as I was coming in, but it was still free enough to swing.  I was very optimistic, and I was really in a really good mood because my back felt good this morning.  So it was the first time I've been able in probably a month to kind of let it go.  It paid off.  I drove the ball really well.  Hit a lot of good irons and I hit a lot of good up-and-downs here, too, so it was good?
Q. A golf course you would have played a lot over the years, and demands accuracy.  You've been one of the greatest drivers for a couple of decades.  What does that do to your confidence, coming to a location like this?
FRED FUNK: Well, this is the first time I've played it.  So I never played this one.  I don't know how I missed this one.  Everybody said how great a driving golf course it is, and you get rewarded if you can keep it out of the mess that's out there.
So I'm surprised that I haven't been here and how good it is.  I just hope I'll be physically free to swing, and if I can do that and just have fun, hopefully the next three days.  To me, everything's a bonus right now.  I mean, the fact that I'm under par after one round is great, but every day's been totally different.  So we'll see how it goes, and I just want to enjoy the week and enjoy being over here.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT