PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2006
Fred Funk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
A lot of birdies today.
FRED FUNK:  I made six birdies.  Birdies are good.
Q.  Did you make an eagle?
FRED FUNK:  I made no eagles.  Birdies are good.  I've learned that in this game.
Q.  What worked for you today?
FRED FUNK:  I putted well.  I didn't hit the ball that great, but I had a good putting round, so that was good.
Q.  Any long ones in those birdies?
FRED FUNK:  I'm trying to remember.  I'm a senior, for Pete's sake.  15 was from the fringe about 12 feet.

16 was about four feet.

Then 1, I made about a 20 footer.

3, ten footer.     no, that was about a six footer.

5 was about a foot.

7, 25 feet.
Q.  What happened on 9?
FRED FUNK:  9, the only fairway I missed.  I drove it way left in the crap ola.  I had to chip out.  It was a good bogey, put it that way.
Q.  What club did you hit into 16 today?
FRED FUNK:  6 iron.  I snap hooked a 3 iron around the corner and it rolled and rolled.
Q.  Do you like this course?
FRED FUNK:  Yeah, it's nice.
Q.  Does it work out with you?
FRED FUNK:  Yeah, it's nice.  I love traditional old golf courses like this.  There's nothing not to like about it.  You've definitely got to stay out of the rough, especially if you just miss it.  That's where the real    or if you get way in the trees.  But if you just miss it, you're really penalized.  Everybody is talking about that, I think.
Q.  What changes do you recall from 1999?
FRED FUNK:  I don't recall.  13 and 17, I guess, back down by the water.  If I didn't know about it, I probably wouldn't even have noticed it.  I wouldn't have remembered.

It's funny, as good a golf course as it is, I didn't really remember it.  Until I saw each hole in the practice round, then I was like, oh, yeah, I remember this, I remember this.
Q.  A lot of doglegs around trees and par 3s over lakes.
FRED FUNK:  Yeah, it's a good golf course but it doesn't have where things really stand out, I don't know.
Q.  What did you hit on 17?
FRED FUNK:  I hit a 5.  I probably should have hit 6.  I hadn't had the 6 all week so I was scared to hit 6.
Q.  Where did you end up?
FRED FUNK:  15, 20 feet behind the hole.
Q.  Are you feeling good as far as the rest of the week?
FRED FUNK:  Yeah, I'm just going out there and adding it up.  I'm not in any mode of thinking what I'm trying to do or trying to do anything.  If I play well, great, and if I don't, move on.  I'd like to get myself    I feel good to get myself in position, but I don't want to put any expectations on myself.  I need a win to get on Tom's team, I think.  That's going to be a big chore.  Just a small technicality, 2nd is no good.
Q.  A lot of people talk about the length of this course.
FRED FUNK:  It doesn't play to the length    it's not playing to the length that it is.  There's a lot of doglegs, and obviously they measure the doglegs point to point.  The ball is running out a little bit.  It just doesn't play quite that long.
Q.  Does that bring more guys into the equation?
FRED FUNK:  You know, I don't know.  Hazeltine is a really long golf course and it plays really long.  Across the board, I think a golf course setup, whether it's short or long, if you look at the leaderboard, whether it's a short hitter, medium hitter, long hitter, I think it's a good setup because it's going to reward guys that are playing well.  It's not just a one dimensional golf course.  I hope at the end of this week it will prove out to be one of those.
Q.  When did you start putting better?
FRED FUNK:  I've been putting good since Milwaukee.  I've revised the claw.  I went back to it, and Sharon told me to put my hand under instead of on top, and that changes the whole elbow position and it started    I got rid of the pulls.  It's a claw but there's so many versions of the claw, who knows.  Conventional or any of the other ones    the two senior events was the first putting I've had in my life.  It's been a struggle all year, but right now it's starting to feel a lot more comfortable.
Q.  The same putter?
FRED FUNK:  Same putter.
Q.  You've certainly gotten used to playing in majors this year.
FRED FUNK:  Yeah.  They're all majors now, you know, in the Tiger era.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT