U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 5, 2006
Fred Funk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








RAND JERRIS:  It is a pleasure to welcome Fred Funk to the interview room this morning.  Fred is playing in his first 2006 U.S. Senior Open this week, and indeed this is his first appearance on the Senior Tour, Champions Tour.

Fred, maybe you could just start us off with some general comments about your impressions of the course here at Prairie Dunes.
FRED FUNK:  I played yesterday the first time and expectations were hard to exceed, but it exceeded it.  It was incredible.  It's probably the -- it's definitely my top, very short list of golf courses, and maybe my favorite golf course.

I kind of judge golf courses by if you only have one to play the rest of your life, would you be tired of playing it every single day, and I don't think you would ever get tired of playing this golf course.  And I got to put that up there with Pebble Beach and Cyprus Point and Shinnecock.  And there aren't too many other ones that are on there.

It's a fabulous golf course.  Very difficult golf course.  It's set up very tough.  The rough is even thicker than Winged Foot.  And it's -- you got to stay out of that stuff.  But as far as the golf course in general, I got to still -- and I said it yesterday, a few times, but Ben Crenshaw said it's a work of art and it really is.
RAND JERRIS:  As a veteran of many so U.S. Opens, share with us your thoughts and expectations coming here to play for your first 2006 U.S. Senior Open.
FRED FUNK:  I didn't expect the golf course to be set up quite as difficult as far as the rough.  The rough, you just can't hit out of it.  You get in it and it's -- again, it's the -- unless you get into the real, real thick, high stuff, the heather stuff, just an inch off the fairway into that primary rough, you can't move it.

So it's very difficult if you miss the fairways, and around the greens it's really, really thick too in spots.  So it's premium on keeping the ball in play, and I think the golf course is truly going to identify the guy that's playing the best golf this week.  And that's what you want.

So I like that aspect of it.  If you're playing well, you're going to get rewarded; and if you're not, the golf course, you're going to see -- especially if the wind blows -- you're going to see some really high scores.
RAND JERRIS:  Okay.  We'll take some questions, please.
Q.  Wondering about your expectations.  I think everyone else has high expectations for you.
FRED FUNK:  Yeah, I expect to play really well.  I've been hitting the ball pretty good of recent weeks.  But my short game has not been very good.  You got to have that.  I've been struggling with my putter all year.  I think I stumbled on to something as recent as last night here on the putting green, but I'll know today when I go practice.

I made a little set up change and a putter change, and hopefully it will help me.  But I've been using the claw off and on, and that's been my most consistent.  But answering your expectations thing, it's going to depend on my short game.  You're going to need it around here.  These greens are really tough to putt.

It's going to be tough for everybody, but I'm going to need to have that scoring part of my game to work.  And everybody does here.  That's the club you need the most.  You got to keep it in play with the driver and then finish it off with the putter.
Q.  Can you talk about turning 50, how that went for you and then how long you've been pointing toward this particular event in your mind.
FRED FUNK:  Boy, it sure snuck up on me quicker than I thought.  I've been playing and really focused on the Regular Tour in the last few years, and I've been making some really lovely goals of making the cup teams, and I have.

I had my best years, the last I would say four or five years on the Tour.  And it's been a great ride out here.  And I'm not really ready to give up the Regular Tour yet.

I still feel as long as I'm competitive out there I should stay.  And yet at the same time, I'm really excited about the opportunity that the Champions Tour presents itself with me or to me.  I want to play well.  So obviously because I'm so competitive and I have been playing really well in the recent past on the Regular Tour, I should do well out here.

But you still need to be -- still need to play well.  You just can't show up and expect to finish high.  You got to do all the right things.  Because a lot of great golfers are out here on the Champions Tour and they only play well when they're playing really well, as good as Loren and Jay and Brad, Brian, Dana Quigley and Craig Stadler and Tom Watson and Tom Kite.

You just go on down the list of the guys that are consistently up there, they're consistently up there when they're playing well.  You just can't show up, especially on a golf course like this.  This is a really, really good golf course.  I don't know if you guys have had a chance to get out there yet, but it's pretty special.
Q.  Specifically, what do you like about this course?
FRED FUNK:  I played it one time, obviously, yesterday, and I remember every golf hole.  And that's unique in and of itself, I think.  To go out there and every golf hole is a complete separate different type set up.  It's very memorable.  I still don't know it well enough to know -- obviously yesterday we had the wind the opposite direction, what they say is the prevailing wind.  So the sight lines off the tees are different and the clubs you're hitting into it.

The guy I was playing with said we're hitting as much as five to six clubs different on the greens based on the winds.  So hopefully it will blow -- I don't even know what direction it's blowing today.  I just got here, but hopefully I can get the normal wind pattern and figure out the golf course.

But it's just -- flying in here it looked like everything was dead flat, and then you get here and it's got -- has these big sand dunes and the roly poly greens and very extreme rough and beautiful trees and the difference of the different parts of the golf course.  You go through the trees and the dunes and then you come out into the prairie a little bit and it's just really a neat golf course.
Q.  In your history with links golf as far as playing overseas, has it been a favorite of yours?
FRED FUNK:  I don't have a good history on links at all.  But I do like Shinnecock a lot.  And I played well there.  The last time we played there I played well there.  This one reminds me of that a little bit.  It actually has more elevation change than Shinnecock has, I think.  As far as the way it place.

And the overall beauty of this golf course is just spectacular, I think.  So they did a great job.  I think it's a lesson to the modern architects to start going back to the mule-pulled plow instead of the big bulldozers and just use the land that they have.  But obviously they were blessed with a great piece of land here too.
Q.  Would you have rather played in a couple of Champions Tour events before weigheding into this one?
FRED FUNK:  No, I wouldn't.  My goal is still making the Tom Lehman's team and I have an outside chance.  The way the points are this year, they're so volatile that if I can have a couple good weeks.  J.J. Henry moved up a tremendous amount last week with a win, and just shows how much you can move up.  So I had a couple golf courses that I have a history of playing well on, although I didn't, Westchester being one of them and Booz Allen at the DC, which is my hometown.

And coming up, I'm actually skipping the British Senior to come back and play Milwaukee, because that's a good golf course for me.  So I'm going to try to maximize all my opportunities I can on the Regular Tour to make Tom's team.  And then make a decision next year on how I'm going to do things.

But right now I'm just playing three events out here this year.  And this week, next week and the one in San Antonio.  And I'll make a decision from there.
Q.  There's a fairly good group of guys right now that are playing well on the Regular Tour and they're in their late 40s and going into their 50s.  Can you put a finger on why that is and technology, prize money, maybe why it is?
FRED FUNK:  I think a little bit you got the carrot at the end of the stick here is the Champions Tour.  And they see another opportunity to be ready to play and stay competitive.  But there's no need for a guy to really drop off as long as he's healthy, based on age.

Jeff Sluman, Kenny Perry, John Cook is showing some spark here recently.  These guys have been really good players for a long time.  It was no surprise to me when Jay Haas had the great comeback everybody called it, the last few years.

But what it was was more of a motivation and more of a determination that he was going to play well.  He just worked at it.  He put the work back into it and he got the results, and Jay had always been a great player on the Tour.  And so it was no surprise to me when any of the guys that are in their later part of their years, as long as they're healthy, Scott Hoch, you would be reading about him all the time if he was healthy right now.  He's always been a great player.  And if and when he comes out here and his hand gets healthy, he's going to be a force out here for along, long time.

It wouldn't be a surprise or shouldn't be a surprise to anyone.  So I kind of see it as more of an -- age is not so much a factor as it is motivation and determination to continue to play well.  And I set some really high goals, and it just kept me motivated to work on my game.  And with the state of the game changing so much in the last few years, it has surprised me a little bit that I've had that kind of success.  But it shows that there's more to hitting the ball a long way out here on Tour thank goodness, there's other ways of scoring.

And I've always been one of the shortest hitters on the Tour and still had a lot of success.  So that's a good thing about the state of the game.  And determination, I guess.
Q.  I realize you just basically got here and you have a lot of great impressions of Prairie Dunes.  Have you had a chance to form any impressions of the community of Hutchinson and the people here who have been organizing the tournament?
FRED FUNK:  Well, not really.  Although everybody's been really nice.  We ate dinner last two nights and they have been really nice in town.  And just a warm feeling of hometown people that really enjoy putting on their show, showing off their gem of their town here and putting on a great show for really the world to see.

And see, I think it will be a great showcase and an opportunity to showcase how great Prairie Dunes is.  And even though Hutchinson is out here what seems like in the middle of nowhere, but it's still a thriving place, I think, that people love to live and are proud of their town.
Q.  I was wondering, coming out here, seeing a lot of the players that you played with over the years on the Regular Tour, if they may have had a prank for you or some interesting results?
FRED FUNK:  No, I haven't had any hazing yet.  But I had a great day yesterday walking in the locker room.  Everybody that I saw that I've known over the years and known on the range and on the putting green around the golf course, it was really fun day for me.

It was everybody seemed to be excited that I had come out and obviously there's been some media coverage about me coming, and everybody seemed to be excited about that.  And that made me feel really good.  It's great, a lot of great friends I've had out here that I've been following on the TOUR.  Not only the recent guys like Jay and Loren, but Ed Dougherty has always been a great friend of mine, and I have great respect for Don Pooley and Andy Bean and Scott Simpson.  He's always been a great friend of mine as well.

I can just go on down the list, Jim Thorpe, wonderful guy, he's just a great guy.  It was so much fun to see him yesterday.  And getting to know Dana Quigley last year at the CVS tournament Billy and Brad put on, I think we hit it off pretty well, and he's a great guy.

So a lot of great guys out here.  That I love seeing and being around.  And really look forward to spending more time with them.
Q.  I know that you've only played this course once, but would you view this golf course maybe as more of a ball-striker's golf course as opposed to putting competition?
FRED FUNK:  No question.  You have to be in total control of your golf ball out here to score well.  You got to have the knowledge of knowing the lines to hit it on so you don't run through some of the fairways or catch some of these bunkers.  But you got to stay out of the rough.  You got to definitely stay out of that high stuff.

And to have an opportunity with the irons from the fairways so you can get it to the portion of the green where you can be somewhat aggressive.  And it's a little bit like the severity of the greens at Augusta, it's very important to have control of distance control of your irons so that you can have putts at it.

Otherwise you're going to be putting over humps and bumps and down swales and be real defensive, and it's really tough to score that way.  You're obviously going to have a lot of -- in 72 holes you're going to have a lot of putts where you're going to have a roller coaster rides, but the guy that's playing his best, it's going to showcase, it's going to definitely reward the guy playing the best golf this week.

I don't think you can scramble too much and get away with it here that much.  Just because the rough around the green is really thick.  There's some great chipping areas that you can stay in and those places, those are the spots where you need to miss the greens.  But you get in the rough around the greens and the rough off the fairway, you're in serious trouble.
Q.  How about the state of the game today.  You talked about your being one of the shorter hitters but still competitive on the PGA TOUR, now it seems like every day there's a new guy that hits it 350 yards out on the PGA TOUR, where is the game headed?
FRED FUNK:  Well, I'm hoping we reach the limit.  I keep saying that every year.  And then you get our J.B. Holmes and Bubba Watsons to show up and they can fly the ball 60, 70 yards past where I can fly it.  And it is fun to watch a ball fly like that, but, man, it's changed the whole scope of the game on how they set up golf courses and how they design golf courses.  And fortunately the great golf courses like the Hilton Heads and the Westchesters and TPC even down at Sawgrass and Colonial.

And those courses have -- the scores haven't really changed that much, because they're, it's more important to be in position.  I think the biggest, the greatest thing about the game that gives the guys at our level a little bit of difficulty would be you stand on the tee and you got to think a little bit.  You got to actually say, okay, I got to shape it this way or that way or I got to hit a 3-wood or iron versus a driver.  It gives you a lot of options.

And, yeah, you can hit a driver, you can send it out there, but you better hit it in the right spot or you pay the price.  And those are the great designed golf courses.  It's hard to design that into a lot of them.  But it sure seems like they did a lot of that in the old days, in the old traditional golf courses that are still our best ones, and they stand the test of time and the test of technology.

That's the great part of the game.  And even with the distances that guys are hitting it now on TOUR haven't really come down.  I don't know what that says.  I really don't know whether that says that it's the nature of the game.  You can only make -- based on probability, that you're going to make X amount of putts in 72 holes, because it's just probability.  Who knows.  I have no idea what it is.

But scores haven't really come down that much, if at all.  So it is still a very difficult game to play, but it has changed a lot.  And with that being said, there's -- there are golf courses on the TOUR that we're playing that are just such a huge advantage for the long hitters that I just stay away from those.  Where it's just send it as far as you can, there's no decision off the tee, driver every hole, hit it 350 yards if you can, and wedge it in there and/or hit it in the rough.

Hit it as far as you can in the rough and only have a wedge, eight, 9-iron out.  Guys are so strong that they can still get to know the green a lot of the times, or around the green.  And that's the biggest change in the game is if they're sending it as far as they can and if they're in trouble, fine.

How Phil can score that well going into the 18th hole hitting only two fairways at Winged Foot.  I didn't see the round, but that's remarkable to me in that rough that they had there that he could miss that many fairways and unless he missed a lot of first cuts, or hit it in a lot of first cuts, I don't know.  But sounded like he was hitting it in trash cans and tents and all sorts of stuff, and he didn't pay the price until the decision on the last hole.

So I can't quite figure that one out except for the fact that Phil does so much preparation that I think when he goes in and sees the golf course like that, with they know they can over power a golf course that Phil would say, okay, if I do hit it over here I can chip it out to here and I can score from here.  And he knows his short game is -- he sets it up just right the right distances for him to maximize his opportunities to save par, and it's obviously worked.

He putts in a lot of time and effort to gain a lot of knowledge of the golf course.  So he could do what he did there and he just didn't, he just lost it on that last shot.  Really the last decision, not the last shot.  But anyway, that was a long-winded answer to the technology question.  Let's see, can do that one in shorthand?
RAND JERRIS:  Fred, thank you for your time this morning, and we wish you success this week.
FRED FUNK:  All right.  Thank you.  I hope to see a lot of you guys.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT