THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 25, 2006
Fred Funk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  What made it so difficult today?  Very few guys were able to kind of get it going today.
FRED FUNK:  You're on defense on the putting greens.  The greens are really, really fast, and the wind blowing, just really tough to putt.  It's hard to get a line and have the ball commit to that line and have yourself commit to that line.  It seemed like not only is it hard to get it close, but it's hard to make the putts.  For me, anyway.  I putted horrendous.
Q.  Is this the kind of a day you just try to hang in there?
FRED FUNK:  Yeah, well, obviously some early scores came in pretty good.  All the lowers scores were quite a bit earlier.  I don't know how many of the afternoon guys are really doing well.  It seemed like a lot of 3s and 4s really early and then everybody else was struggling.

Yeah, it was a round to hang in there.  I had a chance to totally lose it.  I was 3 over and I had six holes to go, and fortunately I got 1 under coming in just to kind of hang in there.  That was fortunate.

But yeah, it was a hang in day.
Q.  You had a good shot on 17 but there haven't been any birdies yet.  What was the reason that was playing so hard?
FRED FUNK:  The cup is on a slope.  It's really a hard pin.  The wind is whipping out there, and it's just super fast.

It's so easy, I actually made    even though my second putt wasn't that long, it was longer than my first putt.  I'm glad that one went in or I could still be there.
Q.  Was it any different than a usual Saturday pin?
FRED FUNK:  It's a little lower, but that whole section of the green has a pretty good slope to it.  It's sitting on the side, so it's a very difficult pin.
Q.  Did you know you were closest to the pin on 17 so far?
FRED FUNK:  I hit it really close yesterday and today and I came up with two 3s.  It doesn't feel that good to be closest.  I'm just glad it was dry.
Q.  Is this how it should be, though, in a big tournament on a Saturday?  Should the golf course play hard and really challenge you physically and mentally?
FRED FUNK:  Absolutely.  It's a tough test.  It's a golf course you know if you hit one astray that you're going to be struggling to make par, and you've got to be careful not to make the doubles and triples.  That's the one thing you've really got to be careful of because one bad shot at the wrong time    Arron Oberholser, he just made triple on 17 I saw and then he hit it in the water on 18.  That's not a good finish there.  It just so easily can happen.
Q.  We've seen so many putts just so close.  Is it a mental thing at all?
FRED FUNK:  Yeah, it was very frustrating.  I had a bunch of horseshoes today.  It was frustrating.  You'd like to see those things go in.  I really got frustrated with my putting yesterday from 17 on, and it just seemed to carry over to today unfortunately.  I putted great the first 24 holes, and then after that it's been blah.
Q.  Was the slow play a problem out there?
FRED FUNK:  No, it's really hard conditions.  There's no way you can play fast because you're really struggling to    it's hard to hit a putt and just go up there and tap it in.  It seems like all of them are running out three and four feet, and you just never seem like you can really go up there and just nonchalant one in.  You had to work really hard, and everybody was harking hard, even though we're playing in twosomes.  Even on a golf course like this you have to play a little slower.
Q.  (Inaudible).
FRED FUNK:  It did a couple times.  The ball was shaking a little bit.  It's not blowing as hard as last year, but the greens are a little faster; that's the thing.  I thought the putting green was just worn out and super fast from being worn out.  I got on No. 1 and it looked like just like the putting green, and I went, uh oh, with all the wind.  They must have double cut them, very dry, very little grass.  Tonight hopefully they'll put a little water on them but they don't need to because the course is going to be bulldozed in a couple days.  They don't have to worry about saving it.
Q.  Will you come out with a different attitude tomorrow, try to be aggressive, more defensive, or see what happens like today?
FRED FUNK:  I hope I keep playing the way I'm playing tee to green, and if I get my putter going, have a good finish.  I'm borderline out of it    well, I am out of it because there's so many guys between me and the leaders and it's so hard to shoot a super low round.  If some miracle happened and I posted a 64 or something, maybe, but when you have that many guys    I'm at 19th now.
Q.  Davis yesterday and Adam today, is there any explanation for what happened to them other than that's just golf and it's out there waiting to happen to anybody?
FRED FUNK:  What happened to Adam?
Q.  45 on the front today.
FRED FUNK:  Did he cut his hair?


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT