THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 23, 2006
Fred Funk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Did you get what you wanted out of today's round?
FRED FUNK:  Yeah, it was fine.  I struggled a little bit with ball striking.  I had some opportunities that I took advantage of, but I missed a couple and I made a couple really good saves.  If I look through my round, if I had made absolutely everything I could have shot a couple lower.  I made a couple good saves.  I hit two really good putts on 1 and 8 that I definitely thought I made that didn't go in, but other than that, I played pretty solid.
Q.  Was it the conditions that you could say to yourself there's going to be some go holes out there here today?
FRED FUNK:  There always are go holes.  There's holes you've got to hold on and be careful, obviously 17 and 18.  7 and 8 are playing really tough today.  5 is always a tough hole with any left to right wind, but this wind coming anywhere out of the north it's a tough hole to drive.  Those are the holes you've got to get by and take advantage of some of the par 5s and some of the other shorter holes.
Q.  So today's conditions didn't change that at all, the golf course played fast and firm?
FRED FUNK:  Yeah, it's playing really good right now.  I think it would take a lot more rain to get it to where it's going to soften up.  Hopefully we won't get that much.  I hope Mother Nature will cooperate because the golf course is really in the best shape it's ever been in I think.  We just don't need another debacle like last year.
Q.  So it's no surprise that Davis and Jim and other guys are at 7 under.
FRED FUNK:  No, the greens are putting perfect and there's a lot of opportunities for birdies.  I'm sure they played really well on the tough holes and took advantage of quite a few of the birdie holes that are out here.  Those are really good, solid rounds, and I'm not surprised because they're good, solid players.
Q.  Is your local knowledge somewhat nullified by the rain?
FRED FUNK:  I don't have that much knowledge.  I don't play this golf course.  I only play it this month, in March.  I played it the week of the Honda, I was out here a couple days, and I played Bay Hill last week so I wasn't here, so really one week a year other than this week I play it.  I don't come over here that much.  Living here, I've been here enough, I know where not to hit it.  But it's kind of obvious for everybody, too, where not to hit it.
Q.  Is it okay for you that the weather is going to change in terms of you saying to yourself I'm still going to have an opportunity here?
FRED FUNK:  Yeah, I've got to play my game and get it in the right position.  Looking back last year with the extreme conditions we had with the wind, it helped me in the big picture because it took the bombers    gave them a little more trouble than they were bargaining for because they couldn't keep it out of the rough.  It was hard to keep the rocket ships that they were hitting out of the wind.  When you're playing a ball that far up in the air and it's in the air that long, you don't have that much margin of error.  They were having difficulty, and it benefitted me.

I still know I can play this golf course, and 68, 69 is a really good number.  I go out and shoot a couple of those and maybe get a 65, maybe I can get in there.  We'll see what happens.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT