BELL CANADIAN OPEN
September 9, 2005
Fred Funk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Did the course play any differently today?
FRED FUNK:  Played a little longer early with the dew and stuff.  It's playing tough.  I'm just hitting the ball so poorly and really struggling with my game.  Hung in there at the end.  Made my only birdie on the last day of the hole.

If we had it in our normal rotation, it would be easily top five on the tour.  It's too bad the Canadian Golf Association doesn't want to leave it here.  This is just a great, great venue.  We don't play too many like this, and obviously you have the beautiful big trees and stuff you can work your way around the way they designed the golf course.  It's too bad the modern architects don't take a lesson from this place.
Q.  Would you please happy to come back and play here again?
FRED FUNK:  Oh, every time.  You ask a guy to a man, I would think 99.9 percent of the guys love this golf course because we don't play many like this.  It's right there in front of you.  If you play well, you can score.

It's hard to shoot really low but if you're not playing well it's going to get you and that's what you need.  It's a little tough the way they have the rough around the greens.  I don't mind so much the rough off fairway but the rough around the greens is really tough.  Just can't    just lucky if you get up and down.
Q.  Inaudible?
FRED FUNK:  No, it's just hit and a little bit of guessing.  You just don't know.  The greens are firming up and they are so small, you tend to run through them a little bit and it runs right up into the wall of grass.  Always seems to nestle down.  I haven't seen too many good lies around the greens yet.
Q.  You mentioned you're not hitting it the way you would like, do you think if you were, this is the kind of course that suits you?
FRED FUNK:  Oh, this is a great golf course for me.  Obviously you've got to hit fairways and that's the strength of my game.  I've been hurt for about eight weeks.  I've got a pulled pec muscle right here in my chest, just won't let me go after it and it hurts every time I swing.  So I'm a little    a little apprehensive to even make a golf swing.  I've been trying to play through it and keep thinking it's going to get better.  Some rounds are better than others.  Today it bothered me a lot.  I was ready to withdraw after the first hole today.  I doubled right out of the gate; I was ready to walk in.  I said, well, kind of same thing I did at the PGA, was bothering me really bad on Friday.  Once I get to 5 over or 6 over, I'm done.  And today was the same thing.  I told my caddie once I get to 6 over, I'm walking and I never quite got there.
Q.  Is that a golf related injury?
FRED FUNK:  Stretching and a little bit of working out, I had some cerebral tubing and stretching with it and pulled and approximate popped.  It's been eight weeks now, it's kind of a long time, it's like ripped cartilage, it just doesn't heal.
Q.  Is it costing you distance?
FRED FUNK:  It's costing me everything.  Yeah, it is, I just can't hit the ball that solid.  Seems like I lost a lot of speed, not that I ever had much, but I can't afford to lose what I had.  Now I'm    me at 80 percent is not very good.  100% is bad enough.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT