BUICK OPEN
July 28, 2005
Fred Funk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Set up for you pretty well?
FRED FUNK:  Well, they added 250, 300 yards and they narrowed the fairways from 35 or 37 down to 27 yards.  If you're driving it good, that's an advantage for me, but it's just going to be mega long.  Like last week, this week, the ball is just plugging in the fairway and I need something to roll a little bit.
Q.  Inaudible?
FRED FUNK:  Just treading water.  And the long hitters, the guys with a certain amount of clubhead speed have an exponential game.  They can get it at enough speed and height and spin, just all the right combination, the ball just doesn't come down; It just stays up in the air.  I can't take advantage of that.  I can't hit it hard enough or high enough.
Q.  Inaudible?
FRED FUNK:  We'll see.  I'm going back    I guess I'm getting old.
Q.  After his struggles in the majors    inaudible?
FRED FUNK:  I thought he was starting to hit the ball really well the last month or so, more like the old Tiger.  Today he only hit one really foul ball, and that was on No. 2, and that was after the photographer got him.

He struggled awfully good. He drives it a tremendous distance, longer than he ever was and he just got zero out of his round today.  That's the highest number the guy could have shot, that it was it right there.
Q.  You have to be pleased.  Talk about your round and what the difference was out there today for you?
FRED FUNK:  I just got to do what I normally do and just ground it out there and take advantage of the few opportunities I get.  I had a few more opportunities I wish I didn't miss, but overall, 68 is not bad, and the course is just playing a little long for me right now.  Normally I've played good here sometimes when it plays like this, and I've had a pretty good history here.  Usually it's running a little bit.  This week, it's not running.
Q.  The group that you're paired up with, is there a lot of challenging going on between the two of you?
FRED FUNK:  No.  I told Tiger on No. 7, before I got to 7, actually 6, because he killed a drive on 6, just save up because I'm going to bone up on the next one.  Outdrove me by about a hundred.
Q.  What's your first reaction to playing with Tiger?
FRED FUNK:  I love playing with Tiger, I really do.  I have a great time playing with Tiger.  The crowds, you expect you're going to have a lot of movement, and fortunately that doesn't bother me at all.

People are here to watch Tiger, you're watching the best that's ever played the game.  It's a thrill to be playing with the best player that's ever played the game.

He's a great guy, he's fun to play with.  He talks to you and he ribs you all day long and he's a great guy.  I would consider him a really good friend on and off the golf course.
Q.  Compared to how he's played, do you give him any words of encouragement?
FRED FUNK:  No, just    he was, obviously didn't get anything out of his round today    inaudible.   I just got to do what I do.  He outdrives me by about a hundred yards.  The one thing he did really poorly today on the par 5s, was he drove it absolutely perfect on the par 5s and with the penalty stroke, he played    that's something that happens, Tiger is going to reach every single one of them.
Q.  Where is your confidence after having such a great round?
FRED FUNK:  Well, I didn't think it was a great round.  It was a solid round.  The golf course sets up well, so I feel like, you know, hopefully play real solid, it gives you hope of getting a low one in there so you can get in contention on Sunday.  There's a long way to go.
Q.  Conditions out here today, particularly the weather, for July in Michigan, low 70s?
FRED FUNK:  It's a nice break, everybody's been playing in the heat.  The golf course is nice.  It's so wet, so we need the sun to dry it out a little bit.  I would not mind the wind blowing about 40 this afternoon and let it dry out a little more but that isn't going to happen.  With the weather forecast tomorrow, it's going to be getting better as the week goes, so it will be good for the fans.

Hopefully I can stay in there and keep playing solid golf and give myself opportunities to birdie and hopefully Tiger, you know, the guy has got everything going for him.  I don't understand why I'm rooting for him so hard, he's got everything, but you just want to see him get the most out of his round.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT