THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 26, 2005
Fred Funk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
Good to get today's round over with?
FRED FUNK:  Yeah, it really is.  From what Jon Brendle told me when we came in here, we were pretty much done.  And obviously it's beautiful now.  It was just perfect when we came back out.
Q.  Is there something that is deceptively difficult about playing today, because guys are talking about the easy scoring conditions.  It hasn't been easy for guys to go low today.
FRED FUNK:  A lot of low scores out there, I saw on the boards, a lot of 5s, 4s, 7s, and they're not done yet.  It's out there for the taking, and there's some guys that are doing it.

I disagree with you there.  From what I saw on the board there's some pretty low numbers out there.  I know those guys that are in the other wave wish they were playing in these conditions right here, not that we had it easy.  These conditions right here are as good as it gets.
Q.  Do you think there's a chance you'll challenge Greg Norman's record?
FRED FUNK:  Anybody?  What was it, 24?  Yeah, that was a remarkable score, no matter what the conditions.  That's a lot under any week, not to mention to golf course.  They've got a long way to go.  You've got to get a guy that's 12 , 13 , 14 under before Sunday, before the third round, I should say, whatever day it is, but before the third round.  Through two rounds a guy has to go pretty deep, and keep piling it on.  I would say no.  But you never know.  These guys are really good out here.
Q.  People talked about how perfect the greens were rolling.  Are they still rolling pretty true?
FRED FUNK:  Yeah, the greens are even better than the first day.  They're really, really good.  That's what is frustrating is you hit a good putt, you know you're going to make it.  You know you missed it when you look up    the first day I looked up a lot and they were going in the hole.  And today I looked up, and I knew I wasn't going to make them the minute I looked up.  I wasn't very comfortable over the ball.  It was frustrating.
Q.  You had a couple of bogeys when you started this morning, and then after the break you got yourself back to where you started.  Did you come out with a little different mindset after the rain delay?
FRED FUNK:  I was very frustrated because I really played well through 9 holes and shot 2 over.  And I just    I made one mistake on 3, really was the big mistake I made, where I hit it left in the bunker and got it up and down for bogey when I left it in the rough.  But I had a lot of shots    a few shots at birdies, quite a few, four, five, and I just didn't make any, and made a couple of those bogeys.  So I turned    I wanted to get momentum and carry on.

I felt really good about my game.  I was hitting the ball great on the range.  I didn't hit it as good as I did the first round, but good enough to shoot at least even par or a couple under on the front, and turned 2 over, that was frustrating.  It felt good to get it back on that side, even though overall    you know us golfers, we're always pissed off.
Q.  You played with Zach.  Can you talk about his game and what he's bringing to the table now?
FRED FUNK:  Zach is    he hits his driver so good.  He made an unforced error on 18.  The hole really shaped for his shot.  He hit it up the right side and hit the draw.  He started more left than he wanted and just barely caught it in the water, just missed the boards.  He hits it a long way.  He hits his irons high.  He's putting well, he's playing solid.  It's unfortunate.  I'm glad he made the up and down for the 6.  I hate to see him in with a 6, but you would hate to end with a 7.  6 is better than 7.  He was a little upset with the way he finished.  He played really solid.  He should be there when it comes to the final round, whatever day that is.
Q.  Guys have talked about being able to feed off someone else in the group that's playing well.  Do you believe in that?
FRED FUNK:  I really don't.  I think you're so focused on what you're doing, unless it gets down to a little situation on Sunday where it's a match play thing, and it's two guys, and you're kind of going at it.  Kind of like the Tiger Mickelson thing at Doral.  That was a little more where you could feed off of each other there and the whole momentum that's going on out there and the adrenalin.

But I don't think so in the first and second round so much.  You're still trying to position yourself in the tournament.  It's a long way.  You want to play well every round, but the first two rounds are position rounds, and then you've got to get moving on the weekend, too.
Q.  If you're in a pool for what time and what day this tournament ends, what would you take?
FRED FUNK:  From what I hear on the weather, I think Tuesday.  I hope not.  I hope we somehow get it done Monday.  From what I hear on the forecast, I don't know if you guys heard any different, but it's not good tomorrow.  We've got a lot of golf to go.  There's no way we're going to finish before Monday.  So we're going into Monday regardless, and hopefully we can get it done.  But Sunday and Monday don't look that great on the weather.  Tuesday looks good.
Q.  Those days free for you?
FRED FUNK:  Yeah, I'm okay.  I'm at home.  I'm all right.  I actually went home and took a nap.  I thought we were done for the day.  I was dead asleep.  My caddie told me, you'd better get out here.  I live about three miles away, the neighborhood next door, Marsh Landing.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
FRED FUNK:  I had 45 minutes.  I was in my pajamas and I had to change.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT