U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 14, 2013
Fred Funk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MODERATOR:   Folks, 2013 U.S. Senior Open runner‑up at 8 under par, Fred Funk.   
FRED FUNK:   Hey, guys and girls.   There you go.   Speak to me.  
   
 Q.   What do you think?   
FRED FUNK:   It was a great week.   I had a lot of fun.   The golf course was really good today.   The greens were twice as fast as they've been.   They got up to more what you normally see in a U.S. Open.  
Overall, I just had a great week.   It was fun to be able to play and physically be able to swing at the ball first time this year, and it was just fun to be in the hunt.   
Kenny just played phenomenal.   He did the same thing he did two weeks ago, where he just lit it up on the weekend, and I played with him the first two days at Fox Chapel, and through 30 holes, he wasn't doing anything.   All of a sudden, he just went crazy.  
He's just playing so good.   He has so much power, and he drives it incredibly straight for as far as he hits it.   And he makes, you know, even the long holes out here chip and putt.   So it's tough to beat a guy when he's on, when he's driving it that good.   You just got to putt a little bit, and it's tough to beat him.  
So I'm real happy.   It was a great week with my sponsor with Mutual of Omaha.   Relating with all those guys in the‑‑ I was going to say having relations with them in the hospitality suite that they had in the clubhouse.   Went fishing two days this week.   It was a really relaxing week.   It was great.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel a certain attachment to the fans?  
FRED FUNK:   No question.   I felt attached to Omaha long before I got here this week.   I was here six, seven weeks ago and spent four days here, got to know a lot of the guys, the maintenance staff, the pros and everybody.  
Just something, you know, I was looking forward to coming.   I really didn't have any‑‑ I thought I'd feel a little more pressure on myself because of all that.   But I didn't.   I kind of let it go.   I was so excited about being able to play good again.   So it was all good.  
   
 Q.   It's possible we might not keep the statue up here in Omaha.   
FRED FUNK:   God, I hope not.  
   
 Q.   Do you want it?   
FRED FUNK:   No, I don't want it.   Yeah, I'm going to take it in the baggage department of Delta Air Lines on the way home.   I'll put it in the seat next to me.   That thing's gotta go, I hope.   I'm just so happy it wasn't out here.   It would have been terrible.   I would have got a lot of ribbing.  
   
 Q.   You just want a bronze instead, right?   
FRED FUNK:   Yeah, exactly.   
Is that it?   All right.   Thanks, guys.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT