BUICK OPEN
July 27, 2004
Fred Funk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Fred Funk, thanks for joining us here at the rainy Buick Open.

First of all, maybe just tell everybody what you're doing today.  Obviously, not a lot of practicing or playing.
FRED FUNK:  Well, unfortunately in a rehab mode here, I (squeaked?) the cartilage in my rib cage at the ProAm in Rockford, Illinois, yesterday, had a hard time swinging the rest of the day.  Swinging half speed.

Got to my fitness guys today.  I was hoping it was a muscle, but they said it was a cartilage.  One of those things, anything with the rib cage, it's usually a pretty slow healer.  Hopefully it will be okay by Thursday.

Today I'm obviously not playing, neither is anyone else.  They think it could be better.  I might get a shot of cortisone in it to go Thursday because I really want to play.  But hopefully I'm not going to be guarding it too much.  Not what I wanted.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  You caught a nice wave of momentum last week at the US Bank Championship in Milwaukee, Top 10 finish, helped your Ryder Cup standing.
FRED FUNK:  It was a perfect setup for me last week.  A golf course I haven't played in a while because of the way it was on the schedule with the British Open.  I went there and saw the rough was extremely high.  Just thought it was perfect.  Perfect course for me.  Premium on driving accuracy.  When I'm playing well, that kind of golf course, it wasn't overly long, premium on ball control, I played really solid, ended up second.

My whole focus going in was Ryder Cup points.  Sunday I really wanted to climb up the leaderboard.  If I didn't have a chance to win, which I never really watched the leaderboard, which is rare for me not to watch a leaderboard while I'm playing, but even after I putted out on 18, I didn't know where I stood in the tournament, but I knew I was doing pretty good.

Ended up tied for second and got a lot of points, moved from ninth to eighth in The Ryder Cup.  That was huge for me.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Questions.
Q.  You would obviously like to win every week.  That's your focus every week.  But realistically, right now, how much of what you do and the decisions you make are just driven by desire to get into The Ryder Cup and get your position better there?
FRED FUNK:  Well, that's my whole focus.  I mean, if a win came out of somewhere and here, it would be just a bonus.  To me, the bonus would be the win and the real goal is The Ryder Cup.  I really want to make that.  At this stage of my career, which is pretty close to the end for the regular tour, I'm going to make the transition over to the Champions Tour in a year and a half.  I just really want to make this team.  I think it will be my last chance.  I'm pretty positive it will be my last chance to make it.

That's my whole focus, try to get points, try to get Top 10s.  Obviously, most times if you're playing good enough to get in the Top 10, you're playing pretty close to winning the golf tournament, with a couple breaks here and there.  Obviously, there's a lot more goes with winning than second place here on the tour with exemptions and going to Kapalua for the Tournament of Champions.  Obviously, the extra bonus check to get Top 30 at the end of the year.  There's a lot of other things we're striving for.  But my focus, the top of the mountain, Ryder Cup is up there.
Q.  Seems kind of obvious why people would want to play at The Ryder Cup.  Really, the amount of desire that's out there to get on that team is so huge, can you talk about why that is so important to you.
FRED FUNK:  Well, I didn't realize how big a deal it was until last year, I played The Presidents Cup for the first time.  It was such a different atmosphere, representing your country, playing in a team aspect, in what normally is a totally individual sport.

The team last year, we had so much fun.  It was a blast.  The pressure's totally different.  You know, people say it's a lot more pressure.  It's no question, a lot more pressure on you.  You just don't want to let down your teammates.  And that's more so than letting down    you know, you feel you're playing and representing your country, but you just don't want to let down your teammates.  That puts a lot more pressure on you.

In fact, I remembered that when I was coaching a golf team or even when I was on a golf team in college, guys would go in the summertime and play great individually, but as a team they didn't play that good because they had that same feeling:  they didn't want to let their coach down or they didn't want to let their fellow teammates down.  That's just that little extra.  It's a lot easier to just let yourself down a little bit or not rise up to the expectations you have in an individual tournament.

But to not play well in a team aspect is just something you don't want to bear.  Feeling that makes it sound like you don't want to go through that, but it's just such a fun atmosphere.  The camaraderie we had with the team, all the wives, Nicklaus was the coach last year, his wife, Jeff Sluman was the assistant coach, a great help to the team, a great liaison between the players and Jack.

We just had a great team.  Playing against guys that you see that are representing the world in The Presidents Cup, representing Europe in The Ryder Cup, you see them all the time, but they want to win really bad, they want to beat you.  Obviously, you don't want to get beat.

It's a pretty neat deal.
Q.  You've made no secret about your desire to make The Ryder Cup team.  Were you hurt at all by the criticism you got for skipping the British or did you think it was unfair?
FRED FUNK:  Oh, no, it wasn't unfair criticism.  I expected it.  I said this last week in an interview.  Joel was there.  I expected to get it for the one reason that just skipping the British when you're exempt for it, and double whammy when I actually played an event opposite the British, staying over in our country.  That was like a double slap.

But my whole goal was what was best for me.  I looked at my    it wasn't hard to look at my resume at the British Open, pretty poor at best.  I haven't had very much success.  I haven't had any success over there.  I really didn't enjoy it when I went over there the three out of the four times I went over.

Muirfield I liked a lot.  The other venues I didn't care that much about.  I've had great success at the BC Open.  My goal was The Ryder Cup.  The best option for me was going to the BC Open.  Had I not played well at the BC Open, which I didn't, I thought it would be best for me to be rested, go to Milwaukee, and come here.  I haven't played Milwaukee in a while, but I know it's a good golf course for me and I've had great success at this course.  I wanted to come into these three events knowing I had a good shot at getting some points.
Q.  What is it about this course, this tournament?  You do have a good record here.
FRED FUNK:  I don't know.  I don't know.  I have a real comfort level.  It's a long golf course.  I think it really favors the long hitters.  I'm obviously not a long hitter, but I played really well here in the past.  I'm just comfortable playing this golf course, for whatever reason.  I really enjoy coming here.

Obviously, if you have a comfort level and you have a visual likeness of the golf course, when you look out off the tee, second shot into the green, it looks good to you, it's usually okay to play.  Doesn't really matter the length.

It's very similar to the golf course I grew up on, so.  I grew up in Maryland.  We have pretty much the same topography here.  This doesn't have that much pitch and roll to it.  Tree line fairways, traditional style golf course.  I really like that.  That's what I like about Oakland Hills, where The Ryder Cup is, although that's a monster of a golf course.  I really like that golf course.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
FRED FUNK:  I won't have time.  Especially with my rib now.  That will be okay.
Q.  Did you play the US Open there in '96?
FRED FUNK:  I played twice there, yeah.  I love the golf course.  The first time I played there, I was still a club pro in the '80s.  I was picked to finish last because nobody knew who I was.  With the last name Funk, everybody picked me last.  The caddies had this pool.  "Yeah, we're going to pick that Funk guy last, name like that."  A couple guys that did know me said, "He's not going to finish last in the tournament."

I finished 23rd.  I missed Augusta by one shot.  I didn't even know that rule existed back then.  I think it was top 16 go.  I missed that by one shot with all the ties.  The guy told me that like two days later.  "You just missed Augusta by one shot."  Had I known I was that close, I would have missed it by 10.  I was choking my guts out as it was there.

Nice golf course.  I really like it.  I played it the next time    who won that next time, Payne?
Q.  Steve Jones.
FRED FUNK:  That's right.  Yeah, Steve, that's right.  The first one was TC Chen, the two chip.  I guess Andy won, right?
Q.  Do you think it makes a good course for a Ryder Cup?
FRED FUNK:  Oh, absolutely, yeah.  It's a great venue for The Ryder Cup, sure.
Q.  How about the mental pressure that you have from week to week as you're trying to qualify for The Ryder Cup?  Can you talk about how maybe that's a little different from just going out and trying to play and beat the rest of the field?
FRED FUNK:  Well, you're trying to do both at the same time.  You know, sometimes you handle it better some days than other days.  I was really getting pounded last week by my caddie and my wife to try to ease up a little bit, just try to go out with a little lighter attitude, have a little more faith in my abilities.
Q.  Who was worse the caddie or your wife?
FRED FUNK:  They were both on me pretty good.  It was equal.  My wife was on my caddie to make sure that he was on me, so I guess my wife was.

Sunday I was actually really relaxed.  I just went out there with an attitude that I'm going to    I'm going to try to hit the best shot I can every time, play aggressive but smart golf.  Sometimes you get caught up in a I don't want to hit a bad shot.  Instead of trying to hit a good shot, you're trying to minimize.  You're not really trying to hit a good shot.  You're just playing scared basically.

I got caught up in that a little bit on Friday.  I got really mad at myself on Friday and Saturday, where I had parts of the round where I was playing real defensive.  Sunday, I just stayed offensive all day and was real relaxed about it.  I said, "If I'm going to go down, I'm going to go down fighting.  If I make bogeys, at least I tried to make birdies instead of trying not to make bogeys."  That's what I was trying to say.  Instead of going out there trying to not make mistakes, I was trying to make birdies and take my game to a level.

I played really good on Sunday.  I birdied 16 and 18 coming in, played a real solid Front 9.  I think I was tied for low round on Sunday.  Moved up to second.  It was a really fulfilling day, short of a win.
Q.  Hard to walk this fine line thinking Ryder Cup, Ryder Cup, Ryder Cup, then remembering, "Wait a minute, just play good golf and things will work out"?
FRED FUNK:  Well, that's exactly right.  I don't want to look at The Ryder Cup    look back, and had I missed making The Ryder Cup team because I played scared, because I didn't want to lose points or I wanted to minimize my damage, make sure I get Top 10 instead of second.

I got a little bit of a cushion    a lot more cushion than I did, because I had no cushion before    but a little bit of a cushion since Sunday, but far from being a lock.  I still got to go out there and play.  The guys that are behind me have to go out and play.  They've got to allow themselves to do that.  It's hard to do sometimes.  It's definitely a mental challenge.

You can play too aggressive and play stupid.  There's a line where you can play    analyze how you're playing, pick and choose where you can be aggressive, but try to hit really good quality golf shots, set up as many birdies as you can, and hopefully you're converting them with your putter.

I don't want to look back and say I didn't give myself a good shot.  I didn't give myself the best shot I could have.
Q.  You look at how all the older golfers are doing so good on the tour right before they come to the Champions Tour.  How do you see yourself lining up for that?  You've been playing well the last couple weeks.
FRED FUNK:  You know, some of the guys that are still playing well out here on the tour are having a hard time I think committing to the transition over.  Like Jay is playing really well, but his total goal is making this last run for The Ryder Cup, which is totally understandable.

To me, I'm really looking forward to going and hopefully be one of the marquee guys, but hope to be a presence and a help to the Champions Tour as far as having that tournament grow or that tour grow.

It needs an influx of new blood.  That's what's nice.  You have new 50 year olds coming out.  Some of them have some really good rapport with the spectators.  It's a more fan friendly environment out there is what they're trying to focus on out there, to make it fun for everybody to go watch them play.  I'm looking forward to going out there.
Q.  Can you touch a little more on why you like it here so much compared to playing at Oakland Hills?  You talked about topography, growing up in Maryland.
FRED FUNK:  Again, you like coming to places where you've had success in the past because you know you can play it, if you're playing well.  This golf course is one that I've done that.  Oakland Hills, I've really loved the look of the golf course.  But I don't want to get too far ahead of me.  That's far from a lock right now.  If I do something this week, I can certainly help secure it.  I can still get passed.  It would be disappointing.

I don't anticipate being a captain's pick.  I don't think that would happen this time around.  I got picked by Nicklaus.  Not that Sutton wouldn't pick me.  I just wouldn't expect to be a pick, so I got to make it on my own.  I think everybody feels that way.  You don't want to be hoping you're getting a phone call that's a positive call.
Q.  Getting back to the rib injury, is this something that you have any indication of the severity of?  Could it affect The Ryder Cup?
FRED FUNK:  If I have to pull up this week, if it bothers me as much as it bothered me yesterday after I did it, I won't tee it up.  I won't know till    hopefully tomorrow it will be okay, or at least I can swing.  I'll know more.  I have a late tee time on Thursday, so I'm going to wait until the last possible moment before I have to pull out.
Q.  Better safe than sorry, just play next week?
FRED FUNK:  I'm not playing next week.  I'm not playing International.  I'm playing PGA, I hope.

I don't think it's that bad.  Whenever anybody has ever had a problem with a rib or pulled a rib out or the cartilage or the muscle around a rib cage, it's just a real slow healer.  It really gets me on the way down just before I get to the ball.  I guess you're firing that muscle where it attaches on the lat there.  It just gets me, gives you a little jolt.
Q.  As you said, you're not a lock for The Ryder Cup yet.  As you go through this process of trying to get in, do you already start to feel that camaraderie on guys who are locks or guys already in?
FRED FUNK:  Not really.  The only guy that's really vocally every day wishing me on is Kenny Perry.  He and I are really good friends.  I'm friends with everybody out here.  But he seems to be really genuinely pulling for me to get on the team.

It feels good.  Kenny's a great guy.  He's a lock for the team.  It was a lot of fun for him out there.  He's just such    I call him a stallion.  He's such a good player and a good guy.  He's great in that team aspect.  He was part of the reason it was so much fun at The Presidents Cup.
Q.  If you're not a hundred percent, are you going to play through some pain to try to get those Ryder Cup points?
FRED FUNK:  If I can hit shots, yeah.  Yesterday I lost    if I was an eight cylinder starting, I was a four cylinder when I quit.  I couldn't put any momentum on the golf swing.  It's a hard enough game for me when I'm playing healthy and I'm hitting the ball okay.  It's still a tough enough game for me.  It's hard to play hurt.  I'll play with pain.  If I'm playing where I got to change my golf swing to play, then I won't play.
Q.  Are you getting anxious to have the process get over with just so you can kind of have it finalized one way or the other?
FRED FUNK:  You know, it's kind of fun.
Q.  Is it stressful that way or no?
FRED FUNK:  Last year it came down to the PGA.  I knew I needed to play well at the PGA.  I bypassed    Bob Estes and I flip flopped.  He went from 11 to 12, I went 12 to 11.  I thought you never know what the captain is going to do, but last year it seemed like Nicklaus was going to pick 11, and his second pick was going to be a wildcard.  Jay Haas was the wildcard at 16.

I don't know whether that's going to happen.  I don't know whether 11 will be a lock or not.  But the pressure was on all the way till the end.

This year I'm looking at it, yeah, it's definitely in the forefront of my mind, but it's kind of fun now because it's keeping me real focused, especially after I played well last week.  It really helped that I actually had a good week.  I went an eight week stretch in a row, two weeks prior to the British Open was my break, and I was just worn out.  I was trying so hard through there.  My only good tournament was the US Open.  I picked a good week to have the good week.

That was a real frustrating eight weeks that I had in a row.  I just wore myself out.  I took the two weeks off, didn't do anything golf wise when I was home.  I came out real rusty at the BC Open.  But it started to come together last week.

That kind of validates my decision on not going to the British to me by the way it all worked out so far anyway.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT