PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2003
Fred Funk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








FRED FUNK:   It was really, good to finish with par.  I didn't want to finish bogey, bogey.  It was a little disappointing at 15 where I hit my shot on the par  3 and really almost  -- I had a birdie putt on 16 and 17 I made bogey.  I could have made a great par save there but then 18, it did make me feel a lot better, yeah.


Q.  You seem to feel comfortable out here, is it the course?

FRED FUNK:  It's just a major and I'm just comfortable  -- usually I'm comfortable at the U.S. Open and PGA type setups, where it is more of a premium on getting the ball in the fairway.  Assuming I'm playing my game and I'm hitting the ball solid; if I'm not hitting the ball solid, then I'm really in trouble. 


Q.  Why do you think you are such a favorite with the gallery?

FRED FUNK:   I think this is a little bit of carry-over from last year.  The fans all week in the practice rounds remember last year, and they remembered last year and they were reminding me of last year. 

I've really struggled last four weeks since royal St.  George with my ball-striking.  I went and I had a good session with my teacher in Austin and that really, cleared my mind and I hit the ball exceptionally well on the front nine today.  The back nine, I hit a few goofy shots.  Overall, it was really good.  So, I was pleased.  The fans really kept me going.  I really did have that in my mind to give them something to cheer about like I did before.  I'm not trying to be a clown out there or anything, but I am trying to enjoy myself. 


Q.  The fact that you scored well this afternoon, with the course conditions maybe softer in the morning, is that an advantage? 

FRED FUNK:   Well, I think the greens, they are still a little soft, but they are firming up compared to what they have been.  I think by Sunday in the afternoon times, they will be a little firmer conditions green-wise.  The fairways are still soft, they are not releasing very far.  I would say it was tougher in the afternoon just because the greens are releasing a little bit.  Hopefully that will help me tomorrow when I'm out there with the softer conditions in the morning, I hope. 


Q.  When did you see your teacher?

FRED FUNK:   Saturday and Sunday.  I went from Denver to Austin to see him and spent a lot of time. 


Q.  What is the key to playing this golf course?

FRED FUNK:   You have to keep it in the fairway.  That's No. 1.  And I'm very comfortable with the golf course.  I just like the golf course.  I went around it the first day on Monday, I just thought, "Man, I really like this."  I played it in '89, but I didn't remember that much about it.  The tees are so much further back.  I remember 9 not being near the length that it is and 17 and 18 and numerous holes, I don't remember what I hit in back then. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT