THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 23, 2001
Fred Funk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Thoughts on your round.  You got it up to 5 and then it fell back.

FRED FUNK:  I got it to 6.  I birdied 2, which was my 11th hole, and got it to 6.  I was playing really solid.  The one big boo-boo made was I 3-putted 16 for par.  And right there, I hit such a bad first and second putt that I lost my confidence a little bit.  I really didn't putt good the rest of the round from there.  I got a little disappointed in the way I finished.  Bogeying three of the last seven.  But it was playing really hard.  And you know, as you can tell with the scores, it's playing tough.  I'm still in it, but I'm disappointed in the big picture, because I really had it going.  I was playing solid and I kind of let it go on the greens.

Q.  A lot of the local guys  -- not a lot, but a few who have already missed the cut.  You guys play out here, but it's such a different course you're seeing right now.

FRED FUNK:  Yeah, home field advantage is overestimated because this golf course does play totally different when we're here for the tournament.  Greens are never this fast or this firm.  And the rough's not this deep when we play.  We know where not to hit it and where to hit it, but you still have to execute the shots.  It's a tough golf course.  If you're not playing well, it doesn't matter how much you know.  You got to go out there and execute the shots.  Of course, knowledge doesn't mean anything with the execution.  You know where you don't want to hit it.  And everybody knows basically where not to hit it.  You've just got to go out here and execute.  

Q.  What mentality do you take over the weekend knowing if it's windy the scores can go back down?

FRED FUNK:  Yeah, except for those guys, the top three or four that are already in and done.  But yeah, the cuts going, I think, going to move up.  Yeah, the guys in the afternoon are going to have a tougher time.  No question, the wind's higher, and the greens are getting firmer.  The one good thing today is there was less mud on the ball.  I only had one mud shot today.  And yesterday I had about four or five.  That's a big difference.  You have more control of your golf ball when you don't have the mud on it. 

Q.  You take a conservative approach or try to get a couple back right away?

FRED FUNK:  I don't go out there  -- this golf course can jump up and get you in a heartbeat.  If you have an opportunity to get a birdie, you take it.  But the minute you, I think  -- if I can reach a par 5, that's my aggressive play.  I go for par 5s when I can reach them.  I was able to reach three of them today.  At least I could get there.  Doesn't mean I did get there.  Actually, I got there on 11 and 16, and I was pin -- green-high on 2.  So the wind in that direction, it helps me to get to the greens.  But that's my aggressive play.  Very seldom will I go for the  -- or yeah, very seldom will I go for the pin when it's really tucked in a corner or something like that. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT