THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY SOUTHERN COMPANY
October 28, 1999
Fred Funk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








FRED FUNK: Well, it was definitely an emotional morning with the service. It was a
beautiful service we had for Payne. It was a very emotional time, and it gave a strange
start to the tournament with emotions flying so high, or really, so low. Dealing with this
thing, definitely hard thing to get through. But once the golf started, you know, you went
out there; you concentrated on what you had to do. It is funny, I concentrate -- I would
think everybody out there would probably say the same thing, but I could never get Payne
out of my mind when I was playing. It was -- I would hit a shot, concentrate over my shot,
but just seemed different knowing what happened. I know that he would have wanted us to
play. There is no question. It was the best thing. I think as a group, we needed to play
and go through this together. That is the biggest thing. It would have been a lot harder
to deal with this, this situation, the tragedy we had losing Payne if we were all either
-- if they cancelled the tournament and we all had to go home in our separate ways and
have to deal with it that way. It is a lot easier as a family that we have out here to
deal with it. That was the theme of Tom's talk last night at the informal dinner we had,
and this morning, dealing with this as a family. And we are a big family. Once we got
through that, getting out on the golf course was good. But at the same time, I could not
forget that Payne wasn't there. 

Q. Your first competitive round on this course in an area where you have played well --
was it possible to get back a feel of past experience or--?

FRED FUNK: No, it is totally different, but the golf course, I played it Tuesday for
the first time in the Pro-Am, and love the golf course. I heard so much about it. Actually
came out here in 1997, I was in town during THE TOUR Championship. I walked around, but
that was outside the ropes. I really didn't get much of a feel for what the course was
like. I didn't even walk the front 9; I walked the back 9. Playing the golf course it is
just right there in front of you. It is in fantastic condition. It's got to be one of the
Top 5 golf courses I have played, and condition-wise, you can't beat the condition of the
golf course.

Q. What has been your practice mentally in the past when you face a course that is
overall very long and then has some very long par 4s and you know that you are going to
have to hit a lot of long irons, hitting greens. How do you get yourself ready?

FRED FUNK: I am usually a good long-iron player; so I don't mind that. It doesn't
really bother me. Usually keeps the scores up a little higher, anyway. And I usually like
golf courses that play a little more difficult as far as the overall score.

Q. I know you guys, sometimes when you are playing and you are in the thick of things,
emotions build up and different things like this. Did you have to not only keep your
emotions in track, but maybe to make sure when you were with the club that you didn't
just, you know, just rip it?

FRED FUNK: I wish I had that in my swing. (Laughs). I don't have that right now.
Especially right now, I am really struggling with my setup right now, and I am not able to
really -- you know, I want to go after it, but I just can't. I am not hitting the ball --
I don't seem to be in position where I can be real aggressive. I was just trying to make
sure I didn't make too many mistakes today, and I actually got -- other than a short putt
I missed on my 9th hole this morning on 18, I got just about everything out of my first
round of golf. And then I had some birdie putts beginning of that last nine holes, but
didn't make those, but I finished with a birdie. So I feel pretty good about -- overall, I
am very pleased because I am not playing -- I am really not playing that well, but I mean,
I managed to try not to make mistakes and play within myself right now.

FRED FUNK: I birdied 11 and 12. That seems like forever ago now. I don't even know what
I hit in. I think I hit a 4-iron in on-- I didn't hit that good a drive on 11. I hit a
4-iron about 20 feet; I made that -- no, I remember that now. I hit 6-iron over the bunker
and it almost went in but it went by about probably ten feet behind the hole because it
released with the greens. I made it coming back. Then I hit 5-iron on 12 about 15 feet and
where else did I birdie? 

FRED FUNK: I hit wedge, hit a good drive downwind; hit a wedge about six feet and then
17, the pin was-- I had a putt there, I was about-- hit a 4-iron in; should have hit a 5,
but I hit a 4 and went by about 15 feet behind the hole and I had about an eight-foot
break to it and made it. It was an amazing putt. That was one of the best putts I have
ever hit. Then I had 5-iron into 18 and I missed it to the right, hit a good chip about
four feet by and missed it coming back. I had some birdie putts early in the round but on
7 I hit a little 7-iron about 20 feet, 25 feet probably, made that. Then 9 hit it just
short of the green; chipped up about three feet past the hole made that. 

Q. 16 and 18 coming back around?

FRED FUNK: Then I hit a terrible 5-iron on 16 about 100 feet from the hole at least,
3-putted. I hit 3-iron about three feet and made that one.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT