BOB HOPE CHRYSLER CLASSIC
January 23, 1999
Fred Funk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
FRED FUNK:  No, 69. 
 
FRED FUNK:  Actually three birdies on the front.  I birdied No. 1 which was -- 
 
FRED FUNK:  Birdied No. 12, hit 8-iron in there about five feet.  Next hole, the par 5, I wedged in there about five feet.  Birdied, 9-iron in about a foot. 
 
FRED FUNK:  Yes.  15, yeah. 
 
FRED FUNK:  A foot.  Then I birdied No. 1, my 10th hole, 2-putted, birdie, hit 3-wood in.  Then I birdied the long par 3 which is -- 
 
FRED FUNK:  Hit 4-wood, made about -- 
 
FRED FUNK:  About a 20-footer. 
 
FRED FUNK:  Then I bogeyed the next hole and bogeyed the par 3. 
 
FRED FUNK:  Just hit a bad chip, put it up on the front edge of the green and left it about ten feet short and missed it.  3-putted from the fringe on the par 3, 7.  Then 8, I had it on the front fringe in two and made par. 
 

Q.  How do you think you played overall, and how do you feel going into tomorrow after a slow finish?
 
FRED FUNK:  Well, I am playing really good.  I made a lot of mistakes this week.  To be leading is a little amazing to me. I made a lot of birdies, and I have done a lot of good things.  I have had three or four little easy chips, got it up-and-down.  It is just a shootout tomorrow.  I can still win the tournament which is the good news. 
 

Q.  You have played here nine times before, according to the book, but you haven't had a lot of success on courses that might figure to play to your strength.  Any reason for that?
 
FRED FUNK:  I don't know why you think it plays to my strength.  Why do you say that? 
 

Q.  Well, you are not very long.
 
FRED FUNK:  I don't know.  I think I played good here or decent one time.  I usually get a little uptight usually when the  weather is really good you have got to shoot 5-, 6-, 7-under everyday just to maintain it.  I get a little impatient and all of a sudden I am going the wrong way.  This year I have been here playing really good and was just letting it happen.  I have a new focus this year.  I am determined to play good early in the season and so far I have.  The other difference I haven't really played good early in the season.  I usually wait until May or June.  I have a chance to make a run for the Ryder Cup.  I have a legitimate shot at it. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT