U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 13, 2013
Fred Funk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   That was a nice finish. 
FRED FUNK:   Thank you.   A little more than 30 feet, probably.

Q.   You made some hay on the back nine, so that's good. 
FRED FUNK:   Yeah, after doubling 10, yeah, with an 8 iron in my hand.   Perfect drive, had an 8 iron, make double.   That hole's eating my lunch.

Q.   What's that say about you after what happened at 10?
FRED FUNK: I just made a vow to myself to just let everything like water on a duck's back and just let it slide off and keep tagging along and see what happens.   If I end up coming back, great.   If I don't, doing the best I could.   I wasn't trying to make 6.
It's frustrating when you do that, but it feels good when you come back like that.   I'm just trying to keep it all in perspective and just keep hitting one shot in front of me and giving myself opportunities. 
I'm playing really good.   Today I hit the ball the best I've hit it and found something on the range.   I just narrowed my stance a little bit in my setup, and all of a sudden, I was hitting my driver better and my 3 wood better. 
Still struggling with those wedges.   I can't get those wedges close.   I don't know if it's these fairways or me or what.   I hit them pretty good on the range, and I get out here on the tighter lies, and I'm laying sod over it.   So it's a little frustrating. 

Q.   Did you have a number in mind today to try to close the gap to Michael? 
FRED FUNK:   No, but when I got out to a good start‑‑ I was 3 under after 7, and I was feeling okay.   I had an easy up and down on 8 and made bogey, but 2 under on the front and I could have been a lot better.   I was just thinking, I'm ready to go.   And then I hit a really good drive on 10 that was down the right side, which I really didn't want it down the right, but I had an 8 iron in my hand, thinking I'd get out of here with a par and off we go.   I did just the opposite.
I actually made a good par save on 11, my second putt.   I left it probably seven feet short going up the hill, and I made that.   And that kind of let me relax a little bit because I didn't want to go double bogey, bogey.   I was feeling the heat on the par putt.   Then I hit a really good putt. 
And then a really nice par save on 15 when I took the wedge back off the green, laid down in the fairway.   Made a great putt there.   And then birdied 17 and 18.
18, on that back tee, I wasn't sure I could make the fairway.   I hit a good drive, and I thought it was going to keep rolling back.   There was actually a little plateau there.   To make birdie on that hole is just bonus.

Q.   What did you have left on that second shot?   What club did you hit? 
FRED FUNK:   I hit a 3 iron hybrid.   I had 208 front or 203 front up the hill into that wind, adjusted 203.   So it was a long way, and I hit it really good, and I was just happy it was on the green where it was.   Could have easily gone anywhere up there for that matter.   But if it was really long, it would have been a really tough putt coming back down with that side hill.
As it was, I thought I had a pretty tough putt.   I was just happy to two‑putt.   But when it went in, that was a big bonus.   Anything else?   You good?

Q.   Late yesterday, when you heard that Michael Allen shot a 63, what were you thinking? 
FRED FUNK:   That was a helluva round.   I was talking about separation.   He certainly separated.   There was some serious separation when he did that. 
So, you know, the fact that he came back a little bit or didn't keep going‑‑ I don't know what he is right now, 9 or 10‑‑ but, you know, he could have just put one more really good round today, and he's outta here.   See ya. 
But he's catchable now.   So we'll see.

Q.   How does this prepare you for the British Open? 
FRED FUNK:   British Senior?   I'm not in the British.   Tom Lehman is and Watson and those guys, but not me.

Q.   He might just be 8 under here.   Whether you're two or three back tomorrow‑‑
FRED FUNK:   It doesn't matter, two or three.   It's just the fact that he didn't go that way, you know.   He didn't get to 11, 12, 13.

Q.   Tomorrow on this course and the heat, what is the winner going to have to do tomorrow? 
FRED FUNK:   He's going to have to not do what he did today, and we got to keep doing what we're doing, shooting low rounds.   Kenny shot a low one.   I had a good finish.   I just got to avoid the big one.
Yesterday, I talked about you can't make doubles and triples.   You can't make up for those on this course or anywhere else for that matter.   I made a double, and I really was trying to do everything to not make doubles.   I was already accepting bogey in my mind, just make bogey and get out of here, and I still made double.   That was a little frustrating.

Q.   What will decide the Championship tomorrow, in your mind?   Will it be on the greens or keeping it in the fairway? 
FRED FUNK:   You got to keep it in play, and you've just got to give yourself opportunities.   Low scores are out there.   You're seeing them.   You're seeing Corey had a heck of a round today and Kenny.   So you can see somebody from six, seven back come back and do it.
But it will be probably a little tougher tomorrow.   The greens are a little faster today, I thought.   I thought they had a little more run‑out to them, so they were a lot better.   I thought that was good.   So tomorrow they'll probably be that way with tougher pins. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT