BOB HOPE CHRYSLER CLASSIC
January 20, 1999
Fred Funk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
FRED FUNK:  It was just a real solid round.  The course and weather are just perfect.  Just a matter of trying to make converting the birdies.  Made 8 birdies and one bogey and really only left probably two shots out on the golf course.  Other than that, I am real pleased with it.  Playing real -- 
 
FRED FUNK:  Yeah, birdied 4 from about three feet, par 5.  Then got to --  Then 8, I hit it about three feet.  9 I made a 15-footer. 
 
FRED FUNK:  8-iron on 8.  Second shot 8-iron.  12, chipped up about five feet front edge.  13, made it from the fringe about 25 feet.  Hit 5-iron in.  14, hit 3-iron about 20 feet.  15 bogey, hit a 9-iron over the green and didn't get up-and-down. 
 
FRED FUNK:  I hit it about six feet with a wedge and then 18 hit it about six feet again with 60-degree wedge. 
 

Q.  Playing Tamarisk, really difficult to get ready to go back there and play even though the other ones you only play one round every year?
 
FRED FUNK:  Not really.  I remember playing here in the past.  When we have it here, it is always in such great shape. All of them are always in great shape.  I just remember this being a really good golf course.  I didn't play practice rounds.  I was just going on memory.  Just lays out really good.  You could see where you need to hit it and only thing had a little more difficult pins today than they normally do from what I remember. Again the conditions were so good that if you remember hitting it good, you are going to score well. 
 

Q.  When you play in this tournament, obviously you are looking at 30-under, maybe even more, just to win the thing.  Do you feel like you have got to go out and shoot, you know, 65 or do you just kind of let the birdies come to you because you know they are going to come?
 
FRED FUNK:  You got to kind of do both.  Kind of got to let it happen, but you also know you need to make a lot of birdies  because you have got to seem to stay at 6-, 7-under pace by the time you get to Sunday.  Yeah, you need to keep going and basically don't try to force it, but it is hard not to force it. Got off to a par 5, let that one go (inaudible) very conscious of just not letting it get it me and just relax and play.  That is what I did; ended up making a lot of birdies here.  One mistake coming in with the birdie; played really good other than.  That you do have to concentrate on not trying to force things because you know you have got to shoot a million under here.  Unless the weather gets really bad, that usually doesn't happen either. 
 
FRED FUNK:  Okay, great. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT