U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 15, 2012
Fred Funk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Ladies and gentlemen, Fred Funk has joined us in the Media Center.   Fred is the 2009 Senior Open Champion.   He's the 2008 runner‑up.   Posted final round 3 under today, 8 for the championship.   
Fred, another top ten finish.   What a great round today.   Great charge.   
FRED FUNK:   It was fun to get in the mix.   I didn't really expect Bernhard to come backwards.   I saw he was 2 over pretty early, I think after his first four.   Well, now we got a game on.   
So I was playing pretty solid, gave myself some chances.   I made some great saves there in the middle of the round.   
Then 8 I left one dead short from where I needed to have it.   15 was a big one, where I had an easy putt straight up the hill, and I pulled it.   
Overall, it was great.   Roger played awesome.   He's a great guy, great golf swing.   It was just fun to get in it.   
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Fred?  
   
 Q.   Fred, I believe it was the first nine, I guess it was, on the second round.   How much is that haunting you as far as what you did in that round?   
FRED FUNK:   That was huge.   That was my back nine, and I was 4 under for the day through 11, which was the second hole, and then I played the next seven 5 over and just played horrendous.   
It was more my driver.   I just started‑‑ I was fighting the driver going left.   That night I was staying over at Oakhurst, and I went out that night, and I've been carrying about four or five different shafts, and I found a shaft‑‑ I don't even know where it came from.   I know I used it before, but I don't know what the header was in.   It was a little shorter and quite a bit stiffer.   I put it in, and it tended to go left.   I put the same head on that shaft and just drove the ball great the last two days.   Actually hit it further because it rolls a lot longer.   
I got rid of that left shot.   That shot killed me.   I hit it in the hay three times in a row with that and then hit it out of bounds with a 3 iron on 9, just trying to lay up out there.   
I've hit four balls in my life on Tour like that, and that was my fourth.   I just couldn't believe it.   That was just icing on the cake, more like shit on the cake.   It was a shit cake, and then I had shit icing.   Can you print that?  
   
 Q.   Fred, you know I'm going to print that.   
FRED FUNK:   I know you will.  
   
 Q.   Talk about the putt at 18, what you saw, and what you hit in there too.   
FRED FUNK:   I hit a 7 iron in.   All day the greens have been releasing a lot, and that one had a really soft ball mark.   If it rolled just another three feet, it was going to roll down right to the hole, but it didn't.   
For some reason, that green was a lot softer than the other ones.   But I hit a really good shot.   The putt just broke a ton.   We played a big break, and it broke even more.   
It wasn't even close really.   I mean, I knew it was low.   Got about halfway there, and I looked up.   When I looked up, it was halfway there.   It was already even with the hole, and I knew it was slow.   
That's a diabolical green.   It's more like four greens in one.   It's pretty tough.   
I knew I needed that putt.   I didn't realize Roger‑‑ I knew he bogeyed 16 to go back to 9 because everybody reacted, and I looked up at the board.   He must have made a great birdie on 17.   That's a nice little cushion he had there.   
THE MODERATOR:   Great charge today, Fred.   Thanks very much.   
FRED FUNK:   Thanks, guys.   By the way, it's a great golf course.   I thought it was a great championship and a really great golf course.   It was just fun to play.   It was a great week.   So thanks.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT