U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 12, 2012
Fred Funk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MODERATOR:   Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Fred Funk.   He shot a 67 and was 3 under par for the Championship.   
FRED FUNK:   Okay.   [Singing] Play that funky music white boy.   Play that funky music right.  
   
 Q.   Is that your song?   
FRED FUNK:   That's it.   [Singing] Lay down and boogie.   
Okay.   I'm sorry.  
   
 Q.   Talk about your round today and how the course played.   
FRED FUNK:   It played great.   I played really solid.   The front nine, the first five holes, I birdied two of the first five, and I just burned the edges on the other three and had really hit just perfect putts and really got off to a solid start.   It could have been a ridiculously good start.   
I turned 2 under, and then I birdied 10 and 11 so I'm off and running.   Then it's obviously the part of the golf course you kind of got to hold on.   And I played pretty good.   I made a really good up and down on 12 after hitting a bad chip, which is obviously a really hard hole.   
And then 14, 15, the par 5, I just messed up that hole entirely.   Hit a bad drive, bad second shot, bad third shot, bad chip, and a bad putt.   Made bogey.   It was my only bogey all day.   16, I made a really good par save.   
And then 18, I hit a really bad drive in the straw way, way left and two‑putted from short of the green, which was really good.   So other than messing up 15, I really saved a lot of shots with 12, 16 and 18.   I made some good pars.   
So had opportunities early.   I had opportunities to make bogeys late and saved them other than on 15.  
   
 Q.   With two guys shooting 5 under today, there are definitely birdies out there on the golf course tomorrow?  
FRED FUNK:   Absolutely.   The golf course‑‑ I only got to play nine holes each day, Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday.   I wasn't hitting the ball very good.   My back's still bothering me for the first time in a long time, and I've kind of been working more in rehab than I have on my game.   
I was real pleased with the way‑‑ I was really pleased with the way I was stroking the ball early because I was hitting my lines and hitting my speed.   I just kept ‑‑ they did everything but go in those first five holes.   I played pretty solid overall.   I made some good saves  
You can't be too pissed with a 67, that's for sure.   Is that it?   Uh‑huh?  
   
 Q.   I liked your music, man.   
FRED FUNK:   I did too.  
   
 Q.   Sing it for us?   
FRED FUNK:   No, I don't have a good voice, obviously.   See y'all.   Thanks.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT