MISSISSIPPI GULF RESORT CLASSIC
May 1, 2010
Fred Funk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Fred, 6 birdies and a good round on a typically difficult, windy day, yet didn't gain much ground. But 6 birdies. 
 FRED FUNK: Yeah, I'm starting to a little better. I'm still throwing shots away. The three bogeys I made were just kind of tossed away. I'm still doing that, and it's really frustrating.
 But my game is starting to go come back, so I'm excited about that. But I'm still frustrated with the way I can't finish it off. Yesterday was a round kind of the same way. Whatever. We all do the same thing. But I kind of turned a 67 or 6 into a 71 yesterday. 
 Today could have been a lot better, but it felt good. This time I made my birdie on 18. Yesterday I had three feet for birdie and I missed it, so it feels a little better finishing that way.

 Q. Last time we talked after you had your knew replacement, you were coming back out here and getting your strength back. But the last nine, the last six, the last couple rounds, you're getting your strength back and you're feeling more comfortable?
 FRED FUNK: Well, I'm starting to hit more quality shots. I'm playing golf -- actually the game looks like I'm playing golf a little bit now. Still got a ways to go, but my goal was to try to be ready by May and I'm getting pretty close. 
 Now we're getting to the meat of the season for me. I'll get the PLAYERS and the U.S. Open and then our majors on the Champions Tour. I just want to be competitive again. I haven't been competitive for a while, since the end of the last year when my knee just petered out. Trying to get back this year.

 Q. I was wondering if peeking at the scoreboard if you are surprised that it's getting up to 9?
 FRED FUNK: Oh, no, nothing surprise me. There's a lot birdie holes out there. You just got to get by a couple of those tough ones. Obviously 17 and 18 are really tough. And coming right out of chute, No. 1, 2, and 3 are really tough holes.
 If I get by those, you can take advantage of some of the other holes. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT