SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 14, 2016
Fred Funk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Didn't want to have to make a 7-footer for par on 18, but well played out there today.  Obviously this is a course you play well.  
FRED FUNK: Well, it's a good course for me if I can keep it in front of me, and that's kind of what I did today.  It's just a matter of getting it in position.  It's not so much as length on this golf course.  It's old school.  So I'm an old guy.  Old school I like, so it's worked out really well.   
I really do love coming here.  I feel really lucky that I'm here.  Sony gave me a sponsor this year, and I really feel like this will be the last time I even would ask for one.  I don't want to take one from the young guys.  But it's always a great spot for me to come.  I've been here since '89, and I don't think I've missed but maybe one or two, and it's just a great way to start the year.   
 Q.  Speaking of young guys, you've got your son Taylor on the bag, who's at the University of Texas.  Nice to have a family affair this week?  
FRED FUNK: Yeah, it is.  I was hoping he was going to qualify.  He tried to four-spot last year and this year.  He got through the prequalifier, but he didn't make the four-spot.  You know how hard that is.  That's pretty difficult.  But he's over here.   
His consolation prize is caddying for me, which I don't know whether he really likes it or not, but he did a great job today.  He was really focused today and helped me with the numbers and stuff.   
 Q.  Obviously you're going over to Hualalai for the Mitsubishi Electric Championship.  You, Vijay, Davis all played well today.  Are you guys trying to show these young guys a little something?  
FRED FUNK: Yeah.  We are.  Jerry Kelly, too.   
 Q.  He's not 50 yet.  
FRED FUNK: Not quite.  Almost.  But I saw him when I teed off on 1, and he says, hey, for the old guys, play good.  I go, what did you shoot?  He said, 5.  I said, that's great.  He said, I got beat.  By who -- and he goes, Vijay.  And I go, hmm.  That was a good round.  But yeah, the old guys are showing they can do it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT