THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
July 25, 2009
Fred Funk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Fred, two fantastic rounds to open up at Sunningdale, and then today you're not very happy with the way you played. 
 FRED FUNK: Well, I didn't. I was playing okay on the front nine, but then I felt really good after a great save on 9 for par, got in trouble off the tee. And birdied 11 and everything was fine, and then I just hit a bad tee shot on 12 and followed it up with a big mistake on the third shot. Ended up making double. 
 Then just struggled. It was unfortunate. I've been playing great and scoring great the first two rounds, but the good news is that I'm still there. I can still win it. 
 The bad news is I put everybody else in the whole tournament about right back in it. I felt like I had a chance to do some separation today and I just didn't do it. I just didn't play well enough. 

 Q. Surely you know that there is a low score out there because you shot 64; so will you get out there and grind a bit tomorrow?
 FRED FUNK: Yeah, the score is definitely out there. A lot of guys were shooting that number today. Norman shot it, Langer shot a good one, a lot of guys shot some really low number, Bruce Vaughan; and Larry Mize 29 on the back, that's a great round. It's definitely out there. You just have to get the ball in position and take advantage when you do.
 I still love Sunningdale. I love the fans and the whole atmosphere is fantastic. I just wish I played better. 

 Q. 12th hole, just tell me what you did there. 
 FRED FUNK: I hit a bad drive and I chipped out to play it safe and then I just had a full pitching wedge into the back pin, and I don't know what happened. It just came up 30 yards short and spun down the front and I made double. 
 Then I hit a bad drive on 14 and got out of position there where it's a gimmie hole when you get it in the fairway, just a par 4. 
 And then I missed a little one, my first 3-putt on 15. And then I would have felt a lot better if I made that putt on last hole, but I hit a good putt and it didn't go in. 

 Q. Any thoughts about tomorrow? Even with all this, you're only one back. 
 FRED FUNK: Yeah, I can still win it. That would be very satisfying if I do. But I've got to go out and play and everybody is going to be shooting it up, and it's not my tournament to lose anymore. That's why they make us play four rounds. There's some nerves out there. 
 The irony of the whole thing is that I was feeling really relaxed after I made the birdie on 11 and just everything went south after that, once I got relaxed. So it was weird. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT