SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 22, 2009
Fred Funk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q. Good round this afternoon. How are you feeling?  
 FRED FUNK: Actually pretty good. Yeah, it felt good the last two days. It was pretty bad on the practice rounds, on Tuesday and Wednesday, but it's, it feels pretty good.   
  
  Q. Are there any flat spots on the course?  
 FRED FUNK: I'm finding all the non-downhill walks. I can go uphill, but downhill is killing me.  
  
  Q. Tell us a little bit about your round today?  
 FRED FUNK: Well, I struggled the first nine, I played the back nine first and kind of struggled around and was having trouble off the tee and then I found it and I got real comfortable with every part of my game and putting and hitting the ball, I was feeling great.   
 And then I finished bad. I birdied a couple holes, I could have birdied every hole the first five on the front, which was my back, and then I made a bad bogey on 6 and then I had two birdie chances on 7 and 8 and then bogeyed 9. And it was disappointing.   
 6, I just had a super easy chip and it came out hot and I hit it by and I made bogey.   
 Then 9, I hit it past the pin and left my first putt short and hit a good second putt. It horseshoed around and I just didn't finish it off.   
 So it was really two days in a row I didn't really finish it off. Yesterday I got it back to even par for the tournament and bogeyed the last hole and then today I was playing good enough, my goal when I turned was to get back to even par for the tournament and then I got to even quick and so I thought, all right, now I'm good enough playing good enough to get in the red and then I went back to 2-over. So I'm real disappointed kind of with my finishes both days. But I'm playing good again, I'm sorry excited about that.   
  
  Q. Do you think it's just getting used to playing again or not?  
 FRED FUNK: I hit a bunch of squirrely shots on my first nine today. Where yesterday I drove it great. I hit it great off the tee. And then today I was all over the place. I was hitting it left a lot. And then I figured that out and, yeah I was hitting it great.   
 And I feel extremely good over my putter right now. And I'm real happy about that. So I'm looking forward to playing on the weekend. And unfortunately I put myself back a little bit, but the way this golf course is, if you can throw a 65 or 66 or 67 at it, you're going to move way up. So maybe I can do two of those in a row.  
  
  Q. What are you going to do tonight?  
 FRED FUNK: I'm going to the basketball game. Taking my son to the basketball game.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT