THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 8, 2009
Fred Funk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Can we get a few comments about your round today? Obviously three birdies in the last four holes, got to be a good feeling to finish, and it looks like you're making the cut. 
 FRED FUNK: I hope so, making the cut. That would be great. I struggled all day, and my short game was phenomenal other than I missed a gimme on 4. And then I made my other bogey on 5, where I actually could have made a nice putt there. 
 But then I just scrambled all day long, kept myself in there, and then all of a sudden I make a birdie from the fringe on 15 and then 16 I got there and made a good up-and-down from left of the green, and 18 I hit as good a drive as I can hit down there, and I'm right in the middle of a divot, a filled-in divot, and it's sitting down and it's down like a little cup, and I'm like, come on, I don't have a break here. 
 I saw Trevor use that whole right bank, and it rolled down there pretty close, and I tried to do the same thing and ended up making a birdie. So it feels real good. 
 I've been struggling obviously with my knee and stuff, so it feels good to go out there and play. This is home, and I like -- I've got a little pride running here.

 Q. Do you feel any extra pressure?
 FRED FUNK: Yeah, I've got a lot of pride, and I just want to play well. I love this golf course, and the golf course is by far the best shape it's ever been in, and the way they've got it set up is the best setup I've ever seen with the lighter rough. Maybe they're going to learn something because last week -- Wachovia and New Orleans and here were all light rough, and it's still penalizing but it gives you a chance to advance it. There are some high spots out there, but it's really nice the way it's playing.

 Q. You've played here many times, but is that finish, the last three holes, four holes, is that --
 FRED FUNK: Five holes. Best I've done? 

 Q. Yeah, this round. 
 FRED FUNK: Yeah, you mean in general? 

 Q. Well, today, the three birdies in the last four holes. 
 FRED FUNK: Yeah, I was down the road, and I was just trying to give myself a chance. I told Mark, I was in the rough on 15, my caddie, I'm telling him, I said, well, let's just figure out how to make a par here and maybe we can go some variation of 3-under the last three holes, and then I made that putt off the fringe, and it gave me a little more opportunity. 
 Then when I birdied 16, the heat was really on. Now I knew I had to make one more birdie.

 Q. How is the knee? 
 FRED FUNK: It's improving. The biggest thing is I've just gotten in so many bad habits from my knee that I've got to figure out what I'm doing. Physically it's a little more of a challenge, and I've just got to figure out what to do. It has gotten better over the last like two weeks, three weeks. It's starting to feel -- I'm having a lot more good days than bad days. Tuesday and Wednesday was awful, yesterday it felt pretty good, today it felt pretty good, and hopefully over the weekend, now I've got a weekend. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT