U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 3, 2008
Fred Funk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







FULLAUDIOINTERVIEW

  
RAND JERRIS: We are now joined by Fred Funk, Fred at 2-under par  
for the Championship. 
  
Fred, you were going along fairly steady through the front nine, and  
pick up at 13.
 FRED FUNK: 13, thanks. Well, they had the tees up so I decided to hit a 3-wood, and I just pulled it more than I hooked it and just got over in that high grass and thought I could try to get it -- thought I could get it up somewhere in front of the green, but that pin was so tough, I thought I would maybe have a better shot at maybe getting up-and-down and getting, at worst, a five out of it.
 I  
thought wrong. And I tried to hit a 7-iron, just get it running,  
and I had to go real upright with my swing, which is not normally what  
I do, and also had to hold the club about six inches above the ball  
and well behind it and was so close to cold-topping it -- whiffing it;  
I did cold-top it, barely caught it and rolled into a horrendous  
lie. And from there was a debacle the rest of the way, and ended  
up getting a seven and ending the tournament. 
  
No, it was real disappointing there. I thought maybe, maybe  
after that, if I could get some birdies coming in, and then I drove it  
just -- I thought I hit a perfect drive on the next hole, and it goes  
in the rough again, and I thought if I could make that par putt, then  
maybe I could get some pressure back on and I missed that, as well. 
  
Looks like the party's over, so just try to hang in there and do the  
best I can coming in. 
  
Last hole I tried to take it left side of the green and kind of hold  
an 8-iron and fade it into there and try to hole it, is what I was  
thinking, and then I end up hitting it left and now I've got to  
scramble to just make sure I've got second place. So I told my  
caddie, I said, "I never do anything easy." Should  
have made second place pretty easy, after I birdied 17, but still had  
a little nervous two-footer. 
  
But very disappointing. I don't know how much I can say after  
the way I played that back nine two days in a row, 5-over and 3- 
over. 8-over on the back in the last two days is not going to  
win you a championship, that's for sure. 
  
RAND JERRIS: Talk a little about the challenge of the golf  
course, how it played over the four days and how it played today. 
 FRED FUNK: The golf course was great. The second day was a tough day with the pins a little tougher. Today we had some really tough pins, as well, and the course was firming up, and it made it a little more difficult to hold the fairways. But very good, it's just the way it should have played. It was a great golf course.
 I  
thought the best player playing would win, was the best one, and  
that's what I said earlier in the week, and Eduardo did that. He  
just drove the ball really well when he had to, and just had to do  
what he had to do, because after I did what I did, he didn't have to  
do much coming in. 
  
So that's the disappointing thing is that it was kind of an  
anticlimactic finish, because John Cook had a tough day, and Tom Kite  
had a tough day, and I had a tough back nine. So it was just  
kind of a walk in the park for Eduardo after the second half of the  
back nine. 
 
  
Q. When Eduardo started having those bogeys down the back nine,  
did you feel like you had an opportunity there? 
 FRED FUNK: Well, I thought maybe; I had to make some birdies. I had to make that putt for par on 14, after 13, just to get back to three and maybe get him thinking about it a little bit. 

  
But 4-up with four to go, no, I drove it perfect on 15, and he made a  
great 2-putt, a great first putt to tap-in. I should have been  
able to get my wedge a little closer, and I didn't make that  
putt. I hit a really good shot, I thought, on 16 right at it,  
but it just didn't carry as far as I thought, so I had to make that  
one, and didn't. And he made another great 2-putt from way left  
of the green. He kept hitting shots on the wrong side of the  
hole. 
  
No, he did a good job of making those couple of pars there when he had  
to, and I just couldn't put the heat on him. I gave him the lead  
and I really didn't give him anything to really have to think about,  
so it was an easy walk for him. 
 
  
Q. On 13, it looked like you were agonizing a little bit on what  
to do in that long stuff. Was your ball in a position where you  
could get a little contact on it there?
 FRED FUNK: Yeah, I actually did. In hindsight, I wish I didn't do what I did obviously. And I'm not even sure, I might have been able to whiff it again with a sand wedge. I had my 54- degree out, and I should have just chipped it out and get it past the bunkers and wedge it on the green and take my five and take my medicine and go.
 I  
thought at the time, it was almost between me and Eduardo. I  
needed to force the issue a little bit, and I just made a  
mistake. I know better than that. In hindsight, if I make  
my five there and he made his five, I'm still only 2-down, and on we  
go. But it didn't happen that way. 
 
  
Q. What can you say about the crowds this week? Are they  
pretty big for you guys? 
 FRED FUNK: No, they were great. They felt like comparable to a regular U.S. Open I thought. The city that we're in, I'm not sure how big the population is here, but it's not like we're in New York or anything, and I think it's a tribute to Colorado Springs and the Champions Tour and the Senior U.S. Open and the venue we played, everything was great. Everybody wanted to come out and see some great golf, and I think they did overall. They saw some of us struggle pretty good, too, and I think they enjoy that, too.
  
So it was a great week for the support we got from everybody, and the  
staff that did it, everybody just did a great job, including you  
guys. The media did a great job, as well. 
 
  
Q. Where do you go from here? 
 FRED FUNK: I've actually got a fund-raiser Tuesday in Aspen for the Wounded Warriors, Funk Challenge Aspen. Doing that Tuesday. I'm actually playing a Pro-Am with one individual guy tomorrow to raise; he's paying -- I don't know what he's paying, but he's paying quite a bit of money to play with me tomorrow in Aspen, and that goes all to Challenge Aspen.
  
And then guy to Vail for a couple of days and Denver. I've never  
played Cherry Hills, and I'm going to try to play Cherry Hills on  
Sunday before we head to JELD-WEN in Oregon. 
 A  
week off, vacation, a little bit of fund-raising and a good  
time. So just try to get the major in two weeks. Try to  
win that one. 
  
RAND JERRIS: Thank you, Fred. 
 End of FastScripts 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT