U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 1, 2008
Fred Funk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







FULLAUDIOINTERVIEW

  
FRED FUNK: I like being here. 
 
  
Q. There were three guys under par this morning, and you're one  
of them. You're the best one. 
  
FRED FUNK: Wasn't the lowest one. Ian shot 68, but I was  
the best guy, yeah. 
 
  
Q. Over two?
 FRED FUNK: (Laughs). No. I don't know. You want me to just go through it?
  
Obviously it was a tough start. I was 3-over through the first  
eight holes, and really wasn't playing that bad. It's just the  
golf course on that back nine is really tough. 
  
And I knew I was still playing pretty good, even though I had a little  
issues with my neck. I felt like I was playing pretty well and  
thought I could get it -- my goal was to try to get it back to even,  
and I thought I could on that front nine. 
 I  
made a nice shot on 18, and then 1, I had an easy birdie putt and then  
I missed it and then I had one I shouldn't have made on two, and  
pretty easy eagle putt, as easy as it could get on 3 and I missed it.  

  
But I was still okay, just kind of relaxing and settling into my round  
on that and birdied the next hole versus bogey. 
 
  
Q. You said on the range you felt good. 
 FRED FUNK: The range I felt the best I have in a year and a half, two years. Nothing was hurting, and I was like, what's wrong with me? And then walking on the second shot on the tenth hole, my next hole all of a sudden my neck started locking up on this left side and just kept grabbing and grabbing and really couldn't hit through the ball. I kept missing the shots to the right with the driver. And it got a little better once I got some treatment on it. Got some Aleve in me.
 
  
Q. Did it go away or just get a little looser?
 FRED FUNK: It got looser on the front nine and actually that was pretty good. When the PT came out, he worked on me. And then up on 2, we had a long wait and I hit a driver, 6-iron on three and Roger Maltbie comes out and says, "Whatever is wrong with your neck, I want to have it." But it was pretty good after that. You know, I just can't turn. Typical thing. Just getting old.
 
  
Q. Has that happened previously at any time in your career?
  
FRED FUNK: I've always had issues. Something always  
hurts. (Laughs)
 
  
Q. Have you ever had that specifically?
  
FRED FUNK: Oh, yeah. I've had that before. 
 
  
Q. When was the last time do you think?
  
FRED FUNK: Oh, I don't know. I don't remember. 
 
  
Q. When you finished like you did after the way you started, is  
it more satisfying?
 FRED FUNK: Yeah, it is and the golf course is I believe going to play a lot harder stroke average today than yesterday mainly due to the greens are a little toasty and the pins are a little less accessible. It's hard to get on the proper side of the hole. You're always on defense.
  
So it's tough, and they got a couple pins out there that are  
borderline not quite fair. No. 4 is going to be tough, and No. 8  
is really tough. So it will be interesting to see what they do  
on those holes.
 
  
Q. What did you think on 8 after Woosnam goes off the green and  
then Jacobsen goes right up there and taps it in and he's like two  
feet from you?
 FRED FUNK: I asked my caddy just before Peter putted, and I saw Woosie's putt, and I said, "Do you think this is fast? " And he looked at me like I was the dumbest guy on the planet, and for asking I guess I was. It was just a putt you literally just get started and let it roll, and then you're at the mercy of the greens. So a 2-putt there is good.
  
Jay Haas made it in two. Looked like he hit it two or three feet  
behind the hole which is tough. 
 
  
Q. Did you even feel the ball come off the club because when you  
hit it looked like you barely hit it?
  
FRED FUNK: Yeah. Just barely touch it. Trying to get  
one revolution of the ball and then let it go from there. 
 
  
Q. Talked about No. 3, you mentioned it was one of the  
opportunities you had on this golf course and you had an  
opportunity. You still have to be happy with birdie?
 FRED FUNK: On 3? Yeah, I birdied. The only downside to that is I couldn't have left it in a better spot. I had pretty much a straight uphill putt. All I do was start it on- line, and I was going to make it. I started out a little right and it actually went right and missed it. I didn't quite read it right. But it was as easy as it gets. There was no putts or gimmies out there.
 
  
Q. Did you feel like that was one of the real great  
opportunities you had on this course?
 FRED FUNK: You have to hit the fairway and that's key on all the holes out here. On that hole you got a good shot an eagle. So it was playing a little shorter and then you stand on 17, it's kind of the opposite. You have to had the fairway there or you're really in trouble, and I didn't. And it's a tough one to hit; they played it all the way back with the back pin, and yesterday they played it to the front. I don't know what the USGA is thinking. 

 
  
Q. Did you hear about the bear sighting?
  
FRED FUNK: Yeah. I heard they might have tranquilized it.  


 End of FastScripts 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT