U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 1, 2008
Fred Funk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 FULLAUDIOINTERVIEW

  
RAND JERRIS: It's a pleasure to welcome Fred Funk to the  
interview room again this afternoon. Fred, with a 1-under par  
round of 69, 6-under par for the championship. 
  
The course looked like it was playing maybe several shots harder today  
than yesterday. 
 FRED FUNK: Yeah, I think it is. I think the pin placements are a lot more difficult. The greens are getting a little more speed to them. And it's just hard to hit on the proper side of the hole; you're on defense. Very tricky, very demanding, especially starting on 10, I knew it would be a tough start, because I think that's the meat of the golf course is 10 through 15, and obviously 17 is not very easy. I don't think 18 is very easy.
  
But you know, I got 3-over after eight holes, and really wasn't that  
frustrated because I felt like I was still playing pretty good and  
thought I could make some birdies; and I was hoping to get back to  
even par for the day, and I ended up getting to 1-under for the  
day. And so I was really pleased overall. 
  
RAND JERRIS: Could I get you to walk through your birdies and  
bogeys on the card? 
 FRED FUNK: Yeah, on 11, I drove it in the rough on the right and had to lay-up. I actually made a great 2-putt from 60 feet for bogey.
  
12, the par 3, I hit a 4-iron, hit a pretty good shot and it just  
releases all the way to the back and I was just off the fringe in the  
first cut of rough. Thought I hit a pretty good chip, but it  
came up short and hit a good putt but missed it. 
  
So I made bogey and I'm 2-over right out of the gate. I hit a  
couple good shots, and then I bogeyed 17 because I drove it in the  
rough. So 3-over pretty quick. 
  
Then 18, I hit a 3-wood and a 9-iron to about four feet left of the  
hole, five feet, and made a nice little putt there. 
  
Then I birdied 2. Really a nice putt there. I wasn't  
expecting to make birdie there from where I left myself. I had a  
20-footer, and a 5-wood and a sand wedge up there. 
  
3, I hit a driver 6-iron into the green and had it right below the  
hole on the front edge of the green and straight-in putt and missed it  
for eagle, but tapped in for birdie. So that got me back to  
even.
 I  
2-putted 9 and hit a 3-iron into the green and 2-putted for my last  
birdie. It was a pretty good finish. 
  
RAND JERRIS: What was your distance with the 3-iron on 9? 
 FRED FUNK: It was like 220 to the front yardage-wise, and 230- something to the hole. I just hit a 3-iron, making sure I got up the on the green and long, just don't be short. I kind of miss- hit the 3-iron just enough to be perfect.
 
  
Q. Given the afternoon conditions, the way they are, and some of  
the pin placements, do you see a 67 out there possibly? 
 FRED FUNK: Well, a guy's got to play really good, and I think that you have to get off to a really good start on the front nine, and that's where you can get a little momentum going early. If a guy does tee off on the back nine and does somehow manage to get 1- or 2- under at the turn, I think he can get it low.
  
But it's tough. It's getting tougher out there. It's  
getting a little more toasty. And mainly the pin positions, I  
thought they were very fair yesterday, and today I think they are  
fair, other than about two or three of them. But they are a  
little dicey. You get on the wrong side of the hole, it's almost  
impossible to get a 2-putt.
 
  
Q. Pin placement at No. 8? 
 FRED FUNK: Yeah, 8 I think is a very tough pin. That green is super-fast coming down. Anything right of the hole or behind the hole, you get on the wrong tier there -- Ian Woosnam was straight behind the hole, but he had no shot. You're on the green and you have no chance of getting near the hole.
  
And No. 4 is going to be tough. The pin itself is actually on a  
little bit of a ridge, or a little bit of a slope on a ridge, and  
Peter, like Jac hit it four feet behind the hole and just tapped it  
and it went by four or five feet. Again, you just can't make  
your mistake long on some of these pins. 
 
  
Q. When is the last time you played a course that had a bear  
walk across a couple fairways, and do you see that as an omen for the  
golfers at all? 
 FRED FUNK: Nicklaus isn't here, so I guess that's a substitute. 

  
No, I never heard of such a thing. I heard the officials  
actually saying that the bear was up in the tree, but if the bear got  
back down, that they were going to tranquilize it and halt play, even  
to the point of halting play, because it would be pretty scary if it  
got a little panicky and some spectator or some of the golfers was too  
close. That wouldn't have been an issue if a caddie had got too  
close. (Laughter).
 
  
Q. Did you see it at all?
  
FRED FUNK: No, I never saw it. 
 
  
Q. You talked yesterday about how difficult it was to get loose;  
was that not an issue today? 
 FRED FUNK: Yeah, that was strange, I loosened up really good this morning. I felt good when I woke up, and felt great on the range. I was ready to go after about ten balls, and then I was just hitting balls and having fun up there on the range and swinging as hard as I could and just having a ball with it. I hit my first tee shot on 10 and walking off the tee, my neck locked up, or my shoulder blades, whatever you want to call that back there.
  
I've had that spot happen to me before. Fortunately I could turn  
my neck to the left; I couldn't turn it to the right. I've had  
it where you can't swing or you can't go to the left, but I could look  
up. I got through it. It was fine. It got better as  
the day went on. I got treated on 1, 2 and 3. My wife got  
the PT out and she kind of saved me, running to the PT. So that  
was really good, because he helped me a lot. It got a little bit  
looser. 
  
Hopefully I can get this thing to let go overnight so I won't have it  
tomorrow. Irony of it is that I felt so good on the range, and  
then I felt like crap on the whole back nine. 
 
  
Q. Did you think that may have affected you, or you're not  
blaming that? 
 FRED FUNK: Well, I was hitting the ball kind of to the right, a little weak, right out of the gate with the driver. And then it wasn't too bad. Actually, 17 had hurt me. I tried to get it -- that's when it was the tightest I think. I tried to make a good swing on it, and I got to the top of the swing and it's like my body stopped and it lifted and I just batted the driver off the tee to the right into the rough, and you're dead on that hole unless you get up-and-down. I was in trouble after that shot.
 
  
Q. The tee shot on the ninth hole, your last hole, what happened  
there? 
 FRED FUNK: I just whiffed it. I was trying to really get one -- I just got a theory on that hole, because I don't think -- how do I explain this?
  
I've changed my whole idea, my caddie and I discussed it on all of  
these practice rounds on how to play it. Initially I thought if  
you miss it, miss it in the left rough, and my caddie says, you've got  
to be crazy. If you want to miss it, miss it in the right rough  
and then you can lay up and then you can see your lay-up or you have a  
lot better angle.
  
After two days in a row missing it in the practice rounds in the left  
rough and not being able to hit the lay-up area, I said, you're  
absolutely right. So now I just kind of aim at the middle and  
swing as hard as I can and if it goes it in the right rough, fine, but  
just don't be in that left rough. I swung hard and hit it on the  
bottom of my club and hit it on a good line and rolled out really  
good. It was a really good miss. I just came out of it a  
little too quick. 
  
Why, how did you know that? See me let go of the club or was it  
on TV? 
 
  
Q. Saw you let go of the club. 
  
FRED FUNK: I didn't know whether you were out there or  
not. Anything else? We're good. Hope to see you  
guys, a lot more. (Laughter).
 End of FastScripts 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT