AT&T NATIONAL
July 6, 2008
Fred Funk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Overall experience this year?
 FRED FUNK: It's great. It's always good to come home and I said earlier in the week how D.C. supports their golf around here and they definitely do. We always need to have a tournament here in D.C. and I'm hoping they stay here the two years we are not playing Congressional, and then Congressional can vote us in for five more after that. And we have a great venue here and I saw the redo at Avenal and that looked really good. 
 So I think it will be a win/win if we just keep staying here I hope. 

 Q. Obviously not the day that you would have liked, going down 18 --
 FRED FUNK: Yeah, it's nice. Very disappointing day, but it's always nice to come down 18 and get the support that have and that's a little great amphitheater they have over there, and that's fun. 

 Q. Yesterday I asked you about the young guys, Anthony Kim playing really well today, and can you talk about him and what kind of game he has?
 FRED FUNK: Well, he's fearless and he's got tremendous length for a little guy, and he's just got that arrogance, cocky attitude that you need to have when he's in the position that he's in, and he's got the game to back it up. So that's all that really needs to be said.

 Q. What about him as a Ryder Cupper? 
 FRED FUNK: Oh, yeah, he'll be great, absolutely. I met him when he was 15, and he was hitting about 320 then. He weighed about 210 or 220 pounds then, too. He's completely a different guy now, weighs about 155 or 160 I guess. 
 He walked up to me when he first came on the TOUR and he said, "Hey, remember me, Anthony Kim."
"Hey, what happened to the rest of you." 
 I didn't recognize him at first but a tremendous junior player and he made a great impression right out of the gate when he turned pro. He's going to be a force to be reckoned with. He's got the entire game. He's got the power and apparently a really good short game which I saw when he was 15, and he's got the perfect attitude. He doesn't back down to anybody. 

 Q. Obviously there was some of the big names here, can you compare this year's tournament to last year's? 
 FRED FUNK: I think all of the tournaments are. The media makes a bigger deal than they should about our marquee guys. The tournaments are great with or without them. Obviously you want Tiger. He's the marquee of the marquee. 
 But you want to see the students and the stars and that happens across the board on all the sports but in this particular sport, there's so much talent all the way through the top to bottom that the experience of watching the golf is tremendous. So they get out here and really get to know the young guys and get to know their games a little bit and you realize that these guys are really something else. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT