SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 11, 2008
Fred Funk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Talk about your round today. 
 FRED FUNK:  I was struggling with my putter early.  I knocked it close on 10 and 12 and basically had birdie putt on every hole on that side, and I didn't make one until 18. 
 And played real good around here.  I finished with an eagle on 9, which was great.  I just played super-solid.  I only missed one green, and that was on the fringe on the 1st hole, which was my tenth hole.  I'm playing great. 

 Q.  You'd better be careful or you're going to find yourself at Kapalua again next year. 
 FRED FUNK:  That's what I want to do. 

 Q.  You know that you're going to play all four weekends now in Hawai'i, which was I guess one of your goals coming over here? 
 FRED FUNK:  Yeah, it was a big goal.  Last year it was my goal and I didn't make it because I didn't win on the regular TOUR.  But then when I won last year at Cancún and I already had Turtle Bay, I knew I was going to Kapalua and I was going to play what I call the Hawaiian Slam.  So I thought it was pretty cool.  It's still a goal of mine.  I'd like to start the year off like that all the time. 

 Q.  With a win last year, in contention this week, to what do you attribute your good play as you reach your senior career? 
 FRED FUNK:  A lot of hard work.  Last year was a really frustrating year because my back went out, and I never fought my back before or a physical problem like that.  I worked extremely hard since September in the gym doing stuff for my back, and right now it feels great and I'm starting to play good again. 
 Last year I played really good when my back felt good, and I just knew when it was feeling good I could play well, but when it wasn't I played horrible.  I just don't want to go through that again, so I want to maximize my opportunity.  I'm working really hard to do the stuff that is allowing me to get my back a little healthier, and right now it's just a lot of dedication, a lot of motivation.  It's more motivation, I think, than dedication, to just try to get healthy again so I can swing a golf club. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT