VERIZON HERITAGE
April 13, 2007
Fred Funk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Where is that fountain of youth? 
 FRED FUNK:  I don't know.  It's just south in St. Augustine, I think.  That's why I moved close. 

 Q.  You found Ponce de Leon's map?  Great playing.  What is it about this golf course that brings out the good stuff in Fred Funk? 
 FRED FUNK:  This is the kind of golf course that if anyone is playing well, it rewards you; and if you're not, it's going to get you.  It's a position golf course, and those are the kind of golf courses I need to thrive on, and when I'm playing well that's usually what I do. 

 Q.  But it doesn't seem like your game is confined to just those types of golf courses; obviously you should play well here because you are just a straight driver of the golf ball, but you played well in New Orleans last year on a golf course that's pretty wide open. 
 FRED FUNK:  Yeah, but -- you've got me stuttering.  I think if I'm playing well, it doesn't really matter, and anyone out here, when your short game is good and when you're making putts timely, when you need to, whether they're for pars or even birdies and bogeys, you've just got to have a good, solid scoring week.  So not every golf course fits my game, but when I'm playing well I can score on any golf course. 

 Q.  How do you reassess your goal?  You've won on the Champions Tour, you've won on the PGA TOUR.  It's only April.  Where do you want to be a year from now? 
 FRED FUNK:  Well, right now I'm still very committed to the regular Tour.  I really do enjoy it out on the Champions Tour.  It's a lot more fun than I even thought it would be.  The guys are great. 
 But my heart is still to compete out here and see how long I can last out here and to beat these young guys.  I think I validated that a little bit when I won at Mayakoba.  I'd like to win -- obviously an event like this would be fantastic, or any event on Tour is a great win.  As long as I feel competitive and feel like I can still score well, then I'm going to stay out here. 

 Q.  Are you going to push hard, play a full schedule out here and try and make The Presidents Cup team? 
 FRED FUNK:  Well, that is a big goal this year.  I'm glad you mentioned that because that is my number one goal this year is to make Nicklaus' team again.  Those were the highlights of my career, the Ryder Cup and the two Presidents Cup.  They were even better than THE PLAYERS because you're representing your country, and you're part of a team.  It is so much fun to be a part of a team. 

 Q.  There is no question you'd be a fabulous asset to it.  I want to take you back I guess 20 years.  A lot of people don't realize that you were a coach in the ACC, a coach at Maryland, and recently Rod Myers, the long-time duke coach, passed away.  I just wanted to know if you had any thoughts on that? 
 FRED FUNK:  Yeah, that was really sad.  I heard he was really sick, and then I saw that he passed away last week.  He was a really good friend of mine, and what a great man.  He was just pure class.  Life is not fair.  It was his last year of coaching and he was ready to retire and just really enjoy it.  Not that he didn't enjoy it.  He really enjoyed every part of his life.  He loved working with the kids.  He was a great coach, and I think every player that played for Rod just can say how special a man Rod Myers was. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT