SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE FOOTBALL CHAMPIONSHIP GAME: FLORIDA VS ALABAMA
November 28, 2016
Quincy Wilson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We have Quincy Wilson.  Before we take questions, can you give us an opening statement on your team as you prepare for Saturday's game.
QUINCY WILSON: We're just excited to be back in Atlanta for the second year in a row and to take on the best.
Q. Quincy, what about Alabama's offense has you most concerned or are you most -- feel most challenged about?  What part of their offense?
QUINCY WILSON: As everyone knows, they have a good run game, and both the quarterback and the running back -- last year they didn't have as much of a mobile quarterback, but this year they do.  Also, we're very aware of their receivers and their ability to make a big play down the field.
Q. And then, of course, this is a rematch of last year's game.  This is the ninth time Alabama and Florida have played in the SEC title game.  Why do you think these two programs have played in this game so many more times than the other teams in the SEC?
QUINCY WILSON: Just being that these are the two biggest teams, I feel, in the country really.  Alabama has always been the top dog, and Florida has always been right there to compete with them.  That's just how it is for the past two years.
Q. Quincy, you played in the game last year.  Is it intimidating at all to go out there and know that they've got more fans?  Does it feel at all like a road game to you?
QUINCY WILSON: No, not at all.  That's not something I'm worried about when I go out there, the fans or whatever.  I'm just worried about who's on that field.
Q. Quincy, how do Ardarius Stewart and Calvin Ridley compare to some of the other receiving duos that you guys have faced this year?  And how do you and Teez plan on slowing them down?
QUINCY WILSON: They definitely rank up there with the top guys.  I've seen some good guys this season.  This past week, we faced some good receivers also, and we went against LSU's receivers.  But if we just go out there and do what we do, it won't be a problem at all.
Q. You touched on it before, but what were the biggest differences between Alabama's offense this year and the one you faced a year ago?
QUINCY WILSON: Like I said, the offense -- the quarterback, he's a mobile guy now.  He can make plays on his feet as well as throwing the ball.  The running back isn't as good as last year, but he's still going to be a challenge for us.  And besides that, what we seen last year.
Q. As far as Hurts throwing the ball down the field, how has that progressed throughout the year from the film you've seen?
QUINCY WILSON: Every team throws the ball down the field.  We've just got to go out there and do what we do and defend those throws.
Q. What's the biggest challenge mentally going into a game like this when you're such a heavy underdog?
QUINCY WILSON: The biggest challenge is to go out there and just play football, not worry about, oh, we're playing Alabama.  It's just another opportunity to go out there and showcase our talent.
Q. Quincy, how much did coming to Florida just improve your game, being around guys like Vernon, Jalen, Marcus, et cetera?
QUINCY WILSON: It improved my game a lot.  I came to Florida so I could be with the best DBs, and we definitely have the best DBs in the nation.  Learning from other top guys like Vernon and Brian Poole and Keanu Neal and Marcus Maye really has made myself into a well rounded defensive back.
Q. I mean, what are some of the main lessons that you took away?  Was it work ethic?  Film study?  Competing?  What was it?
QUINCY WILSON: Definitely the competition part was probably the biggest factor in who I am today.  Going to practice every day and competing against the best, it just brings out the best in you.
Q. And with Jalen particularly, that relationship, you discussed it before, but just how critical has that been for both of you guys to develop the way you have?
QUINCY WILSON: It's definitely critical in our situation.  Every day, going against -- competing against Jalen in practice for playing time and stuff like that has really made us be the best because we had to come out and put together game-like practices every day.
Q. Other than two losses this season, the defense has bounced back and only given up 13 total points after those two games.  Do you feel like the defense plays better after losses, and can we expect the same thing this week?
QUINCY WILSON: I think you could just expect the same thing this week.  We're going to go out there and do what we do and try to dominate.  If we can play the way we know we can play, we'll handle business.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT