NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 22, 2013
Michael McMullan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   To my left, Michael McMullan, Northwestern, and instead of asking you about the match and the first question, perhaps you can spell your name so we get it right for the future.   
MICHAEL McMULLAN:   It's something that has been a constant obstacle in my life (Laughter.)   It's tough to overcome, but it's McMullan for the future.   
   
 Q.   You had two scrambles, one right at the end of regulation and then in the overtime.   Is that the situation you wanted to be in with him, a scrambling situation, something you can create something out of?   
MICHAEL McMULLAN:   Yes, definitely, for me an opportunity to wrestle through a position is something that I've proven to be good at.   So anytime I can create a scramble situation helps me out.   
After that first scramble at the end of the third I felt he was tired, so I knew if I could get another scramble that I would probably be able to capitalize on it.   
   
 Q.   This is a talented field.   Did you ever feel like you were the forgotten heavyweight?   
MICHAEL McMULLAN:   I never pay attention to what people think about me.   I just go into practice ever day and try and get better.   I know how good I am, and I use this as an opportunity to show everyone what I'm made of.   
   
 Q.   You're entering the finals this year at the NCAAs, only one loss in your career and wins over lots of major opponents.   What is it about this tournament that gets you fired up?   
MICHAEL McMULLAN:   It's exciting to‑‑ again, it's an opportunity to‑‑ you're dualing people in dual meets all year and wrestling in front of, depending on where you're at, 50 to 100 people.   When you get here, it's thousands of people who want to see good wrestling and want to see people take it to the next level.   That's something that fires me up and it's something that I've capitalized on so far.   
   
 Q.   You're only loss is to Anthony Nelson in the quarters last year.   You get a chance to avenge this in the National Finals.   Can you win?   
MICHAEL McMULLAN:   I have to go out there and create situations where I can score.   I need to create angles on my feet, finish my attacks, make him feel uncomfortable and wrestle my match and dominate from the start to the finish.   
   
 Q.   Two guys from your team in the finals.   What would it be like for you guys to finish this season both winning the championship together, especially based on all the other teams that have guys that people paid a little more attention to?   
MICHAEL McMULLAN:   Yeah, I mean, me and Jay last year had pretty good tournaments, but we knew what we wanted to get this year and that was national championships.   
We know we're capable of doing it.   We have trained all year to accomplish that goal and we have a day before that becomes a reality, so we're excited about it.   
   
 Q.   You wrestled Nelson in the Big 10 tournament.   What do you need to do different to make sure that that result doesn't happen again?   
MICHAEL McMULLAN:   Well, I was able to get in on my shots and create angles.   But my finishes weren't as strong as they normally are.   So focusing on finishing strong, getting him off balance and finishing takedowns.   Scoring points on big guys is what separates people at the end of the day.   
THE MODERATOR:   Michael, thank you.   Congratulations.   Good luck tomorrow night.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT