ROLAND GARROS
October 5, 2020
Sofia Kenin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  S. KENIN/F. Ferro
 2-6, 6-2, 6-1
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. You were very expressive at the end of the match today.  Tell us what that moment felt like and what it means to reach the quarterfinals.
 SOFIA KENIN:   Yeah, I was just super proud of myself.  Yes, there was a lot of emotions.  I was just super happy that I won.  Like, the crowd wasn't the best, which is understandable, but still I wish it would have been a little bit different.
 Yeah, I'm like super happy that I'm in the quarters.  I usually don't play really good on clay.  In the past in juniors, I really hated the clay.  Last year I started to like it for the first time.
 I'm just super proud of myself.  I feel like I'm playing really well.
 Q. Share with us what the dynamics of the relationship with your father is like, what is it like to be coached by him?  Does he do all your on-court coaching?  What is the dynamic to have your dad there, throughout much of the tour?
 SOFIA KENIN:   Yeah, I mean, he's always been my coach.  We've made it work.  He knows my game, he knows me better than anyone else.  Yes, he does on-court coaching every time.  It's been working, so I'm not going to change anything about that.
 Yeah, I mean, like I say, he knows my game.  He knows what to say in the toughest moments.  When I'm down, he knows how to get me through the match, I guess.  He knows what he's talking about.
 Q. You were talking about the crowd.  In one sense did that motivate you a little bit more to push yourself a bit more in the match today?
 SOFIA KENIN:   Yeah, I tried to use that as motivation.  Obviously I was not really too happy with how it was going.  I knew it's expected.  I understand why.  I'm playing a French player, and she's had a great run here.  Of course, they obviously wanted her to win.
 I just try to tell myself one point at a time, eventually it's going to change if I just keep playing.  Yeah, I definitely used the crowd as motivation because I really wanted to win.  First of all, I did it for myself.  I guess it's always nice to get the win obviously.
 Q. What did you think when you looked up and saw your dad had moved over to where her coach was sitting?
 SOFIA KENIN:   Well, first of all, I mean, I don't know, like, why her coach sat in that section.  On the right, it's the higher seed.  I would imagine that he would be sitting on the other side.  I didn't really understand why he was sitting there.
 Yeah, I mean, my dad sat there.  He tried to help me, so I'm not going to -- I really don't know what I can really say about that.  I don't know what to say.  I mean, he just sat there and it worked.  There's nothing much to discuss about that.
 Q. How do you mean he helped you?  How did he help you?
 SOFIA KENIN:   I mean, motivating me, helping me when I was losing, still trying to help me.  Obviously not telling tactics, which is what the ref was telling me, that he's coaching me, which he wasn't.  I even told her, All he's saying is motivation.
 She is like, Yeah, yeah, I know he's saying motivation things.
 I just couldn't deal with that right now.  Yeah, he's there supporting me.  He obviously wants me to win and wants the best for me.
 Q. With all the success you've had all around the world, first time in the quarterfinals not just here but at a clay court tournament, what was it about the clay that maybe took you until now to reach this next step?
 SOFIA KENIN:   Well, I feel like last year I started to really like the clay after my great run.  I played Serena.  It was obviously a lot of emotions as well there.  Yeah, after that I started to really like the clay.
 I knew what to expect.  It's a lot of sliding, it's very physical.  I just tried to adjust my game to it.  I feel like as each match went, I'm more and more comfortable on the clay.
 Yeah, I'm super proud to be in the quarterfinals.  Because this used to be a surface that I really don't like.  Now it's obviously a surface that I really enjoy playing on.
 Q. Why did you cry at the end of the match?  Was it just the emotion, the joy?
 SOFIA KENIN:   Yeah, emotions of different stuff.  Obviously the crowd wasn't for me.  It was obviously tough on me.  Yeah, I was obviously happy.  Quarterfinals.  I obviously wanted to win.  Yeah, just emotions about that.
 Of course joy.  I was super proud of myself.  I wish I wouldn't have cried.  But, yeah, like I said, it was a lot of emotions.
 Q. This is a slightly cheeky question.  You had to dig deep during the match.  When you sat down to chat to us just now, you breathed in, you said to yourself, Fingers crossed.  You also have crossed your fingers a few times as well during this media conference.  How proud will you be to keep those fingers crossed to battle through this media conference?  I think you're winning your bets right now.
 SOFIA KENIN:   Yes, I really hope I can keep playing the way I'm playing or better.  I'm deep in the tournament.  Yeah, I feel like I have to step up my game because obviously I'm going to play tough opponents.  We're all playing well.  It's going to be a tough match.
 But, yeah, I guess fingers crossed for the next round.
 Q. What do you like the most about your game and what thing do you want to improve the most?
 SOFIA KENIN:   I love the dropshot on my game.  Of course, I have different stuff that I really like.  But dropshots is definitely a key.  It's a great factor, especially on the clay.
 I guess to improve just my serve.  Try I guess higher percentage.  Just the usual.  Yeah, dropshot always works.
 Q. Are you concerned at all about fitness levels going into the homestretch here, being in both doubles and singles?  You had a little bit of tape on your leg today.
 SOFIA KENIN:   Yeah, actually I'm not going to get into how that happened.  I kind of pulled it during my warmup.  Like I said, I'm not going to get into it.  I kind of slipped, did a really good split.  I obviously felt like I pulled it.
 It's obviously sore.  Obviously not the best.  Obviously wish it wouldn't be like that.  I'm going to do everything I can to just get ready.
 Fitness level, I feel like I'm there.  I'm moving well.  I'm playing well.  I got to get my leg ready for tomorrow.  I'm happy to be playing matches.  I'm not going to complain.  I love playing with Bethanie and I'm super excited for my singles.
 Q. Comments on possible opponents.
 SOFIA KENIN:   Jabeur I've played quite a bit.  I've beaten her all the time except one time.  I think it's 5-1 or 4-1.  I forgot the ratio.  Yeah, I played her last time at US Open.  It was a really tough match.  She's obviously playing some great tennis.  She's a really tough player to play.  She's got a lot of variety.  She's very tricky.  It's going to be an interesting match.
 Against Danielle, I played her in Adelaide.  She played a good match.  I didn't feel like I could get my rhythm.  Yeah, I lost.  But, yeah, we'll see how it's going to go.  She's obviously playing well.  She's aggressive.  Yeah, I'll just see what's going to happen.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT