ROLAND GARROS
October 1, 2020
Sofia Kenin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  S. KENIN/A. Bogdan
 3-6, 6-3, 6-2
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. Can you just talk through the match and just both tactically, on the court, and execution, how you were able to turn that around?  Kind of mentally and psychologically what was going on through your mind as that match kind of played out?
 SOFIA KENIN:   Yeah, first set wasn't, just didn't go my way.  I couldn't find my rhythm.  She was playing really well.  I knew I needed to somehow change my game or else I'm going to be out.  Did not want that, definitely.
 So I just felt like I was putting more balls in the second and third set, playing more aggressive and playing the way I wanted to play.
 Yeah, I mean, she was playing really well and I knew I needed to just fight in order to win.
 Q. On that point in terms of losing that first set and trying to play a different way, was it just a matter of telling yourself, Jeez, stop missing, bring your errors down?  Was it, hit cleaner through the ball, faster through the ball?  What do you have to tell yourself to switch things up?
 SOFIA KENIN:   Well, just to fight and, yeah, finally put some balls in the court and stop missing so much, I guess.  Yeah, I was getting a bit down on myself, but I guess it helped today so it's fine.
 Q. How are you handling conditions?  Are you and your dad watching the weather forecast more than normal at typical events, just given how differently the ball on the courts play depending on what the weather is looking like here in Paris?
 SOFIA KENIN:   No, I'm not watching the weather.  I mean, he obviously warned me that it's going to be quite raining during this time, but he obviously wanted the tournament to happen, and so did I.  I'm happy it's happening.
 In the first round I wanted to play after the first set, so I was eager to get out.  Did not work out so well at the beginning, so now I'm just like I'm not going to say anything.  I'm just going to sit and be quiet, see what's going to happen.  Not going to push to go on.
 Yeah, I'm not watching the weather or anything.
 Q. I'm from Belgium, so I just have a question before your potential opponent in the next round.  May be Alison Van Uytvanck.  She still has to go on court.  What can you tell me about her?  Because I guess you probably remember playing her in Lyon just before the tour had to stop due to COVID.
 SOFIA KENIN:   Yes, I remember.  It was 7-6, 6-7, 7-6.  I don't know what's going to happen.  I played Bara a few years ago in like a 50 or 60,000 in Dothan.  Also quite a close match.
 Either one, they are obviously playing well.  It's going to be a tough match.  Third round, everyone is going to be playing some good tennis.  We'll see how it's going to go.
 Q. What do you do between matches?  Obviously, we all know how different this major is compared to what's gone before.  So have you changed what you would normally do between matches?  Just give us an idea of what you're doing.
 SOFIA KENIN:   Not doing anything so different.  Just trying to have a good warmup and just wait.  Try to have good practices when I'm not playing.  Luckily we are playing doubles with Bethanie so I don't need to practice, which is good.  I don't want to be on the court that long before singles, so I get to have an easy half an hour hit with her and hopefully do some damage in doubles.
 Yeah, I'm just trying to take it easy.  That's it.
 Q. You have spoken in the past how you are very emotional, very driven.  Can you just chat to us about the range of emotions you go through before a match, during a match, and after a match, and how you make sure that those emotions help you to play your best tennis on the court.  And also how you look after yourself in terms of your emotional well-being, as well.
 SOFIA KENIN:   Yeah, before the match I get quite emotional.  Sometimes crying.  Luckily here there are no tears, thank God.  I'm obviously nervous, I want to do well.
 During the match I just try to put the emotions aside.  I don't have time to think about my emotions.  I have to play one point at a time.
 After, you know, if I win, I'm happy, I'm going to take the victory.  If I lose, I'm crying.  So far, so good.  I'm quite happy with the way I'm playing.
 These two matches have been quite tough.  I felt like I couldn't find my rhythm in both of them and found a way at the end, so I'll take it.
 Q. Last time you played a Belgian it didn't really go your way at the US Open against Elise Mertens.  Are you kind of wary about the qualities of the Belgians since you also had an idol in Kim Clijsters?
 SOFIA KENIN:   No, I'm not too worried about that.  When I played Alison I won last, so I'm going to take that if I have to play her.
 Yeah, I'd rather not think about my match against Mertens or Kim Clijsters, because it wasn't the best matches from my side.  Of course they played well so I'm not going to take anything from them.  But yeah, I'm not too worried if I play Alison.
 Q. What are you doing to keep yourself busy in Paris since there isn't much wandering around or shopping or anything like that?  What's occupying your time?
 SOFIA KENIN:   Well, I mean, there is no shopping so there is nothing I can do.  We're in a bubble so I've got a list ahead kind of after the tournament and hopefully I can do well.  Yeah, I'll just do some shopping when I'm back home I guess.
 Q. Are you watching TV or on your phone?  What are you doing in your room?  There is a lot of time to kill during the off days and stuff?
 SOFIA KENIN:   Yeah, I'm watching tennis.  I like watching it and seeing matches, especially the top players, seeing them play and hopefully get the victory so there is not many upsets hopefully.
 Yeah, I mean, I post stuff on my Instagram, on my social channels so I'm sure you guys know.  Yeah, that's about it.
 Q. I was watching your match on TV, and at the end of the match there was a camera shot which panned between you and your dad.  He was wearing a mask, but you could see the glint in his eye and the sparkle through the mask, the close connection between you.  How much does it feel like you're really a team in it together and in it to win it?
 SOFIA KENIN:   Yeah, I mean, he obviously is worried when I'm playing.  I'm trying to do the best I can on court.
 Yeah, I mean, he obviously cares.  You can see that.  He's there every point.  You know, he obviously knows it's not easy.  I like to have a little bit of a dramatic entrance and a dramatic finish.  That's what he said just a few minutes ago, like, You don't like to win 5-1, 40-Love?  You like to make it a little bit interesting.
 I guess I'm doing the best with the dramatic stuff, so yeah.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT