US OPEN
September 1, 2020
Sofia Kenin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. KENIN/Y. Wickmayer
6-2, 6-2
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
Q. How did the COVID precautions affect your preparation?
SOFIA KENIN:   Yeah, it affected me, because obviously everything was shut down and everything.  But for confidence, I guess at the beginning, it wasn't the best, of course, given the circumstances.  But, yeah, I felt like I was in rhythm, I was playing well, and then all of a sudden everything just got shut down.
That's how it affected me.  Yeah, it's really unfortunate.
Q. How did your Grand Slam victory prepare you for this Grand Slam at the US Open?  Did it give you confidence?  Did it affect your preparation physically, mentally?  Can you talk about that?
SOFIA KENIN:   Yeah, that definitely helped me.  I feel like coming off after winning Aussie, definitely did a lot for my confidence.  Yeah, US Open is the first Grand Slam after it.  Usually it's French.
But, yeah, I just tried to use what I got in Aussie and just try to use my confidence and play well.  It definitely helped me.  I tried to not feel so much pressure, but I just handled the situation really well.
Q. Compare the two tournaments.  Obviously there is no fans here, but compare the Aussie Open to the US Open, because you did make it several rounds last year at the US Open.
SOFIA KENIN:   Yeah, of course no fans is a really big letdown.  But, yeah, I really love both Grand Slams.  I love all the slams.
But, yeah, I feel like I'm playing well in New York.  I feel like it brings out the best in me.  It obviously is still my favorite Grand Slam, but of course Aussie is more.  But, yeah, I feel like I just play the best tennis here.
I'm playing well.  It's unfortunate the fans are not here, but I just try to do the best I can under the circumstances.
Q. Can you talk a little bit about making a transition from here at the US Open to head right over to Europe?  Do you think a little bit that the players who decided to skip the US Open may have an advantage at Roland Garros?
SOFIA KENIN:   Yeah, transition-wise it's going to be really different.  It's in two weeks or something is Rome.  Yeah, it's unfortunate that the players cannot come here.  Of course obviously I wish everyone could come, everyone could play.  But quarantine, everything is crazy with the virus.
Yeah, of course I feel like they will have a bit of an advantage.  They're practicing on clay.  I've seen like Goerges practicing, other people practicing.
For now I'm in New York so I'm not going to really worry about that.  I feel like I will have enough time, enough days to practice.
Yeah, we'll just see how it goes over there.
Q. What's the key to making that transition as quickly as you'll have to do it for you?
SOFIA KENIN:   Well, obviously it's clay.  It's slower.  You have to grind more.  You move a lot more.  You have to slide.  Obviously it's a very different transition.  But I had success last year, and after that I feel like things clicked for me.  I used to hate clay, to be honest, but after last year I started to like it and started to enjoy it.
I'm really excited to get on the red clay but not just yet (smiling).
Q. After your performance in Cincinnati, it seemed like you were really stunned that that happened.  How much did it weigh on your mind in the week since?  How did you kind of get it out of your head?  How relieved are you to be able to put in the performance you did today?
SOFIA KENIN:   Well, to be honest, I did not have the best practices after Cincinnati.  Even in doubles I felt like I'm not feeling my game.  I wasn't feeling so great.
But, yeah, I tried to do the best I can.  I tried to tell myself match is what happens on match day.  Coming into Aussie, I obviously wasn't practicing well, as well, again.  So I think I did pretty well there.
Like I said, here I wasn't playing well, so I just tried to focus more on my shots, working on some things, just bigger targets.  Of course I think it's a really good win, good boost for my confidence.  I played really well.
Yeah, I focused on my key elements of the game.  Yeah, I'm just really happy with the way I played.
Q. How stressed were you today?
SOFIA KENIN:   Yeah, I was stressed, obviously.
Q. Were you worried?
SOFIA KENIN:   Definitely.  Like I said, I wasn't feeling well.  I just tried to tell myself, Big targets.  Don't go for too much.  First round, Grand Slam, it's new.  A lot of emotions.
Last Grand Slam I won, so obviously coming off as a Grand Slam champion this year.  Yeah, I just felt a little more emotional, everything.
Had to let it out, had to let off some steam before the match.  I handled it really well.  She was playing really well.  The score was 2 and 2, but it was really close and she played really well.
Q. How does Sonya Kenin blow off steam before a match?
SOFIA KENIN:   Crying (smiling).  That's what I did.  I mean, I had to let it out.  That's not the answer that people would like to hear, but, yeah, everyone knows in Aussie, yeah, I was crying every day before my match.  I mean, it's fine.  It worked.
Q. No judgment on it.  Everybody deals with it differently.  At what point during the match today did you start to feel like, Okay, like, I'm good, I feel the court, I feel the ball, everything's fine?
SOFIA KENIN:   Honestly, winning the first game, it was close.  Just really happy to have gotten that.  Then serving, I was up 2-Love, I was, like, Okay, I really feel my serve, I'm feeling the game.
Yeah, she's got a big serve, so I felt it right from the beginning and I'm just really proud of myself.
Q. You either play Leylah Fernandez or Vera Zvonareva in the second round.  How familiar are you with them?  One is really young and one is older and played before you came on tour.
SOFIA KENIN:   With Leylah, I have practiced a few times, so I kind of know her game more or less.  A bit obviously way better than Vera.  I haven't played her.  Haven't really watched her.
From what I know, Leylah won the first, 6-4, I don't know what's going on.  It's going to be a different matchup.  I feel like if I play Leylah, it's going to be a little bit more pressure on me.  She is a young rising star, playing some really good tennis.  Vera, has a lot of experience, been there.  It's going to be a good matchup, and hopefully I can do well.
Q. What do you appreciate the most about the style of play and career of Serena?
SOFIA KENIN:   Her serve, honestly.  I feel like she's got the best serve.  I really look up to her.  Her feistiness.  She's playing some really good tennis.  I really respect her a lot.
Q. Maybe you can elaborate on how you prepared and blew off steam before the match today, considering that you were coming off a loss so recently.
SOFIA KENIN:   Yeah, I mean, I had to blow it off by crying.  Not bad, obviously.  It's nothing bad.
Yeah, I was just really nervous.  I had to let it out and just regroup and just tell myself, you know, It's the first match.  Just try to get a nice groove, feel the court.  I just felt like I was playing really well.  Obviously there is no more tears.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT