US OPEN
September 3, 2020
Sofia Kenin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  S. KENIN/L. Fernandez
 6-4, 6-3
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. You're known as one of the best returners in the game.  Who are the toughest servers to return?  How has playing doubles with a variety of partners influenced your singles?
 SOFIA KENIN:   I would definitely say the toughest return is Serena's serve.  Ash has a good serve.  Petra Kvitova has a good serve.  Julia Goerges.
 Doubles helps me.  I'm working on returns, coming into the net more, playing at the net more.  I think that definitely helped me into my singles.  The more I play doubles, the warmer and looser I feel for singles because I feel that I've had enough match play.  Doubles is something I really enjoy.
 Q. Talk about today's win.
 SOFIA KENIN:   Yeah, today was a good win.  I'm really proud of myself, the way I played.  She's a tough player.  I knew she's going to give me different shots, different looks.  She played a good match.  I just feel like I just played stable today.
 Q. You are a Grand Slam champion.  How do you feel your level is today compared to then?
 SOFIA KENIN:   I feel like my level is there definitely.  I feel like maybe it was a bit better in Australia.  As I got in these two matches, I have them under the belt, I feel like I'm playing better, feeling the court well, playing my game.
 Leading up to the US Open, last week in Cincy and after that, practices weren't the best, wasn't feeling 100% at all.  I feel like I'm happy with the way I bounced back.  I'm able to find my rhythm again.
 Q. What do you remember most from your Australian Open quarterfinal win against your next opponent here?
 SOFIA KENIN:   Yeah, we're really good friends.  Respect her.  Always have good matches.  I remember it was a close match.  She's playing well.  She played well there.  She's playing well now.
 It's just a matter of taking my chances, matter of executing my shots, serving well, playing my aggressive game.  Feel like it's going to be a bit tougher tomorrow since she knows my game and she lost to me last time in Australia.  I feel like I know her game well, as well.  We'll see how it's going to go.  It should be a good match.
 Q. How much more settled do you feel through two rounds, getting straight-set wins, feeling like you have your range?
 SOFIA KENIN:   Definitely I feel much more settled.  I feel like I found a groove.  I'm playing well in those two matches.  I'm really focused on, like, every shot.  Obviously I wasn't feeling great leading up to this event.  I'm just trying to focus a bit more.  It's helping me.  I'm playing some really good tennis.  Serving really well these past two matches.  I'm just really happy.
 Q. Are your practices getting better?  Are you still struggling out on the practice courts?
 SOFIA KENIN:   Right now it's fine.  After the singles, it was already fine.  I know I just need to get a groove, have the matches, play a bit doubles.  It helps me out.  Obviously I'm practicing well.  I shouldn't have any trouble practicing any more.
 Q. Talking about Ons as your next opponent.  Personally between the two of you, I know you razzed each other on Twitter back in Australia, talk about her as a person and how your friendship developed.
 SOFIA KENIN:   We've known each for a while.  I played her a couple times in a 25,000.  First time I ever played her in a 75,000 Indian Harbour.  As we played tournaments, we talked a bit.  Yeah, she's really nice.  We both respect each other really well.  Yeah, we always joke around when we see each other.  I don't think during the match there will be any jokes, it's going to be a bit serious.  After the match, whoever wins, good friends, it's not going to change anything.
 Q. How important is it to you or does it weigh on your mind at all making a statement here at the US Open?  You won a major, No. 2 seed.  Does that add any motivation/pressure to replicate that success here on home soil?
 SOFIA KENIN:   Yeah, definitely.  I definitely want to play well.  Yeah, had a good run in Aussie.  Here I'm just trying to focus on one match at a time.  Obviously want to do well.  I'm trying really hard, trying to be focused there, do everything I can to get ready.  So far it's been going good, so hopefully we'll keep it rolling.
 Q. You always conduct yourself with such urgency on the court, move fast in between points.  Were you always like that from childhood?  Is that something you learned?
 SOFIA KENIN:   Yeah, I guess I've always walked fast.  Used to be not worse but faster.  Now at least I'm taking my time, going to the towel.  It's not as fast.  Obviously especially when I'm losing, I try to go fast.  I guess you can see that obviously (smiling).
 Q. You're losing, you start to go fast?
 SOFIA KENIN:   Yeah.  It's not the intention, supposed to be like that.  But I do go fast, yeah.  I got the walk in, so...
 Q. There's obviously a lot of young American women who have had tremendous amounts of hype in recent years, including now.  Were there any points where you felt overlooked?  Do you feel that has changed since winning Australia?
 SOFIA KENIN:   Yeah, definitely sometimes I did feel I was overlooked, I wasn't really taken serious, different things.  Yeah, I just didn't want to focus on that.  Obviously I wasn't focused on that.  I'm there to play for myself.  My dad is with me by my side.
 Obviously winning Aussie definitely really helped with my confidence, changed, like, my image drastically.  After that I feel like people know me and respect me.  I obviously did it for myself.  Of course it's always nice to get back at the people I guess who didn't really believe in you or treat you fair, so...
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT