MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAú
March 23, 2021
Sofia Kenin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. How have you been feeling since the appendectomy in Australia?  Talk about the appendix journey?
 SOFIA KENIN:   Yeah, I mean, it's quiet a long journey.  Definitely not the Australia that I expected.  I mean, I woke up and I just felt some really bad pain in my stomach.  I thought it was cramps.  I was hoping it was cramps.  I took some medication, then went to the Australian Open doctor.  They said it obviously wasn't cramps.  They did an ultrasound there.  They said, Okay, you have to go to the hospital.  Apparently, yeah, it was my appendix.  I was there for like a day and a half.  Then a week we were just hanging there in Melbourne, so...
 Yeah, definitely wasn't the journey that I expected.  But I'm grateful they caught it on time.  I had great doctors and they did a great job for me.
 Q. I saw you in the stands for some of the men's matches.  Were you able to enjoy some time resting in Melbourne after all that?
 SOFIA KENIN:   Yeah, of course.  I love Melbourne very much.  Of course, I wish I would have been playing instead of being I guess like a fan.  It was fun to see some matches.  I watched Novak in the final.  It was a good match.  Yeah, I enjoyed myself there.
 Q. I wanted to ask you, being that it's kind of the hometown tournament for you, how is it different when you play this tournament?  I know the tennis is the same, but how is it different for you playing at home versus playing around the world?
 SOFIA KENIN:   Well, yeah, this tournament is quite homey for me.  It's like 20, 30 minutes from our house.  Yeah, I definitely feel like I've got some fans obviously here.  Local girl.  It's obviously nice being back home and playing.
 But now we're obviously in the bubble so can't stay at home.  I'm super excited to be here and I'm looking forward to my next match.
 Q. Is it strange that you're so close to home and you still have to stay in a hotel as if it's a road trip?
 SOFIA KENIN:   I mean, doesn't feel like a road trip.  But, yeah, it obviously is strange.  If it wouldn't be for the bubble, I would stay at home.  I'm not home so often, so it would be nice to be home with my family.  It is what it is.  I'm happy to be here, yeah.
 Q. I was wondering about your experience so far in Grand Slams.  I know you've talked about dealing with your emotions, what a loss can mean, what a win can mean.  Can you take us through how your handle yourself, maybe put that in a rearview mirror when you compete in tournaments?  How have you gotten strong that way?
 SOFIA KENIN:   I've gotten used to expectations in matches, I guess the pressure from the outside.  Slams is obviously where everyone tries to do well there.  Obviously my eye is on it.  Yeah, I just had to handle the pressure, handle the pressure and nerves.  Couldn't do great in Australia.  I think it kind of took a toll on me.
 It's like a month and a half ago, so it doesn't matter what was there.  We're now.  I'm just going to do everything I can now to handle my emotions.
 Q. You mentioned considering this your hometown tournament.  I'm curious, there was a time where Kim Clijsters served as the tennis ambassador for you and walked you around.  There are some great photos from that.  Do you have any memories of that?  How significant is it for you to have success at your hometown tournament?
 SOFIA KENIN:   Yeah, I remember that video really well.  I remember the moment.  It was so nice what Kim was doing.  Pam was even there.  Everyone was there.
 Obviously it was quite different, sitting in the media center, she was, This is where you have those big interviews.  Obviously you could tell I was super excited.  I loved every minute with her.  Glad that she's playing.
 Second, yeah, it is my hometown, my home tournament.  Obviously it's nice to be on my home courts.  Yeah, we'll just see how it goes.
 Q. I know you guys are in the bubble, but this being your hometown tournament, do you feel as if you have any advantage here?  How do you feel growing up in south Florida in such a tennis-focused area, and how has impacted your tennis?
 SOFIA KENIN:   Yeah, I mean, I think it's good to be out here.  Definitely feel like these courts are my courts.  It's like any other tournament, it's a tough one, everyone is playing well.  I'm going to do everything I can to prepare well.
 What was the second question?
 Q. How do you feel about growing up in Miami, south Florida specifically, being more of a tennis-focused area, how that impacted your tennis?
 SOFIA KENIN:   Yeah, there's a lot of great academies, a lot of girls in south Florida.  I'm always practicing at Evert.  Hitting with some girls there.
 Tennis, obviously lots of girls, lots of courts.  You're able to practice.  Yeah, I'm happy to be here in south Florida.  I love Florida very much.  I'm grown up here.  Yeah, it's a beautiful place to live.
 Q. In Australia you were feeling pretty stressed about the situation of being defending champion, expectations.  How are you feeling mentally at this point in the season, what sort of pressure you sense, where is your head at right now?
 SOFIA KENIN:   Well, I had surgery in Australia.  I had to get my appendix removed.  I think that of course was unfortunate.  I could use that time as a break to get it together and somehow just take my mind off tennis.
 Right now I'm just grateful to have fully in a way recovered after my surgery.  I'm playing well.  Given the circumstances, I still don't feel 100% with my tennis-wise since I took a few weeks off and everything.  I'm just happy that I'm able to play Miami Open.  It was my eye, that was what I was planning to shoot for, start again my tour.  I'm super happy.
 Q. Being that we're still in a pandemic environment, a lot of players have decided they're going to maybe taking less events on their schedule, maybe adapt, one tournament in, two tournaments out.  Have you adjusted your schedule or are you going to try to play every tournament here on out?
 SOFIA KENIN:   No, I'll do what I'm planning to do, certain tournaments.  I'm not going to change my schedule due to the whole pandemic.  I'll just be really careful, obviously.
 Yeah, I've already had a few weeks off.  I missed already a few tournaments.  Definitely want to play.
 THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT