DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 18, 2020
Sofia Kenin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








E. RYBAKINA/S. Kenin
6-7, 6-3, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. This was a match that could have been a final in another tournament. How do you feel you played? What do you think made the difference?
SOFIA KENIN: Yeah, I just didn't feel my game really well. Of course, yeah, she played well. I just made too many unforced errors. I just didn't take my chances. I felt really off the whole match. I tried to somehow get back in there, hang in there, but it just didn't work out today.
Q. She's on this hot streak. Can you talk about her game a little bit, what do you think she's doing well?
SOFIA KENIN: Yeah, I mean, she's having a lot of match play. She's having great results. She's playing some really good tennis. I think this is the best tennis that I've seen her play. I know her, but I've never played her.
Yeah, she's playing big, serving, playing freely. She's playing as if she has no pressure and it's helping her.
Q. What do you think was off today compared to a couple weeks ago?
SOFIA KENIN: I don't know. It's just a different situation, everything. I mean, in Australia I felt like I was on a roll. I had a lot of matches. Here I'm just starting first match. Obviously a bit more pressure coming from my side. But I just got to somehow try to manage it for the next tournaments.
Q. How are you holding up? You've had a lot of matches. Tough schedule ahead.
SOFIA KENIN: No, I'm fine. Body-wise everything is fine. I'm not injured or anything. I'm just a little bit tired obviously. Other than that, I feel fine. I'm ready to go.
Q. Any loss is disappointing. Can you describe how you're feeling about today.
SOFIA KENIN: Yeah, I'm not happy. I'm really upset about this. I really thought I could have somehow turned it around. I felt like I had the match play, I had the confidence.
It just didn't work out today. It's obviously really upsetting and disappointing at the moment.
Q. What is the way forward for you? What do you think you've got to do?
SOFIA KENIN: Next? I mean, I just got to prepare for doubles for tomorrow. Hopefully we can get the win. Yeah, just prepare for every tournament.
Next is Doha for me. I will try to do my best. There's a lot more tournaments coming up, obviously more important ones and bigger ones. Hopefully I can play better there. Obviously there is where it matters and where it counts. Hopefully I can bring my game up there.
Q. How difficult is it to balance singles and doubles at the same time? If you continued this week, two matches a day.
SOFIA KENIN: Yeah, I've never had a problem balancing out. I have done singles and doubles. Yeah, it's no problem for me. I'm young. I can manage it for now.
Q. Are you thinking of playing doubles at the Olympics?
SOFIA KENIN: Hopefully, yeah. I would like to play maybe with Bethanie if possible. We haven't really talked about it, playing. We're playing a lot, so hopefully we can make it.
Q. The two matches before, the high seeds lost as well. Did you see that at all? Does that ever play in your mind?
SOFIA KENIN: No. I just think the opponents, they played well. They obviously have no pressure. They're playing more freely. I just feel like there's more pressure on me obviously, and them. I'm sure it's a lot of expectations.
Yeah, I didn't think about it stepping on the court. I try to focus on myself. Doesn't matter what's happening. Obviously, I don't know, yeah, that's just how it is.
Q. Seems like you're someone who can be hard on yourself a bit. You're not cutting yourself slack at all for today it seems. Is that a fair assessment?
SOFIA KENIN: Yeah, I think if I wouldn't be hard on myself, I wouldn't have good results. I feel like, yeah, I need to be hard on myself in order to make sure I'm still in check and doing what I want to do and playing how I want to play.
Q. With the new rule that your dad can speak with you from the stands, did you remember he could do that and what might he have said?
SOFIA KENIN: Yeah, I remember. Just a little bit he did it. But it wasn't too much. He usually tries not to say anything anyways because the match, you can't say exactly what to do. It's just to pump you up, help you.
There's not much of a secret when you're playing. On court, the sidelines, there's nothing much to be said except just basic stuff.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT