AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 30, 2020
Sofia Kenin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. KENIN/A. Barty
7-6, 7-5
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How did you win that match?
SOFIA KENIN: How? I was just fighting. She's such a tough player. Of course, I'd like to first apologize to all of the Australian fans. I know they wanted her to win. It's not easy for them. I beat world No. 1.
Yeah, I'm so grateful and so happy. She played such a great match. She's a really great player.
Q. You've had such an air of confidence this tournament. Today on court you looked like you were shocked. How would you describe your emotions making it to the first semifinal?
SOFIA KENIN: Final?
Q. Yes.
SOFIA KENIN: I'm not shocked. It's a dream come true for me. I've always dreamed about this.
Of course, I believed in myself. I was playing, I knew I was in the semifinal. It was just great. I'm so happy I was able to share the court with Ash.
Yeah, after the match, of course it's pretty emotional. It's the finals. It's something different. It's surreal. Yeah, so grateful for it.
Q. A lot has been written about you from a young age. Did you always believe you would get to a Grand Slam final at such a young age?
SOFIA KENIN: I mean, I always believed I can. Of course, I didn't have a book. I didn't know exactly when. I feel like at this young age, I think it's incredible. Not everyone gets to live this moment, live this dream. I'm just really grateful for it.
I've worked so hard. I've put all the efforts into my practices, into my fitness. All the efforts I've been doing, it's got me here. It's just paying off and it's like a dream come true for me.
Q. And the Andy Roddick videos?
SOFIA KENIN: I think everyone knows about it. I'm doing an interview thing, I can return his serve, how I will return it.
By the way, he tweeted something about me. He said congratulations and stuff, so... Thank you, Andy.
Q. What do you think allowed you in each of the sets to be right on the brink, twice a point from losing the first and second set, to hang in there and come through?
SOFIA KENIN: Well, I believed I could win even though I had two set points down in the first and second. I could literally feel, I was telling myself, I believe in myself. If I lose the set, I'm still going to come out and believe. Yeah, I really did a great job with it. I didn't give up.
I knew it was a tough match. Of course, some things didn't go my way with the challenges and some great shots she came up with. But I didn't let that stop me.
Yeah, I was fighting. I left everything out all on the court, so it paid off.
Q. What was working particularly well in your game today?
SOFIA KENIN: I think serve is number one. I feel like I was serving well. I knew I needed to serve well. But I feel like I had a clear mindset on how I want to play her.
Of course, she was serving really well. I was able to somehow find my rhythm on the return. Yeah, I got some free points and stuff.
I felt like I was just really trying to focus on cutting down any unforced errors because, I mean, I'm playing world No. 1, I'm playing Ash, who is playing really some solid tennis. I knew she's not going to give any free points.
I knew it was going to be a battle out there. Obviously it was by the score.
Q. Out there you have a focus, a will to win. Where do you think that comes from?
SOFIA KENIN: I've always had that. No matter who I'm playing, where I'm playing, I'm going to fight for it. It doesn't matter. Of course, I have a lot of respect for my opponents when I'm playing.
When I'm going on court, I'm there to win, I'm there to do my job. I'm doing my best. I don't know what else I can say. Just that (smiling).
Q. Do you feel like you're close to your ceiling or is there a lot more for you to improve and get even better than you already are now?
SOFIA KENIN: Yeah, of course I feel like there's more improvement I can do. But I feel like I've done a lot of things during pre-season to help me improve my fitness level, improving different aspects of my game. I've obviously improved. It's paying off.
Of course, there's more improvement. I just want to get better and keep going.
Q. It's still going on, but talk about each of your potential opponents.
SOFIA KENIN: Well, I don't know what the score is. Who won the first set?
Q. Muguruza 7-6.
SOFIA KENIN: I've played Garbine in Beijing. It was a tough match. She's playing some really good tennis right now. She's had some great wins. She's not easy. She's really aggressive.
Simona is just a grinder. She's going to fight for every point. She's going to fight. Lost to her last year here. So we'll see.
I don't have a preference at this point. I'm just going to wait to see who wins and then just get ready for the final.
Q. What was the atmosphere like out there? Obviously a lot of people here hoping she would win this tournament.
SOFIA KENIN: I loved playing in this atmosphere. I love Australia. It has a special place in my heart. Of course, I knew they were cheering for Ash. There was some interesting cheers. I liked it. But it wasn't for me. I just try to lock it out and focus on each point.
Yeah, atmosphere is amazing. It's why I'm playing. I'm working hard to play at this great stage, great atmosphere. I enjoyed every moment of it.
Hopefully on Saturday it will be a lot more for me.
Q. Did you feel nervous out there ever?
SOFIA KENIN: Of course. But I'm trying to, like, somehow hide it and just not show it. I feel like as I'm going, as I'm playing more matches, I feel like it's becoming less.
Q. Over the past 12, 13 months from the beginning of 2019 to now, you've accomplished a lot. If you could point to one factor that you think was the biggest reason for the step up you've made, what would you say it is?
SOFIA KENIN: I would say after my match against Serena, getting to the fourth round in French -- oh, my God, no, third round in French. Oh, my God. I lost to Ash there. Serena third round.
I feel like after that things just took off. I also played in an atmosphere in which they were cheering for Serena. She's my idol. Winning that match really was a lot of emotions. After that I felt like it took off. Yeah, things just started falling into place for me.
Q. You said you have been dreaming of this time since you were five years old.
SOFIA KENIN: Yeah.
Q. Did you have any specific situations, any tournament, since that time? What was the process of your dream?
SOFIA KENIN: I mean, I always believed I could do it. Obviously, as I started getting more serious, transitioning from juniors to the pros, of course I would love to have been in the final of a Grand Slam. I've always dreamed about it. Being in the final here is obviously the place where it's the best to be.
Yeah, I just feel like I've always believed in myself. I've worked hard. I've pictured so many times being in the final, all the emotions, how it's going to lead up into the final.
I mean, I feel like I'm doing good keeping my emotions. Obviously, it's a bit emotional and stuff. I feel like everything is just paying off. I see all the hard work I've been putting is really showing now.
Q. The way you're feeling now, is this the way you envisioned this would happen?
SOFIA KENIN: No, I feel like it's more now for some reason. It's just more excitement, more emotions than just picturing it. I've always, like, visioned about this.
Yeah, I'm just playing some really great tennis.
Q. Jessie Pegula tweeted she was excited to see you getting the respect you deserve now.
SOFIA KENIN: Thank you, Jess.
Q. Do you feel like you were overlooked before, people weren't paying as much attention to you as they should have? Now there's no denying what you did today.
SOFIA KENIN: I mean, yeah, I know people haven't really paid attention much to me in the past. I had to establish myself, and I have. Of course, now I'm getting the attention, which I like it. Not going to lie.
But, yeah, my phone is blowing up these past two weeks. I haven't been able to check normal, my Instagram, Twitter, everything. It's blowing up. I love this attention. Yeah, I'm enjoying every single moment of it.
THE MODERATOR: This is the opportunity to collect preview quotes, so if you have any more questions heading to the final, this would be the opportunity to ask.
Q. The Australian Open, you talked about this place has a place in your heart. Why is that? Do you have a memory from watching it when you were younger?
SOFIA KENIN: I watched all the Grand Slams when I was younger. Australia, Melbourne, I love the city. The crowds, the people are just so friendly. I enjoy my time here.
Yeah, of course it's even more special since I'm in the finals. Yeah, I just love it here. The atmosphere, it makes you love playing in this type of atmosphere. The fans get so into it. They're cheering. It's really just exciting.
Q. Of all the ones you watched, was there one that you remember? Serena or Kim?
SOFIA KENIN: US Open.
Q. Australian Open final.
SOFIA KENIN: Oh, my gosh. Yeah, I saw Kim against Li Na. I was so happy that she won. I was watching it. Yeah, I mean, she's someone who I've also looked up to.
Q. You're such a great problem solver on court.
SOFIA KENIN: Thank you.
Q. Have you thought about what it would be like if you became a major cutting-edge celebrity in our country?
SOFIA KENIN: That would be amazing. I would love it. I'm still going to prepare myself.
Of course, this is a lot of emotions right now. It's fine today. But tomorrow I'm going to start getting ready for the finals. I'm not done yet. I'm going to go and do everything I can to get that trophy.
Q. You are going to be playing against a Grand Slam champion either way. How are you going to prepare yourself?
SOFIA KENIN: First I'm just going to be enjoying the moment. You don't experience this so often. Of course, I'm going to enjoy it. This is so exciting. Literally butterflies.
I'm just going to also focus on what I need to do, focus on my game. I got here, it's time to shine, do the best I can. Like I said, hopefully do something more special.
Q. If it is Muguruza, how much is it going to be about you playing more counterpunching? How much do you want to take first punches to her?
SOFIA KENIN: Of course I want to do the first punches. I don't want to be in defense against her. She can really put the ball away. She's really aggressive. So I feel like it's going to be who's controlling the points more, who is dictating. Of course, defense is obviously going to help.
Hopefully I can use what I did in Beijing to help me, if I play her, for Saturday's final.
Q. When you throw the ball up, you don't look at it after the toss. What's the story behind that?
SOFIA KENIN: I don't know. I serve like that. I also have changed a little bit. It's not so far. That's worked for me all my life. It got me here, so why change it up now?
Q. You've been doing it since you started playing tennis really?
SOFIA KENIN: Yeah, I guess, yeah.
Q. Caroline Wozniacki just retired. Her dad was her coach. Your father has been by your side. Talk about the dynamic of having your dad as your coach.
SOFIA KENIN: Yeah, I think we just make it work. We came from a tough journey and stuff. We've had to go through some rough patches and everything. But we got here.
We're so proud. I'm so happy that he's here. I get to share this moment with him. I've dreamed about this. I'm sure he's dreamed about this. I'm sure he's proud of me.
Yeah, we make it work. I mean, I don't know what else I can ask for. He's done the work. I've, of course, done a little bit more. I'm moving and doing everything on court.
Yeah, he's been there with me. I'm just really grateful and I'm so happy I can share this with him. Hopefully can be something different to share.
Q. Someone told me you want to live in Manhattan. Is that right?
SOFIA KENIN: Ugo (laughter). I don't know who told you, but yeah, it's true. We were talking about this two days ago over dinner.
Q. Wasn't him, but why is that?
SOFIA KENIN: I don't know. I just like it. It's city life. Maybe because of 'Gossip Girl' as well. That show...
But I love New York. I just love it there. U.S., I feel like Central Park, all of Fifth Avenue, all those shops. I'm a fancy girl, I like those shops. Living the life, so...
Q. Upper East Side?
SOFIA KENIN: Upper East Side, yes, yes.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT