AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 26, 2020
Sofia Kenin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. KENIN/C. Gauff
6-7, 6-3, 6-0
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. A lot of emotions after the match. Can you articulate those, what you were feeling?
SOFIA KENIN: Yeah, obviously it meant a lot to me. I was just so happy to have won. It was a tough match. I knew she's playing well.
Yeah, I was just really happy with the way that I was able to handle my emotions and just fight through every point.
Yeah, I was just so happy that I won.
Q. Were the emotions more about beating her or making it to a quarterfinal for the first time?
SOFIA KENIN: Of course, making it to the quarterfinals is one. Of course, against her, I'm happy.
No, I mean, she played such a tough match. She's really good. Yeah, I'm just so happy to have won.
Yeah, a lot of emotions, as you said, after the match. It's my first quarterfinal. Yeah, I think anyone would get pretty emotional for the first time.
Q. What were the challenges playing her for the first time, maybe a new rivalry?
SOFIA KENIN: Of course, yeah, she's 15. A little bit with the age difference. Of course, she has a lot of hype. She has a big name. Obviously she's playing well.
Yeah, I just tried not to let that get the better of me, just try to take it like any other match, focus on myself, focus on my game, grind it out basically.
Q. Aside from the mental aspect of it, what were you most pleased about the way you played out there today?
SOFIA KENIN: I think just because I found a way. First set, a few points didn't go my way, of course. I made some unforced errors.
She was obviously playing really well, came up with some really good shots at those crucial points, serving really well. She played well. It was tough.
Yeah, just with the fact I was able to hang in there and fight and not give up.
Q. In the first tiebreaker, you had a couple double-faults. You weren't maybe at your best. Was it nerves at that point a little bit?
SOFIA KENIN: Yeah, for sure nerves. Yeah, I was obviously pretty nervous. I tried to somehow handle it well. Of course, first set didn't show that. She played well. Credit to her. Like I said, she played well.
Q. You have mentioned the hype from Coco. Was it okay for you that she was a bit more hyped? You would have expected a bit more media about you because your development is so great the last months?
SOFIA KENIN: No, I'm happy she's doing well. We're all supporting each other. I try not to let that get in my head. I try just to block it all out, do what I do best.
Yeah, I mean, the hype is for her. She's obviously done great stuff, of course. It's absolutely normal. Just try not to let that get in my head.
Q. Now starts your hype?
SOFIA KENIN: Yeah, I guess. I don't know (smiling).
Yeah, of course, I didn't do it for the hype. I did it for myself because I wanted to prove to myself that I could do it. Yeah, I've done it, so...
Q. Especially in the last 12 months you played against fellow Americans very, very well. You had the win over Serena, finished the year No. 2 American, yet still seemingly kind of under the radar maybe. Does that give you some motivation to kind of show people what you can do?
SOFIA KENIN: Yeah, of course. I want to show who I am, show my best tennis, show why I'm there, why I belong. I'm doing that. Yeah, I'm happy.
Q. After losing the first set, what did you say to yourself to keep yourself in the match and come back and dominate the rest of the way?
SOFIA KENIN: Well, I knew it was a few minor details. I felt like I wasn't returning so well. I missed a few opportunities. Of course, she served really well.
I knew I needed to somehow try and break her serve and hold my serve. I think I served pretty good overall, which obviously helped me. Yeah, I'm happy I was able to do that because her serve, it wasn't easy. I knew I needed to hold my serve to make sure I'm in the match, then somehow try to break her serve and hold my serve.
Q. On the American front, it's a tight race for the Olympics this year. You're in good shape for it. How much of a motivating factor is that for you?
SOFIA KENIN: Yeah, I would love to play Olympics. I know it's obviously on the line. I'm trying not to, like, focus on that. There's a lot of tournaments before. Yeah, I'm just trying to right now enjoy the moment.
Yeah, I guess I'm in the race for the Olympics, which is great. Hopefully I can just keep it going.
Q. What aspect of your game do you really like the most?
SOFIA KENIN: I mean, I don't know. I like my dropshots, I guess. Everything. I feel like I dictated well. That was obviously needed for today in order to win. Yeah, basically...
Q. Maybe you're not on the hype every day, but I keep receiving pictures of you from Art Sykes, so must be a friend of yours, since you were five years old. I have hundreds.
SOFIA KENIN: Yes.
Q. Is he doing a press officer for you in a way?
SOFIA KENIN: We're just good friends. I've known him -- I don't know how old I was when I met him. He's been there through my matches and everything.
He sends a lot of pictures to so many people. I'm getting e-mails and stuff, like over a hundred people. Okay, I don't even know half of these people.
But he's good. Yeah, he's good.
Q. As you said, you are returning very well. In terms of strategy, was there anything special? Was it a good read?
SOFIA KENIN: Today?
Q. Yes.
SOFIA KENIN: Honestly, like I knew it was going to be a tough match. I knew I needed to somehow battle out there. She was serving well. I knew I needed to somehow get my returns in, hold my serve, just fight for every point.
She's a really tough player. She's not easy to play. Yeah, I mean, it wasn't much of a tactic. Obviously play my game, dictate. It wasn't something different of a tactic that I do normally than any other match.
Q. What are your thoughts on your next opponent?
SOFIA KENIN: I mean, I don't know. It's going to be a good matchup, I hope. I've played her in Mallorca last year. I know her game pretty well. She's playing well.
It was funny, after the match, we're both biking next to each other. She's like, Good job. I'm, like, You, too. It was fun, a funny moment.
She's, like, Are you feeling tired?
No, I'm good.
She's, like, Yeah, me, too.
I'm, like, Okay. I'll see you on Tuesday then.
Q. She likes dropshots, too.
SOFIA KENIN: Yeah, I know. I'm always prepared for those dropshots. She has really good hands. She's a tough player. It's not going to be easy.
At the level we are, quarterfinals, she's going to bring her best game. I'm going to do my best to bring my best game, as well.
Q. Your intensity on the court is always clear. Do you ever allow yourself to relax off court? If so, how?
SOFIA KENIN: Off court?
Q. Do you do anything where you kind of chill?
SOFIA KENIN: Of course I chill. During a match, no. I've had experiences. When I was little, I was winning 5-1, 5-2, and I lost the match. Doesn't matter what the score is, I can literally lose at any moment. My dad is kind of making sure I'm keeping my head together.
Q. What do you do off court to relax?
SOFIA KENIN: What I did after?
Q. In general, what do you do in life to switch off?
SOFIA KENIN: Try not to watch tennis. Check my media, it's blowing up right now. I haven't had time to answer anyone.
Yeah, I try to relax obviously. But obviously tomorrow we have doubles. I need to prepare for that. Then singles again.
It's kind of hard to completely relax when you're doing a tournament, especially at a slam.
Q. Your racquet, is that a standard paint job or did you request it?
SOFIA KENIN: No, they just said, Do you want to be the girl representing America, having an American racquet?
I was like, Hell, yeah, I want to.
Everyone was asking me during preseason, Did you change racquets?
No, it's Babolat. I'm still with Babolat.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT