SHISEIDO WTA FINALS SHENZHEN
November 1, 2019
Sofia Kenin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
E. SVITOLINA/S. Kenin   
7-5, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  After warming up and practicing all week long, how did it feel to take the court for the first time at the WTA Finals?  
SOFIA KENIN: Yeah, it was really exciting. I was obviously looking forward to it. It's a different experience. Yeah, I'm just really happy I was able to play and experience it. Hopefully for next year I can come back here.   
 Q.  What was your perception of being part of this event? Until you played today, the first time ever there was going to be no American in either the singles or doubles.  
SOFIA KENIN: Yeah, it was really exciting honestly. Obviously unfortunate. Not the way I wanted to play. I wish Bianca a speedy recovery.   
Yeah, I was excited. Wanted to just do my best. Yeah, it was an amazing experience. I'm really happy to have experienced it.   
Like I said, hopefully for next year I can actually not be an alternate, yeah, and just play here.   
 Q.  You must be pretty pleased with your progression this year. I think you were 49 or something coming in. Now you're 12. Talk about your season.  
SOFIA KENIN: Yeah, I think I'm having a good season. I'm playing well. It's been kind of stable. Yeah, I'm proud of myself. I feel like I've had a lot of matches. Yeah, I'm playing with confidence. I'm playing the best players in the world, big stages, best tournaments. I mean, things are good. I'm 12, which is really great.   
I mean, I think it's a good accomplishment, of course. I have higher standards for next year, so...   
 Q.  Can you talk through the match today. Not the way you wanted it to end, but tight all the way through.  
SOFIA KENIN: Yeah, I mean, me and Elina played a few times this year, five times. With her, I know it's going to be a grind, a battle. Our matches have always been very close. Yeah, she played well at the right moments. I feel a few points here and there I could have done something differently.   
I mean, she's a great player. She's having tremendous success. I wish her all the best of luck here. Yeah, there's a reason why she is where she is, yeah.   
 Q.  Now that you're into your off-season, have you thought ahead of what your plans are?  
SOFIA KENIN: I mean, plans? Yeah, of course. Fitness, a lot of fitness, get ready for next year. But, yeah, I don't even know when I'm going home. I mean, I have to take a week off or something. I'm not going to rush to go back on the court. Last match of the year. I guess I'm done with tennis for this year.   
 Q.  Your birthday is coming up.  
SOFIA KENIN: It's in two weeks, November 14th. It will be nice. I'm looking forward to it.   
 Q.  In the semifinals of Guangzhou, someone asked you about your goal at the end of this year to go to Zhuhai. You also had a good chance to Shenzhen. Do you remember this question? Now you are here in Shenzhen, what is your first experience like in Shenzhen?  
SOFIA KENIN: Yeah, I remember the question. I was trying to get ready for Zhuhai. I mean, of course when I found out I'm going to be an alternate here, it was interesting. I knew I could have a potential chance of playing.   
Yeah, I wanted to come, to experience it. Everything has been really well done. The hotel, the site, everything is special. They treat you really well. Hopefully I can come back here next year.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT