HENGQIN LIFE WTA ELITE TROPHY ZHUHAI
October 21, 2019
Sofia Kenin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  Good to see you. Welcome to Zhuhai. How happy are you to be here and how much of this was a goal at the start of the season to be at a tournament like this?  
SOFIA KENIN: Yeah, I'm really happy, I'm really happy to be here. I played really well and, yeah, it's really exciting. This is a great experience, playing with the best and this is obviously a really tough tournament and, yeah, I mean the draw's out and you don't even know who you want to play because it's just, everyone's like playing really well and everyone deserves their place here. So I think it's going to be a great matchup and a really good event.   
 Q.  You played so much tennis this year and you won so many matches. Physically, how are you feeling heading into the last week for you?  
SOFIA KENIN: Tired, obviously tired, but I'm hanging in there, I'm doing well. I'm feeling confident, having a lot of matches, so it's obviously helped. So hopefully I can just bring that out when I play.   
 Q.  How was the food last night?  
SOFIA KENIN: Oh, my God, it was so good. That pork is amazing. Sorry, not to deviate, but, okay.   
 Q.  As you reflect on the last 12 months, like 12 months ago you were probably getting ready for FedExCup and it was an incredible Fed Cup final for you in terms of the performances you put together. But as you reflect on it all, what are you proudest of in terms of making this breakthrough, having this incredible season? You've had a lot of highs, what stands out to you when you look back on the scrapbook of 2019?  
SOFIA KENIN: Honestly, just sustained level. It's really easy to drop, but I feel like I'm maybe not going from zero to a hundred, but I'm going there and I'm improving and, yeah, I'm playing well, I'm having a lot of matches. I love the big stages, I'm playing really well and I'm really comfortable with everyone here. Everyone knows me and it's a bit different. At the beginning no one really knew me, so obviously it was hard to practice with the girls. And now everyone's like, Do you want to practice? And I'm like, heck yeah. So, it's good, yeah.   
 Q.  The China swing is pretty long from Zhengzhou to Shenzhen so what did you do in the past two weeks after Beijing? What did you do to prepare for this event?  
SOFIA KENIN: Well, I actually had like a week and probably -- I only played for four days because with the time zone it's very different, but, yeah, I mean I tried to do the best I could, four days of practice, tried to prepare myself, do some fitness, just somehow keep me alive, you know.   
But, yeah, I mean then came back here -- and I love this tournament, it's done really nice and it just makes it easy to adjust here and, yeah, it's very good.   
 Q.  You got to meet Kim Clijsters when you were very young and I'm wondering of what you thought about her comeback announcement and what it might be like for you to maybe play her next year?  
SOFIA KENIN: Right, yeah, I remember the day, she was so nice. And I actually I did an exhibition with her and, where was it? In New York, but I forgot where it was. But it was nice and, yeah, I think it's great if she's going to have a comeback, I think it's really great and it inspires people to keep playing and she's had so much success. Of course everyone is saying I would love for you to play her in the first match and, maybe not first round, but, yeah, because everyone like posted a picture of me doing her hand and they're like, oh, that's a matchup that we should see in two Grand Slams. And I'm like, No, I don't think in Grand Slams first match. She's a Grand Slam champion, Grand Slam champions, so it's not going to be a good match.   
But, I mean, if I play her, okay, it will be an exciting match though and I'm obviously going to look forward to it.   
 Q.  You were talking about a trip to Tiffany's at the Open, I'm curious if you made it in between.  
SOFIA KENIN: I made it.   
 Q.  What did you get?  
SOFIA KENIN: I got the Tiffany T bracelet. The thick one, not the thin one. So, yeah, I'm very precise on that, so, yes. My birthday is coming up November 14th, so I'm planning something, you know, hopefully get some Cartier and stuff.   
 Q.  You're only 20 years old, obviously in the past you have collected championships, which is different life than for other teenagers. And this is a success, but is there any difficulties and challenges you faced along the way as the professional tennis player at such a young age?  
SOFIA KENIN: I guess just traveling, it's a lot. The matches and playing. Obviously there's a lot of positives to it and, yeah, you're staying in the best places in the world, best hotels, and traveling around the world, seeing new places, and get to experience different cultures, which is really good. Yeah, I mean, I guess you don't really have time to go to the malls, what my friends do, everyone's like going to the malls like every day and shopping. And they're like, Do you want to come? I'm like, No, I have practice or fitness.   
So I guess that takes, that's a little bit different, but free time, I guess we try weekends to see some friends whenever I'm home. Last time I was -- yeah, I haven't been home for like 10 months going on the road, so that's the toughest part.   
 Q.  You won your third title in Guangzhou and you played some great matches in Wuhan and Beijing. Could you tell us more about why you are doing so well in China and your special affection with the Chinese tournaments.  
SOFIA KENIN: I guess I feel comfortable, the fans support me and they make me play, they make me play better, so it helps me. Yeah, I mean, I just try to take every match one match at a time and it just happens that I'm doing really good in China, so hopefully I can keep that up here and, yeah, and for obviously many more years to come.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT