AUSTRALIAN OPEN
February 9, 2021
Sofia Kenin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  S. KENIN/M. Inglis
 7-5, 6-4
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. How did it feel playing on Rod Laver Arena again after last year?
 SOFIA KENIN:   Yeah, felt really good.  Obviously some nerves coming in.  Obviously I'm sure everyone saw that.  But, yeah, it's obviously nice to get the win.  I obviously love the court, have great memories.
 It was a little bit emotional.  Tried to handle my emotions.
 Q. In the first set, did you feel like you were feeling the ball well?  You looked a little bit annoyed with yourself.
 SOFIA KENIN:   Yeah, I was obviously quite annoyed the whole match.  I felt like the first two points I started off well, then wasn't able to close out the first game.  Obviously nerves happen.
 She obviously played really well.  She's a tricky opponent, tricky player.  Yeah, it was quite hard on myself today, quite annoyed, as you said.
 Q. Looked like you rolled your left ankle.
 SOFIA KENIN:   I remember, yeah.  I remember.  I was playing.  Usually that happens when I'm not playing well or not in the zone or anything.  I was, like, there.  All of a sudden I was like, Oh, my God, am I going to be injured?  Then luckily it was fine.
 Q. No problem?
 SOFIA KENIN:   No, no, thank God.
 Q. Talk a little bit more about the nerves.  Did you feel a lot more pressure coming into the match?  How were you feeling about the match?
 SOFIA KENIN:   Yeah, emotions, some tears and stuff.  I felt a little bit pressure.  She obviously came out swinging.  I knew she was going to play well.  I knew the crowd was going to be more or less behind her.  I'm happy I had some crowd behind me.
 Yeah, obviously I was nervous.  Obviously first match at a slam is never easy.  Obviously when she was playing, she's playing the defending champion, so of course she's more loose.  I obviously am tight.  I wasn't there 100% mentally.
 But a win is a win and I'll take it.
 Q. On the nerves thing, I'm wondering how often that happens for you.  Is it every match?  Is it certain matches at certain places?  How does it manifest itself for you when you're on the court?
 SOFIA KENIN:   I obviously get nervous before every match.  I guess here is a little bit more since I guess obviously from last year, memories and everything.  I have to try to put my emotions aside for, like, a match.
 But, yeah, I mean, as the match starts, I let it out before the match, then as the match starts, it's more or less fine.  I don't feel as nervous, like, going to the match.  Yeah, I mean, I have to somehow get better at that if I want to do well here (smiling).
 Q. As you feel that, you don't want it to hurt the way you're playing, how do you try to get past those feelings?
 SOFIA KENIN:   I mean, I try to at least have a rhythm, try to feel my shots.  Obviously I did play some good points today.  It obviously was good.
 Yeah, I mean, just trying to get a groove, trying to feel the ball.  Obviously as the result is going my way, it's a little bit easier for me to handle my nerves.
 Q. What are your thoughts on your next opponent?  Kaia Kanepi, who you faced in 2018 in Rome?
 SOFIA KENIN:   Thank you for reminding me I lost.  I'm kidding (laughter).
 I remember.  After my match, I came off court, and I looked that she was winning.  Maybe kind of broke down a little bit because obviously I remember I lost to her.  I'm obviously going to try to just prepare and do everything I can to win.
 She's obviously a tough player and she's playing big.  We'll see how it's going to go.
 Q. Obviously you've played big matches in your career, matches where you're going to be nervous.  How did today compare to playing the AO final, Roland Garros final, Fed Cup?
 SOFIA KENIN:   I mean, I think it was a bit more honestly because last year, like I said, I have great memories.  Obviously being on the court, obviously imagining everything, where everything was, I try to, like, put that aside.
 Maybe there were some tears.  Eyes were a little bit wet during the match.  I try to cool off, put that aside.  Yeah, obviously it's emotional.  As I said I have to handle my emotions, let off some steam before the match.  As the match went, luckily it was fine.
 Towards the end, you could see I got a little bit emotional as well.  Standing at the net, Okay, don't cry.  My eyes were wet obviously.
 Q. Do you think you're going to have to play through this for at best seven matches or do you think it's going to dissipate?  Are things going to feel normal for you at some point?  First match for a defending champion is going to be tricky.  Do you have tricks to attempt to make this as normal a tournament as you can?
 SOFIA KENIN:   I mean, I'm going to try.  Obviously I don't have any tricks because this is my first time experiencing this.  Of course, first match as the defending champion is a little bit hard and tricky for me.
 I hope, obviously, that my emotions will somehow come down hopefully as the matches go.  We'll see.  I cannot promise anything.
 Q. On playing Kaia, from a tennis perspective, can you talk about the challenge of playing her.  She hits big.  How do you defuse power?
 SOFIA KENIN:   I mean, I love power.  Yeah, I mean, just try to play my game, handle the pace.  Last time I played her, I was just fine.  She obviously did some stuff, which I'm not going to say.
 Yeah, I mean, I just have to play my game.  I really hope it's going to be good enough to win.
 Q. What are your thoughts on the absence of lines-persons?  Is that something you'd like to see at other places?
 SOFIA KENIN:   I mean, I'm fine with it either way.  I guess I'm, like, obviously used to the lines-people there.  I'm obviously used to challenging.  It's a little bit different for me.  But I'm fine with the Hawk-Eye.  I mean, it makes no difference for me.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT