ROLAND GARROS
June 3, 2019
Sofia Kenin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. BARTY/S. Kenin   
6-3, 3-6, 6-0   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Tough day today, but congratulations on a great run.  
SOFIA KENIN: Thank you.   
 Q.  Kind of a tough question, but if you had to put into one word, one phrase here, your trip to Paris this year, what would it be?  
SOFIA KENIN: Explendid?  Explendid?  Yeah, it was a tough match.  But everything, I'm going to take positive from this week.   
 Q.  A big match after a titanic match.  How difficult and challenging was it to get yourself ready emotionally for this match today?  
SOFIA KENIN: Yeah, it was a great match, and I just tried to, not, like focus on it as much, and it's obviously not easy.  I need to get more experience and everything.  But I think it was kind of like a slow start, but I managed to get myself into the match.   
Yeah, just unfortunate, just things didn't go the way I wanted to go in the third set.   
 Q.  What do you think changed in the third set after how well you finished the second?  
SOFIA KENIN: I just -- I don't know.  I just felt like my serve kind of let me down, for sure.  Just some unforced errors, because the games were close, like, every game was close.  And I had a few chances, you know, could have went.   
But, yeah, she's a tough player, she's a great player.  She's had a great year and is playing well.  So there is a reason why she's ranked very high.  Yeah, just -- I mean, she just played well.   
 Q.  Being in the second week of a Grand Slam for the first time, does it make you hungrier?  What has it been like getting a taste of these sort of stages?  
SOFIA KENIN: It's great, you know.  I definitely can feel being in a second week here everything is more quiet and everything.  But, yeah, I'm really happy.  Yeah, I'm just going to take all the positive things and carry it on for the grass season.   
 Q.  How would you describe the challenges or difficulty of trying to follow up that big moment from the other day when you beat Williams to going back out there today?  
SOFIA KENIN: Yeah, I mean, I think it's obviously challenging.  You know, you've got to get your emotions settled in.  Yeah, I think it was just like a slow start, but I'm just -- I just tried to keep it going, try and do my best, get my rhythm back.   
Yeah, I mean, I knew she's a tough player.  Yes, I beat Serena, which was really good, but I knew that she's very tough and she's playing really well.   
 Q.  Just to follow up on that, what is it about Barty's game that makes things difficult?  
SOFIA KENIN: I mean, her serve is really good.  I mean, she does everything well.  She moves really well.  Her slices, you know, there's not many girls on tour with a really good slice.   
Yeah, she has, like, the best slice.  She has good hands, dropshots.  Yeah, I mean, she's a great player.   
 Q.  You have been in the limelight in one way or another for a long, long time now.  At 20, where are you on your learning curve?  Like, how far along are you?  Are you where you thought you would be?  Or does being on this stage teach you that, man, I still have a ways to go?  
SOFIA KENIN: Yeah, of course there is obviously a lot of improvements I can do.  And young, like you said, I'm 20.  Playing at the big stages, I think it's great.  It's a great opportunity for me.   
Just getting my name out there, you know, I think it's great.  I still have a lot to improve, and, I mean, it's not done.  I'm going to keep improving and hopefully just get better and better.   
 Q.  You mentioned how good her slice is.  How tough is it to get rhythm when the two shots off each wing are so different from each other for most of the time?  
SOFIA KENIN: Yeah, she has really good hands.  She can either slice crosscourt or shorter or just go down the line.  It's really effective, especially on clay.   
Yeah, not many girls do that.  It's hard to get rhythm.  She's doing well with that, I mean, she's just really tough to play, yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT