ROLAND GARROS
June 1, 2019
Sofia Kenin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. KENIN/S. Williams   
6-2, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Just talk about what that means to you after all you have been through in your life, and probably a lot of things coming through your mind at the end of that match, I'm sure.  
SOFIA KENIN: Yeah, it was so much emotions.  Serena is such a tough player.  Yeah, I'm still trying to process what just happened.  I knew before the match, I was ready to go.  I was there to win a match.  Of course she's a true champion and an inspiration and she's done amazing things for American tennis.   
Yeah, I'm just really happy with this win.  I played really well, and I'm just excited for my next match.   
 Q.  Congratulations.  You told me yesterday that you needed to control your emotion on court.  There were a few moments where you got pretty frustrated.  
SOFIA KENIN: Yes, I think anyone is going to get frustrated during that moment.  Yeah, I think I did a really good job handling my emotions because it's not easy.   
And closing out the match, you know, you get a lot of things processed in my head.  Yeah, I just had to somehow just try to put them aside and close out the match.   
And, yeah, I mean, if I would have lost, it would have been pretty heartbreaking.  I did everything I can to win, and I'm just really proud of myself.   
 Q.  Was there a moment when you sensed that Serena's movement was not that great?  You were trying to move her around right from the beginning with your dropshots and that, but did you sense that she wasn't moving?  
SOFIA KENIN: Yeah, like you said, when you play Serena, you've got to control all the points, you've got to dictate because she's gonna take control of the points.  She's the best of the best, so I knew I'm playing with a top player and I have to play my game.   
I think she moved well.  Honestly, she got a lot of balls back.  Yeah, I mean, I just played really well.  I'm just really happy.   
 Q.  As you said, Serena is the top player, and you also had to play kind of against the crowd.  They were quite harsh at times.  
SOFIA KENIN: Yes, they were.  I mean, I was just looking at the mark.  Like, I wasn't saying "out."  I just looked at the mark, just to see, was it out?   
But they're on my side now, so it's fine.  I got them on the good side.   
 Q.  Was that the first time you dealt with a crowd?  
SOFIA KENIN: Yeah, first time.  I knew I obviously wasn't the favorite.  I had my dad, my team, everyone there supporting me, and, you know, that's all I needed to win, and just happy to share this moment with them.   
 Q.  There was that stretch in the second set where you could just feel the Serena adrenaline sort of surging and the death stare, as it's referred to by reporters.  What did that feel like from across the net?  
SOFIA KENIN: I mean, yeah, I definitely knew after the first set, you know, she's Serena for a reason and she's gonna come up with some amazing shots.  Yeah, I mean, I actually did feel like, okay, Serena is getting there, she's on a roll, and I knew I had to somehow stop it.   
Yeah, I did feel some stares there, but I tried not to overthink it and do what I needed to do and do what I do best.   
 Q.  That's an incredible win.  
SOFIA KENIN: Thank you.   
 Q.  Have you ever been on the same court with Serena?  Where does this confidence come from?  Because it was just amazing, fantastic to see, confidence in the first set, and in the second set when she was so close, Barty last year couldn't do it after winning the first set.  
SOFIA KENIN: I actually did not know Barty played her.  Okay.   
Yeah, I mean, I have a lot of confidence.  I'm playing with belief, which is really good.  Yeah, I've never practiced with her.  I texted Patrick during preseason.  Serena wanted to hit.   
I was so happy when he answered me.  I was, like, Oh, my God, Patrick texted me.  And he said, like, She said and we'll keep in touch.   
Yeah, I tried to hit with her.  It wasn't possible, but I'll take that.  I'll take the win over the hitting.  Saying it nicely.   
 Q.  Where does this win rank in terms of importance for you?  Is it No. 1 on the list?  And how high would you rate your quality of play today?  Do you think you could play better than that or is that one of the best matches you have ever played?  
SOFIA KENIN: Yeah, I think this is such a great win for me.  I mean, as you can see after the match -- I don't normally cry after a match.  I had so many emotions playing on Chatrier.  I have always imagined playing there and winning a match.  I went there today with the mentality to go and win.   
And what was the second part you asked?  I'm sorry, I'm, like, so tired.   
 Q.  How do you rate the quality of your performance, level of play?  Is it as good as it has ever been?  
SOFIA KENIN: Yes, my quality was really good.  I think I gave it everything.  You know, I knew I had to go out there and, you know, leave everything on the court, so whatever happens, you know, I can say, Yes, I left it all on the court.   
I have had a few big matches, as well, where unfortunately it didn't go my way.  Yeah, you can just see that it just means a lot to me.   
 Q.  A couple of things.  At the end of the first set, you thought you had it won.  Didn't win it.  
SOFIA KENIN: Oh, my God, yes.  Because the ball hit the line.  I was, like, Wait.   
Then she's, like, No, it was out.  I'm, like, Okay.   
Then, yeah, it was ad out, and luckily I was able to survive.   
 Q.  How tough was it to regather yourself there and focus on winning that set after that situation, having already double-pumped it once?  
SOFIA KENIN: Yeah, I gave such a good, Come on.  I was, like, What the hell?   
Yeah, I mean, normally, you know, it can throw you off.  You have the set and it just didn't go your way.   
Honestly, I think I did really good handling my emotions and containing myself at tough moments even when the crowd was booing me for, I don't know, whatever reason, but just able to handle it well and I'm just really proud of myself.   
 Q.  Did you at any point stop questioning marks because you felt like, If I do it again I'm going to get booed, I don't want to get into this mess now?  
SOFIA KENIN: No, I didn't care at that point.  I was, like, I'm going to check the mark.  I thought it was out.  I wasn't trying to do anything.   
But, yeah, I didn't really care.  I knew I just had to show the crowd, like, Listen, Sonya Kenin is in the house.  Yes.   
 Q.  Out on the court, you have such an intent, such a focus or will.  Could you talk about that?  And also, you know, you have been doing so well, Hobart, Fed Cup, going forward.  In your own mind, do you think you can go to the very, very top of this game?  
SOFIA KENIN: Yeah, I believe in myself, and as you said, you know, I have had a good year, I'm playing well.  Of course I have even more confidence than ever right now.  It's really good.   
Yeah, I mean, I have always had the belief.  That's who I am.  I'm going to go out there and I'm going to fight.  I like to get the crowd going.  I like to pump myself up.   
Yeah, just really happy.  I looked at the box today, and everyone was standing on their feet today.  I was, like, Come on.  I had the crowd going.  Let's go.   
 Q.  You're so giddy now.  You have Ash Barty next, another quite tricky player.  What's going to be your process now?  You'll have to come down from cloud 9 a little bit.  
SOFIA KENIN: Yeah, I mean, I have played her twice.  She's a tough player, she's very crafty.  It's not going to be an easy match.  I'm just going to go out there and leave everything out, play my best game, and I think if I play well, good things can happen, and I believe in myself.   
 Q.  Do you always talk this fast?  
SOFIA KENIN: No, I'm just -- my adrenaline is high.  I drank Gel.  I'm trying to improve on that.   
 Q.  It says in the guidebook that you were born in Moscow, and full credit to America for bringing such a great player.  But humbly asking you, will you ever come, are you considering coming maybe sometime to Russia or do you speak any Russian or whatever?  
SOFIA KENIN: Yes, I speak fluently Russian.  I'm proud to be an American.  I think it's great that, you know, we moved to America for a better life for me, and, yeah, I'm a proud American.   
 Q.  Coming to Russia maybe we have...  
SOFIA KENIN: Yes, Russia, there is no way, I don't think I will be able to, because I don't have a passport or visa because I had to give that up since I'm American.   
 Q.  Was there ever a moment when you walked on the court today -- I know you played at the US Open against Maria -- but was there a moment when you looked around and looked at the stands and where you were and went "Wow" at any time?  Was there a "Wow" moment?  
SOFIA KENIN: I think there was a "Wow" moment when I went on the court against Serena.  I love the crowd.  I love playing in big stages.   
And, yeah, it just gets me going.  I want to play well.  And, yeah, I just feel like I'm playing really good on big stages.   
 Q.  You said that you turned the crowd around in the end.  What do you want the crowd to remember from seeing Sofia Kenin in the house?  
SOFIA KENIN: That I'm a fighter and that I just beat Serena Williams.  So of course they're going to remember that.  I'll remember that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT