ROLAND GARROS
October 7, 2020
Sofia Kenin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. KENIN/D. Collins
6-4, 4-6, 6-0
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
Q. Interested by what you said on court about the pleasure of winning in three sets.  I mean, obviously everybody likes winning, but is there an extra pleasure of winning in three?  If so, what is that pleasure?
SOFIA KENIN:   I mean, I kind of meant it as sarcasm because every match has been in three sets for me except my third match against Bara.
Yeah, I know my opponents are playing well.  Obviously I'm not expecting it to be easy, but it's always nice to get the win at the end.
So, yeah, I meant that as sarcasm that I just love playing in three sets and winning in three sets (smiling).
Q. I think you have extended your record now 8-1 in Grand Slam play against fellow Americans.  What makes you play so much better when you're up against one of your countrywomen in Grand Slams particularly?
SOFIA KENIN:   I mean, I know her game really well.  I have played her a few times.
Yeah, it's not easy playing a fellow American.  I obviously want all of us to do well.  Obviously I knew it was going to be one American in the semifinals.  And I mean, I think it's really great for American tennis to have a good quarterfinals matchup.
Yeah, I just knew her game, I knew what I needed to do.  Yeah, I'm just really happy.  It's an honor, I mean, to be in the semifinals, and I'm super happy that I won.
Q. The three sets, you don't enjoy playing three sets but each time you have played them they have gotten a little bit easier.  Is there anything you're learning from these longer matches that have made you more efficient coming into this most recent three-setter?
SOFIA KENIN:   Yeah, I mean, I'm happy I'm getting the wins, so I will take any score, any drama if I have to to win.
Yeah, I just feel like in the third set I've gotten better, starting off strong, not making too many errors, just playing aggressive, and trying to dictate.  I feel like I've really improved on that, because usually I kind of start off a little bit slow or just start making some easy mistakes and the points go fast.
So I feel like I'm doing a really good job with keeping my ground and staying focused, yeah, starting off strong in the third set, because obviously I don't want to go too down.  I want to start off with the lead, and luckily I'm getting a good lead in the third set.
Q. How much of that match was a battle of tennis skills and how much do you think was a battle of wills to win between both of you?
SOFIA KENIN:   I think it's both.  Yeah, we both know each other really well.  We both know each other's games.  It's a little bit of both.  We obviously want to win.  We are both really feisty, we're really competitive, we fight for every point.  Yeah, it's just a little bit of both.
Q. If you could step back and just look at our sport in general, if you had to put it into one word or phrase, what is it that you love the most about the sport of tennis?
SOFIA KENIN:   Winning, definitely.  That's my answer.  I mean, there are so many other words I can think of, but, yeah, winning is definitely the one.  It's something that I really love, and I love winning more than anything, so, yeah, winning.
Q. I'm fascinated by that thing you do with your serve where you don't sync your eyes with the ball.  I'm curious if you could explain exactly how you do that and when that started?
SOFIA KENIN:   Yeah, I don't really know much, how it all started, it just kind of started.  Yeah, I have done that, you know, my whole career.
I guess it's a little bit different, but I won a slam with it, I've done well, I'm doing well, so I'm not really going to change it.  So I'm just going to keep it like that.
Q. Could you please tell us what are your thoughts about seeing a player out of quallies in the semis, potentially in the finals on Saturday and potentially -- you're not going to like this -- but potentially lifting the trophy on Saturday.  What are your thoughts about seeing a qualifier so deep into a Grand Slam draw?
SOFIA KENIN:   Yeah, I think it's really great.  I feel like she's playing really well.  She's a great player, she's having a lot of confidence.
I think it's really great for her.  So, yeah, I mean, I think it's awesome.  So I wish when I was playing in the qualifying of a slam I'd be getting to the semifinals.
Yeah, I mean, she's having a really good run, a really great groove, and I wish her the best of luck.
Q. You'll be playing somebody of course who was told in 2017 after she was attacked at home she might never play tennis at this level again.  I'm sure you won't be thinking about that when you play her, but does that story inspire you in any way?  She's also not lost any sets at all.  You're all super fit.  Is that likely to be any factor at all in the semifinal or not really?
SOFIA KENIN:   Yeah, like you said, I'm not really going to think about the fact she couldn't obviously play.  I'm really happy that she's healthy and she's playing some really great tennis.
Yeah, it's not going to be an easy matchup.  Yeah, she's had two sets, but we'll see what's going to happen tomorrow.
I feel like I'm playing a lot, I'm playing a good amount of matches, I'm obviously loving the clay.  I'm just going to do everything I can to take to my advantage.
Q. You lost four sets but lost only 44 games, which are only 10 more of Kvitova, who has never lost a set.  So at the end when you are playing the third set, you're winning easily.  I mean, 6-Love today, 6-1 against Ferro, 6-2 versus Bogdan.  How do you explain it?  Is it because you're stronger physically or mentally or the other ones are not as you are?
SOFIA KENIN:   I definitely would say physically and mentally.  Yeah, I mean, obviously in the third set we're both obviously trying to win, we obviously want to play well.  But I feel like I'm starting off strong, I'm not letting my ground -- I'm putting a lot of pressure, of course I feel like I'm playing better and they can't really do much once I'm playing well.
Yeah, I definitely don't think they are not playing well; I feel like they are.  I just pick up my game and that's what's been working for me.
Q. Are you any different playing-wise since Australia?  Can you compare the run at the Australian Open compared to what you have achieved so far at the French Open?
SOFIA KENIN:   I mean, I don't know.  I guess you could say like I have improved.  I definitely feel like I have improved since Australia.
But about the same.  I feel like I'm having a lot of matches and finding my groove.  I'm enjoying, like I love playing on the clay.  I feel like I'm having a lot of confidence, I'm playing some really good tennis.
In terms of that, I feel like it's how it is for Australia and this isn't something new.  I've obviously been here, obviously in Melbourne, but yeah, I feel like I'm just playing with a lot of confidence, I've had some good tournaments before Paris.  I feel like Australia definitely really gave me a big boost.  I definitely feel comfortable with the slams, I feel like I can get deep.
So yeah, I feel like that really helped me, for sure.
Q. In past years I imagine you probably would have taken a trip down the Champs-Elysees already.  Do you have any fond memories of past shopping trips in Paris?  Have you formulated a plan of attack if you plan to do it at some point after the tournament?
SOFIA KENIN:   Yeah, it's really unfortunate I can't go to Champs-Elysees because I definitely would have gotten something if I could, but I have to be in the bubble.  Definitely after the tournament I'm definitely going to get something for myself, yeah, just to reward me.
Q. You spoke about your favorite thing is winning.  When you do get a great win, can you describe that feeling, self-satisfaction?  What is it like for you to experience that?
SOFIA KENIN:   I mean, it's great.  I love the feeling.  You just feel like you really did something good.  I just feel confidence.  I feel like I'm playing some really good tennis.
So of course there is a lot of emotions.  When I win I definitely feel a lot of emotions.  It's something that I really enjoy.  And, yeah, it's like a feeling that you just never want to, like, you always want to have that feeling when you play.
Q. We often ask players about potential injuries, and I just wanted to ask you after the match how your eardrums are and when you've got someone like Danielle on the other side of the court shouting, Come on, at the top of their voice, do you ever think to yourself, Wow, that was really loud or do you zone it out and concentrate on your own game?
SOFIA KENIN:   Yeah, I definitely try to feel like being in my own world when I'm playing, try not to focus on what's going on around me.  I just try to focus on myself and just block everything out.
Q. What is going to be the most important factor when you go in and play the semifinal against Petra?
SOFIA KENIN:   Definitely nerves.  That's going to be a major key.  But I feel like I'm going to try to do the best I can to handle myself.  And of course she's like really, you know, tall, powerful, she has a big serve, big shots.
I'm just going to have to figure out a way to balance my game out.  Obviously I'm not going to overpower her since I'm not going to be able to.  But I've got different things I can throw in to mix things up.
Yeah, we'll see how it's going to go, but I'm super excited to be in the semifinals and to play her.  I'm just super excited.
Q. My daughter is 28 years old.  Loves me.  She would like to have me around.  But not always.  I'd like to know if in the bubble where you are supposed to stay with your father morning, afternoon, tennis court, outside, if sometimes you would like to have some distance from him?  Or you don't feel any necessity of doing so?  You're a young kid.  Normally it's like that.
SOFIA KENIN:   No, we make it work.  I'm happy to have him by my side.  Yeah, I'm not thinking about distance or anything.  I enjoy having him around.  So, yeah.
Q. You talked about nerves.  Everybody deals with nerves in different ways.  How do they manifest themselves with you?  Do you have trouble eating, trouble sleeping?  Is it not as bad as that?
SOFIA KENIN:   No, thank God I'm sleeping well.  Everything is fine.  Just nerves coming into the court.  Of course I have like butterflies, really want to do well.  Deep in a tournament, of course everyone wants to do well.  Yeah, I just try to somehow calm the best I can.
You know, I feel like once I start playing I obviously forget everything and just focus on every point.
Q. A little over two years ago I had the pleasure of seeing you win a smaller tournament over Nicole Gibbs at Berkeley.
SOFIA KENIN:   Yeah, I remember.
Q. It was a special moment at the time, but just a couple hundred people there.  Now your whole career has blossomed and you have become a slam champion and threatening for another one.  How do you think your game has evolved?  Could you have imagined this uptick, this rise in your game from that moment?
SOFIA KENIN:   Yeah, of course, like you said, that moment was really special.  It was Berkeley, 60,000.  Going back down to memory lane, yeah, I was super happy.  Of course I could not imagine that I would be here at that point.
So I feel like I'm just really thankful, you know, with the fact that I'm playing well, I'm having some great tournament runs, and I feel like I have really adjusted to the pro level.
You know, I love the big stages.  I have really grown as a person since that time I played against Nicole.  I feel like those matches really helped me leading up to where I am right now, playing in front of crowds, under pressure, experiencing different things.
Yeah, I'm just really grateful to where I am right now.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT