AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: BLUE JAYS VS ROYALS
October 21, 2015
Dioner Navarro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I guess I'll ask the same thing I asked your manager, do you feel the fact that you've done this before, that you won three in a row to conclude a series and win it, gives you more hope than you might have in a situation like this?  
DIONER NAVARRO: I think everything we have accomplished throughout the whole season, I believe we had two 11-game winning streak, and obviously during the Postseason is different, it is a bigger picture.   
But, yes, I guess.  We've got to do it.  If we don't do it, we go home, and that's the bottom line.   
 Q.  Marco said yesterday in his last start he had a hard time locating his fastball down and away.  Did you catch the bullpen and how did he look in that session?  
DIONER NAVARRO: I did not catch that.  He's just done a great job throughout the whole season.  And today won't be no different.  I think having faith the first time over in Kansas City kind of going to help us out and made the adjustment and do what you've got to do.   
 Q.  Escobar is going to swing at that first pitch.  Are you going to throw nothing close to the plate?  
DIONER NAVARRO: Hopefully we bounce it or throw it behind his back or something, so he can make contact (laughter).   
 Q.  What do you think is behind the chemistry you developed with Marco this year, a guy who comes from outside the organization and essentially you become his guy?  
DIONER NAVARRO: I don't know, I just think being around the Big Leagues for a little bit kind of helped me out.  One of the things I try to do when I get to a new team or new teammates, especially as a pitcher, get to know them, try to let them rely on me, and kind of let them put that trust on me, on what I'm capable of.   
I think the first two starts wasn't as good as we expected.  But we kind of got together and we talk and we develop a great relationship.  And I just try to do that with all my guys, honestly.   
 Q.  What are some of the things you think that Marco has to do today to get through this lineup?  
DIONER NAVARRO: I think he's just got to get ahead.  They're going to put the ball in play.  They don't strike out much.  They're got to make things happen.  So I think if he gets ahead and work ahead on the count he's going to not make it easier, but is going to give us a better shot of finishing hitters off.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT