NASCAR SPRINT CUP SERIES: CHEEZ-IT 355 AT THE GLEN
August 10, 2014
Greg Zipadelli
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MODERATOR:   Good morning, I'm Mike Arning with True Speed Communications.   I also serve as Director of Communication for Stewart‑Haas Racing.   Up on the dais is Greg Zipadelli, Vice President of Competition for Stewart‑Haas Racing.   Greg has some updates regarding the 14 car today at Watkins Glen.   And, Greg, just go ahead and talk about some of the things that we have decided for today regarding the 14 car.  
GREG ZIPADELLI:   Yeah, we know that it's just an unbelievable tragedy.   Our hearts go out to, obviously, Kevin and his family, thoughts and prayers.   This is a very tough, very emotional time for everybody.   His family, our family at Stewart‑Haas, Tony Stewart, so, with that being said, we feel that as a group Tony will not drive today, Regan Smith is on his way up.   NASCAR has approved for him to get in the race car today.   They're going to do everything they can to help us expedite getting his seat and him comfortable.   So that's kind of what we have been working on this morning and trying to get executed, is get Regan here, and obviously anything we can do for Tony and everybody else is just, like I said, it's an emotional time right now.   
MODERATOR:   We'll open it up for questions.   I will preface it this way:   We're going to talk about the logistics of the Watkins Glen race weekend, out of respect for everyone involved.   We're not going to talk about last night or even our plans beyond today.   So we'll go ahead and start right here with Jim, if you can.   State your name and affiliation please.   
   
 Q.   Greg, was this a SHR team decision or was this Tony's decision?   
GREG ZIPADELLI:   Yeah, I mean, obviously, we talked last night and then realizing, going through the night, gave Tony some time to sleep on it, and met with him this morning and he feels strongly this is the right thing to do.   
We at SHR support it and agree with it.   It's a difficult time for both parties.   There's not a lot you can do.   The only thing we can do is do what we feel is right and this is it.   This is what we feel is right and are supporting Tony in it.  
   
 Q.   It might be crass to bring this up, but the championship situation, Tony's a five‑time champion here, it was a great chance for him to make the Chase, was there any discussion with NASCAR to make any kind of exception for Tony going forward?   
GREG ZIPADELLI:   No, honestly, that is the furthest thing from our minds right now.   The wellbeing of Kevin's family and Tony and the people at our company.   
That's something that, when we get home on Monday, we'll have to look at and evaluate and go through that and make decisions.   
Today is all about doing what we can today to get through today and do it the best we can as a group and try to do it in the right way.   So we haven't even crossed that bridge yet.   
   
 Q.   Obviously, there was a change in the decision, so I'm wondering, as an official or even as a friend, did you offer any counsel in helping Tony make his decision?   
GREG ZIPADELLI:   Yeah, there was a few of us that were in there just supporting him.   He's a brother to me.   He's way more than a boss.   He's going through a tough time, it's emotional for him.   So we're, like I said, we as a group support him, feel like he's doing the right thing and we'll move on from this.   
   
 Q.   Would you have supported if he had wanted to race?   
GREG ZIPADELLI:   I support Tony Stewart.   I think I've shown that over the last 18 years.   
MODERATOR:   We'll wrap this up.   I know there's a lot of interest in the S‑H team.   They have a lot of work ahead of them.   If you could please be mindful of everything they have on their docket before that car is rolled out on to Pit Lane and also Regan has a lot going on, too, as soon as he arrives, so be respectful of that.   
Me and my staff will be here it assist you guys in any way shape or form that you can.   Thank you for your time.   Appreciate it.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT