AL DIVISION SERIES: MARINERS v WHITE SOX
October 3, 2000
Ray Durham
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  You're out there, you see Lou come out to talk to Cameron.  What were you thinking?

RAY DURHAM: I didn't know.  That was the first time I've ever seen that.  But whatever he told him, evidently it worked. 


Q.  You guys have rallied all year in games.  How about being down one game in the series and rallying to come back.  What is the mindset?

RAY DURHAM: Well, our backs are against the wall right now.  We have to win tomorrow.  We don't want to go in to Seattle down two games.  That's a tough hole to climb out of, so this is a must-win for us tomorrow. 


Q.  Ray, is it hard not to think about the opportunities missed in the middle of the game, especially the time you had the bases loaded?

RAY DURHAM: That's a tough pill to swallow.  With a team like Seattle, you get your opportunities, you take advantage of it.  We didn't and it came back to haunt us in the end. 


Q.  At the time, how much did you think your homer helped swing the momentum to your team?

RAY DURHAM: It was an even swing, I thought.  Our backs weren't really against the wall, but we needed kind of a spark, so to speak.  When I hit the home run, I felt the momentum swing tremendously.  And then they just gradually took it away and eventually stole it from us. 


Q.  You've probably been asked this before, but what's the overall mindset of the team now as you go into a must-win situation tomorrow?

RAY DURHAM: Well, actually, we're relaxed.  We know we have a tough game tomorrow that we must win.  But everybody's calm and we're just going to come out and play and have fun and see what happens. 


Q.  Is that because of the fact that when you guys play well defensively, especially yourself, just being all over the field in this game?

RAY DURHAM: Yes.  We play the game with reckless abandonment.  I think that's why we made so many errors this year, because we go out for everything.  There's balls that we shouldn't get to and wind up getting to them and wind up making an error.  We're a very aggressive defensive team. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT