SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 13, 2011
Maria Hjorth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Can you take me through the day and what was working so well? 
 MARIA HJORTH: Well, everything was really good today. I felt very comfortable. I felt at peace out there and everything went really well. I hit a lot of greens, driving the ball well. I had a few putts.

 Q. Everybody has been talking about what great shape the course is in and how the greens are really receptive this year compared to last year when they played here. Can you talk about the course? 
 MARIA HJORTH: The greens are very grainy, which I think make it's pretty hard, obviously, because you have to kind of take into consideration the grain a little bit, especially when you're chipping and even your approach shots. If you're coming into the grain, the ball's going to sit down and down grain it releases a bit more. 
 So just a few little things that you have to take into consideration. They're fairly slow, but as long as you make sure you're not too scared of hitting it. Yeah, it's in great shape, and it's fun to play.

 Q. It's the first round I know, but being tied for the lead. Is there any good feeling about that? 
 MARIA HJORTH: Yeah, definitely. You can always if you put yourself in a good position. Last week I had a bad first round, and it's just hard to catch up. Obviously for a four-day tournament, it makes it a little easier to catch up, but it's always great to be up there and not too far off. You have a good chance, and you just have to go out there tomorrow and try to dot same thing.

 Q. I talked to a few of the European team members and how much that Solheim Cup kind of boosted everybody. Suzann said she's still feeling the adrenaline off of that. Do you guys carry that into your individual games as well? 
 MARIA HJORTH: Yeah, definitely. I didn't really have the result at Solheim that I would have liked personally, but obviously the team won. If I wouldn't have had the one point that I did, then it would have been not winning. 
 So you just have to look at it that way. Just really feel that I played well, but played a lot of girls from the American teams played really, really well. But, yeah, you build from it. It's just great to have that behind you, and knowing that we were able to beat the Americans. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT