SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 23, 2010
Maria Hjorth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: All right, Maria, thanks for coming in. Nice playing out there. Currently tied for the lead at 6-under par through two rounds. Wasn't sure if we were going to get that full round in there today. How was the delay for you.  
 MARIA HJORTH: Yeah. It's always hard when it's such a long delay as well, especially when the temperature is so warm outside and you kind of sit inside and you get cool, and it's easy to get a little bit stiff and tired when you're sitting in there. So you really have to make sure that when you start again to really be clear and be focused when you get out there.  
 THE MODERATOR: Can you just talk a little bit about the state of your game right now, how you've been playing, how you're feeling?   
 MARIA HJORTH: Actually I'm very happy with my game right now. I've obviously missed the last five or six cuts or whatever it is, but I've actually -- I changed to a short putter.   
 I don't really know why I did, but this week I played really well. I just putted really bad before, so I decided this week to go back to my old putter again, and it's been working really well. So overall I've actually been playing well. I just haven't been scoring good because of my putting.  
 THE MODERATOR: Any questions for Maria?   
  
  Q. Maria, can you just tell us a little bit about your round today?  
 MARIA HJORTH: Yeah. I mean obviously front nine was really good. I had a lot of birdies and a great eagle on No. 6, so that obviously helped. And then I had three bogeys there in a row, which was obviously not very good, but you know, overall I'm very happy with the round.   
 I actually thought someone would kind of shoot away a little bit in the scoring, but I'm happy that they didn't. You know, I'm happy. I'm hitting the ball well and obviously making some really good putts. So I'm looking forward to tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Is the course getting harder by the day?  
 MARIA HJORTH: I think it's -- it's been playing pretty much the same the last two days. The greens are a bit firm, which I like. We've played a lot of soft greens, so to come here and play firmer greens, I really, really enjoy. Obviously some tee shots can be a little bit tight, a little bit intimidating.   
 But I think the course is playing well. I think it sets up good for us. You have some great par-5s, some risk-reward to go for it in two or if you take on the bunkers, try to carry it or if you kind of lay up short of it. So I think the course is playing really well.  
 THE MODERATOR: Can you tell us about your husband is a caddy on the PGA TOUR in the States. You have a daughter. How's family life for you been?   
 MARIA HJORTH: Yeah. It's been really good, actually. Obviously it's the first year this year that he's been out on the PGA TOUR. He's been caddying on the LPGA for 10 years before that. And last year he just traveled with me and my daughter, and this year he had an opportunity to go to the PGA TOUR.   
 So it's obviously been a bit of a change for us not seeing as other as much as we've been used to. But it's worked out really good. He has a great time out there, and he works for a great guy, Bryce Molder, and he really enjoys it.   
 So I'm happy that he enjoys his life, and we make sure that obviously we see each other as much as we can and time our schedules together so that we can all have great family time, too.  
  
  Q. What's the game plan for tomorrow?  
 MARIA HJORTH: You know, you probably have to go -- if I can shoot another three or four under tomorrow and see where that will take me. If it's to the top, then that will be great. If not, then I've done what I can do and see how far it will take me.   
 But you know, I really just have to stay focused on myself. It's so hard to start looking ahead and looking to the next hole and then the front nine or the back nine. But I'm working really hard on trying to stay within myself and play against myself and no one else. So that's really my goal for tomorrow.   
 THE MODERATOR: Great. Thanks so much for coming in.  
 MARIA HJORTH: Okay. Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT