OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 9, 2009
Maria Hjorth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Your eagle, how did you do it?  
 MARIA HJORTH: I hit a good drive and hit a wedge in there to maybe 15 feet and made the putt.   
 It was a very good day. I played really solid. I hit a few little so-so tee shots the last few holes, but you know, I was lucky it was in the desert on 8, but I had a perfect open lie into the green or whatever.   
 So, you know, you need little breaks like that, as well, if you hit bad shots.   
  
  Q. Just one bogey at the first, how did you make your bogey?   
 MARIA HJORTH: At the first I hit my tee shot left and couldn't really go for the green and played up short and didn't it hit a very good third shot and 2-putted for bogey.   
  
  Q. A lot of birdies on the back nine; easier?  
 MARIA HJORTH: Well, I don't know. It seems like if you -- I've been driving the ball really well and if you drive the ball well, then you'll have good chances in there.   
 I hit some good irons, as well, hitting them close, and you know, I have to take advantage of the par 5s, as well. They are not really reachable but close.  
  
  Q. Overall, how pleased and do you feel you're playing with your game?  
 MARIA HJORTH: I feel happy with my game. It's been very good for a while. It's been nice. I haven't played a tournament for awhile now, a few weeks, so it's nice to go out there and play well.  
  
  Q. Do you have your family with you?   
 MARIA HJORTH: I don't. I have my dad with me, but my daughter is with grandma in Sweden, and my husband is actually down caddying in Australia. We are kind of spread out a little bit everywhere.  
  
  Q. Who is he caddying for?  
 MARIA HJORTH: Bryce Molder.   
  
  Q. How did the course play today?  
 MARIA HJORTH: I think it's playing well but some of the greens are really, really fast; and some of the downhill putts and with the wind, it's playing fast. So you have to make sure that you place the ball in the right spot on the greens.   
  
  Q. Do you think the greens is one of the toughest parts?   
 MARIA HJORTH: I think so, for sure. You just really have to have good pace because there are some holes where you can't really go for the pins and you maybe leave yourself a little bit longer putt, and that's why it's important to have a feel.  
  
  Q. Can they be even tougher?   
 MARIA HJORTH: I think so. I don't know if they are going to the water the course or the greens or anything, but if they don't, they will definitely be a lot firmer and faster.  
  
  Q. What do you think is the key, is it the putting?   
 MARIA HJORTH: Of course you need to drive the ball well, too, but I think for sure, you need to get a good, nice, feel for the pace of the greens.   
  
  Q. There seemed to be a lot of new mums expecting. What will you say to them? Any benefits of being a mum?   
 MARIA HJORTH: Yeah, the benefits are if you don't play well or miss the cut or something, you don't get as low with your thoughts or you don't go over and over and over what's going on or why did I miss a cut. When you get home and you have your daughter there, it's a big difference, and you forget everything about golf and just enjoy being around her.   
 So I think that's really, really benefitted me a lot and just feel happier off the course.   
  
  Q. Has she been coming out to quite a few tournaments?   
 MARIA HJORTH: She's been coming to most of the events and my husband has been looking after her a lot and travelling with us.   
  
  Q. He's not caddying anymore?  
 MARIA HJORTH: No, he's just been a dad, actually so it's been very good.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT