MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 8, 2008
Maria Hjorth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN: Birdie on 4.
 MARIA HJORTH: Yes. Hit a rescue off the tee and then a gap wedge to 6 feet.
 MIKE SCANLAN: Okay. Bogey 5.
 MARIA HJORTH: Hit my tee shot, pretty good tee shot but it just kind of jumped in the rough and the rough is so thick there so I tried to hit a rescue but came up short, short left of the green. And then didn't hit a very good pitch. Just kind of pitched over the back of the green but hit a really good chip to like 3 inches. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: 7.
 MARIA HJORTH: 7, I hit an 8-iron to 15 feet.
 MIKE SCANLAN: 10.
 MARIA HJORTH: 10, hit a rescue off the tee and then a 9-iron to about 10 feet. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: 13.
 MARIA HJORTH: 13 I hit a drive off the tee and I hit it left so it went in the high grass and I couldn't find the ball so I had to go back to the tee. Hit my tee shot a little bit right and then got up on the green to about 25 feet and two putted in.
 MIKE SCANLAN: Birdie 15.
 MARIA HJORTH: I hit a very good drive. Kind of pushed my second shot a little bit but was lucky enough that I hit a rock and it came back left of the green, pin high. So I just hit a little chip there to about a foot.
 MIKE SCANLAN: 16.
 MARIA HJORTH: 16, hit a 4-iron off the tee. A pretty good second shot but it took a hard bounce. Kind of just bounced over just kind the first cut, and I made a chip.
 MIKE SCANLAN: And bogey 17.
 MARIA HJORTH: Hit an 8-iron just kind of right edge of the green and the chip kind of ran off a little bit more than I expected to -- I don't know, 4 feet probably, and then I missed the putt.
 MIKE SCANLAN: If you would just take us through your day. It was a long one, it was a hot one, and then four extra playoff holes. How do you feel right now? 
 MARIA HJORTH: Well right now I don't think it's really hit me but I'm sure I'm going be very, very tired pretty soon. But I'm very, very happy with the day. I played solid golf all day and, you know, just very proud of myself kind of hanging in there off of the double bogey, getting a couple of birdies back. And, you know, still being able to be in the playoff. 
 And, you know, for 18 in regulation I hit a really good putt and it just didn't break as I wanted. And, you know, the other holes that I played, I just had great birdie chances on every hole. Unfortunately it didn't go my way.
 MIKE SCANLAN: Questions?

 Q. Do you know -- did you know much about Yani? Even into this week or into this year. Do you know about her record or (No microphone)
 MARIA HJORTH: I don't know about her record, what she's done before. I just know she's been playing really well this year. I know she is a good ball striker. I haven't really seen her play. This is kind of the first time. I mean she is a very good player and she's been up in contention a lot. So you got to be very good to be there. 
 She's been knocking on the door a few tournaments and it seems this was her tournament apparently.

 Q. Did you know anything about her reputation at the start the year, for example?
 MARIA HJORTH: No, no. I didn't know of her at all, no.

 Q. And (No microphone)
 MARIA HJORTH: No.

 Q. What happened on the double? Did you hit somebody and it kicked in, or did it just bounce?
 MARIA HJORTH: I mean, it was going left and, you know, I guess it hit someone in the arm and kind of kicked in the high stuff. It would have been in the high stuff anyway. You know, if you're lucky to maybe find the ball you can take a drop kind of just outside the high stuff, then you'll be pretty lucky. But the was a bad tee shot and it was still going into the high grass.

 Q. You made the (No microphone). What do you tell yourself? How do you get back the emotion after something like that?
 MARIA HJORTH: Of course you get annoyed with yourself. You know you allow yourself to hit that bad tee shot. But, you know, I was still there even though I dropped two shots, you know. The leaders were still only the same score or one in front. So it wasn't like I totally dropped the tournament. 
 So that's what I had to tell myself. You know you still have a few birdie holes coming up and just make the best out of it and hopefully no one will run away with it, and they didn't. So I just, you know, tried to hang in there and I knew if I could make a few birdies I was still going to be close.

 Q. Your last birdie when you approached it did you know you had to make it? I mean, the way nobody had been able to end the tournament (No microphone)
 MARIA HJORTH: A little bit. She hit it close. But I knew I probably had to make the putt to be able to continue or at least if I made the putt make her putt a little bit longer. I hit a good putt but just didn't have enough break unfortunately.

 Q. (No microphone.)
 MARIA HJORTH: Yeah, about that. 

 Q. What were you thinking when the ball was in the air for the second shot on 15?
 MARIA HJORTH: On 15? Well I actually thought it was going to be right of the hazard. So I thought hopefully I can get a good lie in the rough. And, you know, hit a good chip up there and still make birdie but I guess it just hit the rock. And you just heard the crowd. I had no idea where the ball went but it kind of sounded like a good drop and not a bad one. So I was very fortunate to have a good chip out of that.
 MIKE SCANLAN: All right, Maria. Thanks so much for coming in. 
 MARIA HJORTH: Okay. Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT