THE SOLHEIM CUP
September 21, 2002
Maria Hjorth
Iben Tinning
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Congratulations.  Good real battle, was it? 

MARIA HJORTH:  Yes, it was.  It was a good match.  We didn't really make too many birdies in our group, but we made a few putts.  It was important to keep the game alive, and we got a few coming back in the last few holes.
Q.  Iben, your first Solheim  Cup win.  Are you delighted? 

IBEN TINNING:  It's fantastic.  Just  -- this morning I played all right, just had a few very silly shots where I never played before, a little bit shocked over that, and said I have never done that before, but first time for everything, so I was quite pleased getting out this afternoon, and then, obviously, it went well, so that's great.
Q.  Mimi, you played a really good game today.

MARIA HJORTH:  I didn't play as good as I did yesterday.  Yesterday I played very good, just kind of kept hanging in there and really made a few important putts, par putts, to save a few holes, and that's really what felt really good, and we kind of  -- we helped each other out, a few holes I was out in the trees and Iben was in the fairway and greens, so we were just kind of a good team today and just saved a few holes.
Q.  What was it like to win your first Solheim point? 

MARIA HJORTH:  It's just wonderful to get a point in the  -- put it in the house, I guess, for the team, and for myself, as well.
Q.  Do you have any questions? 
Q.  Silly shots, are you talking about 10 and 11 this morning?  What happened there? 

IBEN TINNING:  I have got no idea really because I felt like I was doing fine, I wasn't even nervous.  If I was nervous, I could understand it, but it's just -- my coach said afterwards, it was just a little bit of a balance problem.  I straightened out my right leg too much, and then the rest is fine. 
Q.  You were cutting underneath the ball? 

IBEN TINNING:  I was doing something silly, yeah.  Obviously, I got a little bit scared after that, I think I was really  -- you know, you do get scared when you don't hit the ball that well all the time, especially with those shots.
Q.  If both of you could answer this, what are your hopes for tomorrow when it comes to playing early in the morning or later in the day, and who you would like to play with, if you had a choice to play against someone? 

MARIA HJORTH:  I don't know.  I think our chances for tomorrow are great.  Everybody is really excited after the 4-0 result this afternoon, and everybody seems to be playing great golf, so I think it's going to be -- it's still going to be tough, and we have to make sure that everybody gets their own point, and if we get 12-0, that would be the absolutely, you know, brilliant, but we don't need that, but we will try to go out there and try to do that, and playing, I would probably try to play any of the younger girls, Kelli Kuehne, Laura Diaz, or Cristie Kerr. 

IBEN TINNING:  Well, same as Mimi, but I don't really care who I am playing with.  Bring them on.
Q.  Do you have any more questions?  No.  Thank you. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT