LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 27, 2001
Maria Hjorth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MARIA HJORTH:  Okay.  Birdie on the 2nd.  Hit a 4-iron for my second shot and 2-putted from about 35 feet.  No.  5, hit a 7-wood for my second shot  -- 7-iron, sorry, for my second shot.  That was about 15 feet.  2-putted.  6, hit a 5-iron off the tee, then a 52-degree wedge to about 8 feet.  7, I hit an 8-iron about 2 feet.   Bogey 8.  Hit a good tee shot.  Not so good second shot with a sand wedge; 3-putted.  9, pulled my tee shot a little bit, so it went through the rough.  I had to turn my second shot around the trees a little bit and it kind of stayed up straight.  Hit a pretty good chip.  But left myself maybe 18, 20-footer for par, and missed that one.  10, I hit my tee shot a little bit right in the rough, but got it up on the green for my second shot; 25 feet and 3-putted.  12, hit a 3-wood for my second shot up onto the green; 2-putted from about 25 feet.  13, hit my driver a bit right, so I couldn't really go to the green.  I had to lay-up.  Third shot, just in the back edge of the green; 2-putted from about 15 feet.  14, the lob wedge for my third shot to 5 feet.  17, I had an 8-iron for my second shot to 8 feet. 

Q.  The bogeys on 8, 9, and 10, were kind of the downfall for your round.  What's your mind-set after that happens?  Do you get a little more relaxed just because the pressure's on the other people and you're kind of sneaking up?

MARIA HJORTH:  Yeah, I had it going.  I was up there tied for the lead playing all three holes.  The 8th hole seems to be something about this week, I bogeyed it three days out of four from the middle of the fairway.  I thought you are always going to make a few bogeys during the round.  Carin didn't today, she's been playing great.  I thought I made a few bogeys but I made a few birdies, still had a chance to be up there towards the end.  Coming down the stretch you never know.  It's a tough end to the golf course.  I kept playing away, and I was playing pretty solid.  Had those bogeys really.  Finished two behind with four bogeys.  I can't complain about that.  

Q.  (Inaudible.)

MARIA HJORTH:  Yeah, but, well, Carin 2-putted 17, which kind of -- two shots.  But you never know.  I can make birdie, she can make bogey.  There's still a chance.  But she's been playing very solid all day and hasn't made any mistakes at all.  But I'm very happy with my second finish.

Q.  (Inaudible.)

MARIA HJORTH:  Well, really, the last, playing 16, 17, 18, they're fairly tight tee shots and not that easy of second shots either.  You never know.  One mistake, you can make a bogey, the other person could make a birdie and (inaudible) 2-shot swing straight away.  I was trying really to make birdies.  If she made a mistake, I would be lucky.  But she was playing solid.  It didn't look like she was going to make any mistakes.

Q.  You played a lot of golf with her through the years?

MARIA HJORTH:  I haven't really, because she's two years older than I am.  So she was playing amateur golf before I got into the Swedish National Team.  We played probably more on the Swedish Professional Tour when I turned pro and I was still an amateur and she turned pro.  So not much over there.

Q.  (Inaudible.)

MARIA HJORTH:  Well, you don't wish any bad luck.  You just hope that I can do well and make a few birdies and maybe catch up with her.  But of course, everybody make mistakes, but she didn't make any mistakes today.  So you can't really do much better.

Q.  Did you feel playing in three-somes today as opposed to the two-ball helped you guys as far as feeding off each other and playing pretty much, pushing each other to play really well?

MARIA HJORTH:  I think so.  I especially, when the three of us were tight teeing off from the first tee.  I think that was pretty good for all three of us, because we had control of what was happening with the leaders.  You know, the group behind, you could always see on the scoreboard what's happening.  I think that was pretty good. 

Q.  Do you think it's a racist remark when somebody says another foreigner won?  (Inaudible.)

MARIA HJORTH:  I don't know.  This is an International Tour.  It's not only an American Tour.  They should expect that the international players are going to win and there's a lot of good Swedish and Australian players and Canadian players.  They know there's going to be international players that win.  I don't think it's called racist.  I think they have to right now realize there are a lot of international players that are going to win.

Q.  Any concern when Rosie Jones started to make her run?  She's won the tournament twice and started out really hot today.  Any concern among you guys in the group?

MARIA HJORTH:  I don't know really, because the first six or seven holes you can't really look at the scores because these par 5s you can reach, and a lot of birdie chances.  I think you have to look at the scores after maybe the 12th or 13th hole and then realize:  Okay, I'm one behind or two behind or something.  I think the first five holes someone is always going to shoot up there and make eagles and birdies.  You can't look at it that way.  You have to keep on playing your own game. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)  Playing the way you did down the stretch, does to make it easier to take with two birdies?

MARIA HJORTH:  I think so, definitely.  14 birdied, and 17.  I had a good chance on 15 as well.  Yeah, it does.  I mean I still shot 3-under today.  And I can't really complain too much about it.  I'm happy with my second.  It's always better to win because winner takes it all.  But I'm happy with second.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT