LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY HERSHEY
April 14, 2017
Su-Yeon Jang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: This is our leader of the Lotte Championship, Su-Yeon Jang.   
I will start by saying great round, and how do you feel after three rounds so far?   
SU-YEON JANG: (Through translation.)  Overall I had a great feeling for my shots and putting today.  Because I had to finish up the second round this morning and playing another 18 I was a little bit tired, but I know I'm so far away from home and I travel so long to play this tournament, so I try to tell myself just to suck if up and have a good time and play a good round today.   
THE MODERATOR: Anyone have any questions?   
 Q.  Last year you played in the final group in the final round.  How much will that experience help you tomorrow?  
SU-YEON JANG: (Through translation.)  I played in the final group on both Friday and Saturday, last two days.  Frankly, I was pretty nervous last year playing in the final group for the last two days.   
Obviously I've gained a good amount of experience doing that.  Hopefully tomorrow I won't get too nervous.  I think that experience will help me play in the rest of the round tomorrow.   
 Q.  Tell us how your game is different than it was a year ago.  Also, not only the physical part, but emotionally what have you learned over the past year?  
SU-YEON JANG: (Through translation.)  Even outside the golf course I really tried to work on my consistency in everything that I do from a routine to work out.   
Last year sometimes if I didn't feel well maybe I wouldn't go hit the weight room.  I really worked on not going through this up and down in my routine and try to keep things consistent.   
Even on the golf course I really worked on my short game this past year, and I think I've improved quite a bit there.  Emotionally and physically I feel like I'm a better player today.   
 Q.  You've won on the KLPGA.  How do you think a win on the LPGA Tour, would it feel different, do you think?  How do you think you would feel?  
SU-YEON JANG: (Through translation.)  It's tough for me to answer that question because I haven't won on the LPGA Tour yet.   
But I think regardless of where you win, a win is a win.  I feel like I'm going to be very happy; not sure if it will feel any different.   
 Q.  Playing well here the last two years.  Something about this course that particularly fits your game?  
SU-YEON JANG: (Through translation.)  Yeah, I think obviously the golf course has a lot of wind factor in the tournament.  I think the greens are pretty receptive here.   
You know, when you compare to average players, I think I have a lower trajectory than a lot of the other players, so I think if fits my game.  Given the fact the greens are pretty receptive, I'm able to do what I want to do.   
 Q.  Good chance tomorrow you'll be playing with a woman that could be your mother.  What will that be like for you?  
SU-YEON JANG: (Through translation.)  Honestly I don't know who I'm going to be playing with tomorrow.  Being on the LPGA and having an opportunity to play with these players that I've never had an opportunity to play with is fantastic.   
I think there are a lot of things I can learn from these players on the LPGA.  Given I'm going to be in the final group tomorrow, I'm going to do my best to enjoy the round and have a good finish.   
 Q.  What will you do to prepare before the final round tomorrow?  
SU-YEON JANG: Yeah, I don't think I'm going to do anything different than I've done the last three days.  I'm really here to gain more experience, to become a better player.  I think I'll just go back to what I've done for the last three days and enjoy the round tomorrow.   
THE MODERATOR: Anyone else?   
 Q.  Having to finish your second round this morning, what did you do between the second and third rounds to stay ready?  
SU-YEON JANG: (Through translation.)  My eyes were starting to hurt a little bit, so I kept my eyes closed for a few minutes.  My dad really cooked up some good food, so some good food, got some rest, and got ready for the next round.   
THE MODERATOR: All right, thank you, Su-Yeon.  Good luck tomorrow.   
SU-YEON JANG: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT