WACHOVIA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 8, 2003
Steve Allan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Could you start with some opening comments.  Certainly got off to a good start and it looks like the scores are going to be kind of on the high side compared to the last few weeks.  69 is certainly a good score today.
STEPHEN AMES:  It's going to be on the high side because of the golf course.  It's playing longer, one, because of all the rain we've had; and two, the greens, they are not fast, but they are exceptionally slopey.  I think on the whole today I had only one flat putt which was on the last hole.  Other than that, the birdie putt, I had two or three I missed from five feet. 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  You've had two Top-10s this season.  Maybe talk about your play so far this year and what your goals are. 
STEPHEN AMES:   My play this year, my putter has been really good the last couple weeks.  My ball-striking's been on the weaker side, especially on the driving part.  But the last couple of week, it's improved a lot and my putting has gone down but that's golf. 
I haven't played a lot.  I've played ten events, and the ones that I've played, I've had a good opportunity, an opportunity to play well and didn't capitalize on those opportunities that I had, but overall, fairly happy with this year. 

Q.  What's the most important thing out here, get the ball on the fairway or on the right side of the green?
STEPHEN AMES:   The right side of the green, definitely.  Because it's an opportunity of at least giving yourself a chance.  It's more defensive mode. 

Q.  Inaudible?
STEPHEN AMES:   I played with  -- this time of year, it's still fairly  moist.  It can get quick, I'm sure. 

Q.  That 69, was that something you felt like it could have been better?
STEPHEN AMES:   It could have been better, no doubt.  I missed a couple putts on the par  3s for birdie today.  It could have been better, yeah. 

Q.  The course for a lot of guys, it's a challenge, but do you look at it that way; or do you feel like, you know what, the course, it's tough, it's long, but give me some low scores out here?
STEPHEN AMES:   Low scores , depending where they put the flagsticks, you can get a low score.  And then again, if the weather continues the way it is right now and dries out, it will be tough to get the ball close to the hole because the greens will be a lot firmer.

Q.  You said you missed 3-putts inside five feet for birdie; were they breaking down? 
STEPHEN AMES:   No.  They weren't even flat, no. 

Q.  The USGA, it sounds like they are going to come out and take a look at this place, do you think it's Open-worthy?
STEPHEN AMES:   Yeah, I do.  I think a lot of guys feel the same way, too.  It's got that caliber of play, the old style greens, bunkers, definitely. 

Q.  What are some holes that really get your attention that define the golf course?  People talk about 16, 17, 18, any others that you like the best? 
STEPHEN AMES:   The third and fourth holes, you have to move the ball the right way, especially if it's running.  The third hole is a tough hole just to keep the ball in the fairway because it's going to run off the left, so you've got to put your ball up the left side or keep it on the right side of the fairway if it's running.  And then the fourth hole is a good driving hole, great green. 

Q.  Are you waiting for your putting and ball-striking to come together the same week?
STEPHEN AMES:   Well, yeah, like everybody else  -- inaudible. 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Can you go through your score card, starting on the front side. 
STEPHEN AMES:   First hole I hit 3-wood, 9-iron to about five feet there. 
4, I drove it left in the rough.  I missed an eight-footer for par there. 
5, driver and 3-wood, laid up down in the valley, and then I hit wedge to about 20 feet and made that. 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN: 6 was playing 241 today, what did you hit there? 
STEPHEN AMES:   I hit a 3-wood ten yards short.  I hit it pin-high left, the pin was in the far right and I took it down to about three feet and made par. 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Glad to get out of there with a par. 
STEPHEN AMES:   Oh, yeah. 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  And came back with a birdie on No.  9.
STEPHEN AMES:   I hit driver, 4-iron to about 12, 15 feet there. 
14, I hit a 3-iron off the tee, wedge to about two feet. 
15, I hit my good drive and I had 250 up there.  I missed the trap by about two feet and then last, two feet and made par. 

Q.  Inaudible?
STEPHEN AMES:   Well, the second shot there, unfortunately, if you hit it far right and long  -- I went up the left side and tried to hit right-to-left.  My second shot, I got it over the trap on the right-hand side of the fairway and got it back into that little corner they have.  The way the hole is designed, you have to hit it up the left side if the pin is on the left and right side if the pin is on the right.  I ended up being in the trap. 

Q.  Have you played this course before  it became a regular Tour event ?
STEPHEN AMES:   I played here five years ago when IMG had an outing here and back then I thought it was a good golf course, but that was before they put the new tees in.  When I came out, I heard that they added 300 yards to the golf course.  I think they made some wonderful changes.  They have done something with the greens but maybe after this week, they probably might think about it, like the sixth green.  250 is okay, but the green, I don't think the green is the right side and the right shape for that length of a tee shot. 

Q.  How about 14? 
STEPHEN AMES:   To which tee?  If they put the pin all the way in the back left back corner, yeah, they probably will do that. 

Q.  The back right? 
STEPHEN AMES:   No.  The green  -- it's a good hole.  It's a good little challenging hole.



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT