GENUITY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 28, 2002
Steve Allan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  We'd like to welcome Steve Allan to the interview area.  Steve shot a 6-under, 66 today.  One bogey.  Steve, let's get started with some openings comments about the round maybe something about the conditions that you had out there.
STEVE ALLAN: It was pretty cold out there.  That was probably the most obvious one.  A little bit of wind here and there, but not too bad, and I mean I think the course is in pretty good shape, greens are rolling really well. 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Let us talk a little bit about about your round, about your birdies and bogeys.  Tell us some the clubs you hit in today, maybe some particularly good shots.
STEVE ALLAN: I guess started on 10, I hit drive and 3-wood, front bunker, got up-and-down about probably six feet.
12 I hit a wedge to about eight feet. 
13 bogey was 3, hooked way left.
14 was a chip-in from just off the front.
15 was 8-iron to about probably eight feet again.
Two was 8-iron to maybe 15 feet.  Probably 20.
8 hit a bad drive had lay-up wedge to about 8 feet.
9 hit 8-iron to about ten feet. 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  How important was it to end up birdie, birdie for you?
STEVE ALLAN: Well, it was nice.  I was glad to have a good round under my belt whatever way I finished, because last week I felt I was hitting the ball really well; didn't make any putts; didn't score very well on a course that everyone was scoring well, and so today I tried to be a bit more patient and few things went right.  It was really nice to finish it off and have a really good score. 

Q.    Generally do you have good vibes starting here?  How does this course set up for you?
STEVE ALLAN: I played pretty well here last year.  This morning, I don't know, I felt I wasn't hitting it particularly well on the range.  So I was a little bit worried as compared to like last week where I really was hitting it well.  I was -- I guess today most of my misses went straight, a lot of my drives didn't stay on the fairway which is pretty important here with the rough here and the greens are probably not super firm, but a lot of pins were kind of (inaudible) off the back, it is pretty important to be on the fairway.
I don't know I guess, yeah, I played well here last year, I hit the ball well last year; didn't finish particularly well, but it sets up fairly well.  I feel a lot more comfortable on it after having played last year.  I think a lot of the tee shots are a little bit kind of confusing the first time around, just the way the bunkers and and fairways  dog-leg at angles, at certain holes.  This year I definitely feel a lot more comfortable on the course.

Q.   Good driver's course, is driving a strong part of your game?
STEVE ALLAN: It can be both.  If I am driving well it is a strong part because I think I hit the ball fairly long and I think Tiger has pretty much proven that any course, if you are driving it well, any course you can score on.  I think this is  a good example of it.  A lot of the holes can play quite tough.  If you hit a good drive all of a sudden you are only hitting 8, 9-iron in.  My weakness is my driving can be erratic at times.  Some days it is a strength and other days it's a weakness.

Q.   You said you were happy with the way you played last week.  What about in general this year; satisfied?
STEVE ALLAN: Not particularly, I think I have only made one cut out of 3 -- 4 that's not anything exciting.  The last few weeks I think it seems like it's not far away.  It felt that way the whole of last year, never quite turned around, so I think just trying to keep patient and feel like I am swinging the club better than I was last year, and if I can just keep handling that and I am sure with a bit of time some good scores and good tournaments will come along. 

Q.   Have you been in a situation where you have been tied for the lead yet out here?
STEVE ALLAN: Not on the PGA TOUR, no. 

Q.   Are you ready to win out here?
STEVE ALLAN: I think I am capable of it.  I think I have get a lot of golf to go before, you know, still three rounds to go and hell of a lot of good players here, so I am going to try and pretty much keep that out of my mind because I think another one of my weaknesss is getting ahead of myself.  I will be pretty much trying to play well tomorrow at this stage. 

Q.   North wind makes this course play a little bit easier, holes coming in?
STEVE ALLAN: It is different, yeah.  I think once I hit my tee shot on 14, my first nine, it seemed like every hole coming in was playing a lot easier than it can.  I think 15 can be a tough par 3, 16 action be pretty tricky, then 17 and 18 can just be flat out tough.  Today with good tee shots they weren't -- in fact, 18, I had hit 3-wood, 8-iron, so it's not playing as tough as it can. 





End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT