FRYS.COM OPEN
October 24, 2008
Steve Allan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You posted double digits today, now you get to enjoy the rest of the afternoon. What a nice Friday shaping up for you. 
 STEVE ALLAN: It was a good morning. I was probably a little bit scrappy early and got a couple lucky breaks, putted really well and played really good on the second nine.

 Q. Putted really well, I guess that would be the definition when a player takes 25 putts in a round. Wow, that is really rolling it well. 
 STEVE ALLAN: That is good. I don't do that very often, so that was nice. I had a chip-in early on, which helps those putting stats, but the way the greens are, they're quite quick, so you have a lot of those mid-range little par putts, three- and four-footers, and I made them all today.

 Q. It's been two days of good ball-striking, 30 of 36 greens?
 STEVE ALLAN: Yeah, it was good. Like I said, the first few holes this morning were a little shaky and then after that I was really solid.

 Q. Tell us a little bit about your season. I know you were frustrated and then suddenly you found something at the Viking. You finished fourth and then finished third at Turning Stone. You're the king of the Fall Series right now. 
 STEVE ALLAN: Yeah, I'm playing well. It's nice to be playing well. There's a lot on the line at this time of year, and I'm really trying hard not to think about it and just enjoy the fact that I'm hitting the ball good.

 Q. Mechanical change, mental change, new attitude, what accounts for the turnaround?
 STEVE ALLAN: There was a bit of a change. I think I wasn't really getting anywhere in the middle of the year, and my coach has been sort of encouraging me to swing a little bit softer for a couple years now. It's something that I really struggle to do on the course, and in the middle of the year there around the British Open, Milwaukee time, I just wasn't doing any good, so I decided to bite the bullet and do it. It took a few weeks to take effect, but it's really helped.

 Q. You said a lot on the line. 139 on the Money List. I know you want to get 125, maybe even higher than that. You're obviously very much /A aware of your standings on Tour. 
 STEVE ALLAN: Yeah, I am, but a month ago I was 198 so I'm kind of happy to be 139. But like I said, it's just nice to be playing well. I wish the season was going for a lot longer.

 Q. Well, it's a sprint to the finish line here in Scottsdale and then down to Florida. Good luck to you. 
 STEVE ALLAN: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT