TURNING STONE RESORT CHAMPIONSHIP
October 5, 2008
Steve Allan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Just get a couple comments on your round today. 
 STEVE ALLAN: I played really well today. I think ball striking-wise and like rolling the ball it's probably my best round of week. I just needed a couple more putts to go in to get right there. 
 I think I had a few not go in, and I had a couple sort of in the middle of front nine, 5, 9, and 10, which I felt were good putts and didn't go in.

 Q. Not over yet though. 
 STEVE ALLAN: No, but I think with the Par 5 coming in I don't like my chances.

 Q. This is really important here for you, isn't it?
 STEVE ALLAN: Yeah, I mean, I haven't had a good season so far. I never felt like my game was that far away, I just kept missing the cut. Worked pretty hard and hopefully can keep it going.

 Q. What's happened these two weeks?
 STEVE ALLAN: Well, probably about seven or eight weeks ago I jsut made the commitment to start swinging the club slower. It's something that I -- I swing the club pretty fast. It's something that never felt comfortable on the course. 
 I just wasn't getting anywhere with what I was doing. I just decided to do it whether it feels uncomfortable. Straightaway I played well in Canada and then terrible in Reno. 
 I didn't make the FedExCup, but I played a couple Nationwides to try to get used to it a bit more, and it feels better. Feels like I'm hitting the ball a lot more consistent. The last two weeks I've putted really well, as well, so... 

 Q. No matter what, you're going to make a pretty good money jump. For guys like you down there trying to make the jump, how important is a performance like this?
 STEVE ALLAN: Yeah, it's huge. I don't even know how many more starts I'm going to get this season, so to have a big finish gives me a real chance. I think I'm going get probably two, maybe one more, and that gives me a chance... 

 Q. Why, because of your number?
 STEVE ALLAN: Yeah, I'm playing out of the conditional category, so I wouldn't have got in here without the top 10 at Jackson two weeks ago. 
 So it's huge to give me a chance to keep my card. 

 Q. What made you make this change like in August? Did you think of it or somebody...
 STEVE ALLAN: Well, my coach has been at me for years do it. It's one of those things that I never -- when I'm on the course it just doesn't feel comfortable. I feel comfortable hitting hard shots. I feel comfortable swinging it firm. 
 I just wasn't playing any good. I felt like I was hitting it good and practicing well, but when I got to the course around that John Deere/Milwaukee time, I just wasn't playing good. 
 I'm like, Well, I've got nothing to lose. I might as well pull the trigger.

 Q. What's you coach's name?
 STEVE ALLAN: Dale Lynch. 

 Q. He's from where?
 STEVE ALLAN: He's from Melbourne, but he's moving to North Carolina next year. 

 Q. Had he been after you for a while to try to do this?
 STEVE ALLAN: Yeah, pretty much.

 Q. And you were too stubborn?
 STEVE ALLAN: Yep.

 Q. I guess you're glad you finally listened. 
 STEVE ALLAN: Exactly.

 Q. Is it that much of an exaggerated difference?
 STEVE ALLAN: Well, it's probably not something that other people would notice, but I think it gets me to the point that when I then hit one firm it doesn't look fast. I think my takeaway was fast, and he always said to me, There's no point in having a fast takeaway. You don't hit the ball until you're coming down. 
 So it's a matter of trying to get a better rhythm. I think it helps my technique, as well, and it just, you know... 

 Q. Slows everything down?
 STEVE ALLAN: Yeah, just better rhythm.

 Q. Funny game, huh?
 STEVE ALLAN: Yep. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT