CANADIAN OPEN
July 28, 2007
Steve Allan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   NELSON SILVERIO:  Steve, thanks for joining us.  How about we start with some general comments about your round? 
 STEVE ALLAN:  Overall, I played well.  Didn't hole enough putts.  You know, I made a couple nice little par putts, but that's about it.  That's my deal for tomorrow.  Hopefully I can keep hitting the ball well and hole some more putts. 
 NELSON SILVERIO:  Is that the mind-set going into Sunday, just focus on those greens? 
 STEVE ALLAN:  Yeah, you know, I'll just do the same things that I've been doing, same things I've been working on.  Just keep my swing rhythm and hopefully keep hitting the ball well and hopefully do some work on the putting greens to get the pace probably a bit better. 

 Q.  You spoke yesterday about wanting to stay within your own game and not get caught up with what was going on out there, evaluate your performance today; were you able to do that pretty well? 
 STEVE ALLAN:  Yeah, I think I did really well, actually, because I didn't really know what was going on.  And I guess the good thing is a couple of times I saw the leaderboard, I didn't really change my mind-set or what I was doing.  It was good today and I have to keep working on it for tomorrow. 

 Q.  Tall order, you're paired with Vijay; I assume that's what you're playing for to try to get into that situation? 
 STEVE ALLAN:  Yeah, I mean, you know, if tomorrow is the first day if I could pull off a win on the PGA TOUR, what better way to do it than with one of best players.  Either way, it's going to be a lot of fun to be out there in the last group.  Yeah, that's why we play, to compete and beat the best; I'm looking forward to it. 

 Q.  Given your position, do you think you'll have trouble sleeping tonight? 
 STEVE ALLAN:  I never have any trouble sleeping.  (Laughing). 

 Q.  With no disrespect, probably no one expects you to beat Vijay; is that a good spot for you, that you can kind of free-wheel it a little? 
 STEVE ALLAN:  I guess so.  Nobody would expect me to beat Vijay, but I know I've got the game to play well.  You know, whether you play better than Vijay, who knows.  He's a great player and he could go out and shoot 63.  If he shoots 63 and I shoot 65, I'm going to be pretty happy at the end of the day.  But you're obviously in to win it, so if I've got a chance, you know, I'll be going for it. 

 Q.  I walked all 18 holes with you today, it was a treat to watch you play.  There were not many of us out there, especially on the front nine.  I wonder what your weekend experience is playing in the last group and whether you noticed the crowd today or lack thereof? 
 STEVE ALLAN:  I noticed, but if I was a golf fan I would be watching Vijay, as well.  So I can't blame anyone for that.  I haven't played in the last group on a Sunday many times.  I don't even know if I have on the PGA TOUR.  I have in Australia, and maybe that's it.  Maybe when I won the Australian Open, I'm not 100% sure, but that would be my guess. 

 Q.  What is it about your game this week that's put you in this position you're in now? 
 STEVE ALLAN:  I've been hitting the ball really well.  I've been driving the ball well.  I've been hitting most of my irons pretty well.  I've hit a lot of greens.  I think the course, you know, the course is reasonably generous off the tee.  So driving accuracy is normally not my strength, but when I'm playing well, I feel like I can compete on any course, but when they give you more room, it probably helps me. 
 I've been playing pretty well generally the last few months.  Just a matter of putting it all together.  Thursday I putted nicely; yesterday first nine, putted really nicely.  It's just I feel like my game is kind of coming together I guess. 

 Q.  Can you tell us how you got to far over the 18th green? 
 STEVE ALLAN:  I think it got a big bounce and I think it hit the cart path.  From where I was on the fairway it looked like it landed on the back edge; I don't know if that was right or not.  My yardage was about 153 to the pin and I normally hit sea level, hit my wedge about 137, 140, so I felt like it was just a normal wedge.  The wind was howling downwind, so I thought that was going to be a good yardage and just maybe a little bit of nervous energy, I hit the ball maybe a little bit too hard.  It was a good shot in the air, I thought it was good and it just didn't come down. 
 Yeah, maybe a little adrenaline and maybe the wind. 

 Q.  (About how greens are playing). 
 STEVE ALLAN:  The greens, no.  I think the firmer they are, the better the golf course plays.  I think -- I really like the course.  I think if the greens had been firm right from the outset, I don't think too many people would be saying it it's too easy because a lot of those pins can get tucked.  The fairways might be wide, but you need that room to work your way around. 

 Q.  Were greens firming up today? 
 STEVE ALLAN:  They are getting there.  They are not soft, they are not really soft.  I mean, we played firm greens in Australia, so I like playing firm greens, you know. 
 NELSON SILVERIO:  Thanks a lot.  Good luck tomorrow. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT