CANADIAN OPEN
July 27, 2007
Steve Allan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Solid day.  Not as spectacular as your opening round, but did exactly what you needed to do through 36?   
 STEVE ALLAN:  Yeah, absolutely.  Early on there was a little wind blowing, but so it was a little bit tougher than yesterday morning.  But, you know, I played well, hit a lot of greens, lot of fairways, drove the ball well.  So it was very nice.   
  
  Q.  What is it about this course that sets up for you, or is it just the way you've been playing of late?   
 STEVE ALLAN:  I think it's a combination of both.  I think my driving accuracy is not my strength, but the fairways are generous here.  And I'm hitting the ball really well, so I think that suits me.   
  
  Q.  At what point does it hit you when you start to look at the scoreboard, we're a long way to go, but you start to think?  I know you guys say one shot at a time, but seeing yourself on the top of the leaderboard has got to be --   
 STEVE ALLAN:  Well, it's nice to be up there, nice to be playing well.  But one of my biggest faults in the past has been getting ahead of myself, so I definitely have to take it one shot at a time.  I'll probably try not to look at any leaderboards over the weekend, and just play as good as I can.   
  
  Q.  Steve, you haven't had a Top 10 yet this year.  Is this some kind of breakthrough?   
 STEVE ALLAN:  Well, there's one way to go, you know.  Playing well quite a few times, just haven't cracked the big finish.  So if I can keep my game in shape, hopefully, I'll have a good weekend and I'll have a big finish.   
  
  Q.  Does it effect you at all when you see other big names like Vijay right there with you at all?  Or do you just stay in your own game?   
 STEVE ALLAN:  Yeah, I've got to stay in my own game.  Any time you're going to do well on the PGA Tour, there are going to be some big names there.   
 Even in, you know, even in some of the smaller events when Vijays and Jim Furyks aren't there, there's guys that have won majors and things in past.  So that's just part of it.   
  
  Q.  You seemed to get that (Inaudible)?   
 STEVE ALLAN:  Yeah, but I'm just trying to take it one shot at a time.  It sounds very cliche, but it's pretty true.  You got to get into it, and really, you know, I can't change what everyone else is doing, they can't change me.  So I've just got to do as good as I can.   
  
  Q.  Why does this course suit you?   
 STEVE ALLAN:  Well, I think, well, I'm playing well for a start.  So when I'm playing well, any course will suit me.  But I think it's generous off the tee.  I'm driving the ball well, so I think it's a big advantage, you know.   
 The rough's pretty thick, and even though the fairways are wide, if you're in the rough, you're not going to have much of a chance out there.  So playing from the fairway all day gives you a chance to make some birdies.   
  
  Q.  Do you think that you might get the wind again this afternoon?   
 STEVE ALLAN:  Yeah, I don't really know.  I guess, you know, there are some possible thunderstorms forecast, so I really didn't know what was coming.  So you expect to play with a bit more wind in the afternoon than we did.  So I think we definitely had the good side of the draw for sure.   
  
  Q.  You haven't had a chance to play much this year, is it exciting to be in the hunt?   
 STEVE ALLAN:  Yeah, it's great.  That's what you play golf for, to be up there.  You know, what could be more fun than being up there on the PGA Tour, right?   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT