CANADIAN OPEN
July 26, 2007
Steve Allan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Thanks for coming in for a couple of minutes.  Good playing out there.  I was just staying looks like you're trending the right way.  You've had a good couple of weeks.  Anything specific that's clicked in the swing? 
 STEVE ALLAN:  No, I've just been working on the same things.  I had a, you know, I've been playing pretty well all year, just a lot of the year I didn't get many starts, so it was a bit hard to get any momentum going, any feel for it.  And you know, I've just started to hit the ball well. 

 Q.  How were conditions out there today? 
 STEVE ALLAN:  It was perfect this morning.  There was hardly a breath of wind.  It was warm, greens were soft, and pins were accessible.  So it was definitely a good score out there. 

 Q.  What did you make of the course out there? 
 STEVE ALLAN:  I like it.  I think it's good.  I think, you know, it's definitely very playable.  The fairways are quite wide.  It's a pretty good design.  I think it's going to play pretty easy unless the greens firm up, because they're really soft out there today.  But overall it's pretty fair, I like it. 

 Q.  How hard is it to gain any momentum when, like you say, you don't play a lot?  What do you do? 
 STEVE ALLAN:  Well, you know last year in, I guess, December when I got through Q-school, I got through right on the number, so I knew that was going to be the case early in the year.  I knew I had limited starts.  I played reasonably well in some of the ones I got, but not well enough to make a big enough move to make a lot of starts. 
 So I just, you know, you just have to be patient.  You know, I've sort of been through Q-school a few times and I knew that was the case.  It gives you, you know, the good thing is it gives you time to work on your game.  So if you have a week off that's forced, you can make use of it, and hopefully get your game in good shape.  And so far this second half of the year, it's been going well. 

 Q.  Something -- I think you're like 130, 140 something like that in the FedEx Cup point thing.  Does the FedEx Cup, the very existence of it, change your outlook on an event like this or what you have to do? 
 STEVE ALLAN:  Not with my position this year.  I think if I was fully exempt, it probably would.  Currently, my position, I want to just get in those to get some more tournaments, because I've only played, I think, 13 before this week.  And that's every event that I've been able to get into.  So really this year for me it was about getting into events and just trying to get reestablished, I guess on the tour. 
 You know, I'm sure for some of the big guys that's definitely the case.  They change the schedule around and things like that.  But, for me, I'm playing everything I can get into. 

 Q.  Do you then at the start of the year look at this event and say this is the week after the British Open, nobody's going to be playing there, therefore, I'm going to definitely play? 
 STEVE ALLAN:  Well, like I said, I'll play everything that I get into this year.  So I, you know, in the past, if I was fully exempt, I think it just the whole schedule you have to miss some tournaments.  I mean, the Canadian Open's a great event, but sometimes, you know, it's just different things.  Some guys will play the courses they like.  Some will say I'm going to play three in a row, three in a row. 
 I think, you know, there's a lot of guys missing this week, but it's still a good field.  Vijay, Jim Furyk, Mike Weir, there's still some quality players here.  So it's not -- it's a pretty good, solid week, I think, for the PGA Tour. 

 Q.  (Inaudible). 
 STEVE ALLAN:  I can do it, that's fine.  I started on obviously 10, hit a good drive with a 9-iron, missed probably about a 12-footer.  Hit a good drive and a 6-iron into 11, and missed about a 10-footer.  The 12th was a 4-wood, and a 4-wood and a wedge which came up short, and I flubbed a little chip and missed the putt.  13 was a driver, sand wedge to about 15 feet, made it.  Next hole was a 9-iron, missed it. 
 I don't know if you just want the birdies, I don't know what.  Birdies?  Yeah.  The par 5 is 15, I actually hooked my driver a little bit there, thought it might have gone in the water, but it got lucky and snuck around the corner.  And I had a 4-wood, which I got to the edge of the green and two-putted, got about 35 feet.  17, hit a really good 6-iron to about two feet.  2 was a good drive, and a wedge just about 10 feet, which I made.  3 was a 4-wood again which I hooked and got lucky because it snuck around the bunker and hit a good little lob wedge to about 8 feet there. 
 What's the next hole?  4 was the par 3, which was playing short today.  So I only had a 7-iron, and a big curling putt about 15 feet, which was a tough putt, which I got right and it went in.  6 was a 4-wood and a 9-iron to about eight feet.  And then, that was the birdies.  And the last two holes I was a bit scrappy.  Got up-and-down on 8.  I think I hit a guy in the crowd, might have gone in the hazard but stayed in the rough and I hit a good chip on the putt.  And made a big hook on the last into the rough, which I got a good lie and got on to the edge of the green. 

 Q.  Is this your best start in a PGA Tour event? 
 STEVE ALLAN:  I think first round, yeah.  Probably.  Yeah, I think so. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT