NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CANADIENS v FLYERS
May 23, 2010
Scott Gomez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Scott, one of the burning issues of the day, Pierre McGuire on NBC reported there was some sand down and that affected Flyers' skates. Were you having trouble with your skates too yesterday, or is that a bizarre issue as far as you're concerned?   
 SCOTT GOMEZ: It's the first I've heard of it. Yeah, kind of caught me off guard. I don't even know, no.   
  
  Q. I think Jacques said this morning in Brossard that you and Moore both needed skates sharpened during the course of the game at some point?   
 SCOTT GOMEZ: Yeah, true, but --   
  
  Q. Is that fairly standard?   
 SCOTT GOMEZ: Yeah, that happens a lot during the game. For two guys at the same time … it ’s probably unusual, but, no.   
  
  Q. This kind of the first time you've heard of something like this in the Playoffs, sabotage or espionage?   
 SCOTT GOMEZ: Yeah, it truly is. I'm more shocked with that or what Spacek's wearing, so...   
  
  Q. You wouldn't be worried about any kind of tricks tomorrow at Wachovia Center?   
 SCOTT GOMEZ: No, no. I mean, and if there are, good for them. I mean, it's the Playoffs, and, hey, do whatever you can. But I don't think -- yeah, that's really stretching it.   
  
  Q. Nobody's ever --   
 SCOTT GOMEZ: No (laughing).   
  
  Q. Sawed into your skates?   
 SCOTT GOMEZ: No, but I think --   
  
  Q. It's the wildest thing you've ever pulled on anybody in Pee Wee or Bantam or anything? Have you ever pulled off anything?   
 SCOTT GOMEZ: The best at getting guys -- I've seen some good card jokes. I've heard some great stories, but um …   
  
  Q. It's never you, right? It's always somebody else?   
 SCOTT GOMEZ: No, it's never me, you know (laughing). Yeah, I mean, if it was me, I wouldn't tell.   
  
  Q. You've got to keep some stuff to yourself?   
 SCOTT GOMEZ: Yeah, exactly, too sensitive these days.   
  
  Q. For your skates, was it because you got -- why did you have to have them sharpened? Was it you stepped on sticks?   
 SCOTT GOMEZ: I don't know. I think right in the start of the second, just it's one of those things. The game's so fast out there. I think I hit someone's stick or something. But you kind of have a feeling, and then you get back to the bench. Right away you can tell from the trainer from his look. If it's not bad, he'll just say all right. And then he gave me the look, looked up at the clock and said we can do it now or want to wait for the timeout. Usually when they say that, it's an indication you better get off. And I came off, and Moorsy came off and yeah.   
  
  Q. But you weren't --   
 SCOTT GOMEZ: That's really searching for stories.   
  
  Q. Actually where it comes from is that Mike Richards had to go in four or five times?   
 SCOTT GOMEZ: Is that right? I noticed a couple of guys. You're kind of hoping.   
  
  Q. Kimmo Timonen?   
 SCOTT GOMEZ: Yeah, they had some big names going, you're kind of hoping they don't come back. But that must have been what it was. I saw Richards go over, and, yeah, you're kind of hoping in the back of your mind, hoping it's an injury. But he's skating all right. So, that's just Playoffs. But now it's coming -- yeah, I did notice a couple of guys that that happened to.   
  
  Q. More importantly, being on the brink now, you guys have done nothing but win in this position. Why does that happen? Can you talk about it?   
 SCOTT GOMEZ: Well, I mean, the good thing is you can't really say we've not been in this situation. There ’s no secret. We have to win. You know, I don't know if that's been the attitude we've had or gone to, but, hey, it's just one -- basically, when you're put in this situation, it's really one shift, one period. I mean, you can't even look too far ahead. Just take the challenges set in front of us. People have been making a huge deal about the Bell Centre and stuff. This arena here is pretty neat. They've got the atmosphere and the people in Philly. So it's going to be a big challenge for us. But, at the same time, we've had our backs against the wall a lot this year, and we've found a way, so why not again?   
  
  Q. Is there a memory bank that you dip into in a case like this, the fact that you've been there before?   
 SCOTT GOMEZ: Yeah.   
  
  Q. Is it all the same thing, like  “here we are again ”?   
 SCOTT GOMEZ: Yeah, here we are again. And it seems ten years ago I was in the same situation. But I mean, it's a different -- it's a different league; it's a different time. Experience helps, but at the same time, we have to go out there and put the effort out. It's not going to be handed to us. It's a great club over there and they're in the situation where I think everyone felt that Philly -- look at their roster, I mean, they're well-coached, and, hey, it's going to be tough for us. But we love the challenge. We've loved it all year. And here we go. I don't know what else to say, but we'll be ready. Yeah, you can look back at the past what we did, build whatever you want to build off that. But at the same time, it's a total different team, total different times, so we've got to -- it's a new challenge for us.   
  
  Q. Given the way the first four games have gone?   
 SCOTT GOMEZ: Yeah, it's one of those Series that I think for both sides you get that first one the way this Series is, you don't want to say maybe it loosens up, but maybe just a sigh of breath. But, especially for us. But it's one of those series, that whoever jumps out first gets the upper hand. It's going to be important. But we're fighting for our lives, literally. So, yeah, whatever. I mean, whoever scores first, it shouldn't matter to us. We've almost got to go there and stick with our game plan and do whatever it takes to get a win out.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT