NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: STARS v DEVILS
June 10, 2000
Jason Arnott
Scott Gomez
Claude Lemieux
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Congratulations. Two-part question. Does it ever become old hat and second of all,
do you feel kind of blessed sort of the way fate has taken you throughout your career -
wherever you show up the team usually wins the Stanley Cup?

CLAUDE LEMIEUX: I have been blessed and there is no two ways about it. I think there
are lot of great athletes in this sport that are great people and great athletes and never
get the opportunity that I have had, but I think there comes a time when you need to make
decisions and it was a hard one leaving Colorado, but with the will of wanting to win
again and hoping that New Jersey would be the right place for us, we made the move and
thanks to Mr. McMullen and Lou Lamoriello that brought me here and it is just an
unbelievable day today. That is one of them. I got four kids and one liked the Stanley Cup
so this one is for my little girl that is not here tonight, but they all share a Stanley
Cup now, so they are equally blessed and rewarded.

Q. Claude, as a former Conn Smythe winner yourself, can you talk about what Scott
Stevens did for this team and why he was so deserving of that award?

CLAUDE LEMIEUX: There was no doubt that in my mind if we won the Cup that Scotty was
going to be our MVP. I think from the first round on he led the way. He punished people.
He played the best hockey I have seen him play. He has been around a long time and he's
blessed himself with quite a talent and leadership and he was able to help us win another
Stanley Cup.

Q. I am sure when you came to training camp you knew this was all going to work out the
way it did?

SCOTT GOMEZ: Yeah, it was in the bag (laughs), no, it just -- I don't even know how to
explain it. I came into training camp and you think about it, I mean, it is always in your
mind winning a Stanley Cup and to finally -- it's happened, I don't know -- I don't even
know what to say.

Q. Jason, obvious question, the highlight of your career, can you explain the moment
and how it felt and how it feels now?

JASON ARNOTT: It feels -- I don't even know how to describe it right now. It is
something that I will never forget. I don't know how it happened. I don't know how Patty
got the puck, but he made a tremendous pass and I had to roof it in order to beat Eddie
Belfour. That is the only way we were going to beat him. After that everything was just a
big blur.

Q. What were you thinking about when you were sitting in the penalty box for two
minutes there?

JASON ARNOTT: Well, I don't want to tell you what I was thinking of the ref, but he was
letting things go the whole game, and I can see if it was maybe in the second or third
period, yeah, it might have been a penalty but the way he was letting things go, I didn't
think it was a penalty and to call that in overtime it was frustrating. I mean, when you
got so much on the line it is tough to deal with, and I didn't want to be the guy who was
turned to lose this thing for us and the guys pulled through, the PK and I just felt that
I had to go out and do something for taking that penalty.

Q. Jason, you had your -- how did it interrupt your flow after Sykora got hurt?

JASON ARNOTT: To see a player like that go down it is frustrating to see and our hearts
went out for him. He has been one of the hearts and souls on our line. He has contributed
so much for us and to see him get carried off like that it was tough to see. Especially
for Patty, they are so close together and our line is so close, we came in after the
period and Patty and I looked at each other and said: We got to do this for our boy, and
fortunately it worked out for the best for us, and no question about it, that goal was for
him.

Q. Did you give one of those speeches in the room that I took the penalty; if you guys
kill it, I will score?

JASON ARNOTT: Well, I didn't really know what to say. I didn't want my teammates to
jump on me. I think that they knew that I was -- it was a bad penalty to take at that time
and I had to prove it to myself to go out and chip in as much as I could. When I came in,
I kind of said it was a bad penalty and kill it off for me, boys, and we will see what
happens from there.

Q. A couple of days ago you also got injured out on the ice. Can you tell us now how
bad you were hurting?

JASON ARNOTT: Well, all the injuries go away now. I mean, all the teeth that I have
lost; all the bumps and bruises, the black eyes, it makes it all sweet right now. It was a
tough series, a tough Playoffs and you know, I knew what Sykie was going through when he
went off the ice.

Q. Did you have trouble sleeping that night and did you have headaches?

JASON ARNOTT: Yeah, I had headaches, you know, when you get hit like that, it is tough
to come back from. Through the next game it was rough. I was a little hazy, but there
wasn't anything that was going to stop me from playing in these playoffs, so I was going
to go through a brick wall if I had to play, nothing was going to keep me out.

Q. I was just wondering any plan to take the Cup to the hospital for Petr?

JASON ARNOTT: Well, definitely if he still is there, we are definitely taking it there.
I will take it there myself if I have to. You know, it is tough to see a player go out and
he can't be here to celebrate with us, hopefully he is watching this or he can watch it,
and we are definitely going to make him a part of it and go to him.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT