CANON GREATER HARTFORD OPEN
July 1, 2000
Edward Fryatt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








EDWARD FRYATT: I'm excited, obviously and have a great opportunity in front of me
tomorrow. I'm not going to get ahead of myself or think too highly of myself, because I
really haven't hit it that great, but I've just kind of gotten it around and kept the ball
in play. So, looking forward to tomorrow. And today was a good day, and the fact that I
didn't make any bogeys. You know, whenever I've done that, I've made dad happy. 

Q. Are you happy, was it all of your birdies, just the way you were striking the ball
at the pin today?

EDWARD FRYATT: Really, I don't mean to say this, but I haven't hit the ball that great.
In fact, every tee shot I get up over, I'm wondering, "Well, where is this
going?" And somehow I've kept the ball in the fairway a little bit. I've played with
my putting a lot, and that's pretty much been what's got me to this point. You know,
hopefully if I can keep putting well tomorrow, that's a great equalizer and carry me on to
a good finish, if not a win.

Q. Is it any tougher teeing off late in a day like this when you're already seeing the
scores go low?

EDWARD FRYATT: No, I really didn't even get up -- didn't get out of bed until 10:00,
10:30. My brother drove up from Doylestown, Pennsylvania; so that was nice of him. This is
kind of a nice, special week for me because this is the one year anniversary of when I won
on the Nike Tour, too. Seems like a little bit of dejavu because when I won in Hershey, he
drove up; again, with his wife and two girls and watched me to go on and win there. So
we'll just see what happens tomorrow and just try and enjoy the week. 

Q. Are you comfortable with where you sit in relation to Mark?

EDWARD FRYATT: I wish I was Mark and Mark was me. He's obviously playing really well,
and it's going to take a really good score to try and catch him tomorrow and if he gets
off and plays the same way he did today, it's probably going to be impossible. I'm just
going to go out there and do what I can do and not worry about that, and don't even really
look at the board that much. It's not -- like I said, it's not like I'm hitting it right
down the flag at every shot. So I'm going to try and keep the ball in front of me and give
myself as many opportunities, even from 30 and 40 feet; that's just what I've got to
strike from the golf course, and wait for good numbers to come around where I feel
comfortable with the clubs I'm hitting into it and then attack from there, but for the
most part I pretty much played defensively and just trying to keep the ball on the fat
sides of the green and give myself many putts. And like the first two days, Thursday and
Friday, I rolled a lot of those putts in today. I happened to roll a couple of those in.
And I birdied both of the par 5s. Got it up around the green in two and chipped it up
close, and made the day easy. So, you know, just see what happens tomorrow, I may find
something on the range. I've been searching for the last few days to find a key thought,
but it hasn't come to me just yet, but I've been doing all right with that. If I find it
on the range, and hopefully I can take it into Sunday, that would be great. 

Q. What was your best previous position?

EDWARD FRYATT: I think I may have been just barely in the Top-10 going into the final
round at MCI. It's not -- I mean, for me, it's -- I'm not saying this in a bad way. It's
not like this is unfamiliar territory. I've been doing a lot of this kind of stuff out in
Asia, and I know it is a completely different -- I'm not trying too say it's the same
stage or anything, but it's the same feelings. You're going to get the nervousness on the
first tee, a few butterflies and light club on the first few shots. And once you settle
in, the same things are happening. And obviously the courses are different and it's going
to be a lot more difficult out there tomorrow, but the same things that carried me through
over there, I'm going to be trying to do tomorrow. And that's go out there and keep myself
slowed down and not run to the balls and just take my time and enjoy the moment and keep
myself breathing and not let too much nervous anxiety get in me. Those thoughts of what
I've done before, hopefully, it will carry me through to a good day tomorrow. 

Q. How many times did you win over there?

EDWARD FRYATT: I won five times in Asia and one time on the Nike Tour. You know, no
matter where you're at, winning is still the same feeling and nervousness that comes along
with it, pretty much the same. But obviously out here, there's a lot more money, and a lot
more good things that can come along with it. So, you know, Mark can be tough to catch.
He's playing some great golf, and it's fun to hear the crowds behind us, to roar that loud
and get behind him. Just trying to take care of myself tomorrow. 

Q. (Inaudible). 

EDWARD FRYATT: It's great, but it just kind of shows, for me, it's more of a situation
where I'm not getting frustrated with myself and at ease with myself and the little bit of
experience that I have is starting to pay off. And I'm not mature, but the little bit of
maturity that I have is going a long way this week, where before I'd be frustrated every
shot that's not hit right on line. It's just like, "Hey, that's the way it goes,
let's keep moving forward." It's been a nice, calming week. Whether I have that next
week or the rest of the year, I can't promise that at all. It's just been a nice, calm
week. 

Q. Have you set any goals this year?

EDWARD FRYATT: Well, I think everybody who comes out of the Q-school or off the BUY.COM
TOUR is, you know, first and foremost goal is to stay out here. And from there, you'd like
to obviously win one or maybe get into the Top-70, because that enables you to pick and
choose your schedule a little bit easier, get into the Invitational. Once that I've sewed
up my card, the goal to get into the Top-70 and maybe win, if things go really well, then
try and get into the Top-30. But goals, you only achieve these goals by just doing small
things, and that's working hard, and hopefully working on the right things and keeping the
ball in play and hitting a lot of fairways and greens. And it just comes back to the
cliche of one shot at a time, and if you can keep the ball in the fairways out here, you
really can't hurt yourself. If you can do that and hit a lot of greens, and top of it make
a few putts, which has happened this week, you get yourself in a position like this. And
then the goals fall right in line with what you're doing. 

EDWARD FRYATT: On 1, hit a driver and a pitching wedge in there about -- just under 30
feet just underneath the hole; again, in the fat side of the green and rolled that in and
kind of settled me in. Parred 2. Parred 3. Parred 4. Parred 5. 6, hit a driver up the
right side, just laid it just short of the green with a 3-iron. Chipped it up to about two
feet and made my putt there for birdie. 9, was actually I made par there, but it was a big
hole because I had driven it left and then hit it short, left of the green and chipped it
up to about six feet and made the putt and kept the momentum going on the back side.
Birdied 13 the par 5. Hit a driver in the fairway there. And then hit a 3-iron in there
about, maybe, 20 feet for eagle. Probably my best shot of the day and hit the putt dead on
line. Just came up short about a foot and tapped that in. Then on 15, hit 2-iron off the
tee and chipped it up there about 15 to 18 feet and rolled that one and parred out from
there. Nothing special. Just happened to throw a few birdies in there with a bunch of
pars. 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT