PILOT PEN INTERNATIONAL
August 26, 1998
Julie Halard-Decugis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Tell us a little bit about the match. Tell us what was working for you today.

JULIE HALARD-DECUGIS: Well, I always have some good matches against Arantxa. I beat her
three times before this match. Well, I like her game and I know I can win today. Well, it
is a good preparation for the US Open because I needed to win some matches to be more
confident for next week, and well, I think to play -- I was very concentrated and going
for my shots and to play like I play before against her. But, this is the first time I
beat her in two sets, so I am happy with my win today.

Q. What were you thinking when you were down 5-2 in the first set?

JULIE HALARD-DECUGIS: Well, nothing special. I was making some mistakes in the
beginning. So it was -- she was not making winners. It was my -- she just played her game
like running everywhere and putting the ball in, but I was making the mistakes. I just
tried to put pressure, to be aggressive at the right moment, and to be patient sometimes,
and to go at the net at the right time. I tried to mix a lot, slices and, how do you say
-- sometimes I was playing slowly and sometimes quicker, and I tried to change the rhythm.

Q. It seemed after that call that you got upset with, the call you thought was out, you
won almost every point at that point. Did that get you more focused?

JULIE HALARD-DECUGIS: Yes, sometimes that makes me wake up from the match. Sometimes I
need some -- to be a little bit more aggressive and it was -- not too much, but it was
good for me this time.

Q. You came in the tournament, you lost six of your last seven matches. Did you feel,
even though you were losing, you could come in here and have the impact that you have --
what--

JULIE HALARD-DECUGIS: I won one match in L.A. against ^ Kimberly Po. I played Fed Cup,
the semifinal - Martina Hingis, then I played Steffi Graf first round San Diego. I won
against Po, and I lost to Lindsay Davenport, and then in Montreal I have two matchpoints
against a qualifier, Amy Frazer. So, I was not lucky after the draw, and this time I just
tried to stay the same and play my game, and I have a tough match first round Sawamatsu. I
played this match good today because I have to fight very much, and I find my game, and
today I feel much better against Arantxa.

Q. You did a lot of running out there. It was very hot and humid. Did you start feeling
that toward the end of the match at all? Did the weather have any effect on you?

JULIE HALARD-DECUGIS: I was okay. Very humid, but not that hot, not like during the
day. But very, very humid and it was not easy at the end because of the bugs.

Q. Were they biting?

JULIE HALARD-DECUGIS: No, but there was so many going to the eyes and mouth and
everywhere, and it was difficult to play. We were into the match. It was tough to stop the
match for that. Well, I was winning so I wanted to finish.

Q. At what point of the match, did the bugs start bothering you?

JULIE HALARD-DECUGIS: I think it was the second set, like middle of the second set,
something like this.

Q. Have you ever played a match with so many bugs on the court like that?

JULIE HALARD-DECUGIS: No. First time. Sometime big things are on the court, but not so
many. It was unbelievable today. I don't know why.

Q. Talk about the progress you have made this year. Looking at your ranking close to
300 not that long ago. You seem to be making quite -- having a good year for yourself.

JULIE HALARD-DECUGIS: I was injured for more than one year, and I just start the year
with no ranking because I was too long away from the Tour, and I have a special ranking,
No. 15 in the world. That was my ranking when I left the Tour. I was pretty happy with the
way I played since the beginning of the year because it was difficult for me because it
was like almost 18 months I didn't play matches. I was very happy about the way I played.
I have some good wins. I was runner-up in Strasbourg and I won Rosmalen. First tournament
I won on grass. Now I won a tournament on every surface. I have some good wins here, so,
hopefully I will come back to my best ranking.

Q. Are you surprised how well and how quickly you came back?

JULIE HALARD-DECUGIS: Well, yes and no because I was -- I never know when I will come
back on the Tour and I was supposed to come back much more earlier and I was always
focused of playing two months and so I keep -- with I couldn't run because of my knee, but
I did some physical training. I did other things too, but I was prepared -- physically I
was maybe much more prepared than before. I work a lot and here my physical trainer came,
so I am pretty happy for him I won today.

Q. Steffi Graf has been talking about how it is difficult for her to focus and find
consistency after being away for so long. You don't seem to have too much of a problem.

JULIE HALARD-DECUGIS: For sure at the beginning of the year I needed some matches
because I won a few matches, but it was so tough to get the rhythm to play everyday and to
have singles, doubles, and you play one good match and then it is difficult to focus all
the time. Sometimes you give some points because you are not into the match. Sometimes you
didn't know how to play the good points. Well, beginning you need some matches. That is
why -- you can practice a lot. It is never the same thing. You get so tense because you
didn't play for a long time so you play one good match and the other day you are --
injuries everywhere; you are so sore. Then you get the rhythm and get used to play. If she
is still playing some tournaments, some tournaments one day she will come back for sure,
she will win a tournament and then she will get the rhythm like before. She needs just
some time more. Me, after five months, I get used to it.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT