STATE FARM EVERT CUP
March 11, 1996
Julie Halard-Decugis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Did you feel like you lost track a little bit in the first
set when you got broken, when your serve got broken? You lost
track of the match. You were sort of playing her pretty even and
then you got broken in that 6th game. Was that a bit of a setback
for you?

JULIE HALARD-DECUGIS: I think I had some opportunities at the
first set to make the difference a little bit. I have some breakpoints,
even in the first game; in the 7th game I was 40-Love. And I didn't
get the chance to lead in the first set and then she -- she is
a tough player and she puts a lot of intensity when she is playing
and that is maybe the difference. At some important points I didn't
make the point or she make some good winners and even the second
set I was leading 4-1 and I think when I served for five -- at
4-2, she makes unbelievable backhand down the line when I was
going serve and volley and she -- even at 5-4, I have a chance
on her serve for 30-40, but I missed a volley. I didn't finish
with my smash and then I missed the volley, so it just a few points,
but it is still there. But I think I was pretty happy by the way
I played and it was -- two sets were tight, I figured if I continue
to play like this, maybe one day I will get the opportunity.

Q. What is your explanation for you playing that much more
consistent than the years before?

JULIE HALARD-DECUGIS: Well, two years ago I played pretty good
year and then it was only last year I didn't play that good, but
I think we have a good break at the end of 1994 and then we tried
to play a little bit differently and to be more aggressive and
play more for my game and well, I have some good weeks this year
and I am more confident and I am happy with playing tennis, just
good tennis and I want to continue playing like this and I feel
my attitude is a bit better than last year.

Q. Before the match did you really -- okay, you walk on court
trying to win, but was there more belief than ever to have a good
chance?

JULIE HALARD-DECUGIS: Yes, and I feel more my concentration through
the match is better than before and even my intensity of play
because maybe before in the few games I didn't play a few games
or some points and now I am more into the match and I have to
continue in this way because when you play No. 1 player, you have
to play your game more and every point and you can't let your
chance for her to come back like in the second set or even the
second set, so just a few points that make the difference now.


Q. Especially the first set, there were some close decisions
by the lineman that were not in your favor. Was that a factor?
Did you get upset?

JULIE HALARD-DECUGIS: Every match you have a few mistakes on both
sides, so you have to play with the umpires. But you are disappointed
if it is not for you, but it is in every match you have a few
mistakes. It is like this and it is difficult with the umpire
every time with the close lines. So it is tennis. 

Q. It seems like there was a point in the first set -- 'til
this point you were playing very well; then you got a little upset
and you lost yourself.

JULIE HALARD-DECUGIS: Yes, but Steffi is a good player, so it
is difficult if you are losing one or two points or making one
or two mistakes, it is difficult then because she is right there
and she makes a lot of pressure when she is playing, so it is
difficult to stay at this level during all the match, but I think
I was pretty happy today, but I would like to have played a third
set, but--

Q. Did you get a little nervous serving at 4-2 in the second
because you hit two doublefaults in that game and got broken.
That was your first doublefaults of the match.

JULIE HALARD-DECUGIS: Yeah, I made two doublefaults.

Q. Was it nerves or did you just lose rhythm a little bit or
what --

JULIE HALARD-DECUGIS: Yeah, it was -- I was thinking more about
receipt; than my serve. That is, in a way, what I have to improve
too, be more confident about my serving and about me and to think
about what is going to do, the other ones. But otherwise, during
the play, I was playing good and trying to play my game and I
think it was good play.

Q. How would you assess Steffi's play after her three month
break?

JULIE HALARD-DECUGIS: Yeah, but I think last year too she was
not playing a lot and I think she win a lot of tournaments and
she win three Grand Slams, so I think it doesn't make a big difference
with her when she is not playing a lot and she is playing very
good and I think she wants to play and she is happy to be on the
court, so sometimes it is better not to play too much tennis,
so... I think today she was playing a good match because on the
important points she was here and she made some good winners,
so, I was impressed by the points she makes like 4-2 with her
backhand and she was very -- she was confident today too.

Q. Julie, you seem to be becoming a really top player at the
age of 25. How do you account for that? That is unusual.

JULIE HALARD-DECUGIS: It depends on the player, I think, you know,
that some players that get very good early and some better, later,
and I feel even in the men you have some players like Thomas,
he won Roland Garros. Even with the women, even it is a little
bit earlier, but I think you be good later, even at 25. 

Q. You seem like you play a lot like Agassi. You camp right
on the baseline; you are standing right on top of the baseline.
Did you study him in any way?

JULIE HALARD-DECUGIS: Yes -- well, sometimes I am looking for
-- I am looking at the men playing. I think you can learn a lot
too, but, well, first of all, it was my game, but maybe it looked
like a little bit the same, but he was No. 1. I was not.

Q. What do you think is the main difference between a player
at Steffi's level and a player at your level; you are playing
very well, but is there something beside the game, maybe something
psychological that is the difference?

JULIE HALARD-DECUGIS: Between Steffi and me? It is more, maybe,
the intensity of the match, the consistency in the match. I think
it is not really with the shots that is the big difference, it
is more with the concentration and the confidence she has got.
But she is a tough player because she is always -- everyday she
is playing like this and -- well, it is not easy.

End of FastScripts........            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT