ICC WOMEN'S WORLD T20
February 27, 2020
Fargana Hoque Pinky
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Australia - 189/1, Bangladesh - 103/9
Q. This was Bangladesh's first game against Australia in any format. How did that compare facing that bowling attack to other attacks you've faced in your career?
FARGANA HOQUE PINKY: Yeah, Australians are the current world champions, and it is, of course, from our aspect, it was the first match ever. So it was tough to face the Australian bowling. But after having the first match, this will give us a bit of experience how to handle this situation, and of course in this condition, which is very new to us.
Q. Are these the sort of teams you need to play more often to help you get better?
FARGANA HOQUE PINKY: Yes. It's a bit unfortunate for us that we do not play with the top class teams often, but I believe that if we could get the chance to play regularly with the top teams, our cricket will improve, and our girls will improve accordingly, and we can understand how to cope with such kind of bowling attack, all such kind of bats, attacking the batsmen of the quality that the Australian team had.
Q. A number of catches went down today. How disappointed were you with the team's fielding?
FARGANA HOQUE PINKY: Yes, it would have been better if we could keep those catches, and in that case, we could keep them to 160 or so, but definitely we need to improve our fielding and we need to keep all those catches in the match, and we are looking forward for the next match to rectify ourselves and to go for good fielding and keeping those crucial catches.
Q. You built a nice partnership with Nigar there to get over 50. I think it was Bangladesh's second 50 partnership at the T20 World Cup. Does that show the way for your teammates in terms of building a partnership and being patient?
FARGANA HOQUE PINKY: Yes, in our team meeting that was discussed to build up the partnership during the match, and I tried to follow that instruction, and I tried to play ball by ball and building a partnership with Joty. As per plan, it was my intention to build up any sort of partnership with any of our co-players, so I tried, and I hope that other players will also try to do that in our next couple of matches.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT