PLAYSTATION FIESTA BOWL: PENN STATE VS WASHINGTON
December 26, 2017
Brendan Mahon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BRENDAN MAHON: Absolutely, I'm always a smiling, always-trying-to-have-fun kind of guy.  Coach Rahne and those kind of guys have really made it apparent that live in the moment.  This is a bowl game.  It's a great -- it's such an amazing opportunity to be here.
But when it's time to have fun, go out and have a good time.  Go out do the Topgolf and all that, and be in the moment for that.  But when it comes time to be here for practice, it's time to practice, time to put the preparation in, because at the end of the week you want this bowl game to be topped off with a win and nothing else because that's what we came here to do.
Q. What stands out to you in Washington, and how do you prepare for it?
BRENDAN MAHON: Big, athletic.  Great players.  They're great up front.  They're a great defense.  Like I said, they're a little bit of everything.  We're excited.  We've been preparing really hard for them, the scheme, and just as an entire offensive line.  And their front seven is amazing.
They're a great team.  I'm not going to take anything away from them.  Over the past couple of weeks we've been prepping really hard.  And I think we have a great game plan down to kind of get the ball rolling, because it's going to start up front.
And as one of the leaders of the offensive line I know that, and we know that as we get the game start, and then it starts with us.  And we're willing to put that burden on our back and kind of take it to wherever we need to be.
Q. (Inaudible)?
BRENDAN MAHON: Easy.  No, words can't describe having him back.  Saquon Barkley and Trace McSorley, blocking for those two guys over the past two, three years has been a blessing.
They've really -- they can make a little run go big really fast.  And when you see 2-6 or No. 9 up in the open field you know it's going into the end zone and that's an even better feeling.
Q. You mentioned growing as a unit.  One of the guys we covered in high school was Connor McGovern.  How has he come along in the two years he's been there, started as a true freshman.  Not too many linemen --
BRENDAN MAHON: I started next to Connor at right tackle last year when he was a right guard.  From last year to this year, I've moved to right guard, and he's now the center.
He's really stepped into that role.  And there's a leadership role there at center.  And he's been doing a fantastic job.  He puts so much time into it and studying film and in the weight room.  He's a strong kid.  I'm really excited for him for the next two years here and I know the sky's the limit for him.
Q. You have Saquon over there.  He has a big decision to make.  Let him do that on his own terms.  But when somebody asks you 10, 15 years from now what was it like to block for a guy like that, are you going to think about his great skills or the type of person he is?
BRENDAN MAHON: Both.  Absolutely.  I like to say he's the best on the field and he's even better off the field.  And he's a great guy.  Real caring.  And just a great guy to have around, great guy to have in your locker room, and even greater guy back to be able to block for.
And the experience as an offensive lineman to have a guy like that in the backfield, and I love to say it, but when you see 2-6 in the open field as an O lineman in front of you, you know he's going to the house.  So he's made our lives a lot easier, and we're very thankful to have him on the field and off.
Q. When you look at the successes and even some of the failures over the years, and you take a look at the team you're going to be playing, do you feel they're that vastly different from anybody you've played, or do they stand out as like some of the teams you've played?
BRENDAN MAHON: Sure.  You know, I think they're definitely a little different style than the typical Big Ten.  But there's a lot of the same aspects that they bring to the table.
It's definitely a mix of different teams we've played.  And their defensive line is incredible.  And they do a great job.  And we've prepared over the past couple of weeks for what they're going to throw at us and as an offensive line and I know as a team we're excited for Saturday to come.
Q. Does it change how you prepare?
BRENDAN MAHON: I'd like to say no.  But when you have higher caliber opponents, you like to reassure yourself with some extra film and breakdowns and definitely going through some things with a little more of a fine-tooth comb.  I think we've done a fantastic job in our preparation.  And as we continue to prepare this week, I think we're going to be ready for Saturday when it comes because we know as an offensive line it starts up front.
Q. What would you say the biggest or best thing so far over the past week has been in preparation for this?
BRENDAN MAHON: I think the big thing is we got here nice and early and kind of got used to the time change and kind of hang out and kind of enjoy the area for the past two days.  And now today get rolling into practice and kind of putting the foot on the pedal and getting ready to go.
Q. Do you think adjusting to the Arizona cold is going to be a big thing?
BRENDAN MAHON: Yeah, it's going to be such a big deal (chuckling).  We've only -- it was 30 when we left.  It's 65, 70 now, and I don't hear anyone complaining.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT