PENN STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 1, 2016
Brendan Mahon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions for Brendan.
Q. This offense seems to have come a long way in a short period of time.  Do you think there's been a turning point?  What has been the biggest change in that time period?
BRENDAN MAHON: I don't think there's been a big turning point.  I think just this team and everyone is kind of buying in, everyone is clicking.  The coaches, the players, everyone is gelling, it's a family.  We're working really hard.  Success keeps coming.
We're just going to keep working hard week-to-week and preparing for our opponents like we've been preparing, and hoping the outcome is what we'd like to see.
Q. Scouting services talk pretty high about you, Pro Football Focus had you as the best tackle in the country after the Ohio State game.  Do you pay attention to things like that?
BRENDAN MAHON: I mean, a little bit.  It's nice as an offensive lineman once in a while to get commended for your efforts.  The main goal is to win football games, to do whatever I have to do to win for this team, put the team in the best spot it can be to win.
So I'm just doing whatever the team needs me to do.  Do my job, win football games.
Q. James Franklin said last season you asked to be moved to tackle, to go into that opposition.  Given you played nine positions on offense, what made you want to make that switch?  Was there a moment where you thought you were comfortable?
BRENDAN MAHON: I pretty much left it open with the coaches, putting me wherever they needed me to go, trying to get the team, put the team in the best situation it could be.
So left tackle, right tackle, guard, center, wherever I need to go to help this team win I'll go.
Q. What have you seen specifically on film from Iowa and their front seven?  What do you need to do as a line to be successful as you have been?
BRENDAN MAHON: Iowa is a very physical football team.  They have great guys up front, linebackers.  They're a solid team all around.
All week we're going to work on being physical, playing hard, just preparing the best we can.
Q. You were 16 the last time there was an election.  Are you looking forward to voting?
BRENDAN MAHON: I can't really answer that question.  I'm just trying to focus on football obviously, beating Iowa.  Sorry I couldn't be more help.
Q. Can you trace your development this year.  Early in the season there were some big sacks.  It really seems like the line and you have developed and grown up this year.  What are some of the things you really zeroed in on?
BRENDAN MAHON: I think the biggest change this year, I'm sure you've all noticed from how we've been playing, everyone has really bought in and gelled.  That all has to do with Coach Limegrover and everything he's brought to the table.  He believes in all of us, we believe in him.  There's a trust between all of us and him.
Everything he says, we take it and run with it and focus with it that week and really respect what he has to say.
Q. You may need to take a few moments to think of an answer.  Who had the best costume on the football team for Halloween?
BRENDAN MAHON: I have to think.  I can't really answer that.  Sorry.
Q. How did you end up at Penn State?  What made you want to come here?
BRENDAN MAHON: Penn State, this place, this atmosphere, kind of speaks for itself.  I remember my first visit here, driving over, coming from New Jersey.  So Route 80.  I can't really remember that road there.  Coming over the hill, you see Beaver Stadium.  It takes a moment to set in.  I was like, Wow, that place is huge.  That would be amazing to play in front of all those people.
I fell in love with the atmosphere here and all the fans and everything.  It's just one big family, community.  Even though I was recruited and committed to Coach O'Brien, I fell in love with this place for a lot more than just the coaches.  There's so much this place has to offer with school and football, as a community as a whole.
I'm very happy with where we are.  The new coaches, I love all the new coaches, Coach Limegrover, Coach Moor, Coach Franklin.  I think this year we've really seen a big step from all of us because we've all become close and started trusting each other.
It is a family now.  This team is mostly successful because of our work ethic and how much we believe in each other.
Q. What is it about Coach Limegrover's style that you have bought into this year that maybe hasn't happened in the past?
BRENDAN MAHON: I think the biggest thing with Coach Limegrover is how much he truly cares for all of us.  You really feel like almost a dad, somebody who really cares about your well-being, not only on the field but off the field, as well.
Q. You were saying the closeness.  When did you notice this team was a little different?  At what point did you realize this was a group that was going to move this thing along?
BRENDAN MAHON: Definitely during camp this year I think was the biggest notice.  Everyone, their whole attitude, how they approached things, was completely different.
I think Coach Franklin, all the coaches, they really were working on that the past couple years, the whole family and trust thing.  It took a little while for everyone to buy in, to be honest.
Now that everyone has bought in, we can completely trust each other, we're working hard, we hold a standard for each other, it's obviously showing on Saturdays.  Let's hope it keeps up.
Q. It's hard for people to buy in.  James has spoken about that before.  Why do you think that was?  There's something you do where you hug each other.  I'm sure that was a little different, right?
BRENDAN MAHON: I think the biggest thing was people -- actually, when you're being recruited, it's a me, me, me thing.  When you get here, it takes people a little while to realize it's a team, you're not just being recruited to be recruited.  It's a team game.
To come in here and be a high recruit, it's a different step taking from being recruited to being coached now.  I think that takes some time for some people.  Some of the older guys are stepping up as leaders, helping transition younger guys into a family and molding it into something that it hasn't been in the past.
Q. Is it eye-opening when you're a highly recruited guy, then a new staff comes in and it's square one?  Is there a little I don't want to say skepticism, but maybe you're questioning yourself?
BRENDAN MAHON: There's not much uncertainty.  It just changed.  As humans, I don't think everyone feels the change the same.  Coach O'Brien and Coach Franklin are polar opposites.  I obviously loved Coach O'Brien.  The change was something I wasn't familiar with.  That turned out to be an extreme positive at this point.
It's just that transition period.  I think all programs deal with it.  I think it's nice to finally see all of us finally turning it into a positive, buying in, and we're winning football games.
Q. You talked about the buy-in with Coach Limegrover.  How about physically?  Was there anything you changed with your footwork early in the season?
BRENDAN MAHON: I can't really say I really changed anything.  I kind of changed my mentality.  I think we all changed our mentality, started seeing Saturdays as more fun, enjoying ourselves and playing the game we love instead of playing tense on Saturday, let loose, trust our preparation all week, just less loose on Saturdays and play our game.
Q. From day one Saquon has talked about the line, protection.  What does it mean to have his confidence?
BRENDAN MAHON: I've said in previous interviews, Saquon, you look down in space, you see him, you kind of know what the end result is going to be.  Having a guy like that behind you that is an eraser, he can erase mistakes that happened up front, turn it into a game.  That for the whole offensive line is a huge confidence booster on Saturdays when we're lining up against teams like Iowa, Ohio State and such.
Like I said, Saquon gives a lot to this football team and this family we have here.  We kind of bounce off of each other.  His success and our success go hand-in-hand.
Q. Defensive schemes.  You face a lot of different varieties.  Are there ones you feel like maybe the offensive line matches up better against than others or is it something different from scheme alone?
BRENDAN MAHON: It's definitely different from scheme alone.  Obviously we prepare week for week for whatever team has defensively, their defensive scheme towards us.  It's just preparation each week to what we're going to see on Saturdays.
Q. They say you're your toughest critic.  What do you do when you're in the film room?  Watch it once?  Beat yourself up over it?
BRENDAN MAHON: Do you forget anything over here (laughter)?
Obviously, Sunday come in and watch the film, critique yourself, learn from that so it doesn't happen again.  Knock on wood, it hasn't happened since, so let's keep the head up.
The whole offensive line does that, really goes into film with an open mind and learning from it, not taking it personally, Coach Limegrover's coaching points, go into next week and take it into practice.
Q. Barkley's 81-yarder, how often do you watch that?
BRENDAN MAHON: There's definitely ones that make up for the not-so-good plays.  Since you remember it perfectly, the two weeks in a row.  But definitely watch a guy like Saquon making big, long touchdowns.  Any touchdown, it kind of makes up for all the hard work you put in, some of the mistakes you made.  It's nice to see and watch on Sundays, definitely.
Q. (Question regarding pass protection.)
BRENDAN MAHON: Definitely he's become a lot more confident in his play, run and pass game, just being comfortable in there is a big positive and helps out a lot on Saturdays.
THE MODERATOR: Thanks, Brendan.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT