KIA CLASSIC
March 30, 2019
Thidapa Suwannapura
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How do you feel heading into the weekend?  Two off the lead, but it's anybody's game out there.  How do you feel?
THIDAPA SUWANNAPURA: I feel like everybody can have a good day and win tomorrow.  I mean, obviously I had a good day today.  Just a little bit of putting on the lip and everything.  A little bit of this and that.
But my score, I still hit solid shots, had a solid day.  Just keep doing, keep trying, and try to make birdie and find my birdie tomorrow.
Q. So today you were playing in the last group; tomorrow looks like you'll be in the next to last group.  Which do you think you prefer?
THIDAPA SUWANNAPURA: I would like to be chasing.
Q. Yeah?
THIDAPA SUWANNAPURA: Yeah.  I feel like if you see the leaderboard and you see like I'm one or two off, I feel like, Oh, it's motivating me to making birdie, keep making birdie, see what's going to happen.
In the same time, you don't want to look at the leaderboard too much.  You just want to play your own game and enjoy tomorrow, and hopefully a lot of birdie comes.
Q. We've had great weather, great fans here.  What has this whole week experience been like for you so far?
THIDAPA SUWANNAPURA: It's good.  I like the weather here and there is a restaurant that I like to go and always go.  There is a smoothie place that I been there for four years in a row.  I just walk in there and like, Hi, I'm back.  They know exactly what I want to order.  It's fun.
There is a lot of good food here and a lot of people watching.
Q. What's the name of the restaurant?
THIDAPA SUWANNAPURA: TNL Boba.  Like a fresh fruit smoothie.  Acai and blueberries is what I always get.
Q. You'll probably be chasing Inbee and Nasa tomorrow.  You're in the same sentence as Hall of Famer Inbee Park.  What does that mean to you?
THIDAPA SUWANNAPURA: I mean, it's good.  Today I play behind her and see she make -- I'm not sure.  She might make birdie on 18.
Q. Uh-huh.
THIDAPA SUWANNAPURA: I'm like, oh, that's so cool.  I can see.  Tomorrow be chasing Inbee, and we'll see what's going on and what happened.
I'll do my best tomorrow and just do my best.
Q. And you feel like your game is peaking as we head into the major next week, ANA?
THIDAPA SUWANNAPURA: Yeah, especially since last week I feel like my game is getting better.  Short game and putting and new irons; I feel like it's getting better.  Had more chance for birdie and attack the pin more.  Not to worry about making bogey or try to save up and down too much.
Yeah, just enjoy it out there.  Have a birdie chance and made it or not, just that hole, that day, that moment.
Q. What do you do now as you head into an evening where you wait for tomorrow?  What's your plan?
THIDAPA SUWANNAPURA: My plan is we were thinking about maybe go to Thai restaurant and have some Thai food.  Other than that, just go back to the hotel and then relax.  My caddie will be on the phone; I'll be like listen to music or watch some drama or play some game.  Just get my mind off golf and relax.
Q. What do you like to listen to and what are you watching?  Anything good?
THIDAPA SUWANNAPURA: Mostly Thai dramas.  Some funny one.  Don't want to be too stress.  Yeah, take my mind off.  Yeah, just enjoying everything around me and look in the positive sides.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT