OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 12, 2015
Thidapa Suwannapura
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So are you satisfied with the performance today?
THIDAPA SUWANNAPURA: Yeah, well, you know, the same thing, I was trying to finish my round because of pain, and today is not really like my day.  So it's just okay day for me.  But just try to hit it in the fairway and try to hit it on the green and have a chance and make birdie.  Just play shot by shot.
Q. So how do you feel about being second?
THIDAPA SUWANNAPURA: It's really good.  I did not expect to play this good because there's pain.  I'm really happy that I can keep the second place.
Q. Were you in a lot of pain today walking around?  How much pain?
THIDAPA SUWANNAPURA: Probably the same like yesterday, it's really pain when I hit and stuff.  When I finish my swing, it's like on one leg.
Q. And what did you think of Shanshan's performance?
THIDAPA SUWANNAPURA: Today, this week, she bring her game like every day.  Just hit it close, knock it in, hit it close, knock it in, or hit it close and miss a little bit.  But no bogey I guess today.  It's really good.
Q. Seven birdies in the last nine holes, have you ever played as well as you did on that back nine yesterday?
THIDAPA SUWANNAPURA: Well, I mean, it just happened really fast.  Just try to hit on the green and something happened, my putter just worked pretty good and see all the line.  I guess most of the ball that I put it on the green is a pretty good spot to make birdies.  So it's good for me.
Q. Given the injury problems that you have had over the past couple days and this week, looking back on the OMEGA Dubai Ladies Masters with great pride, I would imagine?
Q. Are you pleased with your performance this week in total given the injuries you've had?
THIDAPA SUWANNAPURA: Yeah, I'm really happy.  To be honest in the third round, maybe in the morning, I was thinking maybe I have to withdraw or something.  But I just try to hit and hit it, and my mom said, well, if it's too pain, then can't do anything.  But I just keep trying and told my caddie to finish the round.  The back nine was incredible and something happened, keep going.  Really happy with the round.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT