OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 11, 2015
Thidapa Suwannapura
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What got the run going from 13 when you made the birdie?  
THIDAPA SUWANNAPURA: The par 5 I guess, just I'm trying to hit it on the green on that one.  I don't know, today I just see the line and my caddie, Matt, he's my friend, and he can see the same thing as me.  Like, yeah, I like it, just knock it, and it's in.  I'm like, yay.  Just keep going.  It's not easy out there.  I'm not expect anything.  I'm just hitting balls and try to knock it on the green.  Just par is fine for me.   
 Q.  You already won once on the LET in India.  Do you think you can catch Shanshan and do it again?  
THIDAPA SUWANNAPURA: No, I don't think so.  I know she's pretty good and she hit it a hundred percent shot, and boom, boom, boom.  I'm just going to have fun tomorrow and try to finish my round again.   
 Q.  What's your status on the LPGA Tour?  
THIDAPA SUWANNAPURA: Because I have a pain from the middle of the year, the ranking is not very good, and I finished 20 in Evian, the major tournament.  So it's good enough for me to keep the Tour card.  I finished like 92 on the money ranking, so I got the Tour card.   
 Q.  So next year you'll be on the LPGA?  
THIDAPA SUWANNAPURA: Yeah.   
 Q.  So what's this problem that you've said for almost half a year, what's the doctor saying?  What will it take to get over the pain?  Does it need surgery, rest or physiotherapy?  What do you need to do?  
THIDAPA SUWANNAPURA: The thing is, right after I'm back to Thailand, I was going to hospital to do an MRI for the muscle and everything.  The doctor said there's nothing wrong, and I'm like, okay.   
Then I talked to the physio.  They say that my hip flexor here is really tight, so when they push it, it's not moving.  It's like dead.  It's like my muscle here is not working or not active.  She said I need to stretch here, work out more, because my hip is not stable.  So every time I hit, it's like this, and everything pulls together and it's pain.   
 Q.  So what's the recovery process?  Are you going to play with the pain?  
THIDAPA SUWANNAPURA: Well, I try to figure it out, like I'm trying to talk to a couple people about like work out and training the muscle and stretch.  It's really hard because everything here is like together and it pull everything; and this one weak, this one work; and this one weak, the other one work; and this one weak, this one work, and now here, it's pain.  It's kind of like compensate together like the whole thing.  So it's pretty hard to fix.   
 Q.  Is it a golf injury?  Is that where you got it?  
THIDAPA SUWANNAPURA: Yeah.   
 Q.  And do you get physio the night before a round or before a round or anything like that?  
THIDAPA SUWANNAPURA: Yeah, I just go to the physio yesterday and have like tape on my back.   
 Q.  You said you don't think you can catch Shanshan, but if you have the same sort of round tomorrow and she drops back a bit, it will get close.  You must have a bit of confidence that you could have a chance tomorrow.  
THIDAPA SUWANNAPURA: Maybe.  Well, we'll see.   
 Q.  Can you envisage her having a bad round because she's been so good for the past three days?  
THIDAPA SUWANNAPURA: I don't think so.  At least she's going to hit under par, at least.  I mean, Shanshan Feng.   
I don't know, today my putting was really good.  I had like 26 putts and like 15 greens.  That's pretty good.   
 Q.  Can you just go through the last six holes and what did you hit and how did you get the birdies?  
THIDAPA SUWANNAPURA: 13, I have like a five-yard putt and just knock it in.   
Pretty much almost the same distance next one, 14.  I hit it a little bit over the pin and five-yard putt, knock it in.   
On the par 3, same thing.   
On 16, maybe like eight-yard putt.   
17 is just one on the green, 2-putt for birdie.   
18 is like two-yard putt.   
 Q.  And before that, on the 12th hole or 11th hole, did you have a chance?  
THIDAPA SUWANNAPURA: I had birdie on No. 10.  And 11, I was hitting like at the pin a little bit over, so I just knocked for par.   
 Q.  How long was the putt?  
THIDAPA SUWANNAPURA: For 11?  Like 15 yards, like on the back pin position and the pin is in the middle.   
 Q.  And on 12?  
THIDAPA SUWANNAPURA: On 12, I hit it in the rough and knock it in front of the green and then chipped it and putt for par, like four-yard putt.   
 Q.  Are you looking forward to playing with Shanshan tomorrow, or is it because you're in a lot of pain, is that going to take away from it?  
THIDAPA SUWANNAPURA: It will be like a happy round tomorrow.  Try to finish it.   
 Q.  Have you played with her before?  
THIDAPA SUWANNAPURA: No, I've never played with her.   
 Q.  Your finishes here before --  
THIDAPA SUWANNAPURA: I always finish like Top-20.  This is my third time.  I like it, the fast greens.   
 Q.  What's your best round before this, 65?  
THIDAPA SUWANNAPURA: I think it's always 65, yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT