KIA CLASSIC
March 29, 2019
Thidapa Suwannapura
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Bogey-free opening 36 holes.  What's been working so well for you?  
THIDAPA SUWANNAPURA: Especially this week I change my new set of irons.  I did try a new ProV-1 X, so I change from the V one to X, and that give me more spin and more control.  I feel like I can attack the pin more and be able to have more chance to make birdie this week.   
 Q.  What difference have you seen in your new irons?  
THIDAPA SUWANNAPURA: I hit it easier, better, more spin, and I can attack the pin more.   
 Q.  You've also got a new clothing deal.  How has the partnership been with SwingDish?  
THIDAPA SUWANNAPURA: It's awesome.  A lot of people recognize me from far way away.  Oh, that's Jasmine.  She wear bright pink, and I got a lot of good feedback from people.  It's suits you.  Looks good on SwingDish.  It's good.   
 Q.  What parts of your game are you hoping to bring into the weekend?  
THIDAPA SUWANNAPURA: Same thing.  Like hitting the fairway and hit it close and hopefully make some birdies.   
Those green is not that easy, so just keep it that way, play solid, and hopefully keep making birdies.   
 Q.  What irons are you using now?  What were you using before?  
THIDAPA SUWANNAPURA: Before it was Callaway.  Now I'm using Srixon.   
 Q.  Why did you change?  
THIDAPA SUWANNAPURA: I been having a problem spinning the ball for many years, and since I played in Asia last year I feel like I need to do something about it.  Like because in Asia the course set up is way harder than in the U.S.  I feel like a lot of pin tuck in and I could not have any chance.  I don't have any chance to go at the pin or have a close birdie chance at all.   
I was talking to my caddie like, What should we do?  We got to do something.  We have to change and find something better and hopefully stop more.   
Last week Titelist come out and I did try the Pro V1 and Pro V1 X on TrackMan.  It did give my more spin on the X, so I just decide to change it last week and this week.  So far it's been better.  I hit it better.   
Distant is long.  The iron spin more.  And plus, like the iron from Srixon I feel like I hit it more solid and easier.   
So I feel comfortable to attack the pin more.   
 Q.  Is this the first week using all the new equipment or last week?  
THIDAPA SUWANNAPURA: Last week.  It's getting better because I tried to adjust it.  You know, from roll like 10, 15 yard to maybe like 3, 5 yard, it's a big different.   
We just try to adjust it.  This week just been working so far.   
 Q.  Can't complain about that?  
THIDAPA SUWANNAPURA: Yeah, I'm not complaining about that.  Putting is good, too.   
 Q.  So just your irons changed and your ball?  
THIDAPA SUWANNAPURA: Yeah, irons and ball.   
 Q.  Kind of the last year your career has exploded over here.  
THIDAPA SUWANNAPURA: I know.   
 Q.  How does it feel?  
THIDAPA SUWANNAPURA: I feel a lot more confidence and a lot more like easy on myself.  I feel like just go out there, enjoy the weather like this week, and just play my golf and try to attack the pin and just stay focused on my game.   
Yeah, don't even think have no bogey at all.  Just out there we had some pretty tough putt par -- you know, for par, but I made it, so it's awesome.  So far it's good.  I'm looking forward to the weekend.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT