NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 12, 2014
Dante Exum
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   I was talking to Quinn the other day.   He said it's interesting watching you from you playing in Australia, you didn't have to defend much against the smaller guys.   So they weren't expecting much defensively from you.   Now that seems to be your forte so far in the NBA. 
DANTE EXUM:   Yeah, I've definitely tried to take some steps, picking up my defense.   I knew with my length and my speed it's something that I could be very good at.   It's just something I've tried to work on. 

Q.   Offensively your shooting percentage is down right now.   Is that a little bit discouraging?   Are you just trying to do whatever you can right now to get the shots to fall? 
DANTE EXUM:   Yeah.   I know it's a long season.   There's going to be ups and downs.   Obviously I'm not shooting the ball well right now.   Just continue to keep shooting the ball how I have and staying confident with it and not shying away from it. 

Q.   What part of the offense do you feel comfortable in?   The passing, the running‑‑
DANTE EXUM:   Yeah, I think getting in the open court.   Trying to kick ahead to Gordon and just playing a more freelance game.   I think we work better like that.   Putting ourselves in those situations.   

Q.   Playing in Utah, not really used to it.   How are you doing it? 
DANTE EXUM:   Yeah, it's been an adjustment.   We play so many games, that you adjust really quick.   Changes from place to place.   Utah is known for its altitude; other places aren't.   So it's just about going to different places and adjusting as much as you can. 

Q.   What does it mean for you to be the first Australian involved in All‑Star Weekend? 
DANTE EXUM:   I didn't even know that.   It's, I guess, a cool honor.     I'll have Delly (Dellavedova) with me.   We can both enjoy that experience together. 

Q.   Are you guys planning on running any Aussie plays, the two of you during the game? 
DANTE EXUM:   I'm definitely going to look out for him.   Steve (Adams) is a good guy.   I talked to him a bit. 
I love being in this situation.   A good opportunity to grow and learn.   I definitely love to be here.   I'm still going to get a bit of rest when I get back. 

Q.   What do you like so far about the NBA the most? 
DANTE EXUM:   I think the teammates.   I don't know how it is with other teams, but the bond you have with some of the guys in the team, it's been different.   We travel a lot and always together.   It's a different type of bond. 

Q.   What do you miss about home the most at the moment? 
DANTE EXUM:   Definitely my family.   They haven't been over since the start of the season.   But, yeah‑‑

Q.   No one came over for the game? 
DANTE EXUM:   No. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT