ANA INSPIRATION
April 3, 2021
Charley Hull
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Charley, thanks for joining us.
 CHARLEY HULL:   No worries.  How are you?
 Q. Yeah, very good.  Thanks for joining us.  How are you?  And I just wonder how were feeling coming down the 18th there, because you had a couple of instances of serious bad luck on the final hole.
 CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, well I pushed my drive out a bit to the right, but I'm a bit thrown off by the tee shot because there is a new bunker added and I just can't quite get the visual on my line.
 And anyway, the bunkers are fine, but I was on a massive upslope can it was a bit fluffy; then I hit the bunker shot into the -- up near the green about 100 yards away, which isn't too bad.  It's usually flat, but it plugged.
 And then I hit a nice bunker shot out of the plugged lie to layup in the fairway, and then I was in a divot.  So it was not ideal coming into that green.
 And I hit it up there and got up and down, so it was a bogey but it could have been worse.
 Q. It was a real test of your composure, because that back nine was quite a battle for you.
 CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, it was.  Hit some nice shots into the greens but my driver was a little bit to the right.  I've actually been hitting my driver quite well this week, but I've managed to be hitting a fade.  So I can't get my head around seeing a yard fade instead of a few yard draw.
 And then I've blocked a couple in the back nine.  You don't want to miss them left on the back nine, so right is kind of the miss anyway.
 Q. So you're in the house at 7-under par.  Looks very much as though Patty is going to finish up 14-under.  What are your thoughts heading into the final round in this position?
 CHARLEY HULL:   Anything can happen around this golf course, as you see this morning.  I think Stacy was 8-under through about 13 holes, and so you can get a low one going.  So, yeah, I just want to go low tomorrow.
 Q. You do see birdies around this golf course probably better than anyone else in in the field.
 CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, I like making a few birdies round here, so hopefully make a few more tomorrow.
 Q. And your feelings just being on a major leaderboard at this stage must give you great heart.
 CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, I love majors.  They're my favorite events of the year.  I always get up for a major, so it's good to see my name on the leaderboard.  Hopefully I can push up there tomorrow.
 Q. How do you see the challenges tomorrow?  We've been talking a lot about the 18th hole and the way that it's been set up.  Do you envisage players potentially going for the green in two, looking for eagles tomorrow?
 CHARLEY HULL:   Oh, I went for it on the first day to that front left pin which probably hardly anyone went to.  So if I have a yardage in my hand, I'm going to go for it definitely.  So hopefully few more will go for it tomorrow as well, especially with the right pin.
 And you can potentially see a few eagles on it.
 Q. Heading to the range now are you or...
 CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, just going to hit a couple drives.  Hitting my irons well.  Just hit a few drivers and then go and chill.
 Q. And how do you spend the morning of the final round of a major when you're potentially in contention?
 CHARLEY HULL:   I don't really think about it, to be fair.  I just been getting up, watching a bit of the Science Channel on the TV, and --
 Q. Science Channel?
 CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah.  There has actually been some interesting stuff on there.  I been watching this -- I think it's some random stuff like mysteries, and, yeah, it's been keeping me occupied.
 Q. One other thing.  I don't know whether you've heard or not, Liverpool had a little win this evening.
 CHARLEY HULL:   That's good.  You know, I don't keep track over it, but that's a good mindset going into for tomorrow's round.
 Q. 3-nil against Arsenal.
 CHARLEY HULL:   Perfect.
 Q. An inspiration.
 CHARLEY HULL:   Yep, that is perfect.  That would be me.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT