OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 10, 2014
Charley Hull
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Well, that was pretty much just the start you were after.
CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, it was really good.   I'd say I really enjoyed it.   It was good to play with Gwladys.   I got off to a steady start.   I made a bogey in the four holes I started, but I made six birdies out of eight holes, so I was pretty happy with that.   Feel like I'm swinging it well now, touch wood, and just holing a few of them putts. 

Q.   Playing alongside Gwladys, your rival for it, how is the relationship out there?
CHARLEY HULL:   Fine.   It was good.   I like playing with Gwladys.   She keeps me calm, actually, just watching her make birdies.   She's a very steady player.   I quite enjoy that.   I like to just not really think about each other's games too much.   I just go out there and play.

Q.   Must be mentally keeping count, thinking it's not a birdie for Gwladys, going to have to respond on the next hole?
CHARLEY HULL:   Well, it's not really a match‑play tournament, is it.   Some people might think like that.   I was 1‑over through four holes and she was I think 2‑under or something through seven holes.   I finished 5‑under and she finished whatever she shot, I don't even know.   But yeah, I just play the golf course.

Q.   So you're looking forward to driving the sea plane tomorrow?
CHARLEY HULL:   Should be fun.   See how I go. 

Q.   Talk a bit more about your round.   You said you had 16 greens and only used driver once.   How is your 3‑wood going?
CHARLEY HULL:   Really good.   I'm hitting it on some holes to like 250 yards, so it's not too bad out there when you've got that going. 

Q.   No dad this week ‑‑
CHARLEY HULL:   This week I was looking at buildings‑‑ that's what I do sometimes.   Just try to take my mind off golf.   Just plan my Christmas outfits because I have a lot of Christmas parties to go to when I get back.

Q.   Your six birdies, tell us about the putts?
CHARLEY HULL:   A mixture, a few medium‑length, not really any very long ones.   Yeah, I was pretty happy with the way I performed out there today.   Especially with changing to left over right for about four months now, first time my coach has seat me putt left over right in a tournament, as well.   So it's good for him to do that, because he was the one who wanted me to change after the British Open.   Yeah, definitely happy with that. 

Q.   Putting is coming together now? 
CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, touch wood. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT