OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 13, 2014
Charley Hull
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  CHARLEY HULL:   I hit some great putts on the back nine.   Just didn't hole any‑‑ but it was quite tricky for me out there because I was hitting my irons so much further so it was hard to judge my distances, which is a bit annoying.   I usually hit my 8‑iron about 145 and I was hitting it about 175, 180 with 7‑iron, so it was tough today.  
   
 Q.   Just adrenaline?  
CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   For getting the Order of Merit?   
CHARLEY HULL:   Just feel like I got a lot stronger.   I've been doing fitness over the past few months.   Haven't done any fitness the past couple of days or weeks but I definitely feel a lot fitter now.  
   
 Q.   Can you tell us what it means to be Order of Merit winner?  
CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, it's really good.   It's good to win.   
   
 Q.   How does it compare to the win in Morocco?  
CHARLEY HULL:   Win in Morocco is definitely bigger, but winning the Order of Merit is a pretty good thing as well.  
   
 Q.   To follow up Rookie with Order of Merit, it's quite historic.   
CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, that's good.   I think I wanted to do that because you only got one chance to do that.   Yeah, I'm happy.  
   
 Q.   When did you start thinking about the Order of Merit title this week?   Were you thinking about it‑‑ was it on your mind today a bit?  
CHARLEY HULL:   It was, because Gwladys‑‑ she's a good player.   I didn't really know coming into this week.   Yeah, just the back nine today, just thought don't make any silly mistakes.   I doubled the first but got two birdies on the bounce back so pretty happy with myself there.  
   
 Q.   A strange start.   
CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, I went double, birdie, birdie, bogey, birdie.   So it was an interesting front nine.   But towards the end of the back nine, I really got the feeling with my woods off the tee.   I started feeling so much more confident.   Just working on getting a bit more width on my swing.   I definitely feel a lot more confident.   
   
 Q.   Were you looking at what Gwladys was posting at any stage?   
CHARLEY HULL:   No, I couldn't really see her.   
   
 Q.   What did Gary say?   When did he first say congratulations or well done?  
CHARLEY HULL:   Just on the putt on the 18th, just like you've got the whole of Dubai behind that pin.   Usually I'm a very good wedge player.   I try to keepa shallow divot, but I made sure I got a steep divot on the last just to get away from the water.   
   
 Q.   What now for you going forward now that you've done this?   
CHARLEY HULL:   I've got a couple days rest here in Dubai just with my sister on the beach, and then a few weeks off and then hopefully see if I can get in the first few events on the LPGA Tour.   
   
 Q.   Not going to touch a golf club for the first few days?  
CHARLEY HULL:   Not for the days out here but when I go back home definitely am.   But again, we have a golf course at our hotel, so I probably will want to go, because just I'm in grain with my swing at the moment and I just want to keep it going.  
   
 Q.   Do you practice on Christmas Day?  
CHARLEY HULL:   I did last year.   I did the previous years but I don't think I'm going to this year because I'm 18 and I can drink (laughter).   
   
 Q.   How do you assess your season as a whole?   Are you happy with your second year?   
CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, definitely.   I've had a Top‑10 in nearly every event I've played in over here and I've had a couple Top 10s in the Majors and on the LPGA Tour and got my first win, so it's been a pretty good year.   I've learnt a lot from this year and looking forward to next year.  
   
 Q.   What about next year, Majors, is that top of your priorities?   
CHARLEY HULL:   Definitely, just try to win a tournament each week.   That would be brilliant.   But Majors are something special, especially this year, coming close to my home tournament, I didn't finish off on the last day.   I think my putting let me down but now I've got that sussed, went left below right (ph) just went back to my coach, Lee, and I'm pretty happy.  
   
 Q.   Turnberry is where you won the title when you were a juror?  
CHARLEY HULL:   It is.  
   
 Q.   Does that give you a special boost when you go back‑‑  
CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, it will be a lot of fun.   I can't really remember the golf course because I was only nine years old.   I remember it being really windy.   The only thing about the golf course that I remember is that I got blown over on one of the tee boxes and dad had to pick me up.   
   
 Q.   The wind was that strong?  
CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, it was like 55‑mile‑per‑hour gusts and winds.   It was pretty strong and I was pretty light back then.   That was the Ladies Amateur‑‑ it was ‑‑ I can't remember, like health profession (indiscernible) quite a big event to win at nine years old.   
   
 Q.   Targets are Solheim Cup, Majors, World Ranking?  
CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah just the usual hit one shot at a time and hope I make more birdies next year.  
   
 Q.   Obviously Amy won Rookie of the Year following in your footsteps, and she's a good friend of yours, I understand.   Double celebration almost.  
CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, I'm so happy.   She's one of my best friends out here.   It's brilliant.   I've known Amy since I was younger and she had a great amateur career.   I always said she's going to be a great player when she's older.   
Hopefully she can go on and get a couple wins next year.   She came close a few times this year.   I sent her a message after Tenerife when she was leading after the first few holes on the final round and she didn't quite finish it off.   I said to her, it took me like six times‑‑ I finished six times like that, so head up and you'll learn a lot from that.   She's a steady player and she's very grounded, so I'm really happy for her.  
   
 Q.   Do you have to pinch yourself sometimes, realising that Amy is three years older than you, and you've won what she's won now, 12 months ago, and you're now Order of Merit winner.   A bit heavy, isn't it?  
CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, it's good but it's just a number.   I just keep on playing.   It's good to have people like that out there and hopefully Kelsey next year can be up there, as well.   
   
 Q.   Have you spoken to your dad this week?  
CHARLEY HULL:   Not really.   He rang me last night, but I spoke to him like two seconds.   He's watching me on TV and speaking to my coach.   
   
 Q.   So would he be watching this?   
CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, I think so.  
   
 Q.   Will you speak to him straight after?   
CHARLEY HULL:   I don't know, really.   Probably not.   It's not like I won't see him.   I'll probably see him when I get back home.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT