RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 10, 2014
Charley Hull
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What were you thinking walking to the third tee?
CHARLEY HULL:   There's plenty of holes out there and then I got it back which I was quite happy with.   A bit of a low start this morning.   A shame to finish with bogey but it was a good bogey in the end.   From the middle part of my round I played really well.

Q.   What was the difference for you? 
CHARLEY HULL:   The third hole, I hit a straight shot, straight on to the green and from interest I was pretty much flagging it.

Q.   Did you feel it was there for the taking in these conditions? 
CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, it is, but the first day of the British Open, I'm quite happy, you know, because I'm not usually very‑‑ don't usually play very well on links golf so far in the British Open, so this is the right start, the way I'm hitting it, so I'm happy.

Q.   Why do you say you don't play well on links courses? 
CHARLEY HULL:   No, I do play well but I don't play well in the British Open so far.   It's good for me to have this challenge and have the right mind‑set.

Q.   What do you think it is about the British Open that's held you back?
CHARLEY HULL:   Probably because everything is so flat, where like on tree‑lined golf courses, I can picture into it.   But I quite like it because it's a challenge.   Looking forward to tomorrow and hope I can hit it like I did in the middle part of my round today.
We both started with bogey and Stacy was 2‑over after three holes and I was 3‑over after three.   It was quite interesting and then we made a few birdies coming in. 

Q.   How pleased are you? 
CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, I feel like I played pretty‑‑ I started double‑bogey and bogey, but it's a shame about my tee shot on the last.   That block just came out of the middle of nowhere, but I hit a good second drive and made a good up‑and‑down on last and pretty happy how I'm hitting it anyway.

Q.   Tell us about the first couple of holes, early start, perhaps too early? 
CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, just‑‑ I don't know how I done it.   I just hit a shot out of the rough and second shot, hit that into the rough and made double‑bogey.   Not the end of the world, only first two holes.   I could make plenty of birdies.   I would rather have them at the start than at the end of my round because I can get them back after the golf course.

Q.   Did you say anything to yourself to regroup? 
CHARLEY HULL:   No, not really.   Just keep hitting it straight and I got back to level par.   Should have come in definitely way under par today but I'll take the positives.   I hit a good drive, well, second drive down the last.   The second one was terrible.   Hit a good 6‑iron in.   Just wrong club and hit a great up‑and‑down on the last.   Tricky up‑and‑down from that position. 

Q.   Conditions better or worse than the afternoon?
CHARLEY HULL:   I think it's going to probably pick up this afternoon but I'm not quite sure because we had it quite easy this morning, which was good‑‑ well, not easy but the wind was playing good for us.

Q.   And looking ahead to the next three rounds, you put yourself in position now to really make a real go at the leaderboard over the next couple days?
CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, for sure.   I can get a low one out tomorrow, just position it around this golf course and get a few putts to drop from the middle of greens. 
I started double‑bogey and bogeyed the second hole, and then I hit it really well from there.   I had a lot of putts on the edge from birdie that just didn't drop, just lipped‑out, corner of the hole.   But then I played really well in.
And it's a shame about my tee shot on the last.   I blocked, come out of the middle of nowhere.   Hit it out‑of‑bounds and hit a great second drive and hit a good third shot, just wrong club and hit a great flop shot to get them down the last on bogey.   Shot 1‑over.   I'm happy with that.   I can take a lot of positives from my round. 

Q.   There's been a lot of talk about the par 5s on the back nine, but it seems like the first few holes have been troubling players.   How has it been playing? 
CHARLEY HULL:   Well, I don't know, I just think because it's kind of a tight tee shot the first hole, but it's not that tight, but it's just, you know, first tee shot can be a little bit nervy. 

Q.   Where do you feel you are? 
CHARLEY HULL:   I feel like I'm hitting it pretty well and rolling it okay, so I'm really looking forward to tomorrow.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT