RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 13, 2014
Charley Hull
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How was it out there, a bit of a frustrating one?   
CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, I played rubbish today to be honest.   I was a bit nervous because the ball was moving and stuff on the greens, so I didn't want to putt my putter down and then it move.   So you're just kind of thinking about that, just stuff like that.  
I hit a really great drive down the first and I played the first hole really well.   I didn't play too bad on the front nine, and just a few holes on the back nine where 10, I hit a great shot into the green with my rescue and then just 3‑putted there.   
I learned a lot from this round today, again.   I think I'll be 11th or 12th or something where I finish, but just a shame I couldn't birdie the last to finish inside the Top‑10.  
   
 Q.   Is there anything you would do differently if you went back to the first tee again?   
CHARLEY HULL:   I don't know really.   Probably just been a bit more‑‑ took some different lines with my driver, because I'm hitting my driver pretty well when it's off the left.   
But off the right I'm just drawing it too much and that's because this year I've been having a bit of a block in my swing.   But the past couple of months I've been hitting it really well and I've been getting through and hitting this nice draw where it used to when I played the wind off the right, I could kind of block it into the wind a little bit.   
I've probably taken that away and I know what to do now.   And I sussed it out on last few holes when the wind is off the left, I play a bit off the toe, where that's where I used to struggle a lot more.   Now I've mastered the left‑to‑right shot, now just the right‑to‑left shot.  
   
 Q.   So this round will give you a lot of experience going forward?   
CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, definitely, 100 per cent.  
   
 Q.   At the Kraft Nabisco you shot a 66 and went into the final round in contention, fell away a bit.   Is there a similar story, any reason why you've not been able to back up a good third round with a good fourth round?  
CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, probably like today, I made a few bogeys in the middle of my round where I kind of thought, I'm out of it.   But then a couple holes later on I think, no, I'm actually still in it .   I have to keep thinking, I'm always still in it.   I think that comes with experience.   And just some different shot choices.   
You know, just getting a bit more feel of links golf when you're in the final group.   You don't always have to try and make birdie, which I was trying to force some times today when my iron shots wouldn't come off, so I think that, as well.  
   
 Q.   How much do you enjoy going into the final round in contention in a major; is that a feeling you want to keep doing time and time again?   
CHARLEY HULL:   Definitely, 100 per cent.   I've only played in two majors this year, and I managed to get into both of the majors and hopefully I can carry that forward into the next one and see if I can get an invite to the LPGA Championship.   We'll see.   I'm in Evian anyway.   I love the golf course at the Evian.   I didn't play well there last year but I think it will suit my game this year, especially once it's settled in and the new greens and everything.  
   
 Q.   What about next week?  
CHARLEY HULL:   I'm playing Germany next week, so I'm really looking forward to that.   I can't wait for that.   Probably won't be very windy out there and it will be a parkland golf course.   I'm hitting it very well and it would be nice to go and win over there.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT