RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 12, 2014
Charley Hull
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  COLIN CALLANDER:     Good afternoon, we have Charley Hull with us.   She just fired a 66 to move up to 1‑under par from tied 51 to Top‑10 as we stand at the moment.   
Great round of golf.   Can you give us general thoughts on the round.   
CHARLEY HULL:   I started off with two bogeys today.   But went deep and birdied the next two holes and I felt really happy actually‑‑ 2‑over.   I had nine birdies and three bogeys.   I'm just a bit disappointed I 3‑putted 17.   I missed a short putt there, but I really felt like I was going to hole my first putt.  
So I raced it about five feet past and left myself a tricky putt downhill left‑to‑right.   And I hit a really good putt but it just slid past and lipped‑out which is a bit annoying.   But probably I'm most happy about hitting 18 fairway because I've hit nearly three balls out‑of‑bounds to the right off my tee shot this week.   
So to get one in the fairway on last hole, I was actually really happy.   And to make birdie, I was even happier, because I've actually made birdie with my second or third ball or whatever each day.   But to actually have a birdie on my card instead of a 7 or 6, I'm quite happy.  
   
 Q.   How did you hit out‑of‑bounds?  
CHARLEY HULL:   First round I hit (inaudible) ‑‑ yesterday I hit it out right, hit a provisional off the tee and hit it two inches in bounds, so I had to take the drop.   Hacked it out, pitched it up, holed a putt for 7.   It was the best 7 I've ever had.   
   
 Q.   Curious about your mind‑set standing on 18, how do you block out what's happened in previous rounds?   
CHARLEY HULL:   I was about to pull my 3‑wood out, and then my caddie was like, no, don't hit 3‑wood.   I thought, well, at the end of the day, that out‑of‑bounds is 60 yards right and I'm ripping it out there.   And so I thought, aim it to the left and hit a fade.   
I just faded it down the fairway and just pretend I'm playing a tree‑lined hole instead of out‑of‑bounds; visualisation, I find it hard to see links golf courses, because everything is so flat.   I feel I can sometimes drive better‑‑ inaudible ‑‑ I tried to pretend it was a really wide hole, so just hit a little fade down the left and managed to hit it into the fairway.  
   
 Q.   The weather has been so beautiful; can you talk about what makes this course so difficult?   
CHARLEY HULL:   I think the rough.   I think it's intimidating off the tee to be honest.   It is a great golf course and the greens are tricky, as well, because they are so old, they have them little dips, so they are quite sneaky on you.   
I actually sometimes find links a bit easier when there's a bit of wind because I feel like I can ride off it where it's in front of you, there's no wind, I find it quite weird to play, probably because I'm so used to playing links in the wind anyway.  
   
 Q.   When you walked off 18 yesterday with the best seven you've ever made in your life I think you've said, did you still feel The Open was pretty much open to you?  
CHARLEY HULL:   No, I said to my dad last night, I'm not out of this championship.   I think it was‑‑ someone was ten shots behind off the lead.  
   
 Q.   Paul Lawrie?  
CHARLEY HULL:   And that was in the final round, wasn't it‑‑  
   
 Q.   Carnoustie ‑‑  
CHARLEY HULL:   Carnoustie.   I said I'm not out of this championship.   I said to my dad:   I can still win it if I have a good day tomorrow.   If the wind gets up tomorrow, it even par could win it.  
   
 Q.   Did you have a score in mind?  
CHARLEY HULL:   No, just thought I'd go out there and play well.   You know, 66 is nice.   
   
 Q.   And lastly, what was the shot you were trying to play on 18 on Thursday and Friday?  
CHARLEY HULL:   Straight.   Because I've hit it   ‑‑ I hit the tee shot in the practise days, hit an awesome tee shot down there but apparently not in the actual tournament.   So down the left with a fade.   
   
 Q.   How complete is the picture‑‑  
CHARLEY HULL:   I'm pretty much doing it on every hole, because you know, I'm actually visualising it really well which I'm quite happy with.   Because me, actually it's not just my coach‑‑ actually helps me visualise stuff.   
It's great because I'm really, really changing the picture of what it is.   And the fact that I did that last week on some holes at Buckinghamshirewhich it's quite linksy anyway.   It has trees but flat with the dunes and stuff and you have the thick rough.   That helped me for this week.  
   
 Q.   Tall pines orelms or ‑‑  
CHARLEY HULL:   I don't know, just really picture like Woburn, just really try and visualise it.   
   
 Q.   Given the situation where you are, where does this round fit in‑‑  
CHARLEY HULL:   You know, Morocco, that was a great round for me, having 9‑under in the last round to win the tournament.   And then shooting 66 in the Kraft Nabisco, that put me within two of the lead.   And here, definitely, yeah, they are all top rounds so far this year.   
Especially being in front of the home crowd, I felt like I had a bit of pressure on me coming into the beginning of this week, especially with RICOH, my sponsor, people are expecting a lot of me, and I feel like I kind of stepped up there today and really proved myself.   It was great to have a good crowd out there as well.  
I think the pressure is good, though, coming into a tournament, because it shows that you have played quite well coming into this tournament and played a well this season.   So you can see it two ways and I suppose take the positives and think it's a good thing?  
   
 Q.   What is the state of British golf?   People seem excited; do you feel that?   
CHARLEY HULL:   I don't know, I'm usually away a lot but there's some great golfers out there.   Especially Holly, Holly Clyburn; she's a friend of mine.   She's a great golfer, and she's definitely a good one to look for for the majors in the future and this one, as well, which is great.   
   
 Q.   How did you like playing with Lexi today?   She had it going the opposite direction.   
CHARLEY HULL:   It's fun playing with Lexi.   I like playing with Lexi.   We played together in the Solheim in the third round when she played with Paula, and I have good memories then‑‑ I played Paula twice.   I played with Lexi then and then I played a practise round with her here on Monday, just the back nine holes.   I like playing with Lexi, a few years ago, she was one of my favourite golfers because she was young and everything.   So it was good and nice to be friends.   We had a lot of fun out there.   
   
 Q.   It all seems very uncomplicated.   Is it?   
CHARLEY HULL:   It is complicated, but it's what you make of it.   You can make it easy and some days it can be really hard.   You know, it's easy to make it hard but complicated, you know, I don't know.   
Playing rounds like I did, the two bogeys at the start was a bit complicated that you I shot 6‑under but you've just got to keep in there and it's easy to shoot a low score but it's hard to, golf is just a strange sport but I love it.   
COLIN CALLANDER:     Good time to do the birdies and bogeys.   You started with a couple bogeys?   
CHARLEY HULL:   I hit my drive left, which I did on the first day.   I hacked it out, hit it straight onto about 15 foot and I just missed it.   
Next hole, pushed my drive off to the right, pitched up, hit my pitch over the green for my third shot and chipped up and holed the putt.   
Rescue down the next hole, 7‑iron to seven feet, birdie.   
Next hole, the par3, 5‑iron, four feet left, birdie.   
Next hole, I hit a good tee shot down there, my rescue, 8‑iron right.   Holed my putt, it was only about 15 foot away and I thought I had it and it just missed.   
Next hole I birdied.   It was a good birdie.   Hit a great drive.   My caddie told me to aim left at the pin but I was like, no, I'm going straight at it, 8‑iron, about ten foot right, birdie.  
Parred the next few holes.   Probably should have birdied nine.   But the next birdie, it was‑‑ I put it like 30 foot left of the pin with a 7‑iron.   
Next one, 7‑iron, 15 foot left, birdie‑‑  
COLIN CALLANDER:   Have you ever had four twos before?   
CHARLEY HULL:   I think so‑‑ actually, I don't even know about that.   
The next hole I hit my drive right in the bunker, through to the green, holed a 30‑footer.  
Next hole, great drive, wedged up to ten feet and birdied that.  
17 you know, 5‑footer coming back.  
18, over the back of the green, good hot, chipped up and holed the putt.   
   
 Q.   Is there ever a time that you don't play aggressively?   Have you dialed it back at all as a pro from experience now?   
CHARLEY HULL:   Well, I don't know.   I don't realise that I play aggressive golf but I probably do.   But I suppose I do sometimes.   I just hit it.   If it's a stupid pin, I'm not going to take it on, but if it's reasonable, I just go for it.   
   
 Q.   How good would you say this round was?   
CHARLEY HULL:   I'd say it's good.   
   
 Q.   But in your personal pantheon of rounds, the best, the second best, fourth best?   
CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, around that area.   I'd say 9‑under was my best round and then Kraft was a best round and this is a great round.   
Yeah, it's probably up there, in front of the home crowd.   One of the best.   I don't know where it ranks, but yeah.  
   
 Q.   Why would you say 9‑ under was the best, because it was the lowest?   
CHARLEY HULL:   No.   Because it was ‑‑ I was six shots behind going into the final round or five shots and I think I shot 5‑under on that golf course in Morocco, and Morocco is a very tight golf course.   In the final round, I just hit driver everywhere, like even into places on the fairway where it was ten yards wide, I just hit driver, I took it out and hit it.   So, yeah, I am aggressive.   But I say that's one of the best rounds, especially the 4‑iron that I hit in the end to win in the playoff.   
   
 Q.   Laura Davies was saying people tend to over‑complicate things, especially young players coming through.   Is that very much your philosophy to keep things simple?   
CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, like I always say, hit it, find it, hit it again, just do that.   
COLIN CALLANDER:   Is that the plan for tomorrow, as well?   
CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, just go out there, do my thing.   I have my coach to work on a few shots, a few drivers today, just go out there and work on my putting as well and be ready for tomorrow.   
COLIN CALLANDER:     Thank you very much.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT