ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS LADIES SCOTTISH OPEN
August 12, 2020
Charley Hull
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  THE MODERATOR:   First of all, why are you late?  I hear it's because you've been going to the gym?
 CHARLEY HULL:   Because, like, in the hotel there's literally no spaces to go to the gym because I think everyone wants to go because only one person can go in and I had to go to the gym at 11 o'clock last night and I fell asleep and the only space today was 2.00.  I practised early, played and went back, went gym and then come back.
 THE MODERATOR:   That's a regime you've developed in lockdown?
 CHARLEY HULL:   Well, only this week because this is my first proper week on Tour, so I didn't realise it was going to be quite as strict as this.
 THE MODERATOR:   And tell me about the last few weeks because you came out of lockdown really hot and you've done really well in the Rose Ladies Series.
 CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, it was a really, really good thing to play in.  It was on some really good golf courses, as well because you never really get to play all them heathland golf courses in England.  So it was nice to play them, and just a good warmup for the season.
 And it was a shame about the final at Wentworth with the fires, but they have done such a good job with the golf course, it was just such a shame.
 Q. And you also competed in some other things, as well, didn't you?
 CHARLEY HULL:   I played in, I think it was four or if I have Clutch Pro events.  That was really fun.  That was a great setup with the boys and I really enjoyed it.
 Q. Safe to say you missed the competition?
 CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, it's been good.  I won't feel too nervous on the first tee tomorrow.
 Q. How are you feeling ahead of the first LPGA event and LET back?
 CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah last few weeks I've been hitting it really well and I'm just looking forward to.  It obviously links golf isn't my favourite -- well, I like playing links golf but I don't think it likes me, but I like American golf.  I'm really looking forward to it.  I kind of prefer playing links golf when the weather is a bit rainy and windy.  It's a lot of fun but there's two good golf courses and the course is in great condition.
 Q. Have you been out on the course today?
 CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, I played -- well yesterday I was meant to play 18 holes but I only played 16 holes because the storm come in.  I went out this morning at 7.00 and played the last three holes and I played from, I think it was the 5th or the 6th hole to the 14th, so it was good.
 Q. When you say you think links golf doesn't like you, can you expand on that?  Is that something you've always felt?
 CHARLEY HULL:   I've always like tree-lined golf courses and I hit the ball quite high, and I carry the ball quite far.  I kind of find it better in America when the fairways are wet that I just carry it.  It's all carry and it's like target golf.  Where over here, I can hit low shots everything and, I don't know, I kind of like real tight golf courses when it's tree-lined because I can visualise it better.  Here it's flat and you struggle to picture out points and it makes it tighter in my head for me even though it's not as tight as a free-lined golf course.  It's more of a visual thing.
 Q. This week, obviously the bubble, can you talk about that and how you are sort of combatting a lot of time in your room, etc.?  Is that something you find quite hard?
 CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, I do because I'm always active.  I like to be out of my room doing something and going for a walk, so I've just been doing laps in my room.  It hasn't been too bad.  Been spending a bit of time at the golf course and yeah, it's just a bit hard because I like going to the gym.
 Usually my gym is part of my warmup routines in the morning, and obviously I can't do that no more.  Sort of band work outs in the room but I managed to get a good bit of cardio done in the gym this morning, or an hour ago.  That's one thing I like doing a lot, makes me feel a lot fresher but it's hard because there's loads of people in the field this week and there's probably only 16 spots a day for the gym, so it's a bit crazy.
 Q. You've told me that when you're in America, it's almost as if you're still at home because you're on the phone to your friends the moment you finish, so you don't really get wrapped up in the whole American scene, do you?
 CHARLEY HULL:   No.  Yeah, I usually like going out for dinner and stuff which is kind of hard but yeah, I don't really socialise with too many of the players just because I'm always in my own bubble.  I usually go out for dinner with my caddie or something, and that, so it's not too hard for me.
 But I kind of like do like going outside.  Even to go for a run outside the hotel, that would be nice, but we can't do that, but I understand it, though.  You don't want to risk it at all.
 Q. Can you run around the hotel or not?
 CHARLEY HULL:   No.  I've got my gym sessions in for the next couple days, I think it's 9.00 tomorrow night and the day after it's like 10.00 in the morning, so it's not too bad.  It's just that you have to book them really in advance.
 Q. And now tell me about your length, you're very long in the U.K.  Now where do you stand on the distance stats in America?
 CHARLEY HULL:   I'm not quite sure.  There's quite a few long -- there's a lot of long players out here, but I'm -- yeah, I'm a good distance -- a lot of my ball flight is carry and I like that.  I hardly have no roll.  But it's kind of bad for me because I know I can carry the bunkers rather than carrying something and rolling into something else.  As you know I don't get wrapped up in stats at all really.
 Q. Just tell me one stat you would know about somebody.
 CHARLEY HULL:   Oh, I don't got a clue.  I don't know my own stats to be fair.
 Q. Where are you on the Order of Merit?
 CHARLEY HULL:   I haven't got a clue.
 Q. What's the highest you've ever been on the American Order of Merit?
 CHARLEY HULL:   I think it was fifth -- no, fourth.  Sorry.  Fourth.  That's probably the only stat I know.
 Q. You had said earlier, the Rose Series wasn't the way that you would have wanted it to end, obviously the circumstances with the fire, but if you look over the course of that mini tour, what has that meant for you coming into this and also to next week?  What has that meant to you?
 CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, it's just really good, and to get, you know, scorecard in your hand.  I didn't play any practise rounds apart from the last event.  So maybe if I played a couple earlier, I'd have had some better scores because I actually played really, really well during the Rose Series and then a couple of holes got me where I didn't play a practise round.  It's just great to have obviously a scorecard in your hand.  It's a lot different, if you're just playing golf and you come to a tournament and have a scorecard fit in your hand, it's kind of a bit of a shock, especially with six months off, so it was really, really good and I was grateful for that.
 Q. What did you see of the fire on Friday?
 CHARLEY HULL:   I saw it, it was crazy.  We got caught off on the middle of the 8th fairway and it was behind the 9th green.  It was really terrible and bad behind the 10th tee box.  Saw a lot.  And seeing this whole like 30-foot tree burning and within like seconds about 30 yards of land just on fire, it was really bad, sad.
 Q. Were any of the girls sort of screaming or were they really alarmed or were they all just very peaceful?
 CHARLEY HULL:   No.  There wasn't screaming or anything.  Everyone was just shocked about the fire.  But no, no one was like running around.  It was just more everyone needed to get off the golf course because it wasn't very safe.  It was right behind the 10th tee box.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT