RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 11, 2014
Charley Hull
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How hard is it conditions‑wise?   
CHARLEY HULL:   It wasn't that hard out there today.   I just made it hard on the last hole by doubling it.   But I made a good double to be honest.   I did get up‑and‑down on the hole so I'm quite pleased with that.   
But it's just that tee shot.   I've been driving the ball lovely this week.   It's just that last hole where I've been blocking my drive on that hole.   I just didn't see it visually.   But I thought I had my putt on 17 and I don't know how that broke to the right.   
But I'm pretty happy how I'm playing.   It's just I think I need to work on a few of my pace putts because I felt the greens were a lot slower today.   Do that and look forward to the weekend.  
   
 Q.   Tell us what happened on 18?  
CHARLEY HULL:   Blocked two drives out to the right and the second one was only two inches inbounds so I had to play a penalty drop.   Hit out with a wedge, put my gap wedge to six feet and then holed it for my double‑bogey.  
   
 Q.   Now looking ahead to the weekend, you're clearly quite far back, how do you go about approaching Saturday?   
CHARLEY HULL:   Just play my game, because I can get two low scores out there.   I really like links golf when the wind is up to be honest.   I feel like I play better for some reason.   That's the way I see it but I'm really looking forward to the weekend and hopefully the wind and up and you can go low.  
   
 Q.   Is the course playing harder today compared to yesterday or is it about wind and when you get out there?   
CHARLEY HULL:   No the really.   For me it was just a few holes.   To be honest my putting wasn't very good today.   I think that let me down a little bit but I holed some good putts on the back nine‑‑ the last couple of holes.   I'm quite happy, and the course isn't playing too tricky with the wind.   But it's a championship golf course so it's always going to be hard even if it's easy.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT