SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 10, 2013
Charley Hull
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Okay day today, 1‑over you finish.   Just talk about your round today, how you managed the course and how it suits your game? 
CHARLEY HULL:   Well, I played all right.   It was just I left a putt short of the hole.   They're rolling really good the greens, but I find them a bit slow to what I'm usually used to.   But I've hit every putt within 17 feet and just missed a few.   So it was one of them days.

Q.   So just tightening up the putting going forward and everything else you felt? 
CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, and two drives to begin with got me off to a bad start, and then I made a birdie, so it was all right.

Q.   So you're pleased with how you're bouncing back?   Didn't get off track too much? 
CHARLEY HULL:   Uh‑huh.

Q.   Last time I saw you we were at Canada in the CN and then you played at Evian.   Talk about your schedule the past couple months what you've been up to after Evian as well? 
CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, I played the Ladies European Tour the week before last, so about two weeks ago, and I played pretty good there.   I got food poisoning in the last round, so I wasn't feeling really good.   But I was kind of top 10, so it was all right.

Q.   Talk about your year so far on the LET.   You've been playing awesome, just outstanding golf.   Talk about that experience and your first preseason and how you've been playing and getting a lot of experience under your belt? 
CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, it's been really good.   I've gotten a lot of experience.   I've had seven top tens, I think, in my 11 tournaments I've played in.   I think kind of was given to me.   I got within one shot of the lead after the third and half round.   I got a bit tired after that and came in 17th.   But I'm getting a lot of experience now and looking towards playing more and more golf.

Q.   Now coming back to another LPGA event, you probably got to see a lot of European Solheim Cup teammates.   Is it good to see them in how is it catching up to them and seeing them on more of a regular basis? 
CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, it's good.   It's good to see everyone because there are a lot of people out here, and it's nice to catch up with some of them.   I find some of the Americans quite funny, which is good.

Q.   Talk about your decision, you planned to go to Q‑school and decided not to go through with that, and decided next year you'll do mostly LET? 
CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah.

Q.   Just talk about what went into that decision and how you came to that? 
CHARLEY HULL:   I'm only 17, and that means I'd have to spend a lot of time over there.   I want to have a bit of a childhood to see my friends and stuff, so that's kind of why.

Q.   That's a good decision.   Lydia, I believe there are reports that she's going to turn pro shortly.   You guys have played a decent amount of golf together under the spotlight as young stars.   Your thoughts on her decision to do that?   Everyone says she was pretty much ready to do it, but what are your thoughts on her turning pro? 
CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, she's a great player.   I just think she's awesome.   I'd say she's probably the main one to be out there because she's so straight, and she just seems like she's world No. 1 already, if that makes any sense.   She just does everything good.   Just like she's so straight. 
Usually I'm pretty straight as well.   But the last couple months I've had a bit of a way with my driver because I've been working on some stuff and trying to keep my balance.   So just working on that and see how it goes in the future.

Q.   Is this the first time in Asia? 
CHARLEY HULL:   Yes, the first time in Asia.   I've been to Turkey, but I don't know.   Half of it is in Asia.   But, yeah, this is my first time.

Q.   First time in Malaysia?
CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah.

Q.   How do you find playing on the golf course here? 
CHARLEY HULL:   I think it's very beautiful.   I really like it.   It suits my eye when I look at it.   I think the greens are rolling very nice.   They're really smooth.   The weather sometimes is a bit hot for me, but today wasn't too bad.

Q.   In the Solheim Cup you played in, how was the feeling? 
CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, it was really good.   I didn't really notice what I'd done until about five weeks after, because I don't know, I was just trying to get ready for Canada now because that was like the week after was my first LPGA proper event, so it just kind of sunk in.   I tell you a couple weeks ago it sunk in, and it was like cool.

Q.   (Indiscernible) you didn't want to go to Q‑school? 
CHARLEY HULL:   Because of what? 

Q.   17 years old, you didn't want to go to Q‑school? 
THE MODERATOR:   Yeah, she doesn't want to play LPGA full‑time because she'll have to essentially move to the states or be away from her home at 17.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
CHARLEY HULL:   I'm not a fan of the New York Yankees.   Sorry, in England we all wear them for a fashion thing because I didn't know what they meant.   And my sister's boyfriend had it and I saw it at their house.   So when he wasn't there I stole it and put it on my head.   Then on the TV‑‑ he said to my sister, where's my cap gone?   He turns the TV on and he sees it on my head.   So since then, he says you've made my cap famous, and he bought me loads of different colors.

Q.   But they're a good baseball team?
CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah; that's good, I'm going to support them now.

Q.   Prior to coming to Malaysia, what have you heard about it, and what do you want to go and see, places you want to go and see?   Do you have any? 
CHARLEY HULL:   The hotel that we're staying at has a big shopping mall, and I think your shops are really, really good.

Q.   Better than back home? 
CHARLEY HULL:   Similar.   I think they've even got a top shop here, I think.   And all my wardrobe is from Top Shop, so, yeah, I really like it.   It's really, really good.

Q.   Expectations the next three rounds?   Anything to look forward to trying to improve? 
CHARLEY HULL:   I don't know.   Just go out there and enjoy it.   Probably hole a few more putts because I need to get past the hole, but I'm not too fast on this.

Q.   How is it playing the next few events in Asia? 
CHARLEY HULL:   I'm not playing in the next two events, but I'm playing a couple in China.

Q.   Are those LET events? 
CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah.   So I'm looking forward to them. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT