CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 23, 2013
Charley Hull
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Your front nine was it as uneventful as your card looked?   It was all pars throughout the first nine holes?  
CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, which I started on the back nine of the golf course.   Yeah, I played pretty solid.   I wasn't hitting that good today like on the front nine with my tee shots, because I felt a bit tired out there.   I was really tired and trying to keep my balance.   But the back nine I got something going and holed a few putts, and I'm pretty pleased about it.  
   
 Q.   On the back nine for you, were you just seeing the lines better?   What was it?   
CHARLEY HULL:   I don't know.   I just felt a little later in the day the greens got a bit bumpier, so I just kind of see it better and I just holed it.   I had a feeling when I had the putt that I was going to hole it, and I holed it, so it was good.  
   
 Q.   Are you growing more comfortable?   Are you gaining some momentum?   
CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, I only played one practice round on Tuesday, and I was pretty tired from the whole of last week.   I felt more comfortable in the afternoon, and I know a lot more of the holes and I was getting used to how far the ball was driving, because last week in Colorado it flew a lot farther, and I didn't have that practice round to see how far it was going, so that was good, because I was tired.   
But I've been away for like six weeks and the past six weeks I've only been home for like four or five days.   So I'm looking forward to going back on Sunday and having a bit of rest.  
   
 Q.   Talk about your putting stroke.   I know last week when I was watching the broadcast they commented on your straight arm approach.   What is your background on your putting, is it with a coach or anything?   Is that how you started when you were young?   
CHARLEY HULL:   No, I just changed my putting stroke about eight months ago, completely changed it.   I used to have really bent arms, and I would just putt like that and I putt and it goes in.   So it's fine.   Touch wood.  
   
 Q.   In the case of Laura Davies, she looks like she's in contention for the weekend; is she someone you look up to?   
CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, definitely.   I know Laura, and she's really nice.   I love playing golf with her because we're both fast players.   I played quite a bit with her in Europe.   She's obviously been one of my heros growing up, and she's a great player.   She's got a good sense of humor as well, and she supports the same football team as me, Liverpool, so yeah.  
   
 Q.   Is there one particular hole on this course that give us more trouble than any of the others?   
CHARLEY HULL:   I haven't really thought about it yet.  
   
 Q.   Anything Laura has done advice‑wise?   Has she been more of a mentor?   Is she just kind of there?   
CHARLEY HULL:   No, she's just there as a competitor, so she's really good.   I like Laura.   She just like hits it, finds it, hit it's again.   She's good.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT