CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 24, 2019
Charley Hull
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  All right, a phenomenal round. What was the mindset going into the final round today?  
CHARLEY HULL: Pretty much just the same as all week: just make birdies. But, yeah, just pretty much go out there will and have fun, and I did.   
 Q.  You've won here before. Did those winning memories start creeping into your mind as you were walking up 18?  
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, they're kind of always in my mind around this golf course. I think I might've shot 5 or 6-under the last day when I won and shot 6-under today. Yeah, pretty good.   
 Q.  So yesterday, was that the day you realized you could get back into this?  
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, definitely 100% finished with -- I think I was level, 5-under, 6-under, 6-under, so pretty good week.   
 Q.  For you just how has this week been going for you? The stakes were much higher this week than normally with the $1.5 million winner prize.  
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, it was good. I don't know. I didn't really think about the money, to be fair. I just thought of it as another tournament. My caddie and I make a great team.   
 Q.  What's next after this?  
CHARLEY HULL: Going on my honeymoon next Friday.   
 Q.  Where to?  
CHARLEY HULL: Going to Dubai for two days and Maldives.   
 Q.  Great performance coming down the stretch there. Three birdies to finish. Did you have a sense of the moment, that you needed to finish big to have a chance?  
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, kind of 15 I looked at the leaderboard and I thought I've got a chance here if I make -- if I birdie in. Didn't birdie 15, but birdied 16, 17, and 18. I gave it my best shot.   
 Q.  You've been a member of the Solheim Cup. How intense does this tournament relate to playing in the Solheim Cup?  
CHARLEY HULL: It's a bit different because obviously you're playing by yourself, where in Solheim you've got your team to back you up.   
But it was good. The last few holes kind of felt Solheim-ish because I knew I needed to make birdie.   
 Q.  What does this say about women's golf that it can come down to this moment with the intensity the way it is and everybody playing for the $1.5 million?  
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, it's great. I think the whole tournament is a great event for women's golf, and just nice to finish the year with a big event like this.   
 Q.  You did absolutely everything you could to win this tournament. Now that you've watched the thing play out, what are the emotions?  
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, I feel pretty happy considering the first day after the 1st hole I was 2-over par because I started with a seven. To finish 17-under, and I know just missed by one, but it was so close.   
 Q.  Was there a point out there where you were watching the leaderboard or having a discussion with your caddie and you kind of know what's going on?  
CHARLEY HULL: Honestly, on the 15th hole I thought, if I can make birdie in I've got a good chance. I didn't birdie 15, but 16, 17, and 18, so I was pretty happy.   
 Q.  Lastly, how about the love you have for this golf courses. You've won here. You almost won today. What's it about Tiburon that you agree with?  
CHARLEY HULL: I just like being in Florida. I think Florida is probably my favorite state in America. I just like being here. It's a great golf course and the crowd is great.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT