RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 31, 2013
Charley Hull
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  COLIN CALLANDER:   Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen.   We have Charley Hull with us this afternoon.   Thank you very much indeed for coming in.   This time last year, you were a very successful amateur golfer and now you're a very successful pro golfer.   Must be quite a change for you.
CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, well, I've always been dreaming to be a professional golfer, so just feels right now. 
COLIN CALLANDER:   You've only played the Old Course once before, I was surprised to hear, in the St Rule Trophy, what are your thoughts of it.
CHARLEY HULL:   I actually played it when I was 13 about three or four years ago.   Yeah, I remember it, how I played it before, but I'm a bit longer now.   Yeah, I love it, coming down 17 and 18, it looks so special out there. 
COLIN CALLANDER:   How much longer do you think you are?     You hit the ball a long way nowadays.
CHARLEY HULL:   I can't remember at the time, but yeah, I do hit it a bit further. 

Q.   This tournament, is it a big dream for you? 
CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, yeah, it's massive.   It's what I worked for the whole year.   The British Open, I remember what I was nine, I played in a Pro‑Am with Morgan Pressel, and then yesterday I'm out there playing in a Pro‑Am, being the pro in the Pro‑Am, so it's good. 
COLIN CALLANDER:   Where did you play the Pro‑Am with Morgan? 
CHARLEY HULL:   Lytham.   I played with Stacy Lewis, as well.   That was a couple years ago at Birkdale. 

Q.   Can you talk about playing in the Pro‑Am with the Stanley Cup captain and whether you felt a little bit of pressure to impress since she was up close and personal with you?
CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, I was playing with Lotta.   Yeah, did I feel a little bit of pressure, because I use it as a practise round‑‑ so I felt like you have to play well.   But no, it was all right.   It was good.   I liked her, she was really nice. 

Q.   How much is that weighing on your mind this week and how do you kind of try to push it away and concentrate on playing golf? 
CHARLEY HULL:   At the end of the day, I'm 17, so I just go out there and have fun.   I just enjoy it.   I just enjoy being out on the golf course and hitting the ball around, so I know I'm going to be thinking about it.   But I've got nothing to lose to be honest, first year on Tour, so go out there and play. 
COLIN CALLANDER:   You've had a bunch of second‑place finishes so far; does that make you very pleased or slightly disappointed that you have not actually won one? 
CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, I think‑‑ well, it's been good, and a bit frustrating, as well.   But if someone said at the beginning of the year, you would have five second‑place finishes in your first five tournaments, I would take that.   But yeah, I would want to win as well, to be honest. 
But what's scary, I feel like if I'm getting more experience‑‑ like last week, I didn't feel as nervous on the first hole.   Like I felt, right, I've had that experience, and I just went out there and felt like I could handle it a bit more better now. 

Q.   I know you've had a few different caddies; have you settled on one? 
CHARLEY HULL:   Eric, I can't say his second name, but I really like him.   Had him the first time in Germany and played pretty good, as you know, finished second.   And then I had him in Spain and I had him last week.   So I feel like we are getting a really good bond.   I don't like too much talking when I have a caddie.   I just like it pretty simple, give me a number, and he does that really well.   But I feel like I'm quite good friends with him, as well, because he knows what to say to me in a round, and I like that. 

Q.   That early experience at the Kraft Nabisco last year, how has that impacted and helped you this year? 
CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, well, that was just a great experience.   That was my first tournament in a pro tournament and it was a major, and I went out and birdied the first hole.   I will never forget that. 
Yeah, it was so good.   It's just mentally, as well, it helped me, and it gave me a lot of confidence that I could play with the pros.   I played about five pro events last year and finished pretty good in them.   Yeah, I think I'm getting a little bit of experience now, even though I'm 17, but I learned from every event that I've played in and I keep building from that. 

Q.   Of all the seconds, is there one hole, one shot, in particular, that you dwell on shoulda, woulda, coulda? 
CHARLEY HULL:   I think it would have been Slovak (ph) in the first round, I'm level par with two to play and I've just birdied the last two holes to get back to level par.   Then I was thinking, right, I want to birdie the last two holes.   So I bogeyed 17 and then 18 I hit it to about 16 feet and I just thought, I'm going to hit this putt and I whacked it about seven feet by and missed it coming back. 
Third round, I'm par coming down the last and I hit it close enough‑‑ finish with a birdie and I lipped‑out and then I went too far past again.   But I've learned from that, that you can't win it in the first round, you can't win it in the second round and you can't really win it in the third round.   So golf's a marathon, really, and understood what to do from there. 
COLIN CALLANDER:   You've played a lot of golf at a very high level as an amateur; are you saying that turning pro now, it's a completely different ballgame all together, is it? 
CHARLEY HULL:   I think so, but you've got quite a few amateurs that have come from the professional scene, as well, that you're playing with, and they are really good golfers.   It's really good when you're playing with like my favorite players out on Tour.   I love playing with Carlota Ciganda, I think she's a great player and she's great for the Tour.   She reminds me of Seve.   I was playing with her in Spain the other week, I was left and she was right and we were getting it out of the trees and getting up‑and‑down and walking off for par.   I love watching her play, and Laura.

Q.   You've had a couple of turns with Laura, how did she impress you with her length and stress and everything else? 
CHARLEY HULL:   I love playing with Laura.   I think kind of similar in a way, in that we are both aggressive.   I have some good memories because the first time I ever played with Laura was in Morocco and I went out and shot a 64 and I shot a 67 with her and a 68 and a 66 last week.   I feel like she brings out the best in my game to be honest.   I feel like she has no fear out on the golf course, which is really, really good, and I've learned a lot of things from Laura, how to play the game and to think. 
I remember it was incredible, like how she got around at level par that day, like in it was anybody else, it could have been 80, and I really respect her.   She's a great player.

Q.   What did she say to you when you went around in 64? 
CHARLEY HULL:   She said, "That was a great round."       Yeah, it was just really good.   It was funny, because I was playing with Lee‑Anne Pace that well, that day, and every day I played with her in the first two rounds, as well, because it was the third round I played with Laura, and I played with Lee‑Anne a lot during the year and when I shot 64 she come in and goes, thanks, a lot of luck from you‑‑ which was kind of funny. 

Q.   I'm going to ask you the same question that I asked Carly this morning.   Do you have any aspirations of joining the LPGA? 
CHARLEY HULL:   I'm going to LPGA Q‑School. 

Q.   You are going this year? 
CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah. 
COLIN CALLANDER:   Thank you very much for coming in, good luck this week.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT