RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
September 13, 2012
Charley Hull
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  COLIN CALLANDER:   Good afternoon, we have Charley Hull with us today, 1‑under par 71 in pretty difficult conditions.   You must be pleased with your start. 
CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, I'm pretty happy.   I'm happy. 
COLIN CALLANDER: I think I overheard you saying the wind was quite strong and dying as you were going in; is that true? 
CHARLEY HULL:   It got windier when I first teed off and then about nine holes into the round, it died down a bit. 
COLIN CALLANDER:     Birdied the seventh hole? 
CHARLEY HULL:   7, I hit rescue and 8‑iron to about 5‑foot and holed it.
Fifth, I hit driver, rescue wood, half‑pitching wedge to about eight‑foot and holed it.
COLIN CALLANDER:   Dropped your only shot of the day at the 8th. 
CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, I hit it right and I hit it over the green, chipped up and missed the putt. 
I should have birdied 7, as well, because I had about a 6‑footer on that and should have birdied‑‑ well not should have, but I had a good birdie chance on the third, as well. 
COLIN CALLANDER:     And you finished with nine straight pars.
CHARLEY HULL:   I did.   I had three pretty good up‑and‑downs.   And then I missed about a 10‑footer on 18, it was downhill left‑to‑right.
COLIN CALLANDER:   What is the key to playing around here? 
CHARLEY HULL:   You've got to hit it straight.   And you've just got to hit‑‑ pretty much your game has to be good.   You have got to putt well and you have to scramble well if you're not on the greens in regulation.   You've got to play well. 
COLIN CALLANDER:   You've played four pro events this year so far and made the cut in all four.   You're obviously not over‑awed. 
CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, it's been good.   I just pretend I'm out there playing with my mates.   I know it's like a major but that's how I think of it. 

Q.   How difficult as an amateur around this Hoylake course, which is notoriously very, very difficult, even the men at The Open found it difficult; how did you find it out there?
CHARLEY HULL:   I enjoyed it out there.   It's a good challenge.   And when I go out there‑‑ yeah, you have to hit it straight so you have to drive it pretty well.   I didn't drive it that great today but I still managed to hit fairways and I hit a lot of 3‑woods and rescues off the tee.

Q.   Do you like challenging courses? 
CHARLEY HULL:   Oh, yeah, I like them long.   I like them narrow, as well.   I come from Woburn and that's quite tight.   So that's probably I didn't get it from.

Q.   So you look into sort of build a platform, a good, solid round, are you hoping to go forward‑‑ how higher you aiming to finish up the leaderboard?
CHARLEY HULL:   I don't think about it at all.   I just play one shot at a time, one hole at a time and just see what my score is at the end of the day. 

Q.   Do you think you can win?
CHARLEY HULL:   It's possible, but I'm not thinking of that at the minute‑‑ but you could‑‑ (indiscernible).

Q.   Do you know Lydia Ko? 
CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, well, I've heard of her.

Q.   Have you met her ever? 
CHARLEY HULL:   No, but I think she's pretty awesome though isn't she.

Q.   Are you inspired by what she's done as a teenager?
CHARLEY HULL:   Oh, yeah, yeah.   She's got a lot of experience and she's only 15.   But golf, it's not a race, you know.   But she's great.   But I think there's still a lot more to come and for me as well. 

Q.   You mentioned about hitting the fairways being important, did you go in the rough at all?
CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, I actually went in the rough on the first, like the deep rough, and then on the eighth hole.

Q.   What did you do when you went in the rough?
CHARLEY HULL:   Actually I had a pretty good run.   I hit 6‑iron out and it turned the club head over and went over the green.   But I couldn't really get up‑and‑down because I was in another bit of rough.   But on the first, I hit it left, but as well, kind of was attached ‑‑ got one out. 

Q.   It seems a fairly decent sense of achievement, breaking par in the Women's British Open and sitting here, sitting where you are; what's the sense of accomplishment for you?
CHARLEY HULL:   What do you mean‑‑ well, I shot 1‑under.   It felt pretty good.   And I birdied actually the first hole at the Kraft, and I tried do that here, to make two birdies on the first holes, but yeah, it feels good.   But I have experience from last time so hopefully I will get better in the second round.

Q.   You and your caddie had a bit of an adventure getting here this morning?
CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, apparently I just found out he came on a motor bike and it got stolen and he had to catch a taxi. 
COLIN CALLANDER:   He had to catch a taxi which cost him 30 quid, which I don't think he was too pleased with, but he made it on time, didn't he.
CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah.   He made it in plenty of time.   I didn't even know until he told me after the round. 

Q.   What's his name?
CHARLEY HULL:   Mark.

Q.   How did he come to caddie for you?
CHARLEY HULL:   I played in the Irish ladies Open on the Ladies European Tour about five weeks ago, and he was looking for a bag and I didn't know to caddie and he said he was coming over to the British Open and he qualified, caddied for me in the qualifier. 

Q.   There's another famous playerfrom Woburn; do you follow him very closely?
CHARLEY HULL:   I played like a golf day there, played a couple of holes with him, and yeah, he's nice.   I think he follows me on Twitter, as well.   I got Tweets from him, like gave me a few pointers on match play and stuff.   So he's nice.

Q.   What sort of pointers did he give you?
CHARLEY HULL:   He said in match play, he said to me, like even if they are in the bunker, expect them to hole it.   Just stuff like that. 

Q.   What are your plans now for the rest of the year?
CHARLEY HULL:   I'm going to go to LET Q‑School at the end of the year, and if I get my card, I'll turn pro then. 

Q.   Will you turn pro before then?
CHARLEY HULL:   No, not yet.   I've got World Amateur Team Championship that's in Turkey and that's in about four weeks' time.   And the week beforethat ‑‑ (Inaudible.)

Q.   What is the official age that you can just be full‑time on the Tour for the LET? 
CHARLEY HULL:   Well, I asked if I could go like early but I think it's really 18 or 17, I'm not quite sure.   But you have to ask. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
CHARLEY HULL:   In the second round, and I got under pressure and I started hitting it really hard, and I think in the third round, I shot 4‑under and it should have been a lot better than that, as well.   That's definitely one thing that I've learnt, because I like being quite‑‑ swinging it hard, the way I've been brought up since I was young.   But now I've been getting older and ‑‑ indiscernible. 

Q.   Where are you education‑wise? 
CHARLEY HULL:   I finished school‑‑ I finished school a couple months back.   So I'm not going to go to like college or anything. 

Q.   How nervous were you today? 
CHARLEY HULL:   I wasn't nervous on the first tee because I didn't have any expectations.   I think there was more media, I shouldn't expect anything out there. 
Kraft Nabisco I was a little bit more nervous but pretty much the same to be honest.   I was probably a little bit more nervous qualifying for The Open.   I was nervous on the first tee but not as nervous as I thought I would be. 
It was a shame last year at qualifying, I was making it easy, and then I had a 6, 7 on the last to miss by one.   So then I was probably a bit more nervous. 
And on the third hole, some guy goes to me, here is yourball.   So I hit it, didn't check it and it was the wrong ball.   So if it wasn't for that, I'd cruise through.

Q.   Are you among kidsthat ‑‑
CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, well, I couldn't take‑‑ because of my home school, we didn't have time, and I couldn't take two of them because of the kind of stuff that I needed to do for next year.   But I feel really good, like I've got ‑‑ I have to cheat on my assignments every month and I was like 90 per cent, 95 per cent, 96 per cent in my subjects, so I'm doing pretty good. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
CHARLEY HULL:   Not yet.   I'm doing a few of them next year. 
COLIN CALLANDER:   Thank you very much.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT