KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 29, 2012
Charley Hull
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about the highlights of your round and where you got some birdies. 
CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, I birdied my first ever hole of my first ever major, and that was my first ever pro tournament, so I was pretty chuffed with that. 

Q.   Had to be a great feeling to start the round with.   How did that carry you? 
CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, it was really good.   The next hole I just forgot about it and just carried on playing golf.   It just got me up and excited.

Q.   Yesterday I remember on the green you said you were kind of feeling a little loose, but it must have worked itself out today. 
CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, I wasn't hitting it very good on the range this morning.   I sort of struck it really good out there, like I didn't miss any greens, hit my driver really well, and I hit my irons pretty close today, so I can't complain about that. 

Q.   I wanted to ask you about the Curtis Cup decision, what your reaction to it was. 
CHARLEY HULL:   Well, I'm back in the team now.   I was upset, obviously, but now I'm really happy that I'm back in it.   Now it's history. 

Q.   Did you expect them to reverse the decision?
CHARLEY HULL:   I didn't think too much‑‑ I didn't think they were going to change it for me, but I'm glad they did. 

Q.   You see your friend Jaye Marie is playing pretty well.   Did you hang out with her last night? 
CHARLEY HULL:   I stayed with her two weeks after the Harder Hall.   I've seen her a little bit this week, but I didn't hang around with her much.   I love Jaye.   I hope she does good. 

Q.   This is a pretty big stage for your first professional debut.   Were you overwhelmed when you got here?   Do you feel like you're blending in?
CHARLEY HULL:   It's hard to take it all in, but just trying to concentrate, not try and do anything different to upset my routine. 

Q.   Was there anyone that you wanted to meet or when you were on the range made you nervous? 
CHARLEY HULL:   No, not really.   Like my two favorite golfers in the ladies game at the moment has got to be Lexi Thompson and Yani Tseng, and I was hitting balls next to both be them on the range the other day, and that was pretty good.

Q.   What have you been hearing from home?   What kind of support are you getting?
CHARLEY HULL:   I've had a few Tweets and stuff, but I try not to really look at that and stuff, just keep my head down.

Q.   Who's here with you?
CHARLEY HULL:   My dad and a few friends.   My mum couldn't make it, but she's happy that I'm back in the Curtis Cup.   She can come and watch me over there.

Q.   What's your mom's name?
CHARLEY HULL:   Well, she's Polish.   Her name is Basenka (phon.), but in English it's called Barbara.   I'm half Polish. 

Q.   The LGU just wanted a statement from you about what it means to you to be accepted into the Curtis Cup team and be named to the team. 
CHARLEY HULL:   I'm overwhelmed.   I'm so happy, and it should be great.   We've got a great captain, Teg, so yeah, I'm really looking forward to it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT