AIG WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
August 3, 2019
Charley Hull
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Did how did you turn that round around?
CHARLEY HULL: I didn't really feel like I played that badly on the front nine.  Probably hit one bad shot on the par 3, 8, where I fatted my tee shot, but apart from that I feel like I played pretty well.
Second hole hit a good drive and not a bad second shot but had a 5-iron in, plugged into the bank and didn't manage to get up and down.
Q. What were you saying around the turn to kick start your round?
CHARLEY HULL: I hit some good put on the front nine and wasn't really holing anything and said, gosh, I could be a couple under on the front nine, so if I hit it as good as I hit it on the front nine and make a couple putts, I'll do well.
Q. On 11, what were you seeing reading into this line?
CHARLEY HULL: Hit a good drive and pushed my second shot a little bit.  Chipped it up, left myself with a lengthy birdie putt.  Holed it and then holed a good one next hole as well.
Q. And then this at 13.  What did everything feel like at this point?
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, was feeling good to be fair.  Hit a great iron shot in there and the next hole, the long par three, missed that put, but it was assumer.
Q. Your position now on the leaderboard, you're within striking distance in your home club, clearly playing well, full of confidence.  What's the excitement level for you heading into Sunday?
CHARLEY HULL: I think if I had my front nine that I had yesterday and back nine I had today, I would be doing pretty well.
Q. What did you sharpen in your game on your closing nine to keep you in this championship?
CHARLEY HULL: To be honest, the front nine I didn't actually feel like I hit a really bad shot.  Probably about from the eighth hole where I did fat my tee shot on the par three, but I was feeling pretty confident with my irons.  Didn't hole as many putts on the front nine, and thought to myself on the back nine if I hit it just as good and hole a few putts.
Q. Now going into the final 18, chasing the leader, what mentality do you bring to the golf course tomorrow.
CHARLEY HULL: Hopefully I can have yesterday's front nine and today's back nine and that would be good.  But just go out there, have fun.  I'm hitting it well.  I'm putting well and just got to be confident.
Q. The majority of the fans are rooting for you.  What will you draw from them?
CHARLEY HULL: It's just great that they are out there.  It's really good to see a good tournament like this getting the recognization [sic] with the crowds and stuff and I think would he burn is a great case to have it because it's a good catchment area.  Be good fun out there tomorrow.
Only hit one bad shot on the front nine on the 8th, but apart from that, in my back nine, I thought, I'm hitting it well, just need to hole a few puts and I did, especially in the last hole.  Hit a decent drive, over-drew it, my shot out of the bunker, pleased with that.
Q. Were you aware around the course of what's happening on leaderboards, because at one point the gap was big.
CHARLEY HULL: To be fair, it's annoying because on the front nine there's probably only one leaderboard and there should be more I think to be fair, I think, and so I didn't have a clue of what was going on until I think the 12th hole.
Q. Do you like to know?
CHARLEY HULL: I do sometimes and I don't, depends.  When there's a big lead, I like to look because I think, right, that's what I've got to go for now.
Q. Just a short gap you've got to fill now.  What's the mentality for you?
CHARLEY HULL: Just going to go out there and have fun.  I'm just going to have fun.  Just another day at the office and pretend I'm out there with my friends playing golf.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT