AIG WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
August 1, 2019
Charley Hull
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Very, very impressive.  Is it a little different feeling and emotions playing on your home course in front of so many fans out here to see you?
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, a hundred per cent.  It puts a bit of pressure on me, but I played quite well today.  It's quite tricky because I know where not to miss it.  I know where to miss it, but I know where not to miss it, as well, and in previous years I've hit shots around here, and you just don't want to think of them because obviously it's my home golf course.  I was quite happy with cancelling out all the bad shots I had hit one day and hit some good ones today.
Q. You watched Georgia do it last year at this very event.  How much time during the year do you spend thinking, that's the one I'd love the most?
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, a hundred per cent.  I thought it was great what she did last year, especially for her first one, and under pressure.  A hundred per cent I think it would be great to win on my home turf, but I'm just going to go out there and enjoy it and not going to think ahead because as long as I enjoy being out there on the golf course, that's all that matters to me.
Q. Does the same mentality you've always had stick true this week, which is I hit it, I find it, and I hit it again?
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, look, I went out of that a bit this year and put a bit too much pressure on myself, so I've come back to it, and I feel more confident now.
Q. A great first round, a great way to start the week off.  I love the way you finished on 18.
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, it was great.  The last hole is actually playing quite tricky into the wind.  I hit a 5-iron.  I think the last time I played here in the British Open it was a 9-iron, so that shows you how they've lengthened the course this year, which is good.
Q. There's always a different pressure when you're playing on your home course and it's a major.  How have you handled that pressure differently this year to the previous?
CHARLEY HULL: Well, I haven't really played too much on this golf course.  I've played on the Dukes and the Duchess, and I just played 18 Tuesday and nine holes yesterday -- actually 11 holes yesterday, just kind of been taking it slow, not expecting too much, just going out there and having fun.
Q. You did look very comfortable out there like you were having fun.  How much confidence do you now have building into the rest of this week on what's been a great start?
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, a hundred per cent.  I feel like I've been playing well all year, I've just struggled to trust myself sometimes, so that's where I suppose I haven't been scoring.  But today I just went out there and trusted myself, and I've got to trust myself, and I feel like I'm in a good mindset.
Q. How did you feel out there?
CHARLEY HULL: I felt really good.  I hit a great drive and a great iron shot into 18, followed by a great putt.  So pretty happy with that.
Q. How did your change in mentality help you this week?
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, a hundred per cent.  It felt so much better out there having fun.  I really enjoyed it, and my caddie helped me loads out there today, holed some really good putts, and just out there having fun.
Q. The cheer you got on the last, what was that like?
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, it was great.  Nice to hole the putt, as well.
Q. How can you build on this great start going into the rest of the week?
CHARLEY HULL: Just got to feel focused, still focus.  I just want to go out there and have fun.  That's the main goal this week.
Q. How would you describe how the day went out there?
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, it went really good.  I really enjoyed it out there.  It was good to make a birdie on the second hole, par-5, because sometimes when there's a par-5 early and you don't make a birdie, you feel a bit frustrated.  But that was good.
Q. What was the atmosphere like?  You've got a lot of fans following you, obviously this being a very familiar course for you.
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, sometimes it's harder when it's your home golf course because you know where not to hit it as well as where to hit it.  Like today, for instance, the 13th hole, it's the first time I've hit that fairway for about three years, so I was quite happy about it.
Q. Are you feeling any added pressure with it being your home course and just being at home here?
CHARLEY HULL: I was a little bit, but I'm not now.  I'm just trying to think in my head, just go out there and have fun.  No expectations, just go out there and have fun.  That's the main goal this week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT