ANA INSPIRATION
April 2, 2021
Charley Hull
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Here with Charley Hull.  No better way than to finish off with a birdie.  Take us through the second round here at the ANA Inspiration.
 CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, well, I hit a great drive down my 1st hole which was the 10th, and only had a lob wedge into the pin.  So I kind of started off good there and then birdied obvious the 11th, and then I had so many chances on the front nine, which was the back of the golf course because that's the one that I started on.
 Then I was just playing pretty steady the back nine and I was hitting some great shots in.  The wind picked up and was it nice to finish on a birdie as well.
 Q. This course has always played -- you've always played quite well.  34-under going into this week is your total from 2015.  What is it about this course that brings out the best in your game?
 CHARLEY HULL:   I just really like it.  I have great memories here.  I first played in this event I think when I was 15 years old and my dad -- as an amateur and my dad was here with me.  I just really love it.
 I just like it because it's a quite tight golf course and the rough can be thick and the greens are firm.  I feel like that suits my game because I hit the ball quite high and I'm able to stop it where others find it quite hard.
 Q. I think what's interesting is I just read that on Sunday, because I wasn't at Kia, you went for a run, sprained your ankle a bit just before the major championship.  You said it would not interfere with the major and certainly doesn't seem to be.
 CHARLEY HULL:   No, it doesn't.  Beware the injured golfer they say.  Yeah, I literally went for a 5k run, fell over a pot hole and banged my chin.  I was more embarrassed at the time.  It didn't really hurt.  Carried on with my 5k, played 18 holes at the Kia, and wasn't until after, until I sat down for an hour and I stood up and couldn't walk on it.
 So I rang my friend Jason who used to work for me as a physio.  He told me to ice it and I listened to him and it worked a lot, then the guys here have been strap ping it up for me.  Feels loads better.
 Q. What does it do for your confidence level to have these two opening really great rounds going into the weekend?
 CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, it's great.  If you look at leaders shows that some low scores are out there.  Especially in to the wind this afternoon.  It's completely different to how was it yesterday afternoon.
 So it's actually a boost of the confidence especially because of how tricky it was this afternoon.  I can't wait for the weekend.  I love majors.  This is my favorite major, so I'm excited.
 Q. How comfortable are you playing in the wind given where you grew up?  Do you like to see the wind come up?
 CHARLEY HULL:   I don't mind the wind.  I don't come from a links golf course.  I come from the middle of England so you don't really get that windy.  I don't mind it.  It's good fun.  It's a challenge, so it's fun out there.
 Q. So Megan was talking about how well you play here.  I think what happened to you last year here is the low-grade worry of anyone who has to take a test to board a flight or get into an event.
 CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah.
 Q. What was that like, and are you staying in the same place now that you quarantined last...
 CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, I'm staying in the same hotel because it's right near a group of restaurants that I like so I can get me food easy.  But it's such a horrible thing that happened last year because it was my favorite event.
 But it's just unfortunate and you just got to deal with it.  I was so bored for them ten days that I stayed in my room.  I'm a very pushy person and always have to be doing something, so that was torture to me.
 Q. Did you watch the golf?
 CHARLEY HULL:   I only watched the last day, like the last hole, because I was too upset to watch it.  I felt too jealous of them on the golf course.
 Q. I was told you were asymptomatic when you first took the test.
 CHARLEY HULL:   Well, I did feel a little bit poorly but I thought it was maybe because it was my first long-haul flight in like nine months and I had asthma as well.  Because there was fires and it was quite smokey in the air, so I thought it was my asthma because of the fires.  It wasn't.  It was coronavirus.
 Q. What is your level of every test you've had to take since?  Do you approach it with anymore trepidation than you did before?
 CHARLEY HULL:   No.  I just think if you got it, you got and you got to stay in.  You just got deal with it.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT