AIG WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
August 2, 2019
Charley Hull
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great start yesterday.  How do you reflect on 70, day two?  
CHARLEY HULL: Started off pretty well, and I missed a few putts I should have holed for birdie.  But not too bad.  Actually the ninth hole was a bit of an annoying hole, wrong yardage there, but to be fair had nearly a good up-and-down.  But then made a couple of bogeys through 13, 14, where I should have got up-and-down.  I hit a great 9-iron into I think the 13th hole.  It was a bit frustrating, come up a little short.   
 Q.  That putt, what did you say to steady yourself and hopefully push on for the next few holes?  
CHARLEY HULL: I was thinking to be honest I haven't really hit a bad shot.  Pitched my 4-iron a bit and it hit the slope and pitched the green and just come off.  Wasn't a massively bad shot and thought I could still make some birdies.   
 Q.  Condition of the course, you know this place better than most.  How would you assess it to this point?  
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, they are really good.  Everything's perfect.  It's a little bit slow this afternoon.  That's why I think I missed a few putts to begin with but the golf course is in great condition.  I know this golf course better than anyone -- I don't play this golf course much.  I play the other two more.   
 Q.  Everybody in the media are talking about the home-field advantage.  How have you tried to approach this week given the enormity of what's at stake?  
CHARLEY HULL: I wouldn't say it's an advantage to be honest.  I usually play it like playing one round before I even get to a golf course.  I'm not a person that plays a lot of practice rounds because I like to know not that much about a golf course.  Obviously I know quite a bit about this golf course.  It's just a different approach.   
 Q.  What about the support you've had in the past couple days?  And now you're in this position, what's the excitement level for you?  
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, it was great.  Now I've just got to make some more birdies out there.  Just go out there and have fun, as well.   
 Q.  Where does the game feel now as we come into the weekend?  
CHARLEY HULL: It feels really good.  I felt, after making two bogeys, I said to myself, trust myself, and made birdies on the back of them bogeys, so I was feeling good.   
 Q.  A lot of ebb and flow in your scorecard, three birdies early in the round and three bogeys, birdieing two of your final four.  
CHARLEY HULL: I started well but couldn't get the pace of the greens.  Felt they were a bit slower.  But then I made a couple of bogeys after -- one of them was on a pretty good shot on I think it's the 13th.  I hit a great 9-iron in and it just come up a little bit short and didn't get up-and-down, missed a couple of putts and holed a few to finish with, so ended on a positive.   
 Q.  When players are playing in front of their home crowd, so to speak or their home area, it can be a blessing and encouragement but sometimes can be a distraction.  How have you been able to make this such a positive?  
CHARLEY HULL: I'm not sure.  I sometimes like being the underdog.  When I play Solheim and that in America, the crowd is cheering against you, I always preferred that.  I don't know why.  Just got to stay focused around here.   
 Q.  We talked about you and your fiance, Ozzie Smith, how you work out together.  How much has that discipline of pushing your body helped you mentally maybe inside the ropes?  
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, really good.  He trains me really hard in the gym.  Does little things like I could be slacking on the running machine or something and he just pushes me hard.  To do that, it helps you in your round, as well, mentally.  Just keeps you fitter and mentally stronger in my mind.  I don't do as many weights anymore, more just balancing stuff.   
 Q.  7-under, would you have taken that before things started?  
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, I would have.  Happy with my finish.  Had a bounce back at the end with a couple birdies.   
 Q.  What did you say to yourself after those two holes with the back-to-back bogeys to reset your mind-set and bounce back as well as you did?  
CHARLEY HULL: I said to myself, I'm hitting it well, why can't I make a couple of birdies, as well and I did that.   
 Q.  Is that the biggest positive; the fact that you were able to bounce back?  
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, 100 per cent and I felt like I hit it pretty well and I was really happy with myself.  Just going to work on a few putts and hopefully hole a few more tomorrow.   
 Q.  It's a funny game, golf, isn't it, but give you good confidence going into the weekend?  
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, if I piece them both together, I feel like I'm going to have a low one but I'm not going to think about that.  I'm just going to enjoy the weekend, sometime out there and hopefully have a good weekend.   
 Q.  The crowds following you were huge.  Must be great to play in front of that.  Do you feed off that when you're out there?  
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, it's good, it's quite funny because my fiance's family has come out there, as well.  His dad is like, "Come on, Girl," after I made a couple bogeys.  They don't play golf, either, but it's nice they came out to support me.   
 Q.  What do you do to mentally prepare yourself now?  
CHARLEY HULL: Sleep, watch movies and go gym.  I like going to the gym on a tournament week.  I feel a lot fresher and I feel like I've prepared well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT