ANA INSPIRATION
April 1, 2021
Charley Hull
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Charley, what a fantastic opening round 69.  Talk about your day.
 CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, it was good.  I felt like I plotted my way around, putted a lot better, didn't miss any two-foot putts this week like I did last week.
 I birdied the 2nd hole.  Hit a good one, got on the green, and then obviously bogeyed the 3rd.
 But the back nine was where I got it going.  That eagle on 11 was a tricky chip and went for the bump-and-run and I holed it.
 And the last hole I hit a great drive.  Only had like 184 to the pin and it would usually be a 7-iron, but with obviously the water in front it was just two yards too far, so I just hit a little baby 6-iron in, on the green, and two-putted for birdie, and that was my 3-under.
 Q. And when you had been thinking about it, had you planned to go for the 18th?
 CHARLEY HULL:   I didn't realize the tee box that was forward, but, yeah, I have it in my head that I felt better with my longer irons than I do if I had a sand wedge in my hand.  So I need to work on my pitching obviously.
 But, yeah, I feel more confident with a long iron, so it was silly hot to go for it.
 Q. How far in was it?
 CHARLEY HULL:   I had 184 to the pin.
 Q. Perfect.
 CHARLEY HULL:   So it was like 175 to the front.
 Q. Last week you sprained your ankle very slightly and you're still wearing strapping.
 CHARLEY HULL:   Uh-huh.
 Q. Talk a little bit about that.
 CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, it doesn't actually hurt at all when I hit balls now.  I was panicking on Monday quite a lot because it was very sore.  But, yeah, the physio's done a great job.  And I rang my friend up who used to be my physio for me, Jason Matthew, and he kind of got me icing it on Sunday night and that.
 Yeah, I'm grateful and I can play this week.  It's fine.  I just can't go gym which I'm a bit upset about.  I'll start that next week.
 Q. And there is no shots it bothers you on?
 CHARLEY HULL:   No.  No, not really, no.
 Q. So the course is playing very hard and fast.  Is that right up your alley?
 CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, I love that because I hit it quite spin-y and hit my irons in high, so I like it.
 Q. And this has been a course that you've played well at in the past.  Obviously last year you missed out having --
 CHARLEY HULL:   -- COVID.
 Q. Yes.  How special is it to start this year off?
 CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, this was my first event as an amateur I ever played in a pro event and I finished like 30th and that was great.  I've come second in this event to Lydia and had some good results and I love it here.
 It's got great memories of being here with my dad as well.  Unfortunately obviously he can't be here because of COVID, but I love it here.  It's great.
 Q. What is it about the course or the area or the whole feeling?
 CHARLEY HULL:   I just think the golf course is a proper golf course.  That's what I like.  Rough is thick, greens are firm, and you got to hit good golf shots.  You've got to draw it.  You've got it fade it.  Yeah, so I like it.
 Q. Perfect.  What are you off to do this afternoon?
 CHARLEY HULL:   Can't do much, so I'll probably just watch some TV and order some food in.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT