ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS LADIES SCOTTISH OPEN
July 28, 2018
Charley Hull
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Another solid round today in Scotland at level par.  You're at 2-under par for the tournament.  Tell me your thoughts?
CHARLEY HULL: Um, yeah, I played really good today.  Um, started off with some birdies, first two holes, and then, um, just played steady golf from there.  The wind is so windy.
I holed some good putts, and it was just a hard finish and I'm pretty happy with the way I played, and it's just playing ridiculously -- 16th hole is just unplayable green.  It's crazy.  I hit it to, I hit my putt just about three to five feet away and it rolled down to about 20 feet.  Just rolled a 5-wood, so I bogeyed that hole.  I nearly holed the 20-footer but -- and the last, the 17th hole, was tricky.  It's crazy how much the wind is making you hit longer irons in than you should be.
Q. Is it a different wind to the first two days?
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, different direction kind of a little bit.
Q. So is the front nine goes downwind and the back is sort of into?
CHARLEY HULL: Into and side winds, yeah, it's just very awkward.
Q. Do you get a feeling the front nine you're trying to make the score and hold on at the back?
CHARLEY HULL: Exactly, especially the last few holes.
Q. I've heard a lot of players say that they would not reach the 13th in two.  What did you hit?
CHARLEY HULL: I hit driver, 4-iron and 9-iron.
Q. And you weren't in trouble?
CHARLEY HULL: No, I just hit a good drive and it just went about 210.
Q. But the downwind holes, did you have any significant drives?
CHARLEY HULL: Not really.  I drove the fifth hole, and then 2-putted from the back of the green.  I suppose a few people have did that today, have they.
Q. Yes, we've actually had Carlota nearly drove the 18th, just a few groups ahead of you.  That's an indication of how windy it is?
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah.
Q. Looking ahead to tomorrow, would you like the conditions to stay like this?
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, like this, probably a little bit less windier, but I wouldn't mind it being like this.  I like it.
Q. Are you going to be keeping your eyes on the scoreboard and see if it comes back to you?
CHARLEY HULL: The top of the leaderboard, the players are coming back, so I think just go out there, be patient.
Q. Do you have a number in mind that you might need to get to?
CHARLEY HULL: I reckon if the wind stays like this tomorrow, six or seven.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT