ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS LADIES SCOTTISH OPEN
July 26, 2018
Charley Hull
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  4-under, are you happy with that?  
CHARLEY HULL: Um, yeah, I'm happy with the way I hit it.  Um, I played pretty steady today.  I left a lot of shots out there on the back nine.  I had so many birdie chances and I didn't manage to get any, but um, you know, 4-under was pretty windy.  I'm kind of happy with that, especially not playing links for a whole year.   
 Q.  There were a few putts that on another day, you would have seen --  
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, for sure, like I had so many chances, pretty much every hole on the back nine.  Some days you get it like that.  I'm happy with my score out there and hopefully I'll hole a few more tomorrow.   
 Q.  Is it nice to be back playing some links golf?  
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, it really is.  I really enjoy it.  I said on Twitter a couple days ago that I wish there was more, more tournaments, because I don't know, it's a bit of a change and it's a bit more fun and it's nice to be at home.   
 Q.  I know you love it when the conditions are a bit more extreme.  You sort of think the creme rises, almost?  
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, definitely, 100 per cent, I love it.  You have to have an imagination and you have to strike it pretty well because, you know, you've gotta make sure your landing areas are pretty good because it's pretty hard and it's bouncy, as well.  I think on 10, 10 today it was downwind and I hit my 3-wood into the -- 350-yard bunker like it was that bouncy, that much downwind.  It was ridiculous.   
 Q.  Great par save at the last, important not to bogey it?  
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, I hit a good shot in but it just bounced.  The wind gusted and then it was back into the breeze and a little bit uphill and I left it about eight-foot short but I'm pretty happy about holing that because I'm certainly in a good mood going into tomorrow.   
 Q.  Is that 3-wood the longest shot you hit today?  
CHARLEY HULL: I think so.  I can't remember but was stupid because it went in the bunker.  Yesterday it was a little bit into the wind and I hit driver like 30 yards short or 40 yards short.  It was ridiculous.   
 Q.  Is that encouraging, going into tomorrow?  Do you feel like you can pick up a few more shots tomorrow?  
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, I feel like I've been playing well all season, so tomorrow's just another day.   
 Q.  You talked about bouncing conditions but these --  
CHARLEY HULL: Pretty bouncy.  Because especially the last hole it was ridiculous, like, I don't know, it's just a bit of a guessing game sometimes.   
 Q.  Does that make it a tougher test?  
CHARLEY HULL: It does.  I suppose it does because you've got to be more patient because you can get unlucky a little bit more.   
 Q.  Is that something you're good at, patience on a golf course?  
CHARLEY HULL: I suppose I am.  Today when I hit it in a bunker, I got a little bit frustrated and let it get to me but I've learnt from that.  Yeah, I would say I'm pretty patient on the golf course.   
 Q.  Have you got anything planned for this evening?  Are you going away from the course now?  
CHARLEY HULL: No, my boyfriend's here this week so I'm just going to go and chill with him and get an early night because I'm off at ten past 7.00 tomorrow.   
 Q.  What was your best birdie?  
CHARLEY HULL: Best birdie?  I don't know, I hit a good shot into the first.  I was quite happy with that because it's my first time my boyfriend's been to a golf event, so at least he sees me -- opening the hole, making the birdie.   
 Q.  What did you hit for your second shot?  
CHARLEY HULL: 8-iron.  I didn't hit a very good drive.   
 Q.  What distance putt?  
CHARLEY HULL: About a 5-foot putt.   
 Q.  You said it's his first golf event but he knows a bit about golf and he knows a good score, he understands?  
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, he does understand.  He actually has watched it a few times, like when I play in America and like when it's on the majors and stuff, he's watched on TV.  He's played like a few holes by himself with his pals because they play back home, but nothing -- not really walking around a golf course.  But I'm pretty proud of him because like, he knows when to be quiet and everything, because by himself, he's walking by himself, it must be quite hard if you don't know what you're doing, you know what I mean.   
 Q.  Is he here?  
CHARLEY HULL: He's back in the hotel room.   
 Q.  What's his name?  
CHARLEY HULL: Ozzie.  He did walk for the first five holes -- eight holes.   
 Q.  What's his last name?  
CHARLEY HULL: Smith.   
 Q.  Is he from your sort of neck of the woods?  
CHARLEY HULL: He's about an hour from where I live.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT