KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 28, 2018
Charley Hull
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Charley, will you sum up the day for us?  
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, I played pretty well.  I just slipped quite a few times on a few shots, but I felt like I putted quite well, I hit it quite well, and a decent day, apart from bogeying the last, but it was a good day.   
 Q.  Physically slipped?  
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, I slipped.  Well, I mean, slipped, my foot on my swing.   
 Q.  Overall how was the course?  How challenging was the course?  
CHARLEY HULL: I think it's a very scorable golf course.  I do.  For me, I personally think it is.  The greens are stopping.  I think the ball is flying quite far, so I feel I can carry quite a few of the bunkers.  You know, I think the greens are in great condition so you can hole putts.   
 Q.  A couple top 10s in major championships this year.  Do you feel like you've been rising to the occasion?  
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, I like majors.  They're my favorite weeks.  I just think the golf courses, they suit me better, because they're tricked up a bit more, and I like that.  I enjoy it.   
 Q.  Do you put more pressure on yourself to win a major since you feel like they suit you?  
CHARLEY HULL: No, not really.  I just go out there and play.   
 Q.  Where is your game at right now, and how much has it evolved over the last few years?  
CHARLEY HULL: Well, I think this is my best start of the season I've had in my career.  Well, apart from my first year on the LET, but on the LPGA.  I've had a few top 10s, quite a few top 10s in majors -- well, both the majors so far this year, and then I've had a few more top 10s, and I feel like I'm just playing really good.  I just feel my game is in great shape.   
 Q.  The CME victory, it's not a major, but in some ways it feels like it because it's the season ender and all of that.  How much of a boost has that been for you going forward?  
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, definitely it benefitted me a lot.  That win was really good because before I played that golf course, the year before, I wasn't a fan of it.  Like I didn't feel like it suited my eye.  And ever since I've won around there, I like it, and I feel more comfortable around it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT