ANA INSPIRATION
March 31, 2021
Charley Hull
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Charley, how is your ankle and you can you tell us a little bit about how you hurt it?
 CHARLEY HULL:   Yes, it's loads better now actually.  It was Sunday morning I went on a 5k run and I fell off over a pot hole.  Yeah, fell over a pothole and I twisted my ankle and just fell like straight down onto my chin, and got up and shook it off and like nothing hurt, so I carried on with my 5k run, and then played 18 holes of golf.
 It wasn't until I sat in the car for like an hour and we got out to get an In-n-Out and it was so sore I couldn't even walk on it.  So iced it all that night, and then Monday I took off.  I just putted and hit a couple of pitches, and it's been fine ever since.
 Q. What did the physio say, like a sprain?
 CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, a mild sprain, not too severe.  And it's been tight in my calf so I been massaging it.  Yeah, it's not a problem at all now.
 Q. And this isn't very hilly this course.
 CHARLEY HULL:   No, it's not that hilly.  It's just like a bit wavy.  Yeah, it will be fine.  I just won't go gym for like a couple weeks just so it's (indiscernible).
 Q. That would be hard for you.
 CHARLEY HULL:   I know, yeah, but I think I needed to take a little bit off the gym because I was working out way too much, like twice a day.
 Q. Oh, wow.
 CHARLEY HULL:   I was just getting bored so I was just working out.
 Q. And with the situation of sort of not being able to go out to restaurants, it's tempting.
 CHARLEY HULL:   Yes, it is.  It's boring in the hotel rooms at the minute.  Usually you break your day up by going to the restaurant in the evening.  Instead you're just ordering take out and getting it in.  Yeah, it's just quite boring.
 Q. Definitely.  And tell my about your year so far, how you've been playing.  You had a good week last week.
 CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, (indiscernible) last week; finished 8th the week before, and then the first week I was just warming up.
 Yeah, feel like may game is in good condition.  Just need to get the putter working.  I feel because like last year I had a good end of the year as well, so just kind of continue that.
 Q. Tell me how you find the course this week.
 CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, it is in perfect condition.  It seems to be a lot more grass on the golf course this year.  Like a lot of usually the run-offs, it doesn't run down as far off the run-offs.
 But the grass is in like perfect condition.  You can't fool it at all.
 Q. How do you feel about the 18th?
 CHARLEY HULL:   I don't like it without the grandstand.  I think it's completely different.  Obviously I didn't play it last year because I got to like the 4th hole of the practice round and...
 But, yeah, it is in great condition.
 Q. And do you think you'll go for it?
 CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, I went for it yesterday, 3-wood.  Just stopped it on the -- it's a shame, because usually people play to that back left side because it is a tricky hot anyway, but, yeah, it's made it a bit different.
 Q. Quite a dramatic finish.
 CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, well it used to always be a dramatic finish, but it will be even more dramatic.
 Q. Perfect.  Tell me what you've been working on on the break.
 CHARLEY HULL:   Just been practicing most, just to be fair.  Went out to Dubai, done loads of work out there and West Palm and done some work.
 Q. Anything particularly you're working on?
 CHARLEY HULL:   Not really, no.  But at the minute I'm trying to work on my putting.  I've shot (indiscernible - wind) par last week, so, yeah, putting.
 I think putting is mentally as well, so in the off weeks we've been working on it a lot.  I think it's more confidence.
 Q. And you've done well here before.
 CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah.
 Q. This is one your favorite tournaments.
 CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, it really is one of my favorite tournaments.  It's great and I've got good memories as well because it was the first professional event I ever played in as an amateur as well.  I was like 15 and my dad always used to come out here with me.  I'm going to miss him this week.  But it's good.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT