RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
August 2, 2017
Charley Hull
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








COLIN CALLANDER: 12 months ago this championship was at your home course, Woburn and you were under a lot of pressure I would imagine in.  This must be more relaxed this time around?
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, a little bit.  At the top of Scotland, far from Woburn.  Just feels normal.  Like a normal event.  Obviously a major.
COLIN CALLANDER: You've had a chance to see the course a couple of times.  What are your initial feelings about it.
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, I think it's really nice.  It's actually one of my favourite golf courses now.  Now I've played it a few times and I love the views and I think they are pretty amazing.  I was walking along eighth hole, which is actually the ninth, but the eighth of the golf course we'll be playing it -- the golf course and it's amazing.
COLIN CALLANDER: When is the first time you actually played the course?
CHARLEY HULL: A couple weeks ago in the RICOH Media Day.
Q. What makes it one of your favourite courses?  What do you like about it?
CHARLEY HULL: I think it's a really fair links golf course.  You hit a good shot, you're going to get rewarded.  And I kind of like the greens.  Actually they are rolling quite nice.  They are quite slow but I don't think they can make them super fast because of the wind (indiscernible).  And you're near St. Andrews, as well.  You just feel like you're at the Home of Golf.
Q. I think you had five birdies and an eagle when you played here for the first time.
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, I did.
Q. Is that the sort of best immediate impact you've had on a golf course?
CHARLEY HULL: Sorry.  Can you say that again?
Q. Is that the best sort of immediate impact you've had on a golf course?
CHARLEY HULL: As I can remember, but on that day I just holed a few putts and I did play pretty good.  But I've been playing some matches with my friends even over the past couple of days here and practise rounds had a few matches and stuff and I feel like I'm playing it quite well.  I think I like this golf course a lot.  I think it looks visually very nice off the tee for my eye.
Q. As a Scotsman, it pains me to say this, but Englishwomen, they won the Rugby World Cup and have won the Cricket World Cup, the Lionesses are in the semifinals in France tomorrow night.  What's going on with women's sport in England and what would a win for an English girl do this week?
CHARLEY HULL: I don't know.  Everyone must be playing quite well.  And for me to win this week, it would be great.  Obviously winning like my home event, the British Open.  It would be awesome to join in with what everyone else are doing in sport.  It would be cool.
Q. Given the lack of events that have been on the Ladies European Tour this season, how thankful are you that you earned your LPGA Tour card when you did, and do you sympathise for your friends that are playing on the Ladies European Tour?
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, definitely going to America was a good thing.  I enjoy it over there.  I feel like I've done pretty well over there the past few years.
Yeah, I feel sorry for the girls in the LET, but I reckon they will be fine in the next couple years hopefully.  But I don't really look into it too much.  I just try and concentrate on my golf.
Q. Have you changed anything in your golf bag this week?  Have you put an extra iron in?  Taken out a hybrid?
CHARLEY HULL: No, I changed my putter because I got it measured and it had like two degrees of loft in it and I have like a forward press, which is like no loft at all.  ^ I need a little bit.  It's back to four and I feel like I'm rolling it a lot better.
Q. So say that again.  So your putter, you just found out you had two degrees of loft on it, and now what is it?
CHARLEY HULL: It's four now.  It's exactly the same but I think obviously from travelling, it's been, like, knocked in my golf travel bag or something.  So, yeah, just put the new one in and it looks a lot more new now.
Q. And it's all better?  And you're still using your forward press?
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah.
Q. What putter is it?
CHARLEY HULL: Scotty Cameron.  I've had it for like a couple years but this one sent to me is like brand new this week.  Because they only just sent it.  But I like got all my markings on it and like my name on it and Liverpool and FC and stuff like that.
Q. When did you notice?  How did you know it was two degrees?
CHARLEY HULL: I didn't notice but my dad noticed, because we went to get measured in the Tour van to see if they were the same.  And he remembered that when we went to Scotty Cameron last time, that I did have like four degrees on it, and it's moved.
COLIN CALLANDER: Did you not have a similar problem at Q-School?
CHARLEY HULL: I did.  My putter was bent.  Like I think there was loads of stuff wrong with my putter then.
COLIN CALLANDER: Did you use it during Q-School?
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, but I found out after Q-School.  But that was a different putter.  That wasn't a Scotty Cameron.  That was a different on.
COLIN CALLANDER: You've had trouble with putters over the years.
CHARLEY HULL: I have, yeah, but this is not too much of a trouble.  It was just my fault for not checking it.
Q. Going back to how well English girls are doing, and obviously it's great, but a bit worried about it myself, supporting an England team.  But when Rafa won The Scottish Open, he won something like 82 per cent more money than the girl who won the Scottish Women's Open last week.  Is that fair, and do you see that changing any time soon?
CHARLEY HULL: I don't know, really.  I suppose because men have more coverage, so then more people watch it.  So it's better sponsorship, best for the sponsors.  But I don't know.  I think it's getting there, but I can't answer that question though.  I don't think about it too much.
COLIN CALLANDER: Charley, thank you very much indeed.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT