RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
August 4, 2017
Charley Hull
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Slow start with the three bogeys but turned it around.  Are you happy with a 71 on Friday?  
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, I'm quite pleased with it.  Couple of bogeys I started with, I hit good putts and they just kind of died out toward the hole and lipped-out.  I'm happy with the way I played today and still left a few out there but it's not too bad.   
 Q.  Last year the RICOH Women's British Open was a course at your home course, Woburn, a huge week for you.  How is it different this time around being in Scotland?  
CHARLEY HULL: Well, obviously we're back on links golf courses and it's not my home golf course so there's not as much pressure.  This year, the weather, have to deal with the winds and the rain, and you stopped yesterday and you've just got to be patient.  I'd say you have to be more patient this year.   
 Q.  What will you do for the next 24 hours?  
CHARLEY HULL: I'm going to go and practise a little bit and then go gym and go have a bit of physio and eat loads of food.   
 Q.  It's quite a tough start this morning but you certainly turned it around.  How do you assess the round?  
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, a good day.  The bogeys early on, I didn't really do much wrong.  I just kind of missed a couple of putts.  But I hit some good putts; they just kind of wobbled a little bit.   
I had fun.  Quite happy the way I finished.  Birdie on 17 in my round made my round a lot better.   
 Q.  Tough start conditions-wise, pretty cold this morning.  How much of a grind was it to get going?  
CHARLEY HULL: Wasn't too bad.  The wind was actually up quite a bit and the second hole I had a bit of a downslope and the wind was blowing pretty hard off the left.  So I hit a decent striped shot, and it just stayed left into the rough because I thought it was going to fade loads.  You just have to deal with them little things on links golf courses, getting awkward lies, but I came back from it strong.   
 Q.  Four back, where do you think that will sit at the end of play?  
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, I'm not sure what the weather is going to be like but I feel quite confident going into the weekend and I feel like that's a good place to be.   
 Q.  How aggressive can you be on this course?  
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, you can go pretty aggressive around here and I'm striking it quite well and I feel like I've been quite good with my irons today.  Just a couple of shots that went a little bit long because I stroke it too good, allowing for the wind and it went through it.  You can be very aggressive and the greens are stopping pretty good and they are rolling out nicely.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT