RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
August 3, 2017
Charley Hull
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Charley, 4-under par round of 68 today.  Slightly challenging conditions this afternoon, two weather delays.  Was it frustrating or how would you sum up your opening round?  
CHARLEY HULL: You know, I was pretty happy about my round.  Shame about the three-putt on 17 and 16, but I actually hit good shots into the greens there, just three-putted as the greens were a bit slow because I think the rain came in.  But 17 I felt I hit a good putt, it just bobbled a little bit.  It was only like two feet.  But I'm pretty happy with the way I'm hitting it, and I'm looking forward to tomorrow's round.   
 Q.  You play most of your golf on the LPGA Tour now; how nice is it to come back and play in front of a home crowd?  
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, it's pretty cool.  It's not as home as it was last year because that was at my home golf course, but it's good to be in Scotland again, and I like playing Kingsbarns.  I think it's a lovely golf course.   
 Q.  You're a big fan of St. Andrews I hear; is that right?  
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, I love St. Andrews.  I went out and watched my friends play the last three holes two days ago.  That was quite funny.   
 Q.  Very solid round; how do you assess it?  
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, quite good.  I feel like I'm confident in my game, and shame about the last couple of holes, but the greens kind of slowed up with the rain and stuff, and I left them short.  I pulled the putt a little bit on 16, but 17 it bobbled, and you can't do much about that.  But I'm happy with my round.   
 Q.  And the high point, I'm sure that eagle at 11?  
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, it was a great shot, a good drive, and I had about 250 to the green, hit my rescue on to there about six feet and holed the putt.   
 Q.  You threw your club down at one point; are you quite hard on yourself?  It was a pretty solid round on the whole.  
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, probably just like a little bit got heated, but I don't usually throw my clubs.  But I think the ball went down to where I was in the practice rounds and I don't want to be down there.  But I think I sometimes get hard on myself.  I have been lately, but I've just got to relax.   
 Q.  How do you feel like you're playing?  It's still very early.  You're very well-positioned heading into that second round.  What's key tomorrow?  
CHARLEY HULL: I think tomorrow I've just got to stay patient.  Again, just glad we got it in today with the weather.  I don't know what it's supposed to be like tomorrow, but hopefully in the morning it'll be a little bit calmer and we won't have as much rain, but I'm looking forward to it, and I'm just going to go out there and have fun and hopefully shoot a good score.   
 Q.  When you say you got to play in the rain, how did you handle it?  
CHARLEY HULL: I don't know, I just like playing in it.  I just kind of like -- what's the word?   
 Q.  Challenge?  
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, like the challenge and the struggle.  I like the battle.  I like the battle.  I think it's more fun.   
 Q.  Anything else about your round today?  
CHARLEY HULL: Nope, nothing.   
 Q.  How is the putter settling in?  
CHARLEY HULL: Nice.   
 Q.  What were some of the differences?  
CHARLEY HULL: I don't know really.  I liked it a lot.  I feel like it strikes nice, and I'm confident going into tomorrow.   
 Q.  Do you feel like finding out the loft has really sort of made peace in your mind?  
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, I can see it's rolling better.   
 Q.  You just have more confidence?  
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, definitely.   
 Q.  Have you already spoke about your eagle?  
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah.   
 Q.  Take us through your clubs if that's okay.  
CHARLEY HULL: Hit a driver down there, and I had 250 yards to the pin, and I hit a draw with a rescue wood to six feet, and I holed it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT