HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 2, 2017
Charley Hull
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Very good start to the tournament.
CHARLEY HULL: I played pretty well to begin with actually.  I just lipped-out on a few birdie putts to start off with but I'm pretty happy with my first round.  I feel like my game in really good condition.  Felt like it was in good condition, as well, last week, so I'm warming up nicely for the rest of the season.  I left a few out there.  Actually I did leave quite a few but I'm happy with that.  It's a new golf course, haven't played it before.  I'm looking forward to tomorrow, as well.
Q. How do you find the course compared to the Serapong of last year?
CHARLEY HULL: I liked the Serapong but I like this one, as well.  You can score low around this golf course.  It's scorable.  It's in really good condition, so I like it.
Q. Does it suit your game?
CHARLEY HULL: I think it suits my game.
Q. Is there any particular hole that you think, well, that's going to be a good one for me?
CHARLEY HULL: No, not really.  I just like the whole golf course.  I think it's a nice setup.
Q. And you're happy with your driving?
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah.
Q. Just need a few more to drop?
CHARLEY HULL: I'm reading them good.  Just some days, you just don't get them in.  But they are going in the hole, so that's good.
Q. Do you feel different after winning last year?  Do you feel more confident?
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, I do feel a lot more confident.  I feel happy in my game now.  I feel like now I know what to do when I'm under pressure.  Yeah, I'm buzzing.
Q. A very different feeling coming out on your second year on Tour from your first.  Can you talk about that?
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, like I feel like I know what events I like playing in and stuff, and you know what you get now when you come to a tournament.  So I know what to expect.
Q. So you're not playing so many new courses for the first time?
CHARLEY HULL: Exactly, so I don't have to play as many practice rounds.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT