OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 10, 2016
Charley Hull
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Thoughts on that?  That was very good.
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, today I kind of woke up and got into my golf game.  I've been a bit lazy all week I felt on the golf course but today I got in there and kind of concentrated.  Today I did and I felt good.  I holed a few putts today and I missed a lot of putts -- it was on the edge.  I hit a lot of good putts out there.  Kind of evened itself out.  Hit it pretty well, pretty decent and it was really windy today.  So I'm quite happy with my score in them conditions.
Q. Does that make you feel for once that this was a 72-hole tournament again?
CHARLEY HULL: Well, it's not going to feel like a 72-hole tournament but it actually does, because I got to play both days, like nine holes, nine holes, and then 18, 18, so it wasn't too bad for me.  I felt like I played golf every day.  But for other people, they probably won't, who didn't get out in the morning Wednesday.
I like the tournament.  It's great.  I put a good performance in I feel like for my sponsors, OMEGA.  I've had fun this week but now I'm really looking forward to fly home tonight.  Can't wait to get back to England because it's Christmas and I've had a long season.  I'm really looking forward to having some time off and starting again in the Bahamas.
Q. How were conditions?
CHARLEY HULL: They were very tricky out there today because it was so windy and the wind was gusting and it would change direction, and it would be off like 11 o'clock and it would come and be off like eight o'clock, so it was just kind of like that.  I felt like me and my caddie got the wind quite well today.  I'm pretty pleased with my performance and the way Adam kind of helped me out there with the wind.
Q. You had a couple really close ones on 13, 14.  Could have been even better?
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, it could have been.  Like 13, 14, 15, it edged the hole and I thought it was in.  I was close.  It was good.  Let's see what Shanshan does, but she's not going to screw up from here because they are birdieable finishing holes.
No, I'm happy with my performance and hopefully I'm -- whatever.
Q. Good way to end the year?
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, it is a good way to end the year.  So it was fun.
Q. Will you look at the leaderboard, watch the rest of the coverage or will you stay away from it?
CHARLEY HULL: No, I'm just going to go to the gym.  I don't think she's going to drop any shots from here.  Yeah, it will be good.
Q. Are you kicking yourself a little bit, because you said you were a bit lazy the first couple of days?
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, I am.  It was just hard to concentrate I felt.  But I kind of woke up today.  Adam was like, yesterday in the round -- Adam, I can't get into it.
And he said, just slap yourself.
Q. That was a hell of a charge today, might not be enough in the end but you must be very proud of yourself?
CHARLEY HULL: I'm very happy with the way I performed today.  I woke up today a little bit.  I've been a bit lazy the first couple of days.  Like I said to my caddie, "I can't get into my golf."
So he said, "Slap yourself."  I did yesterday, but halfway through my round.  Happy with my performance today.  Pretty windy out there.  A couple clubs' wind on some holes.  I did a solid performance and it's a good way to end the year shooting 7-under par.
Q. Some putts came very close to dropping.  Could have been really, really good score.
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, could have been a really good score, from 13, 14, 15, them putts just edged but my friend text me this morning, he goes, if you shoot 65 or lower, he's going to kit off by the tree.  So I shot 65 or lower now, so he's got to do it now.  You've got to do it, James.
Q. There was a Tweet last night, as well as this morning, excited for the final round.
CHARLEY HULL: I said to my caddie, if I shoot 7- or 8-under, I've got a good chance of it and I went out there and shot 7-under, so I was pretty pleased.  It's a windy day and it suited me to go out low.  I posted a good one.  I enjoy playing in the wind.  It was pretty tricky.  A couple players have fallen back and I'm happy with my performance.
Q. What makes it helpful for you, the windy conditions?
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, I do.  I don't know.  I feel like I strike it pretty good and my ball kind of goes a bit more through the wind, so I don't have to allow for it as much.  I just like the feel of playing in the wind, because I know a few people will be struggling, but I enjoy it.  I've always enjoyed playing in windy conditions and it's fun.  It was good.
Q. How was the experience playing out here in Dubai again?
CHARLEY HULL: It was really good.  I enjoy it because my sponsor is OMEGA and it's good to put a good performance in for them.  It's a lot of fun and knowing that Christmas is soon and going to have a few weeks off because it's been a long year, especially with my win a couple weeks ago on the LPGA Tour.  So I can just like relax now and start again at the Bahamas at the end of January.
I could have been way better the first to days, but it's all a learning curve and just got to get in there and focus.  I struggle to focus sometimes, so I kind of woke up.  My caddie said, slap your face halfway around yesterday, so I did, and I kind of woke up a bit.  I with as 3- or 4-under on the back nine yesterday.  Apart from that, I'm pretty happy.
Q. What tree?
CHARLEY HULL: Kit off by the tree.  It's like a Christmas tree -- everyone does it.  Haven't you heard of it?  You get naked in front of the Christmas tree and you hide around the Christmas tree and hide your bits, and he's got to do it in the middle of the golf course.  And we're going to put some baubles on it because it's actually like a proper black pine tree.  He goes today:  "If you shoot 65 or better," he's got to do it, and I did.
Q. What club is this?
CHARLEY HULL: Catching Golf Club.
Q. And what hole is it?
CHARLEY HULL: The 18th, just off the tee.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT