OLYMPIC GAMES RIO 2016: GOLF
August 19, 2016
Charley Hull
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How did you find it? 
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, it was tricky out there in that wind. It was so windy on the back nine. Like it was super windy.
But I missed quite a few short putts from like inside five feet, which is a bit annoying. But the wind can kind of be hard with that because they can move the ball and sometimes you can laugh (ph) and it doesn't move. 
Apart from that, I played kind of decent. I scrambled quite well. But I'm happy ‑‑ I' happy with the position that I'm in. And I'm only in, what, fifth position, tied fifth position. That's nothing, like, going into tomorrow, because what, I'm only, what, five behind the lead. I'm not that much at all. So anything can happen on a Sunday in a major‑‑ well, the Olympics.

Q. Are you treating it‑‑ does it feel like a major now?
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, it feels like a major. It's good fun. I like it out there. It's good. And the golf course is really tricky and I like it in the wind. It's a good, fun golf course to play.

Q. Is it a strange setup because you know going into tomorrow there's three prizes on offer, and even at some point gold is gone, you have to look for that third place, as well?
CHARLEY HULL: You don't really look at gold's gone because it's not gone yet. It's only five ahead. But you don't really think like first, second and third. Because if you played for third and come up short and come fourth, what's the point. You search for first place and come short, you still win a medal. So I don't look at is as top three. I look at it as one. That's what I want to win. 

Q. Would you rather it was windy tomorrow like this? 
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, it doesn't really bother me to be honest. You just play your own game. At the end of the day, a golf course is a golf course and it has a bit of wind and it's fun, but if it doesn't, you can still go low.

Q. You've played obviously in tough conditions before. How difficult was it? 
CHARLEY HULL: It was super windy. It was quite tricky because these greens are very, like, island greens, so if you miss a green, you've got to have a good short game to get up‑and‑down and. Fortunately today I did; I did get up‑and‑down well. 
I was quite happy with that because it's something I worked on last week from British Open because I didn't chip very well at British Open, because I wasn't‑‑ it was so weird. Like coming from America back to England, I wasn't quite actually used to the grass because it was so firm underneath, and I'm not used to Woburn being like that. 
But anyway, I practiced a lot on my short game and it seems to be going all right this week, so I'm quite happy with that. Shows if you work on stuff, it works.

Q. Has Jaime been giving you any tips? He thinks of himself as a bit of a short game guru‑‑
CHARLEY HULL: No, he hasn't really, but he was just telling me where not to miss it in the practice rounds, which is pretty cool. I did miss it in one place and I got up‑and‑down, so I'm quite happy with that.

Q. Was watching Park out there pretty impressive? She looks pretty unmovable. 
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, she's good. I didn't watch too much. Just play my own game, when it's windy like that, you've got to concentrate. But yeah, solid.

Q. Do you think you can catch her, though? 
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, I can catch anyone on a good day.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT