CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 17, 2016
Charley Hull
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Have you had any crazy adventures at home?  I see some pictures every once in a while.  
CHARLEY HULL: Well, I was only home for four days.  I didn't touch a golf club.  Hung out with my friends.   
 Q.  So you felt relaxed then?  
CHARLEY HULL: I think I only touched a golf club once or twice last week.   
 Q.  Wow.  Do you ever get nervous that you don't know what kind of game is going to show up when you do that?  
CHARLEY HULL: Not really, because golf is mental.  Think you're going to hit it there.  You've been swinging the whole of your life.  Shouldn't forget how after a few days off.   
I always play well when I come back from holidays and stuff as well.  Because I don't play well when I play too many weeks on the chart because mentally I'm not there.   
If I like -- even if I have four weeks off, I would rather have four weeks off than play four, five weeks.   
 Q.  Just because you're not thinking about it?  
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah.  Yeah, because when I play too much golf I kind of -- I don't concentrate.  I kind of get -- I can't explain it.  Mentally tired.  If I'm back home I'm kind of refreshed.   
 Q.  Where would you say your mental game was today?  
CHARLEY HULL: Pretty good.  I wasn't even actually thinking about golf today.  No, it felt good.   
 Q.  What were you thinking about?  
CHARLEY HULL: I don't know.  Just like random stuff.  (Laughter.)   
 Q.  Was this last week you were at home?  How long ago?  
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, I had to stay in -- I was in Asia for three weeks and had to stay in Japan for three extra days.  Didn't fly back from Japan until Wednesday; landed home Wednesday evening.   
I spent Thursday, Friday, Saturday, and Sunday at home and flew out here.   
 Q.  You have a lot of really good pals there as well; looking forward to seeing them.  
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, yeah.  Hung out with them like whole of like Friday and Saturday.  It was really, really fun.  Had everyone round my house, so it was a really fun two days.   
 Q.  Was it Ricoh stuff you were doing?  
CHARLEY HULL: No, it was ISPS.   
 Q.  How has your year been?  How do you feel about your year?  Coming here, was there something you wanted to do before the year ended?  
CHARLEY HULL: I felt like I've had a good year.  Came in second in a major and I've quite a few Top 10s now, few Top 10s.  I just want to get a win in.   
I feel like this is my first full year on the LPGA Tour, so it was just an experience of being away from home a lot.  I kind of understand how my schedule is going to go next year I think.   
That's how I play my best.   
 Q.  Does this feel a little bit like a major just because of the big purse and it's the end of the year?  
CHARLEY HULL: Well, I haven't actually looked at the purse.  I don't know what the purse is.  Yeah, it is.  I've got one more event left in Dubai.  Playing in the Omega Masters there because I'm spokesperson for Omega.   
That's in like, two, three weeks time.  This is my last even on the LPGA Tour, but I can't quite relax yet.   
 Q.  You shot 5-under, but looked like there were a couple where you could have been easily 6 or 7-under.  Are a little disappointed or happy with the 5?  
CHARLEY HULL: No, I'm happy with it.  Obviously left a few out there.  At the end of the day, I think I can go get them tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT