OLYMPIC GAMES RIO 2016: GOLF
August 20, 2016
Charley Hull
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. How would you summarise that round?  
CHARLEY HULL: I thought I played pretty decent. I was quite happy with the way I finished. Hit a great shot into the last, you know, could have raced that putt a little bit more. I left it a little bit short. It was tracking like it was breaking back.   
But I'm happy, especially on the back nine, I gave myself plenty of opportunities. I just didn't hole it. I missed one short putt which is a bit silly but apart from that, I'm looking forward to next week, as well, feel like my game is in good shape. My first Olympics was a fantastic experience and I got a good buzz off it.  
   
 Q. Were you following the leaderboard? You knew that putt might have just snuck it in.   
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, I was following it kind of but the leaderboards are all jumbled up, like showing all different people on the golf course. So I was just trying to find the actual leaderboard. And every time I looked at it, it was down to 20th place and I missed what the leaders were doing. No, it was cool. It was interesting to see.  
   
 Q. What pleases you the most about today?  
CHARLEY HULL: I gave myself some chances. Just my short putts wasn't as good as they usually are and I didn't really hole any long putts. So apart from that, I've played very solid all week, and this golf course is tricky. I think it's a fantastic design and whoever designed it should be proud of themselves.  
   
 Q. In terms of your Olympic experience, has it met your expectations coming in?  
CHARLEY HULL: I thought it was great. I felt happy with my performance. A shame I couldn't come away with a medal but it's kind of, what did I finish, sixth or fifth or whatever, tied sixth, it's like, well, if you treat it like a major, a Top‑10 in a major is a pretty good week. I'm happy. It's great.   
   
 Q. Upside for next time, 2020?   
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, definitely. I'll be 24 then, which will be pretty old. It's great. I'm looking forward to next week to playing Canada, as well, the Canadian Open, it's one of the bigger events on the LPGA Tour schedule. I feel like my game is looking good and Evian is the last major of the year, so I fell like I can give it a good run until then.  
If you don't win, you always want to finish high. But yeah, it means that I'm knocking on the door. I'm getting closer and closer and I seem to perform well in the big events. I don't know what it is about the big events, I just like it. I think I like the pressure behind it.   
I prepare‑‑ I prepare the same but I just feel like I don't concentrate very well on and off the golf course, so I feel like a bigger event helps me concentrate and I like that, so hopefully I'll be able to take this mind into smaller events, as well.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT