RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
July 29, 2016
Charley Hull
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Especially around the turn, that charge from 9 to 12, how much were you enjoying your round at that point?
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, I think I had five birdies in six holes, so that kind of got me going.  I hit some good shot.  Didn't get up-and-down which is a bit unfortunate.  My chipping wasn't that good.  But I'm happy the way I came through that middle part.
Q. Usual for you, you're put on the clock, how did that affect things?
CHARLEY HULL: Well, it was like when it was raining, so it kind of made me rush.  And then I bogeyed 16.  And then after I missed the putt -- they was like, oh, you have to putt now.  It was a bit pointless, but it's stuff that you've got to deal with.
Q. It definitely affects you when these things happen, yeah?
CHARLEY HULL: It does me, because I'm usually quite a fast player.  So I don't want to be too much faster.  So it can put me out a little bit.
Q. You said yesterday that one of the great advantages of being at home for a major is home comforts, being at home fundamentally but the disadvantage is expectation.  How much are you learning to enjoy the expectation and is the pressure of that easing a wee bit?
CHARLEY HULL: It is.  Today I didn't feel anywhere near as nervous.  I just kind of -- I quite actually liked yesterday, because I started with a few birdies and I hit it pretty well.  There's no reason why I can't go low, so that's why I'm feeling more comfortable.
Q. 2-under par, you must be happy with your day?
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, I'm happy, started off a little slow.  I didn't get up-and-down on a couple of holes but hit it pretty well, and to have five birdies in six holes is pretty good in the middle of my round, so it kind of kept me going.
Q. What turned it around in those middle holes?
CHARLEY HULL: I kind of holed a few putts which I wasn't holing and I got up-and-down, so yeah, I was pretty happy.  I just kind of dug in.
Q. Did you get encouragement from the sidelines again today?
CHARLEY HULL: It was good, a lot of fun.  A lot of people after I made a few birdies, it was good.
Q. A lot of local schoolchildren here today; do you see yourself having a key role in inspiring youngsters to get playing?
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, I do, because I'm one of the young English players coming up, so I think that I feel like I am a major role model.  It's a good feeling, though.  You just have to make sure you keep it in a good way par.
Q. Do you think your kind of best place as a young professional yourself, to get youngsters to want to take up the sport?
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, it's good.  I don't really think about that too much because I just want to play, but it is part of being a professional golfer, to get people into the game.  Because if I didn't get with people, I wouldn't get into the game either.
Q. You said yesterday was the most nervous you have ever been on a golf course today.  How did it feel today?
CHARLEY HULL: I felt a lot better, a lot more in the zone.  I was in the zone yesterday but I felt more today.
Q. How nice is it now to have the golf tournament underway and two rounds under your belt?
CHARLEY HULL: It feels good. I'm playing solid.  I didn't get up-and-down a couple times today, just because I'm so used to this golf course playing so soft from the greens sometimes.  So when I'm chipping, I'm pitching it way too far, even though I know it's bouncy, it's just in my head, because you're used to pitching at the pins.  It's definitely good being in a good position going into the weekend.
Q. The five-birdie stretch in six holes around the turn; what gave you that momentum, and how did that set you up for the back nine?
CHARLEY HULL: I'm not sure really.  I just said to myself, I have to hole a couple of putts and make a few birdies and I did.  I was feeling confident and I got on the green in two on 11, and I hit a great bunker shot.  Kind of birdie after birdie got me going.
Q. Coming into this week, did you have an idea what the winning score might be come Sunday?
CHARLEY HULL: No, I had no clue, because I usually play off the back tees.  It's 7,400 yards and I usually play with my boy mates, and I'm hitting 3-woods into a lot of the holes.  So I'm used to shooting not that low, like level par.  But coming forward off the tees today, it's going to be a low score, but I didn't really have anything in mind.
Q. What was it like to feel the crowd support through every hole?
CHARLEY HULL: Oh, yeah, it's a lot of fun.  I enjoy it.  It's great for the golf and it's great for my golf club Woburn.  I think it's brilliant.
Q. What club did you use on 11?
CHARLEY HULL: Driver, 3-wood into the green-side bunker and then I holed the putt because it was only a couple feet.
On 7, I hit a pretty good drive.  And then I hit like a massive like fade around the trees, because it's like a dog-leg right and then chipped up and holed the putt.
Then 9, I hit a great 8-iron in, holed the putt.
Hole after, I hit 8-iron in, holed the putt.
Birdied the 11th and then birdied the 12th.  I hit my driver on the next, it was a big drive.  I think it was nearly just short of 300, because I ripped it.  I could have got up-and-down there but I didn't want to be too greedy with that pin.
Q. And 16, when you were feeling rushed when you were on the clock --
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, like my hand wasn't quite dry and I didn't hit that much of a bad drive.  It just turned over and when you just rush -- the bunker shot, I got into the bunker thinking, I had the sand wedge, I was like, I've got a sand wedge -- then I thought I should hit a lob-wedge and I chunked it with a sand wedge and after that, we got told I was off the clock, so it was a bit annoying.  Because we got to the tee box and they was on the green, so it wasn't like they were that -- we was behind.
Q. First time you've been on the clock?
CHARLEY HULL: I think so.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT