RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
July 28, 2016
Charley Hull
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 69 today and a really fighting finish from you.  Tell us about the last couple holes?
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, it was good to finish there, birdie, birdie.  I said to my caddie on the 15th hole, let's make a couple of birdies coming in, and I did.  I'm happy with my round today.  I was a bit nervous on the first tee obviously because it's like my home golf course and it is a pretty easy open tee shot and I don't really want to screw it up because I'd look even more silly, but I'm happy.
Q. I know you can't played the Marquess Course as often as you have the Duchess Course, but how much are your comfort levels rising?
CHARLEY HULL: I'm really comfortable on the front nine because I usually play like the front nine and my dad picks me up from the halfway house at the ninth.  But I am comfortable around here.  I usually play a little bit further back because I usually play the lads' tee and coming in with longer clubs.  It's actually quite nice to come in with some 7-irons, so it's good.
Q. Tell me about the crowd, because I know you expressed a little bit of reservation about some of your best mates coming to see you and thinking that might put you off.  How did you get on with it all?
CHARLEY HULL: It was good.  I had my best mate, James, here and Maria Kendall (ph) here, as well.  She's never been on a golf course before.  It was quite funny.  I don't know how she found it today.  It was a good day.
Q. Finish 3-under, birdie the last two, what a great way to finish?
CHARLEY HULL: It was good, birdie on the last couple holes, I said to my caddie, I need to make a couple of birdies coming in, and I did.  It was nice to start with a birdie, as well, and I'm pretty happy with myself because I was pretty nervous on that first tee because obviously home crowd and I felt like I had big expectations from people.
Q. I guess you do.  Everyone is really wishing you the best and you delivered?
CHARLEY HULL: I'm happy with my round.  A few things I can tidy up on but I'm pleased.
Q. Do you feel pressure, given everybody is wishing you so well?
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, I do feel the pressure.  Honestly the first tee shot today was probably the most nervous I've ever been on a golf course, and I never usually get nervous, so it was quite weird.
Q. Could you get comfortable out there?
CHARLEY HULL: After I made a birdie on the first hole, I was pretty happy.  I was a bit more comfortable.
Q. Scoring has been pretty good today.  How would you assess your position going into round two?
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, I'm happy.  I don't think it's a low -- apart from someone's pretty low at the moment.  But I think I'm in a good place and hopefully I can play low into tomorrow.
Q. How did you make yourself feel more comfortable?  How did you calm down?
CHARLEY HULL: I don't know, I just birdied the first hole.  So I was quite happy.  Because it's quite an easy tee shot, but like I didn't want to mess it up to make yourself look even more silly.
Like sometimes on the first hole, it could be quite a tricky tee shot.  I was quite happy.  It was a good crowd on the first tee.  I hit driver, but I ballooned it.  I actually hit it really, really bad, like it didn't go anywhere, and I hit a half-wedge into the green to about eight feet and holed it for birdie.
Q. Give us an idea of the difference in clubs.  16 and 18 you were far down?
CHARLEY HULL: I hit just over half pitching wedge on 16 and on 18 I hit like half to three quarter 9-iron, just because was a bit unsure of the wind.  So I flew it there.  But usually I'm coming in with 4-irons to some greens.
Sometimes I get a bit confused, like where to pitch it, because I'm used to coming in with long clubs and I know what I'm doing.  It's like a completely different golf course.  Like say I got a line wrong off like the ninth.  I hit it too far left, because off the back, you can go a bit further.
I was further back but I was just too far left, like because of the tee boxes.  But yeah, it's different.
Q. What would you normally hit into 16 and 18?
CHARLEY HULL: 16, I usually play off the blues with my friends, so sometimes I come in with 5-iron and 4-iron and stuff.  But I like it when it plays long to be honest.  I'm just used to playing it like that.
Q. Hard adjustment, though, isn't it?
CHARLEY HULL: It is quite tricky because I feel like the greens are quite actually slow.  But when I'm with my friends, I'm usually like bombing them, like hitting them really firm in, because I'm not too bothered how far past.  So when you play with your mates, you try and leave yourself sometimes 5-footers to feel under pressure.  But here, I need to hit it -- I'm in my tournament, like, speed, if you know what I mean.  Yeah, I need to hit them a lit further.
Q. Good save at 14?
CHARLEY HULL: The par 3, yeah, that was a good save, because I was right in-between clubs.
Q. How long was the putt?
CHARLEY HULL: 20 feet.  It was a tricky bunker shot.  Like I played the bunker shot well.  I couldn't really get it too far, too much quite closer.
Q. Good save at 15, as well?
CHARLEY HULL: Like I hit a great drive and hit a great second shot all the way down there.  I was just too close because I was on like a downslope and usually like for that far, grip right down but because the ball was below my feet I had to grip up and I hit it way past.  Then I didn't hole the putt, it just ran past.
Q. If you had to think of one thing that made it like an advantage of being at your home club and one thing that was a disadvantage, what would it be?
CHARLEY HULL: I think the advantage would be probably just like home comforts and stuff.  Disadvantage would be like the expectations.
Q. A lot of members are watching you?
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, exactly, and you don't want to screw up, because if you're in America, you hit a bad shot, people don't really notice it as much.  It's not televised.  But when it's here, you're kind of seeing it.  But no, I'm happy and I'm feeling better, as well, so it was good.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT