RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
July 27, 2016
Charley Hull
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








COLIN CALLANDER: Welcome again, ladies and gentlemen.  We have Charley Hull with us.  Charley is obviously from Woborn.  It must be a great feeling having a major championship on your home patch.
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, it's pretty cool that it's at Woburn.  It's nice to be at home.  Yeah, I'm really looking forward to it.
Q. How long have you been looking forward to it, ever since it was announced?
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, I remember it was announced two years ago, but that's flown by since then, but yeah.  I haven't actually played the golf course that much this year because it's been really wet conditions because we've had so much rain.  And now that it's dry, I didn't want to come to the tournament thinking that -- I usually play when it's wet.  I just played 18 yesterday and I'm going to play nine holes today.
Q. You were feeling a little under the weather last week.  How are you feeling this week?
CHARLEY HULL: I feel a lot better.  It's always in that area in America that my asthma really suffers with me.  I'm find it really bad.  I'm fine now.  When I always come back to England, after I have not been feeling very well, the air over here, I'm used to like the pollens and stuff.  I think that was the big thing of it last week.  I just really didn't feel very well.
Q. With the success last week, was there a real feeling that the four of you were part of the new breed of British golfers and will that sort of flick on this week?
CHARLEY HULL: Well, I knew it would be fun.  I have been on the teams, actually every single one of them, and so it was great.  It was great to be on the team with them.  I haven't been on the same team since in the same event.  Yeah, definitely, I feel like we're all similar players and we all get on and we've got great personalities.  It was good fun.  Hopefully, people will look at that and be inspired.
Q. As a child when you had asthma, did it stop you from playing other sports?  And did that have anything to do with you going into golf?
CHARLEY HULL: No, it hasn't actually really.  Sometimes I wasn't allowed -- I loved running when I was younger.  I wasn't allowed to run too much.  I always had my inhaler and stuff.  It never really affects me that much.  I need it a little bit when I've got a bit of hay fever or a cold or stuff.  But I never had to like -- I could just rest.
Last week it was weird because I feel like it was so humid, as well.  And obviously it just does a lot of different things and it went to my chest.
Q. Have you always carried an inhaler around with you?
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, I have to always take it twice a day since I was a kid, twice in the morning, twice at night.  Then I was taking my other one as well in case I have an attack.
Last week it just wasn't really working.  The doctors and that said it was hard to breathe in with the humidity and stuff.  That's why I wasn't digesting it or something.  I can't remember what he said.  Then they put me on the air, so it opened up my ways a lot more.
Q. Were you scared when this happens?
CHARLEY HULL: I only get scared during the night.  During the night I really felt it.  It's horrible because then you have to think about your breathing and you can't sleep.
Q. This week being so close to home, is there likely to be more friends here who wouldn't normally come and follow you at a golf tournament?
CHARLEY HULL: Well, I actually didn't want any of my friends really to come.  I don't know why, I just feel like my friends are my friends outside of golf.  I just don't want them asking, so why did you hit that there or what does that mean or what's this.  I may let one friend come, which is my best mate James and he's a golfer.  So he keeps me calm and relaxed and stuff.
I've had my family come in and sometimes I try and distance myself away from my family.  They kind of, my sisters especially, they don't know much about golf.  If I've had a bad round, they're like, well, I could have easily holed that, I could have done this.  I'm like just be quiet.  I haven't really got them coming.  They might pop around in the evening, that's it.
Q. A know a lot of the members here at the club will be very excited.  Do you expect to see them, and how do you cope with the fact that so many people will want to have a few words this week?
CHARLEY HULL: Well, I feel like there's a lot of pressure on me this week, which is a bit annoying.  But at the end of the day, it's my home course and it's great to have it here.  It will be nice to see all the members come out and have their support, because there are a great bunch of people here at Woburn.  I always feel so welcome.  I'll be looking forward to seeing them out there.
Q. Have you anticipated any sort of way of coping with that?
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, I haven't -- usually on big weeks I delete Twitter off my phone and let my manager do some Tweets and stuff for me.  I deleted Twitter so I didn't have to look at what the media or anybody says.  I just switch off from golf.  I feel like that's the big thing for me this week.  After my rounds, just go see my mates.  I'm going to stay here now for a couple days.  I live the other side of North Hampton and the traffic on the 845 and the M1 can sometimes be bad.  It can only be a half an hour sometimes, and sometimes it can be an hour and a half.
Q. Has your friend James found the trophy yet?
CHARLEY HULL: My best mate James, he won the Club Championship on Sunday and finished second in Championship, and then he won obviously club champs two weeks later.  The whole golf club had a massive celebration.  He went on a pub crawl with the trophy, and he lost the trophy that's 120 years old.  He phoned them up saying that he lost it, and they weren't very happy.  Only last night he found it.  The lid was the behind the bar.  (Indiscernible) was in golf club on the putting green, someone found it.  So it's all right.
Q. What's James surname?
CHARLEY HULL: Northern.
Q. Is that the guy that you got the ball for Paula?
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah.
Q. Did you ever have a bad experience with Twitter or did you just find yourself going on it too much during big weeks?
CHARLEY HULL: I only got Twitter like two years ago, 2013.  Solheim Cup I didn't have it and then later on that year, I got it.  Sometimes you do.  I'm find it quite amusing.  I find it quite funny when people give you bad comments.  Yeah, I just delete it because sometimes I just don't want to see stuff.
Q. Have you had many players ask you for advice about this course?  And if so, what do you tell them?
CHARLEY HULL: I tell them that -- yeah, there has been a few people that asked me.  I was like, well, I played the other two a lot more.  I've probably played the other two hundreds and hundreds of times.  I've probably played at this one only about 30.  Just because I like the other tee because they are like really tight, super tight.  The Dukes and the Duchess, both of those golf courses are on the (indiscernible).  I got to it yesterday and that was pretty impressive.  They're pretty tight.
But this one is quite American, you would play this, quite similar to this on the LPGA Tour, I would say.  They that would ask me, I would say the greens are quite tricky to read because they are quite tricky to read.
Q. Does that give you an advantage?
CHARLEY HULL: Kind of.  I've got my coach out there helping with some of the reads the other day.  I haven't actually noticed, but with my caddie I play the golf course completely different when I'm with my friends.  I play it a lot further back.  We just play it off the men's tees.  Some holes where I just hit driver, because I'm playing with my mates and trying to shoot way, way low.
This week, I'm thinking actually I don't need 3 wood because it's a little bit more bouncy on the fairways and they will run out.  Whereas if I'm with my friends, I'm just trying to take the harder shot, give myself some pressure, which is interesting because I might start playing the golf course this way now.  I never seem to score low that way, and that's probably why.
Q. It's obviously a big few weeks for you with Rio coming up.  How are you feeling in terms of how important are these few weeks in terms of your career?
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, I'm really buzzing for them.  I can't wait.  It's going to be a lot of fun.  I've been working really hard in the gym lately.  This is my seventh week going at it full blast in the gym.  I just want to be really fit by the end of the season because obviously I've got a few big weeks.  I'm really looking forward to it and I'm excited to see the golf course in Rio.
Q. As someone so excited for it, how did you respond to the men withdrawing for Zika concerns?
CHARLEY HULL: It's obviously their choice, and they have their reasons and I understand their reasons.  But at the moment, I think it's during the winter, as well, so I don't think they're going to get that many mosquitos there hopefully.
I'm going to go out there obviously and play.  I'm not going to be having kids, because I'm only 20 at the moment.  Not until I'm older anyway.  So I don't need to be worried about that, I think.
Q. Do you feel an obligation to grow the game yourself?
CHARLEY HULL: I'm sorry?
Q. A lot of the men have said they don't have an obligation to grow the game, do you feel the obligation --
CHARLEY HULL: I feel like it's something that you want to give back to the game.  If it wasn't for Laura Davis or Tiger Woods, all the players making -- they have made the game what it is today.  They have played in these tournaments, they've grown the game.  I feel like I've got to give back a little bit, and I'm happy to do that.
Q. When you are in Rio, are you staying in the Olympic Village?
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, I'm staying in the Olympic Village.
Q. Is there any athlete or sport that you are looking to sort of bump into accidentally on purpose in the dining hall?
CHARLEY HULL: No, not really.  I watched quite a bit of it on TV over the years.  I think it's pretty cool.  Jessica, I think she's brilliant at what she does.  She's proper fit, she is physically and stuff.  A couple -- I really don't know the names, but I will know who they are if I see them.
Q. You are saying that Laura Davis inspired you.  When you are at the club here, have there been juniors that have been inspired by you?
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, there is.  There's actually one junior, I can't remember her name, that's pretty bad, but my mate James, he was always goes down there.  When I was a little kid, I was really cheeky.  I was really, really, really cheeky.  I just used to wind everyone up and stuff.  She said there's a little kid down there and she's about 12 at the moment.  She reminds him of me when I was a kid.  He said she's got a good golf swing.  I feel that's pretty cool, and she likes my game as well.
COLIN CALLANDER: Thank you very much for being here.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT