RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
July 31, 2016
Charley Hull
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Did your home major on your home golf course live up to expectations?  
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, it was great fun.  It was brilliant.  I've enjoyed the whole week.  I didn't quite -- I played well, apart from the first hole.  Today I played great, apart from the last six holes (indiscernible) -- finishing 5-under, but it was unfortunate.  But I felt like my game is in good shape.   
 Q.  Obviously there's a low score out there, because you were 7-under for the day at one point.  So with the leaders going out, there's only three players within six shots of the leaders.  So how far back is too far back?  
CHARLEY HULL: Well, I had it in mind at one point -- I don't think there's no far back.  You can easily shoot a low one and you can easily shoot a high one.  So if that happens, the tables turn.   
 Q.  So what's next for you now for the rest of the season?  
CHARLEY HULL: I'm playing Rio, then I've got two weeks in Canada after that for the Canadian Open and I've got an event over there, the Evian and after that we have the Asian Swing.   
 Q.  First 12 holes, outstanding.  
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, it was great.  I played good.  I just got put on at clock.  A little bit unfortunate in that respect.  Made me rush a little bit when I didn't need -- but apart from that, I played great, and I'm happy with my round.   
 Q.  You were on the clock.  Tell us a little bit more about that.  
CHARLEY HULL: I think it was the 12th hole, just felt like I was rushing it.  Made me rush on my next drive -- because I -- (indiscernible) from the green-to-the-tee.  Just one of them things.  Shame I couldn't make any birdies in but I'm still quite happy with my round.   
 Q.  Is that the kind of thing that with experience will get better, dealing with situations like that?  
CHARLEY HULL: No, it's just hard, because I got a warning and then I got, if I do it again, it's a penalty, where in the LPGA, it's fines.  But here it's a penalty, so you want to be a bit more tighter (phonetic).   
 Q.  And 13, not eight great hole for you?  
CHARLEY HULL: I hit it just down the right and bounced into the rubbish and then chipped out.  It was a pretty good chip out.  Just went too far the other side, but it was a tricky chip out and then 3-putted.   
It wasn't the damage there; it was just the next hole where I pushed it.  I kind of was still angry and I've never really done that before where I've been angry and I couldn't let it go.  So that's a little bit of a learning curve.   
But I'm looking forward to Rio and hopefully a big event.  I'm buzzing for it.  I'm excited, I've never played in South America before.   
 Q.  Different style, going for a Gold Medal, that's special.  
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, it's pretty cool, and to get any medal there is going to be awesome.  Definitely think my game is in good shape and it's going to be good.   
 Q.  How much has the home crowd given you strength this week?  
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, really good. It's been a lot of fun.  I've enjoyed it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT