RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
July 30, 2016
Charley Hull
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Probably not the round you wanted?  
CHARLEY HULL: Just started a bit bad on the first hole.  Hit my drive left and then I had a shot that I was playing into the bunker and just flew off the downslope.  Hit actually a pretty good shot and it just flew and I think it hit the path, hit the tree and ended up 60 yards over the right-hand side, so I got a bit of bad luck there.   
Apart from that, I felt like I played pretty decent.  Just didn't hole any putts.  I just had a lot of chances coming in.  Just didn't hole anything.   
 Q.  How difficult is it to get rid of the first hole, out of your mind?  
CHARLEY HULL: It was straight out of my mind because I hit a great drive on the next and a good shot to the green.  I actually hit quite a good chip to get up-and-down for birdie.  No, I pretty much got over it straightaway.   
It was good out there.  Only one bad hole, well, two -- managed to get a six out of it, which is a bogey but apart from that, pretty happy the way I played.  I just didn't hole nothing at all.   
 Q.  Is it fair that people would say maybe pressure is getting to you here at your home course?  
CHARLEY HULL: No, not really.  I felt like today was less pressure I've had all week.  Probably needed a bit more of nerves on the first tee to keep me going.  But I didn't -- definitely not today.   
 Q.  What are your positives from today overall?  
CHARLEY HULL: I feel like I'm placing it in the right positions on some holes but I just need to  -- I think I need to work on my chipping.  I find it a lot easier to chip in America than I do over here because I feel like the ground underneath the thick rough is a lot more bouncy, so my chip shots are bouncing instead of coming through the rough.   
 Q.  Are you allowed to say that about Woburn?  
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, I am, because it's the same at Catching Golf club, it's the same in England, that's the difficult of the rough.   
 Q.  And the home fans?  
CHARLEY HULL: It's cool.  It's good.  I'm enjoying it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT