FUBON LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP
October 23, 2015
Charley Hull
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great round today, 3-under 69, 7-under for the tournament.  Just two shots off the lead heading into the weekend.  How do you feel so far in your position right now?  
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, I feel quite confident.  I've been playing very well lately, so it's good to get two rounds together, and push my way again up that leaderboard.  A shame I didn't birdie the last, bogeyed 17.  But I was plugged in the bunker on 17 and I made a good up-and-down and so it wasn't too bad.   
Hit four great golf shots at the last, and just a shame I didn't hole the putt, but apart from that, I'm pretty happy and it's good.   
 Q.  Your first time here playing.  What are your thoughts on the course and how it suits your game in particular?  
CHARLEY HULL: Well, I came to Taiwan the first week in the year.  I had to play an event.  But it was windy back then and it's windy now.  I quite like it like this.  It's been fun.  It's a bit rainy, so it's a bit like a British Open, but obviously the weather's a lot warmer.   
 Q.  Not as many low scores today.  Were conditions a little tougher considering the rain and the wetness?  
CHARLEY HULL: I think it was a little bit trickier because of like the wind keeps gusting up and then stopping, and so it's like you have to hit it at that time.  But I think it's been pretty even par to yesterday to be honest.   
 Q.  Does that help you?  You're such a quick player; does that help when you play in windy conditions?  
CHARLEY HULL: I suppose but I need to take my time a little bit.  I enjoy it.  I just love playing in the wind.   
 Q.  You're wrapping up your rookie season.  How big would a win be for you to close out this 2015 year for you?  
CHARLEY HULL: It would be wicked if I got a win but at the end of the day, I have plenty of years ahead of me.  I'm in no rush.  I'd like to win obviously, but I'm not going to be thinking about it too much.   
 Q.  Take me through the bogeys.  
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, I was plugged in the bunker on 17, my tee shot.  And then the other bogey was on 11 when I hit my shot a little bit right, hit a good punch on the green and didn't get up-and-down.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT