SOLHEIM CUP
September 18, 2015
Gwladys Nocera
Charley Hull
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome Charley Hull and Gwladys Nocera from Team Europe, who just won their fourball match by 3&2 over Alison Lee and Angela Stanford.
Charley, you also won this morning's foursome.  You had five consecutive birdies on the back nine this afternoon.  Exceptional golf.  How do you feel about the way you played today?
CHARLEY HULL: I felt like I played pretty well.  I had a lot of fun out there with Gwladys.  It made it easy for me to go to the pins.  I feel confident going into tomorrow.  I feel like I'm hitting it good.  Probably I should have hit driver on the last, I hit that club close in there.  But I'm buzzing.
MODERATOR: Gwladys, you must be thrilled to get your first point on the board in this 2015 competition?
GWLADYS NOCERA: Yeah, I knew I wanted to come back to the team, and coming back and having a chance to play with Charley and bringing a point home is big.  I'm so happy.  I'm so happy, we had fun today.  We paired well.  And it was really good.
Q. Charley, we know that you're a very exuberant golfer, do you go to a different level when it becomes the Solheim Cup?
CHARLEY HULL: I just play my own game.  Well, I don't know.  Something happens.  I feel like I putt well under pressure at the Solheim.
And Gwladys helped me make a lot of putts today.  I felt like I've been in pretty good form this season, just fell back on a few rounds.  But I have my caddie back on the bag now, and I'm really looking forward to tomorrow and the next couple of days, and the rest of the year.
Q. Ian Poulter, has he ever chatted to you about match play and team competition?
CHARLEY HULL: No, not really actually.  I think because I played pretty good so far, like last time.  But I remember actually in the Curtis Cup, just before that he was like, just expect that they're going to hole every bunker shot, every chip, every putt so you're not surprised when they do.  And that's always stuck in my mind and that helped me win Curtis and last time, as well.
Q. Another quick one.  You said you played an under 16 event here.  Could you tell me what age you were and what result you had?
CHARLEY HULL: I think I was 16.  It was two or three years ago.  It was about this time three years ago, and it was the European Junior Team Championship.  And we, England, won the qualifier, I played really well around this golf course, by I think it was like 6-under for two rounds, a couple of us combined.  And we won the qualifying by like 45 shots, and then got knocked out in the first round by Sweden, who qualified last at 10-over par.
Q. When did you switch caddies?  And can you talk about how Adam has helped you?
CHARLEY HULL: The final round of the British Open.  And I finished with my caddie on the third round.  The final round I had Adam.  I just felt like I needed a change.  I wanted to try him out in the final round.  I played really well.  I felt more refreshed.
I think it was Terry, Ian Poulter's caddie, he actually told me about Adam last year, and kind of kept him in the back of my mind for a little while.  And I felt like I needed a change.  He's helped me a lot.  Kind of more relaxed.  He gets me to hit driver a lot more, and I feel a lot more comfortable.  So I feel confident and he's just so relaxed and I like that.
Q. Is that awkward making a change in the middle of a major?
CHARLEY HULL: It was.  But at the end of the day, it wasn't.  I went out there, and I was like 5-under after 6 holes.  I feel like I did make the right change.  I just needed a change, I needed to be more refreshed.  I'm happy with the changes.
Q. You closed out both matches with longish putts, how much more satisfying is that at the end of the day?
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, it feels really good.  This morning I was more pleased about my drive on 17.  I ripped it.  And I didn't really like that tee shot.  And to hit it down there and to hole the putt felt great.
This afternoon, the 16th hole, I played a very silly -- I couldn't get up there in three -- in two.  But I just hit -- but holed the putt.  I was pleased.  It's a good feeling.  And it was great because Gwladys was so steady, so I could go for putts.
Q. Gwladys, earlier today Mel explained that Charley was a fun partner and comes out with some funny things.  Were there examples of that today for you?
GWLADYS NOCERA: If there were, I wouldn't tell you.  I think there's a language barrier.  Sometimes the sense of humor between the English and the French is not exactly the same.  So the most important was that both of us are very comfortable, I think, playing together.  And obviously it showed up in the game we played.
CHARLEY HULL: I call her senior, and she calls me junior.
GWLADYS NOCERA: You won't get better.
Q. Gwladys, what would you think of her personality, of Charley?  What have you seen today from Charley?
GWLADYS NOCERA: I seen what she's capable of.  She's very offensive.  She's got so much talent in her hands, and she's so dominant.  I think that's the difference between a lot of players and her.  She plays great golf, but she enjoys life and has good fun and she's very funny.  When I get the jokes, I think it's funny (laughter).  And I think she's just someone really special.
Q. Charley, same question, what can you say about Gwladys' general personality?
CHARLEY HULL: I've been playing with Gwladys for about three years.  I think I first played with her in Holland, actually.  And I was actually very nervous playing with Gwladys, because it was like my second or third event.  It was a few years -- she's such a steady player.  She's a lovely girl.  I just enjoy playing with her.  She's pretty solid and she's got some balls, I'll give you that.  Yeah, she's gutsy, and I like that.
GWLADYS NOCERA: That's the kind of humor I don't get (laughter).
CHARLEY HULL: It means you're like (indicating.)
GWLADYS NOCERA: I know.  (Laughter).
Q. Charley, how would you describe your role on this team, what do you think you bring?
CHARLEY HULL: I just bring myself.  I just kind of feel like -- I don't do nothing, I just speak and what comes out of my mouth comes out of my mouth and sometimes they love it.  And I'm just me.  I feel confident.  I get along with everyone.  I think everyone bonds so well.  I think this is a great team.  We all have got great games, and I feel like we gel perfectly.
MODERATOR: Thanks and congratulations.  That was a fantastic performance.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT