SOLHEIM CUP
September 18, 2015
Charley Hull
Melissa Reid
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR: Fantastic result for you two this morning.  How do you feel after that match?   
MELISSA REID: Yeah, I mean obviously Brittany and Michelle are fantastic golfers, fantastic players.  So we knew that it was going to be difficult.  But our aim today was to give ourselves a birdie chance on every hole.  We knew we would hole a couple of putts, if we hit short of the pins.  We just -- we like this partnership in foursomes.  We wanted me and Charley.  This is the partnership that we wanted and we feel very comfortable together.  And it's nice to get the first point on the board.   
MODERATOR: What worked particularly well?   
CHARLEY HULL: I feel like we both have quite a similar game.  But she puts up with me, like my randomness, so it's good.  But I feel like we've got similar games, if one hits off line, we both feel that we can recover quite well.  We both played really well.  And I'm buzzing to get out there again.   
 Q.  Either one of you can go for this, but at that point when you put the point on the board, the first group had lost, it's quite important to hit back straightaway?  
MELISSA REID: As soon as somebody gets up there is better.  It's nice we were able to do that.  We need obviously as many points as we can.  It was a very tough match because we were 1-up, all square, 1-up, all square, 1-up, all square.  If we lost that match, it would be a heartbreaker really.  We holed a couple of good putts to keep in it.  It was nice, Charley had a great par on 17.  It was nice to get it the match over and done with and not go down 18.   
 Q.  What did it feel like?  
CHARLEY HULL: It was great.  I felt like I just ripped it.  I didn't quite like the tee shot.  But to hole the putt, it was good.  I needed that putt because I haven't holed anything all day from the short ones.  But it was great and it was good fun.  I enjoyed it.   
 Q.  I was going to ask Charley about the 17.  Were you conscious of what was happening elsewhere?  
CHARLEY HULL: Sometimes I like to look at scoreboards, but today I didn't really.  I was just pretty focused and just plugging along.   
 Q.  Charley, that was your first foursome in Solheim.  You two just seemed to go for everything?  
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah.   
MELISSA REID: That's the way that we play.   
CHARLEY HULL: That's why I enjoy playing foursomes with Mel, because if one of us hits a loose shot, we both know we've got the games to recover.   
And we've played quite a few times together over the years, actually.  And we do know each other's games.  And it's a lot of fun.  And I think it was a good pair.   
 Q.  What's the most random thing she said to you out there?  
MELISSA REID: I don't even like listening half the time, I just let her speak (laughter).   
CHARLEY HULL: I think I was quite good today, actually.  Probably I did say some random stuff.  It's just normal for me.   
MELISSA REID: I have to let it go in one ear or out the other or else I'll get crazy.  I just let her blab on about it, whatever she wants to blab on about.   
CHARLEY HULL: We have a special hole, I think it's the 10th hole.  And so basically when I come and play the practice round, I come from Scotland and the British Open and my dad drove up, so I was flying home.  So I was here for two days.  I put my underwear and my tops and everything in my travel bag, in my suitcase.  And I came over here, landed, got on the team bus, got here.  Went in for lunch, rushed out.  There was quite a few media, people around the tee.  I played nine holes, went and changed my bag to play with Mel in a foursome, realized that my underwear, clean pair of underwear for the next day, got caught into my umbrella for the whole round.  It was like going along.  Maybe if you look closely in one of the phots from the practice, you'll see my underwear on there.   
 Q.  How long was that putt?  
CHARLEY HULL: On 17?  How long was that putt, Mel?   
MELISSA REID: Probably about 18 feet.   
CHARLEY HULL: We see the line straightaway, didn't we?   
MELISSA REID: As soon as I stepped behind it, I was like -- we both had the exact same line.   
CHARLEY HULL: Kept a good pace, and it was good.   
 Q.  Any idea how long you two have known each other?  
CHARLEY HULL: I played with her actually as an amateur, like four years ago.  But I watched her eight years ago, we were amateur and played in the English Open and I've known her for obviously longer than that.  But back then I played with you in amateur, didn't I?   
 Q.  Was there a real pivotal moment in the game today, do you feel?  
MELISSA REID: Not really.  They holed a great putt on 12 to stay in it.   
CHARLEY HULL: That putt on 12, it kind of kicked me, as well.   
 Q.  In terms of the rankings that obviously high in the rankings, two major winners.  On paper that was a match that would favor them.  Is that how you felt or did that spur you on?  
MELISSA REID: No, I mean -- you know, playing Europe is quite difficult for me to compare myself with other players, because I'm not playing with them week in and week out, that's why I want to go to America to do that.  The British Open was huge for me this year, because I played with Lexi, with Inbee, with Lydia.  And that week my game was not too far off.  And it was just great for me to play against them.   
I'm not intimidated by the American team.  I played in Solheim before, played with them a million times.  I know Brittany pretty well.  I know Michelle pretty well.  Obviously they are great players, but luckily we did play well.  It was good.  We didn't do much wrong today.  So it was nice to get that first point on the board.   
MODERATOR: I think the girls are going to have to go out now.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT