RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 31, 2015
Charley Hull
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  CHARLEY HULL: I played really well today.   
   
 Q. It was really tough conditions. You must be really proud. Can you talk me through the first nine?   
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, I think I hit every fairway. I saw every green, apart from the second hole.   
And then on the back nine, I hit pretty much every green‑‑ well, I was putting, anyway, apart from the last hole. I played pretty solid out there today. I hit pretty much every fairway, most fairways. And I just missed two two‑foot putts.   
Apart from that, I was 1‑under if I didn't miss them but 1‑under was a pretty good score in that wind. I'm hitting it solid.   
   
 Q. I heard about a specific Laura Davies‑inspired driver off the deck on 17.   
CHARLEY HULL: Oh, yeah, yeah. I just felt confident to keep it under the wind and it paid off. Pretty good shot.  
   
 Q. Your experience in links golf will stand you in good steadfor much of the field. What sort of other links golf, in‑the‑wind, tough condition tips are you keeping in mind?   
CHARLEY HULL: I just really like a battle out there. I like it when it's playing tough because I feel like I can stick in there when the tough gets going and the tough gets going, or whatever that saying's called.   
Yeah, I enjoy it when it's windy. I don't like playing links golf when it's not. I just find it much more fun in the wind and I feel like I play better when it's windy.  
   
 Q. Can you talk through any birdies or bogeys that were notable?   
CHARLEY HULL: I bogeyed the second hole. But I hit a pretty good shot in there. It stopped like ten foot left of the pin. Then the wind blew it and it blew it down the slope so I didn't hole the one back up. I lipped‑out.   
I should probably have birdied the third hole but I birdied the next par 5.   
Then I bogeyed the 13th from lipping out for a birdie putt from like 15 feet, and then I missed a two‑foot putt for par.   
Should have probably birdied the next hole. Lipped‑out on that. Cristie's broke the other way and mine broke that way.  
Nearly holed my putt on the 15th.   
And then I hit a great drive down 16 and a great 4‑iron into the green about 15 feet away, makeable putt. I put it about two feet past and then missed the putt coming up.  
But then on 17, I hit a 3‑wood off the tee, driver off the deck and hit a nice little soft hand wedge shot I've been working on with my pitching coach, Dan, to like eight feet and holed the putt and I was happy with that and made a par at the last.  
   
 Q. Conditions are supposed to be rough this afternoon. What will you with your do afternoon?  
CHARLEY HULL: I'm going to eat some food. Just going to relax. Probably not going to hit any balls. Probably do a little putting, but in this wind, you don't want to hit too many balls because it can muck your swing around. So I've got to do some stuff for my sponsor, Ricoh, as well.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT