RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 29, 2015
Charley Hull
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  COLIN CALLANDER: We have Charley Hull with us. You've had a chance to play the course a couple of times now. What are your views ON the course?   
CHARLEY HULL: I think the golf course is great. I actually first played this golf course ten years ago when I was nine. I've played in the championship here and I actually won it. I've got good memories and glad to be back and hopefully the weather stays like this.  
COLIN CALLANDER: What championship was that?   
CHARLEY HULL: It was the Health Perception Championship of Great Britain. You enter at your club and you win a medal and you go through. It's quite a big thing, actually, for like a club golfer. I won it and it was good.   
   
 Q. I guess there will be a fair bit of expectation this week on your shoulders as a British player. Do you feel that yourself and do you thrive on expectancy and the pressure that comes with it?  
CHARLEY HULL: You know, obviously it's good to have that kind of on your shoulders because it shows that you're playing good golf, and people want you to play good golf.  
I'm just going to play one shot at a time. Not really going to read too much. I feel my game is in good shape and hopefully put a few good scores together and we'll see. But played well last year in this event. I had a great third round and shot a 66. So hope to definitely do more of that this year.  
   
 Q. I know it's a long time ago, but knowing the course perhaps better than many of your rivals, do you think that gives you any sort of advantage?   
CHARLEY HULL: Well, because I played it ten years ago, I'm taking a completely different lines. Probably used to hit my drive 130 yards and now I hit it probably 110 yards further.   
I don't really think it's going to give me an advantage. But I've got good memories of this place, so hopefully that kind of gives me a little bit of an advantage but not too much.   
   
 Q. What was your handicap when you were nine?  
CHARLEY HULL: I think I was off 25, and when I was ten, I was off like 5. And then 11, off scratch.   
   
 Q. What was the prize?   
CHARLEY HULL: I won a trophy. But it was like the Great Britain Amateur Championship‑‑ the Health Perception Great Britain and Ireland Amateur Championship. It was like 24,000 entries that entered it from the clubs. So it was quite a big deal for being quite young I suppose.   
But I don't remember too much of it because it was a really windy and rainy day. It was like 50‑mile‑per‑hour winds and I fell over, the wind blew me over on the 11th hole, the par3.   
I came in and it was raining. I remember just wanting to come in and play my Nintendo DS. And I had to go out in a playoff, and a member was like, "No, Charley, you've got to go out and play."   
And I was like, "I don't want to. I want to carry on playing this."   
I won on the second playoff hole and then I ran in and played again on my Nintendo DS.  
   
 Q. Was it an actual adult you played in the playoff?   
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, she was like 35.   
   
 Q. The other ladies in the event, were they sort of mothering you or thinking, what's a child doing here? Did they resent you or were they funny about it?   
CHARLEY HULL: I can't remember. Probably my dad would know more about that. I felt like I was in‑‑ I was happy being there. So I don't think there was no badness going on like because I'm a young kid. I think they enjoyed me being interest and I just remember beating them.   
   
 Q. (Inaudible.)  
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, that was the only time. It was just so windy that day.   
   
 Q. Do you suppose the Nintendo‑‑ did you know at the age of nine, that golf was the route that you wanted to go down?   
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, I always played golf, so I just thought it was a normal thing to do. So I always wanted to do it when I was older. I enjoy it. I love it. I'm pretty happy where I am now.   
   
 Q. I remember last year when you shot the low round that you had, you said that you visualised Birkdale tree lines, have you been visualising Turnberry tree lines?  
CHARLEY HULL: No, I haven't, actually, but good memory, thanks for that. That was a good tip. I might try that. But I'm pretty happy with the way I'm hitting it. Last week was quite a tight golf course, so I feel like I'm pretty much zoned in. Last year was at Buckinghamshire and that was quite a wide golf course, and you go to Birkdale, it's a lot tighter.   
I'm pretty happy with my game and hopefully on the few holes that I don't like, I'll imagine different holes. But I'm happy with the way I'm seeing the golf course this week.  
   
 Q. Do you think you're ready to win a major?   
CHARLEY HULL: Well, so far this year, I was leading quite a few times after the second or first round and just fell away a little bit. I'm still young, and I feel like I'm ready to win a major. It's just got to putt all four rounds together. But I'm getting there and I feel like my swing is in a better place and I feel like I'm a better player this year, as well. We'll see hopefully.   
   
 Q. What do you need to do ‑‑  
CHARLEY HULL: I don't know, really, probably lack a little bit of concentration. Now I've just got to feel confident in my swing and just hold my finish and tidy up the messy pieces like pre‑shot routine, make sure I get everything tidy. I think they are the most crucial things to me.   
   
 Q. What have you learnt from the Korean contingent on Tour?   
CHARLEY HULL: You know, the way they are just so focused, and they just hit it so straight and they are so in balance. Me and my old coach always used to say, like they are methodical, they don't leave anything to chance. So that's one thing that I'm going to try and do and improve on, making sure everything is tidy in my game.   
But at the end of the day, I'm a feel player, as well, so it's good to have the shots, when I get into trouble, spin it around trees and hit it out of places and stuff that you have to be a bit smart and know what to take on and not. So I think that's a big thing I'm working on.   
   
 Q. Donald Trump is meant to be arriving in a helicopter roundabout when some people might be teeing off. How much of a distraction would it be if the helicopter starts to land just as you're about to tee off?   
CHARLEY HULL: It's like a train going past I suppose. You can't do anything about it. I think it's pretty cool. I'll just stop and watch.   
COLIN CALLANDER: Charley, thank you very much. Good luck this week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT