U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 12, 2012
Jeffrey Roth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Ladies and gentlemen, Jeff Roth, 71, 1 over par for the championship.   
   
 Q.   What do you think about your round?  
JEFF ROTH:   Well, I don't know.   I didn't get it going all day long.   It kind of was an up and down round.   Had to get a new putter yesterday because my other putter face bubbled on me.   So I was putting with a brand new putter today.   But it's a nice feeling putter.   Just I never really got into the round where I got really comfortable and got on a roll.  
A lot of approach shots.   I scrambled it pretty well, honestly, because it just wasn't that great a round from tee to green.   So I made some nice up and downs.   Made a really nice par save on No. 9 because I hit it in the grunge up the hill and had to wedge out and made an 8 iron up there and made an eight, nine‑footer for a par.   It was just one of those rounds.   
I did get it under par, made a nice birdie on 15, gave it back on 16 and three‑putted 18.  
   
 Q.   The greens weren't as fast as some of the golfers expected today.   What were they like for you?   
JEFF ROTH:   I thought they had nice speed.   I guess‑‑ you know, if you're playing every week on tour, maybe they were just average speed.   And so when you come to a major, you kind of expect maybe something a little bit extra special.   But I think if you realize where they could put the pins here, they could get really dicey with the pins, and I think today they were kind of playing it conservative.   
So they might say some things about the speed of the greens, but I think when they look back, I think they'll say that they were just perfect for what they had to putt on.  
   
 Q.   Your experience playing here, do you notice the difference between the USGA setup, or was Indianwood it?   
JEFF ROTH:   When we played PGA here several years ago, we played a little bit shorter, maybe 6,600 yards, instead of 6,900 yards.   That yardage is coming in some key holes, you know, like No.16, we never played it‑‑ we probably played around 380, 390, and they're playing at 450, 460.  
   
 Q.   How about 17 then?   I'm sorry.   
JEFF ROTH:   16, up the hill.   We would just hit it over that bunker or the left edge of that bunker, and now we're just playing the fairway.   Of course, No.18, there's a big difference in yardage there too.   So that's a big difference.   
The pins were much more conservative when we played the PGA here, like, for instance, on a hole like No.5, they never used the edges of the green.   They kind of used the swale of the green in the middle so that the balls would collect.   So I would say pin placements and yardage.   But I remember the greens being every bit as fast, if not faster than they were today.   And, of course, the fairways are a little tighter.   
And the final thing would be the rough.   The rough is really gnarly.   They would never play a Michigan PGA with that kind of rough.   
   
 Q.   What year was that when they played the Michigan PGA?   
JEFF ROTH:   I think it was‑‑ gosh, I want to say somewhere in the late '80s, '85, '86, to about '92.  
   
 Q.   I'll try to look that up.   
JEFF ROTH:   Something like that.  
   
 Q.   [Inaudible].   
JEFF ROTH:   I was back for the PGA senior in Benton Harbor in May, and I got a chance to play here a couple times that week, once before the tournament started, and I ended up missing the cut by one.   So I came back and played Sunday before I went back home.  
   
 Q.   But this is perfect today, this year?   
JEFF ROTH:   Yeah, if the wind picks up.   I think the wind is the big thing because that narrows the fairways, and that makes the pin placements a little bit more difficult to get to.   
I'm sure the guys have figured out by now you don't really hunt for the pin.   You kind of hit it towards the center of the green and work it one way or the other to get to the pin because if you hit it at the pin, the green is just going to repel it, versus if you're coming in there from the center of the green to the pin, it's working into the slope, and that's why I'm sure some of the scores were really good.   That and no wind.  
   
 Q.   Do you see it getting tougher as the week goes on?   
JEFF ROTH:   I think what will make it tougher will be any kind of wind, and then more speed on the greens.   I think that and a little bit more push down.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT