U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 30, 2011
Jeffrey Roth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Couple bogies on the end, what happened there?   
 JEFF ROTH: Tough holes and probably got a little tired. I was feeling it on 17. It's just such a long hole for me because I've got to play the fairway as it's laid out. I can't cut any corners. It's a hard hole. It's 460, 70 yards, it's a driver, 3-wood or driver 2-hybrid, and it's probably the only green I haven't hit all week.  
  
  Q. How many tickets did you have to come up with for today?   
 JEFF ROTH: A few, yeah.  
  
  Q. Was there a good contingent following you from back home Michigan?   
 JEFF ROTH: Yeah, family and friends and probably go back up that way tonight and have a little dinner with them.  
  
  Q. How far of a drive is it from here?   
 JEFF ROTH: Up to where I used to live is probably an hour and a half, hour 45 minutes.  
  
  Q. Flushing?   
 JEFF ROTH: Yep.  
  
  Q. The place that you have on the leaderboard, if someone told you a couple weeks ago, would it have been a surprise and are you happy with what where you're sitting? Do you have anything left in the tank to take it further and do something with it?   
 JEFF ROTH: Well, last year I was in this position playing with Bernhard in the last group of the third round and really probably the situation was a little overwhelming. But today I kind of drew from that. I've won a lot of golf tournaments, but I think pressure is pressure. That's the way I see it. It just depends on how you want to manage it. If you want to think you're on the big stage, you're going to be overwhelmed.   
 Everybody's got that choking point, and I managed it a lot better today, I thought. It's too bad I made a couple bogies coming in, but that's the way it goes. Not going to make everything and chip everything in like I did today. So I'm just going to try to play each shot the best I can, which is kind of a cliche, but pressure's pressure.   
 The interesting thing about it is I really don't feel any pressure, any nervousness, which is great because now I can go out and play right from the git-go instead of working into the round. I've had enough experience and I'm getting to that point in my career where, even though I haven't won any Tour event, I've kind of been there, done that on my level. So I'm just playing golf.  
  
  Q. Yesterday you said your irons were really strong and you were hitting the ball close to the hole. Was it a case of that again today or was it not as precise?  
 JEFF ROTH: I don't think I played as well today as yesterday. Yesterday I played a great round of golf and even left a couple shots out there. Today I was cruising along. Birdied 10, 11, 12, got it to 9-under, and made a nice par save on 13.   
 14, I didn't hit that bad of a shot. Didn't hit that bad of a bunker shot. I had a tough lie. There was a clump of sand behind my balls so I couldn't stop it, and I missed probably about an 8-footer.   
 I think given the conditions, I did okay. I'm not real happy about the bogey I made on 17 just because I think I made that bogey just because I was wearing out. And I had a good opportunity on 18, I just didn't hit a hard enough putt.  
  
  Q. How do you keep from wearing out tomorrow?   
 JEFF ROTH: Try to get some rest, drink a few beers and relax. I'm definitely going to do that. That's all can you do is try to conserve whatever energy you have and hydrate yourself. I'll be fine.  
  
  Q. How's the course playing versus the way it played Thursday and Friday?   
 JEFF ROTH: Personally I'd like to see it play a little firmer, you know, because I don't hit it so long. When you're hitting it 260 and everybody else is hitting it 280, 290, it's a big disadvantage on the holes that you need it.   
 But this golf course, it may not be as well suited for me as Sahalee, but it's pretty well-suited for me because the small targets and guys aren't going to be hitting a lot of greens. If they are, they're going to be leading the tournament. So you've got to get it up-and-down, and I can get it up-and-down with anybody so I'm not shy about saying that.   
 But the course played just fine. Given the situation with the weather, I think the course is playing great.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT