U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 29, 2011
Jeffrey Roth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JEFF ROTH: Well, after yesterday it was I played really sloppy into the greens, and I think I only hit seven or eight greens, but it's not because I drove it bad. I drove it great. I hit a bunch of fairways, but I hit it so bad into the greens I had to make it up-and-down eight out of 10 times yesterday. So that kind of saved that score. 
 I went to the range yesterday and just hit a bunch of balls kind of off my left leg for about an hour just to kind of remind me of the things I've been working on with my golf swing. And today was just the opposite. I think I hit maybe 15 greens or so, and I was perfect off the tee, and I was real good into the greens today. I think I only missed three greens. 

 Q. Was it length or did you hit it close?
 JEFF ROTH: I hit it pretty close all day and made a couple of nice par savers. I made a nice par saver on 17. Hit it in the bunker left. Made a decent bunker shot and maybe made probably about a 12- or 14-footer for par. 

 Q. Now the Senior Open, big stage, does that bring better play out for you?
 JEFF ROTH: Well, you know, I tried playing the Champions Tour for a couple of years after turning 50, and I had some success. But obviously not enough success to stay out here The Senior Tour is not set up for career club pros like myself unless you're fortunate to come out and really make a splash and win. 
 So I had some good finishes and played well and got back in the golf business at San Juan Country Club in Farmington, New Mexico, and really enjoying the transition out there from Michigan because I spent my whole career in Michigan working for some great people out there. 
 When I get a chance to play, I'd really like to compete, and I try to keep my game tip-top. I enjoy competing.

 Q. Where were you in Michigan? 
 JEFF ROTH: Well, I went to high school in Plymouth, spent my professional career in Birmingham, Bloomfield, Flint, lived for 20 years up in Flushing which is northwest of Flint. 
 And that's all my kids know is Flushing, Michigan. So it was a big transition for them to go out to New Mexico, but everybody's doing great and we're having a great time out there.

 Q. Does it mean more to play well so close to home? 
 JEFF ROTH: Well, it does. I've got a lot of friends and some family here. Now that I'm playing the weekend, hopefully we'll have some more. My brother's coming in from California, so it should be a real good weekend.

 Q. Do you feel like you've found something by going to the range and that's going to continue for you? 
 JEFF ROTH: Well, I hope so. I've been playing good all year. I should have qualified for Congressional. I had made a bogey on the last hole. All I needed was a par to qualify for Congressional, and then I didn't get the spot in the playoffs, so that was a big disappointment. 
 But this is nice to be able to play the weekend again like I did last year at Sahalee and hopefully play a little better on the weekend.

 Q. What sight for the U.S. Open did you miss out on? 
 JEFF ROTH: It was at Oakmont in Glendale. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT