U.S. OPEN
August 28, 2007
Wayne Odesnik
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions.   
  
  Q.  After a match like that, how important is it to come away with a victory?   
 WAYNE ODESNIK:  You don't want to lose 7-6 in the fifth, huh (smiling)?   
 No, it was funny, because the whole time I didn't have any doubts.  I had set points in the first set.  I won the next two sets.  I mean, I thought he was in incredible shape, as well.  Started cramping.   
 Took an injury timeout in the tiebreaker.  Plus the crowd helped me a lot to get through that.   
  
  Q.  You seemed pretty exasperated or frustrated he took that timeout.  Could you believe at that time he's getting medical attention?   
 WAYNE ODESNIK:  I wasn't sure if it was a little bit of a sportsmanship thing or if he really was cramping.  Worked out well for me, so I'm not complaining.   
  
  Q.  There's been a lot of talk about who are the next Americans.  You and John have had good summers, big wins.  Talk about your rise this summer.   
 WAYNE ODESNIK:  Yeah, I mean, I think I've been doing really well lately.  Maybe because I'm not 6'10", serve 140 miles an hour, some of the spotlight hasn't been on me.   
 Most people don't know really who I am, but I'm starting to make my way.  Hopefully people will take notice.   
  
  Q.  Is there something that changed this summer?   
 WAYNE ODESNIK:  I've been working with a new fitness trainer.  Just been working really hard.  Maybe maturing a little bit, coming to grips with who I am.  Just really taking each day one day at a time.   
  
  Q.  What did Montréal do for you confidence-wise?   
 WAYNE ODESNIK:  It was huge for me, realizing that I can play with the best players in the world.  I just feel each day I'm trying to improve, get better.   
 So coming into here I started to feel like I belong with these players.  I'd say for the last three, four months I've been playing top 50, top 100 tennis, maybe even a little better.  It's just a matter of time before it shows in my ranking.   
  
  Q.  When you said "coming to grips with who you are"?   
 WAYNE ODESNIK:  I mean just every day as every day it's a job, putting in the hours, the stretching, the running, the practice hours.  Realizing that and being disciplined with it, you know, knowing that this is what I want to do and I won't stop till I reach my goals.   
  
  Q.  You mentioned your trainer.  How much did that play a part?   
 WAYNE ODESNIK:  I mean, I'm from Florida, near Miami, so I've been training there.  It was a huge advantage coming from I think that type of climate and coming here.  I'm in great shape right now.  It showed today.   
  
  Q.  Where do you train?   
 WAYNE ODESNIK:  Pretty much all over South Florida.  Sometimes at Key Biscayne.  I've been practicing there quite a bit.  Now the USTA's facilities are moving to Evert's in Boca.  I'll probably be training out of there.   
  
  Q.  What is your coaching situation?   
 WAYNE ODESNIK:  Well, coaching, you know, I usually don't travel with a coach.  Challengers and those type of circuits, it's tough financially.  Hopefully this will help my situation.   
 I've been working with -- a little bit with the USTA at times.  One guy, Francisco Montana, has been helping me.  Wasn't able to make it here.  Still back in Miami.  Another guy for the last few years I've consulted with and has been a very big great friend and inspiration is Ellis Ferreira.  He was the No. 1 doubles players in the world and was actually here today watching my match.  They've both been helping me a lot tremendously.   
  
  Q.  Do you have something set up with the Evert Academy?   
 WAYNE ODESNIK:  No.  The USTA, Jay Berger, sometimes I hit with him.  But pretty much whoever is in South Florida I practice with.   
  
  Q.  What age were you with when you came from South Africa to South Florida?   
 WAYNE ODESNIK:  I believe I was three.  Pretty much American now, full American.   
  
  Q.  Both of your parents are South African?   
 WAYNE ODESNIK:  Both of my parents are South African.  Born there.  Moved here and we all have our citizenships and green cards, so now Americanized.   
  
  Q.  John has talked about going to college, and how each player has to make different decisions as to what to do.  Can you talk about your decision when you went pro?   
 WAYNE ODESNIK:  I started very young.  I had some success when I was 16, 17.  I'd already won a few satellite tournaments.  Got a wildcard here at 18 into the US Open.  Had chances too in my first round.   
 At that point I had to decide:  College or pro.  I felt, you know, that I was ready.  That's what I wanted to do.  It's been a long road, process.  I'm still young, only 21.  I feel like this is the moment for me to make my move.   
  
  Q.  Could you describe your expectation before and after the game?   
 WAYNE ODESNIK:  He's a great player, a great fighter.  I think he's No. 1 from Thailand or No. 2.  A little bit before the match, you know, doesn't matter who you play, but I was a little bit nervous the last couple days, especially you don't play Monday.  You have to wait.   
 I've been here for four or five days already.  The first set you already have some nerves.  I think we both did.  I was up 5-2 and I ended up losing that set.  It felt like a rollercoaster, that match.   
 So afterwards I'm a little bit tired, but I'm very pleased I was able to pull it out.   
  
  Q.  Is that your longest match?   
 WAYNE ODESNIK:  Yeah.  First time playing five sets.  I'm, what, a hundred percent in five-set matches?   
  
  Q.  How about your next round?   
 WAYNE ODESNIK:  I haven't even looked at the draw.   
  
  Q.  Chela.   
 WAYNE ODESNIK:  Chela, yeah.  Another great Argentine player.  I also play well on clay.  I like playing these type of players.  I feel confident in my game.  I can go out with anyone and do my best.   
  
  Q.  Do you feel confident physically bouncing back from five sets?   
 WAYNE ODESNIK:  Yeah.  That's why you put in the hours.  I've been training very hard for this.  I'm sure by Thursday I'll be fine.   
  
  Q.  Who are you with sponsor-wise?   
 WAYNE ODESNIK:  With Lotto, as far as clothing.  Racquet is Prince.   
  
  Q.  Is your dad a jeweler?   
 WAYNE ODESNIK:  Yeah, my dad is still a jeweler.   
  
  Q.  Jewelry story?   
 WAYNE ODESNIK:  He's had a jewelry store, manufacturing with jewelry.  You should buy some (smiling).   
  
  Q.  Is your family here?   
 WAYNE ODESNIK:  My mother came up yesterday with my grandfather to watch.  My dad, he can't watch, so.  Too nervous.  Makes me too nervous.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT