MOUNTAIN WEST WOMEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
March 12, 2019
Stacie Terry
Najé Murray
Sophia Ramos
Mallory Adams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Wyoming - 75, San Diego State - 70 (OT)   
THE MODERATOR: We're joined by San Diego State, head coach Stacie Terry and student-athletes Mallory Adams, Najé Murray and Sophia Ramos.  Coach, an opening statement.   
COACH TERRY: What a fun game to watch again.  Overtime again.  Offensive juggernaut.  This hurts.  It hurts, because I felt like this group of young women put themselves in a great situation to be successful, and the ball didn't bounce our way tonight.   
But I thought they played with so much grit and tenacity and heart for 45 minutes.  So I know someone has to lose.  I just hate it was us, because they played their hearts out.  I asked them not to leave anything out there.  And I think that they did that.  Just proud of this team.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions?   
 Q.  Ladies, give us your thoughts about the tournament and how you played.  
NAJÉ MURRAY: I was just telling the two of them, I don't think we went into the year thinking we're going to put ourselves in a position to win the conference.  And I think that now feeling what we just did and what we just -- what we weren't supposed to do.  No one expected anything like this.   
So, I mean, I'm proud -- it hurts for sure -- but I mean I can't say how incredible this group is for putting something together that no one expected.  We flipped this conference tournament upside down for the wins we did.  And I think we kind of made our statement, and it's going to be different next year, and I think people should be ready for it.   
SOPHIA RAMOS: I couldn't be more proud to be a part of this team.  We fought the entire game.  We were the underdogs from the beginning.  I think a lot of people underestimated us coming in as a 7 seed.  I know the 7 seeds have done some big things the last couple of years, but coming in as a young team with a lot of new faces, just I think we really made a statement for what's to come for our future and how bright it is.   
MALLORY ADAMS: I'm just really happy to be part of this team.  We're a great group of girls.  And, like, even Coach has said sometimes we're all the we have.  We might be the only ones that think we can do it.  But that's special.  We know we can do it.  And I'm just proud that we were able to make our statement at this tournament and do some things that most probably didn't expect for us to do.  And I just think that we'll be back next year.  And we'll be ready.   
 Q.  Coach, I'm looking at a score -- I don't want to bring up a bad memory -- but early in the season against Wyoming, a big lopsided loss.  Tonight you take them to the overtime and gave yourself a chance to win?  
COACH TERRY: We talked about that before.  They knew.  We watched film on it all day today.  And they saw how much we have grown from that first chance playing them.  So that was really a testament to how hard they worked.   
And they were so confident because they knew, they knew that they deserved this moment and they worked hard for it.  And I can't wait -- it's crazy because you're, like, okay now it's over.  I don't know if it's really set in that it's over and that I'm not going to see them in practice tomorrow.   
After I give them a couple of weeks off I'm so motivated to get back in the gym with them because these kids are going to be really, really good.  They already are good, but I'm excited to get back to work.   
 Q.  You started a very young team as we talked about before.  Does a week like this give you guys confidence going into next year?  
NAJÉ MURRAY: Absolutely, we have a lot of years.  The conference should be a little worried.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT