MOUNTAIN WEST WOMEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
March 10, 2019
Stacie Terry
Mallory Adams
Sophia Ramos
Naje' Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








STACIE TERRY: It was a defensive battle.  I thought both teams came out and really defended well tonight, made it really hard to score, both of us, on our opponents.  I'm really proud of our kids for coming in and gutting out this really tough win.  Air Force is a really good ballclub, and they're getting better every single year.  She's done a phenomenal job recruiting and bringing in a lot of young talent, and they can get down in a stance and defend.
I was talking with my team, I was just really proud that we matched their defensive effort.  That's the key for us as we continue to grow is our defense improving and continuing to improve.
Q. Seemed like Air Force, they always play hard, and you guys just seemed to have the answer tonight every time they cut it close.  You would make a big basket.  I was going to ask the players how it felt out there and if they appreciate how hard they play.  You guys always just seemed to have the answer tonight.
SOPHIA RAMOS: We just are a really well-coached team.  We have a lot of competitive practices.  So it's a lot of gamelike situations for us.  We've been in a lot of close games, so I think this has just helped us a lot to prepare for the tournament.
Q. Mallory, you had a big game with 20 points.  Just feeling good tonight, the shot was there?
MALLORY ADAMS: Yeah, I thought it was pretty good.  I feel like first half things were a little bit more open, and they really came out second half and really shot a lot of us down.  It was really hard for us to get downhill, which caused them to go on runs, and then we would answer back with a run.  But it was really competitive the entire game.
Q. Naje', they started out with a little bit of a run but you guys came back and didn't give up the rest of the game.  Was it just your intensity?
NAJE' MURRAY: Yeah, you know, we're a really tenacious team.  We are used to that situation.  So when we have a cushion, we kind of gather ourselves, okay, guys, we've been in this before, this is nothing new for us, so I think once we've been in those situations where it comes down to big-time plays, I think we will always be prepared for those.
Q. The tournament experience, it's an intense couple days, but do you look forward to it?  Is it a good experience for you?  I imagine it is.
MALLORY ADAMS: Absolutely, it's a great feeling, especially to come out with a win.
Q. You'll recover enough for tomorrow and be ready to go?
MALLORY ADAMS: I think so, yeah.
NAJE' MURRAY: Ice baths for everybody.
Q. Coach, Air Force talked about having a young team, which they are, but you're a young team, also.
STACIE TERRY: We're really young.  And I'm really excited about what we're going to do in the future.  We're starting two freshmen and two sophomores and a junior who literally arrived the day school started.  You know, we're going to give it all this tournament here and hopefully be victorious on Wednesday.  But the future is bright for San Diego State women's basketball.
Q. I agreed with you how hard they played because Air Force is hard to play with their intensity.
STACIE TERRY: It's such a good defensive team, and every game that we've played since I've been here has been a battle, and she's done, like I said, a really good job in improving, and they're bringing in really quality kids, and they have some young freshmen that really got after us defensively.  So proud of our kids to match it.  We gave up or held them to 20 points in the second half.  That's the type of defense that's always going to win you games.
Q. How do you feel going forward to Wednesday?  Feel pretty confident?
STACIE TERRY: I'm excited.  You know, we've played New Mexico close both times, even at the Pit.  I thought it was a tight game down the stretch, and we gave ourselves a good chance with a couple minutes to go in New Mexico, and then obviously beat them at home.  You know, Mike does a great job.  They want to push.  They want to really play at a fast pace, and that's what I think we're at our best, too.  So it's going to be fine.  I think our kids are confident and ready.  If we can just manage those highs and lows, I think we can give ourselves a really good shot to win tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT