MOUNTAIN WEST WOMEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
March 6, 2017
Stacie Terry
Geena Gomez
McKynzie Fort
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








San Jose State - 76  San Diego State - 58
COACH STACIE TERRY: Obviously this wasn't the result that we wanted.  But I thought San Jose State took us out of what we wanted to do.  And we got frustrated early on.  And then we started to make a couple of runs and then couldn't quite connect on some of the easy ones we normally get.  We didn't shoot the ball very well tonight.  And that's -- that was disappointing, because I know that these student-athletes, they worked their tails off to make those shots, and seemed like there was a lid on the basket tonight.  We knew with San Jose State, obviously being the third time we played them, they score in bunches, and so we needed to do the same.
I thought defensively we made some adjustments that kept us in the game early on, and then kind of went away from that.  But we're excited about the potential of this team, the majority of our kids coming back are juniors, underclassmen.  So I'm hoping that next year we're talking first instead of second.
Q. Coach talked about the shooting and it did seem like you guys were getting off decent shots, decent looks at times.  But how much was their defensive pressure just getting to you, so when you would come down and get that shot was it in your head possibly or some of the other players' heads, how much did they have an effect on you mentally with their defensive pressure?
McKYNZIE FORT: Honestly, I felt it was more on us.  We had the open looks.  They like to play fast, that might have dictated our offense and sped us up.  We're a team that also tries to play fast, as well.  But their defense is good.  I wouldn't take that away from them.  I think it was more so us focusing on what we do as Aztecs.
GEENA GOMEZ: I completely agree.  I think they sped us up, but I think we missed a few bunnies that we normally make.  Like Coach said, there was a lid on the basket tonight.
Q. What are some things that you can take, you said that you have some positives, what are some positives that you can take from this season and that you are looking forward to as far as the positive impacts that you see?
COACH STACIE TERRY: Well, first off, those two are coming back, and they're a big part of what we do.  Lexy Thorderson, who didn't shoot the ball well tonight, she's a lights-out shooter, and she's a junior coming back.  Our junior class is really special.  So that's a good thing.
I want to highlight our freshman Baylee Vanderdoes, she gave us a punch in the paint.  That's a great thing to give her confidence going in the off season, helping her realize that she has a lot of work to do but she has a lot of potential, and I think that was probably the bright spot for me is our post play tonight.
We did a good job getting her the ball, looking for her.  She missed one -- she only missed one, but I was mad because she was off balance.  She's going to be really, really good.  And I'm excited to get her in the off season to obviously get her stronger, faster, and being able to do a little more on the court for us.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT