MOUNTAIN WEST WOMEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
March 8, 2016
Stacie Terry
Ahjalee Harvey
Ariell Bostick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Colorado State - 53    San Diego State - 41
THE MODERATOR: Coach, start with thoughts on today's game.
HEAD COACH STACIE TERRY: I thought congratulations to Colorado State for doing a great job and coming out with a victory today.  But I wanted to also congratulate my squad for the fight that I saw in them, the dedication to the game plan.  We had a great game plan to keep the score low.  We knew we had a chance if we kept it low.  We made it look ugly.  That wasn't just because they played bad, that had something to do with how we defended.  And really proud of their effort and what we've been able to do in the second half of this conference season and what we were able to do here in the tournament.
We leave with heavy hearts but we're excited about the future and what's to come.
Q. You said it best with your defense.  You guys went on multiple scoring droughts, 6-minute, 7-minute runs where you didn't get a point.  And you look up and you're only down by 5 or 7.  For the ladies, does that keep your confidence level high with how well you were playing defensively?  Were you able to not necessarily focus on how bad the offense was going for you?
AHJALEÉ HARVEY: Definitely.  I think that our defense definitely gets us going.  When we're able to pressure and eliminate a team from scoring, that always works in our favor.  We know we wanted to eliminate really their 3's.  We were able to do that and kind of keep them in the 2 range.  And that gave us momentum going into the second half.
HEAD COACH STACIE TERRY: That was definitely our game plan.  Going back and watching all the film, my staff and I, we know Colorado State very well and we made them go to their B move.  And they have a lot of weapons, a lot of weapons on their team.  And we held the majority of them in check, except for one.  So for the most part we did exactly what we needed to do and even had a chance to win this thing, as poorly as we played on the offensive side.
We made some defensive errors down the stretch.  But that's who we've been all year.  You never know what team is going to show up on offense, and sometimes we're really good, and sometimes we're not so good.  But their effort has been phenomenal these last 10 to 12 games.  And that's what put us in the place where we were today.
Q. Their rebounding, too, they out-rebounded you by 10.  In the first half, for as bad as the shooting was you had zero offensive rebounds, giving yourself no second-chance opportunities.  Was it just difficult inside against a team like that when they're so long and bigger?
HEAD COACH STACIE TERRY: Well, they weren't shooting the ball either very well, and they didn't have a whole lot of offensive rebounds, either.  They're so tall and we're so small.  These little bitty girls here, they're little but mighty.  They just beat us in that category.  So they had some height on us.
I didn't think we got some calls down the stretch maybe we should have.  But we tried our best to attack.  We need to get better on the glass.  My staff and I are going to sit down and figure out how to do that.  We were missing, and we should have been crashing harder.  I think we balanced it out, making sure they didn't get the offensive rebounds, as well.
Q. Yesterday, Coach, we talked about the whole playing here, going home, coming back, and you were comfortable with them going home, sleeping in their own beds.  Anything maybe as far as playing yesterday, having to come back and play the first game today, were they tired at all?
HEAD COACH STACIE TERRY: That was tough.  We didn't have a lot of time to prepare.  But I tell you, these kids, they were in it to win it in the war room last night trying to come up with the game plan.  My staff put an excellent game plan together for them to follow and they executed it to the fullest, to the best that they possibly could.
Colorado State is a very good team.  They're ranked and No. 1 in our conference because they're very, very good.  I thought we gave them all that they wanted.  This score wasn't by chance.  This is how we wanted to play.  We knew we had to keep them in the low scoring battle to have a shot and they did a great job executing our game plan, we just came up short.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT