HUMANA CHALLENGE IN PARTNERSHIP WITH THE CLINTON FOUNDATION
January 25, 2015
Sung Joon Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Good round.   Tell me about what in particular happened to go right for you today.   What was working?  
SUNG JOON PARK:   You know what, I just been playing really consistent golf, myself.   After missing the cut on Saturday and my goal was just to try to make the cut and play every single hole one at a time.   
I didn't, at the end of the hole, I didn't even know what my score was.   And then I found out I shot 7‑under today.   So, it was quite ‑‑ I think I focused quite well today, just on every shot.   
   
 Q.   That last putt obviously meant an awful lot.   It puts you in a log jam right here.   You stood over it quite awhile.   Was that normal or were you feeling a little bit of pressure on that putt?  
SUNG JOON PARK:   A bit of both, actually.   I take a little bit of time with my putting, but I did have a little pressure, but I tried not to have that, because like the last hole I just laid up, you know, I was really playing smart and I ended up with a birdie, so it was really good.  
   
 Q.   Are you going to go hit balls or what?  
SUNG JOON PARK:   I'm going to go practice and then, yeah, just wait for these guys to finish.   
   
 Q.   So you said you were not sure even on 18 where you stood in the standings?  
SUNG JOON PARK:   No, I was just playing my golf and then I wasn't even know how many under I was, you know.   Just playing my golf.   That's what I was trying to do all day, just try to focus every shot, not looking at the other players.   
   
 Q.   Win or lose here, what's this mean for the reshuffle to you and obviously it's early soot season, it means a lot.   
SUNG JOON PARK:   Yeah, well for me my goal was to try to make a cut in every tournament and to play all four rounds.   And also to try to finish Top‑20 was my goal to get the reshuffle.   But today I think my conditioning was good and I ended up with a good score, so I'm very happy for myself.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT