JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 12, 2012
Ted Potter, Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How tough is it to many come back and put your nose to the grind stone and play a round at tough course.   Is it possible to be too happy and golf well?  
TED POTTER, JR.:   No, definitely No.   Definitely built a lot confidence last week feel good about my game just feels good to keep playing well.  
   
 Q.   What was your experience with this course?  
TED POTTER, JR.:   Second time around, it's been good so far.   Like the track.   A lot of good and tough holes out there.   Especially No. 9.   That's a long hole for me.  
   
 Q.   What's been clicking for you the last five rounds?  
TED POTTER, JR.:   Ball‑striking has been very good, hitting a lot greens, and then putter has been kicking into gear the last week, so definitely making some putts now.  
   
 Q.   Those putts you made on 8 and 9, pretty good saves.  
TED POTTER, JR.:   Yeah, definitely.   Definitely felt good making those two par putts coming in to keep it going for tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   You sense people know who you are now?  
TED POTTER, JR.:   Yeah, a little bit.   I get definitely congratulations and a lot of people saying hello to me lately.  
   
 Q.   So cut, cut, cut, win.   How does that happen?   What's the difference here and there that...  
TED POTTER, JR.:   Everybody is so good out here.   Missing and making a cut is a fine line.   Just building confidence when you do play well.  
   
 Q.   How do you feel about 4‑under today?   
TED POTTER, JR.:   I feel really good about it, especially after last week.   I felt like I needed it play well this week, too.   Just keep grinding and keep playing like I did last week.  
   
 Q.   How are you handling all the extra attention?  
TED POTTER, JR.:   Feel like I've been doing pretty good with it.   
   
 Q.   Being part of Zach Johnson's gallery, is it different for you?   Do you block it out?   Embrace it?  
TED POTTER, JR.:   Just focus on what I'm doing.   Try to block it out I guess you could say.   Just head down, concentrate, and try to go about my own business.   
   
 Q.   When you say head down and concentrate, are you still having fun?   
TED POTTER, JR.:   Oh, yeah, this is a lot of fun.   Definitely having blast right now.   
   
 Q.   What's been the coolest reaction to your victory?   Any special messages?   
TED POTTER, JR.:   Not out of usual, I guess.   Everything has been good.   Got a bunch of text messages and phone calls.   It's been really good that way.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT