MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 5, 2018
Ted Potter, Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. You fought back really well after 11. Did some light switch go off with you?  
TED POTTER, JR: No, not necessarily. I finally made a birdie on 12, so that was a good start for a turn around, after doubling 11. After being 5‑over through 11, what's the worst that could happen? I needed to start attacking and try and make some birdies coming in. So thank goodness I made birdie at 12, 13, and then birdied 14, 15‑‑ or 15, 16, 17. So I'm happy to shoot 1‑over after how I started out.  
   
 Q. Was today a matter of, the bogeys, mostly 3‑putts, weren't they?  
TED POTTER, JR: I 3‑putted the last hole. The other one, no, it was just not getting up‑and‑down around the greens. 3 I hit, I thought it was a good wedge shot up there, probably 10 feet, but it landed just short of the green, spun down the ridge and hit a great flop shot up there and just missed the putt.   
3 and 4 I had two good looks at pars and just missed them.   
It wasn't really ‑‑ I didn't feel like I played bad on the first nine holes, I just didn't get up‑and‑down.   
   
 Q. What's it like going off first and being here starting the Tournament? Is it better to go off first or to wait around all day?  
TED POTTER, JR: Well, definitely, I got here Friday, so I've been here for almost a week, so I was eager to go, so I was happy to be first off.   
   
 Q. Play a little quicker?  
TED POTTER, JR: Yeah, I mean you get off to a good rhythm and stuff. Only bad thing is it was cold this morning, so guys teeing off late this afternoon don't have to deal with probably 20 yards longer holes than we did. It played pretty long early on. It's always good to get out in front and to get off to a good start on the first greens.  
   
 Q. Did you learn anything from 2013 you've been able to apply this week as far as preparation and maybe being ready for the moment?  
TED POTTER, JR: Yeah, I mean I learned little, little things around the course, where not to hit it in some locations. And I think it definitely will help you, the more times you play this golf course, the better you feel you're going to get around it and learn the slopes so you know where to hit it on certain hole locations. So I feel like I've learned a little bit about it. I only got two rounds in during the Tournament conditions, but I'm definitely more comfortable being here this year than I was the first year.   
   
 Q. What did you hit into 12?  
TED POTTER, JR: I hit 8‑iron on 12.   
   
 Q. Not many guys hit the shot ‑‑  
TED POTTER, JR: I hit 9‑iron.  
   
 Q. Not many guys hit a really good shot on 12 after a double on 11. How did you keep it from lingering?  
TED POTTER, JR: I like 12. 12 sets up good to me. I feel comfortable playing that hole. So 11 I'm, I've always, the four or five practice rounds I played this week I hit four out of five balls in the water there. It's just one of those holes that just gets to me. I'm not going to try to bail out, I mean I could have aimed 20 yards right of the green, but I'm trying to hit a golf shot, I'm not trying to do anything out of the normal that way. I'm just trying to hit a good golf shot there and came out of one there.  
   
 Q. How close on 13, how close did you come on that second shot to being in trouble?  
TED POTTER, JR: It landed right in the middle of the bunker there. There's a lot of room left there's quite a bit of room over there.   
   
 Q. 18, that first putt on 18, did you just want it a little bit too much?  
TED POTTER, JR: No, I hit a similar putt in the practice round, I came up like five, six feet short, so I knew I had to hit it a little firmer than I thought from earlier and that one just went a lot farther than I thought it would.   
   
 Q. The scores look like they're relatively high right now, 3‑under is leading, so a 1‑over is not bad shape, is it?  
TED POTTER, JR: No, I mean for, based on my last four, five events, 1‑over is pretty good. I struggled my first rounds and played good in my second rounds. So to get off to a decent start today, shooting 1‑over is not bad.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT