THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 7, 2018
Benoit Paire
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. DEL POTRO/B. Paire
6-4, 7-6, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Those of us who don't know you, with your leg, it was very heavily strapped since the beginning of the tournament even.
BENOIT PAIRE: Yeah, yeah, I had a tear in the meniscus.  That's why I did it.  It's arrive two days before the tournament, so I was not sure to play.  Finally I thought two days I was feeling nothing, so I said, Okay, I will try to play.  This is more for security.
But I have zero pain and I can play like normal.  I just put the tape for security every day.
Q. You went down very hard at one point when Juan Martin came over to help you.
BENOIT PAIRE: Yeah, yeah, I think so, because without the tape maybe it will be more painful and more dangerous, but the thing is at this moment I was leading 4-2 and then mentally it was tough to just focus on my game.  I was just a little bit stressed and I was feeling a little pain on my hip.
So I was scared, but after that, no, nothing happen.  So I'm 100% fit.
Q. Finger?
BENOIT PAIRE: The finger is okay.  I have just like blue.  I don't know how it happen.
Q. Jammed?
BENOIT PAIRE: I don't know.  I really don't know.  It happened just at the end.  Now it's blue.  I hope it's not serious, but I don't think so.
Q. You seemed quite frustrated at different parts of the game with the racquet and also towards the umpire.
BENOIT PAIRE: Yeah.
Q. What was your major frustration?
BENOIT PAIRE: No, my frustration was because I was losing.  I was focused on my match.  I stay in the match, so that's the most important thing.
Of course I have to be a little bit nervous about the umpire, because he never make an overrule, and I think at some moment it's important for him to do it, and he never did.  If it's just to stay in the chair, just can take a seat in the crowd.
Q. The crowds didn't seem to like the way you spoke to him.
BENOIT PAIRE: Oh, no, no, no, it's okay.  At the end, when I left off the court, all the people, they were so happy to see me for the last time, and honestly everything was good, very good.
Q. In the past let's just say you have said you're not the biggest fan of grass.
BENOIT PAIRE: Yeah.
Q. How do you feel now?
BENOIT PAIRE: I feel very good now on grass and I like to come in Wimbledon, so everything change for me mentally (smiling).
So now I'm really happy to be here, and I hope I will be here next year, for sure.  Yeah, honestly I play good on grass.  I have some good result.  Last year I lost against Murray in the fourth round, so this year it's third round against del Potro, is not easy.  But honestly, I really enjoyed my match today and playing against del Potro is a pleasure.
Q. Why didn't you like it before and what was the change?
BENOIT PAIRE: I was young and I was a little bit stupid.  So that's why I didn't like.  I was not expecting to play good with my game on this surface, but with my serve and with my hand finally I really appreciate to play on grass.
Q. Was it the movement?
BENOIT PAIRE: Yeah, movement was tough for me, because to move on grass it was first time for me because we don't have any grass courts in France.  So it's every time complicated.  Now I feel good, and even if I was close to die today, it was good (smiling).
Q. You're not having as many crazy shots as you were when you were younger on the grass, as well?
BENOIT PAIRE: Yeah, exactly.  But now I try to do everything.  I really enjoy my shot today against del Potro.  He made some good ones too.
Q. The losses you have had this year you've played some guys who really hit big.  Where do you put del Potro with the Cilices and Berdychs, and the other guys, power-wise?
BENOIT PAIRE: Yeah, I think he's big guy and very good guy.  When I lose my match it's every time in the second one, third one against some guy was seeded, and never easy.
When you see my last tournament, I lost against Nishikori in Roland Garros, I lost to Berdych in Stuttgart, to Federer, Cilic.  Honestly, yes, if I win this match, for sure the door is open.  But it's every time close and I have two match points against Federer.  I lost in five against Nishikori.  Now it was a tough match against del Potro, but honestly if I stay focused and play like this during all the year I will be better.
Q. Where do you put del Potro with the other guys, other power guys?  Where do you rank him in the power?
BENOIT PAIRE: He is very powerful.  Del Potro has big forehand and his serve is like crazy.  Honestly, I think he's one of the most powerful players.
Q. When you said to the umpire, You are a zero, what did you mean exactly?
BENOIT PAIRE: Zero is because when you stay on the chair and you don't make an overrule and you just announce the score, I think I can do the job.  So we don't need one chair umpire if it's just to stay and say the score.
Because for me, he has to do his job, he has to take some risk, he has to make some overrule.  Yeah, sometimes he say the line very far from me so I'm not sure.  But every time it was serve just in front of him and it was not one millimeter, it was every time on the line very clear.  I say you're a zero because you have to do something.
Q. Did you mean it in the sense, I would give you 0 out of 10 as an umpire?
BENOIT PAIRE: No, maybe 1 or 2 just for announcement of the score, because he did a good job.  So "new balls," "15-Love," it was a good job for him today.  But after, no.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT