MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 18, 2017
Benoit Paire
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
T. HAAS/B. Paire   
6-2, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French, please.   
 Q.  You were a bit nervous and angry after that match.  
BENOIT PAIRE: No, I was pretty calm after such a match.  It's a pity to play like this.   
But this can happen in a season.  I was able to make it to the semifinals last week.  After that I didn't sleep well.  Two weeks ago I was in the final, too.  I played a lot.   
I was feeling good.  On the court today I wasn't able to play.  It was a pity.   
 Q.  What do you think of Tommy Haas?  Are you surprised by his game at his age?  
BENOIT PAIRE: No, I'm not surprised.  I played him in Australia.  Today, if I had been able to play well, I wouldn't have lost.   
I see he's maybe 40 years old, but even against a player of 70 years I would have lost today because I wasn't able to play at all.  I'm just sad for myself.  It's good for him that he won.   
 Q.  You didn't feel well today?  
BENOIT PAIRE: I had a bit of pain everywhere.  I was tired.  I traveled.  I didn't sleep well.  I played doubles yesterday when I arrived.  I arrived at 11:00 and played my doubles immediately after, so I was tired.   
I'm just disappointed because I was playing well during practice.  I was really hitting well this morning during the warmup.  I was up a game, Love-30.  After that, I wasn't able to play anymore.   
 Q.  So what do you think?  
BENOIT PAIRE: Well, it's just a non-match, no match at all.  I'm disappointed.  But it's also part of the game.  I just need to think about something else and remember that I made it to the semifinals three times this year, I played well in Australia, had a good beginning of the season.   
I had to take a plane at 7:00 in the morning to come here.  The plane was two hours late.  When I arrived here, I had to play immediately.   
 Q.  Do you regret you played doubles yesterday?  
BENOIT PAIRE: No, I'm very happy I played doubles.   
You know, for today, there's not really an explanation.  I'm hitting the ball well in practice.  I was hitting well last week, too.  Apart from my match against Kohlschreiber, I was playing tennis well.  I just need to forget this match.   
 Q.  Do you believe your match against Kohlschreiber in Marrakesh affected you?  
BENOIT PAIRE: No, because even this morning, when I was warming up, I was hitting extremely well.  When I started the match, it was difficult for me from the start.  There's no particular explanation I think.  It's just a missed opportunity.  I just need now to think about Barcelona.  I can play well there.   
 Q.  Do you remember another missed match like this?  
BENOIT PAIRE: I had many of them last year, but these matches were due to the stress, to the pressure.  Here it was different.  Maybe when I was nine years old I missed as many balls as I did today.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT