MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 14, 2016
Benoit Paire
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. MURRAY/B. Paire   
2-6, 7-5, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   
 Q.  Were you stressed at 3-Love?  
BENOIT PAIRE: Yes.  I made a bad dropshot and a bad volley that wasn't too difficult.  I lost the game.  It was 3-1.  I started wondering.  It allowed him to get back into the match.  I wasn't playing the simple tennis I was playing from the start.  I was no longer waiting for the right shot to come.   
I think I should have won that match and I'm extremely disappointed.   
 Q.  But you had a good feeling on the court, right?  
BENOIT PAIRE: Yes.  I believe I will take those good feelings.  I'm playing good matches.  I have good results.  I'm close to the top players.   
What happened today, I was a bit stressed when it was at the point of trying to close out the match.  I made a mistake.  I should have just put the ball back into play, for example.  I have many regrets.   
 Q.  In the beginning of the match, was it you playing extremely well or him not adjusted to clay?  
BENOIT PAIRE: I don't know.  I was playing well.  I know I had no problems.  His shots were not hurting me.  I was hitting well.  I had the right tactics.  But later it became more complicated.   
I don't know if it's him or me.  What I remember from that match is I was supposed to win that match.  I was better than him for a long time in the match.   
 Q.  What would you do differently if you were again in the same type of situation?  
BENOIT PAIRE: It's difficult to say because every match is different and you have different feelings in different matches.  But here maybe I pushed too much and I wanted to do too much.  He was not hitting very big shots, he was not hurting me.  It was my fault I rushed.  I shouldn't have done that.   
It really hurts because I could have made the quarterfinals here, playing against Raonic, which is not his best surface.  Tomorrow everything would have been possible, I believe.  It would have been great for me to win that match.  It would have been an extremely good start for the clay court season.   
Even if I played well, it's always better when you win.   
 Q.  Do you feel able to win those matches?  
BENOIT PAIRE: Yes, I feel I am able to win them.  But I believe an opportunity like this one, you don't have 200 like these in your career.  I believe this loss will hurt me for a while.   
But I am confident that I will be able to bounce back and keep playing well.   
 Q.  The score is a bit strange.  
BENOIT PAIRE: Yes, I was dominating.  I just let it escape me.  Honestly, I don't feel very good about it right now.   
But this is a good period of the year for me.  I like playing on clay.  But that loss really hurts.  Some hurt more than others.  That one was against the No. 2 player.   
But I hope I'll keep playing as well.   
 Q.  What happened to you?  
BENOIT PAIRE: The match before was very important.  It gave me a lot of confidence.  I said that after the match.  I know for me it's important to win those matches because I know when I practice, my shots are good.  When I will be able to play those matches being more relaxed, I will be able to have good results.   
What is really a pity is I wasn't able to make this reality here in Monaco.  When you are able to have a chance to go to the quarterfinals, it's really a pity you're not able to make it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT