MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 13, 2016
Benoit Paire
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








B. PAIRE/J. Sousa
6-4, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French, please.
Q. The beginning of the match was tough.  But after that you played well.
BENOIT PAIRE: Indeed.  The beginning of the match was tough because he was playing very well.  But I'm very happy with this match.  I felt I was fit, I was hitting well.  But he made no unforced errors.  He was good with his returns.  If he was up 4-2, it's because he was playing better than I was at this stage.
But after I was able to make a difference.  I changed my tactics.  I played to his backhand more because his forehand was very solid.
It's a very good result for me today.  I said already the first round gave me confidence, and here I felt really good on the court.  My legs were feeling good.  Of course, I was able to win feeling so good.
Q. You were a bit concerned with your physical condition?
BENOIT PAIRE: Well, physically sometimes I'm paralyzed because of the stress.  When I do my physical preparation, everything goes well.  But when I'm playing the match, my legs are blocked because of the stress.
But it was not the case this morning.  Maybe because of the good match two days ago, it made me feel better.  I feel myself again, and I'm very pleased about that.
Q. How do you see the next match?
BENOIT PAIRE: I see it very positively for me.  He had a tough match against Herbert.  Of course, he's going to raise his level to show he can be one of the favorites for the French Open.
But I feel confident.  If I play like today, with the same state of mind, everything is possible.
Now, it is Andy Murray.  He's an excellent player.  I respect him a lot.  It's not going to be easy.  It's going to be a big battle.  I hope I will have some luck.
Q. What is the situation as far as your coach is concerned?  Is it still your brother?
BENOIT PAIRE: No.  My brother was available, but Lionel is still my coach.  He has some health problems right now.  That's why he's not here.  But he's still my coach.  I'm trying to do what I can right now.
I work with my brother.  I have close friends with me who help me by watching my matches on the court.  I think the situation is rather the way I deal with the stress.
I feel my forehand has improved a lot, my backhand is still good.  With my serve, I had ups and downs since the beginning of the year.  But when I feel confident, like today, I serve well.
I think everything is better now.  I just need to be confident and to have my legs again.
Q. So what were you texting?
BENOIT PAIRE: Lionel was texting to me to congratulate me for my match.  He's always very close to me.  Of course, he's not here in the tournament with me, but it is not because of that that I am not playing as well since the beginning of the year.  It has nothing to do with it.  It's just because I'm too stressed.
Sometimes I get up in the morning, I feel too stressed, my legs don't work anymore.
Q. Why all that stress?  You want to do well?
BENOIT PAIRE: Yes, I want to show I can do well.  I want to have a better ranking than top 20.  I think I'm able to do it.  People told me I had the potential of doing better.  This explains maybe that I'm too much under pressure.
Every time I was playing a match, I felt that pressure, and I don't think it was the right thing.  Now they don't believe in me anymore, and that's great.  I can feel free on the court.
I believe today I played a fantastic match, one of the best in my career on clay.  I need to keep going that way.
Q. You didn't imagine being top 5, top 10 was so difficult?
BENOIT PAIRE: Yeah, these guys are a lot better than I am mentally and physically.  Even if they don't feel that good, they are still able to play well, maybe because they worked more than I did and they are stronger than I am right now.
I have the shots on my racquet.  I just need to be more relaxed, like I was today.  I believe I can still play well, even if the beginning of the season was not so good.  I can have a better ranking.
Q. Would you like to have a mental coach, for example?
BENOIT PAIRE: Yes, I was told to seek out someone for that stress.  But things are going so well when I'm practicing, when I'm playing every day.  It only happens in the morning when I have to play a match.
They all tell me, We can't help you on that.  We're with you.  We'll support you.
They do everything they can for me to feel good.  Then it's just a matter of what is in my mind.  It's up to me now.
Q. So you're not going to hire this mental coach?
BENOIT PAIRE: No, not for the time being.
Q. The match you played against Andy Murray in the Hopman Cup, can it help you?
BENOIT PAIRE: No.  In exhibitions, it's always difficult for me to play well.  I was coming from an injury.  I didn't practice a lot before.  But, of course, I was able to see the quality of his game.  This is the style of game I prefer rather than playing against Federer, for example.
I know I will have the opportunity to hit hard and play good shots.  With what I can do in practice, if I can do the same during the match, I have my chances to beat him.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT