MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 11, 2016
Benoit Paire
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
B. PAIRE/I. Cervantes   
4-6, 6-2, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French, please.   
 Q.  This victory is good for you.  
BENOIT PAIRE: Any victory is good for you, but this one even more than others.  I was able to stay in the match and fight back and pull it out.  This victory is extremely good for me and it's good for my mental attitude.   
 Q.  You have trouble finding your highest level.  How come?  
BENOIT PAIRE: Well, there are many factors that enter into play.  We are humans.  For some players, they're above everybody else, like Novak Djokovic.  We are struggling.  Sometimes we feel better than others.   
Since the beginning of the year, I feel tired, I can't feel my legs.  It was complicated for my to play tennis.  My serve is not there.  My forehand is good during practice but is not good during matches.  So I had ups and downs.   
I'm trying to overcome this bad period as well as I can.  I feel that when I'm not too scared before starting a match, I can have good results.  But most of the time I am scared and I can't feel my legs and I lose.   
So I'm very happy about this victory today because in spite of being scared and not feeling my legs, I was able to fight and win the match.  It's extremely good for me.   
 Q.  The fact that Noah was here, did it help you?  
BENOIT PAIRE: Well, I have my family here.  I have close friends that are with me all year round when I'm playing.  These are the only people I'm looking to.  I don't care about who else is there.   
The important persons for me are my parents, all my family, all the friends that are close to me.  They made a lot of noise.  These people are the ones who lift me when I feel down, which is the case in this period.   
The beginning of the year was bad for me, and they were there to support me, to show that during difficult periods they were with me.  They helped me during the match.   
 Q.  You were upset by the show put on by Noah?  
BENOIT PAIRE: No, I was very happy with the atmosphere on the court.  I didn't even know he was there.  This is something I was told later in an interview.  But while I was playing, the people I try to look at are my family and my friends.   
I just loved the atmosphere on the court.  I enjoyed it a lot.  There were many children, too.  That's why I really did my best and struggled as much as I could.   
If Noah made a lot of noise, well, I think it's very good and I'm very happy about it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT