ROLAND GARROS
May 29, 2015
Benoit Paire
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  T. BERDYCH/B. Paire6-1, 6-7, 6-3, 6-4THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.Q. Something very noticeable in watching you always is how fast you play between points when you're serving.  Is that how you have always played?  Is there a reason for it?  When you have a tough match like today, do you ever adjust and think, Okay, I need to focus more?  Is it the thing that works best for you at all times?BENOIT PAIRE: I don't know.  I think I play every time like this in futures and challenger.  And Rafa play with long time between first and second and between points.  Me, I don't need a lot, so I play fast, but is not my fault.  I can decide if I want. Yeah, I saw Berdych was a little bit nervous about this, but I play like this, so I not gonna change because I play against him.THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.Q. There is nothing to be ashamed of, but we have a feeling that you couldn't feel the ball as well as against Fognini.  You played a good match.  You don't have to be ashamed of this loss.BENOIT PAIRE: I disagree.  In fact, I couldn't feel the ball at all.  Is that because of the wind?  I don't know.  Physically, I was okay.  I played a rather easy match against Fognini, but I didn't feel the ball very well. There were wind swells on the court.  I think it was a problem for him, as well.  All I tried to do was to fight back.  I couldn't play my game.  I could feel that my backhand wasn't going through, and that's a pity. I fought, I tried to keep calm when I realized that things were not going well at all on the court. I talked about this a minute ago with my coach.  I do realize that I could have -- I had an opportunity against Berdych.  This was not the greatest Berdych of all times, but I felt good. At the same time, I couldn't feel the ball well.  So this is how tennis goes.  Sometimes you win; sometimes you lose. Had I felt the ball better, maybe I could have been a problem against him, but that was not the case today.  I did what I could with my game.  I played well at the beginning of the tournament. Today wasn't all that good, but I played third round, and that makes me happy.Q. What would be your comment about this tournament?  Is it a satisfaction?BENOIT PAIRE: Well, it is a satisfaction, because I was injured last year, and I managed to play three rounds, three sets against Fognini, four sets against Berdych today, and I'm okay physically.  I know that I can play long matches. I started in futures playing guys who were ranked 1200th player.  So I'm happy I'm back.  I'm happy I played big players.  It's going to take time for me to understand everything that happened.  It will take time for me to be able and focus, be less nervous, get good feelings on the courts. But I'm happy with this Roland Garros.  I made it to the third round.  I wanted to do better, wanted to go to the second week, but good luck to Berdych for the rest of the tournament.Q. There was this crazy game in the second set where you tried six dropshots on six points.BENOIT PAIRE: Well, it was a problem for him each time.  If I lose it, they yell at me; if I win it, they applaud me.Q. Yeah, but did you want to push him to make mistakes?BENOIT PAIRE: No, my dropshots were not always the best ones, but he had difficulties coming to the net.  We saw it yesterday against Stepanek.  He always has difficulties coming to the net.  I have tried to do my best.  I would have done better had I had a good feeling of the ball. But on that game, yes, you're right.  I played six dropshots and I won four out of six, which is a good percentage. But my backhand was not with me today.  My forehand is what it is.  It's always been like that.  I'm okay with my forehand.  But my backhand, no.Q. What was your tactics with Lionel?BENOIT PAIRE: To play valid shots, to chip the ball, try dropshots.  Tactics have to change as the match progresses. When you realize you don't have your backhand with you, you try and fight and just have the ball in, keep the ball in the court. So I need to practice more to make sure I don't find myself in such a position when I can't feel the ball at all.  I played four sets against Berdych, but I didn't play my best level. I'm happy.  I played a good match against Fognini, against Elias.  I have not been on the courts for eight months and I'm very happy I'm back, although I lost today.Q. And now...BENOIT PAIRE: For tonight?  I don't know.  I'm not quite certain I will stay here.  Well, not joking, the rest of the season I will take a few days off to be with my family, and then I will start playing on grass.  I want to have a good season on grass.  My game is perfectly adapted to this surface, and I think I can do something quite good. I'll have to practice, but first I need to recover.  I have played quite a few matches.  I played doubles yesterday.  It was very tiring. So I need to recover, take a rest, empty my head and start practicing on grass to give my best, which I have been doing since the beginning of this year.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT