ROLAND GARROS
May 25, 2015
Benoit Paire
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  B. PAIRE/G. Elias  5-7, 6-3, 4-6, 6-4, 6-2    THE MODERATOR: Questions in French, please.   Q.  First victory in five sets here at Roland Garros.  How do you feel?  BENOIT PAIRE: I feel very good.  I would have preferred winning in three or four sets, but as I said, the most important thing for me today was winning. I walked on the court with Lionel, and we both agreed that playing beautiful tennis was not important.  What was important was to win, because I was playing somebody from the quallies.  He was used to the court conditions and to the balls. I fought, and I remained aggressive, so I managed to take a break in the fifth.  I won.  So it's a great satisfaction for me to win here.  Any victory is great here, whether in three sets or five sets.  I'm happy I can play the second round.   Q.  What are you happy about and what are you not happy about today?  BENOIT PAIRE: I'm happy about my behavior.  I kept fighting.  I never surrendered, although sometimes it was difficult.  I thought my shots were not as good as I wanted them to be, but I fought.  I never surrendered. I thought, Okay, you're at Roland Garros.  You have been injured for eight months last year, so you need to keep on playing.  This is what I had to do. I'm so happy.  It's a beautiful victory.  I'm so happy.  I have to play the second round against Fabio.   Q.  Do you like playing Fognini?  Because he's a special player.  BENOIT PAIRE: Well, it's very exciting to play Fabio.  I have a lot of respect for him.  I love watching him play.  I go and see his matches, because he's such a special character on the court. Do I like playing him?  I don't know.  I think I would have preferred playing someone else, but that's the draw.  I could have played him first round, you know, so it's good at second round.  I will do everything I can to win. I love him, but I want to win, and I want to go to the third round. So, yes, he's somebody special, but I'll have to deal with it and play my game and we'll see what happens. I think I won once and he won once, so I'm impatient playing this match, although I need to relax now, because five sets is a tough match.   Q.  Do you think you are more crazy than him?  BENOIT PAIRE: I think he's more crazy than I am (smiling).  I'm quite crazy myself, but he can be worse. No, this is Roland Garros.  This is a Grand Slam.  He has excellent results on clay courts this year.  He won to Nadal.  This is going to be a difficult match. But this is Roland Garros, and I will have the French crowd supporting me.  So I hope I can play a bit better than I did today to feel more free, and I hope I can win this match to Fabio so that I can play the third round.  It's going to be difficult, but I'm looking forward to it.   Q.  How will you prepare to play such a player?  You have totally different profiles.  So what can you do to be of disturbance to him?  BENOIT PAIRE: Well, although he has a very specific game, I know his basics.  He's very good on his forehand.  Not that good on his backhand. He's very strong mentally speaking.  But his game is quite simple.  So I will try to be aggressive.  I'll have to come to the net on his backhand, have him play on the backhand as much as I can. So he's a traditional clay-court player, but then he can play dropshots and absolutely wonderful shots, also, and that's what makes him so strong. So I will have to be aggressive and be fit, because I just played five sets and I'm out of practice.  I have not been on the court for eight months last year. But I'm confident.  I know I can beat him, especially here at Roland Garros.   Q.  This could rally lots of the crowd.  Would you prefer playing him on a big court or on a small court?  BENOIT PAIRE: I think it's going to be on a big court, because that's kind of a shock, second round shock as a match.  Fabio always attracts a big crowd.  I am French, so it's going to attract a big crowd. But I want to win, so I will try to do my best to win this match, whether I play on a big or small court. I'm very happy with my first round and I need to enjoy this before I start thinking about the second round.   Q.  Are you going to talk with your coach and avoid watching him?  BENOIT PAIRE: Oh, come on.  He's just a player.  You have seen that during his first round.  He played three straight sets. He's just a very good tennis player.  I expect a big fight against him, but I'm not thinking, Okay, I'm playing Fabio Fognini.  It's going to be a crazy match.  All I'm thinking is it's going to be a great and difficult tennis match. So I want to do my best.  I need to win this match.  Whatever happens on the court, even if he blows a fuse or if I get frustrated, I will have to try and win. This is what I will talk about with my coach.  We won't talk about him as a personality.  We will talk about his game and talk about my game.  Because I want to feel free with my shots.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT