BNP PARIBAS MASTERS
October 30, 2012
Benoit Paire
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 K. NISHIKORI/B. Paire
  7‑6, 6‑2 
  
  THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   
   
 Q.   Was the frustration of losing the first set too difficult to put behind you for the rest of the match?  
BENOIT PAIRE:   Yes.   It was frustration and also tiredness because the season was very long and I played yesterday.   I didn't finish before 11:00 p.m., and when I went back home it was more than midnight.   By the time I had some food, it was late.   The night was not long enough.  
Today time went by too quickly.   I wanted to rest, but then some players [] retired.   Some matches were quick.   So it's not so much losing the first set, it's something more general.   I played a very good first set, and I'm happy with that match.  
   
 Q.   How could you make it difficult for him in the beginning of the match?  
BENOIT PAIRE:   Yes, I broke before he did, and I believe I was able to counterattack pretty well against him.   
In the beginning of the match I was feeling physically well.   I was able to sustain long rallies.   He was not hurting me, but he was having me run right and left.   Each time I was able to get to the ball.   
Rallies were long and tight.   We broke each other, and it was not much difference between the two of us.   I had a set point.   That ball could have stayed in or gone out, and it stayed in.   I have no regrets.   I did what I could today.   
The season was extremely long.   In the beginning of the year I was top 100 and now I'm top 44.   It's a good result, and I'm finishing the year on a very good tournament here in Paris.  
   
 Q.   At the end when you came out of the court we saw you had a few words with Lionnel about the challenge, I guess.   
BENOIT PAIRE:   Yes, he asked me, Why did you ask for that challenge?   The ball was in my feet.   I don't know where it fell.   I didn't know if it was in or out.   At that level of game the balls go quickly, so that's why I asked for a challenge.   They booed me.   I don't understand why.   People sometimes don't understand tennis at that level if they boo for something like that.  
I just tried it.   I didn't do anything wrong.   I tried to fight as I could.   I was tired, and then I get booed.   But this is the way it is.   This is not what I will remember from this tournament.   I will remember my very good first match, and today's match also, even though it was the toughest one.  
   
 Q.   You are not the first victim of Bercy.   Many other players have been booed here, like Nadal.   
BENOIT PAIRE:   Well, that's the way it is.   If they want to boo, they boo.   They put up with me for the whole match.   It's the kind of thing that happens.   I'm not going to talk about it anymore.   It was a match point.   I tried the challenge and the ball was out.   That's it.  
Now the only thing I want is to go on holidays and have a bit of fun.   The season was extremely tiring.  
   
 Q.   You had a warning that is normally extremely rare.   
BENOIT PAIRE:   Yes, at the end of the first set I went to the toilets with my racquet and I came back without it.   
In fact, the racquet went into the rubbish bin.   I did it in the toilet so that nobody would see me.   I came back and I got a warning.   I didn't know that I could have a warning because I broke a racquet in the toilets.   
Doesn't matter, but I guess very few players had a warning for this reason.  
   
 Q.   It's funny?   
BENOIT PAIRE:   Yes, it's funny.   These things happen.   I won't do it again.   
But now it's time for holidays.   You have to enjoy those moments.   It is very important to start off the next season in good shape.  
   
 Q.   A question about the schedule.   Is it over for you or are you going to play the interclubs' competitions?  
BENOIT PAIRE:   You will see me playing doubles with Stan tomorrow.   It's going to be a nice match.   After I'm going to play the interclubs.   I'm not saying I practiced a lot for that match, but I will try my best.   
Have good holidays.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT