ATP CUP
January 4, 2020
Benoit Paire
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








B. PAIRE/N. Jarry
6-7, 6-3, 6-3
France - 1
Chile - 0
THE MODERATOR: Who has the first question?
Q. Congrats on the win. How were you able to navigate your way through that second set to break him.
BENOIT PAIRE: No, it was not easy. A lot of chances in the first set and for me it was not easy to stay focused in the match because when you have some chances it's not easy. But the good thing is I fight until the end and even if it was a set in breakdown I fight until the end and I won the match. So I'm really happy about my attitude and really happy to win the match for the first points of Team France because it's important to lead and it's important for Gael to lead 1-0 against Chile.
Q. How are you feeling, too, after your great 2019 and starting off 2020? You must be feeling positive so far.
BENOIT PAIRE: I feel good. I didn't practice a lot during the off-season, I had to take some rest because of the Davis Cup and everything. It was a long year. I played a lot of tournaments, so I didn't want to practice too much, just practiced one week before the ATP Cup. And I said, okay, you have time to practice here. I arrived early in Brisbane one week ago. So I feel good, I feel confident and really happy to play. So it was important for me and I think it's important for the French team because we enjoy to play together. We are very happy to be here and, honestly, with the team it's not like a normal team, it's a more fun team. So, yeah, really happy to be here.
Q. What did you think of the atmosphere, having your teammates closer and that kind of stuff?
BENOIT PAIRE: It's nice. I really enjoyed it. I think it's a good competition. I really like it and I really enjoy to play team matches, so it is good. And Gilles Simon as the captain, it's very interesting. He was top-10, so he's still playing. He has a lot of things to say about the opponent, about my game. So it's good. And we did what we wanted to do, so it's very important for us and for me to enjoy just being on the court.
Q. Did you guys exchange a lot of ideas about the match, tips? What were the conversations like between you guys?
BENOIT PAIRE: It's more like what I feel about my game, about the opponent game, about what I think I have to do. But as I said, the most important is what I feel. So if I want to be offensive, be offensive, but he just said, I will let you know what I think to do and I tell you, you take or you don't take. But yes, the good thing with Gilles in this condition are a tennis a player not like captain and player, it's more like player with player, so I enjoy it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT