BOSTON COLLEGE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 3, 2017
Anthony Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Just coming into a fresh experience, what mentality do you take in, what approach?
ANTHONY BROWN: That we have to basically work together to build our offense, and no matter who plays or who is called in to be the starter the first week or any other week, that we know we're comfortable with who's in the game and keeping our offense consistent and keep building off of that.
Q. There was a lot said about you even last year.  A year ago you couldn't step on the field.  How did you manage to carry that because there's expectation building as the year goes on?
ANTHONY BROWN: I didn't really pay attention to much of that.  My parents and other people outside would, but I tried to just stay away from that so it wouldn't take me off track, and trying to just continue and do what I can do to help our offense and our team be successful.
Q. How has the dynamic been with Darius?
ANTHONY BROWN: Me and Darius have a really good relationship.  He helps me out with some things that I need help on, and I help him out on some things -- like we pick each other up all the time.  If he needs to drive the offense, I tell him that.  If I need to drive the offense, he tells me.  We just have a really good relationship to where honestly it really doesn't matter who is playing on the field.  First week, we just know that we have that trust in each other.
Q. Obviously the offense has been looking for somebody to stabilize the quarterback spot.  How do you see yourself as that still young guy but a guy who can kind of be in that spot?
ANTHONY BROWN: We all have to grow up, so to play in this league, you have to be a grown man, and you have to learn how to take on that role.  I'm slowly getting into it.  I don't have the experience, but some day I will.  I'll have to get used to it.  Darius has had his experience, but he also has been in the back, too, and we have to complement each other on what we can do great and what we sometimes fail to do in making the offense a little bit better.
Q. Did you travel, as well?
ANTHONY BROWN: Yes.
Q. What did you gain from that experience?
ANTHONY BROWN: Traveling?
Q. Were you at Tech?
ANTHONY BROWN: Yes.  Traveling last year was an amazing experience.  I got the feel of other teams' atmospheres.  Virginia Tech was a great one.  They were loud.  They were rowdy.  Florida State was a huge stadium.  Some things that I've never seen before, especially on the field, on-site, and it really like -- it kind of got me excited for when I would have to step in.  It was great.  It was a great experience just to be there.
Q. Going into the bowl game you got a lot of reps.  How important was it to learn that system, and how quickly were you able to adapt?  What's it been like?
ANTHONY BROWN: First question, it was kind of a little iffy at first, but I was a little used to it from what I used to run in high school, and I just had to get acclimated to the plays and the tempo and leadership and pushing offense and stuff like that.
But I'm still learning, still pushing, still trying to get better and better at that, at leadership and driving the offense.  But it was a new experience for this kind of school because everybody knows that's the ground and pound, and we're really trying to speed the tempo up, trying to be as fast as we can possibly be, and just keep building and building as a tempo offense.
Q. How important would you say would it be for this team, everybody knows you guys on defense, and you have this sort of reputation for having a different kind of identity.
ANTHONY BROWN: I would say it is very important that we establish a consistent identity on offense because our defense is so good that they're going to put us in the right position to keep -- I would say keep our team going in games.  They put us in great position sometimes or special teams puts us in great positions, and we have to be consistent on a consistent basis.  It is like very valuable that we keep it that way or make it a staple for us.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT