BOSTON COLLEGE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
April 22, 2017
Anthony Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ANTHONY BROWN: Today it was a good experience having the stadium a little packed, going out there with my team, and trying to compete.  It was a little rough, but there will be better days, but we'll get through it.
Q. How are you navigating the quarterback competition?
ANTHONY BROWN: I try to look to him for advice sometimes.  I also ask other people from back at home that have been in the same situation how they would handle this.  As Darius said, try to stay to yourself, try to make yourself better, don't always worry about what he's doing or what somebody else is doing because then it'll cater to like your game.  It'll hinder your game.  I'm just trying to grow up, in a sense, on the field.
Q. There were a couple of misses that just went off the fingertips.  Talk about how much that's a part of what you do.
ANTHONY BROWN: I have to work on my little long -- I have to work on my long throws, accuracy.  I mean, we have these three months to get it better and keep them working and just get the timing right.  By the time camp rolls around, we should all be fine.
Q. Anthony, talk about running the spread offense.
ANTHONY BROWN: In what sense?
Q. It was just using you, the spread with Anthony.
ANTHONY BROWN: The spread offense is very unique.  It gives you a chance to spread a defense out.  You can either have the chance to ground and pound them with your running backs because we have that, we have three great running backs -- well, actually four, Travis, Jon, Rich Wilson, and Davon, and then we have a plethora of receivers out there that can go and get the ball, and they're out there doing their thing.  So the spread offense is like very -- it's very good for us because as they said, we're running a hurry-up offense to where we can tire out a defense.  That's our biggest thing right now, we're trying to get conditioned for that, and we want to just keep it moving and keep it driving basically.
Q. In the bowl game (indiscernible) how much were you able to kind of be a part of (indiscernible) and carry it over into the spring and how has that helped you?
ANTHONY BROWN: During the bowl practices, me and Darius took the majority of the reps, so it was like a back and forth thing.  It was similar to the spring at the time, and it was a lot to take in.  But we're obviously getting better at it.  We're getting more knowledge of what we're doing and how we're supposed to be doing it and why we're doing it.  This spring was another stepping-stone for us, for us to get better and know our stuff, so I expect camp to be a really good one.
Q. How much have you built up confidence in the spring?
ANTHONY BROWN: Well, my confidence has raised to another level since the bowl practices, and I plan on it to continue.  Like it just comes with time, but I'm trying to get it faster, if you understand what I'm saying.
Q. How was the speed of the game for you, seeing it?  It's different than practice.
ANTHONY BROWN: It was a little bit better -- well, a little bit faster than practice.  Not too much of a difference, because in practice, we practice at a very high level, so getting out there in the game style of play, it wasn't much of a difference.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT