BOSTON COLLEGE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 7, 2019
Anthony Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Boston College - 45, Richmond - 13
Q. Anthony, very efficient day, but what was interesting is your three touchdown receptions to a running back and two tight ends. Just talk about working those aspects into the overall game.
ANTHONY BROWN: As I'm pretty sure we talked about it earlier this week, the guys we have in our rooms that can make plays. A.J. has really been working this off-season on his catching ability and showing that side of his game. So that's really big for us right now. And our tight ends have always been a power for our team. So it's really good.
Q. How have you seen him from freshman year when he catches no passes, last year he catches eight, but the injury makes it harder for him to be a weapon out of the backfield until now. How have you seen him develop as a pass catcher?
ANTHONY BROWN: Honestly, he's been working at it every single day. When I say every day, I actually mean every day. So I feel his confidence is just through the roof. He feels like he can catch anything. He's actually asking for passing plays now. It's excellent to see his confidence, and I'm happy for him right now.
Q. You're young. You like to play football. To sandwich a game against a non-major between the one you played last week and the one you have coming up on Friday, is it tricky not looking over your shoulder at all, or is the mentality the same?
ANTHONY BROWN: As you said, being young, sometimes people overlook these games, but it was really an emphasis and a big focus this week to not look past this game into Kansas, and I feel like we did that, but we need to clean some things up.
But we have another big opponent this week. Kansas is no slouch. They have a great coach. They have a very talented running back on offense, and I know that defense is going to come to play. It's a Friday night game. This is everybody's dream.
Everybody is going to be excited for this game. There's going to be thousands of people watching. I feel like they're definitely going to come here looking for a "W."
So we've got to step our game up.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT