BOSTON COLLEGE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 31, 2019
Anthony Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Boston College - 35, Virginia Tech - 28   
 Q.  Anthony, obviously, it's a lot of fun when the offense is moving, A.J. or David are running the ball, but as the quarterback, how much fun is it to hit those long balls?  
ANTHONY BROWN: It's our dream. We always love seeing the ball being caught in advance. So it was a good day today. Still some inconsistencies here and there, missing throws, got complacent a little bit. But overall, it was pretty good.   
 Q.  So you got some new toys out there, man. Zay is real good. What is it like having that kind of weapon? And then you already had Kobay. You guys had like 18 passing plays of 30-plus yards last year, and you had three, maybe four today.  
ANTHONY BROWN: It's always nice adding new cars to the garage. It's really a blessing. The kid is very, very talented. Zay and Kobay did a great job today, but overall, we have a ton of guys that can make plays. We're ready to keep it going for the rest of the season.   
 Q.  (No microphone)?  
ANTHONY BROWN: I would say it's a natural progression right now being here. It's time for me to step up, time for me to be a leader in all areas, aspects of the game, whatever. I'll say we need a leader. We need somebody to step up, and it has to be me. We were missing that for the past two years, and right now I'm just ready to step into that role.   
 Q.  Taking into account everything that happened today, moving forward with the offense, what is the goal for this season? What are you guys trying to focus on the rest of the way out?  
ANTHONY BROWN: I would say not riding the roller coaster. Today we started off great, started off fast, got into the second half, we had, what was it, three straight three and outs? That all comes back to me. It all comes back to making plays and making the easy ones. I would just say becoming more consistent and pushing.   
But we did show great resolve. I would say that. Came back, got a huge first down when we needed it, and we had a huge drive that our O-line and our running backs did wonderful on, and our tight ends and wide receivers were blocking lovely. So I would just say we just need to get better with that.   
 Q.  Anthony, when quarterbacks are making big plays down the field, it's usually an indication they feel real comfortable with their touch. Can you talk about the touch you felt in that first and second quarter tonight and how important that was? And talk about the offensive line.  
ANTHONY BROWN: Well, the offensive line played wonderful today. I love them. I know they're going to improve each and every week, but I would just say it's just being comfortable with the guys. We've worked all summer. We worked all spring. So just having the confidence in my guys that they're going to be open and they're going to make the plays downfield is huge. It's great for me because me having that trust with them is incredible and I don't have to worry about it as much.   
 Q.  Talk about the confidence in your running game now and especially on that 18-yard touchdown run.  
ANTHONY BROWN: I don't know. Kind of have that mental block out of my head now. My coaches did a great job working that out of me. I'm excited.   
 Q.  (No microphone)?  
ANTHONY BROWN: He didn't really make it an emphasis to us because we trust our defense, we trust our players. We believe in each other, and that was the talk before the game. Believe in yourself and believe in your teammates from the left and the right "D," and our defense played a wonderful game today. They had, what, five turnovers? They forced five turnovers. Young, old, whatever you want to call it, they played great.   
I can see them improving each and every week from here on out, and I'm excited to see them play.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT