BOSTON COLLEGE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 7, 2017
Anthony Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Virginia Tech - 23, Boston College - 10
Q. Just talk about that trick play with Jeff, and was that kind of similar to the one you threw to Patrick Towles in the Quick Lane Bowl?
ANTHONY BROWN: A little similar, just opposite sides.  Executed it well.  Jeff ran the fake really well, and then I slipped out, caught the ball and scored.
Q. Anthony, last week you and Coach mentioned that some of the longer throws had to be held back a little bit, this week you started airing it down the field.  How does the shoulder feel and how do you feel about those longer passes?
ANTHONY BROWN: My shoulder feels great.  Longer passes, we need to take shots downfield, and we did.  We were really aggressive with that tonight.  I have to put the ball in a little bit better place, execute it a little bit better.  That's really it.
Q. Anthony, you ran the ball seven times tonight for a career high 51 yards.  Did it really just open spaces, or how was it scrambling the ball tonight?
ANTHONY BROWN: Some of them were called runs.  A couple or a few were scrambles.  Coach Addazio emphasized with me on certain downs, just getting down and getting those positive yards, and today I tried to take advantage of it.
Q. Anthony, can you speak about your decision making tonight, no turnovers, and about how maybe getting into a little better flow when you guys picked up the tempo and were really able to get those passes and get them on the money?
ANTHONY BROWN: No turnovers.  We've been working at these plays all week.  Coach has been helping me with getting into the right plays, getting into the right progressions, and that's -- the decision making really isn't on me, it's on my coach for preparing me so well.  And just really -- you've just got to execute on these plays.
Q. Would one of those plays be after the interception you guys got early in the game, got a receiver open?  Steve kind of mentioned those are the ones if you hit in a game like this that can make all the difference?
ANTHONY BROWN: Yes, yes, it can.  These games, we've played three of them so far, actually four, against really good defenses, top-25 teams, and just being a young quarterback and growing and getting into this game, realized that on every opportunity we can possibly get, we have to execute after the pick, and we ran that play, getting the ball to Tom Sweeney, I probably could have put a little less air under it and put it on him, and we wouldn't be having this conversation right now.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT