BOSTON COLLEGE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 30, 2017
Anthony Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Boston College - 28, Central Michigan - 8   
 Q.  Coach mentioned you were hurt all week.  What's bothering you?  
ANTHONY BROWN: Just a little soreness in my shoulder.  That was really it.   
 Q.  When you're limited like that, just how important was what Jon and AJ did for you with the running game?  
ANTHONY BROWN: It was extremely important.  I had to take advantage of my opportunities when I was given them.  Mike also helped us out, giving us great field position with the special teams, and we kind of took advantage of it today.   
 Q.  How long did it take for you to decide or determine whether you were healthy enough to play?  
ANTHONY BROWN: It was a Thursday thing, Thursday, Friday thing.  And then just felt better, so I just went off that and just tried to play through it.   
 Q.  And so many bodies already kind of displaced or whatever.  How important was it to try to play with the condition the team is in at this point?  
ANTHONY BROWN: Be there for my teammates.  I know they'll back me up.  I had a really strong feeling about today, so we just went with it, and we played really well.   
 Q.  You've been talking about AJ being featured more in the offense, and it's happened gradually over time --  
ANTHONY BROWN: Today from based off of what I've seen, he was keeping his pad level down, running through contact, just kept pushing, and our offensive line did great today, so that also was another key factor in his runs.   
 Q.  Anthony, you took two roughing-the-passer penalties today.  How hard was it to stand in the pocket knowing that you had your shoulder injury and all?  
ANTHONY BROWN: Basically just trusting my offensive line.  Didn't really faze me about the roughing the passers.  It was fine.  It happens.  It's the game.  That was really it.   
 Q.  Now that it's over, and on paper it just was a good match-up for you guys before you've got what's coming up, I know you can't go into a game thinking about that, but now that it's over, how important was it to have a satisfying win with what you've got coming up in the ACC?  
ANTHONY BROWN: It's always important to win your games.  We only have 12 shots.  That was five.  Sixth one is coming up against a really good team, and it really just helps our confidence and keeps us building, and we've just got to get ready to go.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT