BOSTON COLLEGE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 16, 2017
Anthony Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Notre Dame - 49, Boston College - 20   
 Q.  What improvements did you see in your game from last week to this week?  
ANTHONY BROWN: Just finishing plays here and there that I needed to.  There's still a lot of plays that I missed.  I'm just going to have to get on the film and watch that.   
 Q.  Those two touchdown throws to Charlie Callinan, looked like you threaded the needle, got through tight coverage.  What did you see on those plays?  
ANTHONY BROWN: Charlie ran a great route, and he was open, so I threw it to him, and that was it.   
 Q.  Anthony, it seemed like you had a lot of success rolling out, moving the pocket, especially when you were trying to target your tight ends; do you think that's something moving forward that can help you guys move the chains on 3rd downs?  
ANTHONY BROWN: It can definitely help anyone.  Right now we had a couple missed opportunities -- actually I had a couple missed opportunities, one of the very first ones, it was a short on throw, still got to make that play.  But moving forward, yeah, it's a really good tool.   
 Q.  Talk about the run game with Jon and AJ.  How did that help you with your play action passes and getting guys open downfield?  
ANTHONY BROWN: The run game helps a lot for the throw game for anybody.  Establishing a run game pulls defenders down.  It does a lot for receivers to get open.  So that was that, I guess.   
 Q.  How did you feel going into the locker room at the half, just a one-point game?  
ANTHONY BROWN: Felt really well going into the locker room.  We had a mindset that we were going to come out and finish.  Some unfortunate things happened in the third quarter, mid third quarter, and they took the momentum and they kept going with it.   
 Q.  All their chunk plays, how did that affect what you were doing?  
ANTHONY BROWN: It affects the team, period.  A chunk play on offense from us --   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT