ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 5, 2020
Quentin Hillsman
Amaya Finklea-Guity
Gabrielle Cooper
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Syracuse - 67, Virginia - 50.
Q. Coach, got the win early in the season without Elizabeth, now that she is back in the lineup how does that change your game plan?
QUENTIN HILLSMAN: She is a good player. We know that. I don't know how much it changes our scout but we've got to play with great effort and energy. Jeff does a good job with them and they play free and they play in space and they play with great poise and tempo. So we've got to be able to get back on defense, get our defense set and keep them out of the paint. Obviously this is a very good basketball team and they're a top-5 team in the country and they got a good chance to win a National Championship. So we were fortunate to get past that game and be able to play tomorrow.
Q. For both of the players, you had a good run last year, this is your third and fourth years playing in the tournament. Do you feel like you play well here? Comfortable with the court here?
GABRIELLE COOPER: Yeah, I like playing here. I like the environment. I like court. I like the balls. I love playing here. It's a fun time of the season, we can see everybody, you see all the stands, you see all the kids in the stands when they bring the schools out, it's fun to play here.
AMAYA FINKLEA-GUITY: Exactly, the environment is fun here. I do like playing here, too.
Q. Coach, one of the keys tonight turnovers for y'all. I think you forced them into 25 turnovers. What were y'all doing?
QUENTIN HILLSMAN: We controlled tempo with our press mostly, a lot of turnovers were on the back end, cross half court and tried to get them into offense. We had them off balance. They didn't have the ball in their point guard's hands but they attacked when they crossed half court, so they had a hard time get to go their stuff and I thought that was the key, we got the ball in the hands of the people that we wanted to handle it.
Q. It's very obvious that Virginia shooting 6% in the fourth quarter, was that something you did in terms of coaching to go to the next level? Or just Virginia, the pressure eventually wearing them down?
QUENTIN HILLSMAN: I think that when we got up, and we got them to take quick shots and they didn't have a lot of flow or balance as well. Obviously when you're taking shots and you're breaking your offense, a lot of times they're not going to be great shots. I thought they took quick shots when they maybe could have moved the ball a little bit, but I understand when you're fighting a depth of 12, 14 points you try to save possessions so I think they tried to speed the game up by taking quick shots and I thought it played against them tonight.
Q. I want to talk about your size advantage. You had 10 blocked shots. Did you feel that was a factor?
QUENTIN HILLSMAN: Our goal was to take zero block shots. We said we were going to take charges all night, so thanks for telling me that, we should have had zero blocked shots. When you can keep ten shots from getting on the back of the rim obviously that's a big advantage, but our goal was to not let will Bea turn the corner. We wanted to build a wall and stand in front of her and our players did a really good job of both and we kept them in front of us and the 10 blocked shots. At least it wasn't 10 blocked fouls, so I guess I gotta take it.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT