STANFORD UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 23, 2019
Chase Garbers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
(Cal interview)   
Cal - 24, Stanford - 20   
 Q.  Did you have any fun at all?  
CHASE GARBERS: I actually did, shockingly.   
 Q.  What was it like to win the big game?  
CHASE GARBERS: It was awesome. What it means for this team and this Cal community is something special. And after 10 years of not having the Axe we finally got it back.   
 Q.  Can you talk about the winning touchdown run? What happened on that play?  
CHASE GARBERS: I mean, it was designed pass play, turned into a broken play. Found a crease in the defense to make a run and receiver's down field blocking was huge.   
 Q.  What was the name of the play?  
CHASE GARBERS: I don't think I could say that.   
 Q.  It's going to go down in Cal history?  
CHASE GARBERS: It was stick. Put it that way.   
 Q.  When you're crossing the goal line, you see the open field in front of you, what's going through your mind at that point?  
CHASE GARBERS: Honestly, I think I was just excited I had a rushing touchdown. Haven't ran the ball in the end zone for a while. But obviously after that we knew we were up. And they had some time left on the clock. So it wasn't too exciting, but it was overall.   
 Q.  Can you talk about the mentality in the huddle when Stanford hit a field goal to go up by three with 2:39 left, whatever that was, and you're on the field and you have an opportunity to win the game?  
CHASE GARBERS: Really in the huddle we just kept saying we've done this before. Going all the way back to Washington, a game-winning drive. And we do it in practice against our defense all the time.   
And I think Nikko was yelling, let's go make history right here. But I think we just had to go execute.   
 Q.  After the game it was wild with the Axe floating around, what was going on. From your perspective what did you see? What was the first thing you did?  
CHASE GARBERS: I saw a bunch of people rushing the field and a lot of people jumping. I was trying not to get knocked over. But it was awesome to see the Cal fans get up on the field and celebrate with us because it really means a lot to them and us.   
 Q.  Talk about the job that Nikko did today?  
CHASE GARBERS: Nikko did a great job. He was missing a couple of games due to injury, but he played one of his best games I've ever seen him play today. And awesome to have a wideout like him who is so versatile.   
 Q.  What did you see on the (indiscernible) sideline? (Indiscernible)?  
CHASE GARBERS: We knew we were getting man coverage on the outside all game, and the opportunity was there to take a shot downfield. And I just had to put it in Tre's vicinity. I knew he was going to come down with it.   
 Q.  When did you know you were going to play and how excited were you to be healthy enough to do it?  
CHASE GARBERS: I knew later this week. And I mean obviously playing against Stanford is huge, being a Cal Bear. So, obviously I was very excited to get back here again with the guys.   
 Q.  Was there any doubt, say, Monday and Tuesday that you would be ready?  
CHASE GARBERS: A little bit. You never really know with injuries.   
 Q.  How familiar are you with the Big Game history? How much (indiscernible)?  
CHASE GARBERS: A lot more familiar as of last night when Coach Wilcox told a little background story on it. But ever since I've got here it's always been a huge tradition.   
 Q.  What did he tell you guys last night?  
CHASE GARBERS: Just the history of the Axe, how it was an actual Axe. And rally committees were stealing it back and forth from each other and they finally decided to make it the trophy of the game.   
 Q.  Second straight year you guys are bowl eligible. What does that mean to you?  
CHASE GARBERS: Personally I mean it's awesome. I think as a team it's huge because that was one of our goals in the beginning of the year, to be bowl eligible. And to get that sixth win against Stanford is also pretty big. Last year it was against SC, another big rival, so it's awesome.   
 Q.  How big is it to you, you know what the rivalry means, but do you feel it kind of helps bring the rivalry back into prominence when you're able to beat Stanford? It's been so long.  
CHASE GARBERS: Yeah, it's been about a decade, yeah, about a decade since we last won. So I think winning this definitely makes a statement in the history of the Big Game and going forward.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT