U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 15, 2018
Jesus Montenegro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Talk about your match.  Braden Thornberry was ranked No. 1 in the World Amateur Golf Ranking.  What did it take today to beat him?  
JESUS MONTENEGRO: I just tried to play my golf, just stick to my game plan, and my mindset was good, so that was the key of the day.  I think after that my game wasn't that good, so I'm just happy to win the match.   
 Q.  Were you nervous at the start, or were you calm?  
JESUS MONTENEGRO: I started well the first few holes where you can be a little bit nervous, but after that, I started to play my game and my plan.  I know it's going to be really hard to beat him, but I just made it.   
 Q.  What's it like coming to the United States to play in your first USGA championship?  
JESUS MONTENEGRO: Well, it's a really important thing for me.  I know that it's my first time here, so I just came here to enjoy it and try to do my best game.  I just came here to do my best game.   
 Q.  You maybe have seen Pebble Beach on TV or you've read about it; what's it like to actually be out there and playing it?  
JESUS MONTENEGRO: Well, it's harder than I think.  It's a really nice place.  I imagined that.  But the course is -- I think it's really fair to make some birdies.  The greens are really good.  But it's really difficult to put the ball really close to the hole.   
 Q.  Do you like the risk and reward element of Pebble Beach where you can take chances on some holes?  
JESUS MONTENEGRO: Yeah, well, there are a couple holes.  I think the front nine you have some short holes that you can take advantage of that, so probably the back nine is a little bit harder than the front nine, so I think you can attack the first nine holes than the last nine.   
 Q.  How much confidence do you have after winning today?  
JESUS MONTENEGRO: Well, I had my confidence 100 percent before I came here.  After this one, I cannot imagine that.  I know I have some matches to play.  I'm going to keep it up.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT