ASAHI RYOKUKEN INTERNATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP
September 23, 2001
Emilee Klein
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








EMILEE KLEIN:  I bogeyed No.  1.  I hit it on the green, but I couldn't get it.  I had to chip it off the green.  Hit a bad chip shot, made bogey.  Then No.  4, I made birdie.  I hit a 6-iron to about three feet.  5, I knocked it on the front of the green and 3-putted, made bogey.  7, I hit a 6-iron to about two feet, made birdie.  9, I knocked a sand wedge to about two feet and spun it off the front of the green and 3-putted, made bogey. 

EMILEE KLEIN:  5, maybe six feet.  9, three feet.  12, I knocked it to about three feet and made birdie.  Hit pitching wedge.  14, I hit an 8-iron to about 15 feet, made birdie.  18, I hit a 9-wood to about six feet and made birdie. 


Q.  I guess you came into the round, hadn't made a bogey, then starting out with one.  Did you take a while to kind of cover?  Seems like on the Back  9, you kind of got something going. 

EMILEE KLEIN:  Well, I felt like I was a little flat on the Front  9.  You know, having yesterday off didn't help because you kind of lose that momentum.  I've been playing so well.  Next thing you know you're sitting around in your hotel room for, you know, all day long.  But, you know, the Back  9 I finally started really trying to charge a little bit.  I actually lipped out on 15, 16 and 17 from about 10, 12 feet.  So, I mean, I could have been a lot lower than I was today.  I missed a three-foot birdie putt on No.  2 today.  You know, I'm happy with the way I played.  I played solid and I did the best I could.  That's all I can ask for. 

Q.  I'm guessing at some of the points with your bogeys, you maybe saw some of the scores at 11 or 10.  Did you think if you charged, maybe the field might come back to you a little bit?

EMILEE KLEIN:  I wasn't worried about what they were doing.  I was playing my own game.  You know, I can't worry about what they're doing.  I can't hope for someone to make a bad shot or worry if they're going to make a good shot.  I'm playing my own game. 

Q.  I checked the score board.  I believe of all the players on the leaderboard, you're the only one who had birdies on the last six holes.  Can you talk about how tough those holes were, maybe some of the tension for players that have not won before?

EMILEE KLEIN:  I think they're finishing holes.  I think the Back  9 is a very difficult 9.  You have a lot of tough shots, a few longer shots, it plays a little bit longer than the Front  9.  I don't know how they felt, so it's kind of hard for me to tell what was in their mind.  I know I was feeling very comfortable down the Back  9 and hit a lot of good shots.  You know, it is difficult.  I knew that anything was possible out there.  You can make birdies on the holes, but you can also have trouble. 

Q.  When you made your birdie on 18, did you think that you had a chance to get in a playoff or even possibly win the tournament outright at that point?

EMILEE KLEIN:  Yeah, I did.  I mean, I was out there.  I hit a few balls just to keep myself loose just in case.  I mean, you never know.  I've been in the position before where I've hit it 15 feet and 3-putted to go into a playoff.  Anything's possible in this game.  But I also knew that the girls who were out there are good players.  All I could do was put some pressure on them, and that's what I did.

Q.  A lot of players didn't have yesterday off, but you did.  You were able to birdie those last six holes.  Do you think the length of the course hurt any of the other players and helped you?

EMILEE KLEIN:  I don't think so.  Like I said, I think having yesterday off actually hurt my Front  9.  You know, I prefer to play every day.  I don't think the length of the course really affected anybody.  It's just that, you know, the Back  9 is a little bit longer, so there aren't as many birdie holes, but there's still plenty of holes you can still make birdie on. 

Q.  Can you just talk about, in the case of Tina Fischer winning for the first time, hers is an extraordinary situation, non-exempt, what that's going to mean to her in terms of confidence, that sort of thing?

EMILEE KLEIN:  Again, I don't know how she feels.  I mean, as I am, you know, winning is a big confidence booster.  I'm sure she'll feel great about it.  But that's something you're going to need to ask her. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT