ASAHI RYOKUKEN INTERNATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP
September 21, 2001
Emilee Klein
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  If you could just talk about, it was kind of a strange day out there.  You played a hole, I think, and then you wait around all morning, you play a hole and then you find out that only half the field is playing and that you don't have to play on Saturday.  And then to shoot around like you did and take the lead.  What was it like out there all day?

EMILEE KLEIN:  Well, I don't exactly have the lead.  Let's get this straight.  I have the lead right now, but half the field hasn't played.  So basically the way I look at it is I got a shot at them today, they got a shot at me tomorrow.  It was a strange day. It was a tough decision for our officials and it was strange, but it was one of those things that had to be done considering everything that came up with the rain yesterday and the fog.  It was a tough day.  It was a long day, I've been at the golf course from 6 o'clock this morning with the exception of a hour.  But you just take what you can and go out there and play as hard as you can.  That's all you can do.

Q.  You said with the exception of a hour.  What did you do during that hour?

EMILEE KLEIN:  I had to go take my dog for a walk.  I didn't think it was fair to leave her all day.

Q.  The one hole you played was it nine or 18 this morning?

EMILEE KLEIN:  I played two holes, I played 8 and 9.

Q.  And then how did you do on those?

EMILEE KLEIN:  I parred them.  I haven't made a bogey yet.  I've just been playing solid, steady golf.

Q.  Did you think that --  this course is difficult --  that you could get this far without a bogey or anybody could?

EMILEE KLEIN:  I'm playing really solid right now, so I really didn't even come close to making a bogey, to be quite honest.  I hit a lot of greens.  I think I missed three greens today and one yesterday.  It's a tough course, but if you use your head and you hit it in the right places.  And I've been lucky, I've hit it in the right places almost all the time.  The only times I haven't, I had long putts and I hit good putts.  And I'm trying to play solid and steady and that's what I plan to do on Sunday.

Q.  Normally being where you are, as you said, at least at the top of the leaderboard as far as we know and going to a final round, how is Sunday going to be different from a normal tournament where you would know, okay, here is where I stand going into the tournament, I'm in the lead or I'm one shot out or I've got a two shot edge on the field or whatever.  How will that be different between now and then for mentally preparing for that final round?

EMILEE KLEIN:  I don't think it will be any different.  I don't really expect to be in the lead come Sunday, because there are a bunch of girls who are at 5 who will get good fresh greens tomorrow, will play earlier than we did.  They have two morning rounds, which is a pretty big advantage.  But the thing is that I just feel if I could get myself in there and I could have a good day on Sunday maybe I can prove that the advantage doesn't really mean anything.  Most of the time when you play a 54 hole event the person who wins is usually someone who plays morning first round.  So, but anyway I talk too much.

Q.  Go over your scorecard.

EMILEE KLEIN:  I birdied one.  I hit, I don't remember what I hit at this point, I'm sorry.  I made about a 10-footer.  I birdied 6, 12 and 15.  I'm sorry, it's too late I can't remember what I hit.  I can't even remember which hole it was.

Q.  What are you going to do tomorrow?

EMILEE KLEIN:  I'm going to practice and relax and just  try to be fresh for Sunday.

Q.  Were you one of the players hitting the balls this morning at 6 a.m. with the lights and into the fog?

EMILEE KLEIN:  I was.

Q.  How many people were out there?

EMILEE KLEIN:  There were quite a few.  I couldn't tell you exactly how many.  Meg, were you out there?  Well you got two right here.

Q.  How far could you see the ball?  Could you tell?

EMILEE KLEIN:  You couldn't see the ball.  You couldn't see the ball.

Q.  When Sherri was in here she was talking about she's not having a very good year and that this was a nice boost for her and that sort of thing.  You're having a good year, are you pretty confident, assuming that you're not way back in the pack, do you have confidence in your ability to go finish it off on Sunday?

EMILEE KLEIN:  Yeah, I do.  I've been playing great golf. If I just keep playing solid and I get a few birdies to go in, yeah, I feel really good.  I've had a lot of confidence all year.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT