ROLAND GARROS
May 29, 2017
Richel Hogenkamp
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








R. HOGENKAMP/J. Jankovic
6-2, 7-5
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. Congratulations.
RICHEL HOGENKAMP: Thank you.
Q. Just what was the key to this win for you today?
RICHEL HOGENKAMP: Well, I think the key was, I mean, I clearly know that she has a much better backhand.  So for me it was a pretty easy task to try and break down the forehand.  So that was the plan from the beginning, starting a lot to serve to her forehand and in the rally try, if I get a tough ball, try to neutralize it and play to the forehand.
So I think that was the key, and I was serving pretty well today.  I think that was also pretty important.
Q. How big is this win when you look at your wins you've had in your career?  Where does this one rank for you?
RICHEL HOGENKAMP: I think this is one of the most important ones for me.  I've been playing good lately.  And to be able to continue it in a Grand Slam and be able to win matches in the main draw, it's very important for me.  So that shows me that I'm on the right track.
Q. Have you seen the recent comments by Margaret Court that have gotten some attention and controversy, and what your thoughts are on those and the talk about change in the arena name and things like that.
RICHEL HOGENKAMP: I think it's -- I mean, for her, obviously, she has all the right to think her own way, everybody has.
But for me to be in this kind of position, I don't think you should be that outspoken.  And for me personally, I have a girlfriend myself.  So for me, obviously, I don't agree with what she's saying.
So I think it would be a good thing to see if Australian Open can maybe change the name of the stadium, because I think if you're in that kind of position, maybe some players they don't feel so comfortable playing in a stadium named after Margaret Court.
Q. Are you optimistic that can happen?
RICHEL HOGENKAMP: I've seen the recent comments from certain players, and I think she doesn't have such a good point where she is now, because I see that many players comment against her.  So, I mean, if many players stand behind it, I think maybe something can change.  Who knows.
Q. Has this been a big topic of conversation among players?
RICHEL HOGENKAMP: No.  I just read something about it on social media.  I haven't heard and players talk about it, really chatter.  I'm sure it happens, but I haven't heard about it yet.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT