U.S. MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 14, 2016
Scott Harvey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How crazy is it to be in the semifinals, considering where you thought you've been all week?
SCOTT HARVEY: Yeah, well, you know, again, both of us played poorly on the front nine.  He just gave me more holes than I gave him.  The card shows it; it's just a bunch of bogeys for both of us.  Then we both steadied out or I steadied out for a while and took him a while.  Then he got up ahead, and the card shows a few birdies, but they were conceded birdies.  So, again, I know I keep saying it, but it's a little bit of smoke and mirrors again, but I'll take the win.
Q. How about that.  You won five of seven holes there in the middle.
SCOTT HARVEY: Starting at --
Q. 5 and working through 11.
SCOTT HARVEY: I'm trying to think back to 5.
Q. The one for par.
SCOTT HARVEY: Yeah, par-3, yeah, again, so he gave me that one.  We both bogeyed the next hole, and then he had a 10-foot bogey putt, or he bogeyed the next hole and I made a really good par there, and he bogeyed the next hole.
Q. You must have hit a good shot into 9 though?
SCOTT HARVEY: Yeah, I had it 35 feet down at the bottom of the slope.
Q. But to get on that green from where you were?
SCOTT HARVEY: Yeah, yeah, that's a tough hole for sure.
Q. What did you hit there?
SCOTT HARVEY: I hit a 4-iron, landed just short of the green and kind of on the green.  But, again I know he didn't play how he wanted to, and I'm just fortunate to be on top again.
Q. Birdied 11 again, you seemed to like that hole, the par-5.
SCOTT HARVEY: Yeah, that was another conceded birdie.  He just missed the green left just barely and had to hit kind of a flop shot, but didn't quite make the green and I didn't have to putt.  Probably had about 10 feet.
Q. What did you hit in there again?
SCOTT HARVEY: I had a 56 ° sand wedge.
Q. 90-yard range again?
SCOTT HARVEY: 102.
Q. Here we are again, Pennsylvania, your favorite state after you won here two years ago.  Is there some kind of mojo going on?
SCOTT HARVEY: I don't know.  I don't know.  I'd like to think so, but I don't know.  We'll find out in a couple matches I hope.
Q. Still though, you've talked about how you thought you were leaving the other day.  You've also talked about that things aren't quite right, but something has to be strong mentally with you to keep plugging through.
SCOTT HARVEY: Yeah, that's always been the strongest part of my game ever since I've been playing.  I've always been mentally tough and fought my way around the golf course properly.  My dad was like that.  That was just how I learned how to play, the brain first and the game second.  If you play your game and manage your game the rest of it just kind of takes care of itself.
Nothing I can do about him.  Nothing I can do about anybody else.  If I'm feeling frisky, I might hit a certain shot that I wouldn't hit otherwise.  But, yeah, I think my way around pretty well.
Q. Yesterday you talked about how the swing possibly was getting a little smoother.  Did it stay that way this morning?
SCOTT HARVEY: Not starting out, good Lord.  It was bad starting out early.  As the day went on, it definitely got to feeling better.  So hopefully it keeps trending that way.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT