U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2016
Scott Harvey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Long day.
SCOTT HARVEY: Yeah.
Q. It seemed like maybe a little fatigue on the back nine?
SCOTT HARVEY: Yeah.  Well, fatigue even from the get-go honestly.  The ball-striking was about as bad -- I don't want to say it was as bad as could be, but it was pretty close.  And then after the rain delay, after I came back out, I was okay for a couple holes, and then it's like it just caught right back up to me.  Hitting 9-irons -- I mean, I wasn't even close.  Like on 16 or whatever, that's just as bad as it could possibly be, and I don't ever do that.
Q. He said it was a key stroke where he put the birdie on top of yours on 15 that kept him 1-up.  Do you feel like --
SCOTT HARVEY: Well, he made it first, so I thought it was key for me to keep from going 2-down, and then to hit it from the middle of the fairway, like I said, 20 yards short and 20 yards right with a 9-iron, that's just something that's completely out of character, or uncharacteristic I should say.  I don't really know.  I guess it's because I'm tired.  I don't really know what else to say.  But take nothing away from him.  He's a great player and a great young man.  He's medalist; he's obviously playing well.  I don't think he played good today, either, honestly, but if he hits it a little bit sharper, I think he's got a chance to go deep in the tournament.
Q. It was kind of an odd match where it went back and forth but it didn't feel like anybody did anything until late in the match?
SCOTT HARVEY: Yeah, it was definitely -- I don't think either one of us were playing all that well.
Q. Going back through the whole day now, to get through the playoff like that and play four hours in a playoff and then you've got to come back two hours later, does that tax you mentally?
SCOTT HARVEY: Well, yeah.  I mean, mentally, no.  I'm not worried about the mental aspect of things.  But physically for me, getting up at 5:30, getting ready, doing the full warm-up, and you don't know if you're going to play one hole -- it ended up being seven holes or something.  I don't know, you play a hole, then wait an hour, play a hole, wait an hour.  It was pretty crazy.  And then we got done, and thankful to get through, very fortunate, and then get done and sit around for two hours and then play a little bit and then go sit again for two hours.  It's just the longest -- one of the longest days on the golf course I've ever had.  But you know what, there's a lot worse places to be.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT