U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 11, 2020
Scott Harvey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. A little fountain of youth this week?
 SCOTT HARVEY:   I don't know, man.  I just came out and honestly hadn't played any golf at all.  Just started practicing a little bit leading up to it, and each day kind of felt a little bit better, and today some putts went in.  Wouldn't that be cool if it kept happening?  But yeah, I had a great day when I needed one.
 Q. When is the last competitive round you played before this week?
 SCOTT HARVEY:   The Mid-Am.
 Q. Last year?
 SCOTT HARVEY:   Yeah.  I didn't know what the hell was going to happen.  I came out here and had no expectations, and honestly just had no idea how I was going to react to just being -- but I guess golf is golf, right?  And I've got some good vibes around this place.  Just kind of kept feeding off those memories.
 Q. Obviously you played two different courses, but you came here last year and won.  Did you get a little magic when you stepped on the property?
 SCOTT HARVEY:   I don't know.  Certainly some good feelings for sure, but yeah, two totally different courses, so all that, quote-unquote, experience doesn't really do anything.  But yeah, this style of golf and the weather and everything is very similar, and I enjoy that.  Yeah, this place is awesome.  I'm very happy to keep going.
 Q. Can a mid-am win on this type of golf course?
 SCOTT HARVEY:   Yeah.
 Q. Is this the type of course where we could see somebody --
 SCOTT HARVEY:   I a hundred percent think they can, yes.
 Q. Why do you think that is?
 SCOTT HARVEY:   Just because you've got to play different shots, trajectories.  You might hit 8-iron from 110 yards, not a full one but just kind of flight it, and that kind of stuff I've done for a long time at different times.  I'm not saying -- obviously the kids are unbelievable, I mean, without a doubt.  But all I'm saying is I've done that as much as they have.  Not just me but mid-ams.
 Q. I believe you were 6-under through 10 today?
 SCOTT HARVEY:   I was 6-under through 10.  I was thinking, I'm just going to make every damn thing.  I don't know what's going to happen.  But it cooled off, which was fine.  Honestly, I would have been happy with even par, like thrilled with even par, because this course is hard.
 Q. Do you think maybe no expectations this week could have helped you?
 SCOTT HARVEY:   A hundred percent.  A hundred percent.  I even booked my flight -- I was going home tomorrow morning and would have been happy to go see my family.  But a hundred percent, no expectations, no pressure.  Honestly just not even really supposed to be here.  I ran out of exemptions and then this whole COVID thing came, an all-exempt field and I fell in the category --
 Q. Actually you fell in two, I think.
 SCOTT HARVEY:   Oh, I got in on the ranking thing?
 Q. You're at least in the 25 and over you would have been.
 SCOTT HARVEY:   Well anyway, so I'm -- yeah, whatever.  I'm thrilled.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT