U.S. AMATEUR FOUR-BALL CHAMPIONSHIP
May 27, 2019
Scott Harvey
Todd Mitchell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So let's start with 14, because that's a key hole.  And you pulled the driver on the tee?
TODD MITCHELL: We both ended up in the green.  We got to see some guys hit in front of us because there was a little backup, and then I hit a really good drive, and I got the right kick, and you can't see it from the tee.  But got up there, and it was, you know, eight or ten feet away and had to make it.  And it was one of those -- one of the first putts that went in for us.
Q. What kind of a putt was it?  Was it straight or --
TODD MITCHELL: No, it broke probably, oh, a good six inches or so.  So that was probably the -- one of the best two or three putts I hit all day.
Q. Scott, did you think that was a defining moment in the match to take the 2 up lead there?
SCOTT HARVEY: Yeah, well, you know, 1 up is not real comfortable, right?  2 up, you can make a mistake and still have a little breathing room.  2 feels a lot better than 1.  I think everybody knows that.
TODD MITCHELL: Especially with two par 5s coming up, and the way that you hit the ball.  Oh, man.
Q. 10, you had a birdie too, gave you your first lead.  How did that happen?
TODD MITCHELL: Hit 4 iron into about 18 to 20 feet, and rolled it in, and --
SCOTT HARVEY: Perfect shot.  Just perfect shot.
TODD MITCHELL: You know that you can't miss right.
SCOTT HARVEY: He's being humble.  I'll tell you.  Hit a perfect 4 iron about 15 feet and then hit a perfect putt that went right in the dadgum center.
It was excellent, and it was a huge moment.  To me, that was the biggest putt.  We just won 8 -- that gave us 8, you know, with a bogey, and then going to 10, really difficult hole.  I don't know what was the hardest hole on the course all week, but it's got to be 10 or 11, I'm guessing.
TODD MITCHELL: 10, 11, 12.
SCOTT HARVEY: Whatever.  The point is that was the key putt, and it was a huge putt, and it was perfect.  Absolutely perfect.
Q. Todd, it seemed like it was hard to get control of the match early on.  Does all your experiences in this and all the other USGA events you've played in help you get through that?
TODD MITCHELL: I mean, I think you just have to stay patient.  We know that even though the start of the match didn't go, you know, in our favor, we hit a lot of good putts.  We just couldn't get anything to go in.  It was kind of like yesterday.  We hit a lot of good putts but just couldn't make anything.  Then as the match kind of wore on, you know, we had more looks at it, and, you know, chances are at some point in time, they're going to go in.
Q. Scott, were you conscious that the team you played fired a 62 in stroke play?  So I mean --
SCOTT HARVEY: No.  Oh, yeah, we were.  Yeah, we were.  Yeah, you know, they played -- that was on the other course, right?  I did see that, and then I saw that they shot 1 over the next day.  That's golf, right?  But to me -- we talked about it.  To me, whatever they do on the other course is completely irrelevant now.  They're good players, nice guys.  Like he said, you just play the game and see what happens.  I mean, and we came out on top today, thank God.
TODD MITCHELL: We're not ready to go home yet.
SCOTT HARVEY: No, we're not here to -- we've been in this exact position too many times.  I'm interested in staying as long as I can.
Q. Todd, obviously, you want to hoist a trophy.  What's it going take to get there?
TODD MITCHELL: We're going to have to do a lot of the right things at the right times.  The golf course is such that it definitely rewards good shots.  If you hit a good shot on the wrong side, you might have 50 feet or something like that.
But, you know, we're going to have -- we have a really good game plan.  Our caddies are local guys here, and they've been excellent so far, and they kind of point us in the right direction.  You want to hit it here.  Here's where the pin is, and it's going to do this.  They're never wrong.
But we have to also accept that, you know, at some point in time, we're going to have to dig down and, you know, make five or six birdies out of nine holes and come out and do it because that's what it's going to take to win.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT