U.S. MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 15, 2016
Scott Harvey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. All right.  Obviously there is a lot going through your head right now.
SCOTT HARVEY: I'm fine.  I mean, I've been here before and I've had some tough losses.  I've had some phenomenal wins.  It's fine.  I mean, it's one thing to completely give it away, and it's another to get beat like that.  He just made some incredible birdies coming in.  Again, nothing I can do about it.
Q. So you get off to a hot start in the middle portions of the first 18.  How were you playing throughout that first half of play?
SCOTT HARVEY: I was actually playing okay.  You know, he was struggling big-time, and it was more that than anything else.  I just was trying to hit the fairways and greens, fairways and greens, and he was kind of handing me stuff here and there.  Then we came back out and this afternoon we were both playing a little bit better.  Then towards the end, I mean, good Lord, the birdies he made coming in are incredible.
Q. Can you talk me through the last five holes or so?
SCOTT HARVEY: Yeah, I think I was 4-up with six to go.  And my mentality was just to par, fairway, green, if I made a birdie, that's fine, but don't give anything away.  And 16 was the first bogey I made to that point.  But I can't play that hole.  If I hit a good shot it's bad.  If I hit a bad shot it's bad, so I don't know what to say.
And he birdied 14 and 15 and 17, and he's going to make it on 18, and he birdies here.  I mean, it was crazy.  It's just what are you going to do?
Q. You've had some history with him before.  You've had a couple battles with him in playoffs and some sort.  Just talk to me about your relationship with him that you've built in the last couple weeks or last couple months?
SCOTT HARVEY: Yeah, we became friends back in the early summer.  He's a great guy.  He's kind of new on the scene, 25 years old, obviously.  So he's going to be around a while.  I don't know if he's planning on turning pro or not.  He's fresh out of college, so I don't know what his thoughts are.  But he's got a lot of game, and hat's off to him.
Q. Were you feeling okay in the last couple holes?  You know, 16 you pushed it right, and you said you have never played it well.
SCOTT HARVEY: I have yet to hit the green.
Q. But you were still feeling okay on 17, 18 coming into the playoffs here?
SCOTT HARVEY: Yeah, I felt great.  Compared to two years ago I was completely worked up and my heart was jumping out of my chest.  I felt fine.  Two years ago I would have never stepped up on 18 and hit the fairway.  Never, I would have never done that.  It's a difficult tee shot, you've got to hit it really straight.  It's a blind shot.  I would have never done it.
I hit a great shot.  I had a bad 7-iron, but I was trying to take something off of it, and that's kind of my miss when I try to take something off of it.  So, I don't know.  Just whatever.  But he's in there five feet and that's a gimme to him right now.  Hit a good shot, hit a good putt, just overread it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT