U.S. MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 14, 2016
Scott Harvey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Well, let's talk about getting to the championship match again?
SCOTT HARVEY: Yeah, it's pretty exciting.  It's what you come here for, and the prize is worth it.  I don't know.  I'm excited about the opportunity again.  Got a taste of it before, and it just makes you want it even more.
Q. You and Stewart have played some golf before this year.  What were those matches like?  Even though they weren't matches, what was that play like?
SCOTT HARVEY: Yeah, essentially they were a playoff and another playoff for match play.  I ended up getting the best of them on both of those.  So I know he's got a little fire under his belly for me.  He's got it out for me, and I understand it.  This is one that I would trade both of those for.  So I want it bad, and I'm sure he does too.
Q. Let's talk about the decision on 18 from the right rough to play to the left of the green because that probably put you in a good position there, even though both players bogeyed the hole?
SCOTT HARVEY: He looked like he hit a great shot from the fairway.  I mean, it looked great, and it just came up short.  So I don't know if he misjudged the wind or whatever.  But I had the worst lie I'd had all week in the rough.  And I just put it up there to the left and carried my pitch shot a little bit too far, read the putt perfectly to win the match there and just left it short.  I don't want to use the word I want to use, but like a whatever.
Q. You've played 9 pretty well all week and you did again in the extra hole.
SCOTT HARVEY: Yeah, and I don't understand it because this is one of the hardest holes.  It's 244 yards to an impossible pin.  I three-putted earlier, but I still had a great shot in there.  It's a difficult hole, demanding hole.  You can't miss it right because you've got bunkers, and if you're above the hole, you miss it left and you're in the water.  You better hit a good shot, and I've been able to do that so far.
Q. You were saying earlier in the week it was kind of smoke and mirrors.  You weren't necessarily playing that well.  It seemed like you found your rhythm.
SCOTT HARVEY: It's getting better, no question about it.  I'm driving the ball better, hitting my irons better.  At the beginning of the week, I was hitting pitching wedges 20 yards left of the my target and everything else.  So it's getting better.  It's getting better.  It's not, again, it's not exactly where I want it, but in golf, it might wake up tomorrow and be there.
Q. I just wanted to follow up on the question about playing two different courses.  In some ways is that kind of good to get a fresh look at some other course after five rounds here, six rounds here?
SCOTT HARVEY: I haven't done it yet, but I like the idea of it.  Yeah, we've been playing this course and wearing it out, so you might as well go across the street and have fun.  It gives you, like you said, a different look.  I like it because if this course fits one player's game better than the other one for a particular reason, maybe it can make for a pretty dramatic final, I think, and playing two different type golf courses.  One's easy off the tee and one's hard off the tee.  Well, they're both hard to putt.  But, yeah, you get what I'm saying.
Q. The putt you made for par on 10, about 32 feet, and then the next hole you birdie and you're in control.  But what derailed you a little bit?  Missing the short putt at 12 or hitting the tee shot at 13?
SCOTT HARVEY: Hitting the tee shot at 13 was terrible.  I've been driving it perfect on that hole all week.  But I think for me, I just feel like I ran out of a little bit of energy and just totally lost my legs and quit on it and snapped it over there.
Even a 4-iron on 14 did the same thing.  It was awful.  I just tried to dig deep and try to survive, which has kind of been the theme of the week.
Q. And then he makes the par putt at 17 and you have to make one on top.  How big was that?
SCOTT HARVEY: It was really big.  It's not an easy putt.  It was like 5-feet and broke.  Speedwise I could have made it break as much as I wanted.  I could have made a foot of break and tapped it, but he's already in the hole.  It's match play, so it's kind of do or die at that point.  I just played left edge and knocked it back out of the hole.
Q. Who has the advantage tomorrow?  You have all this experience and Stewart's kind of new to the Mid-Am game?
SCOTT HARVEY: He's young and in shape though.  What is he?  26, 25?  Yeah, 25.  He's probably the youngest person in the field.  I know he works out and plays golf all the time.  Fresh out of USC, I believe.  But we're friends, and a nice guy.  We were going to go out to dinner last night but I was already in bed (laughing).
But, anyway, I wouldn't say that anybody's got -- I definitely have the experience, but he's got the young cockiness and in shape.  Again, he's got it out for me, I know.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT