PLAYSTATION FIESTA BOWL: OHIO STATE VS CLEMSON
December 28, 2016
Wayne Gallman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








WAYNE GALLMAN: But it's all about us coming out to practice and making sure it's a great practice and everybody's doing what they need to do.  And I think we give Coach Swinney a sort of calmness.  But we can't try to lax, just gotta keep on stepping forward.
Q. From what you've seen in your preparation, how does the Ohio State defense compare to any of the other defenses you've played so far this year?
WAYNE GALLMAN: I'd say the closest defense they compare to is probably Pittsburgh, to me.  Basically just from what they present from the type of defense they play, four down and two backers in the box, and they really rely on their secondary just to make big plays.
Q. What's your take on guys sitting out of their respective bowl games to get ready for the combine?
WAYNE GALLMAN: I personally wouldn't do it.  I would love to, you know, just be with my team for the last couple of games.  Just even to play with them knowing that I won't be with them probably later on.
I wouldn't have done it, but people have their thoughts on what they need to do.  And I can't make that decision for them.
Q. You guys are big at being all in, in every single post, how do you think that Coach Swinney would react to a player sitting out?
WAYNE GALLMAN: He wouldn't say anything to them, probably.  He probably would take him to the room, have some one-on-one talk.  But I don't think he would like it at all.
Q. Go over the routine you guys had last year coming to the championship game here and the preparation this time, is it the same or is it a different kind of --
WAYNE GALLMAN: Well, coming here for the National Championship, it was kind of quick.  Now that we have more time, the coaches have more time to really flex the schedule and different things that we can do as far as practice and things we can do outside of it.
So I think we have a little bit more time to prepare, of course.  National Championship, it was really quick.  Every day was business-like.  But now we have a little bit more time to relax.
Q. Is there a little bit more -- is there more of a chip on your shoulder with something to prove or putting all of that behind you from last year, starting fresh?
WAYNE GALLMAN: Pretty much putting it all behind, because we can't play Alabama here again, of course.  You know, we still want to win in this stadium, but the biggest thing is Ohio State and what we have to bring to them.
Q. How important is it -- you guys talk about finishing all the time, finishing the season where you want to be, but also finishing your career where you want to be?
WAYNE GALLMAN: I think it's really important.  Not only to my team but to myself as well, because I want to play my best ball my last couple of games.  I don't want any doubt left that I wasn't the best running back to come through Clemson.
Q. You've seen other Clemson guys kind of elevate their draft status with how they did in the bowl game, in the College Football Playoff.  You've seen others maybe going the other way.  How important is it for you to have your best two games (indiscernible)?
WAYNE GALLMAN: I think it's important just to help my team win.  And from a personal standpoint, to help the team win through what I can do.  So all that draft stuff, it will come.  But I'm just focused on winning against Ohio State.
Q. A lot of the media around here are intimating that you guys are a throwing team.  The running back (indiscernible).  Does that get to you a little bit about being a throwing team?
WAYNE GALLMAN: Yeah, but I think over the last three years that's why I've had a chip on my shoulder, and I've done things with this offense that not a lot of people can do.
Q. In this game, how do you want to establish things for you?
WAYNE GALLMAN: To make plays and hopefully everyone will see what I can do.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT