COLLEGE FOOTBALL PLAYOFF SEMIFINAL AT THE CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: CLEMSON VS OKLAHOMA
December 29, 2015
Wayne Gallman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk about the running game and how important that's been for you guys this year.  Talk about the development of it and how it's turned into this powerful part of your offense this year.
WAYNE GALLMAN: I'd say the whole development started with the offensive line and the work that they put in over the summer and during the season.  It's that mindset that really set the ground game.
Q. And what about the record they have right now; you have a chance to set that school record, all-time, just your place amongst Clemson running backs?
WAYNE GALLMAN: Man, that's special for me, man.  As we're getting closer to it, it means a whole lot more to me because at first I didn't even know I was that close, so now, just seeing how close I am, I'm glad to be one of those names.
Q. How are you handling all this?  Obviously when you see the scale of how big this is, what's this like for you?
WAYNE GALLMAN: Feels like I'm out with my family at a beach resort.  You've really got to take in times like this because you really don't get times like this.  That's the fun part about it is having this experience with all my friends, my teammates.  I'm glad we got a chance to do it.
Q. The Oklahoma defense, I guess what's the key to being able to set the tone and run the football early on them?
WAYNE GALLMAN: To be able to do anything against them, we've got to have the drive, we've got to come to play with a chip on our shoulder and just be ready to play.
Q. What do you think about those guys compared to a year ago?
WAYNE GALLMAN: I would say they're faster, a good team, got a good mindset.  They're in the Final Four for a reason.
Q. Any of the guys on the O-line that you're closest to, just the way the camaraderie has developed with those guys?
WAYNE GALLMAN: I'd say everybody on the team has camaraderie.  That's a big credit to what Clemson offers, because it's just a family feel.
Q. I know there have been a lot of undefeated teams in college football, but nobody has ever gone 15-0 and y'all are two games away from doing that.  Is that something you even discuss or does it get back to what Dabo is talking about where the next game is the biggest game?
WAYNE GALLMAN: Yeah, that's pretty much what Coach Swinney, what he tells us.  We take every game like it's a championship game, and that's the only reason we're here, because of that.  Just also our practice habits, really dialing into the game.
Q. Does anybody at school ever bring that up, though, saying, hey, you guys are a couple wins away from being 15-0?  When they bring that up do you kind of brush it off or is it something you actually think about?
WAYNE GALLMAN: No, man, we try to put all that stuff aside and just focus on the next game no matter who it is.
Q. Which guy on the team ate the most pizza?
WAYNE GALLMAN: Probably Eric Mac Lain or Jordan Leggett.
Q. And how about you?
WAYNE GALLMAN: No, I only had two pieces.
Q. When you look at this offensive line, how many fresh faces, not a ton of experience, and how well they're regarded in the ACC, as somebody who's running behind them looking for holes, why have they been so successful as a unit?
WAYNE GALLMAN: I think we just all feed off each other.  You know, the offensive line has a really tight camaraderie.  They pump each other up pretty much every play, and they also get us up when we're down.  Me and Deshaun when we run the ball, we make a couple physical plays, that also drives them to get that extra push.
Q. 1,300-plus yards for you this year.  What works so well for you?
WAYNE GALLMAN: Really just running and having fun and not really thinking about pretty much anything.
Q. When you look at Deshaun and how he's emerged as a leader, particularly when he was dealing with so many injuries last year, what's made him the lethal quarterback that he's become?
WAYNE GALLMAN: Just being poised and really just taking it all in and that every game is a championship game, and he's done a good job with that, just leading the offense.
Q. When you've watched film on Oklahoma, Eric Striker is one guy that everybody points to as the leader of Oklahoma's defense.  When you look at film can you point out a couple of areas where you feel there's going to be an opportunity to find a crease and take it to the house?
WAYNE GALLMAN: Really, hopefully that play will come.  It's all going to be provided by just those basic hits, just a couple running plays to get the ground game going.  Maybe a crease will come.  I just know their defense; they're very fluid.  They move from side to side really good, and they're a pursuit type of team.  When that big run comes, it's just going to be based off of a hit them and go.
Q. How does OU's defense compare to some of the other teams you've faced this year?
WAYNE GALLMAN: They're pretty good, but we've played some pretty good ones.  Boston College was pretty much the hardest defense I've played all year.  If they can add up to that, we'll see.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT