COLLEGE FOOTBALL PLAYOFF SEMIFINAL AT THE CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: CLEMSON VS OKLAHOMA
December 27, 2015
Wayne Gallman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
WAYNE GALLMAN: Man, they have everything from TVs to memory foam mattresses.  For my mom, my girlfriend, I'll take something simple like a smoothie.   
 Q.  For yourself?  
WAYNE GALLMAN: Yes.  I already got too much stuff.   
 Q.  Was that last year's gift, bowl gift, that you've  
WAYNE GALLMAN: Yeah, and last year    I remember last year we got to go to Best Buy and we had so much money to spend on whatever we wanted to in the store.   
 Q.  What did you get?  
WAYNE GALLMAN: I got some Beats and I got my mom some Beats.   
 Q.  Was this a little strange playing a team that you beat so badly in last year's bowl game, but obviously you're a different team, new quarterback, new system?  Is that a little strange given the circumstances?  
WAYNE GALLMAN: Not really, man.  Having gotten into it the last couple weeks, that thought was in the back of my head, we're going to play Oklahoma again.  That's not really, no, I mean, they're a good team, and we got better from last year, so no.   
 Q.  What stands out about their defense?  
WAYNE GALLMAN: Their whole box.  They're fast, physical.  Their D line is a lot more athletic this year, more fast.  I mean, they've always been strong, but last year their backers, they played real flat, didn't move from side to side really good.  So that's what you're going to have to look forward to.   
 Q.  Tell us a little bit about Dabo Swinney.  As a head coach, how would you describe him?  
WAYNE GALLMAN: I'd describe him as a very laid back coach, down to earth, and someone you can talk to about whatever.  Man, he's a great leader.  This whole season has just been led by him, and we follow everything he does.  Whatever he does, we try to do to our best ability to expect the best not only from him but from ourselves.   
 Q.  Are you involved with him a lot at each individual position or are you closer with your position coaches?  
WAYNE GALLMAN: From time to time.  Like I'm pretty much cool with all the coaches, but I'd say I'm closest with Coach Elliott, Coach Davis that works in the building.  But I talk to Coach Swinney, as well.  I talk to everyone.   
 Q.  What do you see as sort of a key hurdle in this season?  Is it when you held off Notre Dame?  Is that sort of what ignited you guys, or is there a point in the season that you look at as sort of the turning point?  
WAYNE GALLMAN: I'd say the turning point this season, yeah, Notre Dame was one of those games.  But I'd say Miami was really when we got really all in, and the plan really started to just flow together.  We were good on both sides of the ball, so I think that's what we started to get good.   
 Q.  What happened that day to beat a decent team that bad?  
WAYNE GALLMAN: Everything just clicked.  The game plan was right.  Everybody came to play, and we played perfect.   
 Q.  Has it kind of hit you you're in the College Football Playoff, what you guys worked for all summer?  
WAYNE GALLMAN: I kind of expected it out of us.  I told you a couple weeks ago, I expected it, and it just feels really good to be here, and to be able to go downtown and just enjoy it, it feels awesome, just the fact that we're down here.   
 Q.  You weren't here then, but in 2011 it seems like Coach Swinney worked the guys to death basically.  By the time they got here in 2011 a lot of them talked about how worn out they were.  Talk about the time he gives you guys once you get to the bowl site.  Seems like he gives you guys a lot of freedom?  
WAYNE GALLMAN: Yeah, he does, and he actually tells us that he's learned from the past and he knows that we need more rest, more time to relax, and we're just down here to have fun, but we're also down here to beat Oklahoma.  I think he's learned a lot from his experiences, and that's always a good thing.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT