TYCO/ADT CHAMPIONSHIP
November 15, 2001
Marisa Baena
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MARISA BAENA:  It was a very up-and-down round.  It was very interesting because the first two holes I bogeyed the two holes.  I mean, they were terrible.  I thought, "Oh, my gosh, I'm going to shoot a lot today."  But I realized that that was not very smart to think.  It was windy.  Maybe just making pars, that will be good enough.  After that, I actually went 6-under until 17, I 3-putted.  It was very interesting to be able to change my mind.  It's something that I'm trying to work on.  I was very happy to be able to do it. 

Q.  (Inaudible)? 

MARISA BAENA:  I knew that the hole was a par 5.  I reached it on two.  I made a 2-putt for birdie.  Then No.  4, actually made a birdie again.  I made  -- it was about ten feet.  That put me back even again.  It was just like nothing had happened.  To my mind, nothing had happened.  I was even going to four.  I thought that was pretty good for me.  If I had not birdied those two holes, I don't know what would have happened.  I put myself back quick.  It was bogey, bogey, birdie, birdie. 

Q.  Can you talk about where you were when you found out (inaudible)?  Did you have to cancel anything?

MARISA BAENA:  Actually, I knew I was the third alternate after Japan.  I knew Rachel was pulling out.  I knew I was second.  Then I heard Mi Hyun Kim pulled out.  But that Wednesday night, I was invited to play the Pebble Beach ProAm that's going on this week.  I had to make the decision whether to go and play the Pebble Beach ProAm or whether to come out here and be first alternate.  I was going to Phoenix.  I had a lot of things to do.  I had to make that decision Wednesday, whether I will leave for Phoenix and do my stuff.  I was actually coming to Florida Friday, so I decided, "You know what, I'm going to go and be an alternate.  Whatever happens happens.  I can just hang out in Florida for whatever days."  I was in Phoenix getting a lesson with my coach that morning.  When I was done getting the lesson, I grabbed my phone.  Alex, which is my agent, said, "Marisa, you're in."  I was on my way to here.  That was Thursday, last Thursday afternoon.  Of course, (inaudible) being one of the IMG clients, I don't know if they knew already.  I knew through IMG, not through the LPGA. 

Q.  Because you got in the way you got in (inaudible)? 

MARISA BAENA:  Yeah, yeah.  I mean, exactly.  I was a little bit nervous.  Top 30.  I'm at the bottom of the list.  "Oh, great."  I was like, "I'm going to go out there, enjoy it."  I thought, "Free money, money I can go and spend during my off-season."  But of course, like everybody else, I wanted to come out here and win.  I wanted to come and be Top 10.  Even if I was get in last, I know I can compete with everybody else.  I think it's just a great opportunity for me.  I'm playing really well.  I came off third in Japan.  I think it's a great opportunity for me to really see all these things I'm working, they're going to work next year or not. 

Q.  What's the biggest difference in your game this year from last year?

MARISA BAENA:  I actually started working with a new coach last year in September.  I had a big hook at that time.  That's been one of the biggest difference, is that big hook is almost gone.  It's not gone, but it's almost gone.  My misses are much better.  I think by playing well, you confidence get boost up.  You feel better, you feed out of that.  When you don't play good, you feed out of not play good. 

I think that helps a little bit.  I think that's a big difference, just hitting the ball better and trying to have my misses better so I'm not in the trees as much, water, all that stuff. 

Q.  (Inaudible)?

MARISA BAENA:  Yes, I did.  I did actually make three 30-footers.  I'm not sure.  That was No.  10, 11 and 14.  It was kind of interesting because in college, I used to be a great putter.  I used to make a lot of long putts.  For some reason, I lost that.  I don't know what happened, but I stopped making long putts.  It just seems to me that I'm finally feeling that I'm back where I used to be in college confidence-wise with my putter where I can be aggressive.  One of the three-putts, I was just so far away, I mean, you are hoping to make two putts, which is No.  2.  And 17, I made a 3-putt.  I thought it was going to be lower than it was. 

Q.  (Inaudible)?

MARISA BAENA:  Yeah, I think it's a great golf course.  You need to be hitting your ball well.  Today I think  - let me think - I only missed three greens.  So I did hit a lot of greens.  Out of those three greens that I missed, two, my driver was in the trees.  I couldn't reach.  I had to chip out basically.  The other one was I missed the green by a foot.  16, over the flag.  So in reality, in my eyes, I didn't miss any greens today because I just hit the irons so well.  I think that's why you need on this golf course, to be hitting your irons where you aim.  That's what happened today. 

Q.  (Inaudible)? 

MARISA BAENA:  Yes, definitely.  I actually was (inaudible) to go to Japan.  The week before I didn't have a caddie or anything.  I thought, "I'll take one of the ladies out there."  I talked to my mom and dad.  My dad was the one who really wanted me to go.  I said, "I have nothing to go for."  My dad said, "If you play well, you can get in this event."  I'm like, "Well, it's tough."  That was my goal, to go out there and get in here.  But I went expecting nothing.  I rested for a month.  I didn't do very much.  You know, I got a caddie.  Then when I had a goal set, I figure I needed someone to do my numbers because I don't (inaudible).  I got a caddie.  It worked out great.  I went and played.  I played my way in.  It was awesome. 

Q.  (Inaudible)?

MARISA BAENA:  To my ankle?  I hurt it a little bit in Japan.  I have some new golf shoes.  Instead of give me a blister, I got my Achilles tendon a little bit irritated.  It was a very hilly golf course.  The ankle start hurting and I start compensating walking a little bit.  Lorie Kane actually taped it in Japan for me because we didn't have a trainer.  This week I went Tuesday and walked.  It was still sore.  I taped it again yesterday and today.  It's still a little bit sore, but I think I will be fine.

MARISA BAENA:  No.  1, I pulled a driver, hit the trees.  Hit to the green, had about a hundred yards in.  Had a wedge.  That was a 2-putt.  No. 2, I pull my driver again.  I had a 7-iron in.  I left it on front, it was like about 65 feet, and I 3-putted.  No.  3, it's a par 5.  I reach it on two with a 5-iron.  I 2-putted.  No.  4, I had a wedge in.  Hit it about ten feet.  Made that one.  No.  6, I had a wedge in, and I hit it two feet, made it.  No.  8, I pulled my driver left, I had to chip out.  Then I hit a 7-iron.  I 2-putted.  No.  9, I had a 9-iron.  I hit that  -- I made about a 10-, 12-footer for birdie.  No.  10 I had a 6-iron in.  I hit  -- that was like 35 feet.  No.  11 was a 6-iron.  I had about 35 feet also.  No.  14, it was an 8-iron.  I had about 35 feet also.  Last one, I had a 5-iron in.  I 3-putted.  I missed just a short putt coming back.  Never felt comfortable over it. 

Q.  (Inaudible)?

MARISA BAENA:  No, I wouldn't say it was softer.  The biggest difference was that the wind was blowing really hard today.  Some of those holes I will say played very difficult from the practice round.  The practice round, the wind was blowing the other way.  Yesterday the wind was blowing this same way.  A lot of us already knew what clubs to use from the ProAm.  At least I did.  Some of the holes was a little bit different.  But, of course, sometimes it was swirling also, which we didn't have that.  We had gulf winds today.  Yesterday was a good practice round.  I think it played similar, in my eyes. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT