ING NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
November 2, 2008
Zola Budd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  ZOLA BUDD: I'm pleased because I ran under three hours, and that's what I set out to do, so it was great.

 Q. 2:59?
 ZOLA BUDD: Yeah, around about there, just under 3:00.

 Q. What was it like for you? 
 ZOLA BUDD: It was a great race about all the spectators and I felt fine until about 35Ks and I saw my uncle waiting, and I knew I was in trouble. The last seven Ks was a trip to hell, but otherwise it was fine, thank you. 

 Q. Do you think it's important that an American eventually win this race again after 27 years to get more national interest in this country and get this race back on national television? Do runners talk about that at all, really the lack of American presence? 
 ZOLA BUDD: I don't think I'm really qualified to answer that. Sorry.

 Q. Could you put it another way and say how are you enjoying living in America, and what are your objectives during the time that you're here? 
 ZOLA BUDD: I think it was a big move because we moved in August, and getting the kids settled in school was a big change for us all. So yes, it was difficult. 
 But I'm enjoying it now. I've joined the local university and I'm training with them, and they're helping me. So I'm gradually getting back with the training and training on a regular basis. 

 Q. What sort of distances are you aiming at in the main? Obviously the marathon would only come round occasionally. 
 ZOLA BUDD: I think I'll concentrate on half marathons and 10Ks until next year, then try another marathon next year.

 Q. Have you got another one planned?
 ZOLA BUDD: Not yet, no.

 Q. Is there anybody out there in the crowd who recognized you who was shouting your name?
 ZOLA BUDD: There were quite a few South Africans along the way, yes. 

 Q. Was it nice to have fun again? 
 ZOLA BUDD: I really enjoyed it. It was a great marathon run, and it was organized so well.

 Q. Just following that, your running generally, those who have followed your career right through would be really happy to see you able to enjoy your running without all the pressures that used to be on you. Are you feeling like that now, now that you've got to this age and this country?
 ZOLA BUDD: Yes, definitely. I think I've reached a point in my life where running is a part of my life, and I fit it in between taking care of the kids. You don't have a lot of time to recover anymore. You have the time to train but not to recover. 
 So yes, I think I've more or less found balance in my life. 

 Q. Why did you decide to start later and not with the women's group today?
 ZOLA BUDD: If I run with the women's group today, I would have been so lost, running on my own in the wind. I think it was better to run with the main group and have friends around and people around. Yes, definitely. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT