NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: BLACKHAWKS v SHARKS
May 19, 2010
Scott Nichol
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Discuss the situation your team is in now. 
 SCOTT NICHOL: We're a confident bunch in here. We know what lays ahead of us. The old cliche: one game at a time. You're not going to win the whole series going back there. Shift by shift, game by game, go from there. 
 We're a good team. We're confident. We didn't come first overall in the Western Conference by a fluke or luck. So we got some skilled players. We got a good team. So we just got to go by that. 

 Q. (Question about overcoming.) 
 SCOTT NICHOL: I think we're better that way. Coming into the playoffs, Colorado beat us. Everybody was thinking, Here we go again, all the media and stuff. We proved them wrong. Nobody has confidence in us other than the guys in our room that know that we can get it done. 
 That's a good thing. We're a pretty dangerous animal when we've got our backs towards the wall. That's the way we're approaching it.

 Q. They're making life difficult on Thornton and some of your high-end guys. Is there a way for checkers on your team to make life more difficult on them?
 SCOTT NICHOL: Yeah. I think playing in their end, that makes it difficult. When they're in our end, they can be creative and all that. That's where they thrive. No one really likes to get hit. It's tough to make a play when you're faced against the glass, can't see where your teammates are. 
 For sure we can take a page out of their book and be tough on 'em and we'll go from there. 

 Q. They've been on the road for a long time. You've been home for a long time. Could the flip be good for you guys?
 SCOTT NICHOL: I think so. I think it's good for everyone to get together. We all go for dinners, really focus, really dig our heels in. We know what we have to do. 
 We have five or six days on the road. Just refocus, come together, we'll be okay. It's like I said, it's game by game. We're going to take Friday's game in and have a good outing, big win, and we'll go from there. 

 Q. You weren't around the last couple years. I don't know what you sense from a confidence standpoint in this group. I'm sure you heard guys answering questions about previous failures. Do you get any notion or sense of sort of a fragile confidence when you first got here? 
 SCOTT NICHOL: No. When I first got here, the mindset was Stanley Cup. That's what we approached this year as. That's what our goal is. Anything short of that is going to be a disappointment. We're all here for one purpose. That's why I say we're confident. We know we've had that mindset since training camp. It wasn't, Okay, we're going to come here and make the playoffs. 
 I remember when we clinched -- I don't remember when we clinched, a reporter came and asked us, Do you know what game you clinched? Went around asking 10 guys, and we had no idea. That wasn't our goal. Our goal was to win the Stanley Cup. Best-of-seven series. We're going to be a tough animal to cage, that's for sure.





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT