PENN STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 1, 2019
Robert Windsor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  One thing James noted on Friday night was how proud he was that the defense finished things off with the shout out, despite having third-stringers and true freshmen all over the field. What does that speak to you about the depth of this defense and kind of when you come to the sideline, when starters come to a sideline, the next man up is at a high level as well, it seems?  
ROBERT WINDSOR: Yeah, you kind of said it yourself. That tells us we have the depth and we have faith in the next guy up, so it's a good feeling to know that I can and a bunch of other starters can come off the field and have a good backup in for.   
 Q.  Isaac had a sack and a half flashed out there. Has he flashed since he got here back in January? He's added 15 or so pounds. Were you surprised or anticipating when he got his shot that he would do that?  
ROBERT WINDSOR: No, I wasn't surprised. More than anything I was happy for him. He got his opportunity and took advantage of it.   
 Q.  What are your thoughts on having HBO here for the past few days and what do you expect out of the episode that comes out?  
ROBERT WINDSOR: I think it's going to be fun to watch just because it's about us, but nothing's really changed. It's just another camera in the room. Everyone is kind of going about their business as usual.   
 Q.  Do you ever get disappointed if a good player on the other team isn't going to play?  
ROBERT WINDSOR: That's a tricky question. Like at the same time, it's like, okay, he's not playing, SO that helps us. But another time, we're like, we want him to play and be able to stop him because that just shows how good we are. So it's like a double-edged sword.   
 Q.  Who would be the best player that you've played against, do you think? Maybe specific to either your position or just a guy that you tried to tackle.  
ROBERT WINDSOR: That's a tough one. Who is the starting center who from Ohio State -- I can't remember -- yeah, Billy Price. He was a good one.   
 Q.  Before the season, you said that this was the best Penn State defense you've played on. Four games into the season, has your opinion changed at all?  
ROBERT WINDSOR: No. I have complete faith in my guys.   
 Q.  What is it about this defense, has anything surprised you, positively in these first few weeks?  
ROBERT WINDSOR: I would say everyone's -- the thing that's most surprising to me about this week is how we swarm to the ball as a defense. There's the entire running back and they are surrounded by a bunch of blue and White and so that's been really impressive to me.   
 Q.  The HBO Hard Knocks with the Texans, the team held an imitation contest of Bill O'Brien. Is that kind of contest taking place this week for HBO with James?  
ROBERT WINDSOR: I don't know, but we can get that arranged (Laughter).   
 Q.  Who does the best imitation?  
ROBERT WINDSOR: Antonio Shelton. (Laughter).   
 Q.  As someone who has filmed you a lot, what's it like kind of constantly being filmed?  
ROBERT WINDSOR: You just kind of get numb to it after a while. It's just like, oh, there's cameras -- at first it's kind of weird, and you don't be yourself, but you learn to be yourself. It's like they are there all the time.   
 Q.  Going against the O-Line every week in practice, how impressed were you with their bounceback performance against Maryland and what do you see in practice that led to that impressive performance?  
ROBERT WINDSOR: Well, I was really pleased with it and they get better every week because we go hard. We do good versus good every week, and we are going all out. So I'm getting them better, and they are getting me better. I'm real proud of the guys for their performance.   
 Q.  You guys are wearing those different uniforms this week. What's the favorite element of that for you?  
ROBERT WINDSOR: Looking good.   
 Q.  What's the favorite part about it? Some of your teammates really like the shoes.  
ROBERT WINDSOR: We really like the white cleats. They really pop.   
 Q.  Having faced four running backs, it seems like a rotation in practice, is there any difference between them in terms of styles, especially the freshmen, Cam and Ford, what makes them more difficult or different?  
ROBERT WINDSOR: They all have their own style of play. Like Noah will lower his shoulder and Devyn will try to juke you. We have power backs and we have speed backs, so it's good to have both.   
 Q.  If you feel like you haven't gotten to the backfield for sacks as much as maybe you would want to, can you explain to me, what is it that an offense can do or what is it that an offensive line can do that makes that harder for you?  
ROBERT WINDSOR: Well, one thing I think is that offenses, they know we have a good D-Line so they are prepared for. It one, they are getting the ball out quick, and two, they are max protecting. So I'm not worried about the sacks. I know they are going to come.   
 Q.  Can you better explain to us, if you can, the challenge when guys -- we know Yetur is going to get more attention and how that impacts you guys because it's not just a one-on-one question.  
ROBERT WINDSOR: Could you ask that again?   
 Q.  What changes when teams are putting a lot of attention on Yetur?  
ROBERT WINDSOR: When teams put a lot of attention on Yetur, that frees up either someone on the inside or the other defensive end because he's taking two guys, and one of us gets a one-on-one and we have to win those one-on-one matchups.   
 Q.  Is it difficult to look at? Do you feel like there are some you could have won and didn't?  
ROBERT WINDSOR: I'm sure there have been some one-on-ones that we've won but also ones we've won. We just go back and get better and we're going to continue to get better each week.   
 Q.  Can you just discuss the challenges that Purdue's offense is going to bring this week?  
ROBERT WINDSOR: Well, as you know, their QB is out, their best wide receiver is questionable. But that's not going to change our approach at all. We're expecting -- we're just going to play how we play defense, hard-nosed defense and we're expecting a lot of pass.   
 Q.  There there's been a lot of talk about the HBO people being around. Is Hard Knocks something that a lot of the players watch during your own training camp? Have you watched it over the years and how much are guys kind of fans of that show?  
ROBERT WINDSOR: I mean, yeah, guys watch it because some of our former teammates are on it and we like to talk about it, so it's a cool thing.   
 Q.  A couple guys I know you see in practice, Roberson and Johnson at quarterback. Johnson traveled with the team this past week, so I guess that's a good sign for him. What do both of those guys do to challenge you on a daily basis, and how are they different, those two freshmen quarterback and how they are able to challenge your first and second team defense on the practice field?  
ROBERT WINDSOR: They get us better every day by trying their hardest. They get frustrated sometimes being over there, the scout team, because obviously they want to be with the ones and twos.   
But know their role and they are playing it.   
 Q.  In that same regard, Will Levis was in that role last year. Was he as fiery in that role leading the scout team offense, as we see him in games when he's juiced up?  
ROBERT WINDSOR: 100 percent. Will is Will. The Will you see is the Will he was last year.   
 Q.  You said former teammates on Hard Knocks. Are you talking about Nassib?  
ROBERT WINDSOR: Yeah, an example, likes Nassib.   
 Q.  He was giving financial advice, wasn't?  
ROBERT WINDSOR: He was. I don't know how accurate, but he was,   
 Q.  Juice Scruggs, the situation he's been in, to see him getting back into football at this point, what has that meant to everybody else on the team? I know that you've probably gone against him a bunch, but what was that like and what's it like seeing him from your perspective get back into it?  
ROBERT WINDSOR: We're obviously happy to see our teammate get healthy. Putting in the work. That just shows if you pay hard, it's going to pay off, especially even when it comes to injuries.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT