SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 6, 2019
Jack Trent
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  This was your first TOUR event. How did this meet or exceed your expectations?  
JACK TRENT: Definitely exceeded my expectations. My goal at the start of the week was have a successful week, be four really solid rounds. I mean, I think I did a little more than solid I think, so I'm really happy right now.   
 Q.  When it comes time to evaluate your future, how much is this going to stick in your head for the fact that, I mean, you showed that you are amongst the world's elite when you're playing well.  
JACK TRENT: Yeah, I mean, I guess it just shows that if I play my game and keep my head down I can not only make the cut, but make a lot of birdies and play with some really good players.   
That's what it shows to me.   
 Q.  Were you pleased that you basically showed no fear the whole week? That was very impressive with your aggressive nature, despite this tournament and the stature.  
JACK TRENT: Yeah, normally I'm a pretty aggressive player. Thankfully my swing was working this week. I was a bit jittery last week. Yeah, I was going at most of the flags. College golf you have a lot of really tough pins, so coming out here I felt like I could breathe a little bit. Wasn't as brutal with te pins so felt like I could go at it.   
Fortunate the putter got hot so I could make some putts.   
 Q.  You talk about this game is so weird and so much fate has to intervene. Back at the Southern Highlands in March, if the guy from Texas makes his two-footer, what are you doing out here this weekend?  
JACK TRENT: Probably out here watching honestly. That's kind of how things work out. It's the game of golf and that's sport. I also made some bogeys coming in, so I guess I could have won it outright but also could've lost it outright.   
It is what it is, but I'm grateful for whatever happens, and I'm standing here right now.   
 Q.  You could have been getting Adam's autograph instead of playing a practice round with him.  
JACK TRENT: Yeah, could be. I'm glad I'm here.   
 Q.  Jack, do you find it odd that the scoring conditions were more favorable for you out here on tour than in some college events?  
JACK TRENT: Yeah, college they just like to hammer you with everything they for. Two of my last four events have been on U.S. Open courses and they've just been brutal. I was just in five-inch rough last week, so chopping it out here is a lot easier than there.   
Also just the pins, a lot of the pins they just put it on slopes. They just don't -- they don't really care for your well-being out there, so coming out here fell a little more fair.   
 Q.  Which two U.S. Opens courses?  
JACK TRENT: Pinehurst and Olivia Fields.   
 Q.  What's next for you, mate?  
JACK TRENT: I have a college event at Tavistock, so that's my next one, then couple week break. I so haven't been to school in three weeks. I don't know what my teachers look like anymore. I'll go back Tuesday and see if they remember me.   
 Q.  What about sponsor's invites? Should we be hammering the Aussie big tournaments back home during the summer?  
JACK TRENT: Yeah, I'm going to going back in January. Going to be playing Masters Amateur and Aussie Am. Also going to see my mates and stuff. It's been a while.   
 Q.  What about no wind out here? A lot different playing for the Rebels in the spring, isn't it?  
JACK TRENT: Yeah, no, around January to March it's just blowing like 25, 30 miles an hour. Just like usually every year this is like the perfect week for weather. I'm grateful it stayed like this. You can just fire at pins.   
 Q.  Did you ever think two years ago you were finishing third in something called the Jack Robin Invitational. Now you are out here with these guys. Just talk about how far you've come.  
JACK TRENT: Yeah, I mean, I guess that's just how it goes. You don't get straight in junior golf to PGA TOUR. It's very rare. Kind of just got to pay your dues and keep doing things you think are working well.   
That's what I've been doing the last five, six months, just trying to go through any checklist I've sort of developed, and so far it's been working. I'm going to update it a little bit.   
 Q.  Moving when you did, when you were a junior in high school, do you think that was the right move looking back in retrospect? How did what move help you get to where you were now?  
JACK TRENT: Yeah, that was a big move. It was also scary. I went from in beaches and rain forests to casinos and desert. Culture shock was pretty big.   
In the end it was the right move. I wanted to play collegiate golf, so that's kind of the next step. Kind of the feeder into the Korn Ferry Tour right now and PGA TOUR.   
Australia doesn't have that. You go from junior to professional. That's kind of why I'm here.   
 Q.  Forget the 72nd hole if you could. What are you going to remember most?  
JACK TRENT: My family and friends like really supporting me. You know, you work and you're kind of like out here just practicing, hitting shots, and try and pretend and visualize there is a crowd. To have it happen this week kind of felt like it already has happened in my mind, but in person it was a lot better. So, yeah.   
 Q.  Other than mom and dad and your coach, Cliff, anybody you like to thank you?  
JACK TRENT: Yeah, my parents for sure. My coach, Cliff. Been working with my game. Mentally just trying to tell myself, Hey, I do belong out here. I do you have the game. I do have the length. I can get hot with the putter. I can do everything these guys can do. I thank you them for telling me that because sometimes I lacked confidence.   
 Q.  It was pretty cool that coach got the exemption put in this year. First time.  
JACK TRENT: Yeah, I won like the inaugural sort of exemption, so first time they'd done that so very grateful for that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT