SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 5, 2019
Jack Trent
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I know you said at the beginning of the week that some first tee jitters. How comfortable are you now getting a couple rounds under your belt?  
JACK TRENT: Yeah, a first tee today it felt like any sort of college event that I normally play in. That pumped up feeling that I had the first two rounds I didn't have, so I could dial in my yardages.   
 Q.  Had to be a long wait to get here since you knew in March when you won this tournament that you would be playing this event. What was it like building up to the hype of this?  
JACK TRENT: When I first won and got the exemption in here it was like eight months away. Then got to seven, six, five, and then all of a sudden it's like three weeks out. I was like, oh, wow. This is actually happening.   
So to be here right now is pretty special.   
 Q.  What are little things you've been learning from your playing partners the first three days?  
JACK TRENT: To be honest, I don't really watch people. I'm kind of like in my own space. But just very thorough with what they do. Collegiate is still very thorough and focused, but even more so out here.   
 Q.  Anything in particular you noticed routine -- wise or something?  
JACK TRENT: No. I don't really watch people's routine. I've never been like that. But just really consistent, I guess.   
 Q.  Any interesting conversations you've had with guys?  
JACK TRENT: I've been so focused I haven't been talking a whole a lot. Been kind of keeping to myself, just me and my coach. We've been having some laughs about some things and jokes. That's keeping the pressure off a little bit.   
Everyone I've played with so far has been really nice and really supportive after the rounds. I guess I can thank them for that.   
 Q.  Let's rewind to a few days ago. Adam Scott. That was a pretty cool moment for you. How has that all played out?  
JACK TRENT: Yeah, that was a special moment. I think I was more nervous on the first tee with him than at the tournament. Really super guy, really chill, relaxed, easy to talk to; beautiful swing as well. He made it really easy and comfortable for me starting off the week, yeah.   
 Q.  I'm sure you got a bunch of text messages and phone called from family and friends back home. What are some of those conversations you've had?  
JACK TRENT: Well, the media in Australia thinks I've turned pro. I keep telling everyone, I'm still amateur. Just got an exemption in here. But the text are really supportive. Keep going; keep your head up; you're doing well. It's really supportive.   
 Q.  And a pretty smooth round today. What are some of the things that you feel like you're doing pretty well right now?  
JACK TRENT: I feel good with my body. I'm making consistent swings. Putting is really good right now. I'm making a lot putts consistently. So, yeah, putting is really strong right now.   
 Q.  In your wildest dreams did you think you would be in to top 10 when you looked at a Saturday leaderboard at this event?  
JACK TRENT: Not really. I wasn't really like -- I mean, you wish for it, but it's not something I'm like trying to go for. Yeah, start of the week four solid rounds was what I was really going for. I'm just going one hole at a time. It's nice to see my name up there I guess in the first page or two. It's pretty special.   
 Q.  Was there a point you noticed it?  
JACK TRENT: The first time I noticed I think it was on 16 green. I'm not really a big scoreboard watcher. Yeah, I think the first time I noticed I was in the top 10 was on 16 green after I just shanked it into the water.   
So that was good, so yeah.   
 Q.  Pretty impressive up and down given you went in the water.  
JACK TRENT: Yeah. Good save. Kept the momentum going, I guess.   
 Q.  When you see yourself out there with these guys and it might be a bit more difficult, how have you controlled your nerves?  
JACK TRENT: I've played -- I actually like playing with pros. Just kind of raises your game a little bit. Once I'm out there playing and the first tee nerves are gone, it's just the same old golf course I've been playing for quite a while. It's still golf. I'm not playing a different sport.   
All the grandstands are nice, but you're still playing golf. It's not like it has to be any different. I don't have to do anything differently than I do in collegiate or a U.S. Am or anything like that.   
 Q.  At the end of the day you've probably played 50, 60- 70 times out on this course.  
JACK TRENT: Yeah, I was a member for about a year and a half, and since then I haven't been out here a whole lot. The knowledge is still there in my mind.   
I was on the road for about two weeks straight for UNLV, so really didn't really get to play. My first round out here was probably with Adam Scott for about a month, but it came back pretty quickly.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT