DR PEPPER ACC FOOTBALL CHAMPIONSHIP GAME: CLEMSON VS MIAMI
November 28, 2017
Malik Rosier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: We have Malik Rosier, the quarterback for the University of Miami.  We'll go straight to questions for Malik.   
 Q.  There is so much talk going into this season about making the change at quarterback.  How much pressure did you feel and how much more comfortable are you in that spot now?  
MALIK ROSIER: I mean, starting off, there was a lot of pressure.  The competition of quarterbacks behind me were really good.  But the more I play, the more comfortable I'm getting in this offense, the more I'm starting to understand the calls that Coach Richt calls.  I'm starting to really feel off this offense.   
 Q.  What did you see in terms of the coaches, every year you have new personnel, the change of offense, play to people's strengths?  What do you think this coaching staff did to help you fit the offense and the offense fit you?  
MALIK ROSIER: I think the big thing they did was they realized that the best way to utilize me, especially in the run game, was not really to put me under center, but have me more in the gun, zone read type plays, stretch read type plays.  So that has been the biggest key.   
There's multiple plays where we key different defensive linemen and it's tough on them.  Coach Searels has done a great job with the blocking scheme.  Coach Richt and Coach Dugans have done a phenomenal job in the pass games to help guys get open and create easy completions for me.   
 Q.  Malik, it seems like it's almost like a storybook, full circle from 58-0 against Clemson to two years later playing in a completely different kind of game against Clemson.  Talk about what you remember about that day, though you probably don't want to remember it, and what happened after that game, especially in the days and weeks following.  Do you think that was when the seed was planted to get to where you are today?  
MALIK ROSIER: To a certain extent, yeah, with that game happening, Coach Richt got hired.  It's put us to where we are now.   
The big thing I learned from that game is always be prepared.  Brad, it was his second year starting.  In those types of games, I'm not going to play being the backup.  I think mid second quarter, Brad is down and I'm in.  That was the biggest thing, to always be ready.   
I learned that Clemson is a very fast and physical team that year, just like they are this year.  So the big thing is, just taking what they give me and try to make the least amount of mistakes, because that's what they live on.  They live on QBs making mistakes.   
They have really good defensive backs, a great D-line.  Coach had to put pressure on my face, make me throw hard.  The big thing is just completing balls and methodically driving down the field.   
 Q.  Explain your approach to this week and has that been the case after what happened last game?  
MALIK ROSIER: Like I said in the last game, the big thing was we started off slow.  A lot of it had to do with me, my body language.  Coach Brown has a big saying that the ship follows the leader, basically saying the ship only goes as far as I go, talking about our offense.   
The big thing the coaches have been stressing to me is push the offense, push the tempo, get these guys going.  We've worked on me putting balls in play.   
Coach Richt said if a ball is not in play, the receivers can't make one.  That's what we learned last week.  I was overthrowing guys, missing balls I don't normally miss.  We've dialed down on that.   
There's certain words that we do certain plays on.  I've been kind of lackadaisical and very out of the zone.  This week I've been pushing these guys, pushing the tempo, demanding greatness out of our team.   
 Q.  You had the shoulder thing earlier this year.  You wear a knee brace.  How are you physically?  
MALIK ROSIER: This week has probably been the most healthy I've been.  Last couple weeks I've been banged up.  There's some Sundays where I don't throw.  This is one of the few Sundays that I actually threw, threw very well actually.  My arm felt great.  My arm still feels great.   
That was the biggest thing.  Coach Richt texted me, asked me how I felt.  I said I felt fine.  I should be well rested for the game on Saturday.   
 Q.  How have you felt the mood around the team and around the players having to put a loss behind you for the first time this season?  
MALIK ROSIER: The big thing is just the moral support that everyone has given us.  I've had multiple defensive guys come up to me and say, We're fine, we got your back, don't worry.  Even the defensive coaches.   
Coach Mark Richt texted me after the game, I'm pretty sure Saturday, said, Don't worry about the game, let it go.  We'll put a great game plan together.  Put it behind you.   
That's the biggest thing.  Some guys, when you lose, they're done for.  They don't have I guess the maturity to put a loss past them and keep grinding.  There's so maturity in the loss because it wasn't like the greatest performance we ever had.  It's one thing mentally to lock back in and get ready for a great team we're going to play on Saturday.   
 Q.  How is your personal confidence level?  That was a rough outing the other night.  
MALIK ROSIER: Yeah, I mean, the big thing was just try to stay off social media.  The fans have done a great job.  My mom like screen shots stuff.  She is like, I don't understand why we don't respond.  There's a lot of fans that show me so much love.  I thank those fans that are there for me and supporting me.  At the same time, there are fans that bash.   
The big thing is don't let other people affect you.  All that matters is what's inside this building.  That's what Coach Richt preaches.  He is like, the only way a cancer really works is if it starts inside.  You can fight off stuff from the outside, but when cancer starts on the inside of a team it kills everything.  The guys have done a good job of just staying positive throughout this whole week.   
 Q.  Could you elaborate on how far the program has come since that game a couple years ago against Clemson.  Could you have imagined then you'd be where the program is now?  
MALIK ROSIER: There's kind of two ways of looking at this.  Talent-wise, yes.  If you ask any ACC coach, they'll tell you the University of Miami has always been a very talented team.  Guys from South Florida, very talented.  The skill level here is ridiculous.   
The difference the year we played Clemson two, three years ago and now is just a mindset.  With this mindset, yeah, this team is ready to go.  I mean, I felt like a couple years ago, more people were worried about going to the NFL, more worried about themselves, how they performed instead of the team.   
This team has bought into the process.  I think that's the biggest difference between back then and now.  Yeah, people want to go into the league, but at the same time we're worried about getting a ring more than we are about our NFL Draft stock.   
 Q.  What kind of fan group are you expecting up there?  I hear a lot of people are traveling.  They've sold the allotment of tickets and then some.  What are you expecting in the audience on Saturday from Miami fans?  
MALIK ROSIER: I mean, I'm expecting a great crowd.  I know our fans lately have been traveling very well.  I mean, I just expect a great crowd.  I know the flights from here in the South Florida area...   
My dad lives in Tallahassee.  Most of the flights to North Carolina are already sold out.  I have family members that are trying to fly to North Carolina.  They have to fly to Atlanta or somewhere closer to North Carolina and drive from that airport to North Carolina.   
There are going to be a lot of family fans coming to this game.  I expect them to have an impact for our defense on third down.   
 Q.  You mentioned people coming up to you at meals.  Talk about from two years ago to now just how much more prominent the program is, the flag they use, compared at the end of that season.  
MALIK ROSIER: The big thing, yeah, is you can just see the love.  I feel like there was fans around, people were supporting us, but nothing like it is now.  I mean, there was one guy that said, You're the heart and soul of Miami now.  That just means everything, the fact that people are behind us and people are representing.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Malik.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT