THE McGLADREY CLASSIC
October 24, 2014
Brendon de Jonge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   That's a pretty sporting Friday morning, no bogeys for 64.   Your thoughts on that one?
BRENDON de JONGE:   Yeah, that was nice.   It was nice to see a few putts go in.   It's been a little while.   Frustrating last year, I guess, but that was nice.

Q.   Now, tell me, there's something about the Seaside golf course that seems to fit because you've had a few good finishes before, and it really seems to work whenever you show up here, you shoot some good scores.   What is it?
BRENDON de JONGE:   I'm comfortable down here.   You know, I spend a lot of time down here, my management group's down here, and it's definitely a comfortable feeling anytime I'm on the island.

Q.   And to the course, how was it playing this morning?
BRENDON de JONGE:   You know, the ball wasn't going very far this morning.   A little chilly, but we didn't have a whole lot of breeze, so if you drive it in the fairway, you could get close to a few holes.

Q.   Fantastic round.   Good luck on the weekend. 
BRENDON de JONGE:   Thanks very much.

Q.   A bogey‑free 64 on Friday pushes Brendon de Jonge to 8‑under halfway through.   Brendon, you were even par through the first five holes and really got it going.   How were you able to do that?
BRENDON de JONGE:   I had a few chances early on, but didn't take them, obviously, but to make a couple birdies in a row around the turn was nice to kick start into the Back 9.

Q.   You're a guy who has a really packed schedule.   You're playing 30‑plus events this year.   How are you able to keep it going and stay fit this late in the season when other guys are usually winding down?
BRENDON de JONGE:   Very little practice at home.   I play a lot when I'm on the road, but I've learned how to put the clubs away when I'm home.

Q.   What's your mindset the final 36 as you head into the weekend?
BRENDON de JONGE:   I'm expecting to be more of the same.   I don't know if the breeze is supposed to get up.   I think it's going to take some pretty good scores out there. 

Q.   Next week in?
BRENDON de JONGE:   Malaysia.

Q.   CIMB?
BRENDON de JONGE:   CIMB, a week off; Turkey, a week off; Australian Open, week off; Australian PGA. 

Q.   You're the kind of guy that does like to play a lot of golf. 
BRENDON de JONGE:   I do.

Q.   Why is that?
BRENDON de JONGE:   I don't know really.   I enjoy playing.   You know, I do very little practice or playing when I'm home, so it all happens when I'm on the road.

Q.   You actually dialed it down from last year.   I think Jimmy told me you played 35 last year.   You're going to play 31 this year.   Are you trying to dial it back a little bit?
BRENDON de JONGE:   I'd like to.   I figure it's probably the right thing to do.   My body is telling me to slow down a little bit.

Q.   What is it about this tournament, this course that really brings out the best in you?
BRENDON de JONGE:   As I said over there, I'm very comfortable down here.   I've spent a lot of time down here.   My management group is based out of here.   I'm very comfortable on the island.

Q.   With two Sunday 65s your last two trips, what are you looking to Saturday to get yourself in even better position for Sunday?
BRENDON de JONGE:   Hopefully more of the same that I've done the first two rounds.   I've hit the ball nicely, hit it in the right spots.   And you know, as I said, great to see a few putts finally go in.

Q.   Has the swing been coming around?   Have you felt over the last couple of weeks?
BRENDON de JONGE:   Yeah.   You know, I felt like I played better last year than the results showed.   As I say, the putter was very, very streaky.   And I feel like I've hit it nicely the last two weeks, just haven't got much out of it.

Q.   Have you made in the adjustments with your putter?
BRENDON de JONGE:   Put in a new putter.

Q.   This week?
BRENDON de JONGE:   Yeah.   The end of last week.

Q.   What is it?
BRENDON de JONGE:   The Kombi, the big black Titleist thing.

Q.   Oh, really?   What made you go to that?
BRENDON de JONGE:   I used it for a while last year, and then I figured just to switch back to it.

Q.   What did you switch from, to?
BRENDON de JONGE:   Similar shaped Odyssey.

Q.   But you went to the new Scotty Cameron?
BRENDON de JONGE:   I went back to the Scotty Cameron from the Odyssey.

Q.   How did you putt today?
BRENDON de JONGE:   I putted nicely today.   I gave myself a lot of chances, but I made the ones I was supposed to.

Q.   15, 16, 17, three birdies in a row.   Can you take us through those?
BRENDON de JONGE:   I hit it on 15 in two about 30 feet left of the hole and two‑putted that one.   I hit a nice drive down 16, hit a sand wedge in there about three feet.   And then hit a 5‑iron on 17 to about 12 feet.

Q.   What does it take to get through a bogey‑free round here on this golf course?
BRENDON de JONGE:   You know, you gotta drive the ball on a lot of these fairways.   It's so hard to control it into these greens out of the rough.   If you do, you gotta play safe and miss it in the right spots.

Q.   When does your flight leave for Malaysia?
BRENDON de JONGE:   Sunday night.

Q.   Sunday coming up in two days?   And you get in, what, Tuesday morning?
BRENDON de JONGE:   Yeah.

Q.   What's the rest of your day entail now?
BRENDON de JONGE:   Go putt for a little while and then take it easy this afternoon. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT