JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 10, 2014
Brendon de Jonge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You've got to be happy with the overall score?  
BRENDON de JONGE:   Yeah, I am.   Obviously, a little disappointed with the finish.   You know, I played nicely.   Obviously, made some birdies around the turn, but we had it as good as can be this morning.   The greens are perfect, no breeze.   The course was for the taking.  
   
 Q.   You're a very quick starter again this week.   How do you do that week‑in and week‑out?   You're always top of the leaderboard first couple of rounds.   
BRENDON de JONGE:   I don't know about that.   I've had a couple decent starts this year.   I don't know.   I have nothing to explain it.  
   
 Q.   What was working best for you out there today?   Obviously, your putter was working really well the first nine.   
BRENDON de JONGE:   Yeah, I drove the ball well.   I think I hit it on most fairways.   The one I missed was number 9.   I gave myself a lot of looks, which you need to do on this golf course.  
   
 Q.   What is the key to playing well here?   
BRENDON de JONGE:   You've got to make a bunch of birdies.   You have to make them from the start and make them all four days.   The scores are going to continue to get lower and lower.  
   
 Q.   Last year you played well, 65 this year.   You like the first rounds out here?   
BRENDON de JONGE:   Yeah, obviously, a little disappointed with the way I finished.   I had it going nicely.   But if someone offered me 65 at the start, I would have taken it.  
   
 Q.   What was it about this course early on that was to your liking?   
BRENDON de JONGE:   As I said over there, I drove it on a lot of fairways, which sets up this golf course and I gave myself a lot of birdie chances from there.  
   
 Q.   Mindset going into tomorrow?   
BRENDON de JONGE:   It's going to be more of the same.   Guys are going to keep making birdies out there.   The scores are going to be low.   We've had absolutely beautiful weather, so it's going to be more of the same.  
   
 Q.   You talked about the rough yesterday.   Bugs seemed nasty today, did you notice those?   
BRENDON de JONGE:   Yeah, I mean, they're kind of hard to ignore, but, yeah.   If that's all we've got to complain about, we're all right.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT