U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 13, 2014
Brendon de Jonge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Solid round out there.  Feeling pretty good about your position?BRENDON DE JONGE: Yeah, I do.  I didn't play nearly as well today as I did yesterday, but I was lucky enough to manage it and miss it in the right places and got a lot of balls up-and-down.
Q. The course got a lot of rain, how tough was it today?  Did you think you could go at it more?BRENDON DE JONGE: Yeah, being definitely.  I guess we had almost three-quarters of an inch last night.  It softened things up.  But it also meant that you had some longer clubs into these greens, which is tough as well. They had some really difficult flags out there.  But, yeah, I think if you're going to get it, today might be the day.
Q. Martin is 10-under par, is that just incredible?BRENDON DE JONGE: It really is.  That's very, very impressive.
Q. (No Microphone.)BRENDON DE JONGE: No.  I was maybe 10 over par.  Winning the tournament was more what we were looking at during the practice rounds.  But as I said, that's incredible.
Q. Is it a little demoralizing to be 2-under going into the weekend being eight shots back right now?BRENDON DE JONGE: No, I don't think demoralizing is the word.  I'm under par through two rounds at the U.S. Open, very, very happy with that.
Q. (No Microphone.)BRENDON DE JONGE: I think it's great.  There was some great options out there today.  A couple of the really tough pins they played up some smart tees.  I thought 3 was great.  It gave you an opportunity and gave you all kinds of options.
Q. Did you think about not going for it?BRENDON DE JONGE: No, no.  It was a pretty good number, if you hit a good tee shot today.
Q. How does it feel to play well and be eight back?  Are you surprised?BRENDON DE JONGE: Yeah, probably more surprised than anything.  As I said, I didn't see 10-under out there.  But that's obviously very, very impressive.
Q. Thoughts going into tomorrow?BRENDON DE JONGE: Yeah, hopefully more of the same.  I'm going to have to hit it in a few more fairways tomorrow than I did today, but I feel like I managed my way around there pretty well today and hopefully more of the same this weekend.
Q. As a chaser, would you prefer receptive greens or firm, fast, fiery greens?BRENDON DE JONGE: I think if you're driving the ball really well, you want firm greens out there chasing.  But if you start missing a couple fairways, you need some softness out there.
Q. How were the native areas playing after the rain?BRENDON DE JONGE: Probably a little bit easier.  It was more matted down.  You can get a better lie. Yesterday it was a little bit more sandy and it was kind of 50/50 whether the ball would sit up on top.  There are a couple areas that had washed out, so it was almost just like hitting off hard pan.
Q. Were you looking at scoreboards out there?BRENDON DE JONGE: Yeah, I did.  I looked a couple times and up 16, 17 and 18 just to see that he kept making birdies.  But it's incredible.
Q. We saw last time when Goosen led by three after 54 that firm, fast volatility seems to help those trying to catch up?BRENDON DE JONGE: I think so.  It's a very, very difficult golf course, I would say, to play overprotective on, especially once it gets firm and fast.
Q. (No Microphone.)BRENDON DE JONGE: The flag on 2, any time you get on that right side it's going to be very difficult.  And there were a couple others.  But they did a really good job of moving some tees up when they had some tough flags.
Q. Do you think that the USGA overreacts to the scores out there when they set up the course tomorrow?BRENDON DE JONGE: I don't know if "overreact" is the right word.  I think it's going to obviously influence how they set it up a little bit.  Obviously it depends what happens this afternoon as well, if this rain comes or not. But I think, yeah, we can expect a pretty difficult golf course on the weekend.
Q. That said, because of the Women's Open that's coming here this week, they have to keep the grass healthy for another week, do you think that would maybe put a little governor on them pushing it to edge that they like to do?BRENDON DE JONGE: I think it would have.  I think if we got that much rain last night then I think that they are probably not going to have put a lot of water and not worry about it.  It was pretty soft out there this morning, to be honest.
Q. Keegan Bradley said this is his favorite U.S. Open setup.  Bubba Watson said this course just doesn't suit his eye.  Where do you fall on that?BRENDON DE JONGE: I like the way the golf course looks.  I think it's great.  I like the style of golf here.  I played a couple weeks down at Royal Melbourne at the end of last year and I loved the way that looked, and I think this has a sort of similar vibe to it.  I think it's absolutely great.
Q. Are you comfortable here?BRENDON DE JONGE: Yeah.  Yeah.




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT