THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 8, 2014
Brendon de Jonge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Was the first round last week a wake‑up call or what?
BRENDON DeJONGE:   I don't know if it was a wake‑up call.   No, it's a strange game, and it kind of goes around in circles.   I wouldn't say it was a wake‑up call.

Q.   Is there anything better about your game? 
BRENDON DeJONGE:   You know, obviously I've made a few more putts the last few rounds, and you kind of need to to shoot some good scores.   That's been the biggest difference for sure. 

Q.   You guys all were playing well today.   Feel good about the dynamic of the group?
BRENDON DeJONGE:   You know, it was great.   We went out first.   We were able to play at our own pace.   I think all three of us are pretty quick players.   We could get going, get in a nice rhythm, and I think Martin and I kind of fed off Lee a little bit.   He played great, didn't miss many shots out there.   It was a nice relaxed feel out there, and it was easy to play golf. 

Q.   After you shot that 80, the swing of emotions that day and then the next day and everything, can you talk a little bit about that? 
BRENDON DeJONGE:   Yeah, you know, after I shot 80, I was disappointed, obviously.   I think that was the biggest thing.   But it's golf, these things are going to happen.   The biggest disappointment was that I was at home.   It was a tournament I really look forward to every year, and I had a lot of family and friends in town.   That was probably the biggest thing.   You play this game long enough, these things are going to happen.

Q.   Do you feel like you're back on track now? 
BRENDON DeJONGE:   You know, I'm still working on it.   I feel like my game is great.   I've managed to put a couple good scores out recently, but I feel like I'm still not exactly where I want to be. 

Q.   Putting or what?
BRENDON DeJONGE:   No, more so striking.   I've made some putts the last few rounds which have sort of kept me in it, but I'm still not hitting it the way I'd like to.

Q.   You've had some good finishes on this course the last few years.   What about it suits your game?
BRENDON DeJONGE:   I feel like I've learnt a lot out here the last few years, how to play this golf course.   It's a very, very uncomfortable golf course.   You've kind of got to hit clubs that you feel comfortable hitting off the tees, kind of throttle back quite a bit out here.   I think it's one of those golf courses that the more you play it, you more you learn about it.   Hopefully I'll keep going in that direction.

Q.   Obviously the 80 last week, and you battled through some injuries at Honda.   Is it a point of pride for you to keep grinding when obviously there are a lot of guys‑‑ we've had some injury‑related WDs this year?
BRENDON DeJONGE:   Yeah, definitely.   I feel like you can get something out of every round.   Unless I'm really hurt, I'm going to try to play my way through whatever I can.

Q.   Did you consider WD'ing last week?
BRENDON DeJONGE:   No.

Q.   So that wasn't injury related at all?
BRENDON DeJONGE:   No, not at all.   It was putter related. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT