WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 2, 2014
Brendon de Jonge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What a day for Brendon de Jonge.   Yesterday forgettable with that 80, but you turn around and shoot 62 and tie the course record.   Brendon, how did you do that?   What was so different today than 24 hours ago? 
BRENDON DE JONGE:   I had absolutely nothing to lose starting out this morning.   I knew it was going to take a wonderful round just to play the weekend, so it was a little bit easier to relax and be a little bit more aggressive out there. 

Q.   Now, you're a Charlotte area resident.   How often have you been able to come and take a look at Quail Hollow and play this layout? 
BRENDON DE JONGE:   I played it a couple of times the week leading up, but before that I hadn't played it since last year, so there are a couple of changes, and I think the changes are good. 

Q.   Your back nine, which was your first nine today, you go out and shoot 30 with the eagle at 14.   Did you feel, "I got something going today, I got to capitalize on this momentum"? 
BRENDON DE JONGE:   No, I knew I had to keep going really just to make the cut, so I had that mind‑set all day that I needed to get out and get as far under par as possible and thank goodness it worked out. 

Q.   How much fun is a day like today for you when you're out there knowing that you need to go low just to stick around for the weekend? 
BRENDON DE JONGE:   No, as horrible as yesterday was, today was as nice.   So this game gives you something and takes something away. 

Q.   What an incredible turn of events.   80 to a 62, ties the course record.   How were you able to pick up 18 shots today? 
BRENDON DE JONGE:   As I said over there, I had absolutely nothing to lose coming out this morning and I had that mind‑set all day, trying to get so far under par as possible and thank goodness it work out. 

Q.   Did tying the record ever creep into your mind?
BRENDON DE JONGE:   No, this golf course is too hard, you know, as soon as you let your guard down out here it's going to jump up and bite you.   So no I did a good job of staying in the present today.

Q.   What did you learn about yourself as a player today coming out here and shooting this number compared to yesterday? 
BRENDON DE JONGE:   I'm always proud of myself.   I'm not giving up.   I tried my hardest yesterday, I just couldn't get anything out of it, so to come and get something out of it was very rewarding. 

Q.   Brendon, quite a turn‑around today.   Comment on excellent play. 
BRENDON DE JONGE:   It was fun.   You know, it was nice.   To come out here with no expectations, after yesterday, and to put a good number on the board like I did was very self‑fulfilling. 

Q.   Tying the course record, setting it on the 9th.   Does the thought creep in or were you not thinking about it? 
BRENDON DE JONGE:   No, I did a good job of staying in the present and not getting too far ahead of myself.   I obviously knew I was playing well and making a bunch of birdies but I did a pretty good job of staying in the moment today. 

Q.   Is it the craziest turn‑around from one round to another in your career? 
BRENDON DE JONGE:   Oh, yeah, without a doubt, you know yesterday was‑‑ as bad as yesterday was, today was nice.

Q.   What was the difference? 
BRENDON DE JONGE:   You know, I made a couple of putts early today; I couldn't make it from 3 feet yesterday.   I made a couple of putts early.   I did change putters.   It's a strange game. 

Q.   Change putters from yesterday to today? 
BRENDON DE JONGE:   Yeah. 

Q.   How often do you get a chance to play here? 
BRENDON DE JONGE:   I haven't been out here much this year.   I played a little bit the week leading up but I haven't been out much this year. 

Q.   I noticed you tossed the ball to a young fan outside the green, is that not one you wanted to keep, the course record here, or did you pull the "'ol switch‑a‑roo"? 
BRENDON DE JONGE:   I didn't pull the "'ol switch‑a‑roo!"   No, you know, it's just another golf ball.   I'm not that superstitious. 

Q.   You said you had low expectations.   What were you thinking when you tee'd it up today? 
BRENDON DE JONGE:   I was just trying to come and shoot the best possible score I could, try and get momentum going into next week.   Obviously we have a huge week next week, so haven't been playing my best and just trying to get some momentum. 

Q.   Did the low expectations help, maybe less pressure and let you just play? 
BRENDON DE JONGE:   Without a doubt.   I wish I could go into every round with that kind of a mind‑set, but it's easier said than done. 

Q.   When did you realize it was going your way?   When did you start feeling it? 
BRENDON DE JONGE:   You know, probably when I birdied 17.   That hole is so difficult and I hit a tee shot exactly how I wanted to, and I figured then that things were going my way. 

Q.   This is oftentimes a tough tournament for guys that live here because of the distractions of friends and family.   Have you changed things this week and have you had people tugging at you and wanting things? 
BRENDON DE JONGE:   No, no, it's been great.   I love this tournament.   My wife does a great job of handling the ticket requests and things, and it's fun to play in front of a home crowd when you have people pulling for you and always enjoy it and always played well here, as well. 

Q.   62 doesn't fall out of the trees.   How do you back this up tomorrow?   You may not be first, but the leaders are within sight. 
BRENDON DE JONGE:   Without a doubt.   To be honest, I didn't expect to be playing this weekend, so everything is a bonus.   I have to do a good job of starting fresh tomorrow and realizing that it's a new round. 

Q.   Do you feel like you stole a paycheck? 
BRENDON DE JONGE:   Yeah, very much so, and I'm running with it.   It's fun when things like that happen. 

Q.   Did you know that last putt was for the course record? 
BRENDON DE JONGE:   I figured something like that, yeah. 
THE MODERATOR:   Brendon, thank you, sir.   







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT