THE HONDA CLASSIC
February 27, 2014
Brendon de Jonge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Great playing today with 66, kind of a roller coaster round, seven birdies, four bogeys.   Describe your round today?  
BRENDON DE JONGE:   Yeah, you know, it's going to happen on this golf course.   There's so much trouble out there and times you play away from it, it's going to lead to a bogey, but you try to limit the damage.  
   
 Q.   You came off of bogey at 16.   What was your mentality going through 17 and 18?   
BRENDON DE JONGE:   Well, lucky enough, we had 17 playing a little bit downwind today so it was an easier tee shot and then 18 is a reachable par 5, so I figured if I could just make bogey on 16 and then maybe have a chance on 18.  
   
 Q.   The course has obviously been resigned including the bunkers, etc.   How did you find it today in the opening round?  
BRENDON DE JONGE:   There's still trouble all over the place out there.   There have been some bunkers removed and some bunkers added but it still plays very, very similar to how it has in the past.  
   
 Q.   Off early on this Thursday, able to take advantage by 66, how pleased are you with the start in what seemed like benign conditions on a tough golf course?  
BRENDON DE JONGE:   Obviously very pleased.   It is a tough golf course, and even with just a little bit of breeze, there's trouble all over the place.   Yeah, very pleased to get it in.  
   
 Q.   What about this place maybe fits your eye, you've had some past success here and we know it's a challenge for the best players in the world.   
BRENDON DE JONGE: I think overall, it's definitely a ball‑striker's golf course.   You have to hit it in the fairways to come into these greens and that sort of lends to my strengths.  
   
 Q.   Staying with Presidents Cup captain Nick Price this week, how has that relationship continued to blossom and what have you learned from him?  
BRENDON DE JONGE:   He's the perfect guy if you're struggling with anything or need a little help to bounce things off.   Spent a lot of time with him on the putting green yesterday.   
   
 Q.   What are some of the things you worked on with regards to your putting?   
BRENDON DE JONGE:   Just same stuff, I have my tendon sighs and I fall into bad habits and just trying to square things up a little bit.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT