THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 4, 2013
Brendon de Jonge
Graham DeLaet
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What a great finish for you guys.   
ERNIE ELS:   Absolutely, yeah.   Brendon played awesome.   He played great yesterday.   Actually he even played better today, so really nice day.   Hit some putts early, got some holes early on and kept the pressure on.  
   
 Q.   I think you're one of the unsung heros of this Presidents Cup, you had a great opening round and were putting and playing well again today.   
BRENDON dE JONGE: We both played great today.   We kept the pressure on them from the start which was obviously the key in this format.   Nice to get that win under our belt.   
   
 Q.   You're so used to rain delays; how did you spend the rain delay and were you able to keep your focus?   
ERNIE ELS:   Well, some of us played PlayStation and go nuts, and some of us sit on the couch and eat; so we did the latter.   
   
 Q.   You guys got off to a fast start, I know it was tough to catch up with those guys later on, they certainly played really well.   
GRAHAM DeLAET: They really did.   We were 3‑under through nine and 3‑down.   There's not much more you can do.   They played great, and it's unfortunate, but we still have two more days, so we're going to go and root on the rest of the boys here.  
   
 Q.   What was the mood when they were starting to roll through all those holes?   How tough is it to keep your composure?   
GRAHAM DeLAET: It's difficult but just trying to keep giving ourselves chances and unfortunately we just were not hitting the shots.   They played great and played better than us and deserved the win.  
   
 Q.   Talk about the format.   
GRAHAM DeLAET: It was good.   I think we had a good game plan and everything.   We clicked well together, the two of us, and unfortunately we just didn't play our best.   
   
 Q.   Tomorrow the plan is?   
GRAHAM DeLAET: Well depends on the weather and what Mother Nature brings and what they are planning on doing, not really sure yet.   
   
 Q.   Going to make it to the hockey game?   
GRAHAM DeLAET: We are going to try to.   The main thing is to root on these guys first, and if we have enough time, we'll get there.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT