DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 31, 2013
Brendon de Jonge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Just talk about your round today and what was going on?  
BRENDON de JONGE:   I putted well today.   I made a lot of key putts at the right time just to keep the round going.   I had a couple of good par saves starting on the back nine.  
   
 Q.   Your position in the FedExCup, looking forward, you have a good shot at Atlanta, possibly.   What are your thoughts about coming into this week and getting there?  
BRENDON de JONGE:   Obviously I knew I needed three good weeks to get to Atlanta.   I had a good, steady week last week and I've gotten off to a good start this week.   It's going to take six more good rounds to get to Atlanta.  
   
 Q.   Last couple of years you've been playing real consistent, playing well.   Are you happy where your game is and how things are progressing?  
BRENDON de JONGE:   Yeah, obviously from a consistency standpoint I'm very happy.   I would like to have put myself in contention a little bit more this year.   But I feel like things are turning in the right direction.  
   
 Q.   Talk about the course today and just what it was like this morning, and what you think it will be like this afternoon?  
BRENDON de JONGE:   We had it dead calm for probably the first nine, ten holes.   And then started picking up a little bit sort of our last seven or eight holes.   It's going to get a little bit tricky.   There's some back tees and back pins on that back nine that are playing pretty long.   A couple of holes into the breeze.   It's going to be a little bit tricky.  
   
 Q.   Did you notice a big difference between playing yesterday and this morning and conditions?  
BRENDON de JONGE:   Yeah, you know, the greens got a little bit chewed up yesterday.   
It's still pretty soft out there.   This morning they were absolutely perfect.  
   
 Q.   Are you going to watch the game tonight, Virginia Tech has a big one?  
BRENDON de JONGE:   I'll watch the first quarter and we'll see from there.   I'm a little scared.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT