JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 11, 2013
Brendon de Jonge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Exciting way to finish with a nice up‑and‑down.   Tell us about it, especially starting with the third shot because you really had nothing to play with there, did you?  
BRENDON DE JONGE:   No, once I hit the second shot there I was in trouble.   It was kind of that kind of day.   I got away with a lot.   I didn't play as well as I scored, so that's always a nice thing.   
   
 Q.   10th hole, par‑5, your first hole this morning, you hole out from about 88 yards.   Tell us about that.   
BRENDON DE JONGE:   Yeah, obviously a nice start to the day.   I left myself a good number and hit a good shot in there and then chipped it in a couple holes later, so got off to a good start.  
   
 Q.   What is it about this place, because you get birdies everywhere, but you really like this place, don't you?  
BRENDON DE JONGE:   I do, yeah.   I like the golf course.   I think it's fun to play.   Obviously throughout the summer we play a lot of tough golf courses, and it's nice to come here where it's not an easy golf course but it gives you a lot of birdie chances.  
   
 Q.   I saw you last week at the Greenbrier.   The game seems to be trending upwards.   You're playing really well right now.   Are you confident?  
BRENDON DE JONGE:   I am confident, yeah.   I played three good rounds last week, and a shame about Saturday, but yeah, I feel like I'm on the right track.  
   
 Q.   You're getting close, I can tell.   
BRENDON DE JONGE:   I hope so.   
   
 Q.   How pleased are you with your start?   
BRENDON DE JONGE:   Oh, very pleased.   As I said, I scored better than I played today, which is always nice.   
   
 Q.   Tied for 17th a week ago.   Are you getting the sense that your game is heading in the right direction?   
BRENDON DE JONGE:   I think so.   You know, I felt like I played really well last week other than a five‑ or six‑hole stretch, otherwise I would have been right there.   So yeah, I think it's on the right track.  
   
 Q.   What is it about this golf course?   You seem to have some success here, had a chance a few years ago.   What is it about this place that really fits your eye?  
BRENDON DE JONGE:   You know, I enjoy playing it.   I think it's fun to play.   We play a lot of tough golf courses throughout the summer, and it's always nice to come here where there's a lot of chances at birdies.   
   
 Q.   Pretty good save there.   Looked like Steve Stricker might have given you a high five.   
BRENDON DE JONGE:   Yeah, he owes me one.   I'll take it.  
   
 Q.   Talk about your round, did well on 16, 17 and 18.   Talk about getting out here and getting off to a good start.   
BRENDON DE JONGE:   Yeah, I thought it was nice going out really early today.   We had great conditions this morning, so it's nice to put a good number on the board early.   
   
 Q.   Is there something about this course that kind of gets your motor running?   You seem to have a lot of success here.   
BRENDON DE JONGE:   Yeah, I like the golf course.   I like the way it sets up, and as I said over there, I think it's fun to play, and we play a lot of tough golf courses throughout the summer.   It's nice to come here where it gives you a lot of birdie opportunities.  
   
 Q.   Talk about your third on 10 there, that eagle.   What was that, 88 out?  
BRENDON DE JONGE:   Yeah, yeah, I had just under 90 yards.   Obviously you're aiming at the hole, but when it goes in it's a bonus, and on your first hole of the day that's always a good start to it.   
   
 Q.   Not that it's ever in bad shape, but we understand a lot of players have said the conditioning is really good this year.   
BRENDON DE JONGE:   Oh, it's immaculate.   If you're putting well you're going to make a lot of putts, as good as the greens are.   We've never played it when it's been in bad shape.   
   
 Q.   Do you have a number in mind for the week?  
BRENDON DE JONGE:   No, not at all.   Not at all.   It's too early for that.   
   
 Q.   Do you have to think in the 20s?   
BRENDON DE JONGE:   Yeah, you know, obviously looking at the weather forecast, it's supposed to be good all week.   We're not supposed to get a lot of wind, so I think it will probably be something in the 20s.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT