JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 6, 2012
Jonas Blixt
Brendon de Jonge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. I'll ask the same question of you two that I asked of Ryan.   What was it like playing in this group together today, everybody is making shots, it's competitive, you can see what's right in front of you, you don't have to guess‑‑ Jonas, could you talk about what it was like playing with Brendon and Ryan and just the round that you guys put up together?  
JONAS BLIXT:   Well, it was great today.   They're both great guys, was very relaxed out there, and I just had a good time.   Then they ran away a little bit, and then I got lucky, I got hot in the end and made some putts and was able to catch them in the end there.   I'm really looking forward to tomorrow.   It's going to be a lot of fun.   
   
 Q.   What did you think just playing in this group where your partners are making shots and no one is disappearing?   
BRENDON DE JONGE:   It was great.   We had a nice atmosphere out there.   Everyone was playing well.   When everyone is playing well you can feed off each other, and I think we did a good job of that today, saw a lot of putts go in.   Everyone played well, and hopefully we'll have more of the same tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   How do you guys handle tonight?   Do you try to relax and not think about the tournament at all, or are you the type of guys that it's going to be on your mind and you're going to be thinking about being in contention tomorrow?   
BRENDON DE JONGE:   No, in Vegas I definitely won't be thinking about the tournament.   There's a lot of other stuff to do in this place.   It won't be hard to get away from it all.   That's what's nice about playing a tournament in a place like this.   It's very easy to get away from golf once you're done.   
JONAS BLIXT:   Well, I have my family here, so I'm just going to survive pretty much.   I have my sister, my brother and my brother's girlfriend out here, they went to the Grand Canyon today, so I hope they survived and make it back.   Just going to go and watch a football game right now and have a nice dinner, and there will be no golf thinking.   
   
 Q.   How was the shopping yesterday, by the way, the Puma store?   
JONAS BLIXT:   I didn't go.   I'm sorry, I lied to you.   
   
 Q.   That's not nice.   
JONAS BLIXT:   Well, you're media; you lie to me all the time (laughter).   
   
 Q.   You never made it‑‑  
JONAS BLIXT:   No, we went to the pool instead.   We got back, and it was kind of late, so we were like, oh, let's go to the pool instead.   
   
 Q.   What will be the key tomorrow to‑‑ those pins were in some tough spots today.   You guys still somehow found ways to score.   How much will that help you tomorrow in terms of you gaining more knowledge of the course and also just what should be expected out there?   
JONAS BLIXT:   Well, I kind of got away from my game plan in the beginning of the day, trying to be too cute, going for the pins, and I also hit some bad shots.   
So tomorrow I'll probably try to go back to the game plan I had from the beginning and just try to hit a lot of greens.   My putter seemed to work.   So that's what I'm going to try to do tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Brendon, what about for you tomorrow?   You saw what happened today; it's hard to shoot at some of these pins, isn't it?  
BRANDON DE JONGE:   Yeah, it is, and I think that's key.   It's obviously a golf course where you've got to make a lot of birdies, but in saying that you've kind of got to pick and choose your spots, as well.   If you don't have a great enough for a number, don't go for it just because you can see everyone is making a bunch of birdies around you.   It's a matter of being a little bit disciplined, as well, at times.   
   
 Q.   Ryan called it controlled aggressiveness; you've got to be smart?   
JONAS BLIXT:   Sure.   
   
 Q.   Looks like you guys were able to figure that out for yourselves.   
BRENDON DE JONGE:   Yeah, so far so good, obviously.   Hopefully we can go out and do more of the same tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT