JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 5, 2012
Brendon de Jonge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  DOUG MILNE:   Brendon De Jonge, thanks for joining us for a few minutes after a successful second round here at the Justin Timberlake Shriners Hospitals for Children Open.
You came into the week leading the TOUR in total birdies I think with 364, and you've since added 14 to that; therefore you find yourself, not surprisingly, right atop the leaderboard with 14‑under heading into the weekend.
Just a few comments on the first two rounds.   On the Golf Channel I heard you talk about your confidence with driving, so maybe we can start with that. 
BRENDON DE JONGE:   Yeah, I've driven the ball well for the first two rounds.   With as receptive as the greens are here, you're going to have a lot of chances when. 
That's been the key:   I've been able to set myself up score well from the fairways. 

Q.   Why does the golf course fit you so well?
BRENDON DE JONGE:   First time I've played well here, so I don't know if it really does fit me well.   It has obviously for the first rounds.   I like the town.   I like the vibe.   I've always had fun in Vegas, and so far it's translated to the golf course.

Q.   (Question regarding course record. )
BRENDON DE JONGE:   You know, it's one of those thing if you think about it too much you can add a little more pressure.   You make three, four pars in a row and watch five, ten guys go past you.   So from that standpoint it's not easy.
You tell yourself if you're playing well you're gonna have a lot of chances out here.   I think the key is to try and stay patient.

Q.   You come close, you're knocking on the door.   You get the sense that this might be the week for you just because of the way some things are falling? 
BRENDON DE JONGE:   I don't know about that.   We got a long way to go obviously.   You know, I've played nicely for the first rounds, but to start thinking about winning right now would be jumping ahead a little bit. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
BRENDON DE JONGE:   Yeah, you know, honestly, that one did hit something, but the greens are still in great shape.   Even at the end of the day they were still rolling pretty good.   That one did bounce a little bit, but I don't think I hit a good putt either.

Q.   (No microphone.)
BRENDON DE JONGE:   Yeah.   Very much so. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
BRENDON DE JONGE:   Yeah, it's exciting.   Any time there is a little bit of fan support, a little bit extra buzz, it's always nice.   Even if it's not always for you, it's nice to hear a little roar or whatever it may be.

Q.   Were there people clapping for you today?
BRENDON DE JONGE:   Yeah, I think people like seeing good golf.   When guys are playing well, people enjoy seeing that.   They applaud for people when they're playing well.

Q.   (No microphone.)
BRENDON DE JONGE:   I have not.   We do know each other, but it will be our first round of golf together. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT