JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 4, 2012
Brendon de Jonge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Nice playing. Just solid all day long?
BRENDON DE JONGE:   Yeah, it was.   Obviously had the hiccup there on 15.   Managed to get it up and down and save one there. 
Yeah, other than that I hit it nicely.

Q.   Will you describe that shot?   I didn't get over there to look at the lie.   Did you try to hit a hard spinner and just nothing underneath it? 
BRENDON DE JONGE:   No, you know, it wasn't a very good lie.   I was trying to get under it, and to be honest I half shanked it.   Was kind of lucky that it caught the lip on the way out. 
Yeah, as I said, it was clean. 

Q.   Back in '07 I believe we played Q‑School together, and I told you after the round that that's the easiest 64 I've ever seen.   62 today.   You lead the TOUR in birdies.   Now, that's twofold:   You got to make a lot of 'em, but you got to play a lot golf.   You love to play golf, don't you?   You play a lot of tournaments. 
BRENDON DE JONGE:   I do.   I love to play.   You know, the problem with that is I made so many birdies and I haven't won, so something else is going on as well. 
I do, I love playing golf.   It's fun to make a lot of birdies. 

Q.   You've checked a lot of those things off on your list.   Keep it going.   That number 62 might get you right on your way to that other thing that you're trying to do right now, win a golf tournament. 
BRENDON DE JONGE:   I hope so anyway.   We'll see what happens. 

Q.   Nobody's made more birdies on the year, 364, than Brendon De Jonge.   Coming into this week you made nine more in the opening round.   What is it about you that enables you to really take advantage of golf courses like today when there are really optimum conditions? 
BRENDON DE JONGE:   I've played a lot golf as well, which adds to it, obviously.   I've made my fair share of birdies and (indiscernible).

Q.   You only missed four cuts this year.   You've been really very consistent.   How do you take consistency and elevate that? 
BRENDON DE JONGE:   I need a few things to go my way.   As long as I keep learning ever time I put myself in a position, I feel like it's a (indiscernible).

Q.   You missed the cut here last year.   What in your game lets you feel like you can go out and win here this time around? 
BRENDON DE JONGE:   I had three weeks off.   I feel very, very rested.   I've got some good practice and I'm feeling good about my game at the moment. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT