DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 5, 2015
Brendon de Jonge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Hard to end the day with a bogey, but still doesn't cover up the fact of a really well played round of golf out of you?  
BRENDON de JONGE: Yeah, I played nicely, hit a lot of good iron shots today, gave myself a lot of chances.  I didn't putt quite as good as yesterday, but I'm very satisfied.   
 Q.  Any reason for the turnaround?  You came into this probably not in the best of form, and suddenly you're going to be among the tournament leaders.  
BRENDON de JONGE: Nothing I can put my finger on.  I've been working hard and not seeing any results.  Hopefully this is the fruits of that.   
 Q.  Sometimes the work you put in a month ago shows up today.  Tell me about the golf course.  You went late-early, did it play easier in the morning?  
BRENDON de JONGE: It did.  We didn't have the wind we did yesterday.  Obviously the greens were a little bit softer and just a little bit smoother, as well.  They're rolling absolutely great.  I expect some good scores today.   
 Q.  We talked about this after your opening round.  But you have so much out there, a possible first PGA Tour win, entering into the BMW and The TOUR Championship, Presidents Cup on the horizon.  How do you formulate that and just concentrate on golf?  
BRENDON de JONGE: It's pretty easy.  If you play well it's going to take care of the rest of it.  You try to do the best you can on the golf course and let the rest take care of itself.   
 Q.  Yesterday 65, Brendon characterized it as surprising.  68 here on day No. 2, how would you assess today?  
BRENDON de JONGE: Solid today.  I actually played really nice.  The putter wasn't quite as good as yesterday, it could have been a good score.  But very pleased, very solid.   
 Q.  You said there were some things that you wanted to work on.  Hit more fairways.  How did some of the ways that you wanted to improve on show up on the second round?  
BRENDON de JONGE: I did, I hit a lot more fairways today and gave myself a lot more chances, unfortunately couldn't make enough of them.   
 Q.  How do you keep going?  You put back-to-back solid rounds together, you need two more.  
BRENDON de JONGE: Yeah, I do.  I feel like if I can hit it like I did today the next two days I'll be in good shape.   
 Q.  Continuation of yesterday?  
BRENDON de JONGE: I actually played much better than I played yesterday.  It was obviously a little bit easier, as well.  But just didn't make the putts that I made yesterday.   
 Q.  When was the last time you received any word from Nick?  
BRENDON de JONGE: Other than just messing around?   
 Q.  An official --  
BRENDON de JONGE: Oh, it's been a while.  It's been a long while.   
 Q.  How much does that play on your mind, if at all, over the last couple of weeks?  
BRENDON de JONGE: The Presidents Cup?  Not at all.  I've put myself so far behind the 8-ball with regard to that.  As I said yesterday, I feel even if I won this week it wouldn't warrant -- even coming close to warranting that.  So that's far from my mind.   
 Q.  How much did yesterday's round kind of feed into -- give you confidence to move forward?  
BRENDON de JONGE: It did.  More than anything else it made me feel like I turned the corner.  As I said yesterday I've been struggling for a while.  I was hoping that yesterday's score sort of helped me turn that corner.   
 Q.  You may not have scored as well today but you said you played better?  
BRENDON de JONGE: Yeah.   
 Q.  Does it give you confidence for the weekend knowing that you've got two rounds?  
BRENDON de JONGE: It does.  I feel much better today than I did yesterday, just because of how I played today.  Yesterday I felt like I kind of got away with it a little bit.  I made a bunch of putts.  So it feels a little more satisfying even today.   
 Q.  What's it going to take for you to win?  
BRENDON de JONGE: It's going to take a lot more good scores.  I think there will be some good ones this afternoon, the greens are still pretty receptive and they're rolling really well.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT