AT&T NATIONAL
June 29, 2012
Brendon de Jonge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  NELSON SILVERIO:   We welcome Brendon DeJonge to the interview room here at the AT&T National.   You followed your 68 yesterday with a 69 today.   Maybe compare the course conditions between yesterday and today and we'll get started. 
BRENDON DeJONGE:   I think it was a little bit softer this morning, obviously hadn't dried out as much.   Had a little less breeze this morning, as well, compared to yesterday afternoon.   But it's drying out very quickly and it's going to be tough this afternoon. 

Q.   Going back to last week, it looks like you putted really well the last three days at Travelers and obviously today.   Has there been a change equipment wise, mentally, just feeling better?
BRENDON DeJONGE:   Mentally maybe, yeah.   I've seen a few more putts go in, which is obviously nice, and breeds a little bit of confidence.   I've always been like that.   I've kind of been a streaky putter, and hopefully it's a long streak. 

Q.   Can you tell us about your round today?   It looked like it was pretty steady throughout. 
BRENDON DeJONGE:   Yeah, it was for the most part.   I didn't drive the ball great but was lucky enough to draw a couple good lies in the rough and able to get it around the green, and I made some nice par saves, which you're going to have to on a golf course this difficult.   You figure you're going to putt a lot of six‑ and eight‑footers for par.   It's like playing a U.S. Open. 

Q.   How hot is it here compared to where you grew up? 
BRENDON DeJONGE:   It got hot, but as I said, not quite the humidity.   It was so still this morning and very, very humid, so it was kind of draining.   It's starting to get just hot now, really, really hot.

Q.   Can you tell us your journey from Zimbabwe to Virginia Tech?   How did that happen, and do you still have close ties there?
BRENDON DeJONGE:   To Virginia Tech?   Yeah, very much so.   I was down in South Florida playing junior golf and got recruited from there and obviously spent four years in Blacksburg.   Yeah, I've got a lot of good friends still there.   I still keep in touch with Jay Hardwick, the golf coach, and become good friends with Frank Beamer.   So yeah, it's nice, it's a tight‑knit community.

Q.   Do you get tired?   This your 19th event and you haven't missed the cut since Bay Hill. 
BRENDON DeJONGE:   When you're as fit as I am, it's easy.   (Laughter.)
Yeah, yeah, I am.   I do.   I've always played a lot, though.   It's what I'm used to.   I do a pretty good job of taking Monday and Tuesdays off, try and get home for a couple days, which breaks it up, which is always nice. 
NELSON SILVERIO:   Brendon, thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT