SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 13, 2012
Brendon de Jonge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  CHRIS REIMER:   Great round today, 8‑under par.   Talk about everything you had working today and being in good position going into the weekend here. 
BRENDON DeJONGE:   Yeah, it was nice.   I actually switched putters after yesterday, and obviously for the better.   I made a couple nice putts early on and managed to keep it going.
CHRIS REIMER:   What did you switch from and to? 
BRENDON DeJONGE:   From a Kombi, one of the big mallets, to just a regular Scotty Cameron.
CHRIS REIMER:   Are you typically finicky with switching clubs or is it something that takes a while? 
BRENDON DeJONGE:   It takes a while.   I switched back to a putter that I used all of last year.   I don't know why I switched, I just did, and it was a mistake obviously.

Q.   Was it because of the speed of the greens?
BRENDON DeJONGE:   You know, I had struggled in the off‑season actually with the putter and just thought I'd change just to try and get a little spark. 

Q.   My understanding is you make a lot of birdies and have for a couple of years now.   I guess that adds to the intrigue of did you see something in the new putter that you thought was making the ball roll better?   And after yesterday you must not have seen that anymore?
BRENDON DeJONGE:   Yes, pretty much.   I tried it in the pro‑am and putted the ball nicely in the pro‑am, made a couple really good putts in the pro‑am and figured I'd give it a go.   And then obviously yesterday made absolutely nothing.   Hit the ball similar to how I hit it today.   The putter was just the difference.

Q.   And with the wind picking up, did that have a factor at all?   Were you able to adjust throughout the day and give yourself just as many good looks no matter what was going on with the wind and stuff?
BRENDON DeJONGE:   Yeah, I did.   I hit the ball solid all day, so obviously I hit it through the wind nicely, which was key obviously, to hit it solid.   And did, I gave myself a lot of good looks. 

Q.   Now you'll likely be towards the end of the day tomorrow where the wind is generally up.   Do you readjust?   How are you going to approach the weekend?
BRENDON DeJONGE:   Yeah, just try and do more of the same.   You've got to play this golf course from the fairway.   I've been able to hit a lot of fairways mostly today.   I'll try and do more of the same. 

Q.   You've been in positions like this before, though.   Do you draw on them to try to do better in new instances, or do you go back and‑‑ does it worry you when you say you've been in position and you haven't closed?   How do you approach each position?
BRENDON DeJONGE:   No, I think it's key to try and take something positive every time you get in this position, try and get a little bit more comfortable.   As you say, I have been in this position a lot, definitely the last two or three years.   I feel like I've learned a lot, so hopefully I'll try and take some of that into tomorrow. 

Q.   Can you talk a little bit about the psychology of continuing to make birdies and shooting a low number?   Sometimes guys actually, they get to a certain point and they kind of know where they are and they get a little nervous.   What's your mindset, and how do you stay aggressive?
BRENDON DeJONGE:   I think it depends how you're playing.   If you're hitting a lot of really good shots, it's easy.   If you feel like you're swinging well, it's easy to keep trying to go forward, keep trying to go forward.   If you've kind of scraped a couple of birdies then it's easy to get a little more defensive.   I've always been a guy that's made a fair few birdies.   I go at a lot of flags.   At times I'll make a lot of soft bogeys because of that.   But no, I think it's the way I play. 

Q.   Getting away from the putting, are there any other changes for the year, any other changes you're working on, change your workout or mindset or anything of that nature?
BRENDON DeJONGE:   I actually believe it or not have started working out a little bit in the off‑season.   Believe it or not.   No, other than that, it's been more of the same.   You know, I'm a guy that likes to take a lot of time off, so I haven't played‑‑ I played the World Cup in China towards the end of November and then hadn't played competitively since then.   So I'm fresh.   I feel really fresh. 

Q.   There's two schools of thought:   Steve Stricker came in and he played quite a bit, Presidents Cup and some December events, and he felt like he was sort of in mid‑season form.   You're talking about being fresh.   Is there a happy medium in there?   Is it better to be fresh?   Is it better to be playing in?
BRENDON DeJONGE:   I think it depends who you are.   I think it's different for different guys.   I like feeling fresh.   Some guys like to feel like they've come in playing a lot.   I think you've got to find what works best for you. 

Q.   You mentioned you've contended.   Do you have different goals this year, different things that maybe you're looking at accomplishing than the first couple years out on TOUR just trying to maybe get your feet wet and understand how it works out here?
BRENDON DeJONGE:   Sure.   Obviously the beginning of every year I sit down and reevaluate goals.   No, I would like to win.   I feel like I've given myself a lot of really good chances to win.   I feel like I'm getting closer and closer.   That's obviously one of the biggest goals for me, and then obviously a couple other little goals, as well.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT