THE HERITAGE
April 23, 2011
Brendon de Jonge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOHN BUSH: We'd like to welcome Brendon de Jonge into the interview room here at the Heritage. 9-under par through three rounds after a 5-under par, 66. Brandon, just one bogey on the card, six birdies, a tremendous round of golf. Let's get your comments.   
 BRENDON DE JONGE: Yeah, I obviously played great. I felt comfortable playing with Blake. He's a good friend of mine.   
 JOHN BUSH: Just comment on that 4-under par, 31, take us through a few of those birdies on the back end.   
 BRENDON DE JONGE: Yeah, I didn't have much going, and then holed it from off the green on 10, to sort of jump start the round a little bit. And made a nice putt on 13. And a nice putt on 16 for birdie, as well, and hit a nice one on 18.  
  
  Q. Is the weather kicking up a little bit, making it a little tougher?  
 BRENDON DE JONGE: Yeah, it is, some. We're getting some wind and it starts swirling around in the trees. It makes it difficult to pick a direction. You have to commit to what you feel.   
  
  Q. You finished your round, you find out you're a stroke off the lead. Surprised that maybe the guys at the end of the field weren't a little lower at that point or are they just facing tough conditions?  
 BRENDON DE JONGE: It is getting tougher. The greens are definitely drying out, as well. It's getting hard to get the ball close to the hole. I thought the lead would be around 12 at the end of the day. It still might be, obviously.  
  
  Q. Does your mindset change, now, if you wind up where you are and 10 stays the number, or if they come back down to you, does your mindset change?  
 BRENDON DE JONGE: No, it's the same mindset. Trying to come out tomorrow and remain patient and see what happens.  
  
  Q. I think you picked up four shots on the back, what was the key to that?  
 BRENDON DE JONGE: I think holing it from off the green on 10, to get the round jump started. And I made a couple of good up-and-downs on the back, as well, to keep the round going, keep the momentum.  
  
  Q. How has your season gone so far, have you been pleased with the way you've been playing?  
 BRENDON DE JONGE: Yes and no. It's been steady. I haven't had the good results that I would have liked, but overall it's been very steady.  
  
  Q. Did you feel like this might be a good week for you coming in?  
 BRENDON DE JONGE: I've always loved it down here. I love the whole vibe of the tournament. I love the whole island. So, yeah, I feel very comfortable here.  
  
  Q. What is it about the golf course that you like?  
 BRENDON DE JONGE: It's not just the golf course, it's the whole vibe that goes with the tournament. It's the laid-back feel, nice family atmosphere. I've got my family with me. You step foot here and you feel comfortable.  
  
  Q. Your teaching pro is based in Charleston. Did you see him this week? And if you did, what were you working on?  
 BRENDON DE JONGE: I didn't see him this week -- I ran into him this week. We didn't work on anything. I saw him in San Antonio last week. We worked on a few things trying to get the driver straightened out. So far so good this week.  
  
  Q. You are one of the few golfers to birdie No. 18 today. Tell me about your second shot, what was going through your head?  
 BRENDON DE JONGE: Well, I had a really good yardage on 18, which you need into it that flag. I hit my second just a little bit thin, which if it just carried the bunker, it would have been just perfect. So obviously I was a little bit lucky.   
 JOHN BUSH: Thank you. Play well tomorrow. It should be fun.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT