THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 29, 2010
Brendon de Jonge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DOUG MILNE: Brendon, thanks for joining us for a few minutes after a successful Round One, 5-under, 65 today. Just some comments on the round and how the course treated you. Obviously fairly well.  
 BRENDON de JONGE: Yeah, as I was saying earlier, I think the course was exactly what we expected. It's gonna give up U.S. Open low scores for sure.  
 Fairly soft out there, and conducive to being aggressive.  
 DOUG MILNE: Okay. We'll go ahead and take a few questions.   
  
  Q. How does this course suit big hitters? Traditionally, before they extended some of the holes, it was mostly for a golfer who can spot his drives. Now you can get out there and drive it on a couple holes. How does that fit you?  
 BRENDON de JONGE: Fits me good. There's a lot of cross bunkers there that if you can carry it 275, 280 you can fly it over the cross bunkers into the wider parts of the fairway.   
 So that's definitely beneficial in that way.  
  
  Q. What are the chances of 5-under, 65 leading, do you think? Like you say, there's gonna be a ton of red numbers out there.   
 BRENDON de JONGE: I will say slim to none. You know, it's nice to be sitting at 5-under, but I can definitely see 7-, 8-, 9-under being shot today by someone.   
  
  Q. Any reason, do you think, Brendon, that the afternoon scores may go a little lower?  
 BRENDON de JONGE: Um, no, I don't think there would be any reason. I just wouldn't be at all surprised to see someone shoot that score. Just, you know, I think familiarity with the golf course. I think it's out there for sure.   
  
  Q. Can you talk a little bit about the weather conditions? And if it stays like this, do you think come this weekend that the scores will stay very low?  
 BRENDON de JONGE: Yeah, I think so. It doesn't feel like anything is gonna get real firm out there. Guys can stay aggressive. Greens are still very, very receptive.   
 They're the perfect holing speeds; you don't have to worry about too many putts getting away from you.  
 So, yeah, I think scores are gonna continue to be pretty low this week.   
  
  Q. How many birdies did you have? We can get it off the card, I guess. And how many Tech fans are out there pulling you one?   
 BRENDON de JONGE: I made seven birdies. There are a ton of Tech fans out there. Everywhere you look, you see orange and maroon. It's fun. It's definitely nice to play so close to where I went to school.   
  
  Q. Since you played your practice round and you got a little bit of a feel for the course, were there some holes today that you think you played better than you thought you would have coming in?  
 BRENDON de JONGE: Um, I don't think so. I think we got a pretty good feel for the course in the practice round. You know, we had a similar wind direction today, so we didn't have to change the game plan from that regard.   
 No, I wouldn't say so.   
  
  Q. Any hole that you thought you might have done better on that might have got away?   
 BRENDON de JONGE: Um, yeah, you can always look back and think about shots you left out there. That's the way golf is.  
 I made a couple tough bogeys, but I made some good birdies on some good holes to make up for them.   
  
  Q. With the Tech fans out there, you played really well in Charlotte, too, where you're living now. Do you enjoy that kind of support?   
 BRENDON de JONGE: Yeah. It's always great to look around and see familiar faces, people that are pulling for you. Yeah, a little bit of added enjoyment for sure.   
 DOUG MILNE: Okay. Brendon, thanks for your time. We appreciate it. Keep up the good work.   
 BRENDON de JONGE: Thanks.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT