THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY MORGAN STANLEY
June 5, 2010
Brendon de Jonge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Bogey free. You said it. Even though it took a long time to get it in there, that's a fun day, isn't it?   
 BRENDON DE JONGE: Yeah, you know, a 65, doesn't matter how long it takes, it's always fun.  
  
  Q. Tell me about this golf course and what it was like with the stopping and starting because you stayed consistent. And tell me about that stretch 7 through 9.   
 BRENDON DE JONGE: Obviously, it's a long golf course. It's a slog when it's this wet. You can expect it, though. We were told we're going to have one of those days. You do what you can with it.   
 And then, yeah, I made a couple nice putts 7 through 9. Hit one close on 9 and got things going there.   
  
  Q. Tell me about this golf course overall. With all the rain that we have gotten over the last four days, how have the greens seemed to stay in such good shape? Because it didn't look like they were very bumpy.   
 BRENDON DE JONGE: No, the greens are so great. Paul Latshaw, the superintendent out here, he's done an unbelievable job. As much rain as we've had on this golf course, it's still in immaculate condition.   
  
  Q. How good does it feel for you to be able to put up a 65 on a course like this with Jack Nicklaus' name attached to it?   
 BRENDON DE JONGE: It's pretty special. Any time his name is attached to anything, to play good on it is great. It's a nice feeling.  
  
  Q. Most important thing. What time did you get up this morning, and how long have you been here? How many meals have you gotten to eat today? Me and you, we're not scared of food.   
 BRENDON DE JONGE: We've got to eat. I think I had a six o'clock wakeup call. I got my meals in. I made sure I got my meals in.   
  
  Q. That's what I'm talking about. Great 65, and a good position going into Sunday. Remember, keep having fun out there, brother.   
 BRENDON DE JONGE: Thanks. Appreciate it.   
  
  Q. When you're playing with another young guy that's also hitting the ball well, do you just feed off of that?   
 BRENDON DE JONGE: Yeah, he's obviously a great player and a lot of fun to watch. Yeah, you do. You feel yourself feeding off that a little bit.   
  
  Q. Being on the Nationwide Tour, have you played Columbus before?   
 BRENDON DE JONGE: Yeah, I played Columbus a couple of years ago.   
  
  Q. Is this the first time to these grounds?   
 BRENDON DE JONGE: No. I was here 2002 to watch, kind of watch the tournament. We were playing the National Championship here.   
  
  Q. Who was the -- who did you follow? Did you walk around at all?   
 BRENDON DE JONGE: Yeah, we watched Tiger play some. I think it was the year Furyk won. So we walked some with Furyk as well.   
  
  Q. At that age, can you -- could you imagine yourself one day being here?   
 BRENDON DE JONGE: Yeah, I mean, that's obviously what you dream of and what you aspire to. So, yeah, you could see that.   
  
  Q. I wanted to ask about playing such a long weekend here with all the delays, qualifier on Monday, and then St. Jude, too, and then you go to the west coast for the Open hopefully.   
 BRENDON DE JONGE: Hopefully so. It's tough, but we knew it was going to be a long day today, and you deal with it the best you can.   
  
  Q. Just schedule-wise in general, that's not something you want to ideally have to do, I think.   
 BRENDON DE JONGE: Ideally, you don't. But we don't get to write that down, write those rules. Like I say, you deal with what you can.   
  
  Q. How do you deal with it?   
 BRENDON DE JONGE: You try and stay patient and pace yourself. It's going to be a long day, long week. Just take everything in stride.   
  
  Q. How important was it to get the round in today, though, so you're not going to play more?   
 BRENDON DE JONGE: That was very important. You know, it's a big long golf course, and it would be a tough golf course to walk more than 18 holes.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT