QUAIL HOLLOW CHAMPIONSHIP
May 2, 2010
Brendon de Jonge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. First of all, unbelievable final round. You have to be happy with that finish. 
 BRENDON DE JONGE: Yeah, ecstatic. Obviously I told myself to make three pars on the last three to have some sort of chance.

 Q. How about the way you played that 18th hole? ShotLink had your drive 345 yards, and you bravely took it down the left-hand side. 
 BRENDON DE JONGE: It was more of a pull than bravery, but it worked out all right. It's nice coming in with a short iron to that hole. 

 Q. You also had an eagle at the 14th. Tell us about that. 
 BRENDON DE JONGE: Well, they had the tees up for us today. I hit a hybrid in there about 12 feet behind the hole, and I made a putt there, which was nice, got things going.

 Q. What was going through your mind when you realized you were playing in some sort of zone?
 BRENDON DE JONGE: Everything was kind of going my way, and I realized that it had an opportunity to be a special round, so I kept things going and stayed in the present.

 Q. Is it any different when you're teeing off a little bit further back in the pack as opposed to one of the leaders? Does the mindset change at all?
 BRENDON DE JONGE: I think so. I think you realize you're a little bit ahead of the leaders and you can get out there and try to post something. Yeah, definitely a little bit of a different mindset.

 Q. What hole specifically do you think helped turn things around?
 BRENDON DE JONGE: Probably 12. The pin was really difficult down there, and I hit a real good drive and hit one in there close and made the putt and got things going from there.

 Q. So you're sort of in a holding pattern right now?
 BRENDON DE JONGE: Yeah, I did what I can, and I'm waiting to see. 

 Q. You live here now full-time. Is it a special feeling having a great tournament like that here in Charlotte?
 BRENDON DE JONGE: Yeah, it's great. I put myself in a good position last year and couldn't finish it off. A little better redemption this year definitely.

 Q. How many tickets did you have to come up for the tournament?
 BRENDON DE JONGE: I let my wife handle most of that.

 Q. You mentioned it was kind of a different mindset. Now can you just kind of sit here and wait to see what happens?
 BRENDON DE JONGE: It's not really tough because I've just got to sit and wait and see what happens.

 Q. How do you think the course played today as opposed to the first three days?
 BRENDON DE JONGE: Difficult mostly because of the swirling wind. Winds were up a little bit more than they had been earlier. Yeah, we had some tough winds.

 Q. You shot a 6-under today?
 BRENDON DE JONGE: Yeah, I did.

 Q. How did it play more difficult, and yet your score --
 BRENDON DE JONGE: I drove the ball a little bit better today, and my misses were in the right places. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT