AT&T BYRON NELSON
May 30, 2015
Brendon de Jonge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about your round a little bit?   At one point you had four birdies in a row.   That's pretty strong.  
BRENDON DE JONGE:   Made a couple nice putts in the middle of the front-9 there to get something going.   I felt like I played solid all day.   It was disappointing to finish with a bogey.  
   
 Q.   How is the course playing and particularly No. 14, notorious 14?  
BRENDON DE JONGE:   You know, obviously there's only so much they can do with all the weather we've had.   So obviously very, very wet out there and, you know, I don't think there's any chance for it to dry out.   It's just been relentless.  
But in saying that, the greens are still rolling wonderfully well and, you know, I think the greens staff has done a great job to get it to where it is.  
   
 Q.   I'm not sure what the leading score is going to be.   You got to feel good about the momentum you have going into tomorrow.  
BRENDON DE JONGE:   Very much so.   From where I was the start of the day to where I am now, it's obviously a big step in the right direction.   Hopefully take this into tomorrow.   I think it's probably going to take another score around that tomorrow to get it done.  
   
 Q.   You talk a little bit about the stumble on 18 coming in?  
BRENDON DE JONGE:   I pulled it a little bit off the tee.   Kind of inexcusable with the wind we had.   It's probably the easiest wind you can get for that hole.   I hit some bad shots throughout the round.  
   
 Q.   14th hole, have you ever had another tournament that you played at where you had to have something like that happen?  
BRENDON DE JONGE:   No, I don't think so.   I don't think so.   I never played a golf course this wet, either.  
   
 Q.   Brendon, you've only missed three greens the last two rounds.   You must have the irons dialed in.  
BRENDON DE JONGE:   Yeah.   Yeah.   The irons have been good.   To be honest, I've driven the ball well for the most part.   When it's this wet you start miss something fairways and it's going to be difficult to get the ball on the green.   I've driven the ball nicely.  
   
 Q.   How is the putting?  
BRENDON DE JONGE:   It's been good.   Yeah, it's been steady.  
   
 Q.   62 today.  
BRENDON DE JONGE:   I think it was 63.  
   
 Q.   I screwed up with all the pars.  
BRENDON DE JONGE:   No, everything was good today.  
   
 Q.   Do you have a number in your mind for tomorrow?  
BRENDON DE JONGE:   Around what I shot today, as I said, to get over the hump tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT