TURNING STONE RESORT CHAMPIONSHIP
September 21, 2007
Brendon de Jonge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   STEWART MOORE:  We'd like to welcome our current leader, Brendan de Jonge to the interview room here at the Turning Stone Resort Championship.  Back-to-back rounds of 66.  And you came into this week, you're tied for 8th in birdie average on the PGA Tour.  You certainly haven't disappointed.  10 birdies, two eagles in two rounds.  I assume the putter's treating you nicely?   
 BRENDON de JONGE:  Yeah, yeah, I've rolled it well for the first two rounds.   
 STEWART MOORE:  First two rounds you were paired with your former Virginia Tech teammate, Johnson Wagner.  This is actually the fifth time in the last eight rounds you guys have been paired together.  And I believe, if my math is correct, you're 19 under in those five rounds.  Is there a great little comfort level out there playing with a friend?   
 BRENDON de JONGE:  Oh, yeah, I think any time you're out there and you're comfortable, it makes it that much easier.  It's one less thing to worry about.   
 STEWART MOORE:  Questions for Brendon.   
  
  Q.  That pairing hasn't been rigged in any way, has it?   
 BRENDON de JONGE:  No, I don't think so (laughing).   
  
  Q.  Any key to your just your mindset coming into this week, and how you've carried it out through two rounds?   
 BRENDON de JONGE:  Well, the position that I've put myself in coming into these last seven events, I have to play well.  You know, I've pretty much got nothing to lose.  It's almost, in essence, a seven-week tour school for me.  So I have to play well, and it's nice to get off to a good start.   
  
  Q.  What was it like out there playing with Johnson?  Did you guys chat about stuff out there?  Was there a lot of talk about?  What do you guys talk about?   
 BRENDON de JONGE:  Well, neither of us have done very well in the casino yet, so there is a little bit of discussing strategy for maybe this afternoon.   
 Yeah, you know, we're both very comfortable out there playing.  So a little bit of chatter, some things that shouldn't be mentioned in here.  But yeah, we had a really good time.   
  
  Q.  Is this the first time you've led after two rounds?   
 BRENDON de JONGE:  I believe it is.   
  
  Q.  How does it feel?   
 BRENDON de JONGE:  It feels great.  I don't know if I'll be leading at the end of the day.  There are still a lot of guys out there, and it's definitely the golf course is there for the taking at the moment and being in such good shape.  But obviously, I'm feeling great right now.   
  
  Q.  Difference between playing the afternoon and the morning?   
 BRENDON de JONGE:  You know, the greens are just a little bit more receptive.  You know, but on the other hand, the ball's not gone quite as far.  It was a little cool this morning.  But you know, when the golf course is this good there's not that much difference.   
  
  Q.  Did you have any thoughts on the drug testing policy that they're going to come up in the spring?  Do you feel strongly either way?   
 BRENDON de JONGE:  You know, no, I don't feel strongly one way or the other.  I don't know if it's necessary but, obviously, they're going to go ahead and do it.  They can test me all they want.  I'm not too worried about it.   
 STEWART MOORE:  Would you mind briefly going through your eagle at 5 and then your 5 birdies.   
 BRENDON de JONGE:  I hit a 3-wood in on 5 just on the right fringe, and made a nice putt there.  Then hit it into about a foot with the wedge on 7.  Hit another wedge on 10.  About five feet left of the hole, made that one.   
 12, a par 5, I was just left of the green for two and got that up-and-down.  Then hit a 7-iron about 20 feet behind the hole on 15.  Made a good putt there.  And hit a good little lob wedge in on 18 to about three feet.   
  
  Q.  Johnson mentioned one of the reasons you might be playing so well this week, is you both hit it pretty long, and the golf course suits your game, would you agree with that?   
 BRENDON de JONGE:  Yeah, there are obviously big fairways out here which suits both of our eyes.  And we both hit it a good distance.  There are a few bunkers out here, if you hit it long, you can carry them and not worry about it.  I think that's definitely had something to do with did.   
  
  Q.  Is the course as easy as you guys are making it look out there, or are you just beating up on it that well?   
 BRENDON de JONGE:  I wouldn't say it's easy.  It's in wonderful shape.  If you drive it in the fairways, as good as these fairways are, you're going to have a good chance to get it close because the greens are still pretty receptive.   
 But if we get a little wind out here, there is enough undulation on these greens where you'll have to stop and think about it a little bit more.  Not just take dead aim.   
 STEWART MOORE:  Great playing so far, good luck this weekend.   
 BRENDON de JONGE:  Thanks very much.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT