TURNING STONE RESORT CHAMPIONSHIP
September 20, 2007
Brendon de Jonge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Nice playing today.  I know you didn't like the last hole.  But tell us about the last, and then we'll talk about the good things.   
 BRENDON de JONGE:  I thought I hit a good tee shot, and I just stayed in the left rough, and got a big fly off my second shot.  Missed it in the long stretch.  Tough downhill putt and unfortunately couldn't get down in two.   
  
  Q.  Are you hard on yourself?  Are you going to beat yourself up on that one?   
 BRENDON de JONGE:  I don't know.  I'm going to look at all the positives that happened before that one.  It was obviously a good round, but I need a few more of them.   
  
  Q.  Talk about that - talk about a great round to start.   
 BRENDON de JONGE:  You know, I'm in the position right now where I need to play well for the rest of the year, obviously.  Pretty much got a seven week tour school.  So it's nice to get off to a good start the first one of these seven.   
  
  Q.  Seven week tour school, the fall series, Something new, but it's an exciting time for guys like you.   
 BRENDON de JONGE:  Sure, it's great.  It is the point of the year where we know we're going to get into an extended amount in a row.  Whereas earlier in the year we get one in a row, two in a row.  So it's nice.  It nice to sit down and play the schedule a little bit.   
  
  Q.  Time off coming in - good thing, bad thing?   
 BRENDON de JONGE:  Need it, need it definitely.  A couple of weeks.  It's different for different people.  I'm one of those guys that needs the time off, so definitely good thing for me.   
  
  Q.  One of the things I'm starting to realize talking to guys is guys who are grinders guys who play a lot and are forced to take some time off, not necessarily a bad thing?   
 BRENDON de JONGE:  No, not at all.  You know, you've kind of got to find what's best for you.   
  
  Q.  The golf course, how do you like the golf course?   
 BRENDON de JONGE:  Oh, definitely one of the best we've played all year condition-wise and great layout as well.   
  
  Q.  You play late-early, some guys love that.  You like the fact that you get some momentum going?   
 BRENDON de JONGE:  It's a great thing when you play well the first round and you can pretty much get up and start right where you left off.   
  
  Q.  Well, not where you left off at 18.   
  
 BRENDON de JONGE:  But the rest of the round, definitely (smiling).   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT