ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 24, 2015
Brendon de Jonge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Three birdies and a bogey, part of a Friday 74.   Brendon, how satisfied are you with the effort? 
BRENDON DE JONGE:   I'm satisfied.   I gave myself a lot of chances.   Just didn't make a fast start? 

Q.   What were the conditions like out here as opposed to what we saw on Thursday? 
BRENDON DE JONGE:   Obviously, we had the best of the greens today, but the golf course was playing pretty long.   The ball didn't go very far this morning, and I don't think it's going to dry out much till Sunday.

Q.   Heading into the weekend, how do you continue to try playing well in the tournament, which appears it's going to be a low number to win? 
BRENDON DE JONGE:   Yeah, exactly.   You have to stay aggressive.   Obviously, there are going to be a bunch of birdies this weekend, and the golf course isn't going to be able to firm up.

Q.   How about the prospect knowing you have to go low?   You've made a lot of birdies on TOUR?
BRENDON DE JONGE:   Yeah, obviously, but I've made a lot of bogeys as well because I haven't won, but I'm excited about it.   My game's in good shape, so hopefully it will keep going.

Q.   Picked up right where you left off yesterday about birdieing the first two holes, and then things kind of gave that one back.   But just talk about starting so fast? 
BRENDON DE JONGE:   Yeah, it was nice.   Nice to make a couple birdies on early on, and, unfortunately, I didn't make any putts.   I had plenty of opportunities, but I just couldn't get the ball in the hole today.

Q.   The pin placements today, what was that like?   A lot of people talked yesterday that the greens were difficult to read. 
BRENDON DE JONGE:   Yeah, there were some tough pins out there today, but still as soft as it is, if you've got a good number, you can be pretty aggressive.

Q.   Going into the weekend, being one of the last groups as of now, what is that like? 
BRENDON DE JONGE:   Oh, it's good.   Obviously, got a good chance for this weekend, but it's going to take making a bunch of birdies this weekend, and the golf course isn't going to be able to firm up.

Q.   Talk about your second and third shots, it seemed like it was tricky.   You made it look easy, but what club was that from under the tree on 12? 
BRENDON DE JONGE:   I didn't have much of a second chance.   I was just trying to leave myself an angle.   (Indiscernible) but it came out all right.   I managed to save par.

Q.   What was your second club? 
BRENDON DE JONGE:   A 4‑iron.   Just a soft cut around there, yeah.   Obviously, that was the one the ball was sitting on a root.   I didn't know it, thank goodness.   It actually came out all right.

Q.   I think it was two straight pars after the two birdies and bogey.   How did it feel to get the birdie on 17? 
BRENDON DE JONGE:   It was nice to make one finishing there.   I had plenty of opportunities.   I just didn't make any putts.   As I said, my game feels like it's in good shape going into the weekend.

Q.   Are you looking for a number right now for this tournament? 
BRENDON DE JONGE:   I don't think so.   It's going to take a bunch of more birdies.

Q.   It's a quick turnaround for you.   You didn't get to the hotel until 7:00, 7:30.   Did you get any rest? 
BRENDON DE JONGE:   Yeah, I got plenty of rest.   I went back and watched the basketball game.

Q.   Who did you watch? 
BRENDON DE JONGE:   I watched the Pelicans play the WARRIORS.   Made it until the end of the third quarter.

Q.   The Pelicans won (Laughing). 
BRENDON DE JONGE:   The Pelicans won?   Well, they won three quarters.

Q.   Shocked at the headlines this morning? 
BRENDON DE JONGE:   Yeah, I was a bit surprised to see that.   But, no, I got plenty of rest.

Q.   Good to come back to the course today? 
BRENDON DE JONGE:   Yeah, very much so.

Q.   You haven't had a lot of success here.   You've made only two cuts.   Do you feel you're getting more comfortable after several times around? 
BRENDON DE JONGE:   No, not really.   To be honest, I've never been a huge fan of Pete Dye golf courses.   I've always found them pretty difficult.   One of the reasons I come back here is I love the city.   I love what Zurich has done with the tournament.   I think they've been a great sponsor, so it made sense to come back.

Q.   Are you going to reserve judgment until after Sunday of how you really feel about this course now? 
BRENDON DE JONGE:   Yeah, I'll wait until then to say much more about it.

Q.   You've had a lot of people pulling for you.   Do you get a sense from the galleries that they want you to get that first win? 
BRENDON DE JONGE:   Yeah, I think so.   Obviously, a lot of people like an underdog, and if you haven't won you're still kind of an underdog.   But, yeah, I get that feeling a little bit.

Q.   Are you aware of how people have won their first tournament here or the winners here have gone on to do pretty amazing things? 
BRENDON DE JONGE:   Yeah, sure.   I mean, if you look at a bunch of guys that got their first win, obviously, Billy Horschel did, Billy's got a FedExCup, and Justin's got a major.   So, yeah.

Q.   This is your 225th tournament, I believe?
BRENDON DE JONGE:   Okay.

Q.   Something like that.   Has it ever weighed on you that I haven't won yet?   Or do you just let it go and keep playing? 
BRENDON DE JONGE:   Yeah, pretty much.   I think, obviously, I would like to win and get the monkey off your back.   But when it's your time, it will be your time. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT