ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 23, 2015
Brendon de Jonge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Bogey‑free 64 here on Thursday.   The lowest round of the year for you in 2015.   How pleased are you with that number?   
BRENDON de JONGE:   Yeah, very pleased.   Obviously, we had perfect scoring conditions and I got to place the ball, but I played nicely.  
   
 Q.   What were the conditions like before the delay and then after?   
BRENDON de JONGE:   Absolutely ideal before the delay, and then obviously a little muddy after that rain came through.   But still the course was there for the taking.  
   
 Q.   What adjustments do you make when there are potential for mud balls and the little things that could creep into it?   
BRENDON de JONGE:   You've obviously got to hit the fairways, but the TOUR luckily let us play that today, so that was the key out there today.  
   
 Q.   Last couple of tournaments, couple of top 20 results for you.   What is clicking for you at this point?   
BRENDON de JONGE:   I feel like my game is solid at the moment.   I'm hitting everything fairly well.   Nothing exceptional, but it feels like everything's kind of turning in the right direction.  
   
 Q.   How do you keep it going into Friday?   
BRENDON de JONGE:   Obviously, we have the luck of getting an early start tomorrow, so hopefully get up and get right after it.  
   
 Q.   8‑under 64 in the first round, tied for first.   
BRENDON de JONGE:   Yeah, obviously a nice position to be in.   It was fun.   It was a good round today.  
   
 Q.   Bogey‑free.   Like you played two different courses during the day, before the rain and after the rain?  
BRENDON de JONGE:   Yeah, as I said, it was definitely a little bit different.   It was pretty muddy out there and a little tricky if you missed a cup greens.  
   
 Q.   What about the mud conditions after the rain?   
BRENDON de JONGE:   Yeah, it got soft.   Obviously, they had a ton of rain last week, and obviously any rain we had today was going to get pretty soft, pretty quickly.  
   
 Q.   You shot 64, so you probably weren't in the rough very much today.   If you were, how was it?   
BRENDON de JONGE:   You know, actually I think I hit the fairways and in the fairway bunker, so I didn't have to deal with the mud.   But you could see it good in the rough.   You didn't have to figure out which way the ball was going.  
   
 Q.   So 7‑under on the par‑4s; you really owned that part of the course today?  
BRENDON de JONGE:   Yeah, I left a couple out is there today, but made up for it on the par‑4s.  
   
 Q.   Did you feel you could go even lower?   Most of those scoring opportunities are on the par‑5s, you played the par‑4s so well?  
BRENDON de JONGE:   I think everybody finishes a round and thinks they could do a little better.   But anytime I shoot a 64 I'm not going to get greedy.  
   
 Q.   How was it dealing with the short weather delay?   Not many people went low this afternoon.   
BRENDON de JONGE:   Yeah, as I said, it got a little tricky after the rain, and it got muddy out there.   The course was wet before we started, so hopefully we'll have no more the rest of the week.  
   
 Q.   Going forward, what are you looking forward to?   
BRENDON de JONGE:   I think it's going to take a bunch more low numbers.   Typically it takes pretty low to win this tournament, so got to keep making a bunch of birdies.  
   
 Q.   How do you keep your concentration between an hour and 20 minute rain delay?   Is it tough to do, especially when you've got a good round going?   
BRENDON de JONGE:   No, not really.   I think we get used to it.   It's part of what we do.   We have so many weather delays, it's just one of those things.  
   
 Q.   One thing you proved today is you don't have to be a long hitter even when the course is wet, because I know you're not real high on the driving distance, but you struck the ball really well.   Was that the key today, to make sure you got it on the green when you wanted to?   
BRENDON de JONGE:   Yeah, I guess.   If you hit it in a bunch of fairways, you had to out there.   Because if you start missing and you don't get to clean it, you have to deal with the mud and it becomes pretty tricky.  
   
 Q.   Were you happy with that tee shot on 18?   It looked like you felt you could have done just a little better.   
BRENDON de JONGE:   My last hole?   
   
 Q.   Your last hole.   
BRENDON de JONGE:   No, I was very pleased.   I hit it exactly where I wanted to.  
   
 Q.   What about your impressions of the course overall?   Three more days, do you feel like it suits your game enough to contend?   
BRENDON de JONGE:   Truthfully, I've never played that well here.   I love the city, I love the vibe of the city, but I've never played great here, and I wanted to add it to the schedule this year and try to improve a little bit.  
   
 Q.   What was the difference do you think today?   Just keep getting it in play?   You said you never played well before.   
BRENDON de JONGE:   Yeah, I guess so.   Probably so.   I hit it on a lot of fairways and gave myself a lot of chances from there.   
   
 Q.   In the past have you hit that many fairways when you played here?   
BRENDON de JONGE:   I couldn't remember to be honest.   I'm sorry.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT