ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 25, 2014
Erik Compton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   That par save at 15 got you going?   
ERIK COMPTON:   I made a great par there.   I looked over at you and gave you a little bit of a wave.   I felt like I hit the ball really well today.   I had a lot of opportunities for birdie.   So to make the birdie on 16, and then the birdie 17 that's a tough hole.   It seemed like on the last hole we had a lot of things going on.   
But, yeah, it's a course that if you get it going, you can birdie every hole out here.   You know guys are going to shoot low.   So when you start missing some putts, you get a little bit frustrated.   But my caddie gave me two good reads and said to hang in there and you'll be able to execute.  
   
 Q.   You said yesterday patience was the key, to be patient with yourself.   I think it was evident out there today you were.   
ERIK COMPTON:   Yeah, I got a little down on myself when I hit the pot bunker and had to chip out.   I said this round could go south real quick.   Then to get up‑and‑down and really have a chance to shoot 67 coming down the stretch was a good day.  
   
 Q.   Obviously, Ben at 15‑under par, you're five shots back, but you're in good position heading into the weekend.   
ERIK COMPTON:   Yeah, somebody's going to go bananas over the weekend, especially with the way the course is playing.   You just have to put yourself in position, and come Sunday, if you can make a bunch of birdies on the back nine, you may win.   
   
 Q.   A solid Friday here for you, Erik.   How would you break down a 4‑under par 68?   You're in the second round.   
ERIK COMPTON:   Yeah, great ball striking day today.   I was able to execute the putt on 17, 18, I really hit a good shot on 16.   So I was really patient, hit the ball really well.   Had a lot of opportunities and just have to get up and try to do it again tomorrow.   It's going to take two low ones, I think.   It's anybody's golf tournament.   It's evident somebody shot 62 out there on Thursday, so, you know, I'm in a good position going into the weekend and just got to continue making birdies.  
   
 Q.   When you tee off this afternoon and you see you're 8, 9, 10 back, how does that affect your mindset, if at all?   
ERIK COMPTON:   I'm just playing my game, so I'm just basically trying to hit fairways and hit greens and trying to make as many putts as I can.   I didn't feel like I had a great putting round today.   I left a lot out there on the front nine.   But you're going to have a stretch in the tournament where you're not making anything.   So hopefully during the weekend I have a good stretch and pour some putts in.  
   
 Q.   What do you look forward to the most over the next two days?   
ERIK COMPTON:   I always look forward to competition and playing games with myself out there and trying to figure out how to get my body through the round.   It's very hot out here, so Victor, my caddie and I, did a great job of hydrating and eating, and it's all about preparation tonight and on Saturday night.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT