WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
April 30, 2013
Erik Compton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MARK STEVENS:   We'd like to welcome Erik Compton.   Erik, if you want to give us some general thoughts on your week in Charlotte and your thoughts coming into this event. 
ERIK COMPTON:   Yeah, Charlotte's obviously got a lot of history.   This is a great golf course.   Kind of similar to where I went to school in Georgia, a lot of the golf courses are like this.   We have good weather this week, so not too hot.   I played early this morning and just looking forward to a good week.   Obviously, got off to a good start this week being here with you guys, and then tonight going to go to the minor league game and throw out the pitch which is going to be a lot of fun. 
MARK STEVENS:   Can you go into the reasoning behind the first pitch? 
ERIK COMPTON:   Well, obviously you've seen some of the campaigns that I've done over last year with Donate Life and my continued efforts to grow the awareness of organ donation and getting people to understand the importance of becoming an organ donor.   Also the fact that I've had two heart transplants and playing the TOUR and been playing pretty good this year make it's even more exciting. 
I remember earlier in Tampa this year, I met a family that was watching just the golf tournament, and I had a green ribbon band, which is our organ donation awareness band.   They asked me why am I wearing that, and I thought they were joking.   So I said, well, I'm actually a heart transplant recipient, and so they were really taken back because they were a donor family. 
So it just goes to show how important each week it is for me to share my story and to educate people to sign up to become an organ donor through our website, Donatelife.net.   Not only that, just being an inspiration for other people and also I've been inspired this year by meeting other recipients and other people waiting for transplants.

Q.   Erik, you played here once before last year; is that right? 
ERIK COMPTON:   Uh‑huh.

Q.   And how was that experience? 
ERIK COMPTON:   It was tough last year.   I remember the golf course played really, really tough.   First time being here, I think there are some tricky greens out there and some tee shots that are tough if you're not used to playing out here.   So I look forward to trying to get a little revenge on the course this year.

Q.   Can you talk a little bit about‑‑ I know the organ transplant is very important to you, but obviously, your career has been important to you too.   Talk about how you've been playing this year and just kind of the ups and downs of what's been a good year for you all together? 
ERIK COMPTON:   Right.   Early in the year I played really well.   Also regaining my card through Q‑school was a big confidence boost.   I guess it's just golf.   I started off the season pretty good, and I've missed the last three cuts.   Some of them have been pretty close, and you've just got to keep grinding it out it seems like. 
You look at what Billy Horschel is doing, there are not many guys playing as good as he has this year, and he came from the same graduating class in Q‑School that I did.   I think there are a lot of us that are inspired by his play.   As a matter of fact, before he went on this tear, he shot 87 with me on the final group at Arnold Palmer, and he just kind of laughed it off.   So you just never know when your tournament's going to be. 
Earlier in the year at Honda, that was a tournament that could have gone my way and next thing you know you're set for two years.   So I look at what he's done and he's been knocking on the door and finally he won last week.   And there are other tournaments left this season, so hopefully I can, if not win, have some good showings again.

Q.   When you're playing well, what is the key to your game?   I know I have read some quotes where you've said you could be your own worst enemy sometimes and you're a perfectionist.   What is the key for you playing well this year? 
ERIK COMPTON:   Probably just acceptance of what my game has.   I think last year during this swing I tried to change a little bit of my swing to fit the golf courses.   It seems like we have a few courses that are out here that are fade bias and also that are draw bias.   This swing seems to be more draw bias.   Doesn't really fit my eye, but you've got to figure out how to take some 3‑woods out. 
I think it's all about the tee shot and putting out here on this TOUR, so you can get it in the fairway out here, which I think will help a lot of guys being that it's soft this week.   Then we'll see with the greens.   If somebody can you get a hot putter, that's just how it is. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT