ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 25, 2011
Erik Compton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You're smiling in your Fly Emirates shirt, how tell me how it went out there for you. 
 ERIK COMPTON: Today I was a little sleepy, didn't get much sleep last night but then I got a good up-and-down -- after yesterday's round, I hit 13 greens and I just went to bed and I thought, I didn't get anything up-and-down. None of the holes I missed greens at did I get up-and-down. 
 So today I came out a little earlier and did some chips and got some good chips and it was a totally different golf course from what I played yesterday. 
 So today you could play more strategy golf. Yesterday was just hit it as far as you can down there and try to avoid the wind. And I've had a hot putter all week. I've been reading the greens pretty well. And you know, it's just -- you know, it's just a good round today and hopefully continue to do that this week. 

 Q. What does this mean for you, a guy in position like yourself taking advantage of an opportunity this early in the season?
 ERIK COMPTON: Well, you know, I mean, like I said, it's the first two rounds. So put yourself in a good position. I'm in a great spot. And then just try to do the same thing on the weekend. For me, this is a process. I have struggled on weekends, so if I can continue to have my strength going and a good putter, I feel like I can play well. But you know, I've got to do it before I can say it. 

 Q. You didn't sleep well because you were pissed you were 3-under at one point and shot 75?
 ERIK COMPTON: A little that, and there was a party going on next door. When I knocked on the door at 4:00 in the morning they said, "Are you serious?"
And I said, "Hell, yes, I'm serious, knock it off."

 Q. What time? 
 ERIK COMPTON: About 4:00 in the morning. 

 Q. Considering that you played that well after the party, you may want to go to the party next door --
 ERIK COMPTON: Just another night. I'm a tosser and turner, anyway. But any time this guy is around, something good happens, right. 

 Q. When I was at Memorial with you, I wasn't sure, then you turned around and played 36 holes and got into the U.S. Open. 
 ERIK COMPTON: I played great. I putted really well. And the last hole I putt a little heat on myself. I was thinking if I could par the last hole, or get that last putt, I would play with Tiger, and I just misread it. I'm sure there's probably other 3-unders. 
 Our wave of tee times was a little bit of a different tournament, so you know, just now it starts, the weekend, try to make the best out of it.

 Q. Your caddie's name, I know you've known him for a while?
 ERIK COMPTON: Phil Smith. 

 Q. For years and years? 
 ERIK COMPTON: Yeah, from high school. 

 Q. You went to the same high school? Which high school?
 ERIK COMPTON: Palmetto. 

 Q. Does he still have that text message you sent him, like when you were on the way to Jackson?
 ERIK COMPTON: Yeah, he's a paramedic firefighter, so if I have a problem, he's there for me. He can't get a job, so I said, come work for me. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT