ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 25, 2015
Erik Compton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Just comment on what was a long day out there.   
ERIK COMPTON:   Yeah, I mean it was nice to come out this morning and finish the round.   And then, you know, I basically just did what everybody else did, saddled up and waited, and then we were lucky to get back out and play.   
And then tomorrow just get out and try to do it again.   Hopefully the weather holds up.  
THE MODERATOR:   And what a great start to round 3 for you.   Just comment a little bit about the start, if you can.   
ERIK COMPTON:   Yeah.   I mean it's‑‑ it's going to be a low‑scoring tournament, so fortunate to get off to a decent start, a good start.   And you know, tomorrow's a long day.   It's a lot of golf, so you know, you have to reach a number.   I'm sure some of the top players have a number in their mind of what they want to get so.   So you just gotta put your foot down and just trying to hit that number.  
   
 Q.   Do you have a number in mind?  
ERIK COMPTON:   I'd like to get to about 40‑under par.   (Laughs).   And see how that does.   
No, it's just one shot at a time.   And you know, just play one shot at a time and play aggressive.  
   
 Q.   You played really well here last year, as I recall.   What about this course suits your game?  
ERIK COMPTON:   I don't know.   That's a good question.   
   
 Q.   It's kind of a long course, especially when it's wet like this.   
ERIK COMPTON:   I guess I'm pretty long then.   
   
 Q.   Yeah.   Exactly.   
ERIK COMPTON:   I don't know.   To be honest, golf's a game that we rent, and you know, I hit a few putts that went in this morning, and I made a couple of putts just now.   And you know, you just gotta run with it.  
THE MODERATOR:   Does not re‑pairing tomorrow change anything, Erik, just in terms of less pressure or anything like that?   
ERIK COMPTON:   I mean there's just‑‑ yeah, I mean you just gotta play golf.   I mean some other tournaments, you have different strategy, but here you just have to put your foot down and play golf.   I mean everybody's‑‑ somebody's going to make a run and there's probably going to be four or five guys that are going to shoot some low scores, so my attitude tomorrow is just fairways and greens, fairways and greens and try to knock the flag out of the hole.   
THE MODERATOR:   Perfect.   Thanks, Erik.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT