THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 30, 2010
Erik Compton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Erik, just talk a little bit about the day. Hung in good.  
 ERIK COMPTON: Yeah, I'm a little sour getting off the course because I -- you know, I putted a ton of putts that didn't go in on the back.  
 But I scrambled on the front and managed to be 1-under going into 18. I played great from hole 18 to hole No. 9. I hit every fairway and every evergreen. I managed to make one birdie out of that.  
 So, you know, I'm in good shape for the tournament. But I was just frustrated because, I mean, three birdies out here is not acceptable. Hopefully get on tomorrow and maybe the greens will be a little fresher.   
 But pretty much I'm exhausted right now. It's 8:00 in the evening.   
  
  Q. Being it was an afternoon round, a lot track marks on the greens.   
 ERIK COMPTON: Greens are beat up pretty bad, yeah.  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible.)  
 ERIK COMPTON: Yeah, Aron Price and I, between the two of us, we made five birdies. Yesterday between the two of us we made 15 birdies and an eagle. So I think it would make a little bit of a difference.  
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 ERIK COMPTON: I would is say it's a three-shot difference between the morning and the afternoon with the greens.  
 But, you know, I got to play tomorrow in the afternoon. You know, hopefully go get some good sleep and just -- you know, I need to be a little better keeping it below the hole. When the greens are bumpy, you can't be above the hole.  
  
  Q. You really rallied - well, I won't say rallied, because you didn't go to the tank - but you hit a shot, missed either a birdie or par putt - maybe you remember the hole - and next tee shot you hit in the right rough. In a lot of cases, you'll see guys, they'll miss a putt and tighten up and get a bogey. But you scrambled. Do you remember what hole that was by any chance? You hit it in the right rough right off the tee. It's not important.   
 ERIK COMPTON: Yeah, well, no, I scrambled on 16 and I scrambled on 14 -- or 13 and 14, I think.  
  
  Q. You had an up-and-down to save for par.   
 ERIK COMPTON: Yeah, one of them I didn't get up-and-down. But you're gonna have those. You can't panic, because it's a matter of averages. If you have a couple bad swings back to back, it's just -- I write it off as sort of a fluke.   
 You just got to keep on trusting your swing and hitting the shots. You know, I felt like I played really good from 18 until the 9th hole.   
  
  Q. There were several times where you had to go and save par. Did that get frustrating after a while?   
 ERIK COMPTON: Um, the only holes I saved par was on the -- most guys didn't see the back nine. I two-putted every hole on the back except for 1.   
 So I had 17 putts and shot 1-under. I only had three holes where I could get up-and-down, and that was on 13, 14, and 16. I think I hit 15 greens, so I mean, you know -- I mean, I don't know anybody else who's gonna be hitting 18 greens.   
 So everybody has to get up-and-down. You just got to suck it up and try and keep the momentum going.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT