HUMANA CHALLENGE IN PARTNERSHIP WITH THE CLINTON FOUNDATION
January 25, 2015
Erik Compton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)   
ERIK COMPTON:   I thought I was pretty pathetic, but I hung in there.  
   
 Q.   Did you feel off from the beginning?  
ERIK COMPTON:   Yeah, my driver, when it's not good, it was tough to play.   Bill was putting well, Bill played great.   I had my chances early to make it happen, and from there it was just ‑‑ I didn't birdie a par‑5 all day.  
   
 Q.   How did it compare with the U.S. Open?   Kaymer had that big early lead, you had a bunch of guys around you, how did it feel today?  
ERIK COMPTON:   Again, I just didn't feel comfortable most of the week with my driver.   That's the big thing for me.   So, I had to hit a lot of 3‑woods and even on 18, I'm trying to hit a hold up fade just to try to find the fairway.   
So, when you drive it like that, it's difficult.   I was lost and didn't make very many putts early in the round.   
And I missed that 3‑footer on 2 to and the momentum switched when Bill made eagle and he drove the ball great and he putted excellent and, I mean, I expected him, that one of us had to shoot 5‑ or 6‑under and 2‑under out here is not going to get it done.   
   
 Q.   First 54 hole lead on the PGA TOUR, how did you feel?  
ERIK COMPTON:   That doesn't mean anything.   Statistics don't mean anything.   
   
 Q.   How did you feel though?  
ERIK COMPTON:   The same for me, you know.   No difference.   I know it sounds kind of negative, but it's not, if I looked at statistics, I wouldn't be standing here, so they don't really mean anything to me.   I had an opportunity to play well, I'm proud of myself, I hung in there, I only made two bogeys all week.  
But I was lost with the driver.   I depended on my short game all week.   I got to work on the driver and when I get that fixed, I think I'll be in good shape for the year.   
   
 Q.   Do you take away a building block from this or more frustration?  
ERIK COMPTON:   Like the more times you put yourself in position, but I wasn't pleased with the way I started the round, I mean, you got to put your foot down and if you don't birdie the par‑5s ‑‑ I shot 2‑under with no birdies on the par‑5s.   
So I don't think it's so much the pressure, I just think today really wasn't my day and I gutted it out and was able to get something out of it, but you just got to move on and try to do something next week.   But it was fun to be out here, Bill's a great guy, he played excellent golf, and in order to have ‑‑ I was just saying to some of the guys it would have been more fun if I got myself where I thought I was in contention in the back nine, because I really didn't have that feeling.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT