ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 14, 2019
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Interesting front nine with just one birdie, and the back nine, it was really working for you.  Talk us through your round?  
HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, it was a little bit different wind conditions today.  I think first couple of holes played a bit tougher, so the first four wasn't easy today.  Then missed an opportunity on 7, obviously, to make one.   
But all in all, I was fairly happy with the front nine.  Just didn't get it going too much.  On the back nine we did hit a couple of shots a bit closer and made a few putts.  So pleased with that.  I had a great chance on the last here from about, I don't know, 12, 14 feet, to get to 20-under, but it just missed.   
Yeah, could have been one better, but I'm not unhappy with the day's work, with the week's work.  Take a lot of positives with us into next week.   
 Q.  You only dropped one shot for the whole week.  Is this a sign of where your game's at?  
HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, I came here trying to get my long game in better shape and we did some good work earlier on in the week.  That seemed to have paid off.  I was hitting the ball better.  Hit more fairways.  Hit more greens.  It was just that one little dot in the scorecard yesterday on 17 when I doubled that one.   
Bit of a weird week to make 21 birdies, one doubles and everything else is par.  But I'll take that next week, I know that much.   
 Q.  Let's talk about next week.  How excited are you, and how are you feeling about going into Ireland?  
HENRIK STENSON: It's going to be good fun.  Playing in front of those crowds I think is going to be very, very special.  I was there before this week, so I feel like I've got a good grip on what I need to do on the golf course.   
Now some light practice and a couple of nine-hole practice rounds and conserve energy and hopefully we'll have a chance to be contending during the weekend.   
 Q.  You were saying how excited you are about playing in front of the Scottish fans.  Did you find the atmosphere was what you expected during your time here?  
HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, I had great support out here.  Clearly they are still remembering Troon; I am, at times, and I always felt very welcome.  It's a great pleasure playing in front of the Scottish crowds.  Yeah, can't get too much of that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT