ABU DHABI HSBC CHAMPIONSHIP
January 21, 2017
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. At 10-under, how do you feel about your position going into Sunday, all things considered, travel in the off-season and all the stuff?
HENRIK STENSON: It could have been a bit better finish today.  Dropping one on 17 and not making birdie on 18, I could have been in a great position coming into Sunday.  But I guess to some degree, we're still at the races.  Just got to play better tomorrow and make up more ground.
But it's all possible.  We've seen that in the past.  Yeah, game-wise, I thought I played my best round today.  But I shaved the edges quite a few times with the putter and again, same as yesterday, I didn't really get the scoring going.  You know, in terms of competition, that's not really what you want, but in terms of progress, I'm more happy with my ball-striking today than I was round one.
Q. Where does the Desert Slam factor from a motivational standpoint?
HENRIK STENSON: Well, I've always started out my seasons here.  It's good weather and good courses and good practice facilities, and I've got part of my team here.  So that's kind of the same all over again.  And yeah, we're get something good work done, and it's always been a good way to set up the season for me.
Q. You started three shots back and you're only three shots back right now.  Are you surprised it didn't get a little further away?
HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, I mean, it seems like there's been some good scoring out there.  But in the later groups, nothing too flash happening I guess.  It's very bunched up and a lot of things that can happen in the final round.
Q. Those flags, do you think the reason why -- Dustin went out there and shot 64 early doors like you did on day one.  Do you think it was because the flags were tucked a little today; that a lot of other guys in the final groups didn't shoot as low?
HENRIK STENSON: I think just in the afternoon, somewhere around 11.00, the breeze always seems to kick up.  It was definitely tricky yesterday.  I thought some of the pins were actually tougher yesterday.
But you know, it's hard.  I aimed at one or two today and got the wind wrong and it cost me a shot.  It's still tricky enough, but at the same time, there's always a low score out there.  So that's what I need to focus on tomorrow.
Q. You won't be in the final group tomorrow, but you are in front, so you can post one.  What do you think it's going to take tomorrow?
HENRIK STENSON: So much, depending on the conditions.  I know I've got to shoot in the mid 60s I think to have a chance, and that's definitely doable.  Just got to try to carry on.
I was happy with my ball-striking today for most of the round, and yeah, I just shaved the edges too many times with the putter.  But all in all, I think I played my best round today.
Q. You've played well here; you're overdue here, aren't you?
HENRIK STENSON: If you say so.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT