DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 18, 2016
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Just happy to be moving in the right direction?
HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, absolutely.  I'm definitely not playing great, but I had some more chances today and the putter was behaving a lot better than yesterday.  So yeah, made some really nice putts out there.  Holed out nicely and made a few for birdie, as well.  It was definitely the putter that kept it together today.
Q. After yesterday, did you make any changes overnight?
HENRIK STENSON: Not for the better, no.  I'm trying to work away.  It's a bit of a grind, we're not playing our best but I'm hanging in there and fighting hard.  I know the guys are going to come at me.  I was just waiting for one of them to appear on the leaderboard, and Alex's did.  I know it's going to be a long weekend and they are going to keep on pushing me.  So I'm just trying to do my best.
Q. For the guys that are just underway, you've looked at the leaderboard and see them, and given you've played 18 holes on the course this morning, is it definitely going to give them scores in the 60s?
HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, it's not much wind out there and the pins are a bit easier today I would say than yesterday, so there's definitely birdies out there.  Yeah, I expect them to be moving ahead.
Q. You had an earlier start time than you're used to.  What do you do with the extra time this evening?
HENRIK STENSON: Practicing.  Compared to last year, though, I was out early last year every day except the first one.  Yeah, I'm going to get some lunch and do a bit of practice; it's needed.
Q. What was the difference today?
HENRIK STENSON: Better putter for sure.  I made some nice birdies out there I thought and still scrambled for par pretty well.
Yeah, long game is not the way we want it, but I'm hanging in there, fighting.  Keeping it in play most of the time.  It's just hard when I'm in the rough a bit more than I would have liked to and it's just hard to control.  Got a couple of flyers out of the rough, and then, you can end up in some quirky places.  Yeah, not great playing but a much better day than yesterday.
Q. And some important putts, like the one on 14.
HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, I was in a decent place, and then it's downgrain all the way more or less and it slopes away on the back.  As you saw Branden play after his drop, he played a nice wedge and had a little bit too much pace and it goes over immediately.  You want to get the chip there, but you've still got to be very precise, and I just duffed it there into it the grain and left me in a horrible place to 2-putt.
Yeah, I think that was key to keep the momentum going after dropping one on 12 and saving myself on 13.  That one kind of steadied the ship, and then made two nice birdies on 15 and 18 to come in at 3-under.
Q. A couple of quirky things happened with you today; the lady, she kept saying that you were her favourite golfer.
HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, I didn't expect her to say that after being hit.  It was very unfortunate circumstance.  I flared my 5-iron right and I'm standing there thinking, is it going in the bunker or flying over the bunker, and next thing, I see it go into the crowd and hit someone.  It was actually a miss-hit up into the wind into the right.  It went further than the pin number, so I don't know what -- something was quirky there.
Unfortunately I hit the lady and she went down.  But I had some reports later in the round that she was doing okay, and of course, you get shocked when you get hit like that and it's painful.  Yeah, I'm just making sure that we're going to get her details so I can send her something nice.
Q. And your ball getting picked up by a marshal?
HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, I don't know if it was a marshal or who it was.  But we hit it right on 2 there, short right of the green, and then we heard someone pick it up.
So I don't know why anyone that enters a golf tournament is picking up a golf ball insides the ropes.  That seems a bit weird to me.  But it happens, unfortunately.  I had to call for a ruling and then we estimate where it was supposed to be and dropped it there and on we go.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT