ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 12, 2019
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Another really strong round of golf here.  You've placed very nicely.  How do you reflect on your opening two days?  
HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, they have been pretty much copy/paste.  Same as yesterday, six birdies and no bogeys, so that's always pleasing when you play 36 holes without dropping a shot.  We're obviously playing a fairly easy golf course in easy conditions, so it will be a birdie-fest out there as the scoring will tell you.   
So yeah, just try to keep up with the guys at the top of the leaderboard, and so far I'm pleased with the way I've played.  A lot of good tee shots.  A lot of good approaches and solid putting on the greens, even though I let one or two good chances slip by here on the back nine, I'm still pleased where I'm positioned after two rounds.   
 Q.  A few of you I think would like the wind to get up just to increase the challenge, but are you enjoying it out there?  
HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, I think I'm one of them.  I want the wind to come up a little bit.  I see this as a good prep leading into next week.  Even though we're playing for a very strong title and lots of points here this week, it is a good week to tune up your game.  In order to do so, I would have liked to see a little tougher test than we've had these first two days, but weather in Scotland can always change pretty quickly, as you know, so we'll see what the weekend brings us.   
 Q.  What is the mentality when you come into this week?  Like you say, it is a big prize in itself but you are a week out from an Open Championship.  What is the mentality and what is important to you this week?  
HENRIK STENSON: Well, for me, it's to tune up the game, get used to playing links golf, and the greens have been very receptive.  So that's the one downside, the way I look at it; that I would have liked to see these 5, 15-pace bounces at times, and we're not really getting that.   
It's more target golf than links golf at this point, but I'm coming from three weeks off, so I'm trying to find the momentum and so far, so good.  So I hope I can continue over the weekend.   
 Q.  Second consecutive 65, how do you feel about this round?  
HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, I'm pleased.  Same as yesterday.  They were pretty similar I think.  Hit a lot of fairways, a lot of greens, some solid iron shots and gave myself lots of chances and wasn't really in too much trouble.   
So I think I possibly had more chances today than yesterday, but yeah, all in all, very pleased with the game and the first two days.   
 Q.  When you were teeing off this afternoon, you were at eight shots off the lead.  So how do you swing that around when you're in the middle of the day like that?  
HENRIK STENSON: I know it's a golf course that's going to yield a lot of birdies if you're playing well.  So you just have to keep your patience and keep on giving yourself chances.  I let a few slip on the way home here.  12-under after two days is sitting pretty good; the guys are 14-under.  Yeah, two shots is not too much over the next two days.  So we just have to keep on trying to do more of the same.   
 Q.  And it's not just about the birdies because saving par here is really important, like did you on 9 and 10.  Can you talk us through those?  
HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, those are the closest I've been to dropping a shot this week.  Hit it left on 9 and had a really tricky putt from the edge of the green there, to get it up and over some mounts, and judged that pace very, very good.   
Then on 10, I hit my approach a little bit too soft into the wind.  Came up short and didn't get the chip as close as I wanted and had to roll in probably about, I don't know, a 7-, 8-footer for par.  Sent that one home.  So yeah, we haven't really been in too much trouble these first two rounds.   
 Q.  And like you said now, two shots off the lead, how does that feel going into the weekend?  
HENRIK STENSON: I'm just going to try to do more of the same.  I can't control what the other guys do.  I can only control what I do.  So I picked up some nice momentum on my striking, which has been the one area that I would have liked to improve the most.  So I'm pleased with that, and just going to keep on trying to do more of the same and see where that takes us.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT