NEDBANK GOLF CHALLENGE PRESENTED BY GARY PLAYER
November 12, 2016
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
HENRIK STENSON: That felt good.  Tricky day out there.  I didn't play my best by any means.  So I had to fight hard and got back into it on the back nine with a couple of good shots and took those opportunities.  So life is good.   
 Q.  How hard is it to play this golf course when you make some mistakes or actually find a way to get back at it?  
HENRIK STENSON: It is a tricky course, no question about it.  We're playing it in stronger winds than we normally do.  I think this is my seventh appearance here and it's normally a month later.  It makes a difference.  It's definitely windier.  It's stronger.  And when you're not feeling comfortable over some of the tee shots, they are not too inviting, I promise you that.   
I had to grind it out, but I did well at getting the ball in.   
 Q.  What's your best score ever around this golf course?  
HENRIK STENSON: 63, I believe.  I'd take one of those right now.   
 Q.  One of those might get it done, actually.  
HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, you never know.  It was good to shoot under 70 in tough conditions today.  You never know what might happen tomorrow.  Might find my game overnight in my sleep.   
 Q.  If you do find that score tomorrow, that could wrap up things on the Race to Dubai?  
HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, I'm just trying to stay in it and have a good week.  My goal is always to come into the last one is, have it in my own hands and have a chance.  No matter what happens here tomorrow, I will have that.  It's just a question of if we're in front or even or behind.  I should hopefully be in front still.  I've got to play some good golf next week to wrap it up.   
 Q.  Talk about the day, please.  
HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, it was another tough day out there.  It's strong winds, doing it's normal swirls.  You can feel like you've got 20 yards, thirty seconds later it's vanished and then it's back another minute later.  It's tricky.  It's a tricky golf course, and I'm not playing my best, that's for certain.  But I got off to a good start and then it was some really poor golf for a few holes.   
But right around the turn, I managed to make a couple of birdies and get back into it.  And then, yeah, I finished with two good iron shots, two 8-irons into 17 and 18 and managed to take the opportunities.  So very pleased with that.   
 Q.  Is it a matter of pride that you hung in there again and made sure that you were still involved on the business end?  
HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, we certainly played the full distance all my rounds.  I had to fight hard this week.  I haven't been on my game.  My long game has been not even average.  It's been worse than that.  So it's been a tough battle, but I'm happy with my patience still, though.  Made a couple good putts when I needed it so we're still at the races.   
 Q.  You look over your shoulder and there is a man who has closed the gap a little bit?  
HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, it was good to see Danny play well today.  It's a really good score to shoot 5-under out there today.  He's had a tough couple of months, so sooner or later he'll find his form again and it seems like this might be the moment.   
 Q.  You said you can only dream of a 63 this week, but what do you fancy for the final day?  
HENRIK STENSON: 62?  No, you've got to play really good if you're going to shoot a score like that.  Once again, you just got to go out there and stick to it and we'll see if I can play a bit better tomorrow and finish off in good style.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT