THE RYDER CUP
October 2, 2016
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great battle with Jordan, nice to get the better of him today?  
HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, that's nice.  It was a tough one to lose the singles at Gleneagles, and I don't think I've played that poorly this week by any means, but I haven't been getting too many points.  So I didn't want to let it slip today, and came out with some good game and kept very focused and I did my thing.  Very happy with the outcome.   
 Q.  You had a job to do.  How well did you keep to the game plan?  
HENRIK STENSON: Very happy with that.  There's always going to be one or two mistakes out there but in general I hit a lot of quality shots and got the putter going today.  He's a tough opponent and he's definitely a different man from yesterday afternoon when he wasn't playing very well.   
Very happy with the way I played today.  Stayed very focused and got the putter going and hit some excellent shots and managed to beat Jordan.  He's a tough competitor.  We played a lot of golf both this week and the last couple of years.  Enjoy his company and knew it was going to be a tough match.  I'm delighted I managed to win it.   
 Q.  You win 3 & 2 and you've won three of the four par 5s you played today?  
HENRIK STENSON: Striking was much better today.  I had a good round striking Friday afternoon in the better-ball when Justin and I managed to beat Patrick and Jordan, and yesterday was average, I guess.  Feels really nice to come back today with a strong game.   
 Q.  Obviously done your job, the first point of the afternoon on the board, it's a big task for Europe?  
HENRIK STENSON: It is.  It's always going to be, no matter if we were down 9-7 or it was 8-8 today.  It's always a big ask in the singles.  We've done it before and I'm going to go out and support my teammates.  It's been a great week with the team, as always, and we never give up until it's over.  Hopefully we can turn this thing around still.   
 Q.  Pleased with the play you played today?  
HENRIK STENSON: Absolutely.  It's the best I played this week.  I had a good session in the afternoon fourballs with Justin and a couple of rounds where I didn't play my best but I felt like maybe the opponents had slightly better luck, as well, in a few of the matches.  At least happy to win the singles match.  It's an important one.  Pretty pleased with the week and it's been a fun one, as always.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT