U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 14, 2019
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Nice play.  Your overall assessment of the day?
HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, it wasn't great, but it wasn't bad, either.  Up until the last, I feel like I was keeping away from making any stupid mistakes and kind of played major golf, try and hit as many fairways and greens as you can and make as many pars as you can, and hopefully you pick one up here and there.
I kind of did that.  I don't think -- it wasn't the easiest morning.  A little misty and not very warm when we teed off.  The greens, a few of them, at least, started to firm up quite a bit, compared to yesterday.  I was expecting, if anything, slightly softer than yesterday afternoon, and it kind of went the other way a little bit, especially like a lob wedge in on 3, took a huge bounce.  Some of the greens have been holding a bit more than others, I feel.
But there were certainly a couple of pin positions that were a little tough to get close to today than yesterday, and I don't think they particularly liked the low scoring we had yesterday, so I think they're trying to up it a little bit today.  Even though there's definitely birdies out there, and Jim played a tighter round of golf and made some good birdies, there's certainly a score out there.  If the greens kind of keep on getting firm, it's going to be harder and harder to get close to the pin as the week goes on.
Q. How do you feel about the position?
HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, position-wise, we're obviously fairly happy with that.  I don't feel like I'm playing great, even though yesterday I hit some good iron shots.  But overall I don't feel like we're quite where we want to be form-wise.  Given that, I feel like I've done pretty well these two days with the game I've had to be in red figures.
Q. First, my wife said, make sure you seek Henrik, because her last name is Stenstrom?
HENRIK STENSON: All right.
Q. Kind of similar.  Anyway, welcome back.  And how do you feel about the weather, playing in these conditions, as far as the haze, the fog and the upper fog, the haze, would you rather play on a sunny day or do you like this?
HENRIK STENSON: I'd probably prefer a bit of sunshine.  It was a little, I don't know, gloomy when we teed off.  But I think if you start to seeing some sunshine and a little bit of breeze, then the greens are going to firm up and we'll play a slightly different golf course.  It's been fairly receptive and you can somewhat attack the approach shots, at least with the shorter clubs.
So, yeah, it can change with a couple of days of sunshine and wind, that's for sure.  We'll see what the conditions will bring us going forward.  It's still very playable out there.  It's about a club of wind, something like that.  It's not too tough, even though the golf course, itself, can present some challenges if you're in the wrong spot, that's for sure.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT