U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 13, 2019
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Great back nine.
HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, it was nice.  I felt like I was swinging the club a bit better today.  It's been -- the whole kind of season's been a bit of a grind for me, but I've been fighting it out and haven't really had too many good weeks, but last week came off a top 10 in Canada and still wasn't overly happy with the game.
But did some work yesterday with my coach.  I felt pretty good today.  It's more when you keep on working all the time, you don't have much time to build a trust in the swing and get the confidence back up.  This is not an easy golf course to find your confidence either, but I try to stay committed to my -- to what I had decided I was going to do, and I did that really well out there.
I hit some really good iron shots.  I didn't get the putter going too much, but after missing a six-footer straight up the hill on the third -- on the fourth, then I hit a 2 to about five feet on 5 and made that one, and I kind of started the birdie, two-putted from just short of the green on 6 and hit it to about 10, 12 feet on 7.  And then laid up way back and didn't quite catch the tee shot on 8 and had a full 6 on in and got a good break there, landed right around the front edge to the right and skipped out to about eight feet above the hole, six, eight feet above the hole.  And made that one, was strictly putt.  And then, yeah, 9 is -- got it to about 30 feet, pin-high right and two-putted up the hill.
Q. Is it a mental adjustment that you made?  Is it a physical adjustment you made?  Is there anything that you could tell made the difference in getting those birdies?
HENRIK STENSON: I just -- no, I stayed patient.  And, I mean, I hit it close, like I said, five feet with a 7-iron on 5.  And, again, it was about a four-footer, four-, five-footer to clean up on 6.  And, yeah, just picked a good line on 7 and made the other ones.
So, yeah, I wasn't really -- I just stayed patient.  And if you have a few chances and they don't go in, if you keep on doing the right things, hopefully you get on a good run, and that's kind of what I had there.  And it wasn't overly long putts, as I said, but I made them.  And, of course, it feels good to clean up with four birdies in the last five holes.
Q. Can you use this momentum for tomorrow, or is the new day exactly that, a new day?
HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, every day is a new day.  You can just keep on trying to do all the right things and then hopefully you get the reward at the end.  Like I said, I had a lot of good swings out there today, which hasn't been the case as of late, so I'll take the positives out of that.
I think I played the golf course in a good way strategy-wise.  I didn't put myself in too much trouble, and we knew that all along you've got to stay out of the rough, both off the tee and around the greens here to be able to put a score together, and I think I did that well today.
So, yeah, we'll just keep on, hopefully more of the same tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT