OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 5, 2016
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You have to be very pleased with 68?
HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, absolutely, it was a tough day out there.  Wind was blowing hard and a lot of shots coming in with the crosswind and you have water on one side.  It's just a tricky day, really.
Q. What about the greens?  The greens look to be getting to be brown towards the end of the day today.  How much more difficult were they today versus yesterday morning when you guys got out there?
HENRIK STENSON: I thought they were pretty hard to read yesterday, as well.  Seems to be a bit more grain this year.  I think the grass is really good, really strong, but makes it a little tougher to get that read going.  It's always better in the morning than in the afternoon, but who am I to say what's tough.  Drained, I don't know, a 50-footer on the last for birdie, so, yeah, greens were good.
It's not easy, there's not a lot of slope on a lot of them but they are still hard to read.  I'm happy to get that in the clubhouse.  I was running out of energy a little bit and I wasn't close to making a par in the last five holes, it was three birdies and two bogeys.  Happy with the day's work and looking forward to the weekend.
Q. Pleased with your position on that leaderboard?
HENRIK STENSON: Absolutely, it was a tough day out there.  Wind was blowing pretty hard and you have a lot of crosswinds, both off the tee and into the green, so you have to control your shots and I managed to do that quite well but there was still a couple occasions where I didn't.  Tried hard to make pars, and yeah, happy with the score.  It didn't make it feel any worse, draining a 50-footer on the last.
I would have taken two from there, I'm pretty sure.  It's a tricky 2-putt from 50 feet on last.  To make it was a huge bonus, and I didn't play that last hole very well.  Happy to get that in the clubhouse really.
Q. When you look at the leaderboard, satisfied with your position?
HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, at the moment I'm roughly two off the lead halfway through.  Still a lot of golf to play and still a lot of ground to be able to catch the leaders.  So we're looking forward to the weekend and see what we can do.
Q. Injury update?
HENRIK STENSON: It felt a little worse today I would say, just walking.  I could feel the knee a bit more in the morning and I'm off the anti-inflammatories and I think that upset it a little more now, we'll see.  I might need to go back on them again for the last two rounds.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT