ABU DHABI HSBC GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 23, 2016
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  The turn in 39 yesterday, and today finishing off three birdies in the last four, what would you put that down to?  
HENRIK STENSON: Well, yesterday to be fair I did pretty well to be 3-over.  I played horrendous on the front nine yesterday and I was scrambling for 3-over, so that could have been a lot worse, but not any better, really.   
I was out there in the fog for an hour and a half with Pete this morning working away on some stuff and obviously that worked a little bit better than what I was doing yesterday.  Hit some really nice iron shots.  Hit 7-iron to about four and a half feet on 15 and wedge to ten feet on 16 and a good 9-iron to about ten feet on 17.  So three nice iron shots and made the putts.  So that was the difference.   
 Q.  Because of these delays, I can't imagine that would do any help for the knee.  How is that feeling so far this week, two rounds in now?  
HENRIK STENSON: It's been a struggle.  Not so much for the knee.  It's getting a bit swollen from playing golf and walking but the foot is taking a lot of strain.  So I feel like I've done about a thousand toe-ups.   
Yeah, I've decided to not push that any further and take a rest for next week.  I'm trying to make the most out of these last two rounds.  Unfortunately I have pull out of Qatar and get some rest and rehab and hopefully we can push on from there.   
 Q.  Bearing that in mind, got a bit of a break before you go out for your third round, will that be used with some recovery?  Will you get some physio?  
HENRIK STENSON: Possibly a little bit.  More get some food, and I don't know if it's easy to get a snooze around here but that would be nice.  We were up at 4.45 this morning and had to wait around for the fog.  And it's going to be an early morning tomorrow again because we are not going to finish today.  So yeah, it's always a bit of a tough one when we get delays, but we get used to it, so we'll make the best out of it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT