BMW MASTERS
November 15, 2015
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What are your thoughts on the way it's finished off for you, particularly that wonderful run on the back nine.  
HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, I played really nicely on the front nine.  Hit it close a couple of times ask didn't make any putts and then made a mess out of the 7th and bogeyed that one.  So things were not really looking good at that point.   
But managed to keep on playing good, really, on the back nine and hit some lovely shots and started making birdies and as I birdied 11, I birdied 13, and then a bit of a lucky pitch in from a bunker visit off the fairway, and then pitched it in from about 50 yards on 14.   
And then two great shots on 15.  I don't think too many people got there in two today.  Nice 2-putt birdie from long range.  Then hit it close on 16.   
Yeah, just a shame.  I mean, we left a lot of putts short out there all week.  The greens are hairy and a bit slow.  It's just hard.  You look at a putt, it's downhill, looks like it's going to be quick, and still can't manage to get it to the hole there.  If it would have been a bit better on the pace this week, could have made a lot more.  But I think that was the same for everyone, really.   
 Q.  The excitement must have grew for you; you must have been aware of what was happening around you.  
HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, I saw it was a really tight leaderboard.  Yeah, it was a shame on the last I didn't get it to the hole.  If I would have put that one in, it might have been an outside chance for a playoff.  But the boys are having good looks for birdie here, so probably 18-under would be the number the way it looks now.   
 Q.  Seems like we said this repeatedly to you across the season, but it all bodes well for events coming up.  
HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, it's a good rehearsal for next week for sure.  I'm really looking forward to coming back to Dubai, trying to win that one for the third time in a row.  It's a good rehearsal for sure.  I played nicely throughout the week and just need to make a few more on the greens.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT