DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 7, 2015
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Began the final round with a 1-shot lead and in control for much of the day.  What's the immediate reaction to the final outcome?  
HENRIK STENSON: Well, I obviously pulled the wrong club on 16 and was trying to get the most out of a 7-iron into the wind and ballooned that one a little bit and that was the crucial mistake, making double there was really a killer.  I tried to get those two shots back or at least one to force a playoff on the last two holes and couldn't manage to do it.   
I thought I did pretty well on the last, had a nice chip from a really hard position.  Looked like it could have had a look.  And good putt, as well, that didn't break as much in the end.   
A little disappointed, but still a good week, played well.  There were a couple of occasions I didn't really take my chances, and had a couple of bad breaks.  All in all a little disappointed, but not too much.   
 Q.  What are the positives you take away, back-to-back second place finishes in the playoffs.  
HENRIK STENSON: Again, going in the right direction, for sure.  I can certainly play better, but it's been good enough to be in contention two weeks in a row.  And try to continue that throughout the playoffs.   
 Q.  I want to ask you about 16.  Was it just a misjudgment or what happened on the par-3?  
HENRIK STENSON: Well, the wind is pretty firm up above the trees.  And I just -- I felt like I needed to go a bit harder with that 7-iron.  Rickie hit a small 6.  And I ballooned it a little bit and into the wind and it was just stalling.  And that's kind of a little bit my dilemma.  It pops up a little bit and that was really the killer blow for the week.   
Other than that I was playing quite nicely the last day.  Didn't get all the right breaks, but I was still hanging in putts and still in control.  And then Rickie made a couple of nice putts for birdie on 11 and 14.  And I had to fight for par on a couple of occasions.  But that was really the decider, 16, I had a two shot swing on that hole.   
 Q.  You've got to feel good about the rest of the playoffs?  
HENRIK STENSON: It's in the right direction, for sure, and the main goal would be in the top-5 heading into East Lake.  And we're thereabouts at the moment.  So, yeah, a little disappointing.  Always disappointing when you can't finish the job when you're in good position.  But you have to take the positives.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT