THE BARCLAYS
August 30, 2015
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You come up a bit short today, but still an excellent round.  How pleased are you with the way you played today?  
HENRIK STENSON: I hit some great shots out there.  Made a couple of good putts.  Missed a few chances.   
That monster drive on 2, I managed to pitch it over the green, ended up making bogey.  I didn't really get going early on.   
I had a good run on 5, 6, 7; birdies on those ones.  I birdied 10.  I came back with two good birdies on 13 and 14.   
Yeah, I hit a lot of good shots.  I think there was only one player out there today.  I mean, Jason is full of confidence, just heating it up, making birdies.   
Yeah, it would have taken something really special to challenge him today the way he's playing at the moment.   
 Q.  How confident are you feeling in your game right now as you continue through the Playoffs?  
HENRIK STENSON: Not as high as you might think.  It's been a little bit of a struggle over the summer here.  You know, came in here with pretty low expectations.  But I wanted to turn around things mentally, if nothing else.  Working on my game.  I think I kept myself in the zone I want to be on the golf course.  I did that most of the week, so I'm happy with that progress.   
I can always improve on bits and pieces, but overall I'm satisfied with the week and of course with the result today.   
 Q.  What is the biggest positive takeaway you can get from this week?  
HENRIK STENSON: I thought I hit the ball really nicely today.  Putting, I've been working away.  I could make a few more putts, but I'm still hitting a lot of good putts.  It's just a work in progress and trying to build moving on.   
 Q.  Looks like some of the magic came back for a while.  
HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, I hit some quality shots.  I felt better on the range today than I did some of the other days.  Even though I still managed to hit a lot of greens, like I mostly do, I guess, I haven't been feeling that confident with my game.   
I decided this week to put the hat on the right way and just grind it out.  I did that really well for the four days.  I'm happy with that performance.  It got me a really good result, as well.   
There's some positives within the game.  There's room for improvements, don't get me wrong, but there was still a lot of good stuff.   
 Q.  You've had a lot of success in this Playoff format.  This catapults you to next week.  
HENRIK STENSON: I came in around 40th, knowing I needed either a really good week or some solid performances to at least get to a championship.  This puts us in a really good position, both to do that and also have the chance, if I can continue to play well in the next two events, to be one of the top-five guys going into East Lake.   
That would be the first goal.  If I can make it to East Lake being one of the top guys coming in that week, I know I can win a round at that golf course, 2013, the only time I played it.  It was a bit sad not to be able to come back in '14 to defend.  If we couldn't do it in '14, let's make sure we do it in '15.   
 Q.  What's the key now?  Three big weeks ahead.  Your game is peaking.  What is the key?  
HENRIK STENSON: Well, I haven't played that much.  Keeping the energy levels up.  I still got some work to do practice-wise but also making sure that you're feeling fresh and ready.  I certainly was that this week.  I want to keep that going.   
Maybe because I haven't played that much throughout the summer, that could help me throughout these Playoffs.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT