WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 7, 2015
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Henrik, four birdies, three bogeys today.  Solid day all in all, I guess.HENRIK STENSON: I'm pretty happy with the way I'm playing.  Maybe I felt like I hit it a little bit better yesterday than today.  Still playing nicely. It's not an easy golf course even though Jim made it look easy.  He was leaving everyone behind, at least the morning groups.  He played really solid and I played good myself.  Quite happy with the progress I made last week before coming into the tournament.Q. You speak of the course and how it's going.  Tell me how it's playing out there.  It looks very difficult.HENRIK STENSON: It's a bit firmer than we normally see.  The tricky part is you've got four or five of the fairways that's really sloping.  Even if you hit a perfect tee shot, you're more than likely to end up in the first cut.  I hit one or two flyers from there.  Just makes it more tricky if you can't keep it on the fairway on those holes.  And the greens are firming up a little bit.  It's a golf course that's par 70, it doesn't throw a whole lot of birdie chances at you.  You'd better take advantage when you're hitting good shots or some of the shorter holes. It's never been a course where you're shooting 25 under to win.  Normally, if you're around double digits, you're in good shape.  So plod along and see if we can make a few more tomorrow.Q. You're definitely in good shape.  Good luck on the weekend.HENRIK STENSON: Thank you.Q. Course was playing very difficult, wasn't it?HENRIK STENSON: It's definitely firmer this year.  It's playing faster.  Off the tee, you get some more distance, but on four or five of those fairways, they're really angled.  It's almost impossible to hit the fairway.  You're going to end up in the first cut.  I hit one or two flyers over the back of the green on 4 and on 17, as well. It's a bit more tricky than we normally see.  You've got to manage your game a little bit different.  But the greens are running beautifully, and they're pretty quick.  It's all about keeping the ball below the hole and give yourself chances.  On a par 70 course with a lot of long par 4s, you normally don't get that many chances.  So take them when you can and try and make red numbers.  I'm happy I've had two scores in the 60s and normally not losing positions on that.Q. Do you feel like given the tough conditions, that that kind of plays into some of the strengths of your game?HENRIK STENSON: I think so.  Then again, my playing partner was Furyk today, and yesterday he managed his game very well around here.  Even though it's normally a long golf course, and he's not the longest hitter, he hits a lot of fairways, and he's putting beautifully, and the short game is sharp as always.  He's definitely taken advantage of those conditions. Yeah, I feel like it suits me as well.  If you can hit some high towering iron shots, which I can do at times, then you can hold those firm greens.  Yeah, I'm looking forward to the rest of the week.Q. This course for the most part is pretty bunched.  Are you surprised at the separation Jim was able to get this afternoon?HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, he hit some good shots in there and drained some good putts.  When you get on a birdie run like he was there for a while, then you can leave the other guys behind if they don't get on a similar run.  We'll have to see in the afternoon if there's someone who gets hot and closes the gap a little bit.  Otherwise, we've got some work ahead of us.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT