BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 28, 2015
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   A 65, give us an indication of what you were thinking after the 12th hole after going eagle, birdie. 
HENRIK STENSON:   Yeah, I guess those two holes were worth coming and watching.   It was not free today.   You had to pay admission to come in, so I guess I gave them something to watch there. 
I hit some great shots and took full advantage of those two holes and thought if I could post a low number in the club house, see what happened.   Still kind of ended up that way.   I came close on that long‑range birdie putt on 17. 
16 was, again, proving to be a difficult one.   One minute the wind is down and you think, oh, I go for it.   And the next minute it comes out, and amazing 7‑iron, 6‑iron over the bunker, what am I doing here.   It's definitely a tricky hole so we'll be watching what the guys do on that one.   Yeah, I'm very happy with the way I putted and played today. 

Q.   How good did that putt look on 17? 
HENRIK STENSON:   It looked like it was in.   I didn't think that it was going to miss in the end but that's what happens. 
And on 18, it was just a tricky one.   They kind of went all over the place so we couldn't tell, is it going to go left, is it going to go right.   Mine went right and Gary's went left.   The pin is right on a bit of a ridge there, depending on your angle on a couple of the greens, it's going to break in a different direction.   The other guys have that one to look forward to. 

Q.   So what do you do now? 
HENRIK STENSON:   I might grab a quick bite to eat and watch a little bit or head down to the range and stay around in case we get some more play today. 

Q.   Your take on the final round, just what the doctor ordered? 
HENRIK STENSON:   Yeah, pretty much.   I came out there, hit some nice shots and took advantage with a good putter.   Made a birdie on 1.   Then I had to scramble a little bit on 2 and 3, made another good birdie on 4 and 6. 
Yeah, got off to a good start and then birdie 11, 12, birdied, eagled those two holes.   Pin position on 12 put some players in trouble, but I hit a lovely shot in there and rolled it in from about six feet.
Not much to be disappointed in today.   I had a long range chance on 17 that looked good and an eagle chance on the last, but it was a tricky line and didn't get the read right.

Q.   When you have eagle birdie and that run, you know that you're up there, got a chance?
HENRIK STENSON:   Yeah, I saw that after hitting the turn, I saw there were four guys on 14‑under at the top and I was 12‑under at the time.   I thought if I can make a push, we might get up there and throw our name in the hat, and it seems that we did that.   Whether we're coming out one or two shy or might be good enough for a playoff at the end of the day, you never know, see what the guys do coming in.

Q.   What is your gut feeling?
HENRIK STENSON:   I don't know, 30per cent for a playoff maybe, 50 per cent for a playoff maybe.   Otherwise someone is going to get to 17‑ or 18‑under I think.   We'll see but there's still a chance. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT