BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 25, 2015
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   5‑under par, one off the lead, what are your thoughts on that round?   
HENRIK STENSON:   There was a lot of things going on there.   Got off to a pretty good start, birdied 11 and 12.   I didn't do too much wrong on 16 and wounded up with triple, so that was kind of interesting.   
But I guess the patient practise at the U.S. Open was paying off.   So was still hanging in there, kind of major mentality.   Tried to just keep on going.   Birdied 18 and 1 at the turn and got it back to red figures and wrapped up with a nice string of birdies:   5, 6, 7, 8.   
Was in a good position to finish with five in a row, but I think the wind switched a little bit and I was kind inform between clubs and went with the longer club and ended up way in the grandstand.   I had a chance to make birdie anyway, and 5 was taking I guess, after being up in the chalets.  
   
 Q.   That was a great run on that back nine, four birdies in a row.   What kicked that off?  
HENRIK STENSON:   I just made a good putt on 5, really.   
And 6, I was a bit unlucky, I ended up making birdie anyway.   Had a nice tee ball and was sitting down in an old ball mark or something, so I couldn't go for the green in two and hit a nice lob‑wedge to a foot and still birdied that one.   
Made two good putts on 7 and 8.   
Would have felt really nice to finish with a birdie on 9 to make nine birdies and a triple to shoot 6‑under, but eight birdies and a triple isn't too bad, either.  
   
 Q.   Conditions different to what you encountered last week.   Is there anything that you had to do differently?  
HENRIK STENSON:   Like I said, the wind was swirling a little.   There was virtually no wind, but we had a couple yards of help on 16 and got into with a couple of yards.   And with the greens being that soft, they have the best they have ever been here, it's a great surface to putt on but they are really soft.   
For me, a high spinner of the golf ball, it's tricky when I'm hitting short irons in because they keep sucking back.   I landed it a good five, six, seven yards up on the green, but I still came back down in the water.   And now you're facing the same shot again and I wasn't even trying to go for the pin.   
If you're trying to be aggressive, sometimes you have to pay the price but I was just trying to dump 15, 20 feet right and 2‑putt and made par because it was a really tough pin position.   So of course disappointed to wrap up with a 7 on that one.   But those things happen and other than that, I did all right.   
   
 Q.   Tough trip coming back from Seattle.   What will you do this afternoon?  
HENRIK STENSON:   I've got a clinic now and going to hit a few shots on range and then hit the gym.   So there's no rest for the wicked.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT