ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 19, 2015
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You continued your good play from the last couple weeks.
HENRIK STENSON:   Yeah.   Got off to a bit of a rocky start but saved the pars on 10 and 11 and then had a great chance for eagle I missed on 12, made a good birdie on 13.   Saved myself again on 15, up and down 16 and it was pretty solid. 
Nothing overly spectacular but solid enough and made some good putts and gave myself some birdie chances.   I was 3-under on the back and didn't do much on the par-5s on the front-9 which is kind of where you want to pick up a little bit but pretty good shot into 7 and converted that to birdie and that was about it. 
Two long birdies putts on 8 and 9.   Managed to make two pars.   Pretty happy with that.

Q.   How is your form this year?
HENRIK STENSON:   It's definitely -- I'm definitely playing better at this time than I did last year I'd say.   There's never any guarantees, as you know, but I feel like I had a good break there leading into these five out of six weeks so got some better practice done. 
I'm putting better, that's for sure and short game has been all right and striking has actually been the one thing that's not maybe been as solid as normally is but I'm still in a decent spot and still got some time to try and tweak it week by week so happy with the progress and looking forward to the golf ahead.

Q.   You think about the Masters even now or tournament by tournament?
HENRIK STENSON:   It's definitely on my mind.   I'm trying to keep the mindset I want to have at Augusta, trying to keep that for these weeks and for every competitive round because it's not like you're going to all of a sudden be able to turn things up unless you've done it before.
So, I'm trying to be in a good frame of mind and do my routines and everything I go about in a good way now.

Q.   What do you mean by the same mindset at Augusta here?
HENRIK STENSON:   Just being -- I mean in a way it's not something that's a huge difference from the ordinary tournament week but you just got to be a little bit extra patient and just make sure that every -- mentally you're doing what you should do.   If you're a bit sloppy in that department then it's going to be harder to turn it on when you really want to play your best.
I mean we want to play our best and be in contention and try and win every week.   There's certain tournaments you want to want it more.   Augusta and the Majors are some of those.

Q.   You spoke last year a lot with the fatigue.   Is this a fresh start, new for you?
HENRIK STENSON:   Yeah.   I certainly liked to have that month off.   That was kind of my preseason.   Over Christmas it was more about just chilling out for a little bit and not much practice before I started playing in the Middle East.   So I got off to a slow start at those tournaments.   Got some good gym work done.   I feel like I'm in a better place this year heading into the busy part of the season.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT