WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 7, 2015
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about your round. 
HENRIK STENSON:   I thought it was going to be less wind but in the end, I thought it was, well, tied with the first day's conditions in terms of wind.   It was completely the other way around, so the course plays different. 
But it was, yeah, some holes that were harder the other days get easier today and vice versa.   Just a little bit of a switch there.   Yeah, it was more the rain. 
18 is a tough enough hole without driving rain and howling wind off the left.   That wasn't the easiest one.
In terms of my round, I felt like I didn't play my best but I was still unlucky on a few occasions.   Hit the flag on 14 and possibly eagle or tap‑in birdie got converted into par and one or two other putts that were just missing.   But all in all, I didn't play my best, and still got a way with a half decent score. 
Could have been a few better, but it wasn't, and you know, we'll try and get them back tomorrow. 

Q.   Do you feel like maybe you've got a 64 in you tomorrow? 
HENRIK STENSON:   Yeah, there's always a 64 in there.   Just depends on how many holes you've got left to play (laughing).
If I can play really well, of course I can shoot a low number here.   You'll have to wait and see what can happen, but as it is now, we're quite far behind, but I'm determined to have a pretty good tournament here, so I've got another 18 to complete and going to try my hardest for another four hours tomorrow and see where it gets us. 

Q.   You've got to see some fun stuff, the club throw yesterday and hole‑in‑one today. 
HENRIK STENSON:   Yeah, it's been a bit of a wild week.   Dustin's first five holes, there was not too much boring stuff there.   He was lucky, hit it way left on 1, we thought it was in the water and he got a way with that one.   He did hit it in the water on 2 and managed to save bogey.   Made a fantastic par save on 3, and hole‑in‑one on 4 and made a good putt for birdie on 5, so there was a lot of drama in his first five holes.

Q.   When a guy that you're playing with makes an ace, do you feel awesome for him as a golfer orare you like, oh, now he's got two strokes ‑‑
HENRIK STENSON:   No, I was walking down there just devastated it wasn't me (laughter). 
No, it was a great shot and looked good for a long time.   It was hard from the tee box for us to tell whether it was just short or just long.   But when it disappeared, there was no question that it was the right number. 
No, good for him.   I haven't seen too many holes‑in‑ones.   It's always refreshing. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT