WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 6, 2015
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Can you talk about your round? 
HENRIK STENSON:   I'm pretty pleased.   I hit a lot of good shots out there and made some good putts.   So I guess all in all, it was a pretty fair reflection on how I played.   Made a couple of good par saves.   Made a few birdies and really the only bad hole was the fourth hole.   The wind swirled a little bit and I didn't quite catch it and then came back down in the water. 
Unfortunately around here on a few occasions, I guess you're paying twice for a mistake, so after you drop it, you're standing in a 30‑degree bank in the Bermuda wishing for your ball to the to go back do you know in the water once again.   Doesn't really leave you much of a chance to make the up‑and‑down.   So I made five on that one.
But came back and many will made four birdies in a row between 6 and 9.   No, overall, happy with the way I'm playing and the way things are going. 

Q.   Can you talk about the first hole and your thoughts on that hole? 
HENRIK STENSON:   Well, I think the margins are so slim for that second shot.   You know, it's a little bit weird to have a second shot into there, and I'm decided to lay up, unless I've got perfect numbers for a shorter club, I'm laying up. 
So nine times out of ten, I would have gone for it on any other hole.   So that very skinny green sloping down towards the water, there's no way I'm going for that with a 4‑wood.   I just laid up with a 6‑iron and took my chance with a wedge and didn't make birdie.   But avoid any big numbers, as well.

Q.   What was your reaction when you saw Rory throw his club on No. 8? 
HENRIK STENSON:   Well, you know, it's hot out there.   We are sweating a lot.   Obviously that practice swing didn't work out and it just kind of ended up in the water.   Yeah it's a big issue that we don't have enough baby powder out there.

Q.   I know you've taken your pants off here but have you ever thrown a club?
HENRIK STENSON:   Yeah, I think I've thrown my fair share over the years.   Even though I'm pretty determined to keep my head on this week.

Q.   Given your experience in club pros‑‑
HENRIK STENSON:   It was a good release, yes. 

Q.   ‑‑ breaks and what‑have‑you, how would you judge Rory's form? 
HENRIK STENSON:   It was just, you know, he's a strong fellow for not the tallest guy, and he had good speed on that one, too.   You know, gets to the best of us or to all of us. 

Q.   When he did settle down, what did he say to you?   Did he laugh about it?
HENRIK STENSON:   Well, I was the first one to make a comment, yes.   (Laughter) takes one to know one you know. 

Q.   Can you share? 
HENRIK STENSON:   No.   Like I said, I've done my fair share of those kind of things over the years, so I'm not going to judge anyone on anything. 

Q.   Can this course be that frustrating to the point where‑‑
HENRIK STENSON:   Yeah, I mean, they are slim, and on that hole in particular, had quite a nice shot in there yesterday which was probably a foot from going in the water yesterday. 
So I mean, yeah, there's quite a few of those ones out there, where a couple of revolutions on the ball might make the difference between par or‑‑ he ended up with an eagle yesterday on that hole and if it roles down he has to scramble to try and make five from the same spot more or less. 
It can be a frustrating place and as always, as professionals, we have high expectations on our game and when it doesn't work out, sometimes it can get the best of us.   Be nice to him.   He's a good guy. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT