HERO WORLD CHALLENGE
December 6, 2014
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JOHN BUSH:   Henrik, just comment on your day, on your round.   
HENRIK STENSON:   Yeah, it was bit of a slow start.   Had a couple of unlucky breaks on the 3rd hole there and ended up against a tree and then lipped out on my par putt.   So bogeyed that one.   
Didn't get too much going on early on in the front nine.   Birdied 9 to turn even par, and then played pretty solid on the back nine.   Made four birdies and came very close there the last.   It was hanging up on the edge there to shoot 5‑under on the back.  
So pretty pleased with the back nine and the way the day turned out anyway considering I had a slow start.   All in all pretty happy with that.   Jordan played fantastic.   He didn't miss too many shots and had some great pitching around the greens and good putts.  
Extremely solid on his behalf.   I don't think anybody is going to catch him tomorrow unless he's having a really bad day.   Seems to be a one‑horse race going into Sunday.  
   
 Q.   What do you think of Jordan's game not just today but in general?  
HENRIK STENSON:   No, he's a very solid player and playing solid golf at a very young age.   He was chasing my tail there in the TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP there last year, and coming off a couple good weeks now with a win in Australia and I think he was second in Japan the week before.   
So he's in good shape.   He's very solid all the way around.   No real weaknesses.   We're going to see a lot of him in the years to come.  
   
 Q.   I know guys had a pretty good back and forth.   Anything out there on the course, any funny stories?   You guys joking around at all?  
HENRIK STENSON:   No, he felt bad on the 4th because he said, Good miss, and it went in the bunkers, so he felt a bit funny after that one.   
But, no, it's all good.   Like I said, I've known him for a couple years now and he's a great guy.   I wish him all the best for the final round.   
   
 Q.   (Question regarding Tiger. )  
HENRIK STENSON:   First of all, I haven't really seen anything.   I don't even know what he shot today.   We are keeping busy enough focusing on our own score and our own game out there.  
I don't know how he played today.   Any?   What did he shoot today?   
   
 Q.   69?  
HENRIK STENSON:   69?   Yeah, it's just good to just see him back healthy, though.   I heard him say he felt strong and healthy, which is the main thing.   
And then of course after being absent for a good four months it's going to be a bit rusty coming back into tournament play.   It wasn't like he was playing his absolute best when he went for this rehab break either.  
It's going to take some time.   I saw a couple of swings the first day for the warmup and they looked pretty good.   This course here, if you're trying to play this golf course aggressive off the tee and hitting a couple wide ones, it's easy to end up in someone's garden.   
If I understand it correctly, the first round he lost a couple of balls out of bounds, and that's going to kill the score.  
So sometimes he might not have played as bad as the score shows the first day, but he'll get in good shape.   Give him a bit of time, and, like I said, main thing is that he is back healthy.   I'm sure he'll be playing better in the near future.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT