VOLVO WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
October 19, 2014
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  HENRIK STENSON:   I actually exceeded my expectations for the week for sure already.   And already when Jonas took me to the 18th yesterday, I felt like we were running low on energy, and against Joost this morning, same thing.   So I don't know where I found that energy to finish that much off in the morning.   
So I was quite low on energy in the afternoon.   Feel like I've been battling my swing a little bit in these gusting conditions the last day and a half.   I didn't play my best.   I was a bit unlucky on a couple of putts but no question, Mikko didn't make any mistakes really and when he did, he recovered well.   So all the credit to him for his fine performance this week.   
   
 Q.   You went 3‑down must made a decent fight out of it.   
HENRIK STENSON:   Yeah, I think I had run out of energy already after the morning match.   I didn't have much to give in the afternoon to be honest and I feel like I battled my swing for the last day and a half in these breezy conditions.   The best I played was kind of in the middle of the week and it was more about hanging on here.   
Mikko didn't make any mistakes and when he did, he saved himself nicely.   The best player won in the afternoon and all credit for his fine performance this week.  
   
 Q.   Toughest conditions this week?  
HENRIK STENSON:   Absolutely by far.   Already in the morning it was much tougher.   It's been very low scoring and you had to make a lot of birdies and possibly eagles to win holes and changed around a little bit today.   Felt like it was more still birdies to win obviously but it was more holes being won on pars today than any other day.   So it was tougher conditions.   
   
 Q.   And knowing you had a game in the afternoon, would have been nice to finish early this morning but George pressed you.   
HENRIK STENSON:   I felt when he took me up 18 I got away with it, going to get another 36 out of this and this morning I managed to pull a white rabbit out of the last to move on to the final which was nice.   I felt more like trying to hang on and hopefully come in being square coming into the last couple holes and then try and make something happen.   I didn't have the game to go up early in the match.   
   
 Q.   And the overall experiences of the week?  
HENRIK STENSON:   Yeah, it's all fun to play match play.   It's been a good, fun week with the boys.   We all stayed in the same place.   It's also a long, hard week and takes even more out of you because you have to be there all the time and especially when you have a lot of matches coming into the last hole, that takes that extra bit of energy out of you.   It's been a draining week but a fun week.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT