BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 7, 2014
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Defending FedExCup champ.  How much disappointment that you won't be back at East Lake to defend?HENRIK STENSON: Three percent.  No, I'm in desperate need of some rest.  I was in a win/win situation in that sense, coming in here needing a really strong week to have a chance to come back. But, of course, it's a little disappointment not making it back.  East Lake is a really great golf course and, I would really like to come back and defend and to play it again.  But it wasn't to be this year. But, I finally get a bit of a break.  You know, if you got some of the guys who are playing 66 percent of my schedule are worn out and struggling, I guess you can understand that I'm a little bit fatigued as well.Q. Big event for you in a couple weeks, what do you do between now and then?HENRIK STENSON: I'm staying about 10 days in Orlando.  So, get about four or five days complete rest.  I really need that. Get in a bit of practice, and then head over to Sweden for a few days and get rid of the jet lag, and then fly into Gleneagles on that Monday, midday. So, I'm really looking forward to the Ryder Cup, and I'm getting my rest.  So, I'm pretty happy as of now.Q. You said that the clubs are definitely going away for the next two weeks?HENRIK STENSON: No, not for two weeks, but for the next five days or so.  Five or six days. Like I said there, if you got guys who are playing 66 percent of my schedule, complaining that they're worn out, and I played 31 tournaments, had no off season and going into another 28 week season.  So, you can understand that I'm a little bit low as well. Now, I felt like I never really -- I squeezed whatever I had at the PGA and then straight into the playoffs, really.  I made a little bit of a mistake trying to practice on the back end of the week off after the PGA, instead of giving myself a complete week with rest. And then I have just been struggling.  I haven't been playing poorly by any means.  But, when you're not quite there focus-wise, and energy-wise, and so on, and my putting has been pretty poor, as well. But ball striking has been -- there's been pretty good weeks ball striking-wise, and as you can see in the results, it's just been -- I have one bad day and then I pick myself up, have a decent day the next, and then have a flat one the next. It's a little bit of an up-and-down all over.  One or two bad rounds and a couple of really great ones and some in between. So, I'm really looking forward to the Ryder Cup and to get the rest, get some practice, head over to Sweden for the weekend before, and see you all at Gleneagles.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT