PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 8, 2014
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How challenging were the conditions out there? 
HENRIK STENSON:   It was a little softer.   Yeah, it's pretty messy out there.   It's soaking wet.   We're playing the ball down, which in my book is not the best idea.   It's challenging at times.   And also pitching some of those cute little pitches around the green when it's this wet and it kind of gives way, it gets your attention.   That's for sure. 

Q.   The rain makes the course longer, but makes the green softer, which of those two was greater today? 
HENRIK STENSON:   It's been fairly easy to stop the ball even earlier in the week.   It's more that you are not getting any run really on the fairways.   You are hitting a lot of shots with very wet conditions around the golf ball and of course that's going to make it a little bit more challenging. 
Then it picks up a fair amount of mud at times as well.   Like I said, it's a bit messy.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
HENRIK STENSON:   Surprised.   I've played a few of these before.   That never seems to be the most favorable decision to play in hand.   I definitely think we should have played the ball up today.   I wouldn't be surprised if I'm the only one thinking that.   I would have expected to have a few moans from the guys who stood on the golf course for 50 minutes in the pouring down rain before carrying on the round as well.   Maybe the guys in recording, they said it was a tough morning.   I can only agree with them.   I didn't play great today, but perhaps they made a few bogeys themselves.

Q.   How much longer can this golf course play? 
HENRIK STENSON:   You are getting no run.   So I guess it's a good 20, 25 yards off the tee balls and with it being so wet on the fairways, you are losing a bit of compression on the second shots as well.   I guess every hole would play roughly 30 yards longer with than it would have been with a bit of bounce and firmer conditions.   It's playing longer. 
I would say the 2nd is going to play long.   16 is fairly long one.   And 17, they moved the tee back.   I guess they didn't like to see too many sand irons in there yesterday.   It was playing long.   There's also a few shorter ones.   As always, you got to be pretty cautious with some of those pin positions too. 
6 is a long hole as well.   We all hit wood into that one today.

Q.   How were the reads? 
HENRIK STENSON:   The putting kept me in the game.   I didn't have a great day ball striking wise.   I missed too many fairways definitely.   That put me in trouble a few times.   My putting kept me in the game.   I made a few good saves and one or two good birdie putts.   All in all, I have to take it.   Id I didn't have a great day out there, but I still kept it together and that's a positive.   Couple of minutes on the range hopefully and we have the turn it up a bit over the weekend if we want to move forward from here on.

Q.   When you play on the rain like today, what do you struggle with most?
HENRIK STENSON:   Staying dry. 

Q.   Does it affect your grip? 
HENRIK STENSON:   It's just a bit more‑‑ just takes more time.   You have got to wait for your caddie get the clubs wiped and put them back in and so on.   I don't think too many guys like to play in rain gear normally.   That's obviously one thing.   You try to play without the rain gear as much as you can.   There's always that break even point when you have to play and swing in the rain jacket.   That the most challenging part.

Q.   Is that restricting?
HENRIK STENSON:     Yeah, a little bit.   Even though we've got good gear, it feels like it show slows you down a little bit.

Q.   How happy are you with your position?
HENRIK STENSON:     It's still early to say where we're going to be.   So far so good.   I think I'm three or four shots behind at the moment.   It could be more than that by the end of the day.   There's still a lot of golf to be played.   It's more of a question if I can turn it up a notch.   Like I said, today wasn't a great day for me so I need to play better over the weekend. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT