THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 17, 2014
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  HENRIK STENSON: No, good.  I figured anything under par would have been a good start.  We had perfect weather and the golf course was quite receptive.  I felt I could possibly shoot a pretty good score.  I got derailed with the double bogey on 6.  Actually didn't hit such a bad shot but it plugged in the bunker and I couldn't get it out. So other than that I felt like I played really well.  I struck the ball well.  I hit most of them on line.  I'm feeling pretty good.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  HENRIK STENSON: I felt like I played a lot better than I was at 2-over par for 15 holes.  I felt like the same amount of effort possibly could have been 2-under, 3-under.  So it was nice to get some breaks at the end there.  I suppose the golf course also allows you with the two par 5s on the last three holes to make a run at it.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  HENRIK STENSON: Probably the first 11, 12 holes was pretty much as good as you're going to get in a British Open. And then the breeze picked up a little bit.  But it's still really warm.  So it's not influencing it too much.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  HENRIK STENSON: I am, yeah.  Like I said, after a month normally it's difficult to tell what it's going to be like in tournament play.  It felt great in practice.  So I was pleased to come out and feel really in control of the game.  And that's all I can ask for.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  HENRIK STENSON: No, I mean it's just mistakes that's causing me to shoot around level par.  I'm making enough birdies, I'm hitting the ball good enough, giving myself enough chances, just -- I make bogey with wedge up in the middle of the fairway and a 7-iron from the par 3 tee box.  I lose three shots in those two holes, where you shouldn't be losing any shots with those sort of clubs.  If I can eliminate those sort of mistakes, those three shots better, and yet 4-under par, one off the leader, it really is very close to being a lot better, I would think, in golf terms.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT