BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 27, 2014
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How are you finding putting out on those greens?   Are you finding them hard to read?   Do you like putting on poa annua? 
HENRIK STENSON:   The first question is yes, the second one might be no, at least in the spring/summertime, when the seeding. 
Yeah, I find it a little bit tricky to read them.   I have not been putting my best, that's for sure.   It might not be my favourite surface early doors.   In the fall, they are great.   Early doors, maybe not so.   But they are rolling pretty good I'd say. 
Yeah, I just didn't make any putts.   I played all right.   Made some good birdies, and then just made a mess out of the par 5s, four pars and you're losing an easy two to three shots on the field on that.   That's really the only disappointment scoring‑wise that I didn't pick up any shots on the par 5s.

Q.   You're still right there, still right amongst it, two rounds to go.   These guys are going deep out there.   How deep do you think you have to go to hold trophy aloft on Sunday?
HENRIK STENSON:   Deeper than they are apparently.   It's always hard to know what the weather is going to be like and what the scores are going to be like.   The air is normally a little thinner on a Sunday and you can always catch some guys if you're playing well early doors.   But still a long way to go, and we'll try and throw something better than a 68 in the future. 

Q.   A couple of 68s to start with; would four be enough, do you think? 
HENRIK STENSON:   No, I don't think so.   Seems like the scoring is actually a little bit better than I thought originally when I saw it.   I think the thick stuff was here and felt like the greens were still fairly firm and so on, but we've had no wind and good days, two days of good weather.   So scoring has been good and as you can see on the leaderboard, there's a lot of minus 10s, 11s and 12s up there, so you can shoot some low numbers if you want to hold this trophy. 

Q.   You must have been aware of the big numbers around you.   Were you getting frustrated? 
HENRIK STENSON:   Yeah, I had some good chances that I missed and that's always going to be frustrating.   More than anything it was my play on the par 5s that killed my score.   I had a chance to shoot an easy 6‑, 7‑under today and I only made four pars on the par 5s. 
I'm bogey‑free through 36, but it still feels like I made a couple of bogeys only walking away with fives on a few of those that played pretty short, and just a couple of bad tee shots and didn't get up‑and‑down when I needed to. 
So I'll have to do better tomorrow if I want to catch or makeup some ground on the leaders.

Q.   I'm sure you've set yourself some goals for this year.   What's the big target, a major? 
HENRIK STENSON:   Yeah, it's to play well in the Majors.   Give yourself a chance to win there.   It's going to take a lot to win one but it's about giving yourself the opportunities and without Martin playing so great at the U.S. Open, I guess I was right up there in the mix.   
             I didn't play my best on the Sunday but I was still there or thereabouts and that's where you need to keep it if you want to win golf tournaments.   That's why I won a bunch last year.   I was there every week more or less in the fall and then you're going to walk away with a few.

Q.   You have something else to worry about in the fall, as well. 
HENRIK STENSON:   Yeah, we've got the third one on its way, so I'm pretty much guaranteed that I'm done after this one, but it's going to be exciting times, back to diapers, sleepless nights and carrying all the prams and everything else around.   We'll see how we manage this time.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT