OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 31, 2014
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   When are your thoughts on moving yourself into this position on the tournament? 
HENRIK STENSON:   No, I was happy with my round today.   I didn't drop any shots out there and especially my putter was working fine for me and I had a couple of really, really good putts that didn't go in, so could have been a few better but 5‑under is always a good score and at least we are moving in the right direction on the leaderboard.

Q.   And it is the form on the greens that's making the difference compared to day one?
HENRIK STENSON:   I would say so.   Yesterday I had three 3‑putts and you're never going to shoot your best score if you've got that on the scorecard.   So it was a better day in general, and especially on the greens, and you know, a couple of nice iron shots to set up some birdies as well.

Q.   Presumably it's helped when you've played as well as you've done in the Champions Challenge and walk away with some nice prize money from that. 
HENRIK STENSON:   Yeah, that wasn't a bad Tuesday, was it.   So, yeah, that was by far the best I've played this year.   I didn't play as good as I did on Tuesday, either yesterday or today but it's still a work‑in‑progress, still early on in the year and I'm not worried by any means.   So I'll just keep working away and hopefully we'll get on a good run again. 

Q.   And your familiarity with the track, that must help? 
HENRIK STENSON:   Yeah, of course.   I played‑‑ I wouldn't say millions of times but I've played a lot of golf around here, and you know where to go and where not to and certain wind directions give you opportunities off the tee and where you've got to be a bit careful.   There's not too many courses I know better than the Majelis at the Emirates Golf Club. 

Q.   You're in a nice position?
HENRIK STENSON:   Absolutely.   We'll see where we're at the end of the day but I did my bit, I shot a good score and still another two days to keep on moving up if I play well.   So I'm happy. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT