TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN BY THE MINISTRY OF CULTURE AND TOURISM
November 10, 2013
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Assess your week overall.   
HENRIK STENSON:   I think I played pretty good this week.   I feel like I left a ton of chances out there.   A couple of nines, the putter was really good and a couple of nines it was not good at all.   I left a lot of chances and made some simple mistakes, and you know, when we assess it now, I'm seventh or whatever, and I feel like I should have been a bit higher up.  
But overall, I came up on the back nine today with four birdies.   I was lucky a few of the other guys came through for me, and picking up some big prize cheques, and I think that's going to keep me in the lead still going into Dubai.   
So some rest the next couple of days and just give it my all the last week.  
   
 Q.   Assess the status of your wrist and how concerned are you going into next week?  
HENRIK STENSON:   Well, actually it didn't feel good yesterday.   It feels a little bit better today.   
So I hope if I maybe pull out of the Pro‑Am and give it two days full rest, maybe I can do a light practice session on Wednesday and go.   It's obviously going to affect my preparations but it's been like that for the last three weeks, so just do the best I can.   
Yeah, long‑term, I just hope I'm not damaging anything that's going to take longer to get fixed later on.   So as of now, I don't see that should be a problem playing, but my preparation is going to be affected.   
   
 Q.   Given the condition of the wrist and the way you played the first two tournaments and the beginning of the tournament, would you have taken a tied seventh place?   
HENRIK STENSON:   Yeah, I think so.   I think so.   You know, I definitely would have taken a 30th the first week when I couldn't move my hand at all on the Tuesday evening.  
It's been better.   I played pretty nicely.   I hit a lot of good shots but I haven't hit it well enough.   Some spells have been good on the greens but there's been a lot of bad putts and short putts missed, as well.   
So I feel like I've left a ton of chances out there and when you're coming‑‑ you sum up the four days and I'm this close to the winning score, you know, four or five shots behind it, I feel like it could have been even my week this week the way I played and the chances I gave myself.   
But you've got to do a bit better.   I'm still happy with the Top‑10 and thanks to a few of the other guys, yeah, I've still got the lead heading into the last week.   Just give it some rest.   My preparation is going to be less than I would have liked, but again, I've played Jumeirah Golf Estates so many times, so hopefully I shouldn't have to be further behind than he need to due to that.   So the most important thing is to get healthy long‑term, and be able to play next week.   
   
 Q.   How many holes do you think you'll play before Thursday?   
HENRIK STENSON:   I'm going to speak to my physio and see what he wants.   Might be a case of pulling out of the Pro‑Am on Tuesday.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT