TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN BY THE MINISTRY OF CULTURE AND TOURISM
November 9, 2013
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What's the verdict today, please?  
HENRIK STENSON:   I got off to a good start, made two quick birdies, then not too much happening and then I got on a good stretch again 13, 14, 15.   Disappointing bogey on the last.   But that happens.   
   
 Q.   But still in a good position?  
HENRIK STENSON:   Yeah, I think so.   I mean, Dubuisson seems to be playing really well; he's kind of pulled away.   But then it's a tight race for second, five, six guys tied on second position at the moment.   
Yeah, still some hope there for tomorrow.   You know, one more day.  
   
 Q.   A silly question, but what's necessary?   Low score?  
HENRIK STENSON:   Yeah, absolutely.   We knew when we came in it was going to be a low‑scoring week, and you've got to take your chances.   I've both kind of done that and not did the same.   It's just tough out there.   
I think it's probably one of the top‑three hardest crowds to play in front of.   There's so many mobile phones going off all the time, and it gets pretty annoying to be honest in the end and patience is running a little low.  
   
 Q.   But yet, still in a nice position, Race to Dubai?   
HENRIK STENSON:   Yeah, absolutely.   Try to finish strong tomorrow and carry on to next week.  
   
 Q.   Do have to ask about wrist.   
HENRIK STENSON:   Yeah, like I said it desperately needs rest and recovery time and I don't have that at the moment, so I'm just trying to scrape by and it's going to be limited preparations Order of Merit sure for next week and try to do the best.   
   
 Q.   1‑under par for 12 holes and then three birdies in a row and bogey at the last, how do you sum that one up?   
HENRIK STENSON:   Overall I'm not unhappy‑‑ disappointing bogey on the last.   I got off to a hot start but I didn't capitalise on a good tee shot on 4 and made a good par 5 an 5 and dropped one on 7.   I didn't make the most out of the front nine that's for sure.   Missed one or two chances, got on a good run and disappointing finish.   
Tough day out there and I'm not sure if anyone in my group hit a shot without being disrupted by a camera or mobile phone.   So it's starting to tear a little bit on the patience in the end and a bit disappointed with that to be honest.  
   
 Q.   Give us an update on the wrist.   You were saying yesterday it's getting worse.   How is it today?  
HENRIK STENSON:   It kind of stays the same.   It's in desperate need of some rest and some recovery time, and I can't really give it that at the moment.   So I'm just trying to hope it's not getting any worse.   It's inflamed.   It's a bit stiff.   But I'm still not bothered too much when I'm hitting shots, that's for sure.   So that's the good part.   Yeah, we'll just take it one day at a time.   
   
 Q.   Victor looks like he's going to have a good lead obviously, but you're in a position where you've been in contention so much recently and with all that experience to draw on, and tomorrow you could make history; how exciting is that?  
HENRIK STENSON:   I'm just going to go out and try to play my game again.   I hit a lot of good shots out there.   I didn't necessarily make birdies on the good ones that I hit, but just hang in there, a new day and try to give myself chances and put some pressure if that's an option.   
   
 Q.   You say you're annoyed.   Talk us through the 18th.   
HENRIK STENSON:   Yeah, just off a good tee shot, I blocked it a bit right and got a bad break and bounce, and played a poor bunker shot from a difficult lie but it was still a poor effort.   Made six at the last from a good tee shot; that's never going to cheer you up, is it.   
So I got off to a good start to the round with two quick birdies and then not too much happening on the front nine, dropped one and then got on a good string on 12, 13, 14, 15, birdied those.   18, disappointing finish.   
Tough day concentration‑wise.   All of the players in our group had to back off so many times, with so many photos being taken and mobile phones.   If the crowd could just turn the sound off, it would have been all right, but they keep insisting of making us aware of it.  
   
 Q.   Probably one of the down sides to playing in a country not necessarily familiar with the game of golf.   
HENRIK STENSON:   Yeah, I can agree to one part.   But to be honest, there's a lot, a lot of golfing tourists that are out there.   It not the local crowds really.   So I'm not sure if I'm going to become popular with them when I'm complaining on them.   
But it's such an easy thing, if you go to a golf tournament to turn the sound off and then you can take as many pictures as you want without the flash.   No one is going to hear it, but they keep resisting doing that.  
   
 Q.   Sorry to be repetitive but I need to ask about the status of the wrist.   
HENRIK STENSON:   Yeah, it's not really any worse.   I'm playing‑‑ I feel pretty good when I'm playing and there's no pain hitting the golf shots.   But it's inflamed and it's a bit stiff and obviously every shot is taking it in the wrong direction.   
It's in desperate need of some time off and recovery and   I can't give it just yet.   I'm hanging in there day by day, and final day tomorrow, try to do something good here.   And then it's going to be limited preparations again in Dubai for the final week.   
   
 Q.   Tiger referenced the greens as possibly the slowest greens he's ever putted on as a pro; would you agree with that?   
HENRIK STENSON:   No.   They are not that slow, especially not for someone growing up in Europe.   But I mean, they are a bit hairy and compared to what he's used to from the states, it's definitely slower.   So I don't know if they are the slowest ones.   We can have an arm wrestling about that one.   
   
 Q.   Thoughts on the day.   
HENRIK STENSON:   I'm in a good position, got off to a good start and I'm up there, happy with that.   I'm feeling pretty good about my game.   It's the best it's felt over these three weeks into The Final Series, so positive still for tomorrow.   Disappointed with the finish.   I'll cool down in a couple minutes and I'll be all right.   
You know, it's never fun to finish with a bogey on a par 5 when you're in the middle of the fairway after a drive.   But still in good position.   Feeling okay with the game.   Wrist was holding up today.   It's in desperate need of some rest, and just going to try to hang in there another day, try to give it some rest leading into the last week in Dubai.  
   
 Q.   Can you just talk a little bit about the challenges of playing in a tournament which has not really staged an event of this magnitude in the past?  
HENRIK STENSON:   Yeah, it's wearing on our patience I think.   When it's that many photos being taken and that many mobile phones with the sound on, if they would just turn the sound off, we wouldn't have much of an issue.   
And it's not local really.   There's a lot of golfing tourists that are here watching the golf this week, and you know, being out with Tiger is always going to be a bit of extra buzz around.   
But it's such an easy thing to do, if you go to a golf tournament, turn the sound off your mobile phone and turn the flash off, and it's happy days, no one is going to be bothered.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT