DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 13, 2018
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. After missing out last year due to injury, how nice is it to be back here in Dubai?
HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, it's nice to be back.  I almost missed out due to injury this year, as well, so no, delighted to be able to come and play.  Obviously a place that I've got very good memories.  I've won here twice in the past.
I guess my expectations will be a bit lower this year, not having played since The Ryder Cup and only done light practise this last week.  You might say that we're not quite there yet, but we'll be here.  We'll be out there having a bit of a fun week, anyway, and see what we can do.
Q. As you say, two-time winner around this golf course, 2013, 2014.  What is it about the game that was so special those weeks?
HENRIK STENSON: Well, I was playing incredibly well in 2013.  I had a chance to win both The Race to Dubai and the FedExCup in the same year, and I was in a good position.  I was being chased by Ian Poulter, my friend and neighbor, and yeah, I just knew I had to play really well, and of course, if I could win the tournament, I knew things were going to be ending up the way I wanted.
Yeah, I managed to do that.  I played really, really solid.
Q. A couple of Top 10s in majors this year.  How would you sum it up for you?  As you say, a bit frustrating this year.
HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, haven't played my best but hasn't been a poor year, either.  Career-best fifth at Augusta and a sixth at the U.S. Open.  Really happy with the performances those weeks.  Despite not bringing my A Game, it was still strong performances.
And had a couple of good tournaments in the spring, as well.  But then from the summer onwards with a bit of injury, it wasn't great.
But the highlight of the year certainly is The Ryder Cup.  Came in there with maybe not the best form and still managed to get three out of three points.  Of course, I had a strong partner that helped me out in that.
But yeah, very happy to play well at The Ryder Cup.  It was a great week, and all in all, pretty pleased with the year, anyway.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT