BMW MASTERS PRESENTED BY SRE GROUP
October 27, 2013
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How is the injury?  
HENRIK STENSON:   It's fine.   It was just, I came off four weeks without a tournament.   I had four or five good practice days in Orlando, mainly short game and putting, and then I was going to see and work with Pete here pretty hard on Monday afternoon, Tuesday, Wednesday, and then I was not hitting a shot Monday, not hitting a shot Tuesday and managed to get out in the Pro‑Am on Wednesday.   
So, you know, a little bit off with the long game, and you know, it took a couple days to get going.   I've had a couple of good sessions with Pete and last night we had a good session.   I hit it miles better today.   Got it going and hit a few nice putts on the back nine, as well.   
   
 Q.   That was the key was it, long game?   
HENRIK STENSON:   Yeah, I've struggled.   I find it very hard to find the lines on the greens.   I did the same last year.   Certain weeks, certain types of courses and green design, it kind of suits you better or worse, and this is not one that I see a lot of putts made for myself, which is obviously a greater challenge to make them then.   
It's a lot, even on shorter putts, it's a lot of double and triple breaks on these ones, which personally I have it easier when it's kind of a sweeping break, no matter if it's big or small.   Here, it's hit it left and all of a sudden it takes it‑‑ within the sections, there's little breaks.   That's the trickiness of that, and then it's a personal preference whether you like that design or not.  
   
 Q.   Will that be a problem next week, as well?   Have you had problems there in the past?  
HENRIK STENSON:   I think they are a bit more straightforward next week if I recall.   I didn't play last year for sure‑‑ I think I played it the last time we played there.   No, it's a course I enjoy playing that one.   If I recall, the greens are a little bit easy.   Like I said, certain courses, you see it easier, and this one I'm struggling a little bit.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT