THE RYDER CUP
September 30, 2018
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Is this one of the best celebrations, the best feelings you've had after a Ryder Cup success?
HENRIK STENSON: Absolutely.  We always knew it had the potential, Paris, this golf course, wanted to win the Cup back.  I was one of the guys who was there to lose it two years ago, so that little bit of extra revenge makes it feel even sweeter.  So amazing team.  We've had such a good week together and feel really honored to play with these guys.  They have done amazing.  We've had so much fun and to come out here in front of the home crowds to deliver, that's very special.
Q. One of the most impressive things is the quality of this U.S. side heading in, everybody saying on paper, people looking at the World Rankings.  What does it mean to get the job done against a side full of major winners?
HENRIK STENSON: It makes it even more special but at the same time we knew we had -- the strength and depth on our side was as good as it's ever been and we have a lot of players having amazing seasons.  You never know, anything in this game; we've seen that but to come together and deliver the points like we have done has been truly special and very happy to be a part of it.
Q. What does home advantage mean, the support, this week, the setup of the golf course?
HENRIK STENSON: I know you have an earpiece in, but you've heard them, right?  It lifts you, when things are the no going your way, they still carry you on and you are just so eager to make a putt because they are all going to explode and cheer for you, whether it's going good or bad.  Good crowds and more Swede, as well, than I've ever seen at Ryder Cups.  Paris is a popular place.  It's going to be a long night and one week to remember forever.
Q. Captain Björn has done a tremendous job this week.  For you, what has he done particularly well?
HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, I was never worried.  I knew he was going to do a good job.  He's been doing that for a long, long time.  Obviously this is the week where it's all going to be decided.  He spent endless hours -- when you are a little bit older and you get a little bit more of an insight into what's going on, you realise how many endless hours he and Grace and the whole Ryder Cup Team Europe has put into this and everyone that's helped out.
Anything from nutrition to whatever it might be this week, it's been great, and a lot of good tactical decisions, as well.  I'm sure there were a few people looking at certain pairings and wondering why is he playing not there and this and that, but it's all about getting the pairings that you think are going to produce the most point out there and they certainly did that this week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT