THE BARCLAYS
August 22, 2013
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   All in all, nine birdies, you get it in the house at 6‑under par, pretty good playing in the first round here at Liberty National?
HENRIK STENSON:   Yeah, I'm very pleased with that.   To be honest preparation‑wise, I came in from Europe on Monday night, so I'm a bit jet‑lagged and I only saw the course once.   I'm very pleased with the way I played out there and took advantage of some good shots, and it was a little bit of a shaky finish. 
I bogeyed the 8th, the par5, which is never that great, but then I made a nice par putt on 9, which is a tougher hole.   All in all, very pleased with the first round.

Q.   How difficult is a day like this?   I'm sure you're in desperate need of a nap at this point. 
HENRIK STENSON:   Yeah, it's been a long day, I don't know, 14 hours, third time lucky getting it done.   Yeah, alarm clock at 5:00 in the morning, and at 7:00 we are just finishing out.   So it's been a long day for everyone. 
But luckily we got the first round in, and yeah, got some good practice of night golf, because that's what we are going to have tomorrow night when we start our second round I guess.

Q.   Your impression of the golf course, especially with the back drop of the New York City skyline?
HENRIK STENSON:   Yeah, fantastic, first time playing here like I said and just marvelous seeing Manhattan and the Statue of Liberty in the background on a few of the holes.   Neat place and glad to be here. 

Q.   What were the conditions like, did the dampness make it any easier? 
HENRIK STENSON:   Obviously you can throw whatever clubs you're throwing in there are just stopping, but again, you've got to watch your spin.   I think that's pretty similar to what we had at Oak Hill there.   It doesn't necessarily make it that much easier when it gets soft, because you've got to watch the spin on every shot and not everywhere you can throw it past and then bring it back. 
So you know, I think it probably breaks even.   Yeah, if it's a little firmer, you have to hit a quality shot in to stop it, but again, you're not going to have any issues with spinning it back.   Yeah, it's target golf. 

Q.   Talk about the Playoffs, looking forward to it? 
HENRIK STENSON:   Yeah, it's a busy run.   For me this is my 22nd tournament, and we are mid or late August.   I've played a lot of golf, but I kind of had to with my position at the beginning of the year and play my way into the Top‑50, and of course, when I've tried hard and fought well to get in there, you're not going to play all the events that you wanted to get into. 
So I'm trying to squeeze whatever I have these two weeks, get a nice break that week in between and a little practice and then hopefully come firing on all cylinders for the last two.   But I can't knock the start I've had here today, as well, even though didn't feel that great to start with.   But obviously after the second rain delay here, I got on a run and made some nice putts and put myself in a nice position.   6‑under in the first round is never a bad start anywhere.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT