PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 11, 2013
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Comment about your round.   
HENRIK STENSON:   Happy with my performance, I think I kept it together nicely.   Made a bit of a charge, made a good birdie on 13, bit unlucky, ended up in a divot just short of the green on 14, ended up making bogey there, and that kind of killed the outside chances I had on the back nine to make a charge.   
I didn't play my best today but I was still hanging in there.   Made a great eagle on 4 and that kind of put me back in a good momentum again.   
And then I 3‑putted 7, great birdie on 8.   I didn't really get going 100percent.   I was one of the guys who needed to make up some shots.   
The guys behind are playing good, so all credit to them.   And they've done a great tournament.   Not sure exactly how it's finishing now, but if Jason is winning there, I mean, 4‑under through 16 in the final round, that is some good golfing.   So all credit to them.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
HENRIK STENSON:   It was one of them if I'm chasing and I'm two behind, I need a birdie.   The worst way is a par.   Ended up plugging it in a bunker after duffing it in there from the Sunday divot.   It's one of them I can't afford that at that time.   We said it before, especially if you're a little behind and you need to make up some ground at these events, that could be the make it or break it.   
It's all written in the stars if it would have been a different scenario.   Like I said, I'm happy and proud of my performance.   Didn't play my absolute best today, that's for sure.   I was still giving it a good fight and I had an unbelievable round and some great tournaments in the last month.   
I will take a lot of positives out of that, got a lot of big tournaments still this is year, the whole FedExCup and the whole final series on the Race to Dubai, so we have got plenty of tournaments to challenge that, and then we have got four majors next year.  
Really excited, gonna work hard on my game and hopefully be even better so I can even play other Sunday divots.   
   
 Q.   Did you have a number in mind?   
HENRIK STENSON:   I thought I needed to get to double figures and that's for sure.   Like I said, all credit to the guys behind.   They played some good golf.   To be 4‑under there with the pressure of being in the last group, that is good golfing from Jason.   I mean, I thought double figures for sure.   You never know, but that's what I had in mind.   To have a chance you need to get to 10‑under at least.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
HENRIK STENSON:   No, I don't know.   I mean, they got it a bit mixed up.   It's golf we're playing here.   They like to shout a few hockey names.   I don't know what's up with that, but I recognized most of the names they were shouting anyway.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT