PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 10, 2013
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
HENRIK STENSON:   It was a tough grind out there today.   The breeze was making it pretty tricky for us, and it was hard work.   I definitely felt all that hard work starting to take its toll coming into the last couple of holes, but I managed to mobilize some energy and keep it together.   
I had a good finish the last couple of holes, which are tough holes.   Very pleased with my round today, 1‑under.   Go home and rest and get ready for tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
HENRIK STENSON:   Yeah, I mean, I was putting nicely out there.   That was key.   I have done‑‑ twodays I've hit driver on 12, trying to get it up.   I've been in the rough and I had some horrific lies, and I haven't managed to shift it onto the green either time.   
See what we're doing tomorrow, if we're going to be fourth time lucky tomorrow.   
Made some great saves on 12, and especially the one today on a tough pin.   Got it back and made like a 15‑footer with a bit of break for par and then two straight birdies off the dot.   So it's one of those things to just keep the momentum going and stay in the match.   It was nice to see that onedrop, I have to admit.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
HENRIK STENSON:   Yeah, I mean, I saw that he was making a charge early.   Congratulations to him for making such a great score today.   66 is a heck of a round out there in these conditions.   
We've touched on the subject.   No Swede has won a major before, and we're definitely increasing the chances with having two guys up there rather than one or none.   So we're going to go out there and try our best tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Jim Furyk says this course suits him.   What do you think about him being in the top position coming in?   
HENRIK STENSON:   I mean, it's a new day tomorrow.   It obviously suits him if he is leading.   You are not going to argue with that.   
It's all about going out there and staying in the game.   And when the back nine comes, hopefully I'm up there with a chance.   And we'll see how the chips fall down.   And I'm just excited to be in this position once again and within striking distance.   Very pleased with my performance.  
   
 Q.   Were you surprised to see so many early bogeys with the guys on top of the leaderboard?  
HENRIK STENSON:   I think it shows how tricky it was with the breeze and it's not an easy golf course.   We know that even though we might have made it look a little easier at times earlier in the week due to the soft conditions, but when a breeze is swirling around and you have got hazards close by on a few of the holes, the margin for error is very slim.   
And on 5, it comes up a couple of yards short and spins back and all of a sudden it's in the water and you end up making double.   The shots are going quickly then and sometimes you have just got to‑‑ even if you have a short club, you still have got to be very careful and control spin and maybe stick to 20 feet behind the hole instead of being greedy.   
Yeah, it'll be an interesting day tomorrow.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT