PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 9, 2013
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
HENRIK STENSON:   Big difference compared to yesterday.   I hit pretty much all of the fairways today.   
I gave it a pop on 12.   That's been my strategy.   I hit a nice drive, but it just run out in the rough and gave me a horrible lie, had to hack short of the green to make up and down.  
Then on 14, I tried to get it up there with a 3‑wood to leave myself a pitch, and I did.   Those ones were kind of calculated ones.   
Other than that I hit every fairway.   That was a big difference compared to yesterday.   Hit some solid iron shots into positions and rolled a couple nice birdie putts in.   Missed one or two short opportunities, but then I made up for it with one or two good par saves.   Very pleased with it.   Bogey‑free is not easy to get away with.   I had to make a slick little 5‑footer on the last there for my par.   That would have been a bit sour.   
I missed a short one yesterday for par on the 9th, my last hole.   Kind of put myself in the same situation today.   Very pleased with the way I played my way around the course.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
HENRIK STENSON:   Well, it's obviously soft.   I had a couple of mud balls out there.   I don't know, we'll see if it gets worse or better tomorrow in that department.   That's a little tricky.   If you hit it straight down the middle and you get up there and you have got a bit of mud on the ball, that's always nice.   
Other than that, of course, with the rain and all the play on the greens, they were a little bit bumpy and trodded up.   So it's not the nicest to stand over a 5‑footer in a little bit of a break and with the sun off the side so you can see some of the footprints, you know.   There's easier things to do than make those once.   I managed to do it and halfway through, we're in a good spot.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
HENRIK STENSON:   Yeah, yeah, I mean, I'm just trying to stick to my game plan and my game.   Obviously, I'm executing that pretty well and keep it under control.   So I'm just going to keep on doing that for two days.   Still a long ways to go.   I'm just pleased to be up in another big event and be in a good position heading into the weekend.   
A lot of things can happen from here on, so just keep my head down, try my hardest and hopefully I'm one of the guys who's still up there on Sunday afternoon.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
HENRIK STENSON:   Yeah, I mean, I definitely felt like I played better last week at times than I did at the Open.   
Today my striking was much better than yesterday.   I was struggling, like I said, off the tee more than anything yesterday.   I'm playing good golf, no question about it.   It's just keep the old melon on and plod away and see where it takes us.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT