WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 1, 2013
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about what happened with the shoes at the turn?   
HENRIK STENSON:   It was just I had a new pair of shoes this week, and I played nine Tuesday and nine Wednesday, and I didn't feel anything then, but then today just started to eat away a little bit on my right heel.   Normally it's not an issue, but with that pair it kind of started eating away.   I felt I had a blister coming along, so I was asking if somebody could bring my old pair out.   
Might not match the outfit perfectly, but it felt like I got socks on compared to the other one when I made the switch at the turn.   It was good.   The blister popped on 17.   But we'll be all right.  
   
 Q.   Didn't affect your play on the front side?  
HENRIK STENSON:   No, no, but it would have been a pain to continue with the same pair, so it was a good switch.   
   
 Q.   Can you just talk about the momentum of the last month for you?   
HENRIK STENSON:   Yeah, I mean, I've been‑‑ it's been coming along nicely.   I played‑‑ at the U.S. Open I did some good scoring, but it was more a grind, and then in Munich, the final round in Munich, I played really, really solid tee to green.   Scottish Open, I had a great scoring round the second day but more than anything the third round was really good at the Scottish tee to green.   And then at the British I hit a lot of good shots but I didn't feel like I played perfect there by any means, so it was definitely better here today than it was at the Open Championship.   
It's in the right direction and feels like it's coming along and moving in the right direction for sure.   
   
 Q.   Last time you were here in 2010, you kind of struggled.   
HENRIK STENSON:   Yeah, I was sick.   That one was a bit of a write‑off.   I saved Tiger from being lost, didn't I?   I had like a viral pneumonia that I didn't know of, and in and out of hospital back and forth.   I guess I'm not taking any‑‑ I'm not carrying any baggage from that performance.   
2005, I think was my first time here, and I played well in the first round and I ended up finishing, I think, just outside top 10.   
Other than that I kind of struggled here to have any good finishes here.   I think it's been a lot of 30th, 40th, 50th.   Obviously I hope I can change that this week, and so far, so good.   It's a good start.   
   
 Q.   Were you in the hospital during the tournament or after?  
HENRIK STENSON:   Back in '10, I was third at the Open, and then I was in bed with a high fever and stuff for a week back home, and then I traveled over.   I was coughing, the whole range was turning around every time I was coughing.   It was bad, and then with the heat and everything, and then I was seeing doctors here, the Tuesday of the PGA Championship I was in like three, four hours at a hospital up in Kohler taking tests and stuff, so I was not in a good state there for a couple of months.   And because I still had to play to get my numbers and everything, I kind of just put myself further and further down, and took a long time to recover from that.   Lesson learned.   If you're that bad, you shouldn't play golf.  
   
 Q.   A blister is easy compared to that?  
HENRIK STENSON:   Blister is not too bad.   It was tougher at the French Revolution, I think.  
   
 Q.   Did you feel a good round like today coming in?  
HENRIK STENSON:   Yeah, I had a great start.   Hit a lovely second shot on the 1st and rolled it in from five feet and made a nice putt on 2.   Birdie‑eagle start, you can't get any better than that.   Yeah, I feel I'm playing nicely and just doing my job on every hole and not get ahead of yourself, and whenever I missed I managed to save myself a couple of really nice up‑and‑downs today, and yeah, I'm very pleased with the start.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT