ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 14, 2013
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You were four shots ahead at one point but how would you rationalise on that?
HENRIK STENSON:   It was obviously very tough out there today.   Got off to a good start the first couple of holes but then 3‑putted on the fourth.   Had a nice birdie on 6. 
Felt like too much of a soft bogey on 7, then two great birdies on 10,11.   The key moment probably was on 12, I had a 6‑iron for my second shot and to land it just short on the green and I didn't quite catch it and it got stuck in that front bunker and I made par. 
Next dropped one on 13 and put me further back than I would have liked to be, and then I had to scramble for par, and you know, the way it turned out now with Phil dropped one on the last, obviously the two bogeys on 16 and 17 were costly. 
I think I took too much club on 16.   I should have gone for a 3‑iron instead of a 2‑iron and just maybe left it short and left and in a better position.   I had to hack it out of the thick stuff and did all right but just snuck down into the bunker and ended up making bogey and just can't afford that at that time. 
A little disappointed with a couple of soft bogeys but take a lot of positives out of the week and there's going to be more chances.

Q.   Indeed, you've come through a lot the last few years, and to be getting close and to be contending at the sharp end of things must be a real advantage to you now.   What specifically positives would you take from this? 
HENRIK STENSON:   I'm striking the ball much better.   Felt like I hit some good shots still out there and it was just tough conditions, and when you get a little bit off at times it just magnify it is so much in these breezy conditions. 
So we go back home and recuperate and come back strongly next week. 

Q.   What is the verdict on a day probably very disappointing in the end? 
HENRIK STENSON:   It's a bit of both.   It's always disappointing not winning when you're in the lead and at one stage, I had a couple more up on the other guy I guess but it was tough conditions.   I didn't play my best today. 
I was trying to hang in there and I had to take a turn at the end on 16, 17, and I needed to make a birdie on 16.   It didn't happen and I bogeyed that one, and then bogeyed 17, which is tough.   17, 18, coming back in, and as you all saw, Phil bogeyed the last to take it to extra holes instead of lifting the trophy at that moment. 
Yeah, I was happy with the par putt I made on the last to get away with it a third, at least.   Take a lot of positives.   I played well, tried my hardest.   It wasn't this week to be so we are coming back next time.

Q.   Markedly different today, and you touched on this how different it was; this is a different course this time around?
HENRIK STENSON:   Yeah, this is definitely the harder wind, as well, it gives you less birdie chances and some of the holes is playing much tougher.   You need to be on, and I had a couple of 3‑putts and yeah, just hit a couple of loose shots.   That's tough to do if you're going to win.   If you're going to beat some of the best players of the world, you have to be just that little sharper the last day and I wasn't. 
Still happy with the week.   A little bit disappointed with my performance today but tried my hardest. 

Q.   Straight on into a big one now and you're in good form. 
HENRIK STENSON:   Absolutely, I'm looking forward to next week, and bring the positives, forget about the negatives and head to Muirfield. 

Q.   And the fact you've been playing on links golf?
HENRIK STENSON:   Yeah, this was definitely sort of an acid test for next week, we'll definitely get at least one of these days at Muirfield, so what better practise could you get?   Just need to work on a few knock‑down shots and off we go. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT