THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 12, 2013
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How do you feel about the first two holes? 
HENRIK STENSON:   I think I'll take par on 17 and 18.   I didn't hit my best gap wedge there on 17.   It was a little heavy.   We were watching that one and trying to get it on the green.   Made par on 17, and then hit a lovely tee shot on 18, second shot wasn't the best but middle of the green, and then a nice first putt left me with my par so that was taken. 
Little bit disappointing finish on the back nine yesterday, but you know, back in at '09, when I won, I played really bad on a Saturday so it might be a good omen.

Q.   How much do you draw on that feeling of winning here before in the final round? 
HENRIK STENSON:   I think it's a golf course I enjoy playing.   It's a tough one, and we know anything can happen.   The way it looks now it's going to be a very open race in the afternoon.   Probably about ten guys can easily win it. 
So, yeah, I'm just happy to be out there, going to go out, try my best and see if I can pull it off once again.

Q.   You really had to play two holes but still it's going to make for a long day.   Tell me the mentality you had when you woke up this morning, your alarm went off and you came out and knew it was going to be a very long day? 
HENRIK STENSON:   Yeah, it felt like I had just left the golf course when I came back and most people did.   Got out of here about 9:00 last night and back in at 5:30 in the morning.   So, yeah, but you've still got to dig deep and prepare and do your normal stuff. 
It's not the easiest two holes to finish off in the morning at 7:00 o'clock, so I was quite pleased making two pars on 17 and 18.   It's a wide open tournament, probably 10 or 15 guys that can win this thing.   So happy to be out there and just going to go back and rest a little bit and come back ready for this afternoon.

Q.   You've won this thing; how much do you draw on those memories? 
HENRIK STENSON:   Yeah, of course, I've got a great feeling playing this golf course.   I've liked it ever since I played the first time in '06.   I've played well here, and I've got the win in '09.   So I'll go out and do my job, and see if on the back nine if I can be in position and give myself a chance at it.

Q.   Can you compare the golfer you are now to the player that won this event in 2009? 
HENRIK STENSON:   I think I've got a little more experience.   I might have been a little more confident in '09, and that final day was probably my best round of golf ever, given the circumstances of the tournament and how tough that golf course played.   So we'll see, but I'm happy to be at the races.   I've got more experience now than I had back then, so that should weigh out to something. 

Q.   Compare the player you are now to the player you were a year ago? 
HENRIK STENSON:   Yeah, it's much better.   I've got a better idea of what I'm doing and I'm playing much better.   It seems like I've left 1 or 2 putts out there, but I'm still pretty happy with the blade.   The short game has been good, and driving has been fairly good too, so I'm in a good spot.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT