THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 11, 2013
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  HENRIK STENSON:   I missed a putt on 15 there and I hit a great tee ball, missed a 7‑iron coming into 16, thought I was going to be in a good position and I ended up completely plugged on the downslope in the right‑hand corner of the bunkers, had to play sideways, and I ended up being stymied on the greens.   I had to flight it over the corner and got it up to about four feet and made that for par.   So I was pretty happy to make par on 16.   It kind of comes and goes.   Yesterday I chipped in for eagle on 9 and made a nice eagle on 2, and now I was a little bit off on a couple of holes, but I'm playing all right and still in the tournament.

Q.   Lingmerth is a countryman of yours.   Do you know anything about him?
HENRIK STENSON:   I've never played with David and only just met him this spring.   Just know he went to University of Arkansas and that's about it.   Just chatted to him a couple of times, but tomorrow I'll find out more about him.

Q.   You regained your form a couple of months ago.   What is it about this golf course that really brings out the best in you?
HENRIK STENSON:   I think it's a course I've always enjoyed playing.   It's a tough golf course, and if you do the right things you get the reward, and otherwise you've got to have a short game, and I just like this golf course.

Q.   You're sleeping on some holes tomorrow.   How do you‑‑
HENRIK STENSON:   Nothing different compared to having thunder delays and all the rest of it, just to get out there and finish up in the morning, and if I understand correctly we're going to have quite a break before we go again, in normal twosomes.   I was expecting maybe threesomes and two‑tee start or something.   But we'll see what we do with the time in between. 

Q.   You have to be patient on this golf course and expect up and downs and good things and bad things‑‑
HENRIK STENSON:   Yeah, it's a long day in the end, and yeah, not the finish that I would have liked.   It's like that on 11.   I hit a great drive, hit a great 4‑wood and just goes a little bit long and left, and you're left with a very difficult shot, come up a foot or two short and you're back down to your feet again.   Yeah, it does that to you.   There was one or two decisions there on 11 and 15 that I might‑‑ would have liked to do different in the future.   But still at the races and playing all right.

Q.   Is the golf course playing similarly to the year you won here?
HENRIK STENSON:   I think it was playing much firmer and faster.   We've had more rain, so it plays a little different.

Q.   You're having to hit longer shots in, play the golf course a little different?
HENRIK STENSON:   I think it plays a little bit longer, but again, you can be a bit more aggressive into the greens if you're hitting from the fairway, and I think I've done all right in that department so far, and short game has been pretty good, it's just one or two putts that I would have liked to see go in today.

Q.   Will you go out tomorrow obviously with a few holes to play and then when you come back in the final round will you have a different strategy?
HENRIK STENSON:   It's more down to me doing my stuff and staying mentally where I need to be and then committed to the shots, and it's always like that when you come into the back nine.   That's when it's going to be decided, and you might need to push a little bit or you're hopefully in a good position already.

Q.   You take advantage of those opportunities that you can take advantage of?
HENRIK STENSON:   Yeah, absolutely. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT