THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 10, 2013
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  HENRIK STENSON:   You've got to do the right stuff, and I was hanging in there, but then I got a bit of a run on my back nine, which was the front nine.   I hit a lovely 4‑wood into ten feet on 2, converted that to eagle, and then made some good pars.   Then made a good putt on 6 for birdie, and then, you know, splendid finish with a pitch‑in over the back of the green on 9 in two, and pitched it in for eagle from like 25 yards or something.   So it was a nice way to finish the round.

Q.   You made the turn at even par and then eagle 2; does that energize you and make you think you can shoot a low number? 
HENRIK STENSON:   Yeah, it's always a difficult golf course to shoot a low number.   Castro's 63 yesterday was phenomenal.   I guess the greens being a bit receptive is what makes us shoot a little bit lower scores than we normally do around here, but you never know.   A bit of breeze and then firming up on the weekend it might be a tougher golf course tomorrow.

Q.   68 yesterday, 67 today, you must feel pretty confident going into the weekend? 
HENRIK STENSON:   Yeah, I'm heading in the right direction.   There is still some stuff that I'd like to feel a bit more trusting with my swing.   I've done a lot of work in the last couple of months and so on, and this is a tough golf course.   You know, you've got to trust what you're doing around here, and I managed to do that pretty good so far. 
But you're only one bad swing away from disaster around here, so you've got to hang in there and do the right things.

Q.   If you get some weather this weekend, do you change your approach at all or is it situational? 
HENRIK STENSON:   No, I'm trying to stick to what I need to do, stick to my decisions and my game plan and play as well as I can, and then we'll see where it takes us.

Q.   What is the difference between yesterday morning and this afternoon? 
HENRIK STENSON:   I guess it's a little bit more wind and the greens are firming up a little bit, but, yeah, I guess that is the difference.

Q.   As a past champion, you have to be comfortable playing this golf course?
HENRIK STENSON:   Yeah, I've always been comfortable playing it (Indiscernible).   It's a very special place for me.

Q.   What's been the key to your solid play? 
HENRIK STENSON:   Well, I'm just trying to do the right things.   You know, I've gone through some ups and downs, and it's all about getting back in there and doing the right stuff.   I'm pretty happy with the progress I'm making, and it's nice when you've got the scores.

Q.   Hunter, 2009 winner, and now you're coming into the weekend right there in contention at 9‑under overall.   What is working for you right now? 
HENRIK STENSON:   Well, I've been playing all right as of late, and now I've got on the back nine with a couple of eagles here and I'm right back up there.   So nice finish, and especially dipping in on the 9th for eagle, get an eagle on the 2nd, so 5‑under on my back nine which was the front nine.   I'm in a good position and looking forward to the weekend.

Q.   Having experience and confidence seems to be the key on this course.   Obviously, you've had both and you know what it takes to get it done here.   Two eagles on the front nine though.   That has to kind of make you say this is my day. 
HENRIK STENSON:   Yeah, when it's falling your way, but there's still a long way to go.   Happy with the position I'm in.   It feels like the game is definitely heading in the right direction.   By any means this is a tough golf course, and you have to trust what you're doing and I've done pretty well so far. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT