ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 7, 2012
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Good round?   
HENRIK STENSON:   Absolutely.   Happy with that.   To shoot under par around this golf course any day is a good score.   It was pretty tricky out there at times.   You know, you've got to hit the fairway, any time you miss the fairway, you've got to try to try hard to make par.   I made a couple of nice birdies, with nice approaches.   Fighting the last couple of holes, made a nice up‑and‑down from 30 yards short of the green on 17 for par, and made a good putt on 18 that just needed another couple of holes.   In pretty good position for tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Graeme was just talking about the need to get his foot in before his eventful ending‑‑  
HENRIK STENSON:   Walking up 18, we could see the rain coming but I wasn't obviously thinking that there was going to be a loud thunder just coming with it.   Yeah, happy to have finished and Graeme got in there, and just made the roll on his putt and it snuck in.   So he was really happy with that one.  
   
 Q.   Just your own game, obviously you're getting confidence back.   Are you feeling you're getting towards where you want to be?  
HENRIK STENSON:   Yeah, there's still a lot of work to be done but it's in the right direction for sure.   The whole stringy managed fro dues some decent results in America, and you know, I'm kind of‑‑ so it's still a bit of a mixed bag and confidence isn't where I would like it to be but it's in the right direction and I'm just trying to add a little bit here and there and pick it up as we go along.  
   
 Q.   Going into The Open‑‑  
HENRIK STENSON:   I'm not exempt this year.   That's one of the things I'm playing for this week and next week.   That's what we target, to try to be among the Top‑5 and see if I can squeeze in there.   We'll see who is ahead, and obviously if you win a tournament, then you know you're going to get a spot.   If I can finish Top‑5 and the right people are ahead of me, then I could get in.  
   
 Q.   Nice little incentive, as well?  
HENRIK STENSON:   Absolutely, so I'm fighting hard for that today and this week and next week.   We'll see.   If it happens, it happens.   Obviously I'm really keen trying to get one of those last spots.   I've played every one since 2005 and Lytham, that's where I played my first one in 2001.   I would love to go back there.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT