DUBAI WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY DP WORLD
November 25, 2010
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  First Round 69 (-3)  
   
  Q. I heard you say, 'best round of the year.' Is that true?  
 HENRIK STENSON: Well, I felt that definitely the way I hit my irons and gave myself that many chances, it was probably the best iron play of the year.   
 Score-wise, yeah, I'm sure we can find one or two rounds that might be better score-wise, but I was very pleased with that. Hit a lot of shots close, and you know, took quite a few chances, as well. There were a few I left out there and so on, but I think on this course everybody is going to struggle at times a little bit.  
  
  Q. We did have some particularly low scores last year but I guess that represents a good score around this course?  
 HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, I think under par and the way the course plays is always going to be a score I would be happy with. Bermuda is not my favourite surface and it's plain old bermuda out there, so the rough is also trickier and a little bit thicker than last year.   
 So you are going to end up with some horrible lies. You're going to be close to the pin but you have a bad lie and you have to go up and over and be very delicate. I'm sure everybody is going to have a few of them, the really tough ones this week.  
  
  Q. Am I right to assume you've put in some good work in this part of the world since Shanghai?  
 HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, I'm trying, I'm trying for sure. Still a fairly long way until I get where I want to be, but it's definitely heading in the right direction and given my iron play was that good today, it's certainly heading into the right direction.   
  
  Q. And after the unwanted break, presumably with a decent finish in Shanghai, at least that does something for positivity?   
 HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, I just got in as last man standing there almost when the cutoff was, and I was pleased to get the chance to play and keep that stroke going, and that was I think my sixth year that I played in Shanghai. And 13th is never a bad finish in a World Golf Championship.  
  
  Q. Do you have expectations coming into this one, given the season you've had?  
 HENRIK STENSON: I just want to finish in somewhat style. If I can play and keep the scores going for four days, and have a decent finish, that would be something I can at least build on for next year. You know, it would be nice to get a Top-10 or something like that this week.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT