BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
April 21, 2010
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   STEVE TODD: Henrik, many thanks for coming in and for your time today. You came straight across from client alike many of the guys have. You enjoyed quite a good week there, Top-10, a good weekend, 68 and 69, do you feel like you're coming back into your game now and is it getting to the point now where you wanted it to be? 
 HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, still a little bit to go, but no, I played all right last week, and I think any tournament you finish Top-10 is a pretty good week. So, yeah, I'm moving along and yeah, got a bit to go, but hope to be able to have a decent week here as well. 
 STEVE TODD: The work you said you put in before the Masters, do you feel like that paid off last week.
 HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, a little bit, but I need a few more rounds and possibly a few more good weeks of practise before it's all there. But yeah, I'm feeling okay. 
 STEVE TODD: You had a look at the course this morning, or at least the parts you could see through the fog; what did you make of it and how did it go this morning? 
 HENRIK STENSON: Well, obviously I played last year, so I know the track. No, it hasn't changed much. 
 There's a couple of holes where you can make up some good ground on the par 5s. You can reach a few of them in two -- or pretty much all of them in two, so you can obviously have a good day and make a few birdies or hopefully an eagle or something like that. 
 All going to depend on the weather how low the scoring is going to be. I think when we had a few holes to play on the front nine now before we were finished, it really kicked in, and it's a different golf course when you've got a 30-mile-an-hour wind, that's for sure. I started on 10, so it was the last couple of holes now that the wind came in. It was blowing pretty hard at one stage. 

 Q. Was last week a little bit of a surprise for you, the finish, considering where your game is and where you want it to be?
 HENRIK STENSON: How do you mean? 

 Q. Just the results, were you expecting a Top-10? I know you always look to win but obviously did you inspire yourself a little bit with the scores on the weekend? 
 HENRIK STENSON: Well, I didn't play my best on the weekend. I actually think I played -- probably played the best the first day. 
 But I kept the scores together and yeah, I mean, in the end, I wasn't -- I can't remember, Y.E., was he 14- or 15-under? 
 STEVE TODD: 15. 
 HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, so I wasn't that far off in the end, five shots from the win, and yeah, well, it's hard to say if I'm surprised or not with a Top-10. But yeah, I expect to be up there and giving myself a decent chance to win on the weekend at regular events. Yeah, I guess I was just a little bit off that. 

 Q. I think with this golf course, the wind is always a big problem, and especially last year during the third round, I think the wind was a big issue. So you have experience from playing last year, so do you have any special measures or any plans in terms of dealing with the wind? 
 HENRIK STENSON: Well, I mean, the key thing playing in the wind is always controlling your ball flight, and I've had lots of good finishes in the past in difficult conditions. So I think I'm reasonably good at grinding it out and playing well in tough conditions. 
 So I expect it to be a bit hard at times, but as long as it's not as cold as it was last year, because that was probably the toughest conditions I've played in on that Saturday last year. 
 STEVE TODD: Thank you very much, Henrik, all the best for this week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT