VOLVO WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
October 30, 2009
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You really had to win this morning, how does it feel to get it done?  
 HENRIK STENSON: No, that was nice. I went straight to the range yesterday. I didn't play very good, especially not in the beginning, 4-down after four, it was even steeper up there than some of the ones on the course. It was pretty tough but I found some good feelings on the range and struck it nicely last evening and did pretty good today.  
  
  Q. How much does your opponent's play affect your tactics on the course?  
 HENRIK STENSON: A little bit, and I think both times I tried to play on my opponents result and it didn't work out, so I probably shouldn't do that.  
  
  Q. You won the Accenture Match-Play Championship and also been a semifinalist, what do you like about this particular format?  
 HENRIK STENSON: Plain and simple, you have to win or you're out of there. You have to beat your opponent and that can change when you need to do. Some days you need to play fantastic and other days you just need to scrape by.   
  
  Q. Rory McIlroy this afternoon, he beat you at Vivendi Trophy, will you try for revenge this afternoon?  
 HENRIK STENSON: I will try to, thanks for reminding me. No, it's going to be a really tough match. It still seems to be very open what's going to happen in the group, and you know, I can just go out there and try and beat him and see if that will be enough in the end and it's going to be a tough one for sure. He's not easy.   
  
  Q. You can tell me how good a win is, given the start of yesterday compared to this wonderful start today?  
 HENRIK STENSON: It was quite a turnaround. I was 4-down after four yesterday and 3-up after four today, so it was -- I don't know how you work that out, seven holes difference in four holes, but that was the way today, and I just went and practised yesterday and got going a little bit and managed to bring that on the courses, at least quite a few holes.  
  
  Q. You did finish pretty well yesterday, as well, didn't you?  
 HENRIK STENSON: I got into the game after six, seven holes, I started to hit it better. It was almost -- it could have been a turnaround of the century there.   
 I got it back from 5-down at the turn to 2-down after 14, or after 13 and had a lipout for birdie on 14 and Simon got a little bit lucky on 15 I think. You know, it could have been almost back to square with a couple to go.   
 But he played good and he's in great shape.   
  
  Q. I take it you appreciate this format with the chance to go again?  
 HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, I mean, it's both I think plus and minuses depend how you play. 36-hole matches are normally the ones that decide the better one for sure, and that's what we are used to in this tournament. So it might take a little bit of time to get used to.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT