PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 15, 2009
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q. Give us your thoughts. 
 HENRIK STENSON: I'm happy with the way I played. I started off a bit funky. I had, I don't know, 12 or 15-footer off the fringe on the first and I putted and I caught a blade of grass and hit it five feet short and missed the next one. It was a bit of a sloppy bogey on the first and came back with birdies on 2 and 3. 
 Put me back in the round and birdied 7 and a nice putt on 9. I was 3-under at the turn and had some good chances on the back and I made a birdie on 15 and just missed two good chances coming in. I hit solid putt on 18 from about 10, 11 feet and just missed it left and hit a good shot on 17 to about five, six feet. And hit a so-so putt so I missed those two. It could have been one or two better, but overall very happy with the day.

 Q. What's the difference today for you patience?
 HENRIK STENSON: I've been patient all week. I think first day I didn't really make any putts and that was the difference. Yesterday I struggled a little bit after the turn. I was 2-under coming out. And I just hit a couple of wayward shots coming in and really, 14, made par 14 yesterday and bogeyed 15 so I felt at least I dropped two on all the other guys.
 So that was a little bit painful, but such is life. And came back with a good round today and hopefully I'll have an outside chance tomorrow.

 Q. Do you base your strategy going into tomorrow on how many shots off the lead you are?
 HENRIK STENSON: Not really. You can play a little bit more aggressive if you have to. But if I can hopefully be up there and be within three when we turn into the back nine, it's time to hopefully make a couple of good putts and see what happens.

 Q. Weather supposed to be figured in tomorrow, how does that help or hinder? Rain is supposed to come in?
 HENRIK STENSON: All right. I'm waterproof. So I'm doing okay, then. (Laughter)

 Q. Was today about the ideal conditions to play golf?
 HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, it was tough yesterday. And today it's still a bit tough. But I think it probably works out well for me when it plays longer and a bit tricky. I wouldn't mind a bit of wind tomorrow again.
 And I just need to make a few more putts.

 Q. How were the greens holding up?
 HENRIK STENSON: I mean, they're not too firm, and you can actually spin back the ball when you've got a shorter club. And it's -- they're a little bit bumpy and a little bit tricky in that sense. So it's not the ones you want to have too many 3, 4-footers to save your life on.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT