THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 8, 2009
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Great round out there today with a 69. The wind was a little bit tricky out there, right?   
 HENRIK STENSON: No, it was another good day's work out there. I stayed patient and kept the ball in play most of the day and gave myself chances and made a few, obviously. I think 68, 69, I hope it's not a trend going up. It's going to be tougher on the weekend, I think. The greens are really firming up and it's tough to get close to the pin. I've seen a few of the pin positions for tomorrow, and they're going to be short on a few of the greens. I think you're going to be putting a lot of times from 20-odd feet for birdie. Yeah, just got to stay patient and give myself chances.  
  
  Q. During the second round it looked like the wind was swirling out there a little bit. Is that what was giving these players a little trouble this afternoon?  
 HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, there's not a lot of wind out there, but it kind of picked up a few times, and as you said, it swirled around a little bit, and for sure if you don't know where it's coming from, 16, 17, 18 can be tricky. I managed to dump up in the water on 18 there off a great tee ball and then only had a little 9-iron but got away with a 5 and got it back with birdies on 1 and 2. Yeah, it can make it a bit tricky.  
  
  Q. 68-69 going into the weekend. You've got to be pretty happy with that.   
 HENRIK STENSON: It's a course that I really like, everything except 8, I think, which I think is a bit too long. It's a great golf course, and it's in great condition. I think it's going to firm up over the weekend. It's going to be hard to get close to the pins, and you've just got to have a ton of patience and keep plodding away, give yourself chances. I've been putting very well so far, so hopefully I can keep that up, and as I said, I've had a ton of patience these first two days and I need to have more the next two days.  
  
  Q. Was there key today, putting, getting it close?  
 HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, I made some good putts. I was putting phenomenally yesterday and really turned maybe a 71 into 68 or something like that with the putting. I was putting solid today, as well, and made some important putts. You know, it's a course where it can come up and bite you. It's a great risk-reward course, one of my favorites.   
 The only thing I might not be the best out of is the Bermuda because I'm not brought up on it and it takes slightly different shots sometimes to play out of this type of grass. But I think I'm learning and hopefully becoming better and better at it.  
  
  Q. Where do you expect to be tomorrow by the end of the day?  
 HENRIK STENSON: Well, that's always hard to judge. I can just say that I've had three pretty good tournaments so far at Sawgrass, obviously, and in good position for another one. Last year I remember it was pretty brutal on the last day. I moved up from 25th or something to 10th, so anybody can make a big move if the weather goes like that. I don't know what the forecast is, but it's really hot out there, and it's all about drinking a lot and staying focused. I did that today.  
 I'd like to be in this position when the back nine comes Sunday.  
  
  Q. When did you hit into 8?   
 HENRIK STENSON: On 8 I played a 5-wood today, and I played with J.B. Holmes. When he's hitting a rescue on a par-3 you know it's a couple of yards too far for -- I mean, just in general, everybody can see how difficult and tricky a hole like 17 can be, so I think we just want to have more par-3s which is between 5- and 7-iron or something like that, and some tricky bunkers and hazards if need be. It's kind of boring with these 240-yard par-3s. Pars and bogeys aren't too exciting for anybody.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT