BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
April 21, 2009
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MICHAEL GIBBONS: Thank you for joining us, Henrik. Your impressions so far?   
 HENRIK STENSON: I haven't seen too much of the place yet. Obviously the weather was not great when we came in. But hopefully it will be better throughout the week. Seems to be a nice place.   
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: Did you have an adventurous journey?   
 HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, it took a good 60 hours to get here from Orlando. I left Saturday morning early and got into Jeju lunchtime on Tuesday. Yeah, almost like rust picking up a golf club; it was four days ago that I left home. But we will be all right. Have a good day tomorrow and should be up and ready for Thursday.  
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: So have you got through the jet-lag just by flying through it?   
 HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, I had two nights at the hotel in Seoul, so obviously I've been -- yeah, it feels like it should be all right. 13 hours, I mean, still waking up in the middle of the night and so forth, but we'll be all right.   
  
  Q. What are your impressions of Dubai, having lived in Dubai for a few years, and where do you live there?   
 HENRIK STENSON: Well, I've been based out there for I think a good six years now, something like that. Obviously a good place to be based in terms of practise and travels, and we've got the tournaments down there.   
 Yeah, it's been quite interesting to see the growth of Dubai over those years. I started to come down in 2001 for the Desert Classic, and it's been a big change, very interesting.   
  
  Q. Do you stay at a particular resort?  
 HENRIK STENSON: Up until now, my existing house is just near the Emirates Club, and we are building one up at Jumeirah Golf Estates, as well. So eventually I will move up at Jumeirah Golf Estates and be real close to the course where we are going to play the Dubai World Championship.   
  
  Q. Do you prefer Dubai now compared to six years ago?  
 HENRIK STENSON: Well, it's obviously pluses and minuses in everything in life, and I think that goes for any major city that's been under that change, as well. You know, there's positives and negatives all the time I think in whatever walk in life, really.   
  
  Q. So after Annika Sorenstam, I think you are the most famous Swedish golfer, especially after the CA Championship. Through this tournament, what sort of aspect of yourself would you like to show to the Korean fans?   
 HENRIK STENSON: Good question. I haven't had that one for a while. It's my first time to Korea, and I have heard that the fans are excited to have everybody back here for the tournament. I would like just to have them to get to know me a little bit better, and hopefully I can show off some good golf and win a few fans over here with my clothes on.   
  
  Q. The whole thing with playing in your pants, you've said that since then, a company offered you a contract, would you tell me who that was?   
 HENRIK STENSON: I believe it was Hanes. They contacted my manager shortly after those pictures came about.   
  
  Q. Tempted?   
 HENRIK STENSON: No. I mean, I'm under contract with Hugo Boss, and that would be sort of a conflicting issue.   
  
  Q. Hanes, American brand?  
 HENRIK STENSON: Yes.   
  
  Q. Famous for white fronts, aren't they?   
 HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, I think they do everything now, t-shirts and underwear.   
  
  Q. Hence, it was a very easy just to say no?   
 HENRIK STENSON: Yes.  
  
  Q. I've read that you got into flying as a hobby; is that right?   
 HENRIK STENSON: Not really.  
  
  Q. Were you quoted as saying that someone gave you a turn in the cockpit?   
 HENRIK STENSON: I had been given the opportunity when I've been up in the small plane with a pilot to get a feel for it. It is not like Charl Schwartzel; he's got a pilot license.   
  
  Q. That's not something you want to do?  
 HENRIK STENSON: No. I'll stick to sitting in the back instead I think. More relaxing.   
  
  Q. Are you nervous to fly at all?  
 HENRIK STENSON: No, not really. I've got respect for it I think like most other people. Obviously you don't want to drop out of the sky. That wouldn't be a nice experience. I'm quite sensitive if I go on joyrides and stuff like that, if I go on the fair, my stomach can feel that.   
 So I'm not too keen on those sudden drops when you're up there. A bit of turbulence doesn't care me off, but I wouldn't want to be -- it was one of the flights, I don't remember which one, coming here, that made a bit of -- it was coming into San Francisco from Orlando and he just lowered the nose a little bit quicker than normally and you're just like -- yeah, but it's fun. I'm fascinated by airplanes.   
  
  Q. You get used to having the odd rough flight, because you fly so much, you're probably used to it.   
 HENRIK STENSON: I remember years and years ago, I had one from Argentina back to America, and I got into like a lightning storm, and that was really bumpy. I remember just like really got the seatbelt tight and was jumping up and down in the seat there. Not too many of those.   
  
  Q. No lightning strikes on the plane?  
 HENRIK STENSON: No, no. That's dangerous, though, isn't it.   
  
  Q. Did the captain say there was going to be a rough patch?  
 HENRIK STENSON: Well, it was quite turbulent coming from San Francisco into Seoul, as well. There was quite a bit of turbulence. Tends to be, I find over that part of the world, over Japan, this area, seems to be quite a lot of turbulence.   
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: Thank you very much, Henrik and good luck this week.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT