WGC CA CHAMPIONSHIP
March 12, 2009
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Give us your take on what happened on the third?   
 HENRIK STENSON: I believe a photographer might have got some good shots of it - he might make some money! I hit a really poor tee shot which was travelling on the wind and I ended up in the hazard but on the mud with the ball in a decent shape. Obviously playing in Florida I didn't have any rain gear in the bag so that option went out of the window and I felt like if I could hack it out, I could secure a five and that is what I ended up doing in the end. Because of the mud I couldn't really afford to play in any of my clothes as they would have been a real mess down the last six or so holes so I had no option - I was only wearing two things when I hit the shot, my jocks and my golf glove - that is the only thing that will appear in the picture aside from the golf club - just the way God created me!! Shirt, trousers, socks, shoes, hat, the lot was off!!  
  
  Q. How did you come to that decision - did Fanny advise you?  
 HENRIK STENSON: Well it wasn't quite like a club selection discussion - she didn't say I think you should take your shirt off or anything like that or should I go for the Full Monty! I just remembered I didn't have my rain gear so I didn't have any choice. I felt like I was definitely going to save a shot by actually playing the ball so that was the only decision I had to make. If you are saving a shot, that has to be worth taking your shirt and trousers. I'm sure I'll hear a few comments and once the pictures get out, I'll hear a few more no doubt. I'll probably take that to my grave with me!! I don't think I scared too many spectators off the course, hopefully.  
  
  Q. I'm sure there are women's magazines out there already looking for the pictures - maybe Johan is already doing a deal with them?  
 HENRIK STENSON: Absolutely, you never know, after this I might have a new endorsement with PlayGirl or something like that!  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT