COMMERCIALBANK QATAR MASTERS PRESENTED BY DOLPHIN ENERGY
January 25, 2009
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You seemed to be challenging all the way but Alvaro just kept ahead of you.   
 HENRIK STENSON: It was a good day. He obviously kicked in some good birdies here and there, and I had some chances, very close on 17, from long range, though.   
 16, a bit disappointing. I had a crappy lie in the rough and was close to the pin on 1 but played a delicate shot and came up a few feet too short. Not making a birdie on 16 and 17, I always felt like was going to be tough and tried to chase a driver on the last, hit a bit off and played a good recovery, pretty good third. I was in-between clubs a little bit, as well, and just felt I had to give it a good bash and try to charge it up there on the last and obviously 3-putted.   
 Doesn't feel good if you 3-putt last, but still I had to give it a go. That was my only chance to force a playoff was to make a birdie on the last, depending what Alvaro was going to do. I'm still happy with my performance here and it's been another good week in Qatar.  
  
  Q. The eagle on 10 seemed to spur you on a bit.   
 HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, that put me back in the ballgame. I had a couple of putts that seem to be fairly close, and I made a long one on 15, which was good to birdie that one into the wind. No, I would have needed to make a couple more putts on the weekend. I played much better or happier with the performance.   
  
  Q. You have quite a record in dough had a, second two years running; maintains a very impressive record around here.   
 HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, I think my second in '05, I won in '06 and then I was seventh or something and second last year and second again. Yeah, just a question if it's tied or on my own. But another solid week and it's nice to go back home for the Desert Classic.   
  
  Q. You'll be going there with a lot of confidence no doubt.   
 HENRIK STENSON: Absolutely. It's nice to get a good week in early again, come bouncing back with a second after missing the cut, so yeah, I'm pleased with that.  
  
  Q. What about Alvaro, he's some player; this will lift him up into possibly the Top-30 in the world.   
 HENRIK STENSON: He's played extremely well and obviously won in Portugal in the fall and then followed it up with this win. He will be exempt for the Masters then.   
 I still haven't played with him yet but hopefully I get the chance in the future.  
  
  Q. Looks like an exciting talent, doesn't he.   
 HENRIK STENSON: Yes, he's good fun.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT