COMMERCIALBANK QATAR MASTERS PRESENTED BY DOLPHIN ENERGY
January 24, 2009
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   RODDY WILLIAMS: Henrik, well played today, thanks for coming in and joining us and that round brought you back in the hunt today.  
 HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, I think walking in here, Louis is 16-under and he's trying to shake us off, but definitely, I'm up there. Anything can happen on the last day, and if I shoot a really good score, I might have an outside chance.   
 RODDY WILLIAMS: Feeling of frustration when the putt didn't drop on the last?   
 HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, I played much, much better today than yesterday, obviously, and I set up some great chances, solid iron play coming in. I had like a 10- or 12-footer on 14, similar on 15, and one on the last, and I missed all three of those and made one of them on 17 and another good try for eagle on 16 and made a birdie there.   
 So to make 2-under out of those five chances, I felt like I left a few shots out there, but that's okay.   
  
  Q. Much happier with your game today?  
 HENRIK STENSON: Yesterday was a struggle but first day it was okay and today was the best I've played throughout the week. I had some good sessions with Pete over these past couple of days, and I was still a little bit off during the warm up but then I kind of got it together and I had a much more solid move on the board today and kept it under control. Definitely a big step in the right direction.   
  
  Q. Does your experience around here help?  
 HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, I think it always does a little bit. I think this is my ninth year coming. I know the course inside-out, and yeah, it's always going to be a help.   
 Still, I finished four or five shots back and I'll need a little bit of help from Alvaro. You know how much I love -- watched a movie this morning even.   
 And then obviously if he keeps on going, it's going to take one of Adam Scott's rounds to threaten him. But he did it to me last year, so hopefully I can return the favour to somebody else this year then.   
  
  Q. There is a lot of talk about the European Ryder Cup Captain - do you have a view on your favorite?  
 HENRIK STENSON: Some part of the committee that chooses it, I will vote and you will hear that on Wednesday. Lips are sealed. Had enough speculation I think for a while.   
 RODDY WILLIAMS: Henrik, thank you very much indeed.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT