SOUTH AFRICAN OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
December 17, 2008
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MICHAEL GIBBONS: Start us off with your thoughts on the week and the golf course.   
 HENRIK STENSON: First time here. It's a very good course. There are a lot of options off the tee, and a lot of wind. It's going to be a tough week I think if it keeps blowing like this. I've had a relaxin week, just getting back into it again. Played nine holes yesterday, practiced on Monday and still feels okay. Final four rounds of the year.   
  
  Q. How do you assess your season after the recent victories?  
 HENRIK STENSON: Well, I think it went from -- it was always going to be a very good season, but I guess it went from very good to great, at least two wins, and I've had two wins in '07, two wins in '06, so it's very nice to get these two tournaments this late and maybe I should only play six or seven tournaments -- and next year, I don't know instead of playing 25. Play six and get the job done early.   
  
  Q. Inaudible?  
 HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, I guess over the years, I've had good form early and late. The big change for me was to have the two big results in the majors, which was a big change and then I had another couple of top 5s, Top-10s during that period, as well. So I think that broke that spell of not playing well in the summer months.   
 Hopefully just look at this as a head start for the Middle East swing.   
  
  Q. Do you find it hard to get into things after a break?  
 HENRIK STENSON: It's only three weeks. I'll have a long break really, and that's the way it tends to be now, my year, playing about 25 weeks and then just having two weeks off, playing a few tournaments and then some more time to rest and practice. I'm really happy with the results I've been able to get with this schedule and playing a little bit less.   
  
Q. Which of the Majors would ypu most like to win and why?  
 HENRIK STENSON: Augusta because it's the next one. I think I feel like I've learned a lot around there over these three times that I've played, and I've been 17 and 17 I think the last two years, so want to go better than that and I think that I can do really well around that course if my game is in good shape. Obviously that's the next one that's in sight.   
.   
  
  Q. You rarely used the driver in Sun City - will it be the same this week?  
 HENRIK STENSON: I think with these conditions and a lot of the holes, it's going to be a lot of 3-woods. And with these strong winds, you want to keep it low off the tee and not too much spin on the ball. There's going to be a couple of drives, 9 was playing long, 5 and 9 was into the wind and it's going to be those holes where you need to get it out there really.   
 The rough is not as penal here as it was in Sun City.   
  
  Q. Is there something magic in your three wood?  
 HENRIK STENSON: It's a strong three wood and I've had strong one for as long as I can remember. Obviously I take the driver if I need an extra 15 yards, but if I feel a bit more confident with the 3-wood, I'm happy to give up a few yards to play in the fairway.   
  
  Q. How has Fanny helped you on the bag?  
 HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, she's very hard working and I'm very happy to have her on the bag, even though she is not here this week. I won with one of her friends on the bag at the World Cup, she wasn't there, either. That is the way it happens a lot in this game for some reason: a regular caddie takes a week off for whatever reason and the player wins that week. It happened to Bjorn at the British Masters. His caddie, well not the caddie, but his wife was expecting a child -- and then at the British Masters, he won.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT