OMEGA MISSION HILLS WORLD CUP
November 29, 2008
Robert Karlsson
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   HENRIK STENSON: We played reasonably well, but we had a momentum swing. Just missed a birdie on 14, and then really made a poor shot on 15, only getting away with a par, so that was two important shots that slipped away.   
 We fought well, and those ones, combined with the par on 11, puts us two or three shots back, and it would have been nice to be a little bit closer for tomorrow.   
 We played great yesterday in the foursomes, and I hope we can do the same tomorrow. If there's any form that you can make up four or five shots, it will be the foursomes. So hope we can go out and put some early numbers on the board and put some pressure on the leaders.  
  
  Q. Do you have more comfort or freedom than the leaders?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: As Henrik said, it's good we are playing foursomes tomorrow, because it's probably easier to pick up shots in foursomes. Hopefully we can go out and do that tomorrow again.   
  
  Q. Talk about the day and the way you finished there in third place.   
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Henrik played really well today. I struggled big-time today. It was good that we got away with a 66, because I didn't help him out very much. I stepped in a couple times around the turn when he was not playing so good.   
 At the end of the day, disappointing that I didn't really help him out much, but 66 is not too far off.  
  
  Q. Any reason for this? After chatting to Ireland and Germany, they say things didn't click in the four-balls as they had on day one?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: I would say pretty much the same. We shot 65 the first day, 66 today. I think we were probably stronger as a foursomes team than we are a fourball team.   
 So hopefully we can improve on that tomorrow.  
  
  Q. It does bode well into the final day, doesn't it?   
 ROBERT KARLSSON: We played better yesterday than we did today, and probably the first day, as well. So looking forward to it. I'm certainly a little more pumped up. He was playing so well, and all of a sudden I was sort of a passenger, and that can happen sometimes in better-ball.  
  
  Q. Beating yourself up a little bit?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: I struggled. I didn't play good. I'm going to hit a few on the range and see if I can turn it around a bit.  
  
  Q. Some of the fun gone out of it when it's meant to be fun?   
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Well, close, close. You definitely feel it. I don't think I've slept much this whole week. It is definitely at the end of the season, you feel that, so this is a week where you want to be, and you never know before the week how it's going to turn out.   
 We're in third, so shouldn't complain. All to play for tomorrow, you never know.  
  
  Q. It's always difficult to putt a target, a figure to reach; it's probably all the more difficult to do it in foursomes.   
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Yeah, you can't. You just go out there and try to get off to a bit of a hot start. We have both the other two days, where we played well from 12 and in, and today we didn't really. Hopefully we can do it tomorrow and put a bit of a good start together with it. Let's hope for a good day tomorrow.   
  
  Q. And your strategy is just to play well?   
 ROBERT KARLSSON: That's it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT