HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 9, 2008
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Tell us about the day, you're still in it obviously? 
 HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, I'm happy with the come back there. It was a much more difficult day out there today. It was cold in the morning and obviously the wind is swirling around, and it was fairly strong at times. It was pretty tricky. Dropped a couple of shots on the front nine and was a very crucial stage in my round on the 10th, blew the second shot, came up short didn't get the pitch where I wanted to and made a great putt from 25 feet up over a ridge for par. 
 And then great birdie on 12 and another good birdie on 14 and that put me right back in the mix again and left me just a little bit short, and then the jaws on 18, I'm in the ballgame. If I can hang in there with a couple off the lead or close to the lead with nine to go, I'm happy and that gives me a chance. 

 Q. Different conditions today, wasn't it, from the rest of the week, colder and windier. 
 HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, fortunately I'm Swedish but I've been in the warm weather for too many years now. I said to Fanny on the third when I hit a poor tee shot, "Feels like I'm a hundred years now when I'm trying to swing now when it's cold." I was struggling at the Dunhill earlier in the fall. Everybody thinks just because you're Swedish you should be good in the cold weather. It was tough there for a while but then it heated up.

 Q. Strange occurrence with Anthony, all of that that went on, slightly disrupting for everybody in the group I would assume. 
 HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, I think we did all right with that part obviously, not great for him, just one of those things that can happen sometimes.

 Q. Have you done anything like that in the past yourself?
 HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, I got a little bit of a reputation at times to be hot-headed and I've tweaked the odd club over the years, that's for sure. I'm not going to mention how many. 

 Q. Have you been disqualified subsequently?
 HENRIK STENSON: No. I've realised that it's been bent and then he obviously didn't this time and hit a shot or two with it before he realised, and then you're done and dusted. So a bit of a shame.

 Q. An odd thing going out knowing you're not going to finish this afternoon; presumably you prepare the same way?
 HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, it's been a long couple of weeks. I feel like I've been out on this trip forever these three weeks. There's been a lot of rain and delays and so on. After a while, you just take whatever comes at you, and I've got a bit of a cold, a cracked thumb and jet-lag, so I'm doing great and I'm just going to go out there and enjoy myself in the last round and keep on fighting.

 Q. You said yesterday felt a bit sniffly. 
 HENRIK STENSON: Feeling flat and I didn't sleep more than four and a half hours last night. It's going to be an early night tonight. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT