PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 10, 2008
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   HENRIK STENSON: My putting wasn't as good and I missed a couple of five footers on the par-5s. I'm in good spirits for the rest of the day.   
  
  Q. How much has Fanny's Major experience meant to you?  
 HENRIK STENSON: I think it's been very good to have her, obviously, and it's just a very fortunate thing to have her. She does a great job for me and I think we're going to have a good afternoon.  
  
  Q. How will you approach the afternoon then?  
 HENRIK STENSON: Keep on playing my game. Hopefully play as good tee to green as I have done and hopefully keep the flat stick under control.  
  
  Q. What would it mean for you to be Sweden's first Major Championship?  
 HENRIK STENSON: It would mean a lot. Yeah. And I just got to put that behind me, I got 18 to go and I'm going to go out there and do my best.   
  
  Q. How was the wind?   
 HENRIK STENSON: It picked up a bit. It was a bit similar to the other day.   
 So it's -- we played the course in similar conditions, but obviously now it's a whole lot softer and the greens are more receptive. So it probably plays a little bit easier in that way, but again, gusty wind and swirls a little bit too, so you got to keep your shots under control.   
  
  Q. Do you think that if the breeze stays like this that it will firm up a little bit in the afternoon?  
 HENRIK STENSON: I don't know, they got quite a lot of rain yesterday, so it might not firm up a whole lot, but probably a little bit.   
  
  Q. Did you, with your performance at the British Open we shouldn't be surprised by this, you're sort of rounding into this type of shape?  
 HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, I was leading championship in 2006 and didn't have a great weekend and then now a strong finish at the Open, so, and I'm going to go out there and enjoy the afternoon and give myself a chance, I hope.  
  
  Q. You getting more used to being in this type of situation? Everybody watching and that?  
 HENRIK STENSON: Well not so much that, I think it's more the approach to the tournaments. I know now you sort of have to really stay patient. I made a lot of great up-and-downs this week to save par and just have been really grinding away.   
 And I think that I might not have had the same mindset in the past at the majors. They're always going to be the most difficult ones and I sort of adopted a little bit better approach to it, I think.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 HENRIK STENSON: Not really, sometimes I'm even too defensive. There's been a few little things that I did better this week that I didn't do before and I'll go out there and give it my best this afternoon.  
  
  Q. I noticed at the time British you stayed out there along with the rest of us to watch the trophy ceremony with Harrington. Why did you do that?  
 HENRIK STENSON: He's a good friend of mine and I wanted to be there and congratulate him. And you can always suck up a little bit of the atmosphere. That was great atmosphere around the 18th green there. And hopefully one day I'll be very close, very soon. That's what we want.  
  
  Q. You got an early wake up call this morning, are you going to try to do anything in the next two hours to get some rest before you got to go out there for 18 more?  
 HENRIK STENSON: Not too much. I'm going to hit some balls and I'm going to sit down and chill for a little bit. But I don't know if it's a good day to go to sleep, I might not wake up in the afternoon.  
  
  Q. Can you re-create your normal pre-match regimen?  
 HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, absolutely. It's going to be the same. I go to the range, about 1 o'clock or something like that and do the normal warm-up. I had three of those yesterday, so I'm pretty good at that by now.   
  
  Q. Talk about having Fanny on the bag, when that started and how much she brings to a situation like this?  
 HENRIK STENSON: She's got great experience and more than anything she does a great job for me, she's very precise with everything she does, her preparations and so on. So I'm very confident to get the best information that I can get out there. So I'm very lucky to have her on the bag.   
  
  Q. One other thing, did you find something between the first two rounds at Bridgestone and the last two? You played well on the weekend there, playing well here, is there something that may have changed?  
 HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, I had my coach come over and we worked on things the whole week sort of and I just felt like it's been getting closer and closer. I was hitting the ball pretty good at the Open Championship and it's just been still taking a little bit of time to get back in good shape. I've now been hitting some great shots this week. So I think it's moving in the right direction for Ryder Cup.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, it was, it's a tricky tee shot and it's one of the hardest holes, if not the hardest hole on the golf course. And I went for a 3-wood off the tee, hit that one good, and just the breeze took it a little bit and ended up in the right semi rough. And I played a flat out 3-iron from there to about eight or 10 feet or something like than rolled that one in up the hill. So it was a great finish.  
  
  Q. How did you make the bogeys on 15 and 16?  
 HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, 15, I just hit a good second shot on 15 from the fairway, a little 7-iron, just came up a little bit on the breeze and the wind was stronger than I felt down there, came up just short, chipped it up, missed a 6-footer for par.   
 And 16, hit a good 2-iron off the tee, 6-iron just came up a little bit short left and lipped out the first putt and missed a 3-footer coming back down. So it was a little hiccup in the game.   
  
  Q. Not to take anything away from what you did on 18, but at the same time does the course seem like it's more receptive to things that haven't been done this week yet?  
 HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, it's definitely holding better the ball on the greens better today.   
  
  Q. You stopped it on 18. I haven't seen that all week. With a 3-iron.   
 HENRIK STENSON: Yeah. No. Well, hopefully I'll do that again later on then.  
  
  Q. What's the anticipation, three hours from now, this golf course could change dramatically in a three hour time frame?  
 HENRIK STENSON: I don't know if it's going to dry out a whole lot, but maybe a little bit, but I'll still think you're going to be able to be fairly aggressive towards the pin. And the wind, obviously if it's downwind it's going to be harder to stop it. If it's into you you can stop it dead on longer clubs, so it's going to be makeable for sure.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT