PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 7, 2008
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Very well played, that was a nice finish in particular, can you sum up your round today?
 HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, I played good today. Happy with my game. I just hit a lob-wedge, 3-putt on the first and I made two good birdies on 2 and 3 and had quite a lot of misfortune on the 4th, I was in a bunker and thinned it a little bit, overhit the green and hit the cart path and it bounced up against the fence and thought I was going to have to take a penalty, but the ref came over and said it was in between two poles and ended up making triple on the 4th hole, so after that, plotting away, and bogeyed the 9th, which was not hard, and just kept fighting and had some good luck after the rain break. I chipped in on 13, first shot coming back out and good save on 14 and good birdie on 15. Gave myself a couple of chances; had a good chance on 17 from six feet and I missed and scramble for par on the last.

 Q. To finish 1-over after the troubles on the front nine on particular, must be pleased with that? 
 HENRIK STENSON: Absolutely very happy with that. As I said I'm playing good and striking the ball pretty nicely and just trying to stay alive on the greens.

 Q. Robert Karlsson at the top of the leaderboard at the moment, Ryder Cup Team member, nice to see a couple of Swedes up there?
 HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, yeah, we are trying hard to contend in the majors and I think it will be a Swedish winner sooner or later. Might be this week, you never know.

 Q. Does your performance in the last major help give you a bit of confidence coming in?
 HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, think I play a little more relaxed now. I was hoping if I play steady, I would make The Ryder Cup team, and it's always nice when you get that good finish, and at least 85 percent, secured my spot, and gives me a little bit more relaxed mode when I play now.

 Q. Obviously we had a rain break today; was that an advantage, disadvantage? You obviously came back well after?
 HENRIK STENSON: I made two birdies and the rest par when I came out so I can take a few rain breaks.

 Q. Setup of the course, some saying very tough; how did you find it? 
 HENRIK STENSON: It is, it's a bit different. There's not too many of these old-style golf courses that we play that have undulated greens. There's quite a few tricky pin positions and they put them on the humps behind the greens and it's hard to get close and hard to putt one. 

 Q. Did you notice any difference on the greens after the weather, after the rain? 
 HENRIK STENSON: Not a whole lot. They might have been a tad slower and a little bit more receptive but not a huge difference. Just have to have a strong comeback and going to go get some meatloaf and get ready for tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT