BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 11, 2008
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Thoughts on the day?  
 HENRIK STENSON: Maybe didn't make as many putts today but still was in decent shape, hitting most of the fairways, gave myself plenty of chances but didn't quite make enough of them.  
  
  Q. You had a good finish at the BMW tied sixth, are you happy with how everything is timed for this run coming up?   
 HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, I think so. I've been trying to pace my season a little bit different this year, playing a little bit less. It's been working out pretty good so far. I have ten Top-10s so far, so working on adding a couple more.   
  
  Q. Obviously pretty pleased with your position in the tournament.   
 HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, we're going to be a couple of shots back by the end of the day for sure, but yeah, I've been plotting along, hitting a lot of 3-woods off the tee and finding fairways and finding greens, and yesterday I was putting really good and today I didn't quite make as many as I would have liked. I had plenty of chances.   
 I have some stuff that I'm working on, and it's a good time to hopefully start playing well.  
  
  Q. Is it hard to concentrate on this week with next week coming?   
 HENRIK STENSON: Not really. Qualifying for The Ryder Cup is still a big focus at the moment, so just trying to line up a couple of solid tournaments and add to the points that I already had. There's been some guys playing really well over the last couple of weeks, so it looks really tight. There's a lot of guys within a short distance.   
 So, you know, I'm just trying to plot along and have a couple of solid finishes.  
  
  Q. Does this feel like everybody says, back nine of a major on Sunday when it starts; does it feel like this is the back nine of the race to The Ryder Cup?   
 HENRIK STENSON: Possibly. Is it eight weeks left or something? This is the first one of the last eight tournaments then. Yeah, of course, I mean, there's a lot of points up for grabs this week, next week, and obviously the ones in America.   
 And I think with the breakdowns and the fields, it's still hard to make for a lot of guys coming into the PGA and Firestone, it's all top-heavy and the best players in the world are there. This is definitely a good week to play well.   
  
  Q. Where are you in the looking or not looking? Some guys check religiously every week and some don't.   
 HENRIK STENSON: I keep track of it. Obviously don't want to try to look too much, but all you can do is try to play solid and hopefully that will earn me a spot in this year's Ryder Cup Team.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT