U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 2018
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








HENRIK STENSON: All righty.  Fire away.
Q. How would you assess your round out there?
HENRIK STENSON: It was a different wind that we started out the day.  Front nine played -- 2nd and 3rd hole plays tough into this wind.  Then we've got some nice showers coming our way.  I managed to drop a few shots in those tougher conditions, and it was a grind on the front nine for sure.
Even though I would say it's playing easier than it was yesterday.  It was still tough out there, and I was making some, couple of saves to be 3 over at the turn.  So things were a little rough, but I was just trying to keep my patience and hanging in there.
Made pars on 10 and 11 and then a huge par save on 12.  That was playing into the wind again.  With this direction, some of the tougher holes are playing even tougher.  You've got 2, 3, 12 and 14 straight into the wind, and they're tough holes as they are.  So it certainly makes a few of those longer holes even longer in this wind direction.
That was huge, though, making that par save on 12.  Managed to make a birdie on 13, and then another couple of good saves on 14, 15 to keep the momentum.  And then I guess I saved the highlight of the day for 16, hit a really good drive down the middle of the fairway, and then gave it all with a 3 wood and managed to get it up to about 15, 20 feet from the hole and made that one for eagle to get two back.  So, yeah, that was a great hole.
Q. (No microphone).  So can you take that momentum into the weekend?
HENRIK STENSON: I still don't feel like I've played that great tee-to-green.  I've hit a lot of fairways and a lot of greens, but it's still been -- you know, not the quality of strike that I would have liked to have and the control of the direction all the time.
But certainly, when we needed two good swings on 16, we managed to find them.  So maybe I should just think I'm playing 16 over and over again then for the next 36 because, surely, we managed to pull something out when we needed to.
And, yeah, I feel like I battled well, I holed out well.  A lot of tricky par putts these last two days and just kept it together nicely.
Q. Did that weather come out of nowhere and surprise you a little bit?
HENRIK STENSON: I thought it looked like it could be rain, but the forecast didn't really say it.  I think there were a few guys that left the brolly in the locker room and had to have someone come run out with it.
I got -- yeah, it wasn't nice to play those three or four holes in the downpour.  Then it eased off a little bit and felt a bit more British Open than U.S. Open there for a while.
Q. And cold out there.  The ball looked like it was flying and falling.
HENRIK STENSON: No, you certainly, when it's drizzling down, a big wind, you've got a jumper on, and it's not that hard.  You're certainly not going to feel like you're going to get it full distance.
So, yeah, a lot of guys coming up short on No. 7 downwind, even though the numbers tell you you should get it there.  So, yeah, it was just a bit tricky in those conditions.
Q. The saves you talked about over kind of the first two days, the momentum does carry.  Seeing the little fist pumps, are you pleased with those saves and how well you're putting?
HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, I've just been trying to commit to my shots and my lines on the greens.  They're a bit bumpy, and it's hard to make a lot of putts.  But I managed to sneak a good few in there, so I'm going to continue with that.
I feel like you've just got to keep your head on and accept your mistakes and try not to compound errors and make it any worse.  So far, so good.
Q. Is Dustin Johnson catchable?
HENRIK STENSON: He's always catchable.  Oh, he's right here.  I think he's playing some really good golf, obviously, coming off a win last week and posted two really good rounds.  So, yeah, he's going to be hard to catch, but I'll let him answer those questions.  Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT