COMMERCIALBANK QATAR MASTERS PRESENTED BY DOLPHIN ENERGY
January 27, 2008
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Great final round, just outplayed on the last day.   
 HENRIK STENSON:  I'm very much willing to agree on that one, yeah.  No, it's not often you go out and shoot 65 and lose by three to somebody who played in front of you.  That's not happening too often I think.   
 So, I mean, I'm happy with the way I played and just take the hat off to Adam.  That's fantastic, one of the best rounds around here.  Well, it is the best round around here.    
 So he will auto be driving home in the Bimmer.   
  
  Q.  Were you looking at the leaderboard?   
 HENRIK STENSON:  Yeah, I knew I had to do something, and didn't birdie 1 or 2, but hit a good shot and birdied 3 and 4 and felt like I was going forward.  I just saw that he was in front all the time and I was just trying to catch up and hit a couple of wayward tee shots on the holes coming in.  When somebody is playing like that, he is in the zone and he was just going forward.   
  
  Q.  We don't often see final rounds like that.   
 HENRIK STENSON:  No.  I said yesterday, if somebody could steal the Bimmer on the weekend, I thought yesterday but with calm conditions again today, it belongs to Mr. Scott.   
  
  Q.  Overall your performance for the weekends, looking good for next week as well?   
 HENRIK STENSON:  Absolutely.  I'm delighted with the way I played this week.  A couple of tee shots that could have been better but still I really stepped it up a notch or two with the long game compared to last year.  I kept the fighting spirit, and the putting was good again and the scoring, and I don't think I made a bogey on the weekend.   
 So, yeah, I'm really happy with that and taking the positives and some more good Ryder Cup points in the bank and I'll just keep on moving forward.   
  
  Q.  Defending your title next week.   
 HENRIK STENSON:  Yeah, hopefully it's going to be hopefully easier than shooting 61s in the last round.  But no, that's going to be something extra to do that, both those weeks, Dubai and the Accenture is going to take some good golfing to defend that, but I'm looking forward to the challenge.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT