COMMERCIALBANK QATAR MASTERS PRESENTED BY DOLPHIN ENERGY
January 26, 2008
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   RODDY WILLIAMS:  Another very good round and just one shot back at the moment and going into the final day.   
 HENRIK STENSON:  Yeah, that was nice.  I felt yesterday was important that I finished with two birdies.  Played all right but not too much happening yesterday and I finished birdie, birdie and that kept me out in front of the boys a little bit.   
 Just went out and played solid on the front nine and obviously wished I could have picked up another shot or two on the back nine but still 5-under is a good score in these conditions.  Yeah, I should have a chance when tomorrow comes.   
 RODDY WILLIAMS:  The fact that you won here just a couple of years ago and you won in Dubai last year, you obviously like this area, this must give you a lot of confidence playing in this region.   
 HENRIK STENSON:  Yeah, I like all three courses we play, Abu Dhabi, Qatar and Dubai.  Of course that, keeps the good feelings around and it's nice to be back and nice to have a chance to win tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  There are a lot of past winners doing well here - does that say something about the course?   
 HENRIK STENSON:  Yeah, I just like the golf course.  I think it suits me game when I'm playing well.  I've been able to take advantage on a few of the holes and hit some good tee balls and make it a bit shorter that way.  Normally I'm a pretty good grinder when it gets tough conditions, as well and that's certainly something you need to be able to do around here.  Even if it was -- I wouldn't be surprised if it's up tomorrow again.   
  
  Q.  You always seem to play well early in the season while others are saying they are rusty?   
 HENRIK STENSON:  Well, I think -- and it's good to be up and running again, even though the last couple of years it's been shorter and shorter breaks.  I only had two weeks Christmas break and I went away and played in Hawaii.   
 So three years or two years I've played the Royal Trophy as the first week, and I just feel that's been a good thing to get up and running.  So when I come to Abu Dhabi, I've played four or five rounds already which definitely makes a difference.   
 I think that I feed off good memories and also when you start a new season, it's sort of back to scratch for everybody and you're sort of eager to get going again and get some points up early.   
 Also, I think I've done some good work with Pete, as well.  We normally get together this time of the year down here and he's down for all three weeks.  That's also good.  And I saw him before Abu Dhabi for a few days and that also started the game in the right direction again.   
  
  Q.  Big two weeks these ?   
 HENRIK STENSON:  Most definitely.  I will just go out there and try to play aggressive again tomorrow and hopefully on the back nine have a chance to win it.  That's all you can ask of yourself really.  It's going to be tight with so many guys up in the top, and yeah, I'm just happy to put myself in good position again.   
  
  Q.  Will Coltart have a lot to think about tomorrow?   
 HENRIK STENSON:  Possibly a little bit.  Those three holes, the thoughts of outcome, what is going to happen if I win this event and this and that, and that's what Martin had to do last week in Abu Dhabi, such a big lead going into the weekend but it's still 36 holes and it's a long way to go and it's easy to let your mind wander so way.  So I just stay focus on the shots I need to play.  Of course, there's different levels of pressure.  You can be under pressure for different things.   
 I'm just happy to see Andrew play well again, and I will not take that into consideration tomorrow when I try to beat him.  (Chuckling).   
  
  Q.  Is there more pressure to get it right this week as you go into next week?   
 HENRIK STENSON:  No, I'm just really happy.  I feel I was moving in the right direction from last week.  I was very happy with my performance last week to be able to be top three without playing very well and just keeping the scoring going.  And this week, I've hit much more quality shots and better off the tee, as well.   
 I'm just trying to get my game going in the right direction and then all of the results will come if I do so.   
 RODDY WILLIAMS:  Thanks very much.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT