ABU DHABI GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 18, 2008
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Thoughts on the day? 
 HENRIK STENSON:  It was quite tough out there, the wind was blowing. But I did get off to a good start and birdied 2, 3 and 4 with some great putting there but then missed a three footer on the fifth for par but after that it was like a grinding day out there in the wind and made 13 straight pars so not too much happening. I needed to close in a little bit and I had a good chance on the 17th which slipped by so I'll try and do some work on that on the weekend. 

 Q.  When you started presumably you were aware of Kaymer's score? He wondered how you had scored your 66 on the first day, did you wonder how he scored 65 today? 
 HENRIK STENSON:  Maybe they had slightly less wind yesterday afternoon and this morning but overall it was fantastic playing from him and I don't know, I'm open to any suggestions how to try and catch him on the weekend. 

 Q.  Were you conscious of that the whole day? 
 HENRIK STENSON:  Well I saw his number but I was eight under through four holes so I thought if I could keep on playing well and give myself some chances I could close on in on him and maybe finish on nine or ten or something like that. But it was tricky and I didn't play my very best so I am quite happy to hang on to seven under par. There is always the chance when one guy moves away from the field that they can come back but I doubt he will do but there is always a possibility and I will do my best to move forward these next two days. 

 Q.  I presume you appreciate just how good a player he is? 
 HENRIK STENSON:  He hasn't played that much on Tour yet but he is obviously a fantastic player and the result he has done this far shows that. 

 Q.  Have you ever played with him? 
 HENRIK STENSON:  No, it will be a first tomorrow. Haven't really watched him play at all. All I know is that Fanny helps him out a little bit with a bit of coaching so that will be interesting. Is she going to help him out at all tomorrow? 

 Q.  What does she say about him? 
 HENRIK STENSON:  She just says that he is the real deal and a great player. 

 Q.  Fanny won't be torn then? 
 HENRIK STENSON:  I don't think so. She wasn't torn when she beat me in the Scandinavian Masters play off in 2005 when she was caddying for Mark Hensby so I think she is loyal to whatever bag she is carrying, she wants to win as badly as I do. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT