BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 20, 2007
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   SCOTT CROCKETT:  Henrik, thanks for joining us, as always.  A big year last year for you obviously, defending champion and that led on to a lot of great things for you.  Just talk about your thoughts of being back here for this week. 
 HENRIK STENSON:  It's great to be back at the venue that you won before, and this one in particular.  I think BMW always hosts very well organised tournaments and great tournaments.  It's good fun to play them and it's always good to be back as a defending champion.  I'm yet to defend a title, and I wouldn't mind it the all. 
 SCOTT CROCKETT:  Obviously not quite the week you would have hoped for last week.  Would have been very hard for everybody; what are your recollections on your rounds at Oakmont? 
 HENRIK STENSON:  Yeah, exactly, it was a very tough golf course and I might not be playing particularly well at the time either.  So that makes it even harder.  It's such a difficult course. 
 Yeah, I didn't play great in the Pro-Am today either so I'm heading down to the range and try and work on the game and hopefully at least give it a shot for the weekend here. 

 Q.  The course we've heard has been set up very similar to Oakmont. 
 HENRIK STENSON:  Yeah, when you're coming from that rough, this one still seems to be playable.  But I agree, it's much thicker and harder than I can remember from previous years. 
 So I think it will definitely affect the scoring, and, yeah, I would imagine that the winning score might be a little bit higher than it's been in the past. 
 I can't remember what we were last year, 17- or 18-under I think, something like that. 

 Q.  Do you see it playing differently? 
 HENRIK STENSON:  Two shots, something like that.  15-under, 16-under. 

 Q.  Is your form just the ebb and flow of golf, or are you fighting something that's worrying you? 
 HENRIK STENSON:  No, I'm not fighting something that's worrying, no viruses.  No, I'm just not swinging great and not scoring great either at the moment. 
 So I don't know, I felt -- I always seem to be struggling during the spring and early summer and suffering from strong allergies normally doesn't help the energy levels either.  But still I managed to have a couple of Top 10's which was a step forward at one point, and the week before in Atlanta.  So at least we have a couple of decent tournament, yeah, not too long ago. 
 So I hope I can do some work this afternoon and play a bit better tomorrow. 

 Q.  Was there still an element of after you practised last week fearing the worst about where your game was for such a course? 
 HENRIK STENSON:  Yeah, a little bit.  It's always difficult to come into a major when you're not feeling -- there's not going to be many times you feel 100% with your game, but it doesn't make it any easier when you are feeling a little bit off and you know you're going to play such a tough golf course as we did. 

 Q.  Toughest you've ever played? 
 HENRIK STENSON:  Yeah, I'd say so. 

 Q.  You're No. 1 in Europe, and do you think you'll be favourite this year again for the tournament? 
 HENRIK STENSON:  Given my current form, I wouldn't put me as a favourite.  I think Ernie seemed to be playing all right yesterday when we made in the junior match, and he's always going to be tough to beat. 
 So yeah, put it on his shoulders instead of mine.  (Laughter). 

 Q.  There's been much talk today about caddies, Monty changing and not sure, and Casey this week; we know your caddie.  Are you very satisfied with the situation? 
 HENRIK STENSON:  Yeah, I wouldn't see a change in the near future.  No, Fanny's great, and we've had some great success in the fairly short time we've been together.  I think we had two wins in the first seven weeks or something. 
 No, she's doing a great job for me and I hope I can just play a little bit better to match up with her hard working.  She's really professional and hard working so, I hope I can be somewhat the same. 

 Q.  How long do you think she'll stay with you? 
 HENRIK STENSON:  You'd better ask her than me that question.  Yeah, I think she wouldn't be there forever, will she.  She's a little bit older than me -- we're not supposed to be talking about ladies age.  She's turning 40, so I can see her doing this for another couple of years and then I guess she'll do something else. 
 You're making me sad now; I'm going to start crying. 

 Q.  Tiger has beaten you to the baby, hasn't he. 
 HENRIK STENSON:  I know.  I couldn't beat him with that one. 

 Q.  When is the latest on when yours might pop? 
 HENRIK STENSON:  The given time is the third of July, so that's another two weeks from now.  I told Emma to sit still and cross her legs for another couple of days. 

 Q.  If you get a call, you could be off? 
 HENRIK STENSON:  I could be off, yeah.  We'll just have to see, won't we.  When the time -- if it happens.  I think it's pretty safe but you never know, Tiger's came early and that's happened before. 

 Q.  We would like to know what you think about Bernhard  Langer; what do you think about him? 
 HENRIK STENSON:  I got the same question yesterday.  He's turning 50 this year, isn't he?  I mean, he's a legend of the game and been one of the really strong players for a couple of decades now and one of the guy who is really grew The European Tour and European golf forward and he's a legend.  He's one of the idols when I grew up and started to play.  I'm sure it will be good fun to play with him this week. 
 SCOTT CROCKETT:  Any more questions? 
 HENRIK STENSON:  Very considerate.  I need to go to the range. 
 SCOTT CROCKETT:  Thank you. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT