WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 23, 2007
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   RODDY WILLIAMS:  Henrik, terrific win there.  You got the biggest winning margin of the day so far.  Nice day's work. 
 HENRIK STENSON:  Yeah, I'm really happy with that, not having to go up there the last hole again like I've done on the previous two matches.  So quite happy to be able to wrap it up 4 and 3, yeah. 
 RODDY WILLIAMS:  Pretty exciting day's golf and looks like will be a good weekend, as well.  How are you feeling coming into the next day? 
 HENRIK STENSON:  I didn't feel like maybe I played as solid as I did the first two rounds, but on a day like this you've just got to grind it out and try and stay patient and hopefully take the chances when you hit some good shots.  I seemed to do that. 
 I was a bit slow in the start again for the third round in a row, and managed to get it going sort of halfway through the round and on the back nine again.  So that always feels good when you finish in style. 
 RODDY WILLIAMS:  It was quite tough conditions out there today.  How did you cope with that? 
 HENRIK STENSON:  Well, we shared the -- we halved the 4th on a double and stuff like that.  It was some tough holes especially going out the first seven before you sort of turned around and played downwind. 
 So it was tough.  You've just got to try and make your pars, and birdies are bonuses. 

 Q.  I've been asking kind of all the younger guys, it's kind of strange that you guys have all kind of caught fire at the same time.  Half the bracket was 30 and under. 
 HENRIK STENSON:  All the younger guys, yeah.  I'm 31 in April, so -- 

 Q.  I mean, you're -- 
 HENRIK STENSON:  I'm still young?  That's good. 

 Q.  Well, you look young. 
 HENRIK STENSON:  Why we -- I lost you. 

 Q.  Is there a difference for maybe the golf style or something with match play that the younger guys are able to play? 
 HENRIK STENSON:  No, I don't think so.  I think it's just maybe on this course you'll see most guys that are winning matches I think are hitting it a long way off the tee, and I think that helps around here, and especially if it's tough conditions. 
 I mean, I played against Aaron today and he's a long hitter, so we were sort of battling it out a little bit off the tee on several holes.  Other than that you've just got to try to control your shots, and maybe he missed it in a few bad shots and then I hit a couple of really good shots and made a couple of birdies.  So I think that was the whole difference. 

 Q.  You've gone about your business very quietly this week and almost arrived at this stage, from my point of view, under the radar.  Was that part of your strategy, just to quietly go about your business? 
 HENRIK STENSON:  Well, the strategy was obviously to win my matches.  I had a really tough match against Zach the first day and almost equal as tough yesterday, so it was just nice to be able to win this one quite comfortable on the back nine. 
 I don't know, staying under the radar or not, depends on where you're looking. 
 RODDY WILLIAMS:  Good luck. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT