WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 22, 2007
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Nice match.  Congratulations.  It was a tight match all the way.   
 HENRIK STENSON:  Yeah, same as yesterday.  I made a birdie on 14 to go 2-up and I thought things were looking really good, but then he came back strong and birdied 15.  Then he drained a 30-odd footer on 16 to make it all even.   
 I made a great two-putts on 17 to birdie that one to go 1-up on 18 and hit it close there.  It was far away, but considering he holed that putt on 16, I wasn't sure what he was going to putt there.  He missed and I made my seven-footer for birdie.   
  
  Q.  The Swedes are charging, Niclas Fasth also won.  You're both in the final 16.   
 HENRIK STENSON:  Yeah, it was great.  It was a good win against Goosen.   
  
  Q.  Keys to today's round for you?   
 HENRIK STENSON:  I was maybe not driving the ball as well in the early part, but then got a good one going on the back nine.  I think I shot like 5-under on the back nine or something so came in with a strong finish, so that feels good for tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  Aaron Baddeley in the next round.   
 HENRIK STENSON:  A bit surprising.  It looked like Luke --   
  
  Q.  He was 3-up with six to play; he lost on the last.   
 HENRIK STENSON:  That's a bit painful for him, but that's the way it is in match play.  You know, sometimes a guy makes a few birdies and you make pars, and then obviously if you make a bogey and he makes par it can sort of be double swings there.   
 This is my second year out in this tournament.  I lost in the second round last year.  I've gone past that this year, so it feels good to just go out there and give it a rip tomorrow again.   
  
  Q.  Each match you win obviously gives you more confidence, gets momentum going?   
 HENRIK STENSON:  Yeah, but it's also tiring.  I've been up to the 18th both days.  It would feel good to get it and play really well and have a few up coming into the last few holes.  Tough guys to beat the two matches I've played, so hopefully I can play a bit better tomorrow and save a little bit of energy.  You don't mind going to 18, or 36 holes, as long as you win.   
  
  Q.  K.J. is a tough competitor, he was climbing back at you there, wasn't he?   
 HENRIK STENSON:  Definitely.  As I said, I birdied 14 to go 2-up, and 15 I tried to play the sensible play and mis-hit it a bit.  So I left myself a very long birdie putt on 15, and he went straight at it, got it to about 12 feet or something like that, 12, 15 feet, and he rolled that one in.   
 Then on the next I hit a good shot and he had just an average one and then he drained it from 35, 40 feet across the green.  Obviously it was one of them you don't expect him to hole and he did.  That's the thing with match play.  You've always got to think that he's going to hole it.  It's the same on the last.  You're standing down on the fairway and he hit a pretty sort of average shot into the last, but I've still got to think that I need to make the birdie.  If he would have made his he stood a pretty good chance to win the match on 18.   
  
  Q.  Aaron was saying you're quite good mates, the two of you.   
 HENRIK STENSON:  Yeah, we met each other when he played in Europe my first couple years on Tour, so I know him, and he's had some good success over here.  No, I think it's going to be a tough match tomorrow for sure.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT