THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 12, 2018
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Have you ever played with a gigantic lead?  I'm sure you have, and about the psychology of that sort of -- what you think about on the final day?  
HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, I would love to be in that position.   
 Q.  But you have in some tournament I'm sure?  
HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, I've had a big lead.  I think Sun City comes to mind, when I won that back in 2008.  I think I had a seven-shot lead going into the last round and managed to extend it I think to nine or 11 at one point.  I mean, it's great; you obviously are playing some really good golf if you're going to separate yourself from everyone else and you've just got to keep on doing what you're doing.  Every par, every birdie, every hole is one step closer to the finish line.  So you just got to stay in the moment and keep on doing what you do best and then it will take something really, really good from someone else if they're going to change that, but of course if you throw in a double-bogey at the wrong time and someone else throws a couple of birdies at you, that's a four-shot swing in a couple of holes.  All of a sudden you might feel the pressure a whole lot more.   
So it's all about not making mistakes yourself and keep on playing the way you are.   
 Q.  Was that the mentality when you were nine up, saying, let's see if we can make it 10, let's see if we can make it 11?  Did you have a goal?  
HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, you want to try and press and make birdies on the holes where the other guys are going to make birdies, but on this golf course I don't think there's -- there's certain holes for sure on the back nine where it might come back and bite you if you are trying to be -- there's no need.  If I've got a seven-shot lead I don't need to try and push at the wrong time.  It's all about making solid pars, giving yourself chances and get one and take the box on every hole and get closer to the finish.  So, yeah, you don't want to go overly defensive, but there's no point in trying to push.   
 Q.  Yesterday you were looking for artillery after the 8 to fire you back into Orlando.  Do you need a cannon today, or how do you feel about the round?  
HENRIK STENSON: No I'll save it for tomorrow when we're done here, then I'll take a short trip home.  I played nicely today.  I was happy with the way I played.  I didn't get a lot out of it, so it was a bit frustrating.  I had a couple good tee shots, one ended up in divot, one took a bad bounce on one occasion, and a couple of lipouts and close calls on the greens.  I felt like the only thing I did wrong was the poor tee shot on 11 that cost me a bogey.  Other than that I played nicely but I just couldn't get the score with me today.  Hopefully tomorrow.   
There's days when you play nicely and don't really make a score and there's other days where you're playing average and get away with 3-, 4-under.  So we'll take the rough with the smooth and just focus on the good stuff.   
 Q.  With him being so far in front, does that change your goals?  
HENRIK STENSON: No, it's very bunched up, as you can see.  With the soft conditions it's bunched up the field, and with the morning guys getting almost a full round in before it starts blowing, it's very bunched up.  You make a bogey, you're going 10 spots down; if you make a birdie, you're going 10 forward.  My game plan doesn't change.  I would hope to finish with a strong round tomorrow.  Other than that, we'll come back next year.   
 Q.  Are you surprised at how many low scores there are this week?  
HENRIK STENSON: I'm surprised by the setup.  It's not played as easy as far as I remember almost.  That is surprising, but that's why you see so many good scores out there and that's why it's so bunched up.  It doesn't really separate the field that much.  Take the soft conditions with the morning/afternoon play, that varies as well, that's why you see everyone kind of bunched up in the middle there.   
 Q.  Do you expect them to set it up tougher tomorrow to try and separate?  
HENRIK STENSON: I don't know if you can make that big of a change one day, and I don't know if that's the way forward.  I would like to see that kind of pushed for the firm and faster setup earlier in the week and play the whole week that way.  Hopefully next year when we have a different date we can get this course back to the firm, fast conditions.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT