DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 3, 2007
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   RODDY WILLIAMS:  Henrik, thanks very much for coming in to join us.  We are going to be quite quick because Ernie is right behind you as well.  Shaping up for a very exciting final day for you.   
 HENRIK STENSON:  Yeah, it's pretty bunched up, a lot of guys will have a chance tomorrow and I'm one of them.   
 So, yeah, I mean, I'm happy to be in that position.  Maybe the delays and everything is not the perfect thing for me because I'm a bit tired coming into my fourth week now.  Can't wait to go on vacation.   
 So it was pretty rough being up there again and finishing off the last couple of holes on the second day, regroup and then out again.   
 Played okay.  Didn't putt as well as in the second round but still in with a good chance tomorrow.   
 RODDY WILLIAMS:  I think you're going to be in the final group with Ernie the man to catch, how do you feel about that?   
 HENRIK STENSON:  Yeah, he's in there, and Woods.  It's going to be a tight race tomorrow I think, definitely.  He's playing very well and I think he's going to be the one to look extra for.   
  
  Q.  You just mentioned it then but Ernie when he's hitting the ball like he is coming in, he is fairly ominous, isn't he?   
 HENRIK STENSON:  No, he was playing really solid.  I played all three rounds with him.  No, he's in good shape and he's definitely doing the right thing.  So I think he's going to be tough to beat.   
  
  Q.  What do you have to do tomorrow, do you have to just go for it?   
 HENRIK STENSON:  I sort of try and get the round going and then see how I'm playing and coming into the back nine I'm going to see a little bit more the whole standing of the show and I might take some more aggressive decisions.  You've got 18, 17, 13, and 10, so you've got good opportunities to go low on the back nine.   
  
  Q.  The way the holes stack up, it could be a really thrilling finish, the nature of the stretch.   
 HENRIK STENSON:  I'm not getting that one.   
  
  Q.  It would be a very exciting finish just because of the way the holes are.   
 HENRIK STENSON:  Yeah, it's good finish to the golf course, and it really gives you the opportunity to go aggressive if you want to.  I mean, Ernie did on 17 today with a driver.   
 That's like one of the things that I have in mind, if I need to eagle that one to try and catch somebody.  You know, it's always a possibility but I didn't feel I was hitting it that good.  So I sort of played the percentage shot today.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT