ABU DHABI GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 18, 2007
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Is it nice to have got to know this course, second time around here?   
 HENRIK STENSON:  Yes definitely. There are some improvements, it's been lengthened so it's tough and in great conditions. It's just fun to be here again.   
  
  Q.  A lot has happened since last year?   
 HENRIK STENSON:  I put some high standards on the board last year and if I can do anything close to that this year I will be really happy. I am just going to dig in and try hard.  I played a lot of tournaments last year and still not perfectly rested. I will take one day at a time here and one week at a time in the early part of the year. I have a break after these three weeks and try to recharge the batteries for the rest of the season.   
  
  Q.  What was the key to getting it round in six under?   
 HENRIK STENSON:  It was getting late to the course! I took a detour on the way here and was in a crash. It could have been a nasty one. I managed to avoid it. I scratched the car. I missed the road on the way from the Emirates Palace and took a detour and not far away a lorry turned straight in front of me, and I had to hit the brakes but just avoided going into the side of it. I scratched the car and ended up in the sand off the road. I got here 45 minutes ahead of my tee time instead of an hour and 45 minutes.   
That's regular for me here, though. Last year I had back problems coming into this week; then I had a stomach flu on Thursday and shot a course record on the Saturday, so it's always eventful for me here! Some funny things happen. I hit the lorry, but I could see him turn in front of me all of a sudden from the opposite traffic. I stopped. He didn't speak English. Said sorry but I didn't have time to wait for police. I felt a bit sleepy in the morning but that got the adrenaline going. I didn't have many swings on the range. An eventful day. A good start to be 6 under after being 19 under for 72 holes last year.   
  
  Q.  What went through your mind?   
 HENRIK STENSON:  You just react. I was flat out on the brakes. It was my own car. It wasn't my fault but you think, don't turn, don't turn! I felt shaken up when I went off the road. It's my first scrape since coming out here.   
  
  Q.  Caddie this week?   
 HENRIK STENSON:  A friend from Barseback but he knows he's getting the boot after this week. Fanny is coming out to join me in Qatar.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT