TARGET WORLD CHALLENGE
December 14, 2006
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
 HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, absolutely. It's a great score, and I might have done it  slightly different than planned because I didn't get it going on the par 5s  early, which I think is the key around this course normally, and I just made --  I think I made three birdies on the par 3s today. Iron shots were good and didn't get the  putter going early on, either, but certainly on the back nine, made a couple in  a row there and had some good iron shots, so it was pretty solid.  
  
 HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, I hit too much club there in the back  of the green, it was a long one, so I made probably a 30-footer for birdie.  
 10, I hit a six-footer. It was a 3-wood, sand iron.  
 13, short-sided myself right and had  to chip it up on the green and made a long one, 25 feet, 30 feet.  
 15, par 3, hit a good 6-iron to  about ten feet.  
 Next one, I hit the green in two,  two-putted for birdie.  
 Then hit an 8-iron to about eight  feet on 17.   
 I just had a really good chance on  18, as well, that just slipped by.  
  
  Q.  How far was your putt on 18?  
 HENRIK STENSON: It was probably about 12 feet.   
  
  Q.  It's been a long, long season for you.  Is there any element of tiredness there and is that a factor at all  today, after last week especially in Barbados?  
 HENRIK STENSON: Not on the course, but I'm definitely running  on fumes. This is my 31st event this  year, so I'm in good need of a break, and I'm having one right after this  tournament. I hope I can finish up the  season with a good week here and get some rest and get ready for next  year. We've got a team in Thailand and then we'll play three weeks in  the Middle   East. It's going to be sort of a Middle East swing, my home tournaments down there.   
  
  Q.  Having played as much as you have, what was the allure of coming to this  tournament? What made you decide to put  this on the schedule so late in the year?  
 HENRIK STENSON: I mean, it's both -- I played both Sun City and this week that I didn't know of  when I put my schedule down early this year.  But you're not turning down these great events with a limited field and  a good course and everything is well-organized.  It's not an option to turn this week down.   
  
  Q.  Any concern -- you mentioned you're kind of running on fumes. Will you kind of cut back on the practice  this week, not do much to try and stay fresh?  
 HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, I sort of had Monday off, last week had  Monday off and half of Tuesday, and this week I had both Monday and Tuesday  off. If we kept on going, I probably  wouldn't even have started on Thursday.   
 Yeah, the clubs are away now. I'm not hitting a single shot afterwards,  just try and conserve the energy I've got and use it on the course.  
  
  Q.  Could you go through your travel routes starting with South Africa?  
 HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, I was sort of looking at it before I  left from Dubai, going to South Africa, and I came up with probably just  over 60 hours in a plane for these three weeks, from Dubai to South Africa and through London to Barbados to here and then back to New York and back to Dubai.  We've got a few air miles.   
  
  Q.  How many miles do you think it is?  
 HENRIK STENSON: I don't know miles, but it's about 60 hours  in the air. It's just a little bit more  than the average drive (laughter).   
  
  Q.  I suppose it's easier to keep going when you get off to a great start  like you have today?  
 HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, definitely. I've had a lot of really good finishes and  wins have been when I've had a strong first round and then sort of kept going  on the momentum, so hopefully this can be another one just the same.  
  
  Q.  It's a fun event, though. Have  you managed to play any practical jokes on any of the guys here this week?  
 HENRIK STENSON: No, I just had a blast yesterday with the  boys in the Pro-Am. This one lady, she  was going to take a picture of her husband and myself, and she had the digital  camera turned around. We were watching  on the screen, and she took the picture of her own face (laughter). I mean, that sort of lightened up the whole  thing a little bit. She's going to be  excited that I mentioned that in the press.   
  
  Q.  What about your long-term goals? I  mean, you've obviously come on a huge amount in the last couple of years. What kind of ambitions or targets have you  set for yourself for the 12 months ahead?  
 HENRIK STENSON: I mean, I would like to try and improve my  World Ranking and break into the Top 10.  I mean, I've been 11th at best, and I think I'm currently in 12th. I feel like I've established myself as a  strong player up among the top 20 in the world now, so just try and improve on  that and get inside the top 10, and my long-term goals are to improve on the  majors. I want to be up there in the big  events and hopefully win a few.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible.)  
 HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, I mean, PGA was good because I  struggled a little bit this summer, so I just got it back on pretty good form  there. I didn't play well enough for  four rounds, and the week after I had a bad start at the Bridgestone  Invitational and played bad on the weekend, but it still gave me a bit of  confidence back, and then I went on to win in Germany the following week. It was sort of a bit of a kick-start at the  PGA and then I played well at the Ryder Cup and the weeks after, as well.   
 It's been a great year for me, and I  played well early and then struggled a little bit over the summertime and got  it going in the fall again. Hopefully we  can play well all year round next year.   
  
  Q.  You mentioned you didn't quite take advantage of the par 5s early  today. What sort of kick-started you  this afternoon?  
 HENRIK STENSON: I made the long putt on 3 and then sort of  nothing happened on the front nine, and then made the birdie on 10, a little  bit you expect yourself to make a birdie on that hole. Then it was probably that long putt I made on  13 that got me to 3-under, then had some good shots from there on in and made  the putts.   
 I'd say that putt sort of got it  going a little bit.   
  
  Q.  Just curious, the Europeans and Australians, a lot of the golfers have  become pretty popular here in the States, and I'm wondering especially the last  couple years you've had, can you walk into a coffee shop here and get  recognized, or off the golf course do people tend to not notice you?  
 HENRIK STENSON: I can do whatever I want off the golf course  and nobody would recognize me, no.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible.)  
 HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, more and more I'd say, but I think it's  sort of still very related to golf course.  If they see me in Dubai or Sweden and they see me at a golf course,  they recognize me, but not so much off the course, which is nice.   
  
  Q.  Has there been any benefits from sinking the winning putt in the Ryder  Cup, psychological?  
 HENRIK STENSON: I think it was just an unbelievable  week. I mean, the crowds, and we said  that often, when are we going to play in front of home crowds again that good,  if we're ever going to do it. It was  just a great experience, and that's just a small little bonus getting mentioned  a few extra times, holing that putt. But  we would have won with or without it, so it doesn't mean that much to me.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible.)  
 HENRIK STENSON: A little bit.  I mean, it's been mentioned a few times.  I remember McGinley's putt was shown quite a lot on telly after the  Belfry, but that was in a slightly different situation, as well. The match was much tighter.   
 But it's just nice to be part of the  European team and to be able to win it on home soil.   
  
  Q.  Do you look upon last week in Barbados, disappointment there, but was it a  missed opportunity to enter a playoff for the World Cup or a great comeback by  you and Carl?  
 HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, I hit some bad shots early on  there. It was just pouring down on the  first tee. You're running out there  trying to get it over with on the second, trying to slow it down, and I managed  to do that and it plugged in the bunker.  We got off to a bad start and then worked our way back, and with the  birdies on 12 and 13 we were right there, and then we just -- very  disappointing that we couldn't make any birdies on 14, 15 or 16, and then we  obviously bogeyed the last. It was  disappointing.   
 It was still a good week, but would  have wished for more having tied 2nd last year and just missing out on a  playoff. But third time will be lucky  next year.  
  
  Q.  You mentioned being mentioned out on the street in Sweden.  All the crowds following Tiger this week and John Daly, et cetera, tell  me about your gallery today. How big was  it or how small was it?   
 HENRIK STENSON: It wasn't that much spectators on the front  nine. There were a few brave ones. Then as groups finished, certainly there was  a bit more crowd on the back nine. I  think we'll get more on the weekend. I  don't know who I will be playing with tomorrow.  Tiger? I'll have my crowds  tomorrow, don't worry about it.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible.)  
 HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, I'm taking up membership. I'd say I'll play 50/50 sort of between  American and Europe, mainly from the Match Play up until  the U.S. Open I'm mainly going to play in America.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible.)  
 HENRIK STENSON: No, I played well enough this year to sort of  get my card for next year.   
  
  Q.  You didn't use the driver very often, I think, playing with Tiger in the  Firestone I think maybe it was last year.  Did you use the driver much today and will you be using it much  tomorrow?  
 HENRIK STENSON: There are a few drives out there on the par  5s mainly, and that was the funny thing, odd thing today. I hit good tee shots on the par 5s but I  managed to end up with 25-footers at best for birdie. So that was a bit weird to hit good tee shots  and not being able to take advantage of them.  But hopefully tomorrow -- it's going to be mainly on the par 5s where I  hit driver, otherwise it's a lot of strategical tee shots around this course.   
  
  Q.  How many times have you played with Tiger and what's it like playing  with him, not only him but the galleries?  
 HENRIK STENSON: I played at the American Express in '05,  played the first two rounds this year at Dubai, and I played with him in China at the HSBC tournament in China.  In China it wasn't that good because the  crowd was just wild.   
 Otherwise I enjoy playing with  him. He's great to play with and  obviously the best golfer in the world, so I really enjoy it, and I think the  crowds are going to be a bit more behaved here tomorrow. There was a lot of mobile phones and cameras  in China, so it got a little bit annoying in the end  for everybody in the group. Everybody is  looking forward to it.   
   
  End  of FastScripts…  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT