ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 4, 2006
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Welcome to Carnoustie. How have you found the past week or so since The Ryder Cup? 
HENRIK STENSON:  It has been pretty hectic. Holing the winning putt has meant a lot more interviews. The Ryder Cup was a tiring week. There was a lot going on in the run-up and then there's the tension: you take a lot out of yourself when you are playing. So last week I was a bit tired and I have not done that much running up to this event. Today will be the first 18 holes I have played this week.
Q. Tiring, but still on a high from that magnificent victory?
HENRIK STENSON:  Yes, it was a fantastic experience and I was very delighted to be part of that strong team. I have not made that much of a deal about the putt - it would definitely have been different if it had been a deciding putt - because we would have won with or without it. But I guess it is a nice little bonus that the putt will run on TV a few hundred times.
Q. You were quite modest afterwards, for reasons you have just said, but would you like to be remembered for holing the winning putt in The Ryder Cup? For instance, it is often the first thing people say about Paul McGinley - would you like that to be what people most remember you for?
HENRIK STENSON:  I just want to be remembered as part of the team that won in Ireland in what was a fantastic week. It will be easy to be remembered because of that putt, but I don't want to make a big deal of it.
Q. And your thoughts looking ahead to the challenges this week?
HENRIK STENSON:   I have done well here in the past - one third and one sixth place - so I am hoping to come up with something similar. This is my second last week of this year's Order of Merit so if I want to have a sniff at finishing top three or even have a small chance of winning it, then I need to have a really good week. This is definitely a big chance to make up some ground and give myself a good chance at Valderrama.
Q. Was winning the Order of Merit a goal when you started the season?
HENRIK STENSON:  I finished eighth last year and my goal for the Order of Merit was to improve on that. It is looking good at least. Nothing is for sure but most likely I will improve on that. I need to play some good golf this week and again at Valderrama.
Q. Do you enjoy the format this week and do you find it more relaxing?
HENRIK STENSON:  I have played a lot of pro-ams and company days, so I am quite used to this. Last year, I only played nine holes running into the event and finished third, so it's not one of those weeks where I have had to work too hard leading up to it, mainly because I know all the courses. I do not know how the courses are set up this year but this one (Carnoustie) is one of the tougher ones for sure.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT