WGC AMERICAN EXPRESS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 29, 2006
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Two pretty good rounds of golf, although yesterday was quite interesting.  What was the difference between yesterday and today?
HENRIK STENSON:  Yesterday, I played good yesterday, but I had two double bogeys on the score card and that sort of throws the day a bit.  It was still a different score, but I was expecting a bit more.  And same thing, I drove the ball nicely today and just kept it in play and then gave myself chances and took a few of them.
Q.  Is it a course that you thought at start of the week when you came and had a look at it that you could do well on?
HENRIK STENSON:  Yeah, I think so.  It's fairly long.  It really helps if you can drive it well off the tee and I've done that so far.  That suits me.

Other than that, I was very tired from last week, and preparations coming into this week wasn't maybe the best.  But we're still in good shape and looking forward to the weekend.
Q.  What did you do to try to conserve a bit of energy over the week leading up to this?
HENRIK STENSON:  I didn't do anything Monday and just very little on Tuesday, hours of practise, and played 18 holes on Wednesday.  Coming to a course with fairly difficult greens, it's maybe not the best to see it once, but it's working out all right.
Q.  What do you think being part of that winning Ryder Cup Team will do for you?  Will it make any difference to your individual career?
HENRIK STENSON:  Well, a little bit.  I'll get more interviews.  (Laughing.)

No, just a little bit more attention.  I feel confident coming from Ryder Cup and that sort of gives me a bit of momentum this week.
Q.  Just one last thing, a bit of dispute who sunk the winning putt.  We gave it to you.  Have you talked to anyone within the team?
HENRIK STENSON:  No.
Q.  Anyone trying to steal it off you?
HENRIK STENSON:  No, they are happy to keep it that way.  As we said before, it's not a big thing, we were going to win with or without that putt.  It would have been a big thing for me if it was the real decider, but it's just a nice bonus.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT