BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
September 3, 2006
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








KLAUS WAESCHLE:  Congratulations, Henrik Stenson, of the winner of the coming from Denmark, Henrik Stenson.
HENRIK STENSON:  Sweden.
KLAUS WAESCHLE:  Sweden?  Impossible. (Laughter).
HENRIK STENSON:  It could have been in the beginning for you.  (Laughter).
KLAUS WAESCHLE:  Going to the playoff, had you any second in your mind what happened at Shanghai?
HENRIK STENSON:  No, I felt this was mine.  I lost in Sweden last year in a playoff and came awfully close at the BMW Asian Open earlier this year, and I thought, well, so it's unlucky.  Let's go and get it.
Q.  Inaudible?
HENRIK STENSON:  When do you mean, in the playoff?
Q.  No, after the playoff.
HENRIK STENSON:  It's always    tension is high and just as much as happiness, it's always relief when you finish, as well.

I was just trying to hit some good shots in the playoff.  I felt like I had nothing to lose, especially since Padraig had a good chance on the 72 and just missed that one, and it was a bonus chance to win the tournament.  Just try to hit a good drive, and I wasn't overly happy with my second shot.  I thought it came out a bit too much left, which it did, and just bounced off that mound a little bit.  When you're winning, you can have that little bit of luck, and I had that on the playoff hole today.

I had a great chance on 16 in regulation play that just went by.  That putt looked like it was going to drop and I missed the short putt on 17.  So I didn't have the right breaks on my last round in general, so it was good to have it on the first extra hole.
Q.  We saw your face on the big screen and after the second shot, you didn't look really happy, so when did you realise that this was an incredible shot?
HENRIK STENSON:  When I heard the crowds go nuts.  And they didn't stop, either.  They kept on screaming and clapping.  I said to my caddie, "I guess that one's fairly close,"  at least within a couple of metres.  It was nice to walk up there and see it, I don't know how long it was, 1 1/2 metres, or something like that.
Q.  This must boost your confidence for the Ryder Cup, and also how great is it for Woosie to see you and Padraig Harrington and Colin Montgomerie and David Howell contending, too?
HENRIK STENSON:  I felt I started to play a bit better in America a couple of weeks ago and I drove the ball nicely this week.  Just to be up in contention felt good again, and feel the pressure a little bit more than it's been the of the last couple of months.

Yeah, my goal was to put myself in a position to win within a couple of shots going into the back nine, and I think I was around tied for the lead going into the back nine.

No, it's obviously very satisfying to have the win, and the next one I'm going to play is in Ireland.  So I'm sure Woosie is happy that a few of us have played really well this week, and still, two weeks' time, 2 1/2 weeks, it's a different thing, but hopefully we can continue.
Q.  Were there times in the last few months where you were worried about how you were playing, not so much for making the team which was done several months ago, but how you might play at The K Club?
HENRIK STENSON:  Not really.  I wouldn't say I was really worried.  I felt I've been playing really well so my game was turning around and going in the right direction.  Some guys who have been playing well, you can sort of lose it a little bit.  I just tried to hang in there and keep on working on the good things that have given me the good results in the past, and it seems to be going in the right direction again now obviously.
Q.  What was the mood on 17?
HENRIK STENSON:  Obviously I wasn't happy with that, but I still felt I could eagle the last.  I just tried to look forward, obvious.  I wasn't happy missing a short putt for par there, especially not with the one on 16 just missing and then making a bogey off what looked to be a birdie on 16 felt a little bit so so.

But just hit a good tee ball and ended up just in the left of the rough, and I could play 5 iron to run up the green and give myself a did eagle chance.  And I had a really nice putt and made the birdie and I could only wait and watch, and I got the chance and I took it, so I'm delighted.
Q.  Can you tell us what length of shot you had to the 18th in the playoff and what club you played?
HENRIK STENSON:  I had 210 metres.  I played a 5 iron.  You probably would have played a 6, but I had to go for a 5.  (Laughter).
KLAUS WAESCHLE:  You did have this year, today 68, 15 under 273, the highest for a winner here; what made the course so difficult to play this year?
HENRIK STENSON:  I think the rough has been thicker than it's been before and there's been a few changes to the course, as well, I believe.  There's been a few new bunkers and slight redesign of a few holes.  If you don't drive it in the right place, then keeping it on the fairway is the main thing.

And I think also, I mean, it was quite a bit of rain there, so the greens were pretty soft and the ball seemed to spin back a lot.  So it was quite tricky to get it close to the hole early on in the week.  Yeah, I guess that's the reasons.
Q.  Thomas was your partner in the Seve Trophy last year, would you feel gutted for him if he didn't get the wild card; it's up in the air?
HENRIK STENSON:  Well, it's a close call.  I think whoever Woosie picks is going to be the right one.  There are a few guys in there who I'm sure every one of them would be a great addition to the team.  And of course, I feel sorry for him if he doesn't get a pick, but, you know, that's the reality.

Thomas is a great player, and whoever    if he doesn't get it, whoever does get it is also a good player.  It's not up to me.  I'm sure if he doesn't get it, he'll bounce back and be in for the next one.
KLAUS WAESCHLE:  Once more, congratulations to Henrik Stenson.  Great four rounds, perfect playoff.  Congratulations, and we hope to see you at the BMW International Open 2007 for sure.  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT