THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 25, 2006
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
HENRIK STENSON:  It's been a tough three days.  It's a challenging golf course, and I'm not playing particularly well tee to green, and I've been fighting hard to get the score together.
Q.  Talk about the ace.
HENRIK STENSON:  Yeah, it was my second one.  I made my first one at the practice round of La Costa earlier this year.  It's been like 20 years without one, and now I've made two within two months' time.  It was a good 7 iron, landed just 20 feet short of the pin and released up into the hole.
Q.  Crazy how those things happen, just come in bunches?
HENRIK STENSON:  Exactly, and then Tom made a bunker shot from an almost impossible lie, so it happens, yeah.
Q.  It looked like you held your club for a second and almost couldn't believe it?
HENRIK STENSON:  Yeah, I mean, I felt pretty uncomfortable all day.  When I stand up to the shots, especially in this wind, and then all of a sudden ace appears from nowhere, you get a bit surprised.
Q.  Talk about the Swedes, five of you Swedish players made the cut.  You guys are really making your mark at this tournament?
HENRIK STENSON:  Yeah, it's kind of nice.  I don't think we've had any great finishes before.  I think Jesper has been like 20th or something.  We're trying to prove ourselves tomorrow.
Q.  Are you thinking of bringing your game over to the States more often?
HENRIK STENSON:  For sure this year.  I'm exempt for the majors and World Tour events, so I'm playing about eight or nine tournaments this year.  We'll see by the end of the year if I want to come over more regularly or if I'm happy keeping at that level.
Q.  Wind conditions?
HENRIK STENSON:  Oh, it's very tough.  Like everybody else says, it's gusting around.  You think it's downwind and then it's into you and it just swirls about, especially on firm greens, a lot of water, and you've just got to be on your toes all the time around here.
Q.  When you're throwing grass up and getting different results, are you just kind of guessing and then we're going to go with that?
HENRIK STENSON:  Sometimes you just go with what you feel, but most of the times    you go with your previous holes and where the wind direction should be.  You've got to just try and figure it out somehow.
Q.  Are you happy with 6 under par?
HENRIK STENSON:  For sure.  I've been fighting like a dog for three days.

Heading down to the range, and I'm going to try and sort out the long game a little bit.
Q.  Can you ever feel comfortable on this course when you see what happened with Robert a couple days ago and then Adam Scott, two former champions who are awesome golfers?
HENRIK STENSON:  I think you can be confident, but I don't think you ever can relax that much.  I mean, it's a challenging golf course, and if you're not careful you can take a big number.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT