DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 2, 2006
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Henrik, congratulations on last week.  You must be feeling a bit tired coming into this week.
HENRIK STENSON:  Yeah, it was tough to get going early on in the week.  Yesterday in the Pro Am it was difficult to lift a golf club.  I'm quite pleased with the score today.  Got a pretty good number.
Q.  The round today, the highs and lows?
HENRIK STENSON:  Just started off with a birdie and then dropped one on 4 and then made a good birdie on 7.  So it was not too much happening and made a good run there and made birdie on 10, 11.  Chipped in for eagle on 13 and had a couple of chances for birdie on the last couple of holes.
Q.  I know you've played with Tiger before, but what's it like?  Did you enjoy it?
HENRIK STENSON:  Absolutely.  I like playing with him.  He's obviously the best player we've got in the world.  So it's a challenge and it makes me try and make my best.  I enjoy it.
Q.  Your goals this week, what would you be aiming for?
HENRIK STENSON:  I've had a few good runs together    just taking it week by week and try and have a good week.
Q.  Ryder Cup points?
HENRIK STENSON:  Absolutely, I would like to have more at end of the week.
Q.  You were just talking about you were ten yard short of Tiger, was there much competition?
HENRIK STENSON:  Not really.  I don't feel I swung the club that great today so I played quite a few 3 woods.  He was 15 or 20 yards further on a couple of the other ones.  I hit driver on a few holes where he hit.  I just tried to keep it together, really and put a good number on the board.
Q.  Do you ever feel an element of match play?
HENRIK STENSON:  Oh, I don't know, it's so early in the competition.  Really you just try and play six holes together in the last six and then it's a match play situation perhaps.  It's very early.  Of course when he's making birdie, I'll try to follow it.
Q.  Did you chat?
HENRIK STENSON:  Yeah, chatted a bit, a few jokes.
Q.  Anything in particular, the long hitting?
HENRIK STENSON:  No.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT