WGC AMERICAN EXPRESS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 9, 2005
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
HENRIK STENSON:  I'm happy with the performance.  It was a bit of a struggle on the green.  I didn't feel I putted that good today, so it was nice to sort of knock one in there on 17 and make the par putt on 18.  I think I fought pretty well out there and I'm happy with the performance.
Q.  There were a lot of thoughts and concerns about the course coming in.  How did you feel about how everything was playing out here for four days?
HENRIK STENSON:  It's been getting a bit firmer, so it's tricky, especially 18.  It's so hard to get the ball on the fairway.  I thought I hit a beautiful tee shot and I expected it to be on the fairway and I just came up short there.  It's been getting a bit more bouncy and a little bit harder to hold the balls on the fairways.  I'm happy with it.
Q.  Tremendous crowds and drama around you those past couple of holes.  Can you describe it?
HENRIK STENSON:  Absolutely.  The crowds have been cheering on all day.  It's looking to be a tight finish here, so no, it's been a great day.
Q.  Do you like playing in the midst of that kind of atmosphere?
HENRIK STENSON:  Absolutely.  As I said yesterday, I think it brings out the best in my game and I look forward to doing it in the future.
Q.  It's been a pretty good week for European Tour members, Colin, yourself, Sergio.
HENRIK STENSON:  Absolutely.  I'm very happy with the performance coming off some really good results.  My game felt a little bit better this week, striking wise, tee to green.  That's been sort of lacking a little bit the other weeks even though I've been able to squeeze out the results.  I'm real happy with this and looking forward to two weeks' break now.
Q.  Clearly you like this stage, quite a big tournament this week?
HENRIK STENSON:  Yeah.  As I said, I look forward to being back to playing in these world events and the majors next year.  I like it, definitely.
Q.  Quite the atmosphere out there, isn't it?
HENRIK STENSON:  Absolutely.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT