MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 6, 2018
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How would you assess your round out there today?
HENRIK STENSON: Fairly similar to yesterday, I think. I managed my way around this course in a good way, didn't make too many mistakes, even though I was a little frustrated with the way I hit the ball at times, I didn't feel like I brought the long game that I would like to have out there. I still kept it together and made some good par saves and some good putts. So all in all it's a good score. It's playing pretty vicious out there sometimes when that wind is swirling and I think for me the toughest stretch there was 10 and 12 the wind was all over the place and you think it's into on 12 and I played a little 8‑iron and this thing is just like pumping downwind as soon as the ball's in the air and it landed up in the bushes behind and came back in the bunker. So when you got those things playing alongside, it's pretty hard at times. But I'm still happy with the way I finished and kept it together. 

Q. How difficult is it to stay patient when those conditions are as you said, crazy with the wind and how it's swirling out there?
HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, it's hard just staying patient normally but I was getting a little upset with myself not hitting the shots that I wanted. I guess I gave myself a little kick in the butt there on 14 and that seemed to help because I finished with a couple of birdies coming in. So, yeah, it could be a grind tomorrow, tough weather conditions forecasted and this golf course is not going to give you any more margins just because the weather is bad. So hopefully the game plan we have and the knowledge we have can make us stay in the ball game.

Q. Would weather conditions change that game plan that you've had coming into this week?
HENRIK STENSON: There's a few occasions where I think you might give yourself a bit more margin, but this golf course doesn't really give up too much of that. So you just got to know which side that you have a chance to get up‑and‑down, if you don't get the ball where you want to. If you can get it on that, on the right side of wrong more than the other then you still have a chance to save pars and keep your score going. So, yeah, we'll see what we can do. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT