BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
September 19, 2019
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Got off to a fast start today?  
HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, I made some good putts on 3 for par and then a couple of nice birdie putts in the next couple of holes, so 4-under through eight, that's always a start you like.   
Yeah, tried to just keep on going and gave myself a few chances and made a couple of birdies -- I only made one birdie, and then dropped one on 15 and nice little bonus one for eagle on the last.   
I ended up short right of the green which was a good leave for that pin. I didn't see any problems, really, but the ball seemed to have been sitting down in an old pitchmark, even though I didn't see it. Kind of popped out. Kept it online and it went in.   
 Q.  You've played this tournament when it was played back in May. How is the golf course different in September?  
HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, it's a lot better now it. The greens are probably as good as I've ever seen them. So yeah, good move for the golf course, the condition, to move into a later date, no question. It's always hit and miss in May in Mainland Europe to have perfect conditions.   
Yeah, we're playing a much nicer golf course these days.   
 Q.  You took a bit of a break after you left the PGA TOUR this season. Did you need that just to recharge?  
HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, I think so. That was obviously why I made that decision. I played 18 tournaments up until the WGC in Memphis. Energy levels were quite low. I promised them to play in Sweden, and I didn't fancy going back and forth, back and forth. I took some time off and hopefully we can finish off the year strongly.   
 Q.  Obviously important to get off to a fast start; is that the key, especially on the front nine?  
HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, made a great par putt on the third from about 15 feet with 5-foot of break on it and that really kick started my putting round. Made a 20-footer on the next, 25-footer on the next for birdie and I kept on rolling them in, so 4-under through eight is a great start. Try to keep on going. Didn't give myself that many close birdie chances, had to scramble on a few holes but kept the round together. The only dropped shot was on 15 and nice little bonus eagle at the last. We'll take that.   
 Q.  Always nice to finish with an eagle and improve the score.  
HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, bump-and-run with the putter. I'm walking up and I said to Glenn, "I think it's a putt from there," unless there's something I can't see from here. And when I hit it, I realised it's sitting down in a pitchmark and just kind of pops up, but yeah, judged it beautifully out of the old pitchmark, I guess.   
 Q.  Is this the best you've seen Wentworth course?  
HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, totally. Yeah, definitely it's a big difference, having a whole growing season in summer. The guys have done a great job with the course, and the greens are very nice.   
 Q.  How important is it to start with a low round on a venue you obviously want to do well at?  
HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, I think it's quite crucial, looking back at my career, I don't think I've been having too many wins and too many really good finishes when I haven't started with a decent round or better. It sets up the week nicely and I just hope I can continue with that. I've got a few things that I'm working on in terms of processes, and that's all I can control, and hopefully we keep on scoring well at the same time.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT