THE 148TH OPEN
July 21, 2019
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Talk about how difficult the day was and how it compared to any other day that you've faced.  
HENRIK STENSON: We played plenty of golf in kind of similar toughness over the years.  But it was certainly a very tough day out there.  I said this when I first saw this golf course, If you get winds like this, it's going to be a tricky one because you've got to flight the ball in, you can't run it in like you can on a lot of other links courses.   
A lot of greens have big runoffs, sits a bit higher, and big elevation.  You've got to flight the ball in at the same time you've got to keep it down and into these winds.  It's not an easy golf course when the wind starts pumping.   
I think overall we got lucky with the rain.  We didn't play that many holes in the downpours as I feared or expected.  But the wind got extremely strong here.   
The last couple of holes you're hitting -- you barely touched the ball from 170 yards downwind with a sand iron and then you can't get a 2-iron anywhere when you turn around.  So it's tough enough.   
 Q.  Is it hard to explain to people how difficult it is and how well you might be playing and still not be able to score?  
HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, that wasn't the case for me today.  I had a rough start, dropped a couple of shots, three shots on the first six, which is not ideal when you need to be around par at least on those ones.  Then I had a pretty good stretch of fighting in the middle of the round and had a really bad finish here and made four bogeys in the last five holes.  That stinks.   
Oh, well, there's a lot of guys that had a tough one out there.  We just have to recharge for the next one.   
 Q.  What did you hit at 17 there?  
HENRIK STENSON: I hit a 6-iron from 145 yards, maybe with a 6-iron.   
The cap blew off from one of the guys who was scoring with us.  His gap flew away and the glasses, and I backed off, I went in and obviously leaned on it way too much and shanked it straight into the crowd on the right.   
So, yeah, that was not the way we wanted to finish.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT