ABU DHABI HSBC CHAMPIONSHIP
January 22, 2017
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How do you go away from this, mixed feelings, or a sense of accomplishment?
HENRIK STENSON: It feels a little bit of mixed feelings.  I think I played good enough to potentially go all the way this week, but at the same time, I played 18 holes in six weeks and that was the Pro-Am here on Wednesday.  You're going to make one or two little mistakes when you haven't played much golf, and given that, I'm really happy with the state of my game and managing to be up in contention.
Q. I understand you take the week off before Dubai.  What are you going to work on?
HENRIK STENSON: First I'm going to be pretty flat in a sun bed for a few days.  Ten-year anniversary trip with the wife, and then I'm practicing in Dubai Friday, Saturday, Sunday before the Dubai week.
It's going to be a bit of everything, really.  I'm quite pleased with most parts of my game, and got a long year ahead.  It's just a work-in-progress.  Nothing specific, really.
Q. Not going to see you on our side of the ocean until México, but where is the No. 1 ranking for you in terms of goals, and how do you schedule to try and get up from fourth to first?
HENRIK STENSON: I think World Rankings, that always takes care of itself.  The better you play, the more points you're going to accumulate, and the higher you're going to go.  My focus might not have always been on being world No. 1.  I think if I were to challenge for that position, that's going to be a consequence of me playing some really strong golf.
I'm just going to try and come in well rested, well trained and well prepared for the majors this year.  That's my goal and my plan, and I'm sticking to that one.
Q. What's your assessment of a final round 69?
HENRIK STENSON: I feel like I left some shots, especially coming in.  Last two holes yesterday, I felt like I left two easy shots out there which was frustrating.  And then again today I think I played well enough to win.  I had my chances.  Had a few breaks against me and played a pretty solid round of golf; that could have been a lot better.
Overall I'm happy with my game.  I haven't practiced much and I haven't played any golf virtually on the golf course for six weeks.  Given that, you're going to make one or two mistakes, and I think I did that, and overall, I'm very happy with the week.
Q. Is there any point in that final round where you thought you could get it done?
HENRIK STENSON: When I birdied 5 and 7, I felt like I was closing in a little bit.  Then just didn't happen on the two par 5s and I bogeyed 9.  So that three-hole stretch, I feel like I dropped at least two shots compared to most other guys.
I was still cracking on here towards the finish, and a bogey on 17 really killed that momentum, if I would have parred or birdied 17 and then given myself a look for eagle on the last, you never know what might happen.
Overall, I think my game progressed as the week went on.  It's just that the scores didn't quite catch up on the same way.  I was fairly lucky to shoot 64 with the game I had the first day, but I guess it all evens out in the long run.
I needed to, you want to be a couple ahead if you're posting a number, and you can't be behind when you're in the clubhouse here.  So yeah, you never know.  A birdie on 17 and an eagle on 18, it might have looked different.
Q. Ultimately, another decent performance in the desert.
HENRIK STENSON: Yeah, absolutely.  I had a couple of showings here in the previous years that wasn't too good, so at least now last year I finished third and this year should be a Top-10.  It's a good start to the year, and like I said, I'm happy with the way I played and given how little I've practiced, I'll take it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT