PAC-12 WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 7, 2019
JR Payne
Kennedy Leonard
Alexis Robinson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Arizona State - 66, Colorado - 49
COACH PAYNE: Well, I'm just really proud of our team's fight tonight.  I said today was sort of the epitome of our entire season, sort of being the underdog and undermanned and facing adversity, but just continuing to never back down, never stop fighting, staying together, and playing really hard for each other.
I thought we showed tremendous toughness and togetherness today, so I'm very proud of our team today.
Q. You had a great third quarter, JR; what happened in the fourth?  You had Alexis making some great shots, back-to-back shots.  What was going on?
COACH PAYNE: Well, the fourth quarter I think we saw sort of a reversal on both ends of the floor.  We gave up a handful of threes.  In the fourth quarter, these guys were playing a lot of minutes, and I think fatigue set in a little bit.  But we had a hard time getting stops in the fourth, and then that transferred into we weren't able to go downhill and transition as effectively in the fourth as we did in the third, simply because we weren't getting stops, so it sort of snowballed the wrong way for both offense and defense.
Q. Talking about that third quarter, what was working that got you guys within a point, and sort of first half offense seemed to be a problem, but the third quarter you really got going.
COACH PAYNE: Well, we were creating offense with our defense.  So we were forcing turnovers.  We had really changed the tempo of the game in the third quarter with our defense.  And so when we were unable -- again, like I said, to get stops, we kind of slowed ourselves down, I think, in the fourth.  But it was just sort of toughness defensively and getting stops.
Q. Lex, talk about your third quarter.  You're coming off the bench at the end of the season, a different role for you.  What started clicking for you and how did you kind of adapt into that?
ALEXIS ROBINSON: I just kind of did -- I was just trying to do whatever it took to win.  I know I could shoot it, so that's what I did.  I tried to create open shots for myself and create open shots for my teammates.
Q. Kennedy, how did you see the second half for you guys kind of evolve?  You got it back to three at the end of that quarter.  What was the feeling in the huddle, and how did you as a leader kind of see the team?
KENNEDY LEONARD: I mean, I think we just tried to play like faster in transition, get the ball up the court, and Lex was hitting shots, so you don't really have to do much, just give her the ball and let her hit shots.
I think we were all just ready to get a lead and get the win, but like Coach said, the fourth quarter kind flipped a bit on us, but for us to play the way we did in the third and bring it within one or two I think says a lot about us this year.
Q. It's been incredible watching both of you grow over your past four seasons.  You got to go to Italy this off-season.  Just wondering if possible so quickly after this game if you can reflect and share some of your favorite memories about being a Colorado Buffalo?
KENNEDY LEONARD: My favorite memory of being a Colorado Buffalo, I think just the people I've met.  I read an article the other day that said we went through like 28 different teammates, which is kind of a lot of people, but just like the relationships that I've made with all of them and the kind of things we've been through together, even this year everything we've been hit with, I think being able to overcome that and remember that and the people you did it with and overcame it with, I think that's the biggest thing for me.
ALEXIS ROBINSON: You mentioned Italy, and that's just one of the best trips I've ever had in my life, just spending it with my sisters and all that, it was really awesome.
Q. Coach, can you talk a little bit about the seniors and what they've brought to this program?
COACH PAYNE: Yeah, the legacy of these two will be felt for many years to come, for a variety of reasons for both of them.  I thought it was -- I told the team, I thought it was very appropriate that we were handed t-shirts for warm-ups today that we didn't know were coming that said "Family," because a lot of people talk about that, but we really are a family.
The amount of obstacles and things that just the three of us have been through together in our three years is pretty remarkable, and these two have shown what it means to be a Buff as far as loyalty, not just to the program but to each other, to their teammates, to the brand of Colorado, and their work ethic.
These are two of the hardest-working players that have ever worn a jersey, and so they've had that impact on their younger teammates.  They've had impact on teammates that haven't even committed to Colorado yet because they'll be felt for many years to come.
So I love these two the same way I love my own children.  I know that they're going to do really, really great things moving forward.
Q. You both made the conscious decision when she came in your sophomore year to stay and play for her.  Lex and Ken, what have you learned playing for JR and getting to know her as a member of your family?
ALEXIS ROBINSON: I've definitely learned that Coach J is one of the most caring, like -- she's definitely like -- she's been really big in my life, for real.
KENNEDY LEONARD: Yeah, I mean, I'd say the exact same.  I'd run through a wall for Coach J, run through a wall for -- I'd do anything for her, and I think we all would, and I don't regret my decision to stay for a second, and I know Lex doesn't, either.
It hasn't been the easiest road, but easy times don't make the greatest people; tough times do.  If anything comes out of this, I know we're all going to be pretty tough people.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT