BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS
October 26, 2015
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Questions for our WTA Finals ambassador, Li Na.   
   
 Q. There have been quite a few players withdrawing from tournaments during the tail end of the season. Do you think the current WTA season is too long?   
NA LI: No. At least only 11 month. It's not 12 month, you know. Still have one month off. But I think also this reason why women's tennis is the first sport all over the world, because all the player have to produce concentration.   
It's not only one tournament. Have to focus for 11 month. Yeah, this also very good challenge for the self.   
   
 Q. Can you talk about just coming back here I think a year later from retiring and where you feel like you're at in your life now being an officially retired player and mother now?   
NA LI: Yeah, time was running so fast. After one year I got change a lot. Also I got a lot of experience. Yeah, four and a half month ago I will be a mom. I always feeling be a mom is much tougher when I was play.  
When I was play I can totally control schedule, timing, but be a mom it's of tough to control for the baby. Yeah. (Smiling.)  
   
 Q. Question back to the tour again. Lots of injuries on players. Do you think it's more a case of players traveling further and to more tournaments or the game changing?  
NA LI: You can see on the tour some players injury, some players not. I always have to‑‑ honestly, I was feeling you have to totally control yourself. You have understand said about yourself.   
You have to make smart to make schedule. I think this is a package for professional tennis athlete.   
   
 Q. I was wondering how much tennis have you been watching, and if you have been watching, who has impressed you the most this year? Some of the up and comers or maybe some of the new names that have qualified for the WTA Finals?  
NA LI: I saw a lot of tennis matches, and now even more enjoy to watch it.   
It's very tough to say who can win this tournament, because this last tournament also only couple, eight, can play in here.   
Everyone was doing amazing job for all of the year, so I was feeling everyone can have the chance to win this tournament.   
   
 Q. Just throughout the year has anyone impressed you or stood out for you?  
NA LI: I think I would like to pick up Muguruza. Yeah, I think because she play more aggressive and is young and talented. Yeah.   
   
 Q. I'm wondering if when you had the baby if any of the players reached out to you, sent you any baby gifts, anything like that?   
NA LI: Yeah, after I never got any gift, you know. Yeah. Also the gift is for my baby. So, yeah.   
I understand. Yep.   
   
 Q. I'm wondering about for the next Asian star ‑ we a Naomi Osaka yesterday win the Rising Stars ‑ what do you think the pressure is going to be like for the next big Asian player to follow in your footsteps, or do you think it's going to be a whole new path for her?   
NA LI: Sorry. I put level so high, right? (Smiling.) No, joke.  
I think Future Stars very good, because I remember when I was like 14, 16 I didn't have chance to meet like top player. When the future star coming, they bring more Asia young players. They can come to Singapore to see the top player. Can see the great match.   
I think very good chance. They can like face to face to see. It's not other athlete. Like on the court, off the court, how is the tennis life.  
Of course when I was retire this one year, I do a lot for the charity. I saw a lot of tournament in China in juniors. There have like two, three very good player, but they need time, more experience on the tour.   
   
 Q. You've mentioned before you want to help the younger players. Speaking of younger players, I know you have your hands full with the baby, but are you looking into maybe coaching one day?   
NA LI: Yeah, of course. I would like to coaching but, not for professional. Like for beginning, you know. To teach them to make them interesting about this sport.   
   
 Q. Why not for professionals?  
NA LI: No, I would like to enjoy my family, of course. Also, I don't think women should traveling so much. (Smiling.)  
   
 Q. Through your interactions with the Future Stars and the younger players at the tournaments that you visited, what do you think is the most important things that you would like to pass along to those young players, especially from Asia?  
NA LI: I would like to send a message to all the young players. Of course everyone will have the goal and it's tough, but keep your concentration and don't give up too early and believe you can doing well. Yeah.   
   
 Q. We have a number of players who are big stars from countries that don't have any other stars, like Simona Halep. You did it as well, and there is a lot of pressure that comes with that. I'm wondering what advice you might have for those sort of players who have to deal with maybe so much attention, the media and everything back home, what advice you might have in terms of how to handle that sort of pressure from the home crowd, from the fans and the media at home?  
NA LI: Maybe everyone is different, but I like the pressure. I feeling the pressure can push me going forward, you know. So of course this is part of the tennis life. Have to do it.   
Especially right now, the social media, like fans, they didn't want to know only on the court. Of course they would like to know how is this personality off the court. This is job. You have to do.   
   
 Q. You're someone who experienced success towards the end of your career. Flavia Pennetta won the US Open. What was your reaction when you saw that?   
NA LI: Yeah, I saw her in Singapore. We talk like first meet. I was just ask her, Do you change your mind? She was like, No. Never. Done. I was like, Yeah, I understand. We are same age. I know how tough on the tour, like over ten years.   
You know, tennis is job. It's part of life. You have tofind the ‑‑ how you say‑‑ find the real life or family. For this age, I think she will doing great choice. Yeah.   
   
 Q. (Through translation.) You look very pretty. Very relaxed. So what's the key?   
NA LI: Actually I'm more relaxed, and I was pretty as well. Just you know was on court so was my competition face. Now you see me off court face.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT