LONDON 2012 OLYMPIC GAMES
July 28, 2012
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 D. HANTUCHOVA/N. Li
  6‑2, 3‑6, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Can you start by sharing your thoughts on today's match.   
NA LI:   I mean, of course always tough to play against the friend on the court.   
But I think today both play very well on the court.   So, yeah.   I mean, I try to fighting a lot on the court.   But, I mean, yeah, I still have to say she's play well today.   
   
 Q.   She said when you walked onto the court, it felt like you were going to play doubles.   She found it hard to play against you.   Did you find it the same way?  
NA LI:   Yeah, of course, the same way.   We talk all the time on the court.   We say, Okay, now we have to focus, now we are against each other, not play doubles anymore.   
It's really, really tough because, I mean, out of the court we are good friend.   But if you stay on the court, I mean, you have to fight.   But I think is little bit tough for both, yeah.   
   
 Q.   She started very strongly in the first set.   Was there anything you changed going into the second set that got you back into the match?   
NA LI:   I think I was play well the beginning the first set, like first two games, yeah.   
After, I know what happened.   I mean, I just follow what she is doing.   I think also she was change little bit, like I was have a lot mistake.   So I was, yeah, just like give the one set for her.   
And, yeah, I mean, how do you say, yeah, nothing to say.   
   
 Q.   Knowing how important the Olympics are to the Chinese people, is losing here more devastating and disappointing than at a Grand Slam or any other big tournament?   
NA LI:   I don't think Olympic only important for Chinese people, otherwise we call China Open, not Olympics anymore.   
So, of course, every country, every sport, every athlete was fighting a lot for their country.   So, yeah, of course, I mean, I was sad I lose here in the first round.   I mean, I know we are professional player.   But Olympic still is different.   Like four year, one time.   
Yeah, I mean, I try a lot today, but didn't work, so...   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT