WIMBLEDON
June 23, 2012
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You're going into it full of confidence, full of the buzz, full of Wimbledon?  
NA LI:   I mean, always looking forward for the Wimbledon.   And, yeah, I like to say last year I got a lot of confidence come to Wimbledon but I didn't doing well, so I wish this year I can doing good.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel there's anything that's been happening over the last year that's going to make the difference for you at Wimbledon this year?  
NA LI:   I was this year feeling more free, because last year I was come in I just feeling always someone just follow me and I couldn't doing so many things for my private time.   So now just back to normal.   
   
 Q.   This year you're much more your own person?  
NA LI:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   How will that help you game?  
NA LI:   If you feeling always someone looking you, security next to you, you didn't feeling very comfortable.   
Now I can do much practice as I can.   I can concentrate on the court.   
   
 Q.   We also have the Olympics coming up.   
NA LI:   Yeah.   I mean, right now I still play tournament for Wimbledon.   Olympic will coming after Wimbledon, so right now I focus on Wimbledon.   
   
 Q.   What was the first memory you had of Wimbledon?  
NA LI:   I mean, the weather, of course (laughter).   Every year is the same.   We have like wait.   Some days with rains is coming we have to wait, and sometimes we have to come to the court straightaway.   
And strawberries and cream.   
   
 Q.   What is special about that for you?  
NA LI:   I have to eat, otherwise I miss something.   
   
 Q.   Is it difficult for you to handle the rain delays and weather?   What do you do when you have to wait?  
NA LI:   It's not tough.   I have been here so many years, so you have to used to.   For everyone is the same, yeah.   
   
 Q.   What would it mean to you if you could win Wimbledon?  
NA LI:   That's mean after my agent has to do more good job (laughter).   I still remember after French, I mean, Max couldn't sleep for, how long, two weeks, a month.   So I think is tough for him.   
   
 Q.   Have you had an opportunity to look at the draw?  
NA LI:   I never think about that.   I mean, for tennis always you have challenge not only of opponent.   You have challenge for yourself.   
Also I really didn't want to see how is the draw.   I wish just look round by round.   
   
 Q.   When you look back at last year, you said it was disappointing.   Do you look back and say you didn't play well or bad luck?  
NA LI:   You really couldn't always think about what you doing the last year, because right now one year already.   Time can change everything.   
I was come back Wimbledon again, so I just looking forward for this year.   Yeah.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT