BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 14, 2012
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. KERBER/N. Li
  6‑4, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   It looked like it was a little bit difficult for you to find your rhythm or your timing today on court?
NA LI:   Yeah, and also I think the lefty was much different than the right hand.   So, I mean, even the serve, and also she hit the ball like the different‑‑ I mean, it's totally different way. 
And also today I think she was play pretty good.   I mean, every time I have breakpoint just hit a winner, so what I can do? 
Yeah, so I think today maybe‑‑ I don't know what say.   I mean, it's really tough to find my rhythm on the court, yeah. 

Q.   You played most of your matches this week during the day, and then tonight you were on Stadium Court.   Did that have any effect at all?   Maybe the ball is bouncing different or moving... 
NA LI:   No, I think it was okay because it's the same for both players.   So if you lose the match, I didn't want to find something for that.   So I would like to say, yeah, today she was play better than me on court.

Q.   You held serve once in the second set.   Did you feel like your serve just wasn't there today?
NA LI:   I don't know.   I mean, I really think today the serve didn't work.
I mean, normally like you can see the three matches before.   I think I can win another point from the serve, but today it's another story, yeah. 

Q.   Were you surprised at all how well she moved?   She played pretty good defense. 
NA LI:   Yeah, it is.   Last time I was play her, yeah.   But it's two years ago, so two years can change many things.
Yeah, today I was like a little bit surprised.   I mean, she has unbelievable defense.   Sometimes I think I can win the point.   But, I mean, she just tried to back the ball all the time.   So, yeah, it was a little bit tough.

Q.   In that sixth game of the second set, was that the turning point there?   I think you got up 40‑ Love, and then she came back. 
NA LI:   Yeah, yeah. 

Q.   Some game points there, and then she won. 
NA LI:   But what I can say? 
I mean, these three point‑‑ I mean, it's not for‑‑ I didn't hit like bad shot.   So all the time she's play unbelievable, like deep, and I don't think, I mean, yeah, I have the chance to win the game.
But it's, how do you say, after that game of course she has a lot of confidence on the court.   I mean, she was Love‑40 and then come back to deuce.   Advantage for me, and then she come back and finally she win the game.
Yeah, I would like to say today is very tough for me. 

Q.   Obviously disappointing loss today.   But a good week for you or a bad week?   What do you think? 
NA LI:   I mean, not bad.   I mean, I'm not losing the first round here, so, yeah, I was happy I still can come to the quarterfinal.
But I think I still have to back to the court to working hard, and I try in Miami, as well.

Q.   How do you see her chances to win the whole tournament over here?   Kerber? 
NA LI:   I mean, anyone can win the tournament if she's come to semis, yeah. 

Q.   Do you feel like your confidence level, after getting some match wins here, do you feel like it's higher now than it was maybe after the Australian Open, like after you lost there?
NA LI:   Yeah.   I mean, after the Australian Open I was play one tournament in Paris, but I was injured for the back.
So this is the first time tournament after injury.   Doesn't matter who is opponent I still win three matches, right?   Still not bad. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT