BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 11, 2012
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. LI/J. Zheng
  6‑1, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You hadn't played her in a long time, but you're from the same country and obviously know each other very well.   What was it like out there tennis‑wise?  
NA LI:   I mean, always tough to play same country player because we know a lot, you know.   So before, like, we stay in the national teams so we practice every day and traveling all of the time, so it's very tough.  
But, yeah, I was so happy because first time I beat her.   Yeah, last meeting, I mean, it was six years ago, so, you know, six years can change many thing.  
   
 Q.   Are you happy with where your game is now this year?  
NA LI:   I think much better than last year.   Yeah, I mean, I was win first match in here.   I was like so surprised because first match for three years.   
Yeah, I was happy now what I'm doing now on the court.  
   
 Q.   Have you heard at all about some of the sickness and illness that's going around in the locker room right now, or have you been seeing other players getting ill or sick?  
NA LI:   No.   I mean, if I was practice 2:30 I will come locker room 2:00, so just put something in, stuff in the locker, and I always go out.  
I mean, if you listen too much in the locker room, maybe change my mind (smiling).  
   
 Q.   There has been no talk in the locker room?  
NA LI:   No.   Of course if you see a friend say hello, something.   I'm not somebody I come to locker room to listen what they, what they say.   I think it is not good for me.  
Only talk to friend in the locker room.   Just like say hello, well done, like good luck.   So, yeah.   
   
 Q.   How far ahead do you look in the draw in this tournament?   Do you know who is in your quarter or in your half?  
NA LI:   I have to tell you truth, I really didn't see the draw.   I even didn't know who is the next round.  
   
 Q.   Her question referred to a virus that apparently is going around among the players.   Do you know a virus?  
NA LI:   No, I didn't know.  
   
 Q.   It's an illness.   I think she was asking if you were aware of that, that many of the players are becoming ill.   
NA LI:   I mean...   
THE MODERATOR:   No, she wasn't aware of it.   
NA LI:   I mean, if I was healthy, I just come play on the court.   I mean...   
   
 Q.   What do you think was the difference in playing her today that allowed you to dominate?  
NA LI:   You mean Zheng Jie?   
   
 Q.   Yeah.   
NA LI:   I think that I was show how comfortable I was on the court.   I mean, yeah, because I never beat her so nothing to lose.   Otherwise I just lose again.   
So five times in a row not different than in four times in a row, so...   
   
 Q.   You lost to her four times in a row?  
NA LI:   I think so.   I never beat her‑‑ yeah, they say yes.  
   
 Q.   For you, what was the different, then?  
NA LI:   I mean, for me, of course is tough, but for me, I mean, before the match, yeah, whole team just say, You don't need to think too much win or lose.   
I mean, the match you can maybe just kind of change like two second turn around.   So if you think too much, maybe you couldn't really to play on the court.   So you just play; doesn't matter.  
   
 Q.   Tennis is such a mental game.   
NA LI:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   You're out there, you're all by yourself.   You have had some great, great wins and sometimes not so good.   What goes through your mind?   What are you telling yourself when you're out on the tennis court?  
NA LI:   I mean, you just come to try your best, like of course tennis was tough like sometimes you can win easy match, but sometimes maybe only one or two point can change the match, turn around.  
Yeah, so, I mean, I always like to say if something you couldn't change, you have to used to or to be even more better in next point.  
   
 Q.   And when was the best you were mentally on a tennis court, and when was the worst when it was awful?  
NA LI:   Worse I think in last half year.   (Laughter.)  
I think too much.   Because after win the first Grand Slam, I think, Oh, I couldn't lose first round.   I couldn't lose first round.   But always lose first round.  
So, I mean, I was happy beginning of the year, right now.   I mean, I was turn around for my mind.   Of course, I mean, tennis is a personal sport.   I have team around with me.   
But if I come to the court nobody can help me.   Only myself.   
   
 Q.   You have always been sort of a free spirit.   You have always said what you felt and you're honest, whereas someone like Yao Ming who is very tied to the basketball federation is careful about what he says.   What is it about you, do you think, that makes you so honest and open?   
NA LI:   How you think about me?   
   
 Q.   I'm saying that in a positive way.   
NA LI:   So, yeah, so I continue to positive, positive way.   I mean, for me, I know so many people think, Oh, she's maybe next to Yao Ming or something.   
But I think for me I'm only tennis athlete.   I'm not here for the country.   I just play my tennis.   I just doing my job to try the best.  
   
 Q.   Sometimes do you get criticized for that?  
NA LI:   What that mean?   (Through translation.)   
If sometimes I lie‑‑ I mean, I was feeling uncomfortable, and also I always believe if you lie one time you have to use 10 time to recover this one lie.   
So I didn't want do that.   I know if I say real so many people hate me, but doesn't matter.   I'm happy.   (Smiling).  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT