AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 22, 2012
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







K. CLIJSTERS/N. Li
  4‑6, 7‑6, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Bad luck.   How did Kim's injury affect you?   How did it affect your game?
NA LI:   I mean, I reallydon't say that.   Finally, she win the match, so... 

Q.   Can you say anything about how you played at the end?   Because you nearly came back in the third set.   You got very close. 
NA LI:   Doesn't matter close or far away.   In the end I lost the match.   This is only one thing. 
I mean, I think I was pretty not bad today.   Just unlucky, yeah. 

Q.   Can you talk about the tiebreak?   On the fourth match point she lobbed you, but you didn't really try and run for it, even though I think you may have been able to get to it. 
NA LI:   During the time, of course was nervous.   If you nervous you could not think too much, right?   Yeah.

Q.   Do you believe in the year of dragon?   Do you think the year of dragon will be more auspicious for you? 
NA LI:   Year of dragon start tomorrow, not today.

Q.   Last year you had the same with Wickmayer in Dubai. 
NA LI:   Yep.

Q.   Is there an explanation for it?
NA LI:   I don't think so.   Different opponent and also different experience. 

Q.   Is it a matter of nerves?
NA LI:   I just tennis athlete.   I don't thinkit's ‑‑ I mean, if change one person on the court, I don't think she's one nervous. 
Everyone was still pretty nervous.   That's just normal.   I'm not special. 

Q.   Were you affected by the heat today?
NA LI:   I mean, I have to be used to.   Yeah, if I didn't like I couldn't tell the tournament I didn't want to play.   I have to.   So I have to used that.

Q.   In the tiebreak, at one point you seemed to take your finger to your mouth towards the crowd.   Was someone in the crowd bothering during the tiebreak?
NA LI:   Oh, yeah?   I do that? 

Q.   I thought I saw you on television do that. 
NA LI:   I don't know.   I couldn't remember. 

Q.   What happened at the beginning of the third set?   Was the loss of the tiebreaker and the match points still in your head?
NA LI:   No, I mean, if over, is over.   You couldn't think about always whether you do it before.   You have to think about what you have to do. 
I mean, of course after lose after the tiebreak I was think ‑‑ I was a little bit, how do you say, worrying about myself because I have four match points, but I didn't take it.   I mean, yeah. 

Q.   Have you ever had a match where you had four match points that you didn't take?
NA LI:   Yeah, like he say.   Last year in Dubai against Wickmayer.   Yeah. 

Q.   Against Kim last year in Sydney, you turned 0‑5, at 5‑Love down in the first set, you turned it around.   Is it easier to play against an opponent when you're down, when you have nothing to lose anymore?
NA LI:   I didn't really like play the way like that.   I really preferred 5‑Love up.   I mean, nobody prefer 5‑Love down to try to come back.

Q.   This the first Grand Slam of the year.   The whole year is in front of you.   Would you like to change your game against a particular opponent like Kim, or do you think you'll continue with the same strategy and same type of game?
NA LI:   So what do you think?   You think I should change?   I mean, I played this way for 20 years already.   I couldn't change for next two months. 

Q.   What do you think you'll take away from the match today going forward?
NA LI:   I was think I was play okay today.   I mean, nothing worried about like technique. 
So, yeah, like what Kim say.   Maybe 6‑2 up in the tiebreak I was a little bit shocking.   Yeah. 

Q.   Are you going to head back to China?
NA LI:   I don't know yet. 

Q.   Did you think Kim was at her best level after a couple of games coming back after her injury?
NA LI:   I mean, the tennis was amazing sport.   Like between the opponent to have like, how you say (translated from Chinese off microphone.) 
Like if I go forward before, of course opponent have to go back a little bit.   I mean, if she go forward a little I have to go back. 
So I couldn't‑‑ I mean, what I can say is today she play better than me.   Yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT