AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 16, 2012
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. LI/K. Pervak
  6‑3, 6‑1


THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How hard were the conditions out there today? 
NA LI:   I was feeling end of the first set really heat on the court.   Also I was feeling no air.   I couldn't breathe.   Like I was feeling like, What's going on? 
So, yeah, but so lucky I win so easy in the second set.   So, yeah. 

Q.   In the second set, did you sense she was struggling a bit with the heat?
NA LI:   No.   No, I mean, I really couldn't see that because actually she running fast on the court.   I couldn't see another thing. 

Q.   What were you most happy with in regards to your game today?
NA LI:   I mean, right now I was feeling more, yeah, trust myself I can win the match.   Yeah, more believe myself. 

Q.   How much confidence did you bring in from your win last week? 
NA LI:   I mean, this week was another story.   So nothing about how I was doing in Perth, how I was doing in Sydney. 
This tournament is even bigger, more important.   Yeah, for me, just one thing.   Round by round, step by step. 

Q.   Do you have any extra confidence being a returning finalist?   Do you feel as good this year as you did last year playing in the tournament? 
NA LI:   I mean, I was wish I can doing better in this year, but I still like far away even now. 
So I was happy what I'm doing in Hopman Cup and Sydney.   Yeah, I think I just continue. 

Q.   Was there anything last year off the court that you did that you're trying to replicate here to have similar success?
NA LI:   No.   I mean, I just do what I want to do.   I'm not if first day I do this thing, I have to do every day.   I'm not crazy about that. 

Q.   No superstition? 
NA LI:   No superstition. 

Q.   Did you have some trouble concentrating today at certain points in the match?   I know you had some breakpoints that you did not win.   Did you have some troubles with concentration at all?
NA LI:   You mean today? 

Q.   Today. 
NA LI:   No.   I mean, today, first match point I got to win the match, so... 
Maybe was a little bit tough in the first set, but after first set I was feeling like more easy in the second set, yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT