AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 15, 2012
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You put yourself through an intense training regime in the off‑season.   Tell us a bit about that.   
NA LI:   Yeah, I was training very hard in off the season.   I was staying for one month, like every day five to six hours because I know after French Open I didn't doing well.   
So, yes, I need strong body to prepare for this year, yup.  
   
 Q.   What do you think your success particularly last year is doing to the sport in China?   How much more popular is it becoming?  
NA LI:   How big I didn't know.   But right now I know the tennis in China getting better and better, bigger and bigger.   
You should ask them (referring to the Chinese press).   They're from China.   They know everything.   
   
 Q.   You started last year very strongly with Sydney, coming here and having unprecedented success.   Is that something you think you can do again this year, do better than that?  
NA LI:   I wish I could do the same or even better.   Not just beginning of year.   I was happy what I'm doing right now.   Yeah, I was feeling I was more stronger, more tough, yeah.   Not like last half year, just lose all the matches, doesn't matter who is opponent.   
Yeah, I was happy what I was doing right now.   
   
 Q.   Do you think the slump you had at the end of last year was because you achieved so much in a short period of time that you needed to have a mental break from the game?  
NA LI:   You know, the tennis is tough sport.   We traveling all over the world.   Also, I think we have the longest season ever.   Every year have 10, 11 month for tournaments.   
I don't know for other player, but I need all the time to recover off the tennis court.   I was take like one week off, no fitness, no tennis.   I just really need relax.   After that, I was feeling much, much better, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Apart from winning the French Open last year, what has been the biggest change in your life in the past 12 months?   
NA LI:   I would like to say change a lot for my life, really.   I mean, right now doesn't matter where I been in tournament, so many fans know who I am.   Not like before.   
Yeah, of course, agent doing good job.   More sponsor coming (laughter).   Also more people focus on me.   So, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel there's more pressure now with so much more focus on you?  
NA LI:   Right now I didn't feel any pressure.   But before, yeah, like end of the last year I was feel pressure.   Not from my team, but from outside.   Also last half year I didn't do well the tennis court.   
Of course, I was feeling a little bit pressure.   But now I have experience already.   This half year, I learned a lot.   I know what I should doing on the tennis court.   
   
 Q.   Your body is feeling stronger now, thanks to the training you've been doing?  
NA LI:   Yeah, I was feeling like healthy, strong.  
   
 Q.   What has changed in the last few weeks since you came to Australia to give you your confidence back?  
NA LI:   I win six match in a row.   Like last second half year, I think I couldn't win three matches in a row.   I mean, always like easy to lose the match.   Also I feel I losing all the confidence on the court.   
For me, I'm not hungry anymore on the court like last half of year.   But now I feeling hungry again.   I still like tough and I'm back.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT