APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 13, 2012
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 V. AZARENKA/N. Li
  6‑2, 1‑6, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Is there on an old Chinese saying, If you lose in Sydney you must win in Melbourne?  
NA LI:   I wish.   (Laughter.)   I mean, this is really good wish.  
   
 Q.   Where did it go wrong tonight, where in the last set?  
NA LI:   I don't think it was something wrong.   I think it was very good match in the final.   I think both player was show the best tennis on the court.   I don't think is nothing wrong, yeah.  
   
 Q.   Perth and here you had a lot of matches.   Are you in as good a state as you can be going to Melbourne?  
NA LI:   Yeah, I mean, now I was feeling more confidence was back, so, yeah.   Now what I should worry?   Nothing to worry.   
I think now it's much, much better than last half year, right?   Still like step by step, yeah.  
   
 Q.   And for this week, does it feel like it's wide open, the Australian Open, that there are a lot of real contendere for it down there?  
NA LI:   I mean, Melbourne was another tournament, so if I doing well here, doesn't mean anything I can do well in Melbourne.  
So still have to like rung by rung.   Yeah, final last year, so I think should be okay.   I can do, yeah.   (Smiling.)  
   
 Q.   In that last game there was someone who yelled out a couple times and it certainly bothered you.   Did you think about asking for a let at that point?   It was a weird exchange there.   
NA LI:   I think if they come to see more tennis they will know.   (Smiling.)   I mean, this thing I couldn't change.   Only one thing is that I only can change for myself.   I don't have to listen what they say.   I have to focus my tennis.  
   
 Q.   It happened to you in Melbourne, too.   Do you think that eventually they will stop yelling?  
NA LI:   May be they think I'm stupid so they coach me.   (Laughter.)   But I would like to say I'm not stupid.   I can play very good tennis.  
So, yeah, I know the fans just really want I can win the match.   Sometimes for me I think that they are so, so warm, you know, so, yeah.   
   
 Q.   What did your coach say after the first set?   
NA LI:   Yeah, he say likeI was so far away stay in the baseline, so give her a lot of chance, yeah.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT