APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 12, 2012
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. LI/P. Kvitova
  1‑6, 7‑5, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Can you tell us how that game went?   Seemed to kind of switch around in the second set at some point.   
LI NA:   Yeah, I know.   I mean, I even didn't know what happened.   I just lose first set, so that's why I was call the coaching come.   We just want to find the deal what we can do on the court.  
So, yeah, the coach was coming, say, Look‑‑ I mean, she was play unbelievable.   For me, I just was feeling she play ball more flat, more deep.   I mean, I have no chance to hit the ball like, how you say, deep back.  
So, I mean, yeah.   So after first set I was call the coach come, and he say, If you play like this, you lose the match like easy.   Like maybe after 50 minute we can go to the airport.  
So I mean, this is really.   I'm not joke.   So, yeah, he say, Now you have to believe yourself can doing better now.   So you just try to play more like more deep; try to the best tennis, yeah.   
   
 Q.   After all the ups and downs at the French Open, can we say you're back now?  
LI NA:   Yeah, I'm back.   (Laughter.)   Yeah, I think now I was feeling more stronger.   And not only for the body, also in mind.   I was feeling I believe in myself I can doing better.   
   
 Q.   How much audience support played a role in your win?   
LI NA:   I mean, I really didn't know the number.   This is tough for me.   I couldn't to count everyone.  
But I think ‑‑  
   
 Q.   There was quite strong support.   
LI NA:   Yeah, of course.   Thanks to the fan who support me.   If no fans, what I should doing on the court?   I mean, nobody watch me.  
   
 Q.   Were you aware of all the support in the arena for you, or do you block that stuff out?   
LI NA:   I mean, I would like, how do you say, more fans to see me, you know.   I mean, I know sometimes if I doing not good some fans will leave me.   (Smiling.)   This is normal.  
But, yeah, what I should do is I should doing much better, not like last half year what I'm doing.   
So, yeah.   
   
 Q.   A lot of talk this week has been about Caroline and Petra and the race for No. 1.   Is that something you would like to maybe join them this year and get close enough to get that No. 1 ranking yourself?   
LI NA:   I mean, this one, I really heard about in press conference.   But in the locker room, on the court, I think all the player never say, Oh, how many point I should be No. 1?   Like, yeah, I think everyone just focus on the tennis.  
   
 Q.   But you, yourself, is that something you think you can lift that extra level to be in competition for No. 1 this year?  
LI NA:   I just like every year want to do better than last year.   For me, the number is not so important, yeah.  
   
 Q.   She's the WTA champion from Istanbul.   That's a great win for you.   It must be the perfect time to go to Melbourne with a scalp like Kvitova in your bag.   
LI NA:   Yeah, because we play same tournament in Perth.   We tried practice together, but we always have like different time to play the match.   We say, Okay, maybe we should practice in Sydney.  
Just before we come to the court, we say, Now at least we can practice.   Yeah, I think this is big win for me.   I mean, she just win Istanbul, and I think she win Hopman Cup also.  
   
 Q.   Yeah, and Fed Cup.   
LI NA:   Yeah.   So I think I would like to say, yeah, I'm happy what I was doing on the court today.  
   
 Q.   The way she played in the first set, did it feel like she was the best player in the world?   
LI NA:   I mean, if she always play like this, what I should do?   Give up?   I couldn't do anything.   
So, yeah, I mean, for me I was feeling like first set she was play more flat, more deep.   I was feeling like if I try to play ball back to the court, she just hit the winner.  
So I was feeling I didn't have time to recover.   
   
 Q.   The second set was a real tussle.   The first set was short; third set was short; hour in the second set.   Tell us about that, all the break points.   
LI NA:   Yeah, I think in the second set was turn around the match, because I think ‑‑ second set, I mean, on her serve game not like first set she just win all the time like easy.  
So I think I was give a little bit tough time for her, yeah.   
   
 Q.   What about the third set?  
LI NA:   Third set?   
   
 Q.   Was that as easy as the first was hard?   
LI NA:   I think after I win the first game, break again, I was feeling like, Oh, okay, now I have chance.   First time I believe I can win the match.   
Even I win the second set, I still thinking we were like same level, you know.  
   
 Q.   Did you feel her tire?   Looked to us like she got really tired in the third set.   Did you sense that?  
LI NA:   I think I'm older, right?   So if tired‑‑ I should tired than her.   (Laughter.)  
   
 Q.   How important was your serving today?   
LI NA:   I mean, if I serve same like first set, I mean, I was for sure lose the match like easy.  
So I tried to hit a little bit harder the second serve, because I really want to make a chance for myself.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT