APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 11, 2012
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. LI/L. Safarova
  6‑2, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Another day, another win.   How does it feel today?  
NA LI:   So windy today.   I mean, if I hit the ball, I really didn't know where the ball was going.   
Also, if she hit the ball, I really couldn't see where the ball was coming from.  
Yeah, I think today was another challenge because the windy and also condition.   
But, yeah, finally I win the match.  
   
 Q.   How does it feel to be back in the semifinals?  
NA LI:   Of course feeling good.   I mean, win last year and this year come to the semis just beginning of the year, yeah, I was feeling much, much stronger, yeah.  
   
 Q.   You're on your way to defending your title.   You won last year and went to the final of the Australian Open.   Do you feel you're on track to do just as well or better?   
NA LI:   I mean, yeah, now I was feeling much, much better in the last half year.   Yeah, because I think now is feeling more stronger, more fit.  
Also I was happy how I move on the court, yeah.  
   
 Q.   Any thoughts on the possible semifinal matchup?   Kvitova or Hantuchova.   Few thoughts on both players?  
NA LI:   Of course both player was top player, but they have to fighting first.   So, yeah, I have the more time to recover.   
But, you know, I was good friend with Daniela, so another tough game if I play against her.   Yeah, I believe we will try the best tennis on the court.  
But for Petra, I mean, she was like another lefty, huge, big serve, and good hands on the court.   I mean, yeah, doesn't matter who win the match, for sure these two is tough opponent against.  
   
 Q.   Nice to play a lefty if you have to play Petra, right?   There are not too many on the women's tour.   
NA LI:   Yeah, I know.   The lefty is really totally different than right‑hand because the serve.   Also the spin is totally different.  
Yeah, but anyway, just challenge, yeah.   
   
 Q.   When was the last time you feel your tennis was at this level?   
NA LI:   Last year before the Wimbledon.   I mean, even in the Wimbledon I was feeling I play well.   But after, I don't know what happened.   Didn't work.   (Smiling.)   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Were you surprised when she challenged you so much in the second set?   
NA LI:   I mean, yeah, I was feeling like ‑‑ 6‑All was beginning the tiebreak.   I was feeling my hand was (indiscernible) already.  
So, yeah, I would like to say I was so lucky I can win the tiebreak.   If not, I think for sure I lose the third set, because she's try hard on the court and also play better and better.  
But I just push ball back to the court, yeah.   
   
 Q.   We haven't asked you about your husband.   How is it going?  
NA LI:   You mean husband or coach?   Which way?   Both way.  
   
 Q.   Still working well, obviously.   
NA LI:   Yeah, for the husband he always doing good job.  
   
 Q.   And the coach?  
NA LI:   For the coach, I mean, yeah, sometimes I was feeling he was doing good, but sometimes I feel like he's doing some stupid thing.   Yeah, so...  
But if I can win the match, I have listen what he say.  
   
 Q.   So when you're listening to him, are you doing what he's telling you or sometimes you're saying you are but you're actually not?   
NA LI:   I mean, yeah, sometimes‑‑ if I call him come to the coaching, of course I listen what he say.  
But, yeah, after match he always like to say, See, after you talk to you you always can win the match.   I just say, Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.   
But deep inside I was thinking about, Come on, I was play on the court, not you.   You could only talk to win the match, you know, yeah.   (Smiling.)  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT