APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 10, 2012
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. LI/C. Scheepers
  2‑6, 6‑4, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Three sets in the heat.   Probably not what you wanted this early in tournament, but you need it because this is Australia. 
NA LI:   Yeah, I mean, I have to used to the heat.   I mean, otherwise in Melbourne also same weather, same thing.
But today I was feeling‑‑ beginning of the match I was feeling so relax.   No, because I thought what my coach talk to me, and I saw totally different.   So that's why. 
Beginning of the match I was thinking, Wow, she can hit the ball so deep and every ball back to my court.   I was like, What's going on?   What should I do? 
After first set I think I ‑‑ and also beginning of the set I really want to hit so many winner to win the point were, but doesn't work. 
Yeah, after first set I think I was change a little bit to play more ball back to the court and find a chance to win the point.

Q.   She played Serena last week in Brisbane.   Did you see any of that match?   Did you know much about her before?
NA LI:   I was play her I think two years ago in Wimbledon.   Yeah, but serve was totally different. 
So, yeah, I mean, you should tell me before.   I should watch she play, yeah.   (Smiling.)

Q.   Tell us about the fitness training.   You mentioned last week you were in Munich. 
NA LI:   Yeah, I was in Munich.

Q.   Tell us what you did in the off‑season. 
NA LI:   Yeah, I have winter training one month.   Like totally four weeks was in Munich.   Like every day two hours for tennis and three hours for fitness.   Like I do everything:   weight, jump, footwork, and everything, because I want to‑‑ I want my body was like healthy, fit, otherwise, I mean, I couldn't stay for whole year.

Q.   Did that standard you in good stead today into the third set?
NA LI:   Actually, I was really tired in the final set, but I didn't want to show opponent.   So, you know, yeah. 

Q.   Sam Stosur has been eliminated yesterday, so you haven't got an opportunity to compete her before Australian Open.   It's pitiful for you? 
NA LI:   It's what? 

Q.   Sam Stosur was defeated yesterday, so you haven't got any opportunity to compete her just before Australian Open.   Do you think it's a pity? 
NA LI:   I mean, she's play very tough match yesterday.   Schiavone is not easy opponent to beat.   I saw the match yesterday.   I mean, she play unbelievable points. 
Yeah, Sam lost the match.   Of course was sad.   That's not mean she not good player.   She still is good player, but maybe just some point she didn't hold or some more mistake. 
I would like to say Schiavone yesterday was play fantastic tennis.   Yeah, I don't think it's (indiscernible) for Sam to play Australia Open, yeah.

Q.   Especially since last year, you've been on stadium court constantly.   Is it nice to kind of be on a smaller court and feel the crowd again and have that interaction?
NA LI:   Yeah, today I was feeling more, because after I lose first set so many fans was like to say, Oh, come on.   You can do it.   I was feeling, yeah, this year much, much better than last year.
I still remember last year I was play final against Kim, so all the fans was come to her side.   But, yeah, I wish they can change a little bit.   (Smiling.)

Q.   You're defending champion this year.   Obviously a little bit different for you.   How is it different?   Do you feel extra pressure?   People now you now, I suppose.   What you did in the Australian Open as well. 
NA LI:   Yeah, of course now is getting more famous.   Many people know who I am. 
But for me, I have good experience for last year, because after French Open I didn't do well.   So I learn a lot, and also I understand what I should doing on the court, not only off the court.
So, yeah, right now I didn't feel any pressure, because right now is new season start already.   Yeah, I just look forward to play.

Q.   How much of a burden on Caroline do you think it is that she hasn't won a major?   It comes up every time she gives an interview. 
NA LI:   I would like to say she's really tough player.   Really.   I mean, every time I was against her always like tired, even cramping.
I mean, yeah, every time was like ‑‑ because I was hit the ball, she just running on the court.   I mean, every time for me I was feeling like, Why she didn't miss the ball?   Why I couldn't hit the winner?   Yeah, also in Australia was like heat, yeah. 
But I think she's improve a lot in the forehand, because I saw before she miss a lot in the forehand.   Now she didn't have any mistake, because I just saw last game.   Yeah.

Q.   The media makes a big deal of not winning a Grand Slam.   Do the players care if another player has a Grand Slam or not?   Does she have as much respect because she's No. 1 if she would if she had won a Grand Slam? 
NA LI:   It's also not easy.   She has two years in a row, right, No. 1 in the world.   It's not easy to do it. 
Also of course the goal is for her to win a Grand Slam.   I think she just keep going.   Never give up.

Q.   Yesterday Sam Stosur said she had trouble dealing with the expectations.   How do you deal with expectations and pressure?   What advice would you have for her?
NA LI:   Actually, I use half year to learn that, so I mean, it's really tough.   Really. 
I mean, because after French Open ‑‑ I think Sam experience, because after French Open I couldn't concentration on the court anymore because I have to do so many thing out of court.   I couldn't just practice or something.
Sometimes if I was practice, so many people coming to ask the questions, to do the interview, photo shooting.   This is really tough half year for me. 
But now, yeah, like what I'm say before:   now I'm totally understand what I should doing on the court. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT