APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 9, 2012
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. LI/E. Makarova
  6‑0, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please?  
   
 Q.   In Perth you got better as the week went on.   Was today another step on the road for next week?  
NA LI:   Next week?   
   
 Q.   Preparation for next week.   Was today another good step towards it?   
NA LI:   I mean, yeah, right now I'm still in Sydney, so I'm not thinking about Melbourne, you know.   I have to focus on this tournament first.  
Yeah, I think today I was do well.   But for Makarova, I think in the beginning of the set she didn't play her best tennis, so that's why I was winning easy in the first set.  
But second set she tried to stand up, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Which parts of your game are you happy with at the moment and which ones do you still feel need work?   
NA LI:   I mean, now I was happy about how like I was moving on the court, to see how to hit the shot.   
Yeah, maybe I should working a little bit more my serve, because in the second set my serve didn't work, yeah.  
   
 Q.   What's the secret to your success and strengths and areas you need to improve?  
NA LI:   I mean, I should improve a lot for my serve otherwise, not easy to win my serve game.   Just try hard working, yeah.  
   
 Q.   Was there moment in the second set that you got a little bit worried?   She fought back and you had to work a little harder.   Is that nice to have a little bit of a challenge in the second set?   
NA LI:   Yeah, after, I mean she is back to 3‑All, I was think about, Okay, now you should stand up, otherwise maybe can go three sets.   
Yeah, so that's why at like 4‑3 I call the coach come to coaching and to see how is the heat feeling out of court.  
So, yeah, I think it's working, so...  
   
 Q.   How well do you think you're playing compared to this time last year?  
NA LI:   Last year is over, so I don't have to think about what I do already last year.   I mean, everyone have to look forward to see what you should do right now.   
   
 Q.   An event like this when there are so many of the top 10 here, do you keep an eye on the other people in the top 10 to see how they're doing as well, or are you just focused on what you're doing?   
NA LI:   I mean, I couldn't take care many thing, so I just focus on what I'm doing, yeah.  
   
 Q.   How is the knee?   
NA LI:   Pretty good.   (Smiling.)   Yeah, I can running a lot on the court, yeah.  
   
 Q.   What's the goal for London games?   Do you go for gold?   
NA LI:   Half year so you never know what happen for this half year.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT