TEB BNP PARIBAS WTA CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 28, 2011
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. STOSUR/N. Li
  6-1, 6-0

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Was Sam just a bit too strong out there today for you?
 NA LI: Just like to say today is not my day. 

 Q. Do you feel that you lose confidence against Sam because of the style of play that she does play?
 NA LI: I don't think I lose confidence. I would like to say today is not my day. That's all. 

 Q. So it wasn't your day. So what was going wrong? It didn't look like many things were going right for you today. 
 NA LI: I mean, today I was feeling my legs was really, really heavy. I mean, just come to the court, I mean, I really want to win the match. I know the winner can still stay in the semis. 
 But, I mean, I don't know what happened today. I mean, I try a lot exercise on the court but didn't work. Yeah. 

 Q. It's the end of your season. 
 NA LI: Yeah.

 Q. Maybe the first half was different than the second half. But talk about it a little bit. How do you feel about 2011?
 NA LI: Was up, down, up, down. I mean, beginning of the year was like fantastic and fantastic start. And, yeah, after Roland Garros I think I didn't win many matches. 
 So no. I mean, up and down all the year, so I wish I could do the same level for next year.

 Q. Do you think you will look for a new coach or have a new coach when we see you next year?
 NA LI: I mean, you know, really not easy to find a new coach, because, I mean, on this tour and also now it's end of the year, and, I mean, for Australia only two month, so first you have to have good communication with a new coach. It is not easy.
 So, I mean, right now, yeah, I have to talk to the team first to see which way for me is the best way. Yeah.

 Q. But you'll consider a new coach, or you're not going to even think about it?
 NA LI: I mean, if really have a nice coach, of course I would take it. But I have to see the chance. Yeah. This tour is really not easy to find a good coach, a nice person. Yeah.

 Q. You obviously have played Sam quite a few times this year. Have you noticed her improvement or anything different at all as the year has gone on and maybe particularly since she won the US Open title?
 NA LI: Of course after Sam win the US Open, I think for sure she has a lot of confidence.
 I mean, before she always had tough serve for all the girls, you know, so it's not easy to return for the game.
 And after, can imagine after she win the US Open, of course, I mean, even more tougher.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT