TEB BNP PARIBAS WTA CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 27, 2011
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 V. AZARENKA/N. Li
  6-2, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. With obviously tonight's result, that obviously puts quite a bit of pressure and expectation on your next match against Samantha tomorrow. I'm just wondering how you see that.   
 NA LI: Saw so just like normal tournament. The winner can go in the draw, and the loser have to go back. I mean, yeah, it's tough.  
 So I think both have to fighting a lot; otherwise another one have to fly back to home. So, yeah, we will see.  
  
  Q. How did you feel your level was today and her level?  
 NA LI: I mean, yeah, she's play well today. I mean, I have a lot of mistake today, and also I feeling she's running pretty good today on the court. Otherwise I think I can hit the winner, but she just tried to play ball back on the court. So, yeah.   
  
  Q. Your coach came out a few times. Are you using on-court coaching now more than you used to in the past?  
 NA LI: I mean, really is tough, you know, the coaching husband come to the court.  
 I mean, but I didn't like today the coaching. I was feeling a little bit uncomfortable on the court, yeah.  
  
  Q. Does he always talk to you about tactics on the court, or does he say, like, What are you we going to have for dinner tonight?  
 NA LI: Oh, come on. He never say that on court. I ask him come to court for coaching, not for talk about what for dinner. We can talk about that out of the court but not on the court.  
  
  Q. So are you saying that you would rather that in the WTA coaches didn't come onto the court and just players get on with it like they always used to?  
 NA LI: I didn't say that.  
  
  Q. You like having a coach come on court, then, do you?  
 NA LI: I mean, sometimes even if I feeling I need help, of course. I like to ask the coach, but if I'm feeling good on the court, I don't need the coach to come to coaching. Yeah.   
  
  Q. You don't have a great record against Sam. How do you think you can overturn that tomorrow night?  
 NA LI: I mean, this is last chance for me, can't stay. So, I mean, you know, I was lose this year I think three time in a row.  
 So I know it's tough match for me, but what I can do? I mean, I just try the best tennis on the court. Yeah.   
  
  Q. She makes a lot of noise when she hits the ball. Does this bother you when you're playing?  
 NA LI: I think it's okay. I mean, I know she's so loud, but seem like if sleep, go to snoring, someone is snoring, someone is not. Yeah, you have to get used to.   
 Also, because I'm not first time against her, so I know how she play on the court. So for me it was fine.  
  
  Q. Do you think the tour should do something about loud players?  
 NA LI: I don't think so. I mean, this different every player. Everyone is different, like I was say before: Someone snoring, someone is not. What you can do? You couldn't ask the snoring people, say, Hey, you couldn't do that. I mean, this is problem, so...   
  
  Q. But on the tennis court you could tell them not to do something. Maybe not sleeping, but on the tennis court you could tell them.   
 NA LI: I mean, I didn't want to change that because I feel for me it was okay. So yeah.   
  
  Q. If you were voting on a player of the year for the WTA, who would you pick, including yourself?  
 NA LI: (Smiling).  
 Maria? Maria?   
  
  Q. Maria?  
 NA LI: Yeah. I always think she -- she's tough, like doesn't matter if she was like win first set or she lose first set. I mean, if you see the body language, she always fighting on the court. So yeah.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT