TEB BNP PARIBAS WTA CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 26, 2011
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. LI/M. Sharapova
  7-6, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

 Q. How did you feel in that match? Does that kind of a win help your confidence after, you know, the last few months?
 NA LI: Yeah. I mean, first match I win after US Open. (Smiling.)
 Yeah, I mean, I was so happy today I can win this match, and also I think I was fighting a lot on the court. I mean, not only me but also Maria. Both player was fighting a lot on the court.
 So, yeah. I so lucky finally I can win a match. Yeah.

 Q. What do you think your level of play was today?
 NA LI: I mean, of course, I mean, first match, a little bit nervous and also really want to win the match.
 But, yeah, I know that both player didn't play their 100%. But still both player play high level.

 Q. What was your game plan? What was the strategy today before going on court?
 NA LI: I mean, you know, we are professional player, so we play the match just like a job for us.
 So of course before come to the court was a little bit nervous, but, you know, my team just say, Okay, calm down. First match. Enjoy. Last tournament for all the year. You have think about this tournament as vacation. You have to think about that.
 So, you know, I mean, of course if I come to the court, I mean, every player have to try the best on the court.

 Q. But I mean was the idea to maybe play low balls to make her work? Because, you know, maybe she has -- she's not completely fit, 100%. Was it to make her run sideways, forward, or do you not want to tell us?
 NA LI: Secret, secret. (Laughter.)
 I mean, doesn't matter who's my opponent. I always play my tennis. I'm not thinking different opponent, play different idea. I didn't want to change my game against different opponent. Yeah.

 Q. Maria obviously kind of took Thomas Hogstedt from you. You have now beaten her twice. Does that give you extra satisfaction?
 NA LI: What? 
 THE MODERATOR: Thomas, her coach, is now working with Maria. Does that give you more incentive? 
 NA LI: Well, as you say, I mean, the player change the coach is like normal. I mean -- ah. I mean, now Thomas is Maria coach. I know Thomas know me very much. 
 What I should say? I couldn't say, Okay, you couldn't coach her. I mean, it's not my job. Yeah. 

 Q. I think you have a match against Victoria before you play Sam. You don't have a great record against Sam, but does a match like today give you confidence of being able to turn that around when you do play at the tournament?
 NA LI: I mean, for this group, everyone is tough. I mean, last two times I play well against Azarenka, but doesn't mean anything for this time, you know. 
 And, yeah, I know tomorrow I will play against Victoria. I mean, of course another tough match. Opponent is a little bit same like today. So I just stay in focus.

 Q. How worried were you at 5-4 in the second set? You were up 5-2 and then she was coming back. I mean, she almost came back to 5-5, right?
 NA LI: But not. (Smiling.)

 Q. What was going through your mind, though?
 NA LI: I mean, of course after 5-2, I think, okay, serve game. Maybe I can win the match.
 But tennis is amazing sport. So she's come back like 5-4. I was like 15-40, and she has two break points. 
 But, you know, I mean, maybe same like first set I was like 4-2 down and also 4-Love in the tiebreaker, but I'm still fighting so never give up. 
 So yeah. She's not come back 5-All. (Smiling.)

 Q. Did you speak already with your husband what he told you? Because he must have felt really frustrated and stressed after you was losing 4-0 in the tiebreak. Did you have some discussion or something what he told you?
 NA LI: I mean, he just show face. Didn't say anything. (Laughter.)

 Q. Was it happy face?
 NA LI: Yeah, yeah. No. Joke. 
 No, of course, I mean, he's the coach. So first he come and say, Yeah, you play well. Just continue. Don't think about too much. I mean, if you win the first set, doesn't mean anything. You have to start, start at 0 right now. So like still same level against opponent so just keep going. Yeah.

 Q. You won against Maria fourth time in a row. What's the secret? Did you find a special way to beat her even in tough situations?
 NA LI: I really didn't think about that. I mean, yeah, I have -- this not easy to answer. So, I mean, every time I'm just thinking to play, just play my game, play, play my tennis on the court. 
 I mean, yeah. Tennis is easy. You don't need to think about too much. Just black and white. 

 Q. What did you like and what you didn't about your game today?
 NA LI: I like I was fighting a lot on the court. Never give up.
 I didn't like the serve. I mean, so many doubles faults. So give more -- I mean, a lot of free point to opponent. Yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT