TEB BNP PARIBAS WTA CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 24, 2011
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: This 29-year-old owns five career singles titles and is the first Asian person to win a Grand Slam when she won Roland Garros. Please welcome Li Na. If we can have our first question.   
  
  Q. Congratulations on qualifying for the WTA Championships. You have been asked this question before, but can you tell us, since winning the French Open, what's it been like for you back in China? Has it been a little bit crazy?  
 NA LI: I mean, yeah, I answer this question like a hundred times but I still have to answer 101 time.   
 Yeah, I mean, after French Open I know if I go back straightaway for sure China will be going crazy, so I think I was smart. So I stay in Europe until Wimbledon.  
 But I still like a little bit surprised for me, because I didn't do well in the Wimbledon. So I think if I go back China, maybe not so many people remember me already.   
 But 5th of July I have ceremony for the French Open champion, but I was come there. The weather is so humid and still I think at least 3,000 fans was come to watch me.  
 So I have to say, yeah, the life was change a little bit, not too much, but until now I'm still tennis player. So tennis is my job, so I still have to working so hard on tennis court, try my best in tennis.  
  
  Q. Does everyone recognize you? And are more people playing tennis now in China?  
 NA LI: Well, I mean, after French Open, of course so many children will pick up the tennis racquet. But after French Open I didn't do well.   
 So now is another step. I have to stand up again. I wish I can do these tournaments same like before.  
  
  Q. Are you potentially a better player now?  
 NA LI: I mean, you know, I play 20 years tennis. I mean, you couldn't say, Oh, next day I couldn't play tennis, because everything is from mentally, you know, because after I win French Open, many things coming and is tough to concentration on court.  
 So now I have more experience. So I think now I get.  
  
  Q. How are you feeling? Obviously you haven't been playing great since the French Open. Is it easy to kind of get disheartened and doubt yourself, or do you still feel good about your tennis and stuff?  
 NA LI: I mean, of course. If I didn't win one match I feeling not so good. I mean, but I'm still happy I can be the champion end of the year and doesn't matter. I always so proud of myself because I do well in the beginning of the year. So this is the last one, so I wish I can do well.   
  
  Q. My question will be comparison between Turkey and China. We know that success in sports is a staple in China. Even in curling you became world champions with women. In Turkey, for example, it's a little bit similar when you compare young people are not that into tennis yet. This event is good luck with us. As a Chinese citizen, as a Chinese person, what's your opinion about? What can Turkey do as in not very successful country in terms of players in tennis to be able to improve? Because you said that when you won French Open, then the children go and buy racquets. But we don't have a player that will be winning a Grand Slam in the short period. What's your opinion? What can we do?   
 NA LI: I mean, this is really tough question. I mean, I would, like you say, after French Open not only for my problem in it if children pick up the racquet. Before maybe tennis in China not so public. But after like not only me, maybe another China player like Jheng Jie, Yan Zi, and Peng. They also doing well.   
 Young children, they can see how the team is doing well. And also like three days ago I have half hour just play fun with Turkey young player. I saw have one guy -- not guy. Boys. Is very good. I mean, he was hitting ball so clean. I think either he has good coach or traveling a lot. I think he should be very good player. Yeah.   
  
  Q. Where is your confidence level right now?   
 NA LI: Of course now it's a little bit different after French Open, but, you know, this is the sport. This is tennis. I mean, you couldn't always win for all times. You have to win, you have to lose. Like I like in gym downstairs, they have one say "Every day is new challenge."   
 So I like that one. I mean, doesn't matter if I feeling confident or something. I still have to come to court to play my tennis.   
 So, yeah, I know so many people ask, How is your feeling now? I would like to say, Feeling good, because now I'm still in the champions. Yeah.   
  
  Q. What is your coaching situation right now?  
 NA LI: Yeah, I was back to my husband. Yeah, no, is tough. Like husband is coach, but I think he was totally understand what I'm doing.   
 Also, he know what I'm thinking. So I think I have to trust him again. So I wish I have good working.  
  
  Q. What about your book? How is that coming along?  
 NA LI: My what?   
  
  Q. Your book.   
 NA LI: Should be come soon. (Laughter.)  
 The book out next May around like French Open. Yeah.  
  
  Q. Are you talking to the writer or...   
 NA LI: Yeah, I will talk to the writer. So right now we still have good communication, yeah.  
  
  Q. Do you have in China a sportsman of the year and a sportswoman of the year every year? Is there an election?  
 NA LI: Yeah, we have.   
  
  Q. Are you a favorite in China?  
 NA LI: Of course. (Laughter.)  
  
  Q. Yes, but maybe sports we do not know that well. Table tennis, badminton maybe? How high do you rate your chances to become sportswoman of the year in China?  
 NA LI: I mean, I know everyone think tennis is not so public in China because in China they have badminton and table tennis.  
 But I would like to say tennis right now is getting better and better, because the whole tennis family and also WTA in Beijing they have office. I think they prove a lot and also whole tennis team, they doing good job for, I would like to say, three or four years. So right now so many people, they understand how is the tennis tour. So I think it's better.   
  
  Q. But you haven't been elected sportswoman of the year yet before in China?  
 NA LI: I think this is first year. Yeah. So that's mean this year better than last year. So wish next year better than this year.   
  
  Q. Talking about sports in general, every time we use the word "love," the athletes like you always say, First I am a tennis player, first I am this, but how do you rate the word "love" in your life when you are a professional player like you? I mean, must be important, but how do you use it? How do you manage?  
 NA LI: I mean, I know everyone would like to say, Oh, she's first one, like she's first one. But for me I would think tennis is my job because I love this job so I always want to try my best at tennis.  
 I mean, other way they say, Oh, she's first. That mean good word. Another bad way is China tennis need to prove a lot, because we didn't have to do well in before. So I will think about China still has a lot of room, can do even more better.   
 I would like to say thanks for the tour, because I have been on tour long time. And traveling a lot, see all of the world a lot. So of course it was a little bit different thinking for another people. Not only Chinese, because everywhere different idea.  
  
  Q. Next year is the Olympics. They obviously added on mixed doubles. Are you thinking of playing it? Maybe you should play with your husband or something?  
 NA LI: I don't think I was good doubles player. And also, I don't think my husband can run on the court. So this is tough. Yeah. So I mean, you know, in China they have many good young players. So for sure China Tennis Federation will give chance for the young player. Yeah.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT