CHINA OPEN
October 2, 2011
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. NICULESCU/N. Li
  6-4, 6-0

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. (Through translation.) Today on court I have interviewed a fan, a Chinese fan who has arrive from Guangzhou, and they were wearing shorts. Would you like to say something to those Chinese fans?
 NA LI: Take good care of your health. 

 Q. Can you describe what went wrong with your game? You seemed to have lots of spirit and strength, but the shots seemed to be going off. I know it's early now, but can you give us a flavor of what you think went wrong out there? 
 NA LI: I mean, right now I just lose all the confidence. On the court I don't know what I can do. I was feeling even win one point is tough for me. I mean, I tried to ask coach to come coach me, but, I mean, I know he speak exactly what's right, but I couldn't do it. 
 So I think right now it's end of the season, so it's long break for me, like not only for the body, for the mind also. I think that was more important. So hopefully I can stand up again and prepare for next year. 

 Q. Do you feel a lot more pressure now to win to satisfy your sponsors, to please them?
 NA LI: I mean, it's not -- I mean, if I walking on the court, I just play for myself, not for my sponsor. I mean, I only one person, so I couldn't think about too much. I know if I can do well on the court of course it's good for all the sponsor, but I have to say sorry for that. 
 I mean, right now I try to stand up, but I couldn't. So I wish I can doing better next year. 

 Q. (Through translation.) This year is a milestone year in your professional career. You have won your first Grand Slam championship. If would you like to summarize your season, what marks would you give yourself?
 NA LI: I wouldn't give marks to the performance of my season. This season my performance is like sitting in a rollercoaster. 

 Q. You said yesterday that you might consider playing in Europe after this tournament. What are your thoughts on that now? 
 NA LI: I mean, if I can play Championships I will play Championships. If not, end of the season, end of the year already, so... 

 Q. But you wouldn't play Linz or Luxembourg?
 NA LI: No, no. If I couldn't play Championships, this is my last tournament for all of the year. 

 Q. What would be your main priority now then trying to get your game back on track?
 NA LI: I mean, right now I was feeling even more tough than before I win Grand Slam, because right now all the opponents see you different. If they are against you, they feel like nothing to lose. 
 So, you know, like before I was play a Grand Slam champion, and for me I would think about, Okay, no pressure for me. Right now it's all the way turned around. 
 So, you know, now I think even I need have training even more than before. It's not easy for me, but if I want to do well in the whole career I have to do. 

 Q. (Through translation.) At the end of the match, you ran off court. Did you see say anything to Jiang Shan? 
 NA LI: Not yet.

 Q. Were are from the official site of the China Open, and we have collected some questions from the fans. Which player do you think you appreciate most? 
 NA LI: Next question. 

 Q. (Through translation.) Just now you have mentioned you seem to be less confident. Why? When do you feel this sort of situation? Some other Chinese players seem to also have the same problem. In the first two Grand Slams they seemed to be performing well, but in the last two it's not the case. 
 NA LI: Confidence should be built on victories. 

 Q. Would you comment on your opponent today? Like Sam Stosur, she has a lot of topspin. Are you not getting used to that sort of style of play?
 NA LI: No confidence, if a player has no confidence, naturally you will lose the match. 

 Q. Obviously winning and losing is part of the game. Perhaps a lot fans don't quite see that. But in terms of your loss today, you looked quite shocked yourself. How would you rate it? Was it the worst because of where we are, the new stadium, or it's just a game, part of the actual game?
 NA LI: You know, in China is special. Biggest tournament in China. Of course I want to do well. Also I know if I do well in this tournament, for sure I can play Championships. 
 But, I mean, everything is coming, so, I mean, sometimes if I really want to do well, more pressure is come to me. So it's not only pressure I give myself. It's not for my team. It's from outside. 
 So, yeah. Match is over, so I have to look forward. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT