CHINA OPEN
October 1, 2011
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. For the time being, you have sa plan for opening a tennis school? What is your opinion?  
 NA LI: Right now I'm still a tennis player, and all this stuff is being managed by my managers.   
  
  Q. I'm from CCTV news channel, and you are in the main draw and it seems you have easy early rounds, but in quarterfinals I suppose you are going to play Sam Stosur. What's your comment on your opponent and your expectation against Sam Stosur?  
 NA LI: Who says my early rounds could be easy? Nobody there to see like that. Anything can happen on court.  
  
  Q. This could be the first time you are at the top seed and coming to the new stadium in the China Open 2011. What do you think about it as a top seed?   
 NA LI: As a top seed, you are not guaranteed you are going to win. I am happy to come in the new stadium in 2011, and I'm very lucky and happy to have practiced with the roof closed 15 minutes, and with the roof open I also had the chance to practice for another 15 minutes.   
 I feel great for the time being.   
  
  Q. I'm from ESPN, and the first question is it's been heard that your physical condition is bot quite well. Will that affect your performance at this tournament? Your younger sisters in the national team, Peng Shuai and Zhang Shuai, are this year in the China Open 2011 in the main draw, and it seems they don't have a good draw. What is your expectation for those younger Chinese tennis players?   
 NA LI: As to my form, you can see. My form is what you can judge. I will not tell it by myself. It all depends on your opinion.  
 The second question, in the main draw, what can I do to help these young Chinese tennis players? There is nothing about it that I can do. What can be done is all by themselves.   
 Naturally I expect that those local players from China will play quite well in the China Open.   
  
  Q. After the US Open we have found you have made a good adjustment and seem to have enjoyed yourself. Now are you ready for the China Open?  
 NA LI: Yes. And every time, at different times of the season, we should do different things. After the United States Open, naturally I have a longer period of time for adjustment. Now the China Open has already started, and now I get longer to enjoy myself. I have to work hard and to concentrate on myself for all the competition.  
 As for the end, the WTA World Championship finals, I will, if there is a chance, I will try to compete in Germany after China Open.   
  
  Q. About your coach Mortenson, you seemed to have a very good cooperation with your coach Mortenson. You achieved your first Grand Slam, and now you terminated the contract with your coach Mortenson. Will you give me a comment about it?   
 NA LI: It's hard to say. It's like person in love. If you feel it's not right, not proper, you just separate. Only a person who's in it will be able to tell.   
  
  Q. We believe that you are the most fashionable tennis player. What do you think about it?   
 NA LI: In my opinion, only if I feel comfortable, and then that's okay. It always depends. It's a matter of opinions. Different people will have different opinion about it.   
  
  Q. At the beginning of the this year, your coach, Thomas, has left, and then you have selected Mortenson, and now Mortenson is gone. It's your husband, Shan Jiang coming back to be your coach again. What do you think about it?   
 NA LI: This question will put me in a very awkward situation no matter what my answer is. Naturally Shan Jiang knows me best, and between us it seems no language is required. A sign, eye contact will tell the story.   
 It's harder to deal with the sort of relationship between me and my husband than the general coaching relationship.  
 And the roles are changing now. It's a bit difficult, naturally it will not be that fast. I wish I can cooperate well with my husband like I did at the beginning of the year.   
  
  Q. When you were working with Mortenson, you said Mortenson was able to provide a very positive energy in your coaching, and now Mortenson has left you. Does that mean you don't need him in this regard? You can do it, you can handle it by yourself?   
 NA LI: I believe that to be a good coach, to provide the positive energy, is far from sufficient.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT