U.S. OPEN
August 30, 2011
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. HALEP/N. Li
  6-2, 7-5 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. How disappointing is this for you?   
 NA LI: I think it's terrible feeling. I mean, two years in a row, first round here, first round Indian Wells, Miami.   
 I mean, normally I like hard court a lot. But I think these two years I just doing shit.   
  
  Q. You added the New Haven tournament. Was that added late in your schedule?  
 NA LI: No. I was like to play New Haven because after Wimbledon I didn't have many matches. I was come to New Haven to play more matches to prepare for US Open.   
 But, you know, hurricane was coming, so you never know. I was coming here Saturday morning. Two days, all you can do is stay in the room, nothing to do. Didn't even go out of the room because is scared.   
 Suddenly my coach was call early Monday morning to find the practice time. I mean, doesn't matter because I'm not doing so well, yeah, I mean, today, yeah.   
  
  Q. Do you feel like you've been struggling? Since Roland Garros you've had early-round exits from tournaments. Can you describe what you're struggling with right now?  
 NA LI: I mean, for me I really want to do well after Roland Garros. But, you know, I mean, it's not easy to do. Always easy to say, I want to do, I would like to do, but always lose early. Now I even lose all the confidence on the court.   
 I was feeling, Oh, tennis just too tough for me, yeah.   
  
  Q. All four of the reigning Grand Slam champions are now gone from this tournament. Is that the depth of women's tennis, or is it a long season and just hard to keep that fitness?  
 NA LI: I mean, I really didn't think about that. Before I come to the court, I never think like I was Grand Slam champion. French Open is like three month already. I mean, is enough time to forget.   
 Now is hard court season. You have to focus on hard court. You can't only think about what you do on clay court. If you think about clay, you have to think about next year, not this year.   
  
  Q. You said right now your confidence is very low.   
 NA LI: Yeah.   
  
  Q. Do you feel coming into this tournament that you just didn't have that self-confidence? Do you think that contributed to the loss today?   
 NA LI: I mean, every player come to the court never think about they can lose today. Just come to the court, continue the match.   
 Before the match, I was talk to my coach. I say, I didn't have good timing to hit the ball. He tell me everything is perfect, everything is fantastic.   
 I say, Yes, everything is fantastic, but I always lose first round. I mean, this is not fantastic.   
 I think we need to change something. I think maybe the team or coach just try to give me confidence, but I don't think I get.   
  
  Q. So after a long, successful season, do you feel tired at this point of the season when you come to the last Grand Slam?   
 NA LI: I'm not think that tired or something because I always exciting to play US Open, because US Open always last Grand Slam for all the year. I really want to do well, but opponent just killing me, so, yeah.   
  
  Q. Do you think it's pressure, that having won and becoming even more famous has put that much more pressure on you when you get to the Grand Slams?   
 NA LI: I didn't feel any pressure even when I was play. I was thinking right now I need to harder working even more than before. Because now, I mean, even after win the Grand Slam, everyone just like - how you say - exciting against you. Because after they beat you, they think, Oh, I beat Grand Slam champion.   
 So, you know, it's not easy to play every match, no.   
  
  Q. You were scheduled to make an appearance in Chinatown. That appearance was canceled. It was announced that you were going to play in New Haven. What happened with that appearance? Did you feel you didn't have the time to do that, that you needed to focus on your tennis?   
 NA LI: I think for hurricane, everyone have to stay in the room.   
  
  Q. No, the Monday before.   
 NA LI: Yeah, because I was come here Saturday, because I play New Haven.   
  
  Q. Before that, you were supposed to make an appearance in Chinatown.   
 THE MODERATOR: I think she's saying she was playing New Haven.   
 NA LI: Because I was playing New Haven, so I couldn't come.   
  
  Q. Was New Haven added as a late addition to your schedule?   
 NA LI: Yeah, normally the schedule I have to come to Chinatown. Last second I say I need some matches, so I have to play in New Haven.  
  
  Q. Are you at all dreading the grief you'll get back at home from this performance? Do you think you'll get grief from the press in your hometown?  
 NA LI: You mean this time or last time? This time I don't think someone was waiting for me, but last time, yes.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT