NEW HAVEN OPEN AT YALE
August 25, 2011
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. LI/A. Pavlyuchenkova
  6-4, 3-6, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Li Na. 

 Q. Can you talk about how the delays affected you. 
 NA LI: I think today is the longest match I never play (laughter). The schedule start 1:00. Suddenly was rain coming. We wait till 3:30. Okay, I was like, Now is better, we can play the match. During the match they still have rain. 
 I think it was tough. Like you really play on the court already, but suddenly rain was coming, you have cool down, you have to warm again. 
 Also I think today I would like to say sorry, but she sprained the ankle in the final set. So sorry for her. Wish good luck for her in the US Open. 

 Q. Your coach came out during the injury timeout. Did that help you at all? 
 NA LI: Yeah, because I just lost the second set, so I just wanted to communication what happen because sometimes the coach can see the truth. Sometimes if I was play, maybe I block already. 
 So, yeah, I think, of course, I always like to have good communication with the team, with the coach. 

 Q. Is this your longest match from the point of view of start to finish?
 NA LI: Yes, I think so. Yeah, it is. 

 Q. How was it to start and stop, wait and go again?
 NA LI: I mean, always tough. I think I was warm up hundred times already. Like because after stop the rain, you have to warm up again. You never know what happen. 
 Like today, beginning of the match, I was warm up many times because the rain just like stop, rain again, stop. All the time I was warm. I was like, C'mon, if I didn't come to court, I was cramping all right. 
 Always tough. You prepare for the match, but you couldn't do anything for the weather, yeah.

 Q. What did you do to pass the time? 
 NA LI: I was sleep little bit, yeah, in the beginning. But after the second time, after the first set, the rain coming again, I just sit down, cool down a little bit, think about what I should do better in the match, yeah.

 Q. There was a point where you both walked to the net thinking the match was over. How bizarre was that?
 NA LI: Yeah, I was ready to shake the hand already. Suddenly I hear, Replay the point. I was like, What happened? And they say, Because chair umpire heard linesman, was like she's not sure it's in or out. She can hear the voice, so that's why we play. 
 But it's okay, I think good for practice. 

 Q. Have you ever seen a play like that before?
 NA LI: I think this is first time, yeah. I mean, something you couldn't change. You have to follow the chair umpire, what they say, yeah. Because, I mean, if chair umpire didn't say, Game, set, match, you have to continue. Everyone have the chance.

 Q. At the last point, were you like, Thank God, this is finally over?
 NA LI: No, because after I was lose the game, it was like 5-2. I was like, C'mon, what were you doing here? You have three match points, now it's back to 5-2. Give more chance for the opponent. I mean, this is dangerous thing, yeah. 

 Q. Can you talk about how nice it was last night to have that reception afterwards, all those fans there for you?
 NA LI: Yeah, I mean, pretty good, because after press conference I was meet in the grandstand court. I mean, I know it's not easy for them because after a match, was like 9:30 already, but they still waiting for me to say hello, little bit talk each other. I was I was feeling like I like them a lot, yeah.

 Q. Were you surprised how many were there? Did you have an idea how many were going to be there?
 NA LI: I was little bit surprised, really, because I heard yesterday they say they have like 400, 500 student come to watch. I was like, Wow, it's a lot, yeah. 

 Q. Do you revel in that, like the fact that so many people have followed your career and look at you in that way?
 NA LI: Yeah, I mean, why not? Yeah, I like it, yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT