WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 16, 2011
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. LI/L. Safarova
  6-3, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Happy to finally get your first win in the summer?
 NA LI: Yeah, win first match after Wimbledon. You know, I needed some matches for the hard court. Always tough, but I was happy I can win today the match. 
 Yeah.

 Q. She was having a lot of trouble with her serve. Talk about how that kind of played into the match there. 
 NA LI: I mean, I think today I have a pretty good serve, and on her serve game, I just tried put a little bit pressure for her. You know, lefty always the serve was different than right side. 
 I know she's dangerous player. I have to give more pressure for her and try to show the positive thing on the court and make her make mistake. 
 Yeah. 

 Q. When you're out there and right now coming back, what's the most difficult thing for you to adjust to? Movement? Timing on the ball? What are you focusing on to get your form back? 
 NA LI: I mean, I don't think it's something bad like running or forehand, backhand. I think was a little bit timing, because not like before, you know exactly after shot where you're going. 
 Now because I miss a lot, I think I need some matches for me to find the timing on the court.
 Yeah.

 Q. A lot of players have Twitter accounts. Do you ever think of getting a Twitter account, your own Twitter account? (Through translation.) 
 THE MODERATOR: I take it that's a no.
 NA LI: Oh, no. 

 Q. After the French Open, a lot of people asked you how was the impact in China, and you said you hadn't been back yet and you didn't know. Now you've been back. What did you see in terms of the impact of your win at the French?
 NA LI: Amazing. Yeah, because after I have the celebration 5th of July in Beijing. I think because I didn't do well in the Wimbledon, so maybe not so many people coming.
 But the day was like warm, so warm, but still I think at least thousand people was coming just to say, Well done, congratulations. I was feeling like, wow, now I'm star, you know (smiling.)
 And also, I just feel right now that they know exactly what is my name and what sport I was play. Before they always think about, Oh, is her? Like not sure, you know. 
 So, yeah, life was change a little bit, but I like it. (Smiling.)

 Q. Serena Williams is going to be playing later today. What do you think about her comeback? Is she dangerous again?
 NA LI: I think she always dangerous. Yeah, I mean, if she stay healthy on the court, always dangerous.

 Q. Did you see any part of her game that you're amazed that she's come back from with what she's had to deal with?
 NA LI: I would like to see how is her movement on the court. Yeah, I mean, she's tough player and always fighting a lot of the court. Yeah. (Smiling.) 
 So, I mean, if I have chance, I would like to play against her just for another challenge for yourself. Why not? 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT