WIMBLEDON
June 23, 2011
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. LISICKI/N. Li
  3-6, 6-4, 8-6 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
  
  Q. How tired are you in your mind?  
 NA LI: I'm not tired. I mean, after lose the match, tough match, of course was a little bit sad. But I think both players today played great match on the court. Only I can say is unlucky for me, yeah. So, yeah.   
  
  Q. Can you tell us what went wrong.   
 NA LI: I mean, today the match, nothing wrong. I mean, both player was play unbelievable. Nothing wrong. Just unlucky.  
  
  Q. The wrong result. You almost had it, didn't you?   
 NA LI: I mean, yeah, of course, I have two match point. But I can do nothing for these two match point.   
 I think also both player fighting a lot on the court. So, yeah.   
  
  Q. Was your mental strength there, determination, your famous drive?  
 NA LI: No, no, nothing.   
  
  Q. Has she got one of the best serves you've faced? Your coach said to me, She serves like a man.   
 NA LI: I mean, it is. I mean, start of the first point till the end of the match, every serve was like around 117 miles. I mean, this is impossible for the women.   
  
  Q. How different was it for you coming in here as the French Open champion for the first time, as a Grand Slam winner, obviously a lot more attention from China? Was that a difference here playing at Wimbledon?  
 NA LI: I didn't feel different. I didn't feel, like, pressure. I mean, only change is right now opponents see you different.   
 So everyone play against you, they feeling nothing to lose. So they can play best tennis on the court.   
 I mean, I don't think the player can stay same level like today. If like this, I mean, she's No. 1 in the world, yeah.  
  
  Q. Did the fact that your husband left halfway through the second set, did that affect you?   
 NA LI: I don't know where he going. So after I find him, I will tell you (laughter).   
  
  Q. Years from now, back in China, when you are an old woman...   
 NA LI: I'm not old. C'mon (laughter).   
  
  Q. Years from now, your friends say to you, How was your trip to Europe in 2011, what will you say to them?   
 NA LI: Good trip. Yeah, good experience.   
  
  Q. What are you looking forward to at this moment?  
 NA LI: Finish the press conference and go back to the hotel.  
  
  Q. And tomorrow?   
 NA LI: Tomorrow, go back to China. That's all.   
  
  Q. You're going back to China?  
 NA LI: Yeah, of course.   
  
  Q. What greeting do you want to have when you get there?  
 NA LI: I don't want anything. I just want to be with my friend, with my family, take totally rest, and ready for next tournament.   
  
  Q. What message are you taking back to China?  
 NA LI: No, I want to save my money, so I didn't want to send gifts back.   
  
  Q. In this country we get very excited every time Andy Murray plays at Wimbledon. Britain is a country of 60 million people. Can you tell us what it is like to carry the hopes of 700 million people back in China?  
 NA LI: I mean, right now I couldn't imagine what happen after I'm back to China. I mean, is tough to say, you know, because I know after win the French, you should do something with the fans.   
 But otherwise also I want to take time only for myself, just totally relax. So, you know, it's tough to say. But I think I will do the both.   
  
  Q. What lesson do you want the children of China to take from your adventures over the last weeks and months?  
 NA LI: I mean, everyone is different. I didn't want they copy from me. I mean, I would like to say I believe someday they can do even better from me, so they don't need to copy of me.   
  
  Q. There's a positive message for them, isn't there?  
 NA LI: Always positive.   
  
  Q. Do you expect a good reception when you go back to the airport?  
 NA LI: No. I mean, right now I didn't tell everyone. Don't write down in the newspaper. I just want me with my husband go back to hometown and take some time for recover.   
  
  Q. Are there lots more Grand Slam champions to come from China? Will you be the standard bearer for a long procession of Chinese champions from now on?  
 NA LI: Which means what?   
  
  Q. Will there be lots more Grand Slam champions out of China in tennis now, do you think?  
 NA LI: I wish. But, you know, always not easy. Like also I think now women's player doing a lot good job. But I wish one day the men can grow up also, yeah.   
  
  Q. Why is there such a difference between the men and the Chinese women?  
 NA LI: Women's always working so hard (laughter).   
  
  Q. What's the problem with the men? Lazy?   
 NA LI: Yeah, right, lazy.   
  
  Q. Are you telling the Chinese men to work harder?  
 NA LI: I mean, if someone tell them what they have to do is nothing. They have to think about what they have to do. You know, is much different.   
  
  Q. What do you like to do when you're not playing tennis? Do you like fashion? What do you like to do?  
 NA LI: Stay in the house with the family, with the friend, of course. Because if you always traveling out of the world, you never have time spend with the friend. So, yeah.   
 And also if not play tennis, of course I never think about tennis, yeah.   
  
  Q. But do you like shopping, going to theater, see movie?   
 NA LI: Of course like to shopping, but you have to make prize money first, right (laughter)?   
  
  Q. What do you like to shop?  
 NA LI: I think for the woman, everything. You bought a lot but never use. For just one second, you feeling, I like this one. Just bought.   
  
  Q. How did your Coach Mortensen help you the most, your coach?  
 NA LI: Help a lot. Yeah. Of course, we start Madrid. So, yeah, until Wimbledon we just working together like four tournament. I think it's not bad.   
 And he's nice guy also. He's give a lot positive energy for the team, yeah.   
  
  Q. Will you continue to work with him or don't you know?  
 NA LI: Why you ask about if I first continue? Continue, yeah.   
  
  Q. When you wake up at 3:00 in the morning and you remember this match today, are there going to be any moments where you think, If only I'd done that?   
 NA LI: I mean, match is over. It's finish. If you think, I mean, you couldn't go to France. Of course, I have think about next second or next moments to think about what I'm doing wrong on the court.   
 But after today, I don't even think about too much because now is my holiday, week off. So week off, just enjoy the day. I didn't even want to think about tennis.   
 But back to the tennis, yes, of course you have to focus every tournament.  
  
  Q. I hope you find your husband.   
 NA LI: I was totally control. Don't worry.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT