AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 15, 2011
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 D. HANTUCHOVA/N. Li
  7-6, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Obviously you had chances, especially in the first set.   
 NA LI: Yeah.  
  
  Q. What are your thoughts on the match?  
 NA LI: I mean, yeah, I have chance but I didn't catch it, so of course -- I mean, she's -- I think we play good match today and she's play well. I think I'm ready for Wimbledon.  
  
  Q. The match kind of ran away from you in the second set. Did you get tired?   
 NA LI: No. I mean, I was 3-1 up, and, you know, just like -- she just boom, boom, boom. Yeah, so I was feeling like -- I try. I tried to come back, but, you know, I mean, after lose the match, nothing to say. Yeah.   
  
  Q. What's the biggest thing that's changed in your life over the last week or so?  
 NA LI: I don't know yet, you know, because I didn't see the Internet. I didn't go back to China. I mean, maybe the people think I will change in life, but I never want to change my life.  
  
  Q. How are you received back in China?  
 NA LI: Oh, I can't tell you. After back to China, you know. Right now I don't know yet, because I don't know what plan they have.  
  
  Q. Obviously there will be a lot of attention on you. Do you welcome that attention, or would you prefer to be more private?  
 NA LI: For me, doesn't matter. I mean, I don't care it's like (indiscernible) or something. You just have to be yourself, play your tennis. I mean, you don't need to think about too much. Yeah.   
  
  Q. What are your thoughts on Wimbledon now that you've started playing the grass court season?   
 NA LI: Yeah, was a little bit different than the clay court, so, I mean, I still happy I play two matches in here. So a little bit used to have to get used to play the grass court.  
 So, yeah, still have three days until Wimbledon, so of course now hard working and prepare, ready for Wimbledon.  
  
  Q. How is China's tennis at the moment?   
 NA LI: I don't know. I didn't go back, you know.   
  
  Q. Well, you must have an idea of how well the country is doing.   
 NA LI: Really no idea, because I was like turn off my phone, I didn't see the Internet so nobody can contact with me.   
 Yeah, I think I will know after I back to China.  
  
  Q. Just generally, you know, is Chinese tennis...   
 NA LI: You can ask her. (Smiling.)  
  
  Q. Going into the French Open you said that you didn't even like clay and that maybe grass, you like grass. How do you feel about maybe the extra expectations from people and yourself going into Wimbledon?  
 NA LI: I mean, French Open is over. So I don't need to think about I'm doing in the French Open.  
 So now is grass court season, so I just ready for the Wimbledon. Doesn't matter lose first round or I come to the quarterfinal, semifinal. I mean, you just play your tennis. Yeah.   
  
  Q. You'll be seen as one of your favorites because of your Grand Slam record this year and you've already won a Grand Slam tournament. Do you like being one of the favorites or does it matter to you?  
 NA LI: Oh, this is tough. If you are famous, of course. You lose something, like you couldn't -- walking around, like many people come with you. But this is the life. You have to enjoy the life what you have now. Yeah.   
  
  Q. How did you start? How did you start to go from -- what was your very first experience of tennis?  
 NA LI: I think this question I was answer a thousand times. I was play badminton before and after I change to tennis. Yeah.   
  
  Q. Did you ever think you would reach the level you have reached?  
 NA LI: Oh, this is a dream, you know. So of course start the first day, I never think about I can win Grand Slam. But after like two or three years, if you really enjoy this sport -- and also, you have the goal for yourself. Yeah.  
  
  Q. Regarding a resurgence -- I know you can't speak for China, but generally in the Far East, do you feel there is a big interest, a swell of interest in the sport?  
 NA LI: I think now tennis in China can bigger and bigger. If all the China player have to do much more better or even more good, I think we can improve tennis in China a lot.  
  
  Q. It would be nice to have other players with you?  
 NA LI: No, never. I mean, I just sports, sportsman. So I didn't want to do --  
THE MODERATOR: No, no.  
  
  Q. No, I meant it would be nice if you had a few more Chinese girls with you at big tournaments.   
 NA LI: Yeah. The thing about -- this is the plan, also. Yeah, of course. I mean, you have chance, but, you know, for all the China player is tough. We need to get visa to everywhere. It's not easy to get a visa right now.   
 If I have the plan, but if the two girls didn't have visa, nothing can say or nothing can do. Have to plan like maybe half a year ago or so and see which big tournament they can come with me or have to see which two players can come with me.   
  
  Q. Have you ever had to miss a tournament because you haven't got the visa?  
 NA LI: I think before they have like -- like two years ago I was playing -- I was playing Birmingham. The tournament start Wednesday, and I was waiting visa in Paris for three weeks.   
 So I got a visa Tuesday afternoon. I mean, this is tough. So yeah. So I mean, many times -- many times like we just got visa before the tournament start. So then we have to fly, and, you know...   
  
  Q. Are you going to win Wimbledon?  
 NA LI: I wish. But it's tough, I know.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT