AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 13, 2011
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. How are you feeling about Wimbledon? Are you hoping for your third Grand Slam title -- or third final of the year?  
 NA LI: I mean, yeah, French Open is over. So now I prepare for Eastbourne of course and also Wimbledon. If you always think about what do you do and -- I mean, nothing happen. You have to think what do you have to do. So for me I was looking forward to Wimbledon now.   
  
  Q. Do you like playing on grass? Is it something you enjoy?  
 NA LI: I think not bad. Yeah. I mean, I always do well in Wimbledon, so...   
  
  Q. So you think you have the game for it?  
 NA LI: I'm ready for it. Yeah.   
  
  Q. How are you feeling now that Venus and Serena are back? It brought a bit of buzz to the tour.   
 NA LI: I mean, of course good for the fans. I think many fans was missed them already. And also, you know, I was so happy after injury they will come back. For the player always tough to injury and come back. You have to mentally so strong and then try to come back. So I was happy they are come back now.   
  
  Q. Did you do anything particularly special to celebrate winning the French Open?  
 NA LI: I didn't go back to Shanghai, no, so I was -- after Paris I go back to Munich to see the doctor. So turn off for three days for the -- I was turn off the phone for three days so nobody can find me anymore. (Laughter.)   
 I think because after I need time to calm down a little bit, because the French Open not last tournament before all of the year. So I have to prepare for the Wimbledon, for the next tournament.  
 Because I have like beginning of year after Melbourne, back to China, you know, so many thing come. I couldn't concentration on the court anymore.  
 So I didn't want do same mistake again.  
  
  Q. Is it difficult for you, the change from clay to grass, big change?  
 NA LI: I think was tough for every player. You have to do it. I mean, you couldn't say anything. Yeah.   
  
  Q. Did you receive messages from any special people after Paris, from any politicians or famous people in China?  
 NA LI: I mean, a lot of friends send text message, of course. And also Safina send me text message, Daniela send my text message, say congratulations. Most important is a lot of friends send me text messages and family, also. Yeah.   
  
  Q. Was your husband in Paris with you?  
 NA LI: Yeah.  
  
  Q. Because he coaches you, doesn't he? Or he's your playing partner, isn't he, your husband? Does he play?  
 NA LI: Yeah, because I mean, right now I have new coach.  
  
  Q. Oh, right.   
 NA LI: So he was no -- hitting partner, everything.   
  
  Q. You said you were going to have a chat with Michael Mortensen. Have you spoken or discussed what the relationship will be?  
 NA LI: I mean, after -- yeah, after Paris of course we have the talk, and he was so happy. Of course me, too. So now we still continue to work, you know. Yeah.   
  
  Q. Have you received any special awards for what you achieved in Paris from China, back home, do you know?  
 NA LI: No. I think because -- I mean, after Wimbledon I will go back to China. Yeah.   
  
  Q. But do you know if you're going to get any special awards in China?  
 NA LI: I don't know, because I was turn off the phone for three days. (Laughter.)  
 So for that three days, I didn't know any news, you know. So I didn't want come to the Internet, you see all the news, because I know during the time people a little bit crazy about the winner. (Laughter.)  
  
  Q. When you put the phone back on after three days, how many messages were there?  
 NA LI: You know, sometimes was funny, like if you turn off the phone, someone call you, but it was like turn off so nobody want contact you anymore. If they send me text, I would say, Okay, contact with my agent, you know.   
  
  Q. Do you think, now that you've got "Grand Slam champion" after your name, do you think players will kind of react differently to you? Does it give you something extra in the loom locker room or when you walk on court?  
 NA LI: Yeah. I mean, during like this week like so many players all, like so many congratulations for me. But I know it's tough, like during a tournament you couldn't think about any more on the clay court. Because now they change the surface, grass court already.  
 So of course, I mean, all players so friendly, but you have to think about -- you have to stand up again to think what you should have to do.   
  
  Q. Did you have a favorite Grand Slam that you always wanted to win? Was it the French?  
 NA LI: I think I can win Grand Slam but I never think I can win French Open, you know. Yeah, so that's why.  
 And next day I was wake up, I was asking my husband. He said, Real dream. I mean, after we come, still didn't believe I can win French Open. Yeah.  
  
  Q. Have you believed that you can win Wimbledon?  
 NA LI: You know, before I was think about, okay, maybe I can win like without French Open, you know. But yeah, just one week ago I win the French, so I would say like, What's going on? (Smiling.)  
  
  Q. Has it been hard for you to then focus on Wimbledon because of winning the French and all the emotions associated with that?  
 NA LI: No, so that's why I didn't go back to China because I still want to focus on China right now.  
 Yeah, I mean, like I say before, I didn't want to make mistake again, same like happen Melbourne. So also I know if I go back China would happen we're coming.   
 Yeah, I'm still on the tour, so I still want to focus on the match, on the tournament, and then to try the best. I mean, doesn't matter I will lose first round or whether I doing Wimbledon because I tried best already. Yeah.   
  
  Q. Was there big pressure on you to go home, to go back to China?  
 NA LI: No. I mean, no pressure for me. It was what I think. And also, I never -- I never want to change. I always do the same what I do before.  
  
  Q. In Paris you said your mother would not watch because she's too nervous.   
 NA LI: Uh-huh.  
  
  Q. And you had not spoken to her.   
 NA LI: Yeah.  
  
  Q. When you did speak to her, what happened?  
 NA LI: No, after tournament, I send text message. Yeah, she just asked me, Are you come back? I said, No, I not come back. I say, I will come back after Wimbledon. Okay.   
 Then after, she never send me text message again. (Laughter.)  
  
  Q. Did she see the match at all? I mean, did she watch it afterwards when she had heard you had won?  
 NA LI: I mean, of course I would think about she didn't watch the match, but of course many phone or text message to her.   
 I think she just know I was win the tournament. But how big, I don't think she know that.   
  
  Q. When you have some time, will you buy yourself a special reward or something for your husband maybe to celebrate winning?  
 NA LI: Ah, no, I think, because in Paris same day we come to China Consulate, have big party. I think that's all. Even make so many party, maybe next day I don't know who I am and what I'm doing. I didn't want to do that. Yeah.   
  
  Q. You said your husband's snoring was causing a problem for your sleeping. Have you sorted that problem out?  
 NA LI: I think now getting better. Now he still can sleep on the bed. I mean, if didn't work I was send him to the bathroom. (Laughter.)  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT