QATAR LADIES OPEN
February 21, 2011
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. How happy are you with your game since the Australian Open final?
 NA LI: For me, last year already, because Chinese New Year was the 3rd of February. So that mean right now start a new year. 
 For me, Australian Open is other year, so it passing already. Of course, it was exciting I can be in the final in the Australian Open, but I mean, you couldn't always think about how was I doing like last tournament or week before. So you have to looking forward, what you are doing right now.

 Q. What's your New Year's resolution, then? 
 NA LI: Just stay with my family, stay with my husband, family, four days, nothing to do, just eat, you know, like Christmas. Yeah. 

 Q. Any target that you set for the season?
 NA LI: Any what? 

 Q. Any target for this season? Any goals? 
 NA LI: Wow, yeah. After Australian Open I think I can win any tournament, but, you know, last week I just lost the first round. 
 Yeah, so, I mean, yeah, tennis not easy, so is not the sport like if whether you want to do, if you have to do like that.
 So, yeah, always have to do the hard working and even harder than before, because right now all the players see you as different. Yeah, I mean, of course I would like to win a lot matches, but yeah, try. 

 Q. You said the players see you as different. What about people in China? Do they see you as different? Is your life already different since Australia?
 NA LI: Yeah, because after Melbourne I was back for one week, back in China for one week, so only four days I was totally out of other people, only stay with family. I didn't know how was another Chinese people think about the tennis, think about me. But after Chinese New Year I was back to Beijing with some press conference, something. 
 Yeah, right now, you know, I think my husband was more famous than me, because we are like both walking a lot. Everybody think this is the husband for Li Na, and, oh, this is Li Na. 
 So, yeah, I mean, only myself walking alone, nobody see who I am, but if I walking with my husband, yeah, they know. So he's more famous than me. 

 Q. Does this put any extra pressure on you because you're now the torch bearer for Asian tennis?
 NA LI: I never feeling pressure. I mean, I don't know why you always -- I mean, not you. Maybe other people always ask the same question, why I should put pressure for myself? 
 I mean, I love tennis life, so I just enjoy to play. I never give myself any pressure. 

 Q. How far do you think you will go in this tournament?
 NA LI: How far? 

 Q. Yeah. 
 NA LI: I don't know how far I can do, but I always try my best. I mean, if you ask all the players, of course, everyone want to win tournament. This is the goal. But still have to like match by match, round by round, you never know what happen on the court, because everyone compete good player. Everyone can play good tennis, so always challenge for yourself. 

 Q. Are you scared about any names in the tournament?
 NA LI: I mean, I didn't even saw the draw. And also, if, okay, if I say I didn't like play this tournament, but the draw have to say I have to play, so I like it or I didn't like. I always follow the draw what I do.

 Q. Not about like or not, but when we go to play in life, sometimes our schedule, some players, Oh, this one I don't want to play against her. 
 NA LI: I mean, if you scare, you should didn't come to tennis life.

 Q. You don't want give me name? 
 NA LI: I never afraid of everyone, yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT