CHINA OPEN
October 7, 2010
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. LI/A. Kerber
  6-2, 6-0

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. My question is you beat her in two straight sets. Why do you feel like she was struggling? We could totally see that you had the overhand, and that you were just a better player than her, but how do you feel that what were her weaknesses compared to your strengths?
 NA LI: (Through translation.) Actually, I have played against this player before twice, and today it seems that she is not in very good form. I am not very used to her style of play. Her shot is very flat. 
 In the first set, at the very beginning I did not play quite well, but I made a little adjustment and quickly I find my form and my opponent seem to give up the match. With every shots she made they seemed to be out of the range. 
 Before I had played against this player in Birmingham, and I had won the match in three sets, and it was very close. Her style of play is very aggressive today, and I didn't think -- I don't think my opponent was in good form. 

 Q. (Through translation.) Today you seemed to have controlled your game throughout the match. Is that because you have reached the top 10 and both tactically and mentally you have changed a great deal? If that really is the case, is it due to the crucial points that you can always take these many because that you have good improve in mental aspect? 
 NA LI: (Through translation.) I don't think I have changed a great deal, and I think the change is the opinion of the general public and your journalists. 
 I think that I have been remaining calmer than before on court when I am playing matches, and I'm not rushing to things anymore, which used to be my weaknesses.

 Q. (Through translation.) In this year's China Open and also in the Madrid tennis competition you have done some charity work. You promise to donate your prize money. In Madrid you have reached the quarterfinal but lost to Peer. In this year's China Open, if you reach the quarterfinal will you be doing the same? 
 NA LI: (Through translation.) I lost to Peer in the quarterfinal in Madrid tennis competitions, which I should have won. If that were the case, I should be able to help more to the children with a bigger amount of prize money. 

 Q. (Through translation.) Can you comment on your next opponent, Sevastova or Petrova? And another question, this year you have reached the China Open quarterfinal which tied your best record here. How are you feeling now? 
 NA LI: (Through translation.) Actually I'm not feeling anything special and only a quarterfinal. The only difference is that this quarterfinal has been I have reached this quarterfinal at home, and this is the only premier tournament at end of the season, and I have achieved such good performance and through my hard work and take step-by-step attitude towards each matches.
 Regarding how much Li Na has come to know her opponent, actually, I happen to know her a great deal, and I need my coach Thomas to get some information for me in order to get a better understanding of my opponent. 

 Q. (Through translation.) Yesterday there were media reports talking about your focus has been turned to the development and training for the junior players. Does that imply that you have already reached your best and now you are going downhill?
 NA LI: (Through translation.) I don't think I'm right now going downhill in my professional career; otherwise I will not be continuing to fight on court and do all I can on court to play the matches.
 I don't think there is a big deal of difference no matter how old you are. It is always true that to see is a lot easier than to do. 

 Q. (Through translation.) Today you played the day match. Yesterday you played the evening match. Do you think that there is any difference when you play the day session and the evening session matches? Regarding the charity work, is this the motivation that encourages you to continue to fight on court, to play your best tennis on court? 
 NA LI: (Through translation.) Definitely I am more used to the Beijing weather than my opponent. After I came back from Tokyo and we start to practice a little bit, night session or evening session that I'm going to play will not be decided by me but by the tournament arrangement, and therefore, me, is not a big problem. 
 Regarding the amount of money that I will be donating for charity purpose, so far there is not exact number of money that I'm going to donate, and that will be clear until the end of the tournament. I will talk about it with my fund, and then we will see how we can help more children. 

 Q. (Through translation.) In 2000 you played your first WTA tournament in Shanghai and this year in China Open 2010 in Beijing. You are still playing. Through all these past 10 years, do you think there's any progress and changes about the tournament held by China? Second question: When you are playing the tournaments either at home or abroad, when you are talking with foreigners, how do you think about China's tournament? 
 NA LI: (Through translation.) Naturally, the tournament held in China and the tennis are progressing very well, and if it is not the case and the prize money and the level of the tennis tournament cannot be upgraded, nowadays the China Open has been upgraded to the crown jewel tournament. 
 That's a very important tournament around the world, so these are all the changes. We have been making a lot of progress not only in tournament but also in tournament of the tennis.
 As to the reply to the second question, fans in China nowadays have come to know a lot about etiquette of watching tennis matches, so this is probably due to the WTA, the establishment of WTA's office in Peking and with their great efforts put in the promotion of the Chinese professional tennis, and fans now will be able to enjoy watching the matches.
 When I was playing matches with other foreigners both at home and abroad, usually I will not be asking them such a serious questions like how do you think the Chinese tournaments? Usually we will be talking about very daily stuff. 

 Q. (Through translation.) Now the Chinese tennis association are going to make a new partnership for the ladies doubles team. What do you think the possibility of playing the ladies doubles? 
 NA LI: (Through translation.) I hate playing doubles. If you are playing the doubles, you have to have a good mind with your partner, and you also need a lot more extra efforts, because if you get done your singles matches and you have to wait for the doubles matches to come, now I have only play singles matches. If that is done, I can go home quickly. So that saves great deal of efforts.

 Q. How does the pressure playing in the China Open compare to playing a Grand Slam?
 NA LI: (Through translation.) I don't think there's any extra pressure, and they are all tennis tournaments. The only difference lies in the fact the titles of the tournament are a little bit different. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT