CHINA OPEN
October 5, 2010
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. LI/A. Kleybanova
  6-1, 6-4

 THE INTERPRETER: Questions, please. 

 Q. I actually have a question looking forward to the Asian Games. Could you talk to us a little bit whether or not it's a priority in your schedule? It's at the end of the season, it's a long season. Could you rate your chances and the chances of Team China?
 NA LI: (Through translation.) It all depends whether I will be qualified for the Doha year-end WTA finals. And if that will not be possible, I shall be going to Bali, which will be preparation for the upcoming Asian Games. 
 After the China Open, I'm going to see how my ranking will be. That will depend for the next step of my plan. 

 Q. You said last week that you weren't going to push yourself too hard at this tournament because you didn't really need the extra pressure. How did you do this evening? Do you think that the expectant crowd is going to spur you on regardless?
 NA LI: (Through translation.) I mean, on court, I do not wish to give my own pressure. Probably you misunderstood me. 
 I mean, I want to win. Whenever I step on the court, I wish to win, but only when sometimes I make a few unforced errors I will not put pressure on myself. I will try to remain calm and to get well prepared for the next point.

 Q. You have talked about remaining calm. When you hear the fans cheering your name in between games and sets, what does that do for your nerves? You said you try not to add pressure. Does that add any pressure or how do you remain calm in that situation?
 NA LI: (Through translation.) It certainly will not be the same. To play at home court will be quite a good feeling. 
 Even though the fans are holding the banners and cheering during the games and the sets, and for years I have been playing here I feel quite comfortable, and actually no nerves. For all these years I have been playing here, I have been really getting used to that atmosphere. 

 Q. I meant to ask, how are you feeling physically and mentally? A few of the top seeds have now gone, do you fancy your chances here?
 NA LI: (Through translation.) For me I believe I always have a chance. It doesn't matter who I play against, very high-ranked player, the top player, the ordinary player, even lower-ranked player, I will always be having good chance. The only problem will be that if I will be able to take the chance. 

 Q. (Through translation.) Would you simply evaluate the games, your forehand, your serve and in long rally and in all these three aspects, you played quite a while, and which in particular, in which particular aspect do you think that plays the most important role in winning the match? 
NA LI: (Through translation.) All these technical aspects played very effective roles, and in the entire game knowing how to use all these factors very effectively so that you will be able to win, only focus on one aspect like forehand, serve, or only the rally will not do. 

 Q. (Through translation.) In the old days when you were playing in the match and you did not actually think to have found your own game, and you always were feeling very angry with yourself or sometimes even lose temper, nowadays it seems the situation has been changed completely. Why? 
 NA LI: (Through translation.) Because now I have been getting older and I have become more mature and have a better understanding about match. 
 Even at times when I seem to be losing the match, I still try to control my own temper, to remain calm, because as I'm getting older, the chances of getting to play in the big tournaments will be less and less, so I will cherish every opportunity I play in every tournament. 
 That's why nowadays I'm having quite good results in those tournaments. So if I know all these things when I was 18, and then I think I will be a lot better.

 Q. (Through translation.) As for your first question, your coach said your serve should be as powerful as Serena Williams. And after the Australian Open, you have been trying to improve your serve. So far, is your coach satisfied with your serve?
 NA LI: (Through translation.) Naturally everybody can see that my serve has been improving a great deal, and yet still there's some room left for further improvement. 
 To the second question, after China Open, if the ranking will be getting very close for the qualification of the year and Doha final, and I shall be trying to get more chances to play even in Europe even with the wildcard, I will not simply give up these good chances. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT