SONY OPEN TENNIS
March 27, 2014
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. LI/D. Cibulkova
  7‑5, 2‑6, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   First final at one of these Premier tournaments.   Does it feel good?   I know you talked about being consistent at all of these big tournaments?
NA LI:   Yeah, pretty happy.   First time to be in final in Miami.
Today the match I think is special, is not only about technique because today is so windy, so cold.   I think more is about mentally, you know.   I think pretty strong.   Can stay on court.

Q.   Would a younger Li Na have gone crazy tonight, if it were two or three years ago, the way you would have handled the situation?
NA LI:   Yeah, for sure.   I don't know.   Maybe not all quiet in the room why I lose the match, you know.
But I don't think if you getting old is only a bad thing.   Also you can learn a lot.   You have got more experience.   Much better know about yourself.   Yeah. 

Q.   Are you using any really different tricks?   I know you talked about it this year, about how you have been able to keep your composure better.   Are you doing anything mentally different?
NA LI:   I started working with Carlos already, start like fitness technique, also mentally.   We was training almost like two years.

Q.   So now it's starting to... 
NA LI:   Yeah, now I think people can see a little bit, because beginning, you know, I try to do that, but not like huge big or huge change.
But now I think it change a little and everyone can see that.

Q.   Serena in the final?
NA LI:   Yeah.

Q.   Pretty good player. 
NA LI:   Yeah (smiling). 

Q.   What are your thoughts about going into that one?
NA LI:   Good challenge, I think.   Yeah, last time played her was in Championships, so three, four month already.
This time here really can see how was I improve for this three, four months, or very good challenge for me is I really happy I can play her or against her again.

Q.   Although the record perhaps against Serena is not so good, you have had a lot of matches that have been very close against her, particularly on hard courts.   Does that give you confidence going into this one?
NA LI:   You know, everyone would be confident if they come to the final, because at least they win a couple of matches.
So, yeah, I think for sure it's tough match, so we have to see who is play better on the court.

Q.   And your record now this season, 21 wins, 2 losses.   It's your best start to a season in your whole career in terms of the WTA Tour. 
NA LI:   Yeah.

Q.   Does that give you confidence?
NA LI:   Of course (smiling).   Because I think pretty strong, pretty strong also start 2014, so I wish it can continue, you know.

Q.   You haven't played that many of the other big players yet this year.   You haven't played Serena, Azarenka, Sharapova.   So do you feel ready to play one of those big ones tomorrow?
NA LI:   Of course.   I mean, even the Australian Open I was ready, you know.   Sometimes you never know (smiling).   Yeah.

Q.   You touched on the conditions. 
NA LI:   Yeah.

Q.   They were really tough tonight.   Rafa spoke about it in his press conference.   Just how difficult was it?   What was it specifically that was really hard?
NA LI:   I mean, because the windy is not only one way, you know.   Some day they change, some day so windy.   And also special, so many times I have to stop the serve because the windy I cannot serve.
And also chair umpire give me a warning, like I was like ‑‑she was like, Oh, I know it's windy but you have to‑‑ you're a little bit slow.
So I was like, Come on, it's windy.   I cannot serve. 
But, you know, I would like to say it's big windy, but it's for both player.   You cannot choice.   Only one thing is you have to take it and you still try to do your best.

Q.   And particularly in that final set toward the end, we saw you figure out how to play in the wind and you were giving yourself a big margin for error.   Was that a conscious decision to just be much more careful and play within the lines because the wind was so bad?
NA LI:   If I can have a choice, I will cross my finger, please, no wind in finals.   But if the windy coming, I will try to do same or even like more better.

Q.   No. 1 against No. 2. 
NA LI:   Yep.

Q.   What do you think of that?
NA LI:   Good match?   Good for tennis?   Good challenge?   Yep. 

Q.   You talked about Carlos, how he's really helped you in the last couple of years. 
NA LI:   Yeah.

Q.   Is there one particular thing, whether it be confidence or a particular shot?   What's the one thing that you feel now he's really helped you with?
NA LI:   I think mentally, really.   I think, you know, he has a lot experience for, like coaching, you know.   So also he was coaching a lot good player.
For me, because he is the first coach talked every match.   After every match we have to talk.
So this time for me is the worst ever, because I was a little bit scared to talk to him, you know.   But now used to, so getting better.   But still... 

Q.   I was watching you practice earlier before the match and there was a lot of talking. 
NA LI:   Yeah.

Q.   All the drills.   You're always talking with him. 
NA LI:   Uh‑huh.

Q.   A lot of smiling, as well.   You looked very happy.   Do you feel that about your game and about your personality now?   Do you feel happy in yourself?
NA LI:   I think when Carlos jump to my team I was feeling more relax, you know, more I can enjoy the tennis life.   I was not like stress or anymore.
Of course sometimes was a little bit but I think much, much better than before. 

Q.   I don't expect you to tell us what Carlos says about playing Serena.   Obviously he has his plans.   But does he have a lot to tell you about that?   Because obviously with Justine he prepared for her so many times and now with you too.   Does he have a lot of comments to make about tactics?
NA LI:   Of course.   I think we will talk about later.   Today already 1:00.   So pretty like long rest, and I think we will talk before practice.

Q.   But when you played her with Carlos in recent months, has he had a lot of insights and a lot of comments to make about that to you?
NA LI:   Yeah.   He has a lot.

Q.   Has he changed your way of seeing the matchup and seeing the match?
NA LI:   I think he has a very good idea, but sometimes I cannot follow (smiling).   Yeah, because, you know, if you come to the court, you know, how the team only can stay in the player box to supporting you, but sometimes I have the idea, also. 
So sometimes I was like against him a little bit, so make him a little bit sad. 

Q.   You don't use him for on‑court coaching very much. 
NA LI:   No.

Q.   Why is that?
NA LI:   I think I'm, how do you say, I'm strong enough or so I want to try to be myself on the court, because he already has a game plan before I come to the court, so I want to follow like game plan.   Doesn't matter how is the score, like in front or behind.
So I want to try to see if I can make for myself.

Q.   Do you think it's a sign of the stronger players who never use it?   Like Serena never uses on‑court coaching. 
NA LI:   I think if Carlos can speak Chinese, I think I will use him in coaching (smiling).   Yeah.

Q.   You said you hope that it's not cold and windy for the final. 
NA LI:   Yeah.

Q.   If it is like that, though, do you think that might help you against Serena?
NA LI:   Right now I'm not sure, because I think today she play also was pretty windy, so, you know, the condition, we cannot change.   Yeah. 

Q.   What's your relationship like with Serena?   Do you ever talk with her or have discussions with her much?
NA LI:   Yeah, we talk a little bit about nails.

Q.   Nails?
NA LI:   Yeah.   I think all the girls like that.   Yeah.

Q.   She gives you advice or you give her advice or how does it work?
NA LI:   Maybe we have different style, you know.   Yeah.   Sometimes tough to say. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT