WIMBLEDON
June 28, 2010
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. LI/A. Radwanska
  6-3, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. It looked quite simple out there for you. Did it feel comfortable and simple? 
 NA LI: I like that (smiling). 
 No, you know, before the match, I was be like, Oh, my God, because I lose her last year, same Court 18, same opponent. So I was walk from the locker room to the court. I feel like I should be win this match. I didn't want the same like last year, yeah. 

 Q. How is your form compared to the last time you got to the quarterfinals four years ago? 
 NA LI: Hmm, feel like same. I mean, both time was exciting, yeah. I mean, you can come, qualifying not easy. You have to win a lot matches, yeah. 

 Q. Are you able to sit down and watch the Sharapova/Williams match, or you're happy to go with the flow?
 NA LI: No. Maybe I go back to the hotel, relax, lie down on the sofa, relax. Take some soda or something, yeah. 
 I will not stay here. I just go back to the hotel. 

 Q. Will you watch it at the hotel? 
 NA LI: Yeah, watch on the TV, yeah. 

 Q. You've done very well on grass this year so far. Why is that? What is it about your game that helps you on this surface? 
 NA LI: I think I do pretty good every year (laughter). 
 I think my game was like - how you say - easy can win the grass court because I was play more fast and baseline, yeah. 

 Q. What have you done well this week and last week and in Birmingham, do you think? 
 NA LI: After I win in Birmingham, I was feeling more confident, more positive thinking on the grass court. But because my coach didn't come to Birmingham, so after I meet him, he was like, Just forget Birmingham. This much different tournament. 
 So every time, he always talk like. Every time he talk like, Forget, forget, forget that one. I was like, Okay. I couldn't forget. I played five rounds of match, win tournament. How I can forget that? But he always like, Forget. This is much different game. 

 Q. Is it very different? Do you find Wimbledon very different? Is the grass different?
 NA LI: I mean, first two days was a little bit different, because after Paris I was come to Birmingham, so you have to change clay court to the grass court. First two days was like, I was feeling, like, terrible, yeah. To serve was much different. And after that, I was feel like even comfortabler, yeah. 

 Q. And is Wimbledon very different from Birmingham? Do you find it different?
 NA LI: Yeah, I just follow the coach: forget Birmingham, focus Wimbledon.

 Q. Do you feel the expectations growing further as you go further into this tournament? 
 NA LI: I don't know yet. I mean, I stay here for three months already. You should ask them. They come from China (indicating the Chinese press). 

 Q. Do you feel like you're well enough to keep going?
 NA LI: Sure, I would like to keep going. I mean, I'm still in the tournament. I don't want to stop right now, yeah. 

 Q. Given that you beat Maria recently, would you prefer to play her next? You have a pretty good record against Serena, as well, recently and in Australia. 
 NA LI: Right now, I just watch their play first. And then, yeah, I mean, doesn't matter which player. Tomorrow the game for me was another challenge. So I just enjoyed play on the court. 
 I don't even think about win or lose. So, yeah, just play tennis, like easy. I don't need thinking too much, yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT