BARCLAYS DUBAI TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS WOMEN
February 17, 2010
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. LI/M. Bartoli
  3-6, 7-5, 6-0

 Q. Two days you had to play three-set matches, yesterday and today. So how is it like playing again today a difficult match? 
 NA LI: How was I feeling? 

 Q. Yeah, how was it?
 NA LI: I just came to the court to play. I can't say, "Yesterday I played three sets, can I have a day off?" It's not possible. So I just followed the tournament director. I just followed the schedule. If they say you play first match, I play first match. 
 I mean, there's no chance to say if I play a tough match, and I have a day off or play later, yeah. If they say I play second match, I just come to the court and play my game. That's all. 

 Q. Yesterday you said after the match that you felt tired after the match. Now how do you feel physically after a game of three sets? 
 NA LI: How I feeling after match? 

 Q. Yeah, after today's match. 
 NA LI: I'm feeling okay (laughing). Because I'm still in the tournament. I couldn't say I'm tired. I feel like die because I have a match tomorrow. Yeah, I have to focus on tomorrow's match.

 Q. Okay. Yesterday you were 3-love down in the third set. Today, again, you did really well in the last set. You won 6-love. I mean, what is the reason? You lifted your game? 
 NA LI: I was 5-2 down in the second. I mean, I never give up, so everyone can see. If I'm down or if I was 3-love up, I never give up. I was just playing my game. Maybe I have a chance because chair umpire she didn't say, game, set, match, so I still have a chance. 

 Q. So how about the next match now? You'll be playing Shahar Peer your next match? 
 NA LI: I mean, just play. No more opponent. Just play my game. Nothing special.

 Q. So any strategies you'll have against her? 
 NA LI: I just play my game. I mean nothing special, yeah. Just opponent. 

 Q. What is your next plan after this tournament? 
 NA LI: Next tournament? 

 Q. Tournament, yeah?
 NA LI: Kuala Lumpur. Yeah, because I was first year it would be like first time out of China play tournament is Kuala Lumpur, so they have tournament this year. So I want to go back and see how it's going because it's 40 years already.

 Q. How do you see the tournament here in Dubai, the tournament without the stars? Is it as usual or very bit less or high? 
 NA LI: No, it's high. Most of the top 20 players are here. And also they have good people working and good supervisor. And also I can say they have a good body guard, yeah, security everywhere. So I feel like safe. Not dangerous.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT