BARCLAYS DUBAI TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS WOMEN
February 16, 2010
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. LI/M. Martinez-Sanchez
  7-6, 2-6, 6-4 
   
  Q. So you must have been pleased with that win today?   
 NA LI: Yeah, I mean, it's a big win for me. I mean, I was 3-love down in the final set. She had a big chance, but I just hold on and then try to come back every point.   
  
  Q. What happened after the first set? You won the first set and then she seemed to take control?   
 NA LI: I mean, this was amazing for tennis, because that's why we have to play three sets. Yeah, because if I play well, she'll play a little bit bad. But if she played better, I would play bad.   
 So, yeah, I don't know. I will try to play the same like first set, but I mean she just controlled the whole set for second set.   
  
  Q. I think that's only the second match you've won here, isn't it?   
 NA LI: Yeah, you are right (laughing).   
  
  Q. Why do you think you haven't been successful here before?   
 NA LI: I really didn't know, because I would try this tournament same like the another tournament. I tried my positive. I tried to play my best tennis. But maybe this one is so strong, and every time my on opponent is just killing me (laughing), yeah.   
  
  Q. Are the conditions difficult?   
 NA LI: No, I think it was good.  
  
  Q. You like the heat?  
 NA LI: It was okay because it seemed like my hometown. So for me doesn't matter.  
  
  Q. Some of the players were saying the balls are very fast, but the court is slow, makes it difficult. Did you find that?   
 NA LI: I really didn't think about that, but sometimes I was feeling, yeah, here it was a little bit faster than Melbourne. Because after Melbourne, this was first tournament, so I was feeling a little bit fast. Maybe from the ball, yeah.   
  
  Q. You feel confident about your next match?   
 NA LI: No, just feeling tired. I need time for massage, and then think about next match.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT