AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 23, 2010
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. LI/D. Hantuchova
  7-5, 3-6, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
  
  Q. Two very close sets, but then you won the last set comparatively easy. Can you tell us how you won the match?   
 NA LI: Actually, after second set I was like -- because she go change room or something, so I have time to calm down and then to think about how I can win the point.   
 So, yeah, I have a lot of time to think. So I calm down, and then just play safe ball back.   
  
  Q. Are you playing as well as you did a couple years ago when you reached the fourth round?   
 NA LI: I forget, because I didn't play last year. So I couldn't remember. (Smiling.)  
  
  Q. But how do you assess your form? What do you think of your form now? Are you playing as well as you can, or is there a lot of improvement to come?   
 NA LI: Right now, I mean, I didn't think about too much because I just enjoy to play. I didn't have any defend point like this tournament. Like nothing to lose. Just play tennis and enjoy the time. That's all. Yeah.  
  
  Q. We don't know your opponent in the fourth round yet, but if it's Caroline, you just met her in Sydney. How do you see her as a player?  
 NA LI: Good player. Everyone know that. (Laughter.)  
  
  Q. What is she good at?  
 NA LI: I mean, she have fast feet. She can run in whole court, and also she always tough. So I watching her play this evening.  
  
  Q. Last week you played against her and lost the first set, down with a break in the second, and suddenly the match turned around. Do you think we'll see a match like that, like up and down? Why is it like that?   
 NA LI: Hopefully I didn't want to see that. I want to win easy. Yeah, but, I mean, you never know. We will see.   
  
  Q. What would be the key of the match?   
 NA LI: You mean last week?   
  
  Q. No, this week if you play against her again.   
 NA LI: I mean, I just enjoy to play. Nothing to lose. Yeah, play my best tennis. That's all. That's the key.  
  
  Q. It's a historic day for Chinese tennis here i believe making the fourth round here with Jie Zheng. You've become the first two Chinese players to advance to the fourth round of the same Grand Slam. What does this say about the development and improvement of Chinese tennis?  
 NA LI: Because I didn't play last year. If I play, I think they can come last year. (Laughter.)   
 I think pretty good. I mean, in China tennis, woman. Yeah, because we working so hard.   
 Yeah, we working so hard and also never give up every match. We just play, try to hold on the match. Then, yeah, step by step.  
  
  Q. Are you talking with Zheng during this process?  
 NA LI: Yeah, we are talking a lot. We can go like eat together and shopping together. We are not against, so we are friends. (Laughter.)  
  
  Q. Both you and Jie Zheng are married and have a coaching husband. So this relationship works pretty well for a woman's tennis player?   
 NA LI: I think they have different player. I don't know how is another player. For me, if my husband come with me, if I have something, I can just talk to him next second. We can communication fast. I think for me it was the best way. I don't know how is another player. Everyone is different. Yeah.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT