AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 21, 2010
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. Li/A. Szavay
  3-6, 7-5, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
  
  Q. You lost the first set there. Can you just tell us what went on in that first set, and how did you get yourself back into the game?  
 NA LI: Actually, I mean, she was play good in the first set, and also I miss a lot of ball. She didn't do anything. She just put the ball back on my court.   
 Then I just miss every single ball. Yeah, after that, I was also 3-1 down in the second set, so I think I couldn't do that. If I do, maybe I have to booking flight ticket for tomorrow.  
 So I was trying to calm down, and then I play back many ball as I can. Yeah.  
  
  Q. How satisfying is it to come back and win a match like that?  
 NA LI: No, I was shower and I still think, Is it real, because I couldn't believe because she had match point. No, it's real.  
  
  Q. So very satisfying?   
 NA LI: Yeah. Yeah.   
  
  Q. Just finally, your next opponent looks like Hantuchova. Tell us a little bit about that. What do you expect from her game?   
 NA LI: Tough to play because we are good friend. Of course, we have to fighting on the court, because opponent. We can say hello after or before, but I don't think she want to say hello on the court.  
 Yeah, I will fighting every point. Yeah.   
  
  Q. Do you feel that tennis is becoming more popular in China?   
 NA LI: Yeah, of course. Right now, I was feeling tennis much, much better than before. And also, now, children, they will choose tennis. Yeah.  
  
  Q. Why do they choose tennis now?   
 NA LI: Why?   
  
  Q. Why do you think more children are choosing to play it?   
 NA LI: Because tennis was fantastic sport. (Laughter.) Yeah. This is only I can say.  
 Yeah I mean, tennis is different than other sport. You don't need to wait for whole year and only for one tournament. If you lose today, okay. After three days I can play again. Also, every week you training for whole world and then you can see different city, different people. Then you can talk to friend every week. Yeah.   
 I think this was amazing for tennis. Yeah.   
  
  Q. You manage your own career now. You're not with the Chinese State Sport System. What difference has that made to you being able to manage your career and keep all your earnings, all that sort of thing?   
 NA LI: (Through translation.) Actually, I still was national team player. If they need me, I can take everything back to the national team.  
 Now, I mean, I would like to say thank you for Federation that gave me choice. Yeah, and I can choice my team. I also can choice the tournament. If I'm lazy, I can take a day or week off.   
 Yeah, but, I mean, I still want to say thank you for them giving me the chance have the choice. Yeah.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT