U.S. OPEN
September 8, 2009
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 K. CLIJSTERS/N. Li
  6-2, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. I was reading an article in The New York Times today about you and your time in New York and going to Chinatown. Did you see the article?  
 NA LI: I didn't saw.  
  
  Q. Can you describe what that experience has been like, participating in this tournament and playing so well and getting this far? Unfortunately I'm sure you're disappointed today, but has this been a good time for you?  
 NA LI: Yeah. I mean, I didn't want to think about match for today, but still I do well for the whole tournament. Good experience for me.   
 I mean, last time in qualifying three years ago, so these three years I try a lot. I was injury and then try and come back. I was feeling I do well in these three years.   
 You mean yesterday in Chinatown? I was feeling much fine, because I walking along but nobody know who I am. Yeah, I just talk. I mean, I was walking along, and I was feeling walking in China because everyone speak Chinese. They don't even speak English in Chinatown.   
 Also, I mean, you can order whenever you want the food. The food, the taxi, just like China.   
  
  Q. They did a good job? It was authentic?  
 NA LI: Yeah. I was thinking a lot yesterday. I think, Okay, if I win today, maybe tomorrow I go again. But maybe I fly back tomorrow already.  
  
  Q. Are you very disappointed with today's match? Are you very disappointed?  
 NA LI: Actually, I'm not thinking that I can lose like easy like today, because last time meeting I beat her. Feeling I can do much better today, but, I mean, you never know. Maybe it's day for her, not for me.  
  
  Q. Are you surprised how well she's playing, considering she's been away from the tour for so long and just coming back? Does it surprise you that a tour player can be away, come back, and play as well as she's playing?  
 NA LI: Actually, I saw she  
come back in her first tournament. I know she have high level, so, I mean, she's much stronger than other girls.   
 So if she come back, must be strong comeback. I didn't so surprised like she's so strong to come back. Yeah, I think it was normal for her.  
  
  Q. Who was your favorite player when you were becoming a professional, and why was she your favorite player?  
 NA LI: Agassi is my favorite player.   
  
  Q. Why? Why was he your favorite player?  
 NA LI: No, I mean, you can saw picture before. He was long hair, and he can do whatever he want.   
 And then I just feel like -- yeah, I just think maybe some day I was like him, like I can do whatever I want.  
  
  Q. You have long hair.   
 NA LI: Yeah, but I didn't have a good baseline like him. (laughter.)  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT