BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 17, 2009
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 V. ZVONAREVA/N. Li
  6-4, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Could you just talk about the match today?  
 NA LI: I think that I play like crazy. I shooting a lot on the tour. I mean, it was difficult for me, because the last match was in the like late in the day, but today I was playing first match. I mean, different degree.  
 And also, I mean, she played -- she was fighting every point, giving me a lot of pressure.  
  
  Q. You've been playing really well. You had a good run in Monterrey and everything. Is there any particular change you've made, or...   
 NA LI: I mean, I was pretty like up, down. Like I didn't like play one level on the whole match, so this was my next step, yeah.   
  
  Q. You think that's something that you've improved on, to be more consistent?  
 NA LI: Yeah. I mean, I was still happy. I play fourth round here. I just come back. Yeah, I was looking at run in Miami, whole season for this year.  
  
  Q. We didn't have a chance to talk to you after Amélie's match chance because it was too late. Can I ask you about that? Any comments of your match against Amélie? You played pretty good, I think.   
 NA LI: That's two days ago already. (laughter.) I mean, today, this match, I didn't want to talk like two days before. Yeah.   
  
  Q. When Charlie Pasarell trained coaches in Shanghai way back in 1967, the courts were all clay at that time. Are there any hard surface courts now in China?  
 NA LI: In China right now?   
  
  Q. Yes.   
 NA LI: The whole court is hardcourt.  
  
  Q. Everything is hardcourt?   
 NA LI: Yeah, maybe they changed 10 years already. Yeah.   
  
  Q. Next question, you had all the opportunities in both sets to come back and win. What happened to you when you had the ad?  
 NA LI: I mean, I want come back, but she didn't give me any chance.   
 I mean, this was like -- I mean, the match was like people against people. They always have, how do you say? Like if you go forward, and other people have to go backward. So this was same like match. Yeah.   
  
  Q. So you feel you played okay in the tiebreaker, she just didn't give you a chance? I mean, at 5-4 she just hit good shots?  
 NA LI: I mean, I still have chance, but I mean, I didn't hold her. I mean, she play -- she play well for this match, yeah.   
  
  Q. I would like to ask, is Hu Na setting up a camp down in China? Do you remember Hu Na? She played for China.   
 NA LI: I heard this name, but I don't know these people. She's much older than me. And also, we're not same age.   
 So maybe she's player and I'm only like one, two years old. I only heard her name from her, but I never saw the people. Yeah.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT