XXIX OLYMPIC GAMES
August 17, 2008
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  V. ZVONAREVA/N. Li
6-0, 7-5

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Would you comment on today's performance. In the second set you gave us some hope. Although you have lost this match, you made great progress for Chinese women's tennis. How do you feel about that? 
 NA LI: (Through translation.) Actually, I did not want to play this match. This match cannot bring me excitement. I cannot make myself to concentrate on this match. So I don't think it's a good result. 
 Compared with Russia, who you can see have the gold, silver and bronze medal in these games, I think we are still behind them. 

 Q. Generally speaking, China's tennis team has made great progress in the past several years. What is your opinion on the reasons behind such achievements and progress? 
 NA LI: (Through translation.) I think maybe because China has invested a lot in their tennis, and also the government has provided us a lot of opportunities to participate in professional matches, also some high-level competitions in the world. This has brought us great confidence and strengthened our response in playing a match. I think these are the main reasons. 

 Q. What signs have you seen during the Olympic tennis event of the growth of tennis in China as a result of having the Olympics here? 
 NA LI: (Through translation.) I think from the results of the Chinese players, you can see that China's tennis has made great progress. Besides, we also can see the public has attached more importance to tennis. 

 Q. It seems the top players have not participated in some major professional matches. What kind of motivation or inspiration do you find from such kind of a phenomenon? 
 NA LI: (Through translation.) I think as the top seeded player in the world, she must have some strengths, despite the fact she may not participate in a lot of big matches. 
 But many times she has entered into the semifinals and finals in major events. Generally speaking, I think she plays quite consistently. Sometimes I'm not very consistent. So I think that she is more confident than me. 

 Q. So far Chinese success in tennis has been with the women, not the men. Do you think it's only a matter of time before Chinese men will be successful or do you think top-level tennis among Chinese will remain with the women for a long time? 
 NA LI: (Through translation.) I think in the future maybe the Chinese men's team will play as well as the women's team if they have more opportunities or equal opportunities as the women's team. 

 Q. Can you explain what you mean by "more opportunities"? 
 NA LI: (Through translation.) The opportunity of participating in more professional matches in the world. 

 Q. What is your feeling of playing in your own country? Does it give you motivation or did it distract you? 
 NA LI: (Through translation.) I think playing at home, just like every court has two sides, it has both motivation and pressure. These two things coexist with each other. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT