XXIX OLYMPIC GAMES
August 16, 2008
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  D. SAFINA/N. Li
7-6, 7-5

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Today you actually had some chances where you could have won. What happened there? Although you lost this match, you still have a chance to get the bronze medal. That will be a record for the Chinese women's singles game. You will claim your No. 1 position in China. 
 NA LI: (Through translation.) Well, I've never thought about No. 1 in China because if you cannot do well in the world, then it's not as significant as to play well in only China. 
 For your first question, Safina played very well, although she played till 4 a.m. this morning. But she is very good and I respect that. 

 Q. You have become a professional player. This is different from specializing in the player's career. What is the difference? You are successful in becoming a professional player. How did Shan Jiang support you? 
 NA LI: (Through translation.) These two questions are very difficult to answer, because for me, I think it's the same, to be specialized and professional. I think professional is a higher level. 
 Why do you always ask questions about Shan Jiang? He's okay. 

 Q. I heard you shouting, Shut up, when you missed a smash. Does that bother you all the time or just on that special occasion? What do you think the people should do? How bothered have you been by it? 
 NA LI: (Through translation.) I believe that we need to let our emotions when we're not playing that well. 

 Q. Did the crowd affect you? Did the noise of the crowd, the fact you're not playing in a quiet atmosphere of a tennis match, if this bothers you or not? 
 NA LI: (Through translation.) I don't think it affects my performance because both people face the same crowd. If they are loud, we still face the same. 

 Q. Today you actually lost the match, but then you set a record for China. Are you satisfied with this result? How do you feel? What is your plan after the Olympic Games? 
 NA LI: (Through translation.) So although I lost today, I did my best. I believed in myself that I could have done it. Safina was just better. 
 This is almost the end of tennis in the Olympic Games. I'm not going to think about the Olympics any more. Of course, I have more plans later on. 

 Q. At the end of the match a lot of the fans actually said you lost because the crowd was too loud. How do you feel about that? Comparing the enthusiasm and the Olympic spirit, how do we improve the spectators? 
 NA LI: (Through translation.) Well, I cannot improve anyone. I can only change myself. 

 Q. Now that you're to go into the match for the bronze medal, how do you feel? What did your husband/coach contribute to that? 
 NA LI: (Through translation.) Of course, I'm going to thank him. I would also like to thank all the friends who have helped me. Although this game is a singles game, I don't think thanking one person is enough. I feel this is teamwork. So I would like to thank all the people who have helped me. 

 Q. Can you tell us your schedule after the Olympics. You had the goal of becoming top 15 in the world. How do you feel about that?
 NA LI: (Through translation.) Well, this year I only played six tournaments, plus the Olympics, which is only seven, which is quite a few because of my injuries. My plan is to get in better shape and then come back next year. 
 Following the Olympics, I have the US Open. 

 Q. Now that you have a chance to get a bronze medal, are you satisfied with the results or do you have some regrets, because you did have some chances? 
 NA LI: (Through translation.) I did have some chances, but I lost. I think I'm satisfied with the overall results. Maybe 20% regret. 

 Q. In the Olympics the court is hard court, which is the same as the US Open. Are you more confident in playing the US Open? What is your goal? 
 NA LI: (Through translation.) Well, although the court is the same, we have different environment, different climate. I cannot say I played well in the Olympics; I can do well in the US Open. Each competition is different. I'm not going to think about the Olympics once it's over. 

 Q. There have been one thousand questions about what is more important, the Olympic Games or the Grand Slams. Jie Zheng was in the semifinal of Wimbledon. You were in the semifinal here. For you, would it have been to be better in the semifinal in Wimbledon or here? 
 NA LI: (In English.) For me, I more prefer this year Olympic Games. But next year I more prefer for Wimbledon. 

 Q. From last year you had many injuries. You actually didn't play a lot of matches. Now that you have achieved a lot in the Beijing Olympics, what's the significance of that? 
 NA LI: (Through translation.) I didn't feel good after the Wimbledon from last year. I had injuries. I had surgery in Germany. So after the injury, I really, really feel I should thank all the people who have helped me and who cared about me. I really want to thank them. I was doing surgery for three months in Germany. My husband really helped me because we were in a foreign country without help. We were together. So I really need to thank him because I had a bad temper, and he's always tolerant (tearing up). 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT