XXIX OLYMPIC GAMES
August 14, 2008
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  N. LI/V. Williams
7-5, 7-5

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. In your play against Venus, it seems you broke two of her service games. Her service is very quick. Have you ever considered how to break her service games before? 
 NA LI: (Through translation.) Actually I have never played against her before. I only watched the video of her playing. It seems that her ball is very heavy. So this morning I asked one of my male colleagues to play with me and try to imitate her service. 
 At the beginning I'm a little bit afraid of her service because all her balls come into my body. But I told myself that I shouldn't care too much about that. So later on I became better and better. 

 Q. Since you are into the semifinals, have you ever considered how to play against Safina or Jankovic? 
 NA LI: (Through translation.) Since they haven't finished, I don't know what kind of skills or techniques I should apply against her. 

 Q. Do you have any expectations on winning what kind of medals? 
 NA LI: (Through translation.) Since this is my first Olympic Games, I will see how far I can go. I do not think too much about my expectation on the medals. 

 Q. Have you ever changed your state of mind after winning this quarterfinal? 
 NA LI: (Through translation.) No, I haven't changed. 

 Q. What do you think is the turning point of today? 
 NA LI: (Through translation.) At the beginning I wasn't adapting to her serve. Her serve was too quick. This caused me problems. At the beginning I wanted to receive her serve well. That led to my faults in receiving her serve. 
 Later on, I changed my techniques and it became better and better. 

 Q. After finishing the match, the crowd was very excited and screamed your name. What kind of feelings did you have at that moment? 
 NA LI: (Through translation.) Actually I didn't hear. I didn't hear exactly what they are screaming about. I tried to find out where my friends were. 

 Q. Does it mean that today's victory will help you to enhance your confidence in your future matches against the top-seeded players in the world? Will it have any effect on your confidence in the US Open? 
 NA LI: (Through translation.) We can see tennis matches happening every week. Today's victory doesn't mean that you will win tomorrow or in the future. So it always changes. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT