XXIX OLYMPIC GAMES
August 13, 2008
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  N. LI/K. Kanepi  
4-6, 6-2, 6-0  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Could you make a brief comment on your match today. It seems you did not play well in the first set.   
 NA LI: (Through translation.) Actually, I have less understanding of the opponent. It is said that the opponent's ball is very heavy. There is some gaps between my imagination and the reality.   
 Maybe because I want to win too much, that led to my loss in the first set. In the second set, I tried to reduce the faults and tried to find the opportunities to attack.   
  
  Q. Could you make a comment on your state. You know now you have entered into the top eight. In the next round, you will meet Venus Williams. We all know she is a very tough opponent. Do you think your form right now can support you to go farther?   
 NA LI: (Through translation.) I hope I can stick till the last round and try to win the game step by step. We all know that Venus is a very good player. It is really hard to predict what will happen next.   
 But I will try my best tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Do you know which athletes or which sport teams won the gold medals on the Chinese team in the Olympic Games?   
 NA LI: (Through translation.) Actually, there is no TV in the village of the Olympics, so I don't know which team or which athletes has won a gold medal. I can only get the message from the telecommunication company. They have sent me a lot of messages on who has won the gold medals.   
  
  Q. Who has impressed you most as far as the athletes are concerned?   
 NA LI: (Through translation.) I cannot watch the TV, so I cannot tell.   
  
  Q. What is your physical state now? Has your injury affected your preparation for tomorrow's match?   
 NA LI: (Through translation.) From what I have performed today, you may know my physical conditions. As to tomorrow's match, I will try my best. So it's really hard to say what will be the result.   
  
  Q. What are your feelings of the differences between the Olympic Games and other international games?   
 NA LI: (Through translation.) We all know tennis is an individual sport, but in the Olympic Games, it needs the teamwork. Behind me I have a lot of supporters such as nutritionists, coaches, even the personnel responsible for collecting the information. All kinds of people are behind me to help me to win the match.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT