XXIX OLYMPIC GAMES
August 12, 2008
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  N. LI/A. Morita   
6-2, 7-5  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. In the second set, the score was 4-1, then became 5-All. What happened?   
 NA LI: (Through translation.) Actually I kind of relaxed myself and didn't do very well on the returns.   
  
  Q. Actually we finished very late yesterday, now today you had this very tough match. Did that have an impact on your physical strength?   
 NA LI: (Through translation.) I think it will be okay for me because I only played singles, not doubles. But the opponent tomorrow will be a new one. I never met her before, so I'll just try to do my best.   
  
  Q. What did you get from Mr. Jiang Shan technically and mentally? What kind of plan after these Olympics for you?   
 NA LI: (Through translation) Jiang Shan is actually my coach and husband. We were coach and teammates at work, but husband and wife in our life.   
 Before the Olympics, we actually hoped to become a seeded player for this Olympics, but we didn't make it because of my injuries. Now I have recovered quite well and am in my best form. So I try to do my best in the next half year and we'll do it again next year.   
  
  Q. What difference do you think between Wimbledon and the Olympics?   
 NA LI: (Through translation.) Well, one is lawn court and one is hard court.   
  
  Q. How excited are you in Wimbledon and Olympics?   
 NA LI: (Through translation.) Actually yesterday I was quite excited. I only go to sleep at like 3:00. Because yesterday I was against a very strong opponent, my success boosted my confidence a lot. But I'm not excited today.   
 One major difference is also the Olympics now is held in China, in my home.   
  
  Q. What's your plan for the next step? Perhaps you will only meet Serena Williams in the quarterfinals, and the opponents tomorrow might not be that strong.   
 NA LI: (Through translation.) I think we still have to wait until tomorrow to find out. Their rankings are actually higher than me.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT