SONY OPEN TENNIS
March 24, 2014
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. LI/C. Suarez Navarro
  6‑0, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Pretty good match today?  
NA LI:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   How are you feeling?  
NA LI:   Pretty good.   I think I was waiting for long match.   I was waiting for Radwanska match.   End of second set I already go warming up in the gym, and suddenly they start final set.   I was like, Okay, wait.  
Today I think I was play pretty well.   I think because maybe my husband hitting ball looks like pretty similar like Navarro, you know.   So a little bit topspin, one‑hand backhand.  
But the score today, I was a little bit surprised, because last time I meet her was like long, tough match.  
   
 Q.   Did you see the end of the Radwanska second set where she broke the racquet?  
NA LI:   No.  
   
 Q.   She smashed the racquet.   
NA LI:   Wow.   So she have to pay for prize money, right?   
   
 Q.   What was it like being on the smaller court today?  
NA LI:   I mean, the schedule I cannot change, so only I can do is follow the schedule.   Doesn't matter if like small court or stadium court, you always have to play against opponent.  
So this is no option to change.  
   
 Q.   And also like a bunch of the women's matches today were not on TV.   There were no cameras for your match or for a few of the other matches on that court, but all the men's matches were on TV.   What do you think about that?  
NA LI:   Yeah, because yesterday ‑‑no, two days ago ‑‑ they tell me, yeah, because they have a different program about men and woman.   
So for us, we cannot change anything.   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Any difference from playing here than when you won in Australia?  
NA LI:   I think every tournament is different, you know.   You cannot prefer, say, Oh, here is exactly the same.   Different country, different people.   
Of course if like same hard court but the court still like some court slow, some court fast.  
Everything is different.   And temperature, everything.  
   
 Q.   Do you prefer to play at night?   Because last day you played day and the match was so difficult, but tonight...   
NA LI:   Also different opponent.   You know, you cannot say.  
Normally I would like to play on day, because if play 11:00, 11:00 on the court.   After finish, it's finished.   You don't have to like waiting for long day, you know, like today.  
I was play fourth match, but I come to court already like 7:00, around 7:00‑something.   So I have to waiting for long day.   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Next opponent is either Wozniacki or Lepchenko.   
NA LI:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   What do you remember about that match against Wozniacki in Australia, the semifinal?   
NA LI:   Yeah, I was match point down, right?   I saved match point?   
Well, both was already in a quarterfinal.   Always, how do you say, for sure is not easy match.   But they still play now, so, yeah, my coach was see some games to get some information, because already couple years I didn't play with Caroline.  
So I need to get some information.   Yeah.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT