MEDIBANK INTERNATIONAL
January 11, 2007
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Sorry about the loss, but what a perfect preparation for Melbourne, heat and a long match.   
 LI NA:  Yeah, the weather was so hard for today.  I mean, after first set and second set I was feeling like -- I don't know how you call it, like lose something.  So we have ten minutes for break.  Sitting in the locker room, I think, wow, how do I play the third set because it was such hot weather.   
  
  Q.  How long does it take you to recover from a match like that?   
 LI NA:  Oh, I'm leaving tomorrow for Melbourne, so maybe tomorrow off and after tomorrow try a little bit because maybe I'll play Monday in Melbourne, so only one day off.   
  
  Q.  Your ground strokes are spectacular.  Are there other areas of your game that you want to raise to the same level as your ground strokes?   
 LI NA:  I will try to come to the net.  I try this year, but it feels okay because I tried the first match, and second match, third match, for me feels okay.  I need work on that.   
  
  Q.  Are your ground strokes your strength of your game, the best part of your game?   
 LI NA:  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about your chances at the Australian Open?  How do you feel about it?   
 LI NA:  For me last year I lose first round to Serena Williams.  This year I want to try the best because this year I was a seed, so maybe first round, second round is a little bit easier, but I'm not sure.  Everyone is tough, so I just try the best.   
  
  Q.  How much confidence did you get from Wimbledon, the quarter final?   
 LI NA:  Nothing because after Wimbledon I was back because another two girls win the Wimbledon doubles, so nothing for me, only for them (laughter).   
  
  Q.  There's four Chinese women in the top 100.  Do you think the sport after Beijing will continue to stay popular in China?   
 LI NA:  I think so because, I mean, now is much better than a long time ago because now in China they have a lot of good players, more young players coming.  This year four young girls coming to the Australian Open.   
  
  Q.  Who do you think will win the women's singles in Melbourne, the women's final, apart from yourself, of course?   
 LI NA:  I don't know.  This is a tough question.   
  
  Q.  Who do you like -- who's game do you like?  You just played Kim.   
 LI NA:  She's nice, yeah, I like her.  Everyone has a chance.  I don't know.   
  
  Q.  There's no Justine here, no No. 1, so the field might -- do you think field is open a little bit more without Justine here?   
 LI NA:  I don't know how you say that, sorry.  I don't know.   
  
  Q.  Do you like playing in the heat?  Does the heat bother you too much playing, the sun, the hot?   
 LI NA:  No, I don't like it, no.  But I know I need to train for this hot weather because also Melbourne has hot weather.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT