WIMBLEDON
July 4, 2006
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  Q.  How was the impression of the Centre Court of Wimbledon?   
 NA LI:  I haven't been paying a great attention to that at all because I just went there and play the game.   
  
  Q.  You were not a little bit impressed about the crowd and the atmosphere and stuff like that?   
 NA LI:  Because I think if I put hundred percent concentration on playing probably I wouldn't have paid attention to that.   
  
  Q.  You don't appear to get nervous on big points.  You play very strong mentally.  This whole experience has to be fairly new for you.  Can you comment on how you're able to keep your focus and how you fight against nerves.   
 NA LI:  Actually, I was very nervous.  I think for those kind of level of match, for games, it will be for everyone will be very nervous.  But no matter how nervous you are, you just have to focus on what you are doing.   
  
  Q.  Did you expect to do this well, to get to the quarters?   
 NA LI:  It's kind of expectation for a long time.  But this time I kind of had played my level.  Eventually I have got what my expectation to be done.   
  
  Q.  Was it your dream to play on Centre Court when you were training as a youngster to come into tennis?   
 NA LI:  I think for every tennis player, this is a dream.  It's a common dream for everyone.   
  
  Q.  Which aspects of your game do you think you have to improve to reach that level to be on the top like Kim Clijsters or Justine Henin-Hardenne?   
 NA LI:  I have to consult this aspect with my coach.   
  
  Q.  Coming from a culture that's so different than this one, do you think that was an advantage or disadvantage to you?  Did it help you here at the tournament, or did it work against you?   
 NA LI:  I think it fine for me because we played almost every week to different locations around the world, so I think this is not major problem for me.   
  
  Q.  There's been a lot of talk about equality in prize money, men and women.  What is your take on that?   
 NA LI:  As for me, I'm satisfied because I'm a female.  I'm happy with the more money invest on me.  I don't really mind what's going on for the male side.   
  
  Q.  Where are you going to answer by yourself without a translator?   
 NA LI:  It's not really good idea.   
  
  Q.  A lot of people have been talking about the rise of female Chinese players.  We've seen lots of young Russian players here take over in recent years.  How many Chinese players do you think will perhaps be in the finals here in a year's time or in five years' time or even in ten years' time?   
 NA LI:  It cannot be decide by me.   
  
  Q.  Do you think that perhaps the Chinese can have as great an impact one day as the Russians have had?   
 NA LI:  I think, yes, should be.   
  
  Q.  You will travel whole year as a professional tennis player.  What kind of difficulties you found in the tour, for example, language or food?  You go to Chinese restaurant?   
 NA LI:  I feel fine for those two aspects you mentioned.  Like food, most of us, we can almost adjust ourself to eat our food.   
 And for the language, most of the foreigners, they know that as a Chinese, we don't speak their language.  Most of them will be very understandable to use kind of body language to get us to we understand.   
  
  Q.  Will you get a special bonus for getting to the Wimbledon quarterfinals?   
 NA LI:  No.   
 (In English) If you pay me, yes.  If you can give me something, I can get (smiling).   
 THE MODERATOR:  And you got your answer in English, too.   
  
  Q.  Do you have any family who have come over to see you this week?  Have they come over to see you or have you been in touch with them?   
 NA LI:  It's quite rare for Chinese players to have family to be with them, you know, in a match.   
  
  Q.  (Through translation) The journalists have been talking about your playing style, its beginning slowly.  Like yesterday's match, you started slowly but caught up by the second set.  You are a player that gets into the situation a bit slower than other players.   
 THE INTERPRETER:  Her answer was she doesn't really thinks exactly agree with the media.  She thinks she's moderate player.   
  
  Q.  (Through translation.) You've been playing with those very high-ranking players, especially the first ten players.  Were you very nervous because you got a double-fault in your service at the beginning of the match.  Does that mean you were very, very nervous?   
 THE INTERPRETER:  She said no, double-fault means nervous.  But what if I serve an ace, does that mean I was not nervous?   
 Her answer was she doesn't think she was nervous.  But only she was nervous when before she was led to the playing ground.   
  
  Q.  Which tennis player do you most admire, past or present?   
 NA LI:  Agassi.  Andre Agassi.   
  
  Q.  Can you elaborate on why?   
 NA LI:  I think so far he is the best player of that baseline player.  Because she is a baseline player as well, that's why she think Andre Agassi is a good player, admire play.   
  
  Q.  Will you play Fed Cup next week?  If so, what is your expectation?  What is your comment on the Fed Cup held in Beijing next week?   
 NA LI:  Because I expect to win.  Of course I expect I can win in that event because this is the first time for China, for Chinese national team, to be -- go that further.  Plus, I have participate in this game, of course my expectation will be to winning.   
 However, Germany is not so big team, so we still have a lot of thing to do, a lot of work to do.  There is some of player in the Germany team is before the 10th of the world ranking.  But, however, in all, I can't just say anything before the match starts because nobody knows what will happening after match starts.   
  
  Q.  You mentioned Andre Agassi.  What about the women's tour, is there a player that can serve as a reference for you?   
 NA LI:  (In English) Lindsay, Lindsay Davenport.   
  
  Q.  (Through translation.) How many times have you been play with Clijsters before?   
 NA LI:  This is the second time I'm playing with her.   
  
  Q.  (Through translation.) During your second set when you played with Miss Clijsters, you were Love-2, 40 behind.  At your second service, your service was on the line.  But the side referee just called the ball out.  At that point, Clijsters, she was very honest and she thought the ball was on line.  What do you think about the personality of Miss Clijsters from that?   
 NA LI:  Actually, I was talking with her already in the changing room.  You know, as women, we always love to talk about things.   
  
  Q.  Gossip.   
 NA LI:  Gossip, chatting, gossip, that kind of thing, yes.   
  
  Q.  (Through translation.)  So are you now a friend with Miss Clijsters?   
 NA LI:  Not really because she's in a more higher level than us.  We have different changing room, and normally higher players will not get along with us.   
  
  Q.  You seem very self-controlled and cool on a tennis court.  Do you ever use bad language or throw a racquet or make a commotion?   
 NA LI:  Regarding about the bad language, I probably will only curse myself, using the bad language.  I did try to slap the matt, but I didn't try any more because if it's broken, I have to change another one to play.  So I stop doing that.   
  
  Q.  (Through translation.) Overall, your performance today was very well, you played very well.  Did you expect to go further before the match started?   
 THE INTERPRETER:  She said, Why you put me this very tough question?    
  
  Q.  That's the answer?   
 THE MODERATOR:  No further answer?   
 NA LI:  Of course I expect to win because this is a common expectation for every players.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT