WIMBLEDON
July 3, 2006
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 Q.  Why did you think you won today, and why the sudden turnaround? 
 NA LI:  There was no solution for any match before the match finished. 

 Q.  Obviously, you've made history for China.  Can you talk about how it feels. 
 NA LI:  I'm proud of myself and I'm very proud for my country, as well.  Especially for this is the first time I'm in this match and go that further.  I'm very proud for that. 
 Although, the first set I lost, but anyway, I'm proud of what I've got. 

 Q.  What does this mean for Chinese tennis back home? 
 NA LI:  It represents the women's tennis in China will getting better and better. 

 Q.  Several Chinese players have trained with Alan Ma.  Are you one of those players? 
 NA LI:  (In English.)  Never. 

 Q.  Do we have it straightened out what her first name is? 
 NA LI:  (In English.)  Na. 

 Q.  Why did you win today?  What was the reason that you won today? 
 NA LI:  There is no reason for winning a match. 

 Q.  Was it because of your serve or because she fell apart, that you were concentrating better?  There are reasons why you beat somebody. 
 NA LI:  I don't know how to answer your question. 

 Q.  Where do you train now?  Do you train with other players? 
 NA LI:  I'm belonging to the national team.  Normally we will train together as a national team.  If out of match, if we're not in match, we'll be training in Beijing or Guangzhou. 

 Q.  If you had to say, when do you think a Chinese player will first win a Grand Slam? 
 NA LI:  I don't know, but I think it takes time gradually step by step. 

 Q.  What are your first memories of Wimbledon?  How does your reality compare with what you expected? 
 NA LI:  The first impression of Wimbledon gave to me was from the video I was watching for tennis players, playing the video.  It was so distant to me at that time.  It was so far away from me. 
 The senior players, Chinese players, their best step was going to the third round.  When I was in the ranking of 30 something, I thought it was not possible for me to have reached that far. 

 Q.  What kind of influence do the Olympic Games in 2008 have on the rise of Chinese tennis players? 
 NA LI:  I personally think this is a totally different match with Olympic Games. 

 Q.  Even though he's American, has Michael Chang had any impact on your life as a tennis player? 
 NA LI:  As a Chinese player, Michael Chang I think has influenced every single Chinese Asian people, especially he play that very, very well. 

 Q.  Do you feel like you are a pioneer, that you are opening a new chapter in tennis history? 
 NA LI:  I'm all right because before me, there are two doubles players, two pairs of doubles players, that got to a similar result. 

 Q.  What aspect of your game are you happiest with, and what aspect do you feel needs the most improvement before the quarterfinals? 
 NA LI:  The most satisfactory aspect for me is where I am now because it's out of my expectation I can go that far. 
 For the rest of your question, I don't know. 

 Q.  Which aspect are you happy with?  Are you happy with your serve at the moment, or do you feel that needs improvement? 
 NA LI:  I think my serve is better. 

 Q.  Are you aware of how this is playing out in the newspapers and media back home?  Would you have been more famous if you had stuck with badminton? 
 NA LI:  Probably I would be a champion, a world champion, if I played badminton. 

 Q.  About how it plays out in the papers back home? 
 NA LI:  It's all those people from the Chinese media (pointing to the audience). 

 Q.  A question about the Chinese men, why they're not doing as well as the women.  I'm sure you've been asked that before, but just to let us know, if you wouldn't mind. 
 NA LI:  I think more man in the world are playing tennis than woman in population.  That's why I think they are in more strong competitions, situation, than woman. 
 Plus our government will invest more capital investment on woman's playing. 

 Q.  Why is that? 
 NA LI:  Because woman has won the title of Olympic tennis and another title, very significant title. 

 Q.  Have you ever met Michael Chang or had the opportunity to meet Michael Chang or do you have friends that have met him? 
 NA LI:  No, none of them. 

 Q.  Have you spoken to members of your family at home to get some idea of the reaction in China to your success? 
 NA LI:  I haven't had contact with my family yet.  But lots of my friends back in China have sent me the text messages to congratulate me. 

 Q.  What do you like the most about London and what do you miss the most about China? 
 NA LI:  I haven't seen London yet because I just come simply playing the game.  But I've heard from friends that London is great. 
 Regarding about China, the most thing I miss is my family. 

 Q.  Do you ever dream of holding the Wimbledon trophy on the last day and winning this tournament? 
 NA LI:  I've had this kind of dream, but I have to drop it because the more you expect, probably in return you have more disappointment.  I have to back to the reality. 

 Q.  Are you surprised there are no Americans in the quarterfinals, and we have the first Chinese?  Any thoughts on that that you might have? 
 NA LI:  I haven't thought that much.  I'm just quite pleased at the stage where I am now. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT