BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 11, 2014
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. LI/A. Wozniak
  6‑1, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   What do you have to say to your fans in China?
NA LI:   You know, I think all the match I feeling pretty good except the last game.   (Smiling). 
The funny thing is beginning of the game I was feeling tight, nervous, and then I was feeling like what's going on?   Why can't I finish the match? 
But, how do you say, she never give up so she try to defend every point.   Yeah.   It's a little bit tedious in the last game.

Q.   Did you talk to her after? 
NA LI:   No.   No, because I didn't see her after.   So I even didn't shower.   I come to the press conference.

Q.   And we appreciate that. 
NA LI:   Yeah (smiling). 

Q.   Is 11 a lucky number in Chinese numerology?   11 match points?
NA LI:   Oh, I have 11?   Wow.   Yeah, she's pretty good.   She save a lot of match points.   Only I can say.

Q.   10. 
NA LI:   So how many double faults I make?   Four? 

Q.   Nine. 
NA LI:   I talk about this game.   Four?   Okay. 

Q.   But it was a win, so that's a positive thing.   You're into the quarterfinals. 
NA LI:   Yes.   At least I'm still in tournament, you know.   At least now I still can smell on this press conference.   I think if I lose I still can, but of course feeling a little bit different.   Yeah.

Q.   Lots of challenges, also, Hawk‑Eye challenges in that last game.   How did you stay focused?   You were definitely, at least from what we saw, robbed on that one call she called a replay on.   How did you stay focused and ignore what was going on?
NA LI:   That point I was really, how do you say, I was really angry because I saw I win the point.   But suddenly I heard, Replay.   I was like, Replay?   What are you talking about?   Chair umpire says the linesman call so late.   I say, No, he call right away.
Anyway, I was turn around to see my team.   My team, everyone was like, they didn't even know what happen.   The coach was like, Calm down, calm down.   I was like, How can I calm down?   And also especially the second point nobody call the point was out.
But at least I have good eye or I still keep it for challenging.   If I didn't have challenging anymore I cannot have a chance.

Q.   I know you can't do anything about that point now, but will you speak to the supervisor?
NA LI:   I will speak to Laura.   Just right away come to press conference because she say‑‑ she only watch her TV.   She didn't know exactly when the linesman was calling out and what happened. 
So maybe if I have chance I try to talk to Tony.   I think Tony was outside.   So I ask her, How they make the point to call the replay or I win the point.   I have to know exactly the rule what happened.   Yeah. 

Q.   You're playing Dominika Cibulkova, a familiar opponent.   Good memories of your last match.   Talk about that matchup. 
NA LI:   Yeah, last win didn't mean anything because I saw she play well here.   I know she was like, how do you say, hitter, and especially on this court you cannot control.   The ball is everywhere.   So for me always tough match play against her.
We have to see who was play better on court for next round.

Q.   Would you prefer to play that match during the day or at night?
NA LI:   If I say that, you can put pressure to the tournament? 

Q.   I think you can because you're the top seed.   You have more influence than I do. 
NA LI:   Play day, please (Laughter.) 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT