QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 13, 2014
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







P. CETKOVSKA/N. Li
  7‑6, 2‑6, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You turned that match around quite well from what looked like a difficult position in the second set, and then at the end it slipped away.   Did you get tired, or what happened?
NA LI:   I think this is normal, you know.   I still feeling I think even in final set you still have a lot of chance, but I can hang in there. 
Yeah, I think today she was play well.   I don't think I was playing so bad.   Maybe sometimes is like, how do you say, the wrong choice or wrong ‑‑yeah, the wrong choice make me lose a lot of points, important points. 

Q.   There is still a bit of wind.   Does that make it difficult for a player of your style?
NA LI:   I mean, the wind for both of us is the same, you know, so I cannot find reason say, ah, that is the reason.   Both of us is the same. 
Doesn't matter how was the condition, how was the court.   For both player it was the same.

Q.   Were you pleased with your game when you were I think 2‑All or something in the second set, you took seven games in a row and took charge of the match.   Were you pleased with that phase of the match and why did it not continue?
NA LI:   I think if I continue, for sure I win the match, you know (smiling).   So, yeah, I think I should continue to improve a little bit more, come to the net.   I think this is the only way I can win the match or I can put pressure on my opponent.
So now at least, how do you say, I got more information.   So when out of the court start practice ‑‑I will try to do that all the time.

Q.   You will use that information?
NA LI:   Yeah, for sure.   You know, when you lose the match, is not only bad thing.   Also you can learn a lot.   You can see so many thing on the court.

Q.   You had a 3‑1 lead in that third set.   Was it something she did, or was it something you didn't do that you weren't able to hold on and win the match?
NA LI:   Yeah, like I said before, you know, it's normal.   Like doesn't matter if you're 3‑1 or 5‑1‑up, if you cannot finish the match, opponent always has chance.
So I think, you know, when I was 3‑1 up, 4‑2 up, I always have game point, but I didn't hang in there.   So I think this is a big mistake for today.   Yeah. 

Q.   You have played her before.   She had to qualify to get in here.   Today she looked pretty confident and secure.   Any thoughts on why she's like only 133 in the world and had to qualify on her game?   Any thoughts about her?
NA LI:   The ranking just for, how do you say, proof for, how do you say, last year.   She has big injury.   That's why she doesn't play many matches.
I mean, the ranking is nothing.   You have to see what you should do for ‑‑ like if we already start 2014, you have to see whether you should do in 2014.   You cannot overthink, thinking back about 2013. 

Q.   If you had to change something in the way you played yesterday and today, what did you learn from this week here in Doha?   What would you change?
NA LI:   Well, it was cold.   It's windy.   (Laughter). 
You know, every tournament is different.   The court is a little bit slower. 
So when I think I can hit a winner, but the opponent always get ball back to the court, so I always have to ready for next shot.
But I think I didn't do well in this tournament.   I didn't prepare like, how do you say, didn't prepare to win the point, you know, to bring so many things.
That's okay.   At least I was fight on the court.   So was pretty good information, and now only I can do is start the training to get more information from this tournament and to improve a lot. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT