QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 12, 2014
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. LI/M. Rybarikova
  6‑1, 5‑7, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   It was a strange game at the beginning where you were flying, and after it was very difficult.   Can you explain that?
NA LI:   This is tennis.   You know, nobody said you have to win two set or you have to lose two set.   So we play best‑of‑three set. 
You know, even the match didn't finish, everyone has their chance.   And also, this is tennis.   If I play more defense, opponent will play more aggressive.
So I was really happy in the end I can win the match, because this is first match after Australian Open.   I know I really, how do you say, I really wish I can doing well, but I cannot put a lot of pressure for myself.   This is tennis game.   Right now more important for me, so I have to enjoy the tennis life.

Q.   How did it feel to get back out there?   It's been a while. 
NA LI:   Well, you know, always like exciting/nervous.   Always that.   Because first match always tough. 
Also, she was play already one match, so she know how the feeling on the court.   I have to, how do you say, prepare for today, because first match, it's very tough.   She's, how do you say, she play well. 

Q.   How have you been celebrating your Australian Open win?
NA LI:   Yeah, I was pretty enjoy the time.   After Australia I was back to China for three days, so one day with my family, of course, and one day with my husband family, and another day with my friends. 
So after three days I was back to Germany to see the doctor.   Also, they support me a lot, so to check my body and prepare for here.

Q.   Well done.   It must have been difficult also because of the wind.   Did you decide not to compromise and just play your way even though it was windy?
NA LI:   You know, the wind, I cannot change.   So many things, if I cannot change, I have to, how do you say, take it.   I think this is only I can do.
Also, I think the wind is for both of us is the same.   So of course I was prepared for the wind, but the match like this, even today it was windy and I was like, how I can play tennis with wind?   Too much for me. 
But at least I'm hang in there.   I make it. 

Q.   You have always been a positive player, but you started very aggressively and played a lot of the match very aggressively.   Is this a new emphasis as your career progresses to be that way?
NA LI:   I think this is the way I improve a lot.   Getting old, you cannot stay a long time on the court.   (Smiling.)   So you have to finish as quick as you can.
And also, you know, after working with Carlos, I think I change a lot even ‑‑I know before I was aggressive player already, but I think now even more.   So, yeah, even, how do you say, more calm and more smart, more tough.

Q.   Having had the success you have had, does that make you more calm, as well?
NA LI:   I mean, this is when I was training with Carlos like pretty close for two years, I was feeling a lot for mentally, you know, because he think the technique for me is not big problem, but if I cannot control for myself on the court is most big opponent to against myself.
So I have to change a lot to training on the court.   Also off the court.   Change a lot. 

Q.   I don't know if you heard about the National Sports Day yesterday here in Qatar.   How do you see the fact that one country reserve all one day to push people and to encourage them to practice sport?
NA LI:   I think it was pretty good idea for me.   I mean, you know, if the children come to the sport, like me, because I'm come to sport, I always feeling more confident, more tough.
It's not, say, how good we are, but at least we try our best on sport, our sport.   So I was feeling pretty good. 
And also, I saw yesterday so many children.   I think they are enjoy the day.   Why not? 

Q.   Can you talk a little bit about winning Australia?   Do you think that it makes it more important for you and your legacy that you now have two slams as opposed to just one?
NA LI:   Yeah, I know.   Of course, Australia is my favorite Grand Slam.   I always doing well. 
So before the tournament start, I really wish I can win the title.   So finally I make it.   Yeah, I heard a lot, after '11, so many people say, Oh, she lucky, she only can win one; she cannot win second one.
So I didn't want to show all of them, but at least I show myself I can win the second one.   And also, because I was prepared for what I should do to win the Grand Slam.
So I was really happy.   Doesn't matter how old I am.   I'm still young.   So I'm still happy I can move a lot on the court. 

Q.   I heard that your autobiography is out in English now.   So can you tell us, have you heard any feedback from English‑speaking people?   What can people look forward to read?   Which parts of your life are you revealing in the autobiography? 
NA LI:   Yeah, because of course Chinese is first and English is out beginning of the year. 
So, you know, so many people, I think especially Chinese, they think I'm not normal people.       So I just want to show all of them I am normal people, because I have my goal.   I just prove myself to make it.
I wish the people, if they read the book, they thought, oh, she was working so hard.   It's not only about luck, you know. 
And also, you know, I want they know about is not only is tennis player, is about this person, personality.
So, yeah, I really wish they can understand what I'm doing, what I do.   Especially, you know, my mom.   I think my mom is a little bit special, because I think when I win the French Open and she call me, she's like, Oh, Li Na, you just win one tournament.   Why?   The newspaper...     
I was like, Thanks, mom.   You doing good job. 
Because she's not interesting about any sport.
And also, this time, right after match I call her, she was like, You win the big tournament? 
I was like, Yes, mom.   You right. 
So I don't know how to explain to her what I am doing.   So at least after the book, after she saw and she say, Oh, my daughter was doing what she doing.   Yes. 

Q.   A couple of big‑named players pulled out just before the tournament, including Azarenka and Serena.   Does that change how you approach a tournament, how you think, how you play, how you approach each match in the tournament?
NA LI:   I mean, you know, if the player pull out or put in, I cannot control.   I play Doha already I decide end of the last year.   I didn't change my schedule special.   Like last year I didn't play here because of injury.   If I'm not injured, I always follow the schedule all the year. 

Q.   There is a lot of players we see their mothers or fathers come around.   Has your mother ever gone to watch you play in any of these events?
NA LI:   Never.

Q.   She just doesn't want to or scared to watch?
NA LI:   I don't know.   Maybe scared.   Even I play Olympics in Beijing, she never come to watch. 
So I always invited her so many times.   She say, I'm not interesting. 
I say, Okay.   Stay home.   Do whatever you want.   Just enjoy the life.
I think I never saw she do some exercise, you know, so I'm pretty sure she's not good sports. 

Q.   Not interested?
NA LI:   Not interesting.   Yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT