QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 10, 2014
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Welcome to Doha.   First of all, can you tell us how you're feeling and what you've been doing since your last tournament?   And how did you celebrate?
NA LI:   Oh, it's not really much celebration, because after Melbourne, back to China was Chinese New Year.   So I was very enjoy the time, three times with my parents and with my friend, and after that I was back to gym as well to see the doctor, just make sure how is the body feeling and then come here. 

Q.   How is the body feeling?   Are you feeling okay?
NA LI:   Yeah, I'm always feeling healthy and strong on the court.

Q.   Next Monday you will be officially No. 2.   Is it a good satisfaction for you?
NA LI:   I think of course.   I mean, everyone would like to have higher ranking, right?   I was really happy.   We say next week is next week.   I still have to prepare for what I'm doing in Doha, so at least I have to play well in here.

Q.   You have just won the Australian Open.   Has that set a really difficult precedent for you that you expect to do well now in every single tournament you play in, expect to win or be in the final or something like that?
NA LI:   No, I think because I was prepare everything to be, how do you say, start, beginning in this year, so I was really happy I can win both of tournaments I play.
Melbourne already past, and you cannot think about what I'm doing already.   So, you know, if I come to Doha, it's new tournament.   Every tournament is different.   So I have to prepare everything.

Q.   It's been a while since you played here.   Can you just tell us your decision to come and play here?   What are you looking forward to this week?
NA LI:   Of course, I mean, everyone want to be win the tournament, right, if you would be here.   Nobody want to lose early.
All the athlete was pretty, how do you say, fighting so hard on the court.   But for me, of course, at least have to pass first round.   I think round by round.   Cannot only think about I come here to win tournament, but still have to prepare.   Yeah. 

Q.   You have won in Shenzhen and Australian Open.   Is it the best moment of your career actually?
NA LI:   No, I don't think so.   Because this year just beginning, you know.   And all the year we have 52 weeks.   I can say I'm doing well in the first month, but 11 month, as you know. 
Yeah, I will try to do the best, like before. 

Q.   Now that you have won your second Grand Slam, what do you think is more difficult, winning your first or winning the second?
NA LI:   I think it's feeling, how do you say, really much, much different.   I was feeling when I was win the first one is more exciting, because I don't know what happen.   I don't know if I have to win what happen, if I have to lose what happen. 
But in the second one I was, how do you say, I start training so hard, it's not only about technique.   Also mentally, you know.   So prove a lot for these like one‑and‑a‑halfyears to prepare for that. 
So that's why after Melbourne I was feeling not exciting like the first one, because I know what happen after win.   So feeling much, how do you say, more relaxed, more calm. 

Q.   Why do you think older players seem to be dominating tennis right now on the women's tour?
NA LI:   I don't think we are old.   We just a little bit, how do you say, more experienced on the tour.
I think now the tennis is not only about technique.   Mostly important for us is more, how do you say, mentally you have to be strong on the court.   Maybe some young player have very good technique, but they are not strong enough or they didn't have enough experience on the court.
So, yeah. 

Q.   You're the top seed here.   Do you feel a lot of pressure?
NA LI:   It's tournament is tournament, you know.   I know I can feel the pressure, but I have to find a way to calm down for myself. 
Even I come here before I was telling myself, Okay, don't think about too much, you know.   Tennis is a game.   Everyone have the chance to win or to lose.   So don't put a lot of pressure for yourself.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT