AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2015
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.Q. How has this whole trip felt?  How has this experience been for you?NA LI: Pretty good, you know.  New life just start couple months, so still on the way to used it.  Feeling pretty happy, yeah.Q. You said that winning the Australian Open last year or making the decision to retire was much more difficult than winning the Australian Open.  Beginning with your news yesterday, it feels a lot better now?NA LI: Yes.  When I know that I was feeling, okay, this is the best gift I got.  I think it's a very tough decision for me to make the, say good-bye to tennis, to tennis. But I think now just have to continue to do what I'm doing, to take care of our family.  (Smiling.)Q. How long have you been thinking about retiring?NA LI: I was thinking about like pretty long.  Yeah.  And finally I was like, Okay, I think this is best time for me to make it.Q. You talked about the academy.  Does that change anything with respect to your kind of immediate postretirement plans?  You talked about the academy and a bunch of different things.  Does this impact how all of that is developing?NA LI: At least I don't have to answer what goal for this year, you know.  So I was feeling more relax.  No stressing anymore.  Right now I think I'm much happier.  Yeah.Q. Is that something that you had planned for a long time or something that came after you decided to retire?NA LI: Just like this.  (Snapping fingers) (laughter.)Q. How long had you been thinking about starting a family with Dennis?  In interviews you often talked about wanting to be a housewife.  That was on your mind for how long before retirement?NA LI: I think for my dream is be a housewife.  I think every child they learn from the family.  I was learn from my mom, so I was feeling the woman has to be like housewife. But I guess I'm not bad to play tennis.  So I was feeling, okay, because tennis was take care a lot.  I think now is the time to turn back.  Yeah.Q. How are you feeling?  Do you have any morning sickness or any food cravings?NA LI: Yes, I do.  Until now I still have morning sick.  Yeah.Q. Any particular cravings or things you don't want to eat anymore?NA LI: No, no.  I think I was pretty fine.  I was ask my mom what I should care about.  She was like, Do whatever you want to do.  Don't care about.  She's strong.  So I was, Okay, okay.Q. She's a she?NA LI: She or him.  I prefer she.  (Laughter.)Q. Are you going to teach your kids tennis?NA LI: I will see if they are interested about tennis or not.  Yeah, yeah.Q. If you could have changed one thing in your career, what would that have been?NA LI: I think I'm perfect for the life.  I wouldn't change anything.Q. Do you have a single favorite moment that stands out and one moment that was difficult during your career?NA LI: Of course.  I think everyone got that.  I think most good memory thing for me is win Australian Open.  2011 I lose in the final.  It's first time I really feeling I can get the trophy.  Bad things right after French Open.  I think I use half year to stand up again.  But I like this experience, yeah.  Yeah.Q. Going back to just thoughts about a possible academy and things, have you decided what city or where that might be yet?NA LI: I think because right now Chinese was very interesting about tennis.  So when I say I want to have tennis academy, all of China invited me.  So I have many choice.  For sure first tennis academy in China.Q. Have you heard from any other tennis moms, someone who has reached out to you to congratulate you or give you advice?NA LI: I got a lot message yesterday, yeah.  I got a lot of congrats.  So thanks for them.Q. Why did you decide to make the announcement on Rod Laver Arena?NA LI: I think we decide end of November.  Yeah, because I know this is -- Melbourne for me is very special area.  So I know after that this is big moment for me.  So I want to speak to all my fans, my friend.  Yeah.Q. Of all the qualities in you that helped you reach and achieve everything you did, what do you want your child to take from you?NA LI: I try don't to tell them I was the tennis player, you know.  It's pretty simple.  Just like I wish them happy and healthy.  That's it.  Yeah.Q. What's it like to be retired?  You once said that you had sort of a lot of beasts within you that you got out on the tennis court and you felt all this pressure to win.  What has it been like to leave tennis behind?  Are you a different person now?NA LI: I'm still the same.  (Smiling.)  Only not with tennis racquet anymore.  It's for me I decide because I cannot play anymore.  I still love tennis, so that's why I always doing the job.  Yeah, of course right now I don't have to worry about win or lose every day.  Yeah, it's less pressure.  Yeah.Q. If you could choose, would you still choose tennis as your career?NA LI: If I have next life, I will still choose tennis, I will still choose the famous Asian as well.Q. Why will you not immediately tell your child that you were a tennis player?NA LI: I think tennis is my job, it's not their job, you know.  I think everyone has personality.  Yeah.Q. You have been the top Asian player for a long time, and in the men's side, Kei Nishikori got very close to win Grand Slam last year.  After you announced your retirement, he said he got a lot of motivation or confidence from you.  So you give him any advices like Asian player, what kind of advice would you give him?NA LI: I saw him play final on TV, of course.  I think he's amazing player.  It's not easy to be in the top.  I know how hard working he has.  So I will believe he can win Grand Slam.  Seriously.  Yeah.Q. Will Dennis be changing diapers with you?NA LI: No, no.  The guys, it's strange, I know how is another guy, but he never change, you know.  Yeah.Q. Just your thoughts on the players from China in the draw at the moment.  Obviously a few defeats today.  What are your thoughts?NA LI: I even didn't saw the match.  Sorry about that, because I was like make me super busy.  Yeah.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT