TEB BNP PARIBAS WTA CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 27, 2013
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. WILLIAMS/N. Li
  2‑6, 6‑3, 6‑0 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   It was a pretty strong set and a half there, and then it looked like things maybe got away from you.   So can you talk a little bit about the match?   Where do you think it changed for you?  
NA LI:   I was feeling maybe start the match too exciting.   So when after one‑half set I was feeling no more energy left.   Yeah.   
And also, I think it's a tough tournament, because I was play five days in a row.   Every opponent top 8, so, you know, never have an easy match in this tournament.  
   
 Q.   Carlos was saying he was very proud of your ability to serve and volley when you were down, that that was a development that he was very happy with.   So talk about that, and how much mental energy did that maybe take from you, maybe having to focus on being courageous on those points?  
NA LI:   This new thing is not like automatically.   It's not like baseline, I already know where I should hit or what I should do.   
But serve/volley for me is still new.   I was nervous a lot, of course.   If I was doing more, I was nervous what I should do and when I should do.   So even today's match I was also very happy about serve/volley.  
I mean, I don't know how many times I come to the net, but not so many mistakes.   So I think I should continue for next year.   
   
 Q.   Serena at the start has seemed to be quite a lot slower than sometimes, but then it picked up.   Did you feel like she really got into the match maybe in that second set?  
NA LI:   I mean, this is a game, you know.   They don't have a rule saying you have to serve over how much.   Yeah, even she serve a little bit slow, she can serve the angle, so still is tough got to return.  
   
 Q.   My question was similar to that.   Just during the match obviously you said you ran out of energy as the match went on, but did you also notice the change on Serena ,that she was increasing in energy maybe as the second set and third set went on?  
NA LI:   So this is the reason why she live in Los Angeles, right?   (Smiling).   No, I mean, I don't know ‑‑I don't know what happened about her, but when she start match, she already, I don't know, feeling like die.   
But in the final set she can serve 180, 190.   I have no idea about this.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel like you're getting closer to Serena, or do you feel like there's still a large gap, you're still far away from...   
NA LI:   I was feeling ‑‑I was feeling much, much better than the US Open, you know.   At least this time I was ‑‑I try to do my best.   Even after one‑half set no more energy, still is my problem, you know.   
Yeah.   But I think I was working so hard to prove myself to be the level, you know.   After one‑half set still feeling a little bit tight, really.   
Maybe I should have more hard working in the wintertime to improve for next year?   I don't know.  
   
 Q.   After the time you now have worked with Carlos, do you feel like he really understands you as a player and a person?  
NA LI:   You mean he understand about me?   
   
 Q.   Yes.   Do you feel Carlos understands you as a person and as a tennis player.   
NA LI:   I think he's pretty smart, you know.   It's not now.   I think half a year ago he already understand about play, also person, about me.  
   
 Q.   I know you want to think about your holiday now.   
NA LI:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   What you've achieved this year, it must make you excited for what you can go and achieve for next year?  
NA LI:   Yeah, at least like whole team we try to do what we say, and finally we make it.   
If not, think about for next year for the goal is too early, because now I'm only focusing where I should be for vacation (smiling).   
   
 Q.   It's never fun obviously to lose a set 6‑Love, but is that going to leave a bad taste in your mouth, or has this whole week been nothing but positive for you?  
NA LI:   You know, the score ‑‑the match is over.   You cannot think about, like, backwards.   The score is already there.   Everyone saw is 6‑Love.   
Yeah, but I know I have a little bit bad tasting, because it's Love, but I still feeling more positive thing.   At least in the whole match I was use a lot of serve/volley.   I was try as much as I can come to the net.   Yeah.   This is improvement.  
   
 Q.   Next year the Championships move to Singapore.   Obviously there is a lot of Chinese people there, and it's the first time it will be in Asia.   Does this event become even more important for you when it's in Singapore, do you think, for you personally?  
NA LI:   You know, I never been to Singapore, so, yeah.   But the city was really looking forward to be there.   But first I have to be in Championships, and then have a chance to be there.   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   So what are your vacation plans?   Do you know where you're going?   
NA LI:   Sorry?   
   
 Q.   Your vacation plans.   Do you know where you're going?  
NA LI:   Secret (smiling).   
   
 Q.   Start of the second set, you lost all your challenges in one‑and‑a‑half game.   So you got a little bit too excited, or it just coincidence?   
NA LI:   I lose all the challenges?   
   
 Q.   Yes, challenges in two games.   
NA LI:   And then?   
   
 Q.   Why this happen?   Just coincidence?   
NA LI:   Why this happen?   This is normal.   There is no reason for the thing.   It's natural.   Yeah.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT