TEB BNP PARIBAS WTA CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 25, 2013
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. LI/V. Azarenka
  6‑2, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Congratulations.   How tough was it for you to play when your opponent didn't feel good?   How did it distract you so much?
NA LI:   I mean, today the match is not about tennis, about fitness.   Only about mentally.   Because I thought maybe after the first set she will give up or retire, but she still try to continue to play.
I think it's tough because I have to focus, hope all time, because you never know what happen on the court.   Yeah.

Q.   How many times did you expect her to retire, I guess, today?   Because there were a few times where she sort of paused, and it looked like maybe she was about to.   Did you keep thinking it was about to stop?
NA LI:   I mean, the first thing I thought maybe after the first set she will retire, but after the chair umpire always say, Time, time, time, I was like, Okay, continue play.   Because I thought after 5‑Love, I felt there is no reason she will retire.   Because if she retire for sure, before already do that.
Really happy.   At least if I have the same thing before, maybe I already lose the match because I cannot focus in the court.

Q.   Would you have retired in that situation?
NA LI:   Me? 

Q.   Yeah. 
NA LI:   I mean, if I was feeling very bad, for sure I would retire, because maybe even I continue maybe worse for the injury.   I don't know, but everyone is different, you know. 

Q.   How proud were you about the fact you were able to stay focused?   Because during all of that, maybe in the past, you know, you may have gone off the rails a little bit.   But today it was very focused. 
NA LI:   Yeah, I know.   Maybe this is why this year I was improve.
So when I saw her and when the first time she ask the physio, I was like, Okay, focus.   Just ready to running every shot.   Yeah. 

Q.   My question is two qualifiers for semifinal are the two oldest players of the tournament against young players.   What is the secret of this oldest player?
NA LI:   Oldest player? 

Q.   You and Serena.   Two oldest player. 
NA LI:   Oldest player have more experience on the court (smiling). 

Q.   Going back to the Australian Open, you played her and a few injuries in that match, and now you guys played again. 
NA LI:   Yep.

Q.   And injuries in this match.   Maybe you two should never play again?
NA LI:   So now I was cross the finger.   Next time both have to be healthy on the court.   Yeah.   (Smiling).

Q.   Your thoughts on your next match, which will be against the winner of this match now.   Kvitova and Kerber, both lefties for you.   What challenges will each of them present you?
NA LI:   I mean, because I play both players many times, so, yeah, lefty always different because the serve and also the way they are play.
But at least, you know, I will finish in the match.   I can have time to watch their play.   Really didn't think about the match for tomorrow, because in this moment just enjoy, because first time to be in the semis in the Championships, you know.   Yeah. 

Q.   Are you happy that you will not play Serena in semifinal?
NA LI:   What? 

Q.   Are you happy that you will not play with Serena in semifinal?
NA LI:   I mean, if you want to win the tournament, you always have to play against her.   Yeah.

Q.   Better in the final?
NA LI:   Ah, yeah, maybe (smiling).   Yeah.

Q.   Do you realize that if you win the next game you will be first make the top 3 world ranking first time?
NA LI:   No, I didn't think about that, because I'm still in the tournament.   I'm not thinking about how the ranking going. 

Q.   You have reached the quarterfinals or better at every nonclay event.   Does that surprise you?
NA LI:   I got what? 

Q.   You have reached the quarterfinals or better at every tournament off clay.   Does that surprise you?
NA LI:   Of course was pretty happy, the year.   I mean, like I say before, I think this is the best year of my career, for these couple years, but the tournament isn't finish here, so I have to still looking forward.   Yeah.

Q.   The round‑robin format here is different from all the other tournaments.   You seem to mentally have dealt with it obviously pretty well going 3‑0 in your group.   Does that get easier with experience playing the round robin?   Because it's a little bit different than all the rest of the tournaments. 
NA LI:   I mean, this tournament for me is a little bit special.   I talk to the WTA staff.   I was talk to the physio.   I was feeling like if like normal tournament you have exciting or nervous.   But this tournament, for me, like exciting, nervous, relax, and focus.   You know, have to be in the same time.
Like before, after warming up like today, I already think about where I go for vacation, but one hour later I have to play on the court.   So this is ‑‑I don't know.   Every year when I was playing the Championships, always same feeling, you know.   Because I know is the last tournament for the season.   So maybe‑‑ I don't know. 

Q.   Maybe it took a little time to get used to balancing those emotions?   This is your third time and your first time in the semifinals. 
NA LI:   Yeah.

Q.   Just experience?
NA LI:   I was really happy I can be third time in a row.   And first time it was very exciting.   Second time was a little bit.   This time I think a got more experience.   You know, it's not like before.   If I win the match, if I lose the match, I was feeling what I should going or what I should do. 
But this year I was feeling more, how you say, more confident, more understand what I should do on the court or off the court.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT