TEB BNP PARIBAS WTA CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 24, 2013
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. LI/J. Jankovic
  6‑3, 2‑6, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   First three‑set match anyone has played in the tournament.   It seemed like a pretty good quality one.   How are you feeling with your performance today?  
NA LI:   Is first one?   
   
 Q.   Yeah, of the three days, first three‑set match here.   
NA LI:   Okay.   So of course was tight, yeah, but at least is better than last two years, because now is one feet in the semis but another feet still in the out of the door, so I have to see how is going tomorrow.  
Yeah, how you say, I mean, Jelena always tough match because she's very good different player, so I think today I was running a lot, forward and backward on the court.   It's very tough match.   
   
 Q.   Has her comeback this year surprised you?   She's back in the top 10 after getting a little bit lower than that.   Was that a surprise?  
NA LI:   I mean, is really not surprise because she was former No. 1, so she has the level to be the top 10.   
Maybe now she get more confident.   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   In the third set it got very tight.   
NA LI:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   What was the difference, do you think, for you today to get the win?  
NA LI:   I think I tried to come to the net.   I mean, if I try to like always stay on the baseline, maybe I need running more today.   Couple point I try to come to the net.   I was like, Okay, continue.   
But when the nervous time coming, I was, like, safety, stay in baseline.   
   
 Q.   You talked about having one foot in the semifinals already.   This is the only round‑robin tournament of the year for you, so what is it like mentally having won two matches already against very good players and still not being sure if it's enough?  
NA LI:   I mean, if I lose the easy tomorrow, I already, I don't know, maybe no chance?   I don't know.   Yeah.   
So at least is good chance for me to be in the semis, you know.   So still have to fight tomorrow, one more round for the group.  
   
 Q.   You said you weren't surprised that Jelena is back in the top 10, but you played her not so long ago at the US Open.   She only got three games.   Do you feel like she's playing better now than even a couple of months ago or a month ago?  
NA LI:   Maybe because in US Open I was play better than today.   So you can see the score is different.  
But, you know, because we know between like too much, you know.   So she already swing her racquet, I know where she have to put the ball.   That's why you can see today we move a lot.  
I think for US Open maybe ‑‑I didn't say she played bad.   Maybe I play best of match.   Yeah, so pretty easy in the US Open.  
   
 Q.   You can't say if her level is better now than it was then?   Your level was better?  
NA LI:   Can I say that?   Okay.   (Smiling).   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT