BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS
October 19, 2014
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  ANDREW KRASNY:   Ladies and gentlemen, Li Na. 

Q.   Do you miss us yet? 
NA LI:   Off the court, yes. 

Q.   What will you be doing with your life now that you won't be competing on the tour?
NA LI:   You can say I was feeling even more busy when I was play.   Yeah, I was been in Shanghai for the Australian Open trophy.   I was been here.   Yeah, next one I think I will be in Melbourne as well. 

Q.   What has been your reaction to the reaction to your retirement?   It's been about a month now since your announcement.   All the support and love you've gotten from around the world, what has that meant to you? 
NA LI:   Of course they are moments, same like when the win the Grand Slam title.   Doesn't matter how many years pass, when you thinking back, always like special moment for me.
Yeah. 

Q.   What are your feelings coming to this tournament in particular knowing that had you not retired you would've probably been one of these eight women?   Is it bittersweet?   Happy to be here?
NA LI:   Of course pretty happy to be here.   I don't have to training.   I don't have to play match.   Just come here to see all the friend. 
Yeah, now can be like fan, you know, and just watch some matches.   (Smiling.)
Yeah. 

Q.   Do you have any regrets now about retiring or any second thoughts?   Would you ever come back to tennis?
NA LI:   Of course I'm not going to come back to tennis.   I'm already 32; beginning of the year I already 33.   I think I have to take care of my family right now, because last 32 years I was try hard as I can on tennis court.
Now, you know, tennis is part of the life, so now I have to take care my family. 

Q.   Sometimes when you're playing tennis on the tour it's hard to get perspective on your impact in the sport in Asia.   Now you've had a little bit more time away.   We're in Singapore.   The first time the finals have been in Asia; Wuhan Open, all these sorts of things.   Do you get now more of a feeling of how you changed the sport or opened up the sport a little bit? 
NA LI:   I love to hear what you say, but until now I still feeling much different. 
I think I still need some time, yeah. 

Q.   Can you talk a little bit about your friendship with Petra.   Before you and her, did you find out it was harder to find someone like her to connect with on the tour?   Do you feel it's hard to make friends on the tour? 
NA LI:   I think everyone is different.   Sometime athletes very easy to find friendship on the tour; sometimes not.   I was so happy I can be best friends with her.
Yeah, best wish for her. 

Q.   What has been the biggest surprise for you in the last month? 
NA LI:   Last month? 

Q.   Yeah, biggest surprise. 
NA LI:   Yeah, I can have seven days off.   When the National day coming, just stay in the home.   I don't have to work, or how is the schedule, when I wake up what I should worry about.

Q.   Is it nice having no schedule?
NA LI:   Pretty nice, yeah.   Yeah. 

Q.   Since you're not playing, would you care to give us a prediction?   Who would you consider a favorite for the title?
NA LI:   You mean here? 

Q.   Yeah. 
NA LI:   I think everyone has chance.   This is top eight player on the world, so you know how much they do for all of the year.   I think everyone can have chance to win tournament. 

Q.   Since your announcement, which reaction surprised you the most from players, friends? 
NA LI:   I don't know.   It's very tough to answer. 

Q.   You mentioned that you are going to open your tennis school in China.   Any interest in opening one in Singapore? 
NA LI:   You know, I was born in China; I grew up in China.   For sure first tennis academy was in China, of course.
If business was doing well, yeah.   Why not? 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT