TEB BNP PARIBAS WTA CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 21, 2013
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   What's your first thought on the draw results last night?   Do you feel like this is your best chance to make it to the semifinals for the first time with the way you played so far in the second half of this season?  
NA LI:   I never think about if you have been in Championships you have the easy draw.   I don't know how you can make that.   But, for me, I mean, the tournament is only top player can play.   Everyone is tough.   No easy match at all.  
I don't know.   Yeah, maybe I always try my best tennis on court.   
   
 Q.   I know you said last night you thought maybe this was the best year of your career.   
NA LI:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   I was wondering what makes you think that comparing it to other years?   What makes this year even better in your opinion?  
NA LI:   At least this year I was feeling start beginning of the year until now I always stay like same level, not like before.   Maybe 2011 I was win Grand Slam, but other tournaments I have not good result.  
So this year doesn't matter if like Grand Slam or even international tournament.   I always play well.   Yeah, is more, how you say, is more controlled, the year.  
   
 Q.   Do you enjoy playing more now than you did when you first started and why?   
NA LI:   Yeah, I think now is more enjoy.   You know, getting old, you get more experience on the court (smiling).  
I know they always ask me about this second old women on the tour, and I would like to say age is nothing.   Age gave me a lot experience on the court.   I still happy the way I am playing now on the court.  
   
 Q.   Do you take losses easier now than you did when you were younger?   Is it easier to lose now than when you first started?  
NA LI:   I was feeling when I was younger, if I lose the match, I was like, how you can lose the match?   Like so many negative thing in my mind.  
But now I was feeling win or lose, is tennis match, you know.   It really didn't change my life because this is my job.  
   
 Q.   Do you think that you're a better tennis player now than you were two years ago when you won the slam?  
NA LI:   I would like to say yes.   Also, this is what I feeling.   I think, how you say, special this year.   I was feeling I can more control myself.   It's not like before, you know.   
   
 Q.   Physically, how do you feel?   How does your body feel as you get older?   Do you feel stronger in some ways?   Is it harder to recover?  
NA LI:   I think I have a very good physio.   So I was feeling very same like before, have very good recover, like, as well, especially this year I was feeling even more, move more fast than before.  
   
 Q.   One of the players if your group is Azarenka.   I know you have had a bunch of tough matches in your career.   What are your thoughts on that match and how your two styles come together on court?  
NA LI:   I mean, I was play Azarenka Melbourne (smiling).   No, it's pretty good match, but it's very unlucky because twice, so, yeah.   
Hopefully this time no drop down, okay?   At least I have to finish the match for healthy.  
   
 Q.   Seems like of the top players like yourself and Radwanska and Azarenka get close to beating Serena, or Azarenka has beaten her a couple of times but don't do it very often or never do it.   Is that more mental, or is it technical that she's just better on certain strokes?   Or is it confidence that you don't necessarily believe you can beat her in the end?  
NA LI:   I will feeling maybe more mentally, like sometimes ‑‑maybe now is better, but before, you know, I was feeling before come to court, I already lose the match.   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   So now when you're on court with her ‑‑ at the US Open she got off to a fast start.   You played her tougher in the second set.   Did you feel like at times during that set, yes, if I play my best tennis I actually have a chance to beat her?  
NA LI:   I was feeling, yes, even I lose her in the US Open, I still feel if I, how you say, like I said at US Open, because the match I lose to myself; is not lose to opponent.   Doesn't matter who against me the time, the day; I already lose the match.  
So, yeah, at least I learn something.   I still learn every day.   If I have chance to play against her again, I wish I can doing well.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned the Australian Open final.   When you look back on that match, do you see it more as just bad luck, just not your day, you know, everything that happened that day?   Or do you look back and say there were things that I could have won that match even though, you know, you fell and all these sorts of things?  
NA LI:   I mean, you cannot thinking about that, because is already done.     So only thing I can do is looking forward for next year.   
   
 Q.   You said it's maybe your best year and maybe your most consistent year, but you only won one tournament.   
NA LI:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Shenzhen.   Is it important for a player's confidence to finish one week as the winner without losing a match, or is it not that important?   It's more important just to win big matches in big tournaments?   
NA LI:   I don't know how the other player, but for me didn't matter how many tournament you win.   It's you have to look about to see the year, what do you do?   
So I know I only win one tournament, but you have to see another tournament.   I play a lot of semis, a lot of quarters.   I was feeling this is much better than last year, so at least I improve a lot.   
   
 Q.   You have been asked many, many times about what Carlos has brought to your game.   So I'm not going to ask you that again.   But I'm going to ask you, have you had dialogue with Justine through Carlos?   Have you talked to her about your game and what you can achieve?  
NA LI:   You know, I think Carlos is pretty good coach, because when he's coached me, he never talking about Justine about the prior life.   He can tell me the things but only around the tennis court.   
I was feeling more safe even after I was retire, he coach another player, he didn't say anything about my prior life, so that's good.  
   
 Q.   No, I'm asking you, have you spoken to Justine very much through Carlos, or has it just been simply Carlos?  
NA LI:   Sorry, I never talk to her.   She live in Belgium; I live in China.   It's far away.   
   
 Q.   You tend to be very funny in press conferences, lighthearted.   Are you also like that off the court, or are you more serious off the court?  
NA LI:   I was feeling more serious on the court.   Yeah.   Because I don't know.   Maybe because it's my job.   You know, job is different than life.   
   
 Q.   But when you are done with the matches and done with press, are you joking and laughing all the time, or does it depend on your matches and your results?  
NA LI:   I think it would depend the match, because if I doing well, like if I was follow, how you say, game plan, if I lose the match, I still say, Oh, you doing good job.   But if you win the match but you play like you ‑‑you didn't play like what you want, I was like, maybe I was like sad 20 minutes, but after was okay.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT