CHINA OPEN
October 4, 2013
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. KVITOVA/N. Li
  4‑6, 6‑2, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in Chinese, please.   
   
 Q.   Can you make comments on your performance in this match?   During the match, some spectators were cheering for you which influenced your performance on the court at very crucial moments.   What are your comments on that?  
NA LI:   How many questions you want to ask?   You have asked two questions.   Generally speaking, I think my performance in this match was generally good.   To play Kvitova, actually, we have win and lose.   I think she has better control in terms of the crucial ball.   
I lose in this match doesn't mean that I had nothing special on this court.   I tried to control my emotion on the court.   
   
 Q.   Does the yelling from the spectators influence you?  
NA LI:   Actually, I can't control the spectators.   They're beyond my control.   I can only accept what is happening.   
   
 Q.   After China Open, you will move to WTA Championships.   Although this season is yet to be completed, give us a summary of your performance in this season.   
NA LI:   I think it's good, because I have the most stable performance in this season.   That's good.   
   
 Q.   Actually, you have already make even in terms of your personal record.   You will participate in the WTA Championships.   Do you have more confidence that you will have a better performance in the WTA Championships?   What kind of goal do you have?   
NA LI:   My answer is I will be satisfied with my performance.   Rome is not built in a day.   A fat person does not become fatter overnight.   We have to concentrate on each match one by one.   
   
 Q.   I want to ask, were you feeling a little bit physically exhausted at the end of the match which contributed to your defeat, your loss?   
NA LI:   Actually, tennis, it's a very special sport.   You have no excuse if you lose the match.   It has nothing to do with the physical energy, because my opponent also plays for three sets.   
   
 Q.   Two questions.   First, can you talk about your serve for this match?   You have too many faults.   Second, when I interviewed Kvitova, you're playing in host country, so you have more pressure than her; is that right?   
NA LI:   I want to make it rather clear again that I lose is the fact.   I have no excuse.   I think the return of serve from Kvitova was very good.   Also, she had a lot of deep balls.   
What I have to do is step one or two steps backwards.   
   
 Q.   The dress of yours has already got very good recognition.   Are you going to try to follow this style this year, or are you going to be decided by WTA official?   
NA LI:   No, I will keep it as secret.   I can't make everything public.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned that you are having a very good season in terms of the physical and mental fitness.   You mentioned earlier that sometimes you were wrongly described by the media.   The media will not wrongly describe you at all.   My question is, are you enjoying the moment right now?   
NA LI:   I try to have more enjoyment than what I was in April, May, and June.   So I will not stay too much focused on so‑called gossip from the press and media.  
After the North American season started, I think I had a better adjustment in terms of my performance compared with the one that I had in the European season.   
   
 Q.   Previously you mentioned that you had a very hard practice.   
NA LI:   Why you catch me all the time?   I really can't understand you.   
   
 Q.   Just now you mentioned that you had a hard practice during the winter season.   When are you supposed to have the next hard practice?  
NA LI:   No, I don't have to worry about it at all because I have a long vacation before the winter season practice kicks off.   
   
 Q.   Just now you mentioned as well this season we witnessed one of your best performances ever.   Besides the changes that Carlos has already brought to you, what kind of experience can you share with us on the previous season?   
NA LI:   Look, this guy ask a very clear‑cut question.   
I think I have already said it repeatedly.   What Carlos has already taught me is not only regarding strategies and techniques.  
But most importantly, when I started to have communication off court with him, he taught me how to find a solution to any problems.   
May be different from the previous coaches, but doesn't mean that the other coaches are not good.   Different coaches have different ways of coaching.   When Carlos started to coach me, I think quite often I will come back to Beijing for practice and like what I did before.   
That is to say, I have more practice with Jiang Shan in Germany.   So when we have practice in Beijing, I have more people staying together with me to give me a lot of the coaching and help.   
   
 Q.   Early this year Carlos made a goal that you're supposed to push to top 3 in WTA Championships or to get a title of Grand Slam.   Are you closer to that goal?  
NA LI:   We are supposed to reach that goal step by step.   I can't make that goal possible overnight.   
   
 Q.   My question is, we all know that as a coach, Carlos is always trying to encourage you.   If we're going to take a look at this match in a positive way, what kind of experience did you learn from this match?   What kind of impact will it have on the WTA Championships?   
NA LI:   I have already answered that question earlier.   
   
 Q.   What can you learn from this match in a positive perspective?   
NA LI:   Yeah, I've already made it rather clear just now.   
   
 Q.   My question is still related to Carlos.   
NA LI:   Can I bring him over?   
   
 Q.   When you were interviewed recently, you used the word "senior" to describe him.   I asked him when I interviewed him what would be a word to describe you.   Carlos used the words girl with big heart.   That is to say that Carlos believes you're mentally sound and you are psychologically sound.   
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English.   
   
 Q.   You've achieved a lot this year at all levels.   It's clearly not over, but you still haven't pick up a major title in China.   Is that a disappointment for you?   
NA LI:   (Translated from Chinese) Do I have to answer the question in English or Chinese?   
(In English.)   I was really happy all the year what I'm doing on the court.   Also, I was feeling much stronger.   It's not only about technique.   It's about mentally, you know.   I was feeling much, much stronger than before.   Doesn't matter how the score on the court, I still believe I can win the match.  
But this year for me the goal is No. 3, top 3, or another Grand Slam.   Maybe I still have chance.   Like after Melbourne.   Maybe just like couple match.   If I win, maybe I can make the goal.   
But it's the end of the season, so this is my next year.   The good thing is maybe I need to improve my serve even more.   I think I improve already, but if I want to get more free point, I should do that even more hard training.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT