CHINA OPEN
October 2, 2013
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. LI/S. Lisicki
  7‑5, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please.   
   
 Q.   You've had some close matches with her the last couple times you played.   How were you able to come out on top this time?   
NA LI:   Always tough to play against her.   She has huge, big serve and also forehand.   
I mean, today she has a little bit broken my rhythm, you know.   I need like three or four shot to get my rhythm, and sometimes she just come to shoot one shot.  
So I was feeling a little bit shock, but I was really happy in the end I can win the match.   
   
 Q.   You said your pace of play was really fast.   She's really aggressive.   How are you able to neutralize that, especially on the last couple games in the first set and then the second set?  
NA LI:   I really didn't think about too much.   When come to the court, I just say, Okay, just calm down, try to hit the ball back to the court and give yourself one more chance to try to stay calm and try to focus.   
Yeah.   
THE MODERATOR:   Chinese questions, please.   
   
 Q.   First of all, congratulations for this tough match.   This morning, Juan Carlos gave an interview.   He said that in your homeland, before your fans, you have perform better.   You know how to better control the situation.   Are you aware that when you're playing at home you get used to the pressure and handle the pressure pretty easily?   Do you agree with that?   
NA LI:   I'm afraid because I have the people worry that I was (indiscernible) next morning by the press, media, because no matter how I said, they're not satisfied with my answer.  
But anyway, I'm getting better and better.   
   
 Q.   The match is over, the semifinal of Asian Championship is over, and Guangzhou Heng da has won.   The official weibo announced the win ans also asked a question to Li Na.   The question is, So Li Na, we won; what do you think?  
NA LI:   I think they have ever single chance to have a better performance.   You know, soccer is very much influential throughout the world.   I watched that game as well when they were playing in a guest venue.   
Before the match I talked to Jiang Shan and other two friends.   I said, We can even gamble over the scores.   I think they had a very good performance.   I wish they would win the championship eventually.   
   
 Q.   Last year in the third round of the China Open, you played with Peng Shuai.   You have 16 double faults.   After one year, your performance has been tremendously improved.   You have a tremendous improvement in serve and volley.   The recent matches you have very good pressure to your opponent by approaching the net.   What kind of practice will you do in the future in this regard?   
NA LI:   Actually, in the last year, Carlos has already given my a lot of instructions in terms of the serve and return of serve.   
After I serve in the match, I need to have two more shots to make adjustment in order to catch up with my pace.  
Today I'm not satisfied with two points.   For example, not so satisfied with my volley performance or approach.   Probably because my opponent has a better performance and powerful serve.  
The good news is I will have one day off and better rest.   
   
 Q.   Today, according to the statistics, you and Sabine are very similar in terms of very important statistics.   What do you think is the single most important reason you won the match today?   According to data.   Something can go wrong with the data.   
NA LI:   I'm sure that today, for both of us, we didn't play to the best of our ability.   But we are working pretty hard on the courts.   I'm very glad to see that no matter how the score could be on the court, I can stay calm and control the match.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned that in whatever situation you become very calm to handle the match.   Actually, I noticed that during the match when you don't have a good performance or when you have ups and downs and emotions, Carlos gives you some gestures.   I'm not sure if you're aware of that.   Can you understand them?   Can you tell us what they are?  
NA LI:   No.  
   
 Q.   Okay.   Previously Carlos taught you how to stay calm.   For example, he's going to give you some messages.   What kind of messages does he give to you?   
NA LI:   Actually, he's still leaving some messages for me.   
   
 Q.   In the first set when you took the lead 6‑5, the spectators were cheering for you.   Was that helpful for your performance?   
NA LI:   Actually, this is rather rare in China, but it's very much normal in the French Open, because French people like to heat up the atmosphere.  
   
 Q.   Your next opponent is Kvitova.   Kvitova has played three‑set matches in her past 20 matches according to the statistics.   Do you have any specific plan to fight against her?   
NA LI:   Actually, I just finished the match today.   I have one day off tomorrow to make some adjustment.   I will not talk about how I will deal with my opponent.   I will enjoy my victory today.  
Tomorrow during the match I'm sure that my coach, team, will give me full preparation for that.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT