CHINA OPEN
October 1, 2013
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. LI/B. Jovanovski
  6‑0, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in Chinese, please.   
   
 Q.   I remember in last press conference you said that you have the best and the most stable performance in this season.   Two years ago, you said that your 2011 season has a lot of ups and downs.   You have so many changes.   Sometimes it's really challenging for athletes or players to keep stable performances.   What kind of efforts do you and your team make to keep such a stable performance?   
NA LI:   For some changes, to be honest, I can't make it public to everybody.   2011 and 2012 I experienced something that I never experienced before, so I don't know how to address those problems.   Even no one can tell me what may be the solution.  
After two years, however, I had an adjustment, you know.   I can't get mature overnight.   But anyway, in the past two years I really get mature.   I know what to do and how to do, especially Carlos joined our team.   He has a lot of valuable experience to share with me.  
Therefore, he's ready to remind me how to face up to challenges and find solutions.   
   
 Q.   In the first round you have 2‑Love set to your opponent.   Some people think that your success here in those two matches would you conducive to future success; is that right?   
NA LI:   Well, I love that statistic.   The fans have already done a lot of work for me.   To be honest, I'm very satisfied with my fitness so far, including psychological level and physical level.  
I'm very much satisfied.   In this China Open this year I am very relaxed, unlike what I did last year.   I had to make semifinals so could be qualified for the WTA finals.   
I just told my coach this China Open is like a reward or bonus for me.   I'm going to try to enjoy the match only.   
   
 Q.   Next opponent will be Lisicki.   She's playing pretty well today.   She beat Venus easy.   What's your preparation for her?  
NA LI:   I have a very good performance today as well, as you know.   Lisicki has a very strong and forehand and first serve.   
For me, what is important is to improve my return of service.   I will not give her too many free balls.  
What I have to do is give my best competence.   
   
 Q.   Just now you mentioned that in 2011 when you won the title you have already experienced something that you never experienced before.   You're not ready for those unexpected things.   Previously I have interviewed some top level players like you, so they have an analysis one this position.   Murray believed that the time for you to win the title comes too late so you might not be ready for that.   Which one will give you more pressure?   
NA LI:   Actually, it's hard to say what can give me more pressure.   To be honest, after all, the development of tennis is not having a long lasting tradition as Europe did.   
Even before I win the title, I didn't expect that I would win the title of Grand Slam.   But after I win the title, no matter for somebody else or even myself have high expectation for me.   I have goal, but I don't know how to achieve these goals.   This is my paradox.   
   
 Q.   (Question off mic.)   
NA LI:   My coach Carlos has already coached some top players, winners of Grand Slam title.  
So before every single tournament he's going to talk a lot with me, which I don't like too much.   
   
 Q.   Last time when you win, you went to the Rolex box.   I want to ask you, did you have to work out a way to complete the mandatory duties assigned by sponsors, and on the other hand save a lot of physical energy?   
NA LI:   Think I'm doing pretty good this year.   I thank to all the sponsors, because they were trying to arrange all the commercial times based on my schedule.  
So in most cases, we will do a lot of commercial activities at the end of the year.   
   
 Q.   Actually, Wu Di has already finished his match in men's single.   I think you are also from Wuhan.   You are good friends with Wu Di.   Did you communicate with him after his match?   
NA LI:   Yes, I have.   He told me if he wins the first round he's going to treat me to dinner for one week.   If he lost, he will threat me for two days.  
After when he took the lead at 4‑1, I think, Well, he's going to make it.   Then I have free dinner for one week.   
However, when he lost the match, I ask him, You lose because you were afraid to treat me to dinner; is that right?   
Of course this is a joke.   I think he has a really good performance today.   But actually, he's not that experienced compared with his opponent, Isner.   
So I'm sure that he will have a better performance in next match in Shanghai Masters.   
   
 Q.   First of all, congratulations for this success.   Today is the first day of the national holiday.   I realize that a lot of spectators came to the court to cheer for you.   China Open has already become another important festival for the fans.   What may be the difference between this year and the previous years?   
NA LI:   I think every your a different.   This is the tenth anniversary of the China Open.   It has become a mandatory tournament.   Fans and players and the organization are growing together.   
Second question, (indiscernible) didn't call me in the past three years.   How could I try to invite him to do her nail?   Yes, I met her today.   I ask her, I wait for your call for three years.   Actually, she didn't call me.   How could I know her arrangement or schedule?   
   
 Q.   Not long ago Anna Chakvetadze has retired.   I know you had a very good relationship with her.   I guess you partner with her before for doubles.   Are you aware of the news that she retired?   If yes, did you have a communication with her?  
NA LI:   No.   We don't have any communication.   She retired officially from WTA.   She was very much in impacted by her injury.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT