CHINA OPEN
September 29, 2013
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. LI/D. Hantuchova
  6‑0, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   First question in English, please. 

Q.   Just want your opinion on how you felt that game went.   The second set seemed to be a bit more challenging than the first set. 
NA LI:   I think I have pretty good start of the match until 4‑Love in the second set.   So I saw it was like 4‑Love, I was like, Okay.   Maybe I should relax a little bit.
But, you know, in this level I cannot do this.   You can see the score in second set.   If I was relax a little bit, just give opponent all the time have the chance.
So, yeah.   But happy in the end I can win the match.   So at least pass the first round.   Ready for next round. 
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in Chinese. 

Q.   Congratulations to pass the first round.   I interviewed Carlos and he mentioned that last year you lose to Sharapova in the semifinals because you're very much tired.   You just came back from Tokyo.   This year after US Open you had a very long vacation.   In that case, are you having a better performance this year?
NA LI:   I think one year has been passed.   A lot has already changed.   Even the match that I had last week will be very much different from this match.   I think there is no comparison between two matches. 
Of course, after all, last year, after I finished China Open, I know I was qualified for WTA finals.   This year I don't have too much pressure. 

Q.   According to record between you and Hantuchova, you have fought six times before. 
NA LI:   But I win the match in two sets not three sets this time.

Q.   Are you a little bit unexpect for the final score?   Are you having full preparation before the match? 
NA LI:   Actually, I don't think that much because I think she has a very flat stroke.   Yesterday when I was practicing on the court, Carlos told me that I have to learn to battle a little bit. 
I think that I can't follow the normal way that I play.   Today Carlos emphasized I have to lower my body a little bit, so that's why probably the strategy I made was in line with the style of Hantuchova.

Q.   Can you make comments on your performance in Grand Slams?   You have a very big difference in the first half of the season and the second half of the season.   This year you are having a better performance?
NA LI:   I think Grand Slam's just one part of the tournament that I played in one season.   I think I have the best stable performance ever in all the Grand Slams. 
Not only refers to the performance in all the Grand Slam tournaments. 

Q.   When you are receiving the interview from CCTV you mentioned that you don't have very good performance in the first part of the season.   You said Wimbledon will be regarded as the last tournament you're supposed to participate.   Fans were scared to hear that news.   If your performance in next months is not that good, are you seriously that you're supposed to retire? 
NA LI:   I think it's not because I don't have a very good performance.   Simply because I was very much distracted by some external factors.   I cannot control those factors by myself.
Sometimes you are overwhelmed by some gossip.   I have a very deep feeling in this regard. 

Q.   You said that you don't work out a very clear card.   How are you supposed to interact with Djokovic, you improve advise those game rules on the court? 
NA LI:   Actually, how to play the game is decided by the emcee of that match.   Actually, even before the exhibition match, I don't come up with idea of how the game will be carried out.
Even Djokovic arrived in Beijing and knew of that day.   I met him in the p.m. and interview by the media. 

Q.   Djokovic said that he's very much proud to have a match with a national hero.   What's your comment?
NA LI:   Well, actually, I would have very good opportunity to have some charity work with top level male players.   I only believe that Djokovic is too naughty.   He's always showing or performing like a joke. 
Everybody is enjoying his performances.   Everybody enjoy the very relaxed atmosphere. 

Q.   I noticed that when you are doing the match on the court, Carlos keep taking some notes.   After the match, does he give you some comments about your performances?   Carlos believed that your performance this year in China Open would have to change from last year in China Open.   Do you think this is positive comments on your performance?
NA LI:   Currently, if we know we are supposed to have a day off tomorrow, we don't have any comments regarding the match.   We are going to allocate a half hour or to make a summary of the match that we have already played and make a preparation for the match we're supposed to have next time.
When I notice that Carlos is going to take a lot of notes I feel very much nervous because I know he has a lot of to share with me.   I'm sure of that.   He is satisfied with my performance this season.   After all, I don't have too much ups and downs compared with what I had in the previous years. 
From the match that I played early this year, I think generally I have a very stable performance.   I only have a very bad performance in one or two tournament.   So I think this year would be identified as the year that I have the most stable performance. 

Q.   Couple years ago, the year before last, you get to know Federer.   But this year you have a very good interaction with Djokovic.   I believe that after you win the title of Grand Slam, you're networking with those male players is getting larger and larger.   If you had a chance to watch the performance, which performance or whose match are you supposed to visit? 
NA LI:   I can't identify the specific person.   I think is as long as it's proved to be a very high‑quality match, I think I would definitely buy the ticket. 
For every single player, I think they have already been work pretty hard.   We have ten months matches in one seen.   We have to travel globally.   Also, you can't relax.   I think we can only have some very short relaxes during November, and then you will prepare for next season.
I'm sure that everybody will work pretty hard for his goal.   In that case, I think he or she will deserve our respect. 
Whether they have a very, very good result in the future is not very important reason to decide whether we're going to buy the ticket for his or her show.

Q.   If you have exhibition show with Djokovic, which one you supposed to choose?
NA LI:   Anyway, I don't have to play only with the top level players.   I think everybody will work out his best way to help somebody else. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT