U.S. OPEN
September 6, 2013
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. WILLIAMS/N. Li
      6‑0, 6‑3

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You were able to turn things around after a very disappointing first set. 
    NA LI:   Yeah.

Q.   Particularly that second to last game.   The eighth game you fought off six or seven ‑‑six match points, I believe.   Talk about the fact that you were able to come back and fight in the end.   Do you take consolation from that?
    NA LI:   Yeah, I was feeling also the same, you know.   In the end, finally I can play tennis (smiling.)
    Like even the first set or beginning of the second set I was feeling, how do you say, it's not about the technique, you know.   It's about the problem about myself.   I cannot face two ‑‑I cannot face to the problem.   When the problem, I was against.
    First time in the semis.   I mean, I was think about the situation, but I never think about these things.   So I was feeling, yeah, I need more practice.   Is not about the technique.   So maybe I was wish after, I don't know, six months I can face again.

Q.   You have been talking a lot about the change in your style, coming to net more, becoming more aggressive.   You can see how that's worked for you in this tournament.   Even when the match is just over, are you able to look back in the tournament and take a lot of positives out of it? 
    NA LI:   I mean, of course.   At least after I try to change a little bit, as much as I can come to the net.   I improve my serve.   Of course, not today, but...   (smiling). 
    Looking for all the tournament, I improve a lot first serve.   I think I have a lot high percentage when come to the win.   Yeah, I was feeling, you know, still was able to come to the semis still was pretty good. 
    I was happy.   After even doesn't matter win or lose the match, you still, how you say, you can face to what you should do for next step.

Q.   It was a tougher match than the scoreline showed, and it took 13 minutes to win one game.   I just wanted to ask you about what are the special challenges of facing Serena?   What does it feel like to be on the other side of the net from her?
    NA LI:   I mean, I would like ‑‑ I would say before.   I mean, today doesn't matter who is the opponent.   Problem is myself, because today I cannot face to the problem, you know. 
    So even, I don't know, even today I was play against maybe the ranking 100, still the same problem, you know.
    So, I mean, I really have to face to this thing for next step.

Q.   What was the situation in the first set?   You had a lot of unforced errors, double faults.   Were you nervous?   What was it that you were able to kind of recover in the second?
    NA LI:   I mean, should not be like nervous because not first time to play semis.   But when I walk to the court I was feeling the court so big.   I mean, even my side, you know, I was feeling like football court. 
    Also Serena say ‑‑ I was feeling like table tennis.   I cannot focus.   I think this I have to find out.   Yeah. 

Q.   The one time you beat Serena you lost the first set 6‑Love.   Did that come into your mind at all after you lost the first set?
    NA LI:   No, not at all.   I mean, every match is different. 

Q.   I want to ask sort of a fun question after a tough loss. 
    NA LI:   Okay.   I like that (smiling). 

Q.   We know you said that Carlos saved your marriage.   Now, with Serena, she's being coached by her boyfriend.   Now that you have been through all this, what would be the advice you would give to Serena for being coached?
    NA LI:   Don't be married, okay?   Yeah.   (laughter). 
    How you say, if Dennis is not my husband I was feeling we are still working, you know.   But after marriage is different, totally different, because men is totally change (laughter). 

Q.   So it's the guy's fault? 
    NA LI:   Yeah.   The woman is never fault, so... 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT