U.S. OPEN
August 30, 2013
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. LI/L. Robson
      6‑2, 7‑5

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   First of all, a very impressive match.   Are you pleased with the match, the way you played?
    NA LI:   Yeah, I mean, I was a little bit surprised because today I have a lot of aces (smiling).   So it was like, Wow. 
    No, because after match I was, how you say, my physio say at least over 10.   I was like 8 or something.   My husband was saying, no, I think even less, like 6. 
    When I come here before I have the lunch with my team, I was ask, I say, Hey, guess how much aces I have?   And he was like, 11.   I was like, huh?   Are you counting?   He say, yeah, I was counting.   I say, why I should ask you? 
    Yeah, but I think for the last year, I think this year I was improve a lot, especially for the serve, also come to the net.   Yeah.

Q.   Was there any particular delight in beating Laura, seeing as she was the one who saw you out of the tournament last year?
    NA LI:   Yeah, I know.   I mean, after, like after second round or something like exact like draw last year.   I was like special today.   I was pretty nervous before the match start, so I was try to talk to Carlos.
    I say, Hey, Carlos, look, I was so nervous.   He, how do you say, he say something to help me to like speak out and to put pressure out, you know.
    So I was feeling‑‑ after talk I was feeling much, much better.   Because before I never try to share the feeling with the team.

Q.   You talked about a different approach to the game and coaching and so forth.   How have you changed as a player since last year?
    NA LI:   I mean, at least this year I'm in the second week (smiling). 
    Last year now I think I already finish the Open. 
    I was feeling this year I tried to play same level start beginning of the year until now, so not like before.   Always have up, down, up, down.   Yeah. 

Q.   Do you feel comfortable going to the net, or it's something you almost have to remind yourself to do?
    NA LI:   No.   After, if you use, I was feeling now even come to the net even more comfortable, really.

Q.   The changes you're talking about from the past year, what do you think are the main reasons for those?
    NA LI:   You mean for myself, or... 

Q.   Just the changes you were commenting on.   What brought those changes about?   What are the reasons? 
    THE MODERATOR:   Why did you make all those changes to your game? 
    NA LI:   Oh, why?   Because I want improve myself.   I mean, of course change like half half.   After you change maybe you lose everything before you have, but on other half you can even more better. 
    Because I know if I didn't change maybe I can stay like, I don't know, top 20.   But I really want to push me go to another high level.   Yeah. 

Q.   Are there suggestions you make to Carlos, or are those suggestions that Carlos makes to you?
    NA LI:   I think both, you know.   I mean, when he was coaching me also is challenge for him, because I was pretty close to 31. 
    He was coaching me of course if he say something I say No, I didn't want change.   Of course we are finished.   But because I was trusting a lot, I like to change, as well. 

Q.   It's been a couple years, but having won a Grand Slams, do you draw upon that experience to give you confidence as you go into the second week, as you get deeper into the tournament?
    NA LI:   I mean, I don't know how is other player, but for me I never think how is the semifinal or final, you know, because for tennis you have to do something.   It's not only thinking about.
    So, yeah, when every Grand Slam for me, first thing is pass the first round and then try to be second week.   Then we will see.   Yeah. 

Q.   Do you feel like you have the game to go deep, to win?   Do you think your game is where it needs to be to win this tournament?
    NA LI:   I mean, still far away to win the tournament, you know.   Now just beginning of the second week.   I just in the second week, so still have a lot of matches.   I have to improve myself. 
    So, yeah, I will try the best on court. 

Q.   Of all the companies that sponsor you, Nike and Mercedes and Rolex, do you have any favorite free gear that you have been given to you by those companies?
    NA LI:   I like all sponsor (smiling). 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT