DONGFENG MOTOR WUHAN OPEN
September 23, 2014
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Li Na.   
  (Through translation.)  
   
 Q.   Wuhan Open will be held here for the first time, and the many fans have bought the tickets for the purpose of watching your games.   Do you have anything to say to these fans?  
NA LI:   Since you have raised this question in Wuhan dialect, I will answer in the same language.   I think the media, both domestic and the foreign ones, have seen the letter that I posted on my microblog, and after seeing this letter you will know the reason why I chose to retire.   
So I want to take this opportunity to thank the Wuhan people for giving me the opportunity to play Wuhan Open here.   
If you have read the letter, you must have known that I, in this letter, I wanted to thank many people who have been in support of me for these years and you will naturally know the reason for my retirement.  
   
 Q.   On September the 19th when you announced your retirement, there appeared in your letter of retirement a long list of people who you want to thank, including two German doctors.   My question is, first, what kind of role the two doctors played in your retirement, and how is your injury right now?   The second question, according to your biography, there are two methods to treat your injury at your knees, but up to now you have not exercised any one of them.   So in the future, will you choose one of the two methods?  
NA LI:   Thank you for your question.   Actually, among the two persons you mentioned in your question, there was only one doctor.   And actually, when I made the decision to retire at the end of last week, at that time I was still recovering from the injury at my knee because I really wanted to grasp this opportunity to get back on the court.  
And the second question, I did this injury at the end of July.   Actually, whether or not I chose to retire, the most important thing is my health.   So whether or not my career will continue, I will try hard to recover from the injury.   
   
 Q.   First I would like to welcome you to come back to your hometown, and as tennis fans, I would like to thank you for the matches you played during your career and the surprises you brought to Chinese people.   This event is the first held in Wuhan, and this is the third day of the main draw.   Many superstars have appeared on the court, and a large crowd of audience have come to see it.   So do you have anything to say to these fans?  
NA LI:   First I am very proud that there has been a WTA event at such high level held in Wuhan, which is a very good thing for the tennis fans not only in Wuhan but also in China, because they have got the opportunity to come face to face with these players and they can watch these high‑level matches.   
And, more importantly, they can learn more about the life of these players, because normally they learn life of players only through broadcast on TV.   Off courts they get little understanding of these players, but now they have the opportunity.   
   
 Q.   I have three questions.   First, Peng Shuai is constantly rising very rapidly on the tennis court, and many reporters are regarding Peng Shuai as your successor.   According to your understanding of Peng Shuai, do you think that Peng Shuai has the potential to become the new leader of China's female tennis players?   Secondly, after so many years of playing tennis and leaving the courts, will you miss the days of playing tennis?   Thirdly, in this evening there will be a match in which your friend, close friend, Kvitova will play.   Do you have anything to say anything to her?  
NA LI:   First, I believe China's tennis enjoys a bright future.   I don't want to draw comparisons between other tennis players and me, because everyone comes from a different background with different processes of growing up.   But I believe that China's tennis will get better in the future.  
Secondly, without love it is impossible for me to keep on playing on tennis court for so many years, so after retirement, my goal is to set up my own tennis institute, and starting from this institute I hope to help more children to have the opportunity of learning playing tennis.  
Thirdly, just now I came across Kvitova and exchanged some greetings, but due to my tight schedule, we did not have a long conversation.   But maybe we will talk later.  
   
 Q.   (In English.)   Earlier your coach, Carlos Rodriguez, discussed not being able to work with you for various reasons.   How much did that influence your decision to retire?  
NA LI:   Well, first, the reason of my retirement has nothing to do with Carlos or myself.   It is due to a third party.   When we said good‑bye to each other, we all cried.   So we are actually reluctant to leave each other.   
The most important reason for my retirement is that my body cannot withstand the strength of the matches, and I want to recover from my injuries.   
   
 Q.   You thanked so many people, and just now the journalists extended their thanks to you.   My question is:   Have you ever thanked yourself because you have managed to overcome so many difficulties?   
NA LI:   I'm very proud of myself.   Actually, after writing that letter on the microblog, I realized that I have never taken little time to thank myself.   Now, at the age of 32, I want to thank the Li Na at the age of 15, because it is because of the perseverance in my youthfulness that I have achieved my goals.  
So maybe today at the age of 32, Li Na is not as tough as, as strong as she was in the age of 15.   But still, I want to thank myself.   
   
 Q.   I have two questions.   Maybe after today's press conference you will disappear from the vision of public for long time, so next time when we see you, what do you think your role will be:   a mother or president of tennis institute or the ambassador of charity?   The second question, just in this very press conference hall we had interviewed many WTA stars who all have sent their good wishes to your retirement.   They all cherished the memory of playing matches against you, and they love your funny, humorous speeches.   Today your husband Jiang Shan is also present here, so behind this tough decision, how did you two communicate with each other?  
NA LI:   The first question, actually I am quite interested in all of the three roles you mentioned.   After retirement, I want to set up a tennis institute and engage in children charity to help more kids.   
You know, after so many years of competition on the courts, I really want to say sorry to my friends and family members, because, you know, in holidays and weekends, we really had little time to get together with each other.   
Of course, the role of being a mother is actually part of our life, and I believe there will be a day that I will become a mother.   
Secondly, about my husband, Jiang Shan, actually, we go everywhere together, and I really want to thank him for his company over the years.   No matter what kind of decision I made, he's always around me and support me.   
   
 Q.   About your decision of retirement, what is the view of your mother?   And have you eaten your favorite foods your mother made for you?  
NA LI:   My mother is not very interested in sports, but over the years she has always been in support of me and around me, accompanying me, so I want to thank my mother.   
Due to my tight schedule, I have not got time to come back home.   Thank you.   
(Applause.)  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT