U.S. OPEN
August 28, 2013
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. LI/S. Arvidsson
      6‑2, 6‑2 
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Good performance out there today.   Are you happy with the way you played?  
    NA LI:   Absolutely.   Of course.   
    I mean, yeah, because last time I played her was like very tough second set.   So, I mean, after win looks like easy match, but is not really easy.   
    Yeah, I was like today I was improve a little bit serve and come to the net.   Also serve/volley, as well.  
   
 Q.   We don't have a crystal ball yet, but you may be seeing Laura in the next match.   
    NA LI:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   She's obviously your last match last year.   
    NA LI:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Possible matchup with Laura, your thoughts?  
    NA LI:   After last year I think both player improve a lot.   I really looking forward to play against her.   
    For sure really challenging, lefty, aggressive player.   Also, I can see prove myself like after one year whether I can do better than last year.  
   
 Q.   How satisfied are you with the way you're playing right now?  
    NA LI:   Oh, how happy?   Was pretty happy, because, I mean, at least I do what I have the plan before.   I follow the plan, game plan, what I should do on the court.   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   How difficult is it to start working with a new coach?   What does he have to do?   What do you have to do to adjust to each other so that it's a good working relationship?   And how long did it take for you and Carlos?  
    NA LI:   I mean, I was feeling pretty ‑how you say ‑ pretty good working with him.   Of course first one or two months we have to ‑‑he didn't talk too much, because he have to see what I'm doing.   
    After, I think especially in the winter training, you know, we talk a lot.   I don't know.   Not every day, but every second day we talk a lot to know each other pretty much.  
   
 Q.   Is that the most important thing, to know each other, or the technical things he can help you with?  
    NA LI:   I mean, everyone is different.  
   
 Q.   For you.   
    NA LI:   For me, I was feeling pretty happy the way he's like now we are communication.  
   
 Q.   Is it funny that men and women both at a certain age still need coaches.   What do you need a coach to help you do?  
    NA LI:   I was feeling coach for me not only is about tennis coaching.   He teach me a lot like off of the court, as well.   
    So, yeah, is not only about what I should do on the court.   You know, he tell me a lot experience about especially in press conference (smiling).   Communication with friend, with family, you know, so many things.  
   
 Q.   Could you ever imagine not having a coach and being out here?  
    NA LI:   If I have to have coach, I have my husband.   Is the same.   
   
 Q.   With the rain, you just beat the rain, so I'm sure you're happy about that.   Not all players are in the same situation; some are playing their first‑round match today or tonight.   What do you think about the scheduling here?  
    NA LI:   Actually, I was a little bit happy, you know, because at least I'm done for my job today.  
    Yeah, when was colder out, I was so lucky before the rain come that I was I finish the match so I don't have to wait and warming up and coming to the court again.  
   
 Q.   But what about everyone else?  
    NA LI:   Is tough for them.   You know, for me, just relax the day and just do whatever I want to do (smiling).  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT