U.S. OPEN
August 26, 2013
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. LI /O. Govortsova
  6‑2, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Are you happy with the result and the way you played out there?
NA LI:   Yeah, I mean, you know, after winning the match everything for me was good at least.   Always tough match first match because you never know what happen on the court.
Yeah, for me, I try to win the first match; otherwise if you lose, nothing to say after because you already left in the tournament.   Yeah. 

Q.   How do you feel about the way you're playing?   You've done semifinals in Toronto and Cincinnati.   Do you feel right now you're poised to play hard courts well and you're poised to go far in this tournament?
NA LI:   I think when I was clay‑court player I always lose early.   Yeah. 
I mean, was pretty good, because at least in the summer I have two semis in hard court, when hard court season start.
So I was really happy the way I was hit the ball now on the court, so I just try to continue.   Yeah. 

Q.   Some players say that the US Open is very difficult to win because mentally it's the end of the season.   Also physically, you know, it's the end of the season, last slam of the year.   Which is more difficult for you when it comes to this tournament, the mental or the physical?
NA LI:   I think maybe mental.   Yeah, because for me I feeling the physical for me is not problem at all if I'm not injured, because I was working so hard.
But for mental, you know, you have the first tournament like first week of the year, so you always continue the whole time.   Of course sometimes you are feeling tired, especially when the US Open, because last Grand Slam, you know.
But still, I believe every player, they try their best. 

Q.   Time Magazine named you one of the 100 most influential people. 
NA LI:   Yes.

Q.   That's quite an honor.   It obviously isn't just about what you do on the court, because that wouldn't qualify.   But the influence you have on other people.   Talk about what that honor meant and your thoughts on that. 
NA LI:   I mean, I would like to say I was so, how do you say, so proud I grew up in China.   China has a huge market. 
So I don't know, maybe this is one part of the reason why.   And also maybe I was feeling because never has Asia player win Grand Slam singles, I mean, so also this is a huge one. 
So many thing, both, everything, like plus, plus. 

Q.   Is it meaningful to you that you could influence young Chinese girls and young Chinese boys as well to aspire to be great in this sport?
NA LI:   I mean, of course, right now tennis in China improve a lot.   Not only what I'm doing, because before, like maybe even 20 years, 30 years ago, still have player to continue this sport.   That's why we continue doing well now.
I think I was change mind a little bit now, because before I was feeling okay.   I just doing my job to play good tennis.   But after these two years I feeling is not only about what I should do, you know, because sometimes if you training on the court it's not only for the match.   If you're training, so many people watch what you do.
So you really have to prepare for yourself, you know.   Maybe if you say something bad or do something wrong the children, say, Oh, look, she do this.
Also, I feeling this is not good for the improve tennis.

Q.   Is it fair to say that puts extra pressure?   You're in a profession that is a lot of pressure, you know, aside from that, but you have added pressure as a result, do you think?
NA LI:   I think before two or three years ago I cannot hung in there because I was feeling maybe I was crash because of the pressure.
But now if you student of life, I have to learn every day.   So this couple years I think I was stronger a little bit.   Not too much.   But still learn every day to, how do you say, like the pressure, like the way.
I was feeling pressure can push me go forward.

Q.   When is the last time you broke a racquet?
NA LI:   Broken a racquet? 

Q.   Yes. 
NA LI:   I think at least ‑‑you mean on the court? 

Q.   Yeah. 
NA LI:   Five, six years ago.   I love my racquet.   I never broken it (smiling). 

Q.   Do you ever want to break it and you just stop yourself because of what you said, that you were concerned about what people might say or things?   Have you just not wanted to break a racquet in the last six years?
NA LI:   I mean, if you lose the point, is not business about your racquet.   It's about yourself.   I mean, you have the thing about why you lose the point. 
I mean, if you broken the racquet, if you lose again, you still have to do the same thing.   You have to control yourself on the court.   Yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT