WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 15, 2013
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. LI/A. Kerber
  6‑4, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions?

Q.   Na, quick turnaround from a late match last night.   Did you struggle at all physically?   It looked like a really good match for you. 
NA LI:   I mean, I was feeling like it's okay.   Yesterday I was playing a three‑set match.   After the physio was ask how you feeling, I was saying, No problem at all.   I can play another three sets, no problem. 
Yeah, think because after two sets pretty short.   So the feeling was pretty good. 

Q.   And, obviously, you play Aga next, always a difficult opponent.   Played her last at Wimbledon.   So thoughts on that? 
NA LI:   I just talk to her, and she said, Look, after I play against you in the Wimbledon, I was tape the next day.   It's your fault.   I say, If I win, I will say the same thing to you.   Always a tough match, because I think this year we already played three times. 
Never has it easy between us.

Q.   Is there anyone on tour that plays the way she does? 
NA LI:   I think in the tour everyone is different.   I mean, maybe some players play like similar, but they didn't have one like exactly the same, no. 

Q.   So the big news today was Marion Bartoli. 
NA LI:   It's from yesterday.

Q.   From yesterday.   Sorry.   Yes. 
NA LI:   I think I was the latest one yesterday.   So I'm not sure if I was the first to know the news, but when I heard the news, I was feeling a little bit shocked because, I mean, just one half month ago she just won Wimbledon.   She should have a lot of confidence to win more titles. 
But at the same time, I can understand what happened, because of course you've got a lot of pressure.   And also she was pretty hard work, the way she's working. 
So really she already decided to retire.   I wish she can enjoy the life.

Q.   Did you ever think about retiring after you won the French Open? 
NA LI:   Even I was playing so bad, I still didn't think about retiring, no. 
I think because I play tennis because I love tennis.   If I was deciding to retire, that means maybe my body couldn't handle anymore or maybe so many injuries.   Yeah.

Q.   And that's what she said.   She said that it was the injuries and physically she couldn't continue to work as hard as she had been working before.   So for you, you haven't felt that.   You feel your body is still ready to go and to compete for the big titles? 
NA LI:   I don't know.   Maybe sometimes I was feeling I'm tired, but at the same time, I think, Okay, just give yourself one more chance to see. 
So always like this, you know.   So that's why I'm still here.

Q.   When you retire, do you think you would do it suddenly like that or plan it out? 
NA LI:   I think I like to plan out.   I mean, because you know exactly how is the body feeling.   So for sure you will know before.   Yeah. 
But everyone's different, so... 

Q.   I think you were talking about enjoying it.   How important is it?   Because tennis is a job to you as well.   So how important is it to you to have fun out there? 
NA LI:   Before I was feeling I just do my best job, that's all.   But after I win the French Open I was feeling this is not only about tennis.   It's more about business, you know.   So many things around you. 
Even, how you say, like before, you just play.   You don't have to care about so many things, but now you have to care, like, oh, if I was training I like threw the racquet or something and maybe the young player they saw this, Ah, it's not good. 
Even I was so angry, I still couldn't do that because, I don't know, somewhere else, the young children, they saw that.   So it's a bad thing for them. 
So many times, I was like, Okay, calm down.   Yeah.

Q.   I saw you on the practice court practicing with Carlos to come to the net more.   So is that kind of the next evolution, phase of your game, the next improvement in your game you're looking to add? 
NA LI:   Yeah, when start at Wimbledon, we already have to go, yeah, just more come to the net.   Even now, you know.   After you tell me the truth, even now I will challenge every chance, you know, even I have challenge.

Q.   You're not going to forgive me for that? 
NA LI:   Never.

Q.   Do you blame me? 
NA LI:   No, no.   I mean, it's good I got the information, so yeah.

Q.   Fair enough. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT