ROGERS CUP WOMEN
August 10, 2013
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. CIRSTEA/L. Na
  6‑1, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Talk about the match.   You had some good moments in the second set.   Then at the end there especially in the tiebreaker it sort of got away from you.   
NA LI:   Yeah, I thought I was feeling maybe I can win the second set and then we can come to a final set, as well.  
But when I was 5‑2 up and even tiebreak 4‑1   up I think I still have chance, but today I didn't catch the chance.   I just lose the chance to come to the final set.  
I think today she was ‑‑she was, how do you say, is a little bit play different, because before she always shoot, shoot.   But today she was play sometime like topspin.   So I was feeling always topspin I have more chance, but I always use over to play.   So that's why today I got a lot of mistake, give her a lot of really free point.  
   
 Q.   So even in the tiebreaker you're up 4‑1, and you commit two double faults there, but you still felt she was just playing at a little bit higher of a level?  
NA LI:   I mean, maybe because she got a lot of confidence right now.   So sometime I was feeling she couldn't hit a winner, but the ball come to you as a winner (smiling).   
It's very tough.   But, I mean, nothing to say, because today I didn't play best of tennis, but at least I try on the court.  
   
 Q.   So today's match was much different the way she was playing than Australian Open in January?  
NA LI:   Maybe because I didn't play ‑‑I didn't play same level like Melbourne, so that's why I give her a lot of chance, you know.   Yes.   
   
 Q.   Why do you think you weren't able to play the same level today?   What happened?  
NA LI:   I don't think everyone can play same level every day.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel tired?   Do you feel tired after...   
NA LI:   Sorry?   
   
 Q.   Do you feel tired after the matches this week?   Do you think you're tired?  
NA LI:   I'm not first time to play professional tour.   Also, this is not my first year.   So I have to used to do that.   
   
 Q.   After the first set your husband came out.   
NA LI:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   That seemed to up your game.   What did he say to you?  
NA LI:   I mean, you know, I offer him to come to the court.   I never listen what he say (smiling).   
   
 Q.   He didn't say Carlos sent an e‑mail or anything?  
NA LI:   Of course he say something positive.   I don't know how to quote English, but in Chinese like left in, right out, you know (pointing to ear).   
He's very ‑‑I know he can see even more clear out of the court, but sometimes you have to control yourself on the court, you know.   So this is totally different story.   
   
 Q.   Are you satisfied overall with your performance this week, given it was your first tournament in four weeks?  
NA LI:   I was feeling not bad.   At least in the semis.   I got some points.   Yeah.   
Of course lose the match was a little bit always a little bit sad, but still have to find the positive way.   Still first tournament after Wimbledon, so yeah, of course I have to think about so many things.   I was doing pretty good job, so just continue for next month.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel like you have your rhythm now despite the loss, meaning are you feeling the ball the way you want to feel it?  
NA LI:   I mean, sometimes it's tough, because it's not everything is come to what do you want to do, you know.   Sometimes if you like to hit the ball, but maybe windy or maybe the court or maybe the feet didn't come perfect.   But how do you say, what I can do is maybe start tomorrow, start next time to training, we can ‑‑because Carlos will come next tournament, so I can talk to him a little bit or also the team a little bit to see whether we can improve a little bit.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT