ROGERS CUP WOMEN
August 9, 2013
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. LI/D. Cibulkova
  7‑6, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   It looked like a solid victory.   Can you talk a little bit about the match. 
NA LI:   Yeah.   I mean, today I was feeling a little bit different than yesterday because the opponent hit the ball different, but I was feeling today is even more tired than yesterday.   I don't know.   Maybe I have a tough match day before. 
But, yeah, I think about maybe todayI didn't have a lot of winners, but I was checking information and I still have 33.   I thought I still can hit a lot of winners in match.

Q.   The second set was much easier than the first.   What did you change in your game?
NA LI:   Actually I didn't change anything, really.   I mean, after first I was think about, okay, one set in the pocket, so feeling more confident, of course. 
So, yeah, second set just try to continue to hit the ball, because in the first set was a little bit, I don't know, I tried to control a little bit so give her a lot of chance she can hit.   So I was more ‑‑I was running more first set.   Yeah.

Q.   So by the second set you were more comfortable with her style?   You sort of knew more what to do?
NA LI:   Yeah.   Because I think beginning of the match I was feeling more control the ball, you know, but totally wrong because she's the hitter.
So, yeah, but I was still happy because it's very tough to win the first set.   Got first set.   I was think about, okay, one set.   Second set you should just continue to do what you should do.   You don't have to be looking at what the opponent do.

Q.   So this summer is sort of like last summer, no?   You started very well again.   Last summer you reached the final here, won Cincinnati.   Now you're back in the semifinals.   Is it hard courts?   Is it here?   What's going on there?
NA LI:   I don't know.   I mean, last year and also this year after Wimbledon I was feeling‑‑ I don't know.   Maybe just I like the hard court season.   So that's why I doing well. 
But nothing change. 

Q.   Is it the bounce of the ball?   Is it the speed of hard courts?   Is it how you move?
NA LI:   No, because hard court for all the year, eight months for hard court season.   So I think everyone was used to play in the hard court.   But clay court and grass court is, how you say, challenging for all the players.

Q.   Except for someone who won Roland Garros. 
NA LI:   Yes (smiling).   Someone, yeah. 

Q.   Can you just talk about, in case you play Kvitova again, just your memories of last year's final?
NA LI:   I mean, every time I was play Kvitova, always tough match.   Like I think we play five times.   Yeah. 
So always tough.   Because I think we play pretty similar, pretty similar.   So both was hitter and, how you say, play more flat, not like topspin.   So of course a lot of running on the court, for sure.

Q.   Do you mind playing left‑handed players, or does it matter to you?
NA LI:   I mean, I have no choice.   So I have to play.

Q.   But do you feel like you have to adjust a little bit?
NA LI:   Of course left hand and right hand a little bit different, especially on the serve.   So, yeah, maybe I should work out a little bit tomorrow for warming up to see how is my husband's left side.   (Laughter). 

Q.   Going back to facing Cibulkova, I don't think you have ever lost to her in four meetings.   She returns a lot of balls.   What in your game makes it easier for you to face her?
NA LI:   I mean, I didn't lose her, but every time is tough.   I mean, never has easy one, because she was running pretty fast on the court, and she can hit everywhere on the court. 
So I have to ready for every second; otherwise I will lose the point, you know.   So, I mean, it's very tough opponent against, so yeah. 

Q.   Have you done anything off‑court in Toronto, anything notable?
NA LI:   I just go Chinatown for twice, yeah, to find the Chinese food.   Yeah, because I have three days I didn't eat the rice, so yesterday I was, like, No, I have to go.   Otherwise I was feeling I lose energy, you know.
So I talk to physio, I say, I have to go Chinatown.   I don't care like Asia food or something.   I just need rice. 

Q.   How was the Chinese food?
NA LI:   Pretty good.   Really.   I mean, yeah.   I think maximum for me is three days no rice.   Yeah.   (Smiling). 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT