ROGERS CUP WOMEN
August 8, 2013
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. LI/A. Ivanovic
  3‑6, 6‑1, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Can you just talk about the match?   Kind of up and down, coming back in the third.   
NA LI:   Yeah, pretty tough match, of course.   Last time we are meeting was like seven years ago.   I mean, for sure, before the match, I think about is tough match.   I was a little bit surprised, because first she was like play more aggressive, so I was feeling even the first set I didn't have the time to prepare my game plan.  
So, yeah, start of second I was feeling, okay, I try to hit more ball back to the court to see if I have the chance to turn the match.  
   
 Q.   So you turned the match in the second set.   Then she gets up 5‑2 in the third set and you weren't quite playing your best then, but from then on it seemed like you really picked your level up.   
NA LI:   Oh, yeah?   
   
 Q.   Seemed like it, no?   You felt like you played bad the whole third set?  
NA LI:   No, no, no.   I was feeling, how do you say, if I play a little bit soft she will attack a lot, you know.  
So this is not ‑‑doesn't mean I was play bad match.   I was feeling today I really happy the way I was playing, because sometimes you couldn't play best but it was just hung in there in the end.   You still can win the match.  
Of course today I was play pretty good when, like, especially in the final set when I was come back even in the tiebreak.  
   
 Q.   So you felt like she served for the match at 5‑3 and you hit some good winners there.   Then to hold.   And even in the tiebreak I think she only had one unforced error, so a lot of it was just, you know, your winners there, you hitting winners.   
NA LI:   I mean, I think this is the way if I wait to let her have mistake to win the point, maybe she just boom, boom, boom, win all the time.   (Smiling).   
This is also, because Carlos is not here, but I still got e‑mail from him, so he say if I need to win the match I have to think about what I should do.   So I don't have care about what opponent do, you know.  
So for all the match I still think about, okay, you have to hit the ball all the time.   You couldn't wait.  
   
 Q.   You've played so many important matches in your life, but when you go into the tiebreaker, any nerves at all?  
NA LI:   I mean, especially today even come to the tiebreak I didn't think about the score, really.   This maybe too focused.   I don't know.   Maybe.   
   
 Q.   Which is a good thing, huh?  
NA LI:   Yeah, it is.   (Smiling).   Anything I have to find a positive way.     
   
 Q.   You mentioned an e‑mail from Carlos.   It's been a while since you have been with him, but can you just talk about the transition going from, you know, just having your husband around to a coach that's pretty hands‑on, it looks like.   Can you just talk about doing it at an older age, kind of how it has‑‑ has it changed you mentally at all?  
NA LI:   Yeah, I mean, Carlos for me is not only about a tennis coach.   I think for me more important he try to say something or do something, let me more enjoy the tennis life.  
I think I was working with him almost like one year already, so every time he was like say, Relax.   I say, I already relaxed.   He say, No, you should even more.   I was like, Okay.   
But it's very tough, because, you know, my husband also is my ex‑coach.   Sometimes he also has some idea, but if he say something I didn't want listening, you know, all the time.  
So now I think he got a little bit smart.   If he want to do something he talk to Carlos, and then Carlos talk to me.   I was like, Okay, I have to do that because Carlos say I have to do, you know.   
Because if like two coaches say the different thing, it was a little bit of a fight because I didn't know which one I listen.   Now I think they do pretty good job.   They make together first and then say, Li Na, you have to do this.   Li Na, you have to do that.   
Same like here, because Carlos is not here, but my husband always say, Oh, Carlos say you should...   
So I was like, Okay.   (Smiling).   
   
 Q.   Your husband still practices with you?  
NA LI:   Yeah, every day.   
   
 Q.   So when he says things to you in practice, does he say the same thing?   Oh, I just talked to Carlos on the phone, and he said you better play your forehand deeper down the line?   Or you two just don't talk?   You just hit balls?  
NA LI:   No, of course we have to hit the ball because, you know, the best thing is have good communication, of course.  
So even I do something and he say, Hey, look, like we training same thing like we are training Beijing with Carlos.   (Smiling).   
So after he say that, I couldn't say no.   So, I mean, I don't know.   Maybe he's lazy, didn't write e‑mail communication with Carlos.   But every time he check my e‑mail, so for sure he will see what Carlos say.  
   
 Q.   Do you two, you and your husband, when you go to dinner, do you tell each other, No tennis talk at all, so it doesn't become like a job?  
NA LI:   I mean, if out of the tennis court we never talk about tennis, so that's why we can keep a long marriage.   Yeah.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT