ROGERS CUP WOMEN
August 7, 2013
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. LI/A. Pavlyuchenkova
  6‑1, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Just assess your performance, your first match since Wimbledon, how you felt, ball striking, all of that.   
NA LI:   I was feeling pretty good at least during the tournament, so I can move on.   Of course first match always tough, because after Wimbledon I think three or four weeks didn't play any tournaments.  
So still a little bit, how do you say, is like a little bit nervous, like natural, you know.  
So was pretty good.   I was feeling ‑‑today I was fighting a lot on the court.   Yeah, I was used ‑‑I try to use more serve/volley, yeah, but, the serve didn't go in, so...   (Smiling).   
   
 Q.   So after a while, after you got rid of the nerves, did you feel confident enough that you could go for your shots, hit your shots?  
NA LI:   I mean, I was feeling pretty good, because today I tried so many things like not only stay on baseline, like I was working with Carlos, try to as much as I can come to the net.   Maybe today is, yeah, first match, so I hope after I can do even more.  
   
 Q.   So if you can compare your feeling of coming to net, say, from last year at this time, do you feel a lot more confident or is it still a process for you?  
NA LI:   Of course it was a lot ‑‑it's not like I confident, it is because I used to do that when I was training.   Because last year this time I was feeling ‑‑I was feeling like, Please don't go to the net.   Stay on baseline.   Because I was feeling more safe.  
But now I want to change a little bit.   That's why I was training two‑and‑a‑half weeks with Carlos.   I was trying to come to the net.  
Yeah, no, I was feeling if I used to do that even more, I was feeling more comfortable.  
   
 Q.   The players always say that training in practice is different than matches, no?  
NA LI:   Yeah, it is.  
   
 Q.   So talk about the different feelings there.   
NA LI:   I mean, even the practice, if like if you make mistake or something you say, Okay, who cares?   It's for practice.   You have like maybe 10 or 20 more shots.   But for the match, if you lose, it's the one take a point.  
So, yeah, sometimes I was feeling also I can, how you say, I can play very well in the practice, but come to the match where got like nervous or something, of course maybe only can use like 60 to 80%.   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   Unrelated to on the court, there is a table tennis in the players lounge.   Is that something that you do play and do a lot of players on the tour play?   How fun is it?   How enjoyable is it, just as an aside, to get away from on the court?   
NA LI:   You know, I don't have to play.   I just stand there.   I say, I'm from China.   They say, Okay, get up here.   (Laughter).   
No, joke.   I mean, I saw Srebotnik play today.   Then she was like, Hey, I'm Chinese table tennis.   I say, Okay, show me one point.   And opponent just serve and then she lose the ball.   I was like, This is not like Chinese table player.   She like, Get up here.   She was so angry she want to show me how good she is.  
Yeah, I mean, I was try a little bit table tennis in like long time ago, but I think tennis is better so I give up.   (Smiling).   
   
 Q.   Are the players good at the game?   Who is the best?  
NA LI:   Who is the best?   I mean, normally the player always play against the coach, you know.   Yeah, I think, I don't know, maybe coach want to make player happy so always player win all the time.   (Smiling).   
   
 Q.   You make fun of your husband quite a bit.   We were wondering if he ever gets you back or goes to a corner and cries?   What's the reaction he usually has?   Is there retaliation from him?  
NA LI:   I mean, he always try to be like nice one, you know.   I was the worst one.   
But so don't listen what he do, what he say, and don't look what he do.   Because sorry to say that, but sometimes the guys is a little bit faking, you know.   
Yeah, but how you say?   Yeah, he was traveling like ‑‑it's tough time for him, as well.   He always got a lot of pressure, because he was give up the job just traveling with me.   So that's why after ‑‑ I was feeling he pay a lot for me, so that's why I was feeling I wish after I was retire I can pay back to him.   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   On Thursday and Friday here there is a men's invitational tournament as well as the women's match with first‑round losers from the Montreal tournament.   I'm wondering what you think about that.   Is it good to have the men playing here, or does it detract from the women's game?  
NA LI:   When they start, next year?   
   
 Q.   They start tomorrow.   There is a couple men's invitational exhibition matches.   
NA LI:   Oh.  
   
 Q.   Here, tomorrow and Friday.   
NA LI:   That's good.   At least we can see the men play on the court.  
I mean, even I was like off the court, I like to see the men play because men always play a little bit different than women.  
Yeah, if watch the men play, also you can learn a lot if you watch their matches.   I was feeling pretty good, really.  
   
 Q.   You're one of the older players on tour who...   
NA LI:   I'm not old.   (Laughter).   
   
 Q.   You are one of the players on tour who enjoyed success later in their career.   I'm just wondering with the WTA's program where they limited younger players from playing a lot of tournaments to prevent burnout, how that helped you and what do you think of the health of the WTA Tour compared to maybe in past years?  
NA LI:   I mean, how you say it?   Because like you say, I'm oldest one in the tour, so I really have to take care of my body.  
So, you know, if I was 20 years old I will play a lot of tournament to try to get more point.  
But age is tough to recover.   So I was, how you say, I only choose like between 16, around 16 tournament a year.   I try to be like high level for every tournament.  
I don't know.   Maybe because when I was young I'm not in the tour, so I really, how you say, I didn't have any experience for when I was young playing on tour.   So it's very tough to say.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT