WIMBLEDON
June 25, 2013
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. LI/M. Krajicek
  6‑1, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Did you feel that was a good workout today?  
NA LI:   Yes, it is.   I mean, pretty good start for the Wimbledon, you know.   Because I think last two years I didn't doing well in the grass court.   I was shocked a little bit.   So that's why I was asking wild card for one week ago.   
I have to used to play on the grass.   I was feeling today, yeah, pretty happy.  
   
 Q.   You're happy with the way you're feeling on the grass now?  
NA LI:   You know, after you win a match, yes (smiling).   
   
 Q.   Since you've had many injuries yourself, particularly with the knee, did you have some sympathy for Krajicek, who missed all of last year pretty much with the knee injury?  
NA LI:   Her knee injury?   
   
 Q.   Yes.   
NA LI:   I know she has a long time didn't play on the tour, yeah.   So, I mean, I really didn't know what happen for her.   We didn't have a lot of communication between us, you know.   So I really, I mean‑‑ I know she's injury, but I didn't know exactly what happen.   
   
 Q.   Next up you could play Simona Halep or Govortsova.   What do you know about those players?  
NA LI:   I play Halep one time on hard court.   I play Govortsova many times.   I think Halep do well now, and Govortsova, she win two tournament in a row.   Of course, bring her a lot of confident.   
For me, always tough match in the Grand Slam because never have easy match because everyone is fighting a lot, yeah.   
   
 Q.   As a former quarterfinalist, do you set yourself a target when you come to Wimbledon?   
NA LI:   You know, when I was stand up in the grass court, I was feeling, Who make this court?   I couldn't running on the court.   The team, they say, You should like this court.   Why?   I play more aggressive, so I can use the court.   
Sometimes, it's very tough to listen what other people say.   
   
 Q.   After your French Open defeat, you made some comments about the fans.   Do you think that the reaction to that was too much?   
NA LI:   How do you say?   I think maybe they have it wrong translator.   I think when the French Open journalists is for Chinese, they all here.   If I have something wrong, just ask them.   
   
 Q.   Apparently you have 10 million followers on the social network.   Does that inspire you or bother you?  
NA LI:   Really?   
   
 Q.   Did you know this?  
NA LI:   No, I really has no idea (smiling).   Maybe they make wrong information (pointing to the journalists).   
   
 Q.   There were quite a few of them on court today, Chinese.   
NA LI:   Maybe they are student.   Studying England.   Give their holiday to watch tennis, have fun.  
   
 Q.   Did you find it inspiring to have the support?  
NA LI:   No, I love, really.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT