AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 20, 2013
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







E. VESNINA/N. Li
  7‑6, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   She played pretty well against you, didn't she?
NA LI:   I would like to say yes.   Yeah, I mean, today was, how you say, a little bit of surprise, you know, the way she's playing.   But for me I think sometimes I can play well, but sometimes I think I lose concentration on the court.   Yeah. 
So that's why the match was going like up, down a little bit.

Q.   You had a couple of slips.   Did that affect you at all?
NA LI:   No. 

Q.   A bit of a weird week in Eastbourne because Bartoli pulled out so you only really played two matches. 
NA LI:   Uh‑huh.

Q.   Did you get enough preparation this week?
NA LI:   Of course I would like to do more matches, yeah, if the result already today.   Still looking forward for Wimbledon.   Yeah. 

Q.   When you're kind of in and out of the match, can you realize it's happening during the match, or is it something you only realize afterwards?
NA LI:   I mean, it's for, how you say, for myself.   I mean, I didn't think about like point by point.   Sometimes just ‑‑ you know, tennis is very, how do you say, is tough, like if your mind goes somewhere else, maybe just boom, boom, three, four point.
Yeah, I think this is really big problem for myself.

Q.   (Question about being in and out of the match.) 
NA LI:   Yeah, it is. 

Q.   Do you feel in a better place now than you were after the French Open?   You had that trip home and now you're here. 
NA LI:   Same person.   I mean, nothing special.   It is same like, same like what I do in Paris.   If lose the match, just go practice again next day.   What I can do?   This is only thing I can working for. 

Q.   How confident are you going into next week?
NA LI:   I don't think I got confident after the match, you know, after I lose the match.
So, yeah, maybe if you ask me tomorrow maybe more, but today a little bit less.

Q.   What do you like about Wimbledon?
NA LI:   At least we don't have to play three, four hours.   Match faster in the service.   And also, yeah, we don't have to play long set.   And also, match time much shorter.

Q.   Less running?
NA LI:   Less running, but you have to use your legs a lot on the court. 

Q.   Were you able to watch Wimbledon when you were growing up, playing tennis as a junior?   Did they have Wimbledon on in China?
NA LI:   Well, see, how you say, I think I was, I don't know, maybe around like 13, 14 I see the television, they show the tennis match.
But before, not really 100%, you know. 

Q.   Did you find it to be a weird idea to play tennis on grass when you saw it?
NA LI:   I mean, when I saw it on TV I thought, wow, nice sport.   But when I was play on grass, I thought how impossible can play on this court.
But it is, so I have to get used to do that. 

Q.   Are you going to get back to London in time for the player party tonight?
NA LI:   I don't think I have time.   Yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT