AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 19, 2013
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. LI/M. Bartoli
  [Walkover]

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You probably would prefer to get more match practice than have a walkover?
NA LI:   Look, I was working so hard today. (Smiling.) 
I mean, I would like to say so sorry for her, because I think I know when like ten minutes before the start of the match, I saw her coach, share the hand to my coach.   I was like, What's going on?   I still was warming up.   Suddenly she say she was feeling sick.
Yeah, no, this is not the best way to win a match.   So I was feeling so sorry for her.

Q.   You went out and practiced?
NA LI:   Yeah, yeah.

Q.   That's not as good as a match, is it?
NA LI:   Of course.   Practice was a little bit relaxed, you know.   But I was hitting with my husband, so pretty more fun on the court.

Q.   How can this tournament help your game leading up to Wimbledon?
NA LI:   I mean, I'm still in this tournament, so I have to focus on this tournament.   Wimbledon is next week.   Yeah.

Q.   It in terms of being at Wimbledon, what would be a good tournament for you in terms of how far you get?
NA LI:   You mean in Wimbledon? 

Q.   Yeah. 
NA LI:   Like what I say, I'm still in this tournament.   I couldn't think how is next week or how is the week after.   So if I'm still in Eastbourne, I have to focus on Eastbourne tournament.   If I lose tomorrow, okay, is another sort of story.   I have to think about what I should do in the next week.

Q.   Can you see yourself winning the tournament?
NA LI:   I mean, of course.   Every player want to win the tournament.   No one who come to the tournament say, I want to lose first round.   I don't think no one would think about that.
So for every player, they still have chance.

Q.   How have you been spending your time in Eastbourne apart from practicing and winning matches?
NA LI:   Well, yeah, take relax in the afternoon, go massage, go back to the room, talk to the friend on the Internet. 
Yeah.   On here, you know, because nothing to do, because still in tournament so I have to focus on tournament.
And then tried good dinner.   Yeah.   Chinese.

Q.   You always go to the same place?
NA LI:   I was try pretty lot different Chinese food, but I prefer one of them.   Yeah, okay.   I will go two times in a row already.

Q.   You don't try fish and chips?
NA LI:   I try to lose the weight.   Yeah.   So maybe I will try one day even without the coach, you know.   He's the coach.   He say that. 

Q.   When he's not watching?
NA LI:   Yeah, yeah, yeah.

Q.   How do you find Eastbourne as a place to play tennis?   Obviously it's different being away from somewhere like London.   It's quite quiet here. 
NA LI:   I was feeling pretty good.   Every city is different.   You couldn't prepare everything.   If you have been here, you have to focus on here.   If you are in London, you have to focus on London.   Yeah, because you couldn't change the court.   You couldn't change the condition.   So you have to use to do that.

Q.   Have you had much time to go around town and go along the pier or on the seafront?
NA LI:   Not really, because only chance go out is for dinner.   Always go downtown.   You have good Chinese.   Yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT