MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 3, 2013
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How do you rate your preparation so far?   You played in Stuttgart and played well until the finals.   Have you had the opportunity to train already here, and how did you see the conditions of the court in comparison to Stuttgart?
NA LI:   I mean, every tournament is different.   You can't prepare Stuttgart or even Miami.   I was Madrid yesterday so I was practice twice.
I was feeling the court much different from last year, so I have to use the time to prepare for the first match.   It's very tough because different condition, different court.   So you have to prepare everything and just ready for the tournament. 

Q.   You have had the opportunity to win Roland Garros.   In your experience, which court in the clay court season is much similar to Roland Garros?
NA LI:   I mean, it's a very tough, how you say, tough to answer.   If you have same court but different condition, also is different feeling.   Also, every city is different. 
So for all of the world, every tournament is special.   You couldn't compare for another one. 

Q.   You're having a very good season.   You played final in Australian Open, you know, and Stuttgart.   How do you feel ahead of this tournament?
NA LI:   Actually I was feeling pretty good from beginning of the year until now.   I was training so hard with Carlos. 
Yeah, he didn't come with me in Stuttgart, so when I was here, so many people just ask me, Are you still working with Carlos?   I said, Of course. 
So, yeah, he will be come here.   I mean, I was, how you say, so happy he can come to my team to coach me.   I think for me, he's not only tennis coach.   I think after I was working with him I feel much stronger in my mind and also much stronger on the court.

Q.   You played very well here in Madrid in the past tournaments.   What are your memories of the tournaments here in Madrid?
NA LI:   Last two years was a little bit slippery. But, yeah, this year is much more different.   I was twice already for the practice. 
I think here was more, how you say, similar for Roland Garros, the court.   Yeah, so I was feeling this year much, much, how do you say, it's less slippery so I can stand even more. 

Q.   How do you feel about that, the pressure? 
NA LI:   I mean, something I couldn't change, so I have to used to.   I was happy to have so many tournament in Asia.   Of course was in China after US Open.   I think they have a lot tournament in China.
First they can improve tennis in China, so let more people know how tennis is going and they come face to face for the top star or superstar.   They can come to the court to watch the game.
So I thought it was pretty good for us, really. 

Q.   Also, about Carlos, he's known for being very tactical and detailed.   Is he that way with you?   Does he make you think a lot about tactics and do you listen?
NA LI:   Of course I will listen.   If he's my coach, I have to listen because I was trust him a lot.   Even he's not in Stuttgart, but we have contact by email, text message. 
So he know exactly what I do on the court.   After Stuttgart we have a lot email contacts to prepare what we should do here and also after season. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT