SONY OPEN TENNIS
March 26, 2013
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. WILLIAMS/N. Li
  6‑3, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   How do you feel?   Watching the Australian Open it was very scary watching your ankle buckle.   How does your ankle feel now?  
NA LI:   It's pretty good, really.   Yeah, I mean, I was taped so it's just in case.   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   Happy to have three wins?   Compared to where you were?  
NA LI:   I mean, it's very tough match today, but nothing to say.   Yeah, I have chance but I didn't hold, so this is tennis, you know.   Also, she's very, how you say, best player in the world.  
So if you couldn't hold the chance, she never give you chance again.  
Yeah.   I mean, I still have to see the positive way.   I played well today.   Yeah.   So should be continue to working with team and try to be ready for clay court season.  
   
 Q.   You always go for your shots.   
NA LI:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   How does Serena make you have to go for them even more?  
NA LI:   I mean, I have to hit the ball.   This is my way to play the tennis, you know.   So I was feeling if I hit didn't hit the ball, I mean, she just come, how you say, hit the winner.   So no chance for me.  
So I have to do something on the court, you know.   Yeah.     
   
 Q.   But does she take away from your time because of her groundstrokes or pace or serve particularly?   Does she force you more?  
NA LI:   Yeah, I think today she has pretty good serve when‑‑ like, I have set point, serve, and even in the tiebreak she have pretty good serve, so I was feeling returns a little bit tough, you know.   
So I really couldn't, how do you say, couldn't hit the ball to have a return to my way.   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   What was the biggest difference in the second set?   You know, you were up 5‑2.   
NA LI:   Yes.   I'm still lost the match.   I mean, 5‑2 is, how you say, it's not over yet.  
So, yeah.   Still I think for both players to have the chance, so...  
I think 2‑All or 5‑2 is the same.   Still have to continue to play the ball.   
   
 Q.   How excited are you about switching to clay, and especially getting back to Paris?  
NA LI:   I'm not so exciting because I just lose today.   (Laughter.)  
So, you know, after left here I have to think about the clay court season.   Yeah.   Still, how do you say, looking forward, because at least, I mean, I'm healthy and I still can hit ball on the court.  
So, yeah, looking forward clay court season.  
   
 Q.   How did winning the French Open change your life and your career, would you say?  
NA LI:   I think this question was answered hundred times already.   It's change a lot, really.   Even now I was play tournament for all over the world I have the fans and they supporting me.   
Yeah, very enjoy the life.  
   
 Q.   Do you think Serena is the better player coming from behind, sort of her hatred of losing?  
NA LI:   Tennis is really tough to say.   Everyone has the chance.   So you never know what happen on the court like today.  
Before both player come walking out on the court, you never know who can win the match.   You have to see who is better on the court.  
Yeah, I would like to say she has pretty big serve on the women's tour, yeah.   And she's strong and tough on the court.  
   
 Q.   Do you think that the switch to clay will be easier on your ankle coming back from that injury?   I know you're feeling pretty decent with it.   
NA LI:   Okay, I will say again:   No injury anymore.   Now I was feeling 100% in my ankle.   Please don't ask about the injury.   I'm happy now.   (Smiling.)  
   
 Q.   Will it be easier on your joints in general?  
NA LI:   I'm not try clay yet, so I'm not sure how is ‑‑I don't know yet.   So I have to try first to see.   Depends if easier or not.   
   
 Q.   What was your experience like in Paris last year?   That was the first time you'd come to a Grand Slam tournament as the defending champion.   I'm sure you were answering a lot of the same questions over and over.   What was the experience like overall?   Do you think it will be easier this year maybe with another year removed?   
NA LI:   You know, last year I was in French Open I didn't have any experience like for defending champion.   So, you know, everyone was focused ‑‑I was feeling like, how you say, a little bit too much.   If you do something always the camera was next to you.  
So I think this year should be better, yeah, because I'm not defending champion.   So, yeah, now so, how you say, have the team or I try to speak out what I feeling.  
So not like before.   I always hold only for myself.   Yeah.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT