AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 25, 2013
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Did you see the semifinal involving Azarenka?   When she took the medical timeout, did you see that?  
    NA LI:   I'm sorry, I didn't see that, but I heard this morning.  
   
 Q.   What are your thoughts on that?   Do you think that was fair?  
    NA LI:   I'm not her, so I didn't know the truth.   I mean, also I wasn't on the court to see, so I couldn't say anything.   
   
 Q.   So you have no thoughts on that issue at all?  
    NA LI:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   Do you think a timeout like that is fair?  
    NA LI:   I mean, she call doctor on the court?   Or if doctor say she need out of the court, she should follow the doctor, right?   
   
 Q.   Have you ever called a timeout like that?  
    NA LI:   If I'm injured, yes.   If no, not.   
   
 Q.   Do you think there are appropriate times to use injury timeouts?   Like you shouldn't be doing it at that stage of a match, where there might be match points?   
    NA LI:   You know, everyone is different.   Because for me, I would never use that.   But I don't know how is another athlete or another player because everyone is different.   
    I couldn't say, Oh, is wrong or is right.   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   How much more ready are you for this final tomorrow than you were two years ago?  
    NA LI:   How much what?   
   
 Q.   More ready, prepared?   You've won a Grand Slam; you're a more mature player.   
    NA LI:   Last time is ‑ how you say ‑ more exciting, nervous, because first time to be in final.   But I think this time more calmed down, more cool little bit.   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel as though you're a much more experienced player now?  
    NA LI:   Hopefully, yeah.   
    But, you know, for the final, you never know what happen on the court.   So just come to the court to try.   
   
 Q.   Say you do come out and start to not play well.   Have there been things you've worked on with Carlos that you'll take a step back and try to reevaluate and go to a different game plan if you don't come out and play well from the start?  
    NA LI:   Because until now I was play well, so is nothing happen.   So I just want ‑ how you say ‑ keep playing well.   
    If it's not working, we should find a result why I couldn't play well, to have good training, and to start next tournament again.   
   
 Q.   What do you think are the main differences between Azarenka and Sharapova?   
    NA LI:   You mean in the games?   
   
 Q.   Yes.   
    NA LI:   I was a little bit worried (laughter).   
    I think Maria was even more powerful than Azarenka.   Yeah, Maria is more tall.   She have very good catching for the side ball.   I mean, she's never give up.   You know, so strong in the mind.   
    Azarenka, as well.   Little bit ‑ how you say ‑ less power, but she like to put the ball corner to corner.   So make opponent to running for whole court.   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   You've lost to Victoria Azarenka the last four times.   Have you thought about what you need to do differently to get up tomorrow night?  
    NA LI:   Yeah, at least this year we didn't have meet, right?   So is new start.   
    So looking forward for the final.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel, having beaten Azarenka in Grand Slam matches ‑ she's never beaten you in a Grand Slam ‑ is that an advantage for you?  
    NA LI:   I wish you can continue that result.   (Laughter.)   
    But, you know, last year she was doing very well for all the year, so is not easy for the athlete.   So for her is tough match.   I mean, she have tough matches here, as well.   She was defending champion.   
    For me, really ‑ how you say ‑ really have to enjoy for the moment.   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   What do you remember about your last final here in Melbourne, the way you handled that situation?   What are you going to do differently this time?  
    NA LI:   How do you say, last time for my team also is first time to be the final, so nobody tell me what I should do on the court.   
    This time is different story.   Carlos, before he was coaching for Justine, so he has a lot of experience for the final.   Yeah.   
    So I think should be okay this time (smiling).   
   
 Q.   Do you think you have a lot of fans watching in China this time?  
    NA LI:   Maybe.   I'm not sure because tomorrow, Saturday, tea time.   Yeah, maybe.   
   
 Q.   Obviously tennis is getting very popular in your country because of you.   Your hometown is going to have a big tournament in 2014.   How big is that for you?  
    NA LI:   How big is for me?   
   
 Q.   Yes.   
    NA LI:   I'm always same way.   
   
 Q.   You are going to play in front of your hometown, maybe your family.   
    NA LI:   Of course I was happy to have a tournament in my hometown.   You know, traveling all over the world, never have a chance to play in my hometown.   Very ‑ how you say ‑ looking forward and excited.   
   
 Q.   Do you think if you do it here tomorrow night there will be a new wave of popularity within China?   Is that something that you're prepared for, sort of what you experienced after the French a couple years ago?  
    NA LI:   You know, this is far.   I really didn't think about that.   
    Let me think.   Maybe after if I win the title, disappear for a couple days, maybe try to stay the family.   No one can find me because I really need the time with friend, also family, you know.  
    Because Chinese new year was come soon but I couldn't stay in China, so I have to use the short time with family.   
   
 Q.   Do you remember the first time you saw yourself on a billboard or in the airport?   Can you talk about what that experience was like for you?  
    NA LI:   I say, Okay, I know this girl.   No, because, I mean, first time I was a little bit afraid to watch.   I was feeling like, Oh, it's real.   Because sometimes you think it's different when you watch.   
    First time was like, Ah, like this.   And then I look, Okay, okay, it's you, so don't worry about.   
    After the team or the friend say, I think I know this one.   I was like, yeah, yeah, yeah, me, too.   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   Do you remember when that was, the timing of that?  
    NA LI:   I think the huge big one was in French Open, after.   Yeah, because next day I was back to Germany, so I saw in the airport.   I don't know if it BBC or CNN or something news like ‑ how you say ‑ 24 hours.   I mean, Why?   I just win title.   I just go and everyone saw.   
    Also funny thing is I was bought economy ticket because just so short.   
    They come and say, We know you just win tournament, so move to business.   I was, Oh, is not bad.   
   
 Q.   What about in China?   Do you remember the first time you saw yourself in China?  
    NA LI:   In China?   Wow, I think should be long time ago, yeah.   It's not huge big like right now.   I think first one is for Nike, yeah.   
    Feeling good because I was young.   I never saw myself in the post or somewhere.   I say, Okay, looks good.   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   Can you tell us what you've been doing since the Sharapova match yesterday?   Did you go out for hot pot last night?   
    NA LI:   I go pop, you know.   No.   (Laughter).   
    Just after press conference, I go back for massage and be in Chinatown for dinner.   
    After, back to room, talk to friend for Internet, and sleep.   This morning was a little bit gym, yeah.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT