AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 18, 2013
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. LI/S. Cirstea
  6‑4, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Good performance out there today.   How did it feel for you?  
NA LI:   I mean, before the match I was a little bit nervous because I was play her like many, many times.   I know she was like shoot the ball like unbelievable, you know.   I never know if next ball is in or out.   I have to ready for every second.  
But was pretty good today.   I was feeling more, how you say, even more control again on the court.   Pretty, how you say, much easier what I think.   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   Can you tell us a little, because you have changed coaches, a little more insight in what kind of things you have gained?   
NA LI:   Also when we start working like last August, every press conference I have to say something about him, you know.   Even my physio is like, What?   Only what about him?   What about me?   I was like, yeah, you do good job, as well.   Yeah, okay.   
Carlos, very good coach.   Yeah, I was like working with him, after, two days later, he just change technique of the serve, of the forehand.  
So, I mean, today can see in the match.   I mean, I was play even a little bit different before, like more heavier, the ball more topspin, not like flat.   Because Cirstea, she like the flat ball, so I tried to change a little bit today for this match.  
And Carlos was prepare, how you say, what I should do on the court, because sometimes I think I was thinking too much.   So I couldn't concentration all the time, you know.   
So, yeah, he was have some deal for what I should do, what I should prepare for on the court.   
Yeah.   
   
 Q.   Between yourself and Carlos, have you got any aims for 2013, where you'd like to be?   Currently sitting 6.   Is there an aim that you've got for the year?  
NA LI:   Well, I really want, if I have chance.   Of course I will try harder as I can.   I really want to be top 3.   This is the goal for whole team, you know.   
I know it's tough, but if you didn't have a goal maybe you just feel like, Oh, No. 6 also is pretty good.   I didn't even have to working.  
But I still try to fight on the court to push me.   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   You look at the top five names above you, you're confident you can match up with any one of those five at any time?  
NA LI:   I wish I can.   I would like to say all of the girls is very tough.   They training so hard.   I always like to say even in the Grand Slam, everyone, they didn't like give you the match or give you the tournament or something.   They always try as hard as they can.   They always fighting a lot on the court.   
You know, these top five players, they have very good result for all of the year for last year, so I wish I can be one of them.  
   
 Q.   Many of the players have a particular rival that they see as their main rival.   Who do you see as the biggest rivalry you have in tennis?  
NA LI:   You know, I always try to play my game on the court, so, yeah.   But sometimes I was fighting against myself.   I always waste a lot of energy on the court.  
Right now first step I have to follow what I do.   I don't have to against myself.   So this is big step for me.   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   Has your coach helped you stop fighting against yourself?   Is that something that Carlos has done?  
NA LI:   Yeah, he try.   He try a lot.   He was try very hard.   I think I doing good job.   I mean, at least not like before.   I have like maybe eight of the ten of the time I have the time for fighting against myself.   
Now I try to relax on the court or off the court.  
   
 Q.   You looked a bit frustrated at Jiang Shan today.   You said, Do this.   
NA LI:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   Yeah?   Why?   
NA LI:   Just want to do it.   
   
 Q.   In this tournament there are four Chinese females in the main draw and one qualifying male.   Similar proportions in the juniors.   In China, is tennis more attractive to the females than the males, do you think?  
NA LI:   They are here.   You can ask all of them.   Because for me, I mean, I was traveling all of the world to play some tournament.   I really can get some information, I don't know, maybe from Internet or from newspaper.   But all the information from them, you know, so you can ask them.   (Smiling.)  
   
 Q.   You have Julia Goerges next.   You have never played her.   Will you think to Zheng Jie to find out?  
NA LI:   Yeah, just finished the match and Zheng Jie was in the locker room.   We talk a little bit, but not really.   I know how sad.   I mean, she just lose the match and she have to focus on the doubles.  
I never play Julia Goerges before, but right now I don't need to even think about next match because I just finish match today.   I just enjoy today, and next match will come Sunday, so I ready for Sunday.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT