AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 13, 2013
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Is it good to be back at the Australian Open?   You've had a fair amount of success here in the last couple years. 
NA LI:   Yeah, I mean, always looking forward Australia.   Is very tough because first Grand Slam for the year and also just finish your winter training.   So you can see so many players working so hard. 
Yeah, I mean, I looking forward.

Q.   Does this feel like your (indiscernible) Grand Slam? 
NA LI:   I really have to say this is my favorite Grand Slam, yeah.   I mean, I just feeling every year come back, you can see all the friend.   Is the same like if you come to the practice desk, you can see the same people every year.   If you come to the locker room, Oh, I saw friend again. 
Just feeling time is running so fast because you can only see them every year one time, yeah. 

Q.   Are you glad that Kim Clijsters has retired and you don't have to play her again? 
NA LI:   Of course, I mean, I check the Internet. 

Q.   Are you happy that you don't have to play her again here?
NA LI:   Why I should happy?   I really looking forward to play her again. 
How you say?   I was play her last year in the fourth round.   I never have chance to come back, so I'm not happy. 

Q.   Did you want revenge against her at the Australian Open?
NA LI:   Yeah, it is.   I mean, every time I play against her, always tough match.   It's really good challenge for self. 

Q.   Wu Di will play here this week.   What do you think of his game and his chances? 
NA LI:   I mean, first Grand Slam for him.   Of course, he will got little bit nervous probably.   But I would like to say is good experience for him. 
I think he will play Tuesday.   I mean, if I have time, I'll watch him play on the court.   Wish good luck for him. 

Q.   You've come so close in the past.   How do you think you'll go this year?   Do you feel more confident? 
NA LI:   Yeah, I mean, I just finish so I have two days totally off.   Now I was feeling fresh again.   The team was working so hard.   Yeah, like two days ago I was feeling really, really tired about my body. 
The physio have very good massage.   The massage table he was already kidding me.   But now I'm felling much better, so I looking forward for this year for Australia. 

Q.   Is there anything specific injury‑wise?
NA LI:   No, not injury, because I play nine matches in ten days.   Only one day traveling.   Is very tough ‑ how you say ‑ for the physio.   He's doing very good job. 

Q.   Feeling better now?
NA LI:   Yeah, now is feeling fresh, so I think I'm ready for tomorrow.

Q.   Is there any advice Carlos was giving you?   He was writing a lot of notes in Sydney?
NA LI:   I mean, next time I really have to take him with me for press conference (laughter). 
How you say?   I was feeling more relaxed working with him.   He never give the pressure for me.   I mean, for him, he say, You never know what happen on the tennis court so just try to win the first round.   If you couldn't win first round, is nothing happen after. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT