APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 9, 2013
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. LI/M. Keys
  4‑6, 7‑6, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You had a difficult match.   Your serve in the first set, you were having some problems with?
NA LI:   No, no problem.

Q.   Not the serve?
NA LI:   No.   I mean, it's very tough like, but I was shake a little bit beginning of the match because I never play against her.
I got the information she has a big serve, but I think not like today, like 180, 190.   So I was feeling, Okay, well then she do.
I was happy I can stay same level from the beginning of the match to the end.   So it was pretty good challenge.   She is young.   She has huge, big serve.   It's very, how do you say, it's very good I could have the match before Australian Open to see how strong I am on the court. 

Q.   You played well on a lot of the big points.   Did you find with her groundstrokes she also hits her forehand very hard? 
NA LI:   How do you say, I was a little bit nervous beginning of the match.   If you play the young player, you never know what happen, what they are doing on the court.
So I don't know.   Maybe I was really find the rhythm was in the tiebreak.   I think not like before.   Like all the time just mistake.   Give her a lot chance to hit the winner.

Q.   She's only 17, which for the tour now‑ I'm not going to talk about your age.   I see the look.   Not too many 17 year olds can play at that level.   What do you think her future is?
NA LI:   I mean, I would like to say she's pretty, pretty good.   I mean, if she play level like this every match, she should be soon top 20, top 15, top 10.   Yeah. 

Q.   You defended so well today.   Is that the most pleasing thing that you get out of today's win?
NA LI:   I mean, I'm still in the tournament, right?   So, yeah, I mean, today is very, very good challenge for myself, because after Carlos was come to the coach, it's not only for technique, also for the mind. 
I have to be stronger.   I have to be like champion on the court.   So today I was really try to hard working like this moment. 

Q.   You had some strapping on your knee today. 
NA LI:   No.   No, I'm good. 

Q.   You're okay?
NA LI:   Yeah.

Q.   But there was tape on your knee. 
NA LI:   No, just in case.   Looked like cool, so...   (Smiling.)

Q.   Carlos seemed very happy when you were moving forward all the time and attacking.   Is that what he was trying to get you to do? 
NA LI:   Yeah, I mean, I think he was happy, but he feeling I still can doing even more.   You know, it's very tough if you got new thing.   You need time to recover.   You need time to like maybe before you need time to thinking, but after maybe you can do automatic. 
So now I'm still try to working away like Carlos wish.

Q.   Obviously short back up now and then very tough test tomorrow. 
NA LI:   Yeah.   I mean, just got a good rest and tomorrow match I have to think about tomorrow.   Today is done.   No more tennis.

Q.   Was yesterday's match harder because of the heat, or was today harder because of the opponent for you?
NA LI:   If I can choice, I'm not sure these two days.   It's very tough to have hot condition to play the match or like today in tough match.
But it's very good, good challenge.   At least I used to both, so...

Q.   You had very good success against Radwanska last year on hardcourts.   Why do you think that is?
NA LI:   I wish I can continue to keep going, but, you know, she's long time in top 10.   Also it's not easy play against her.   She's very smart player.
So I have to, how do you say, like looking even more forward, come to the net. 

Q.   You obviously had success here the last couple of years.   Is this a really important event for you to start off your season? 
NA LI:   I mean, last couple years it's over, so I have to looking forward what I should do now.   Yeah
Yeah, I was happy until now.   I'm still winner.   I'm still in the tournament.   I still can challenge for myself for tomorrow match.

Q.   Why do you think you have success at this tournament?   You're at least in the semifinal for the last three years here. 
NA LI:   I don't know.   Maybe lucky area or very good center court.   (Smiling.)
Yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT