TEB BNP PARIBAS WTA CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 26, 2012
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







V. AZARENKA/N. Li
  7‑6, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You got off to a pretty good start in this match and then it seemed to turn near the end of the first set for a while.   Something changed in your game you think, or what happened?
NA LI:   I mean, on the court like short time you have to thinking, so most time you didn't have the time to thinking what have to do.
So, you know, I know I think it's same like Serena match.   Was pretty good start, and then, I don't know, I just always do the same thing.   (Smiling.)
So, yeah, I think I still have positive to take away, but at least on this tournament I play No. 1, 3, and 5 in the world, so pretty good challenge for the self. 
End of the season at least I was healthy.   I didn't have any injury.   So really looking forward for the next yeah, next season. 

Q.   With Carlos, have you guys already talked and confirmed that he'll continue to work with you next year, or will you talk about that in the off‑season?
NA LI:   Not right now.   Of course after lose the match I was a little bit sad.   So I was standing gym and he was coming to say it's okay and pretty close against No. 1 in the world.   And not just enjoy life, enjoy vacation.   We talk when you come back.
I was like, okay.   It's very tough, how do you say, to talk about the program, what we should do in next step when just finish the match.   So I think we will talk tomorrow or when I'm really cool down. 

Q.   So you haven't confirmed that you'll still work with him next year, or you will?
NA LI:   I really wish, but I have to waiting what him answer.   (Smiling.)
Because I think I want to see ‑‑ after I was working with him I was change a lot.   I mean, still really has good thing, so, yeah. 

Q.   After her last match last night, Angelique Kerber and her coach and team all jumped in the pool at the hotel in the middle of the night and it was freezing cold.   Are you going to do anything to celebrate your season being over?
NA LI:   I think they're are strong team, so I will keep it. 
You know, my husband couldn't swimming, so I couldn't help for him if he was jumping in the swimming pool.   So I will not save him life, you know, so...
Yeah. 

Q.   Do you know what your vacation plans are, where you're going? 
NA LI:   Yeah, of course.   I mean, I was plan already four month ago.

Q.   Are you going to tell us?
NA LI:   No, I will keep the secret.   Yeah, really looking forward for the vacation, you know.   We have to start first week of the January until now, so really long season for me. 
I really have to enjoy for this.   I will take two weeks.   So two weeks nothing about fitness, nothing about tennis, just enjoy life, do whatever I want to do. 

Q.   And do you know if you're planning to do your training for the pre‑season in Beijing or back in Europe?   You don't want to talk about it yet? 
NA LI:   I mean, right now I only can see the vacation, you know.   (Smiling.)
Yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT