TEB BNP PARIBAS WTA CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 24, 2012
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. WILLIAMS/N. Li
  7‑6, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   It was quite a strange match to watch with so many service breaks and everything.   How did it feel out there playing it?  
NA LI:   I don't feeling it's strange match.   I was feeling it's good match.   (Smiling.)  
I mean, I know I have very good beginning of the match.   Afterwards, break up and I think too much, you know, because I saw I was 4‑1 up and maybe I have a chance.   But I have to say she has very good serve in the second set.   Yeah.   
But what I can do?   Already try the best on the court today.   Maybe I have some more chance, but I waste them.   I wish I can doing better tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   You had similar scorelines in the past with her, very tight sets.   How do you explain it?   What do you like to make a difference, because the level is similar but you're not far from her?   
NA LI:   The match is always tough.   And alsoit's very, how do you say, very tough to play the first match against Serena.   We didn't have match before for warmup.   If you come to the court with her you have to start right away and keep high level as well.  
But this is the Championships.   It's different tournament.   It's end of the year, the last tournament, so, yeah.   I mean, how do you say, it's really tough.  
I lose already today so I really don't want to thinking too much about today's match because it's over.   I have to looking forward.   
   
 Q.   The last time you played her was two years ago.   Did you notice some differences in her game from the last time?  
NA LI:   Who?   
   
 Q.   Did you notice some differences in her game since the last time you played her?  
NA LI:   I think last time I played her is two years ago.   
   
 Q.   Yeah.   So you don't remember?  
NA LI:   I think you were wrong.   You say three years ago but I say two years ago.   So I think I have good remember, right?   
   
 Q.   I think it was two years ago.   
NA LI:   I think I heard you say three years.   Two years, I mean, she's improve a lot; I was improve a lot as well.  
Yeah, I think today the match showed high level, so nothing to say.   
   
 Q.   In which way do you think you are changing, because you did something different tonight, in my opinion?   Maybe about the new coach?   Maybe you are trying to do something different?  
NA LI:   So you couldn't see the different?   
   
 Q.   I say I see the difference.   
NA LI:   Yeah, if you see the difference, that's me; I change.  
   
 Q.   So I ask you in which way do you think you were changing your game?  
NA LI:   So which way you see?   
   
 Q.   I see more Henin style, very fast movement from one side to another side.   
NA LI:   I always moving fast.   
   
 Q.   No movement with legs, but with arms and the ball is moving faster, in my opinion.   You just go on the other side.   What do you think?   I am wrong?  
NA LI:   I think you are right.   Yeah, I was feeling the same, so, yeah.   
   
 Q.   It seemed like for most of the beginning of the year sometimes when people asked you questions about the future you were like, I don't know how many more years I'm going to play and sounding a little bit down on yourself.   Seems like you have a little bit more energy maybe now and you're talking about if you're healthy, two, three more years.   Has your mentality changed about your future?   
NA LI:   You know, this question is always tough to answer because we never know what happened if next day after wake up.   I mean, for whole year your body was traveling a lot, already tired, and also we have to stay high level for whole tournament.  
So, well, I mean, like this year I saw not many, but, yeah, couple player was retire same age like me.   So after even I was play Beijing, they always ask me when you have to‑‑ when you think about you are retire?   
I was like, Hey, guys, I'm not old.   I still can play, so I was feeling I'm healthy and I still can running on the court, like the guy says, a little bit faster than before.   
Also I still in the top 10, so also I think more important is I like the tennis life right now.  
I mean, I very enjoy it so I really didn't want to stop right now.  
   
 Q.   When you returned back to Beijing and played a couple weeks ago...  
NA LI:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   How have you seen a difference in the fans in their knowledge and experience with tennis compared to like the Olympics back in 2008?   Seems like they are more knowledgeable now, no?   
NA LI:   You know, tennis in China was grow up a lot.   Four years can change so many things.   Also right now I think China player, they doing very good job.   They improve tennis a lot in China.  
Also, WTA, they make office in China in Beijing, so they improved not for professional, maybe for another fans to see how is the tennis to repeat about tennis as well.  
So of course you can see the Beijing tournament before was the small one, but now it's big tournament for all the Asia.   
So it's pretty good.   I wish‑ no, not wish‑ of course the fans was getting better and better.   
Yeah.   
   
 Q.   What's the best way to play against Serena?   Is it to try and make the first strike in the rally and keep her under pressure and deny her time?   If so, do you feel you were hitting the ball well?  
NA LI:   I mean,   you know, if plays against Serena,   you have to focus every second.   I mean, if you lose concentration one second she'll killing you straightaway.  
Really you have to, how do you say, focus on the court.   I think like today beginning of the match I was play very good, and then suddenly I was slow down a little bit and she can turn the match straightaway.   
   
 Q.   Were you encouraged when she smashed her racquet?   
NA LI:   Did she?   No, I don't know because I heard warning for Serena.   I was like, What happened?   
   
 Q.   At 3‑1 when she did the two double faults.   
NA LI:   Oh, I think might have been next year they should got a little bit stronger racquets.   (Laughing.)   
No, joke.   I mean, yeah, I would do the same even I was angry as well.   Maybe I'm not doing on the court.   Maybe in the locker room so nobody can see that.  
   
 Q.   How many racquets have you smashed in the locker room?  
NA LI:   Until now?   No, zero.   No, I promise.   Yeah.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT