TEB BNP PARIBAS WTA CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 22, 2012
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Li Na.   
   
 Q.   Just wondering what helped you turn around your season once you got to the hard courts?   What did you find that you had lost?   
NA LI:   I was like so many people say after he's come to the my team I was change unbelievable.   I really have to say he's doing good job.   Also my team as well, so not only Carlos.   The physio come with me already like two, three years, and after he was come to my team I never got injury.  
So I think if I can staying healthy in the court I can play maybe another two, three years for sure.   But I was happy I can have Carlos in my team, because I think he was positive people and give a lot of positive thing for all the team.  
   
 Q.   So mostly in your mind about being positive, not about your game so much?   
NA LI:   I was feeling I play okay.   (Laughter.)   
Yeah, but after he's coming, he make me training a little bit for strong in the mind, not only for tennis.   
Yeah.   
   
 Q.   What would you like to say about the tournament?   Last year it was perfect.   All the players told lots of great things about it.   What are you expecting for this one?   
NA LI:   I was so exciting for this week, because, you know, it's last tournament for whole the year.   After is vacation, so of course look forward for this tournament.   
Yeah, it's more important for the match, but for me, I really look forward for the vacation as well.   (Smiling.)  
   
 Q.   What would you say is your stand‑out memory of 2012?   What strengths do you think you are bringing into the event this week?   
NA LI:   I mean, I was, how you say, this year I was not like last year.     I was playing highest level in Grand Slam, and this year I was playing the same level from beginning of the year to the end.  
I was last into the Championships, so before Beijing I was like whole team wish I can play in the Championships.   But in the finals, I mean, I got so really, how do you say, a power for myself, power for the team, and last second we get the dream.  
This tournament is tough ever.   Only top eight player can play, so every match of course is amazing challenge for the self.   But I think I'm ready.   
   
 Q.   Do you ever think about what your life would be like if you had not come back to tennis after you went to university?   
NA LI:   Maybe I would be housewife.   (Laughter.)   But, you know, I was come back to the tennis court, so...  
But I still can keep my dream after I'm retire.   I will take care of my husband and take care of my children as well.  
   
 Q.   Doesn't seem like you have the personality of a housewife.   Seems like you like to work.   How long do you think you'll last as a housewife?  
NA LI:   (Smiling.)   Okay, now, listen, I was the only tennis athlete so I only focus tennis court, but I think I can doing well in the housewife as well.   Tennis is very tough sport.   I mean, I can doing well in the tennis court, so I believe I can doing well in housewife as well.   
But it's new challenge, so, yeah, we will see.   
   
 Q.   In the last two years or so you've become a wealthy person.   Does that make it easier to play better or is it a distraction or does it have no effect on your tennis at all?   
NA LI:   You know, I would like to say like after my birthday in this year, I mean, most like every second of tournament I come to press conference and they always ask, When you ready for retire?   
Because I'm not sure.   For me, I was feeling the age just nothing around.   Right now I was feeling I was healthy.   I still can running on the court.   I still can play good tennis.   Also my team still support me.   
I mean, really I never think about when I should retire, because right now I really enjoy my tennis life.  
I will enjoy my every second of every day.   
   
 Q.   How does it feel to represent your country in this top level?  
NA LI:   You should come to China and you can see it clear.   Until now, of course I think Chinese people support me as well.   Why not?   
   
 Q.   You're in a very tough group here.   You have Azarenka and Serena in your group, and Kerber who you had a tough match with in the Cincinnati final.   Talk about playing each of them and the challenges that this week presents for you.   
NA LI:   When you play Championships never has easy match.   Doesn't matter which group you are, because only top eight player can play.  
Draw already, so I couldn't change anything.   Only one thing is I will come to the court and try as best as I can.   
Yeah.   
   
 Q.   (Question in Turkish)   Do you think there is a necessary importance given to tennis in this country?   
NA LI:   I mean, of course.   This is the second year of the Championships in Istanbul.   Last year so many people come to watch the best tennis in the world.  
Of course I think it was popular tennis in Istanbul or Turkey as well.   
   
 Q.   When you talk about Carlos helping you strengthen the mind, what does that look like?   Obviously in tennis you hit forehands and backhands on court.   When you talk about working on the mental side of the game, what has he told you?   What's been a big change for you?  
NA LI:   He was change a lot.   First I would like to say first two days I hate it all because I have to change all the, how do you say, all thing from like long time ago.  
So first two days always fight.   Not I'm fight against Carlos, I was fighting against myself.   After one or two weeks was getting better and better.   
Yeah, so I mean, he was coming Cincy, so until now only two month.   For us, we really looking forward for the next year.   
Yeah.   
   
 Q.   Who do you think the best player of the year has been so far?   
NA LI:   Until now?   
   
 Q.   Until now.   
NA LI:   I would like to say everyone.   (Laughter.)  
   
 Q.   Too easy.   
NA LI:   You know, it's very tough to traveling for whole year.   Also for us we have to leave the family, the friend.   Only you can play alone.   You only come with the team for all the traveling.  
But I would like to say Serena is tough really.   I mean, I always say if she really, how you say, if she 100% on court, nobody can beat her.  
Yeah.   
   
 Q.   What do you want to say about the calendar of this tournament?   If it was played around mid‑season, would you consider it more important event or its value has the same for you?  
NA LI:   I don't know how think for other player, but every tournament is more important.   If you come on the court, you have to always be 100% otherwise I will pull out.   
Yeah.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT