CHINA OPEN
October 6, 2012
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. SHARAPOVA/N. Li
  6‑4, 6‑0 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in Chinese, please.   
   
 Q.   Can you make comments on your performance of this match?   There is a big difference between set 1 and set 2.   What might be the reasons for that?  
NA LI:   I think I played the match pretty well today.   Don't you think I have a very good performance here today?   
I can see that she had a better performance than I did, and she had better control of the match.  
   
 Q.   In the very beginning I watched the match, but I am influenced by the spectators.   Are you influenced by the spectators, as well?  
NA LI:   I want to say that it's lucky that you're not professional player.   I should have a better performance than you, because anyway, I stay till the last minute of the match.  
   
 Q.   I feel that actually in the first set your balls are very much even in terms of the performance.   At your last service game, something goes wrong.   Can you talk about your last service game?   Recently you have been making an adjustment to your service gesture or motion.   Does that influence your service in that game?  
NA LI:   I think my overall performance here today is good.   I think I have a very good performance, but if you don't believe so, it's your personal argument.  
I saw English newspaper today that Li Na is very much happy to be eligible to participate in WTA Final because she participate into WTA Final as a substitute last two years.   Actually, to be frank, I didn't get interview from that English newspaper, but actually, the information has been disclosed on that English newspaper.   That's really ridiculous.  
   
 Q.   Can you tell me what might have been the arrangement for your coach before you participate into the match.   What's your relationship with your ex‑coach, Thomas?   Can you make a comparison in terms of coaching staff between Thomas and Carlos?  
NA LI:   I don't think they are comparable with each other, because everybody is different.   For journalist they are different.   Players are different.   Coaches are different.   Everybody will be different.  
There's nothing to compare with each other.  
   
 Q.   After the match today, you're ready to prepare for WTA Final.   What kind of a plan do you have in this regard?  
NA LI:   It's just the end of this match.   I will give myself two or three days to make adjustment.   I will travel to Germany first.   I will meet again with my team in Istanbul to prepare for WTA Final.  
   
 Q.   When you prepare for WTA Final, I'm not sure whether WTA has already given you the options for you to choose your dress.   
NA LI:   You want to know?   
   
 Q.   Yes.   
NA LI:   I will not tell you that.   I will not tell you that.   Actually, I was only told last night that I'm eligible to participate in WTA Final.   
Also, I only got e‑mail from WTA officials.   They want to send their congratulations to me, but actually, I have no information about the dressing style for WTA.   I will tell you upon availability of that information.  
   
 Q.   Since we are talking about the dressing style of the WTA Final, you have already participated in WTA Final twice before.   So which dress in the past do you think suits you, suits your personality pretty well?  
NA LI:   I only participate into one party, and I got e‑mail from WTA last year during the US Open asking me to make a choice about the dressing.   I picked a traditional‑style Chinese dress last year.   
This year I've yet to receive an e‑mail from the WTA Final organizer committee about the dressing options, so I don't know yet.   
   
 Q.   So this season is really long.   In that case, you don't have much time to have a break.   So what kind of a plan do you have for next season?  
NA LI:   I think I will be more positive.   I will be more, you know, excited for next season.   Since my cooperation with Carlos, we have a very pleasant cooperation, our whole team.   We have goal.   That is to say we will participate into WTA Final.  
So eventually, at the last minute, we make our wish possible.   In that case, I'm very much satisfied with my performance and the past decision.   After termination of the season, I'm going to work out the plan for next season.   We will have a meeting with my team to find out what will be the objective for next year.   
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English.   
   
 Q.   You're turning 31 soon.   Andy Roddick just retired, and he's 30, 31.   Do you have any plans to maybe retire or are you going to keep going strong?  
NA LI:   So are you thinking 31 is too old or what?   
   
 Q.   No, I'm just asking.   
NA LI:   No, I think the age is nothing.   Just in the paper, plus one and one again.   I was feeling right now I was healthy.   I still can running on the court.   I'm still top in the world.   Why I should stop?   I should continue my dream and just keep going.   
   
 Q.   Getting to the semifinal is a huge achievement, but do you think the Chinese media will be critical of you because you failed to give them a home winner?  
NA LI:   I don't know about Chinese media.   You should ask them.   They're sitting behind you.   
For me, I was happy to be in the semi in China Open because last year I didn't do well.   Also, I know if I doing well I can be in Istanbul, so is more important for me.  
Also, you know, it's a big tournament, only big tournament in China, so I really want to show a lot of Chinese how good I am.  
Like today, I was try my best in the court, but I only can say Maria was better than me.   I have a lot of hard work in here.   Yeah, really looking forward for the Champions and also for next year.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT