CHINA OPEN
October 5, 2012
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. LI/A. Radwanska
  6‑4, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in Chinese, please. 

Q.   You have already beat Radwanska for three matches, so in that case, it's very much easy for you to win opponent like Radwanska?
NA LI:   I don't think so.   Every single match every week is won on the basis of hard work.

Q.   So your last press conference, when the match ended, it's about 11:30.   Physical fitness is really important.   What kind of preparation did you have for this match?
NA LI:   I can't change my schedule.   I have to follow the schedule. 
I can't say that because the match was ended very much late last night that I can't follow the schedule today.   I'm in this game, so I have to follow the schedule.

Q.   WTA has confirmed that you are eligible to play for WTA Finals. 
NA LI:   Are you sure? 

Q.   So through a victory today you have already be very much qualified to WTA.   You took control of this match.   You don't have to wait for others to fail so you can qualify.   Are you pleased?   Last year you were not in good form at year‑end Championships, so this year since you are more in form, are you really looking forward for WTA Final this year?
NA LI:   You know, previously I only know that I am No. 8.   I'm not sure I'm qualified or not.   What is in my mind, if I can be qualified, then I go for it.   If I'm not, then Beijing is my last stop. 
Are you sure I'm eligible for that?   Okay.   So I have a very high expectation for my performance in WTA Final.   I know that Bartoli is right behind me because Bartoli is basically belongs to No. 8, and also Sam is very much close to me, as well. 

Q.   You have already double‑checked with us whether you're qualified to play the WTA final.   It seems that you're very much looking forward to that.   When looking back on the experience of participating in WTA Final for many years, did you feel that you are getting more and more comfortable to play WTA Final because for a player like your level which became higher, you have a different feeling to play in the WTA Final? 
NA LI:   I think in 2010, at that time I was No. 9 and I participated in WTA Final as a replacement or as a substitute.   My coach say that, Okay, just go ahead.   Somebody else could be injured. 
Unfortunately, no one get injured, so at that time I think luck is not on my side.   I have been preparing for the match, because as a substitute you have to arrive early and leave the latest.
So if this time I am really qualified or eligible to participate in WTA Final, so in that case that's good news for me because I can participate in WTA as a player.   That's, you know, a reward or confirmed achievement I have already made in last year.

Q.   After the termination of China Open, what kind of preparation do you have for WTA Final?   Are you going to try to train here in China or will you travel to Germany to have physical fitness and play in Germany before going to Istanbul?
NA LI:   Actually, I probably will travel to Germany to do some physical fitness.   Next round I'm going to play against Sharapova.   We have already played many matches before.   I was defeated more than I win.
Anyway, I have very high expectation for the match tomorrow because I have already been qualified to play WTA Final.   What I'm going to do is enjoy the match with Sharapova.

Q.   Li Na, I want to ask, do you have already confirmed your schedule or plan to participate in the tournament before Australian Open? 
NA LI:   Because this year's season is yet to be completed, probably after termination of China Open I'm going to discuss with my team to work out the plan for next year. 

Q.   Compared with your double fault statistics, you have improved in terms of double faults.   Did you make any changes? 
NA LI:   Yes, I have already improved a lot in terms of the double faults.   I did make changes.   Otherwise I will have similar amount of double faults that I had yesterday.

Q.   For players that are very much into participating in the tournament organized in your home, you have already win four matches in a row, and all your opponent are very much competent.   You show your best side of yourself. 
NA LI:   Are you satisfied with my performance?   I will say that I'm very much satisfied or happy to have this performance, because last year I don't have very good performance and this year I make some adjustment to such a high level.
Anyway, the matches are yet to be completed.   That's why I still have a lot of expectations for next‑round match. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT