CHINA OPEN
October 2, 2012
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. LI/N. Petrova
  6‑1, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in Chinese, please. 

Q.   Congratulations for win.   I noticed that in the sixth game of the second set you have a very long battle with your opponent.   How are you trying to make adjustment to yourself and eventually win?
NA LI:   I think any time in the court, anything can happen.   I don't know how did I make adjustment to my mood.

Q.   You actually played Petrova for six times but you didn't win.   So today is a breakthrough for you.   After winning the match today, it's a breakthrough of your professional career.   Would that be correct?
NA LI:   I think that's, you know, the charm in playing tennis.   Every day you can challenge yourself.   You are defeated consecutively, but it doesn't mean you were defeated by her all the time.   This is sport.   You never know what's gonna happen. 
I'm very much glad to see that I'm still making progress in this match.

Q.   Another question is we noticed when you are in rush a little bit or when you are a little bit impatient you like to say something to your coach, and Carlos has said that you have to calm down.   He give you a gesture to make you calm down.   In that case, you have a very important role in balancing the relations between you and Carlos?
NA LI:   You are absolutely correct.   I think before Carlos jump in, I didn't have any intent to share with my team.   But I'm not sure ‑‑ how did you spot the detail that when I start to be impatient Carlos told me to calm down? 
I have to share this information to Carlos.   I think he will definitely share the same thing with me. 

Q.   Today you have a very good performance in terms of the receiving the service. 
NA LI:   I think yes, you can say that, because Petrova have already made a lot of changes, and I made some changes, as well.   So we have to translate those skills into reality.
Otherwise you will waste the practice.   Alex got sick today so he's absent, so that's why my team said that today we have a very good opportunity because my team can feel that they are making progress in this regard already. 

Q.   I will follow the questions from the previous reporters.   When you employed the coach, you definitely need some time to get along with the coaches.   How long does that take between you and your coach Carlos?   When people are choosing the coaches they have to have some standard.   Since you have already chose Carlos to be your coach, does it mean that you will follow his suggestions or instructions all the time?
NA LI:   So actually when we meet for the first time, he told me that why he didn't choose to coach player until he came to China for one year after and give me a lot of reasons.   So after I chosen him definitely I will give a lot of credit or confidence to him.
Even my team we have meeting on a regular basis.   We make a plan, and everybody will play their role.   It's not the case that we just work out, you know, a temporary solution.   We have overall schedule or plan, all of us already. 

Q.   Can you share with me your thought about next opponent, Peng Shuai?
NA LI:   What do you want to know? 

Q.   What's your view about Peng Shuai?
NA LI:   Okay, the answer is okay what we gonna do is play against her, so I'm not sure what you want to cover in the news report. 
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English.

Q.   Going off the last question, I guess can you talk about your relationship with Peng Shuai?
NA LI:   Just come to the court.   Play my tennis. 

Q.   I know you guys used to live together and train together.   Does that kind of come into your mind at all when you're playing against her?
NA LI:   No.   I have my team around with me, so I just doing what my team say. 

Q.   What changes has Carlos made to your game?   You're enjoying a good run since you have had him on board. 
NA LI:   I really have to say he's very good coach.   I mean, he's not only teach me how to play tennis.   It's more important for, how you say, the whole team to make the goal.   And also, he was teach me a lot how to doing on the court.   I mean, before I was always like easy to explosion on the court.   Now I think I change a lot.

Q.   What do you think it says, I guess, about the state of tennis in China or maybe that it's advancing, that, you know, you have two Chinese players playing in the third round of a major tournament like this?
NA LI:   I mean, tennis in China getting better and better.   I think everyone can see.
Also right now so many children pick up the tennis racquet, as well.   I mean, it's good for tennis player, both player come to the third round.   At least one player can come to the fourth round, as well.   Looking forward to see that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT