CHINA OPEN
September 30, 2012
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. LI/F. Schiavone
  6‑2, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in Chinese, please.   
   
 Q.   Congratulations.   Past your first round.   I noticed a small detour in that match.   You tape one note paper over the chairs.   Every time you come back you see that and remind yourself.   What's that?  
NA LI:   Actually it's a message to remind me to be confident and also to remind me what might be areas to give special care.  
So in the very beginning I will look at that note.   But when I get used to that, I don't have to look at it on a regular basis.   I did make some changes.  
I'm sure that if you only can give psychological hint to a player who is not good at playing, I think that note is not working at all.   So performance is most important; psychology is the second.   
   
 Q.   In the interview about autobiography, you mentioned you want to end the China Open last year as soon as possible to go to a place to belong to yourself.   
NA LI:   The answer is I don't think people can make the same mistake at one place because last year after I come to China Open after the Grand Slam title I think all the audiences and myself gave too much pressure to me.     
I experienced the Grand Slam title and failure afterwards.   So I will not think it a big thing anymore.  
   
 Q.   Will you make some change to the serve?   I noticed that you have made a lot of errors and also you have made a lot of mistakes.   
NA LI:   Yes, I believe that I made a lot of mistakes, but I get more wins.  
   
 Q.   How do you feel when you win the match?   How is Carlos going to try to spend the Mid‑Autumn Festival?  
NA LI:   I think he will go back to spend the Mid‑Autumn Festival with his family.   He even brought his family to watch the match.   
I'm so glad to have him to watch the match, because the match is arranged in the evening.   We don't know when the match will end and what kind of arrangement after the match, so when we go back home we just go through some treatment.   Then we will be ready for next tournament.   
   
 Q.   Actually tonight we have your match and also the final of the Voice of China.   Did you keep a close watch on that?   Do you have your favorite singer in that program?   
NA LI:   How should I make a response to answer?   
   
 Q.   Today when I watched your match I feel quite calm.   
NA LI:   Is that because of the Mid‑Autumn Festival?   
   
 Q.   From my perspective, you have a very good performance.   Can you make comment on your personal performance?  
NA LI:   Yes, after I failed in Tokyo tournament, all my team have already sitdown to have a very thorough discussion for a very long time.   Of course the team will not blame me that I have very bad performance.   They will help me to spot the problem to be addressed.  
In the past couple days Carlos is always there to help me make correction.   I will fight as a team to win the first match today.   If we fail to win even the first match, I don't think it makes sense to discuss further.  
   
 Q.   Currently we only have four Grand Slam title holders who are above 30 years old.   You and Schiavone are two of them.   Do you have any specific...   
NA LI:   Yes.   You can ask me directly what I feel to fight against Petrova.   Everybody‑‑ you know, age is not a watershed, and 30 is not a watershed.   
It doesn't mean that I have to retire when I was 30.   I want to remind you not to ask questions related to age anymore.  
   
 Q.   For you, you're very much expecting to participating in WTA year‑end final.   China Open is a very important match for you to earn points.   How do you try to relieve the pressure in this regard?  
NA LI:   Actually, China Open is the last match I'm going to play this year.   If I have opportunity to participate in the WTA final, then I will participate.   If not, I will not make some change into the schedule.   
I don't give in to too much pressure, because after all, for tennis you never know how your performance is going to be.   You don't know the performance of the opponent either.   
What really matters is you can experience the whole match and concentrate.   
THE MODERATOR:   On to English questions.   
   
 Q.   Tonight there were a lot of fans in the audience chanting your name.   Did that motivate you through to a win?   
NA LI:   My name is so easy, easy to say.   I would like to say thanks to the fans.   Today is, how you say, they should eat moon cake in China.   They should stay with family, but I would like to say thanks to the fans who come to the court to support me.   
Yeah.   I was feeling much better this year than last year.   At least I win one match.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT