U.S. OPEN
August 31, 2012
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 L. ROBSON/N. Li
  6‑4, 6‑7, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You never played her before?  
NA LI:   No, first time.  
   
 Q.   First time?  
NA LI:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   What do you think of her game?  
NA LI:   Huge first serve.   Yeah.   I mean, I was feeling still have chance, not like didn't have chance.   So I think I was making a lot of mistake in my, how you say, whole match, so of course give a lot of free point for her.   
Made her like, oh, I got more confidence.   Oh, I can beat her.  
   
 Q.   Are you disappointed with the way you played today or do you think she just beat you?  
NA LI:   It was a little bit, how you say, not so happy about today, I play that way.   
   
 Q.   I heard the British radio reporter giving a live radio report, very excited, of course, and said that he thought she could be a top‑10 player in short amount of time.   Do you see her as somebody who could be a top‑10 player in a short amount of time?   
NA LI:   Wow.   I don't think I have good eyes, so I really have no idea.   But if she continue play like this, of course she can beat, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Would you give her a good chance against Stosur in the next round?  
NA LI:   This up to her.   I mean, I couldn't say anything.   I couldn't do anything.   She has to play.   
   
 Q.   On that performance today though, the tennis she played today would be good enough to beat Stosur?  
NA LI:   I mean, the tennis is not only if you can doing good job if you win the match.   You have to see what the opponent do, also.  
   
 Q.   Will you go home at this point?   What are you going to add to your arsenal so you can move to the next round?  
NA LI:   Of course I have to take free days off.   I can't go back to tennis court tomorrow.   I mean, this should be killing me.   
Of course after match I have to talk to the team, because maybe they saw more clear on all of the court.   So of course we have to plan on whether we should do next step, yeah.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT