WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 17, 2012
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. LI/A. Radwanska
  6‑1, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Two convincing wins today.   How do you feel physically?  
NA LI:   Of course tired but in the mind I was feeling strong, and, yeah, I can win the both match.   
Yeah, it's very tough yesterday because the rain.   To today the match have to play twice, so, yeah.   
   
 Q.   You've got Venus Williams next.   2‑0 against.   You haven't played her in two years.   Are you excited about that matchup?  
NA LI:   Of course.   I saw her play today against Sam.   I mean, she play very well.   For me, just come to the court just play my tennis, yeah.  
   
 Q.   Do you remember back in your first two meetings what worked for you, why you were effective against her?  
NA LI:   I mean, I still remember in Australian Open she has like 5‑3‑up in the second set.   So that's just two years ago, so, I mean, two years can changing everything.  
I know she's tough opponent to against.   So, yeah, just come to the court.   Just enjoy.   Just play my tennis.  
   
 Q.   You have been working with Carlos for a couple days now.   How is it going so far?  
NA LI:   It's not bad.   (Smiling.)  
Yeah, because we start working yesterday.   But, I mean, like yesterday was like first time to meeting, but before in Montreal and also in Olympics he always send me text message every match.   
So I think we have very good communication.  
   
 Q.   What was it like meeting him in person for the first time?   Is he different than you expected at all?  
NA LI:   First time so skinny.   (Laughter.)  
Yeah, I know now he's living in China so I was asking he speak Chinese, but he say it's very tough to learn Chinese.   Yeah, and also we talk about like why he come to my team, why I need him to help, blah, blah.   
I think it was very good, because we know each other a lot right now.   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   You said you got text messages from him.   Were those mostly support or suggestions on tactics against opponents?  
NA LI:   No, I got e‑mail, text messages, like, Oh, I saw your match; well done.   I'm not coaching you, I'm not teach you or something, I just saw something.   Maybe you can prove yourself a little bit.  
I got like everything positive thing going, so I like the way.   Sometimes my husband give me very tough time, you know.   
   
 Q.   Carlos came out.   You called him in the second set and you had won nine games.   She had only won one.   Why call a coach then?  
NA LI:   I think he's sitting too long.   I need him to move a little bit.   No, because normally I just continue the match, but suddenly she call official.   
So I say, Okay, maybe I can call him to come down.   Or I know I was like 9‑1‑up, but I still need do something like go forward.   Yeah, because I really want to finish the match quickly because today I play twice.  
   
 Q.   What did he tell you?  
NA LI:   He just say everything was good.   Just continue.   
And now you have to show she has really trouble, yeah, like that.   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   How are you feeling physically after a couple matches?   I know it's early, but how does it feel different playing two matches in one day?  
NA LI:   I mean, because I do the same in Montreal.   Yeah, like same draw, same schedule, as well.   Right now I just really want to finish here and then go back to sleep.   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   Carlos only really coached one player before mostly, Justine Henin.   What do you remember about watching her play?   Is there anything in particular in her game that made her so successful you'd like to add to your game?  
NA LI:   I was feeling like before‑‑ I was just watch Justine play, and I was feeling she was like so cool player.   She never showed like anger or something for opponent.  
So that's why like after today, the first match, also Carlos tell me the same.   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   Are you going to be able to consult with her at all, or do you plan on reaching out to her with respect to...   
NA LI:   Of course I'm much different than her, how strong she is.   Right now I try to like stand up again, because I know start this year so many peoples ask me, When you retire?   
So I mean, I really want to challenge for myself, try one more time to see, I mean, how far I can get.  
   
 Q.   You made the final last week and now you're into the semifinals.   Is this as confident as you've been in your tennis for maybe almost a year?  
NA LI:   Yeah, I mean, after ‑‑ I would like to say after French I didn't do well.   So many people think I was win Grand Slam because so lucky I have the best draw ever.   
So I was happy right now.   I still can running on the court, I still can hit ball on the court, so I still can challenge for myself.   I was happy what I'm doing now.   
   
 Q.   You said that he is too skinny.   Maybe you try to convince him to change the Chinese diet so he will get strong like you are.   
NA LI:   I'm also skinny.   (Laughter.)   I mean, this I couldn't change, but I saw ‑‑because before I only saw in the television, so maybe TV make him like stronger.   
But first time I meet him I really think, Oh, he's skinny.   It's nothing about bad thing.   Yeah.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT