ROGERS CUP WOMEN
August 12, 2012
Na Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. LI/L. Safarova
  3‑6, 6‑3, 7‑5

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How amazing does that feel?
NA LI:   It's not bad.   (Smiling.)
I mean, I was happy first time I can be in the final in Montreal.   Looking forward to the final.

Q.   Were your legs a little heavy at the end of the match or hard to get into the match?   Because she hit so hard.   You had a tough day yesterday. 
NA LI:   Yeah, because, I mean, always a little bit tough against a lefty, because the serve different speed.   I was play Safarova so many times before.   We always have tough time.   We always have tough match.   I know she's a very tough opponent to be against.
Also, I think beginning of the match, I mean, I have a lot mistake in the returns, so it give her a lot of chance.

Q.   After you beat Radwanska you said it was unbelievable and you don't know how you did it.   Now you're into the final, do you believe it and do you know how you did it?
NA LI:   Yeah, I believe I was in the final.   It's true.   (Smiling.)
Yeah, I mean, just enjoy the final.

Q.   What's going through your mind when you're down 5‑1, staying in there?
NA LI:   The real thing is that nothing in my mind, because I'm still play on the court, you know.   It's so short time you couldn't think on the court.
Yeah, I just talk to myself just like point by point, just try to play ball back to the court to see how it's going.   Yeah.

Q.   And when did you have that feeling that you still were in it, had a chance to win it, it was definitely changing and the momentum was now yours?   When did it kind of strike you, 5‑3, 5‑2, 5‑4? 
NA LI:   I was feel like 5‑4, because then I have my serve game.   I think after come back, make more exciting for the fans.   I think that they are also, I mean, support me a lot.   So, yeah. 

Q.   When it was 5‑1 in the match, at this point you had broken her just once and you did that three times afterwards.   What did you change in her service?
NA LI:   I mean, I really didn't change anything.   In a short time, I can't change, of course.   So just put ball back to the court, I think, because beginning of the match I tried to shoot as hard again, so a lot of mistake. 

Q.   You said you were talking to yourself when you were down.   What were you telling yourself?
NA LI:   Just like, Put ball back in the court.   (Laughter.)
This is tennis.   You have to put ball back to the court and over the net.   Looks like easy, but sometimes I couldn't do, you know.   It's simple, but sometimes it's tough to do.   Yeah.

Q.   How did you find the right way to stabilize your forehand?
NA LI:   I feel my forehand was not bad.

Q.   I didn't say it was bad.   But you were making more mistakes to go down 5‑1, and then after that you didn't make any more mistakes. 
NA LI:   Yeah, because before I really ‑‑I tried to finish point like quickly, you know.   So I want like shoot like winner.   So after, yeah, 5‑1 down, I think if I shoot like four in a row I would lose the match.   So I have to change a little bit. 

Q.   You will face Caroline or Petra in the final.   Can you talk about your encounters with them and how you feel about facing one or the other?
NA LI:   I mean, at least now they still have to play, so, yeah, I can take coffee to watch the match, enjoy to see that. 
I know it's like both players are very tough, like I play many times before.   Always tough match.   So, yeah, tomorrow at least I was in the final, so just enjoy.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT