ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 24, 2018
Dave Clawson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We are joined by Wake Forest head coach Dave Clawson.
Coach, please give us an opening statement, then we'll take questions.
DAVE CLAWSON: We're looking forward to get back on the road this week, bounce back after a tough game at Florida State.  We got off to a good start, made some critical errors, found ourselves behind in the second half.
I thought our kids continued to compete and play hard, but there's a lot of mistakes we got to get cleaned up.  We need to get them cleaned up to play a very improved Louisville team.
Q. Could you just expand a little bit on what challenges Louisville presents to you this weekend.
DAVE CLAWSON: Well, they're always one of the most talented teams we play against.  They're very difficult to prepare for offensively.  They probably run more personnel groups and more formations, unbalanced in the variety of their run game from traditional I runs, spread runs, power reads, zone reads.  It's a very difficult preparation.
Defensively they play an odd front, which isn't as common as it once was.  So there's just a lot of unique things they do on both sides of the ball, combined with their skill set and ability level.
Q. You were just mentioning Louisville.  Talk about what quarterbacks do you have to prepare for?  They have so many different quarterbacks and don't have Lamar Jackson.
DAVE CLAWSON: We certainly are going to prepare for the two that have played the most.  They both have a little different skill sets.  Cunningham is the leading rusher on the team.  I think Pass has played a lot better the last couple of weeks.
Coach always does a great job with quarterbacks.  He'll have them prepared.  If you watched the Florida State and BC game, I think there's no question they're improving.
Q. What about their defense?
DAVE CLAWSON: I mean, we think they're good.  They're big up front.  The linebackers are mobile.  They've always been good in the secondary.  We've always struggled to move the ball against them except for last year.  That was the only year we had any success against them.
They're a good football team and very talented, well-coached.  We're not playing real well right now.  We need to get better.  We need to make sure that we cut down on our mistakes, the amount of big plays we're giving up, our red zone offense.
As much as you prepare for an opponent, the challenge within a season is to get your own football team better regardless of who you play.  We certainly have enough going on with that right now, never mind the issues and the dilemmas that Louisville presents to us.
Q. There were still some bright spots from the Florida State game.  Talk about those.
DAVE CLAWSON: I just thought that we got off to a good start on offense.  It was good to get Scotty Washington back.  I thought defensively we started the game out very well, but most importantly I thought our kids competed hard for four quarters, which I couldn't say that after the Clemson game.  Those are steps.  We just got to keep taking them.
THE MODERATOR: Coach Clawson, thank you.
DAVE CLAWSON: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT