SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 2, 2020
Kristoffer Ventura
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Kristoffer, well played out there, particularly the up-and-down at 18.  Describe how difficult it was from over the back of the green there.
KRISTOFFER VENTURA:   You know, it was very difficult.  I was just happy if I could get on inside six, seven feet, and to hit it to a foot was great.  Good way to finish, other than that three-putt on 17 that I just lost focus for a second.
Q. What's been a key for you this week?  All the players are talking about the greens; what's been the key for you?
KRISTOFFER VENTURA:   I'm driving it really well, so I'm in position most of the time, and I'm decently long off the tee, so I guess that's an advantage, but also putting.  Usually putting is my strongest part of my game, and with these greens, it's hard not to make putts.
Q. This is your second season now, a little bit of a reprieve getting to play again.  You went to school at OSU with both Matthew Wolff and Viktor Hovland.  Do you talk to those guys about what it's like to play out here?
KRISTOFFER VENTURA:   I do, and I get asked the same question every single week:  Do you know Wolff, do you know Viktor.  So I'm just trying to get out of that -- so maybe they can ask a question about me, right.  No, obviously what they've done is super motivating.  Like I've said in the past, there's no jealousy or anything, it's just great to see that they've both won and they're on top of the world.  It just shows that it's possible, and that's exactly what I'm trying to do, so I'm excited about the process.
Q. It's your second time around now; what did you learn during your first season that either surprised you or you feel like now you're going to be better at?
KRISTOFFER VENTURA:   Just playing my game, doing what's comfortable for me, not try to imitate other players and try to chase other careers.  This guy has won that tournament or is top 10 or whatever.  Just focus on yourself, and that's what I've done the last few weeks, and it's paying off.  If I just do my best, that's all I can ask for and I can sleep good tonight.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT