NBA 2K LEAGUE DRAFT
April 4, 2018
Trong Nguyen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Trong Nguyen was selected by Warriors Gaming Squad with the No. 17 overall pick in the 2018 NBA 2K League Draft. His gamer tag is Shawn_Win.
Q. What's your name, your team, your position?
TRONG NGUYEN: My name is Trong Nguyen, my gaming tag is Shawn_Win.  I play for the Warriors now, and my position is small forward.
Q. How long have you been playing NBA 2K?
TRONG NGUYEN: I've been playing NBA 2K for a long time, probably since 2K7, 2K8, but I've been playing competitively since 2K14, since the black part came out, so definitely a long time in order to get that good.
Q. What made you transition from casual to professional?
TRONG NGUYEN: First of all, I love the game, so just loving the game just helped me just playing the game a lot, and I'm also really competitive, as well, so I love the atmosphere, I love the Pro-Am community, I just love everything about it, so that's why playing the game is what I do.
Q. What sort of daily regimen did it take to get you here now?
TRONG NGUYEN: Nothing really -- I have a pretty busy life, as well.  I go to school.  I also work full time, but I also play the game so much.  It's kind of disgusting how much I play the game.  But those other guys definitely put in the hours, and I definitely put in the hours, as well.  Just having a good night, playing the game for a couple hours for sure.
Q. Do you have any advice for anyone that wants to make the switch from casual to professional?
TRONG NGUYEN: Yeah, if you want to make the switch, definitely you've got to put the time in.  You've got to play the game as much as you can and try to learn and just try to get into the community, have a social media, have a Twitter, try to get yourself, like I said, into the community and make a name for yourself.
Q. If you're not playing NBA 2K, what are you playing?
TRONG NGUYEN: If I'm not playing NBA 2K, I always find myself going back to NBA 2K, so I don't really play any other games, but lately I've been playing Fortnite.  If it's not Fortnite, I'm definitely playing NBA 2K.
Q. Are you good at Fortnite?
TRONG NGUYEN: No, not really, no.  Definitely not.
Q. The Pro-Am community, how does it feel to see the community come as far as it has to where the best players are now getting drafted?
TRONG NGUYEN: You know, it's a great feeling watching the community grow as much as they did because the community is still small, and it's growing every single day.  Hopefully after today or after the next couple years, the 2K league is going to expand.  Over 30 teams are going to come into the 2K league, and it's just going to be great to see how it all grows for sure.
Q. Three or four years ago, did you ever think this would be possible?
TRONG NGUYEN: Definitely not.  The 2K league, playing 2K professionally is definitely not what I expected, but like I said, times are definitely changing, the 2K league is changing, so hopefully this will continue on.
Q. What was the tryout process like, through the combine, then getting to this point with the 102?
TRONG NGUYEN: Yeah, it was definitely a difficult and long process.  First you have to win -- you have to play the game.  You have to have a NBA 2K team, obviously, and you've got to play 50 games -- team Pro-Am or walk-on, which is pretty much playing with random people, once you get your 50 wins, you qualify for the combine, and over 80,000 people qualified for the combine, and you just play the combine, you get as much stats as you can, get as much wins as you can, and whatever happens happens, and then eventually I was one of the best small forwards in the league, so I'm glad the Warriors chose to pick me.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT