NBA FINALS: PISTONS v SPURS
June 8, 2005
Bruce Bowen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BRUCE BOWEN:  For me, I think that you know what he's capable of.  So with a guy that's capable of knocking down the shots he knocks down, you don't want him to get anything wide open.  I think that's just leading him to a big night when you allow him to get shots that's wide open. My thing is I try to make sure that I get a hand up or contest as many shots as I can, so I don't want him taking wide open shots.  If he takes a wide open shot and he missed two before, that's enough for him to put him into his rhythm.  
 
Q.  Can you talk about how much each round he has gotten better (Tim Duncan), the level of play? 
 
BRUCE BOWEN:  I think Tim is Tim.  He's what makes us go.  It's no big secret.  I think the media tries to come up with something new and improved to say about Tim and I think he's a wonderful player and that's who he is.  
 
Q.  Is this week off the best thing that could have happened for Tim?
 
BRUCE BOWEN:  You'd have to ask Tim that.  
 
Q.  Is there something about Tim?  Is he maybe one of the secrets to your defensive success because you always know he's behind you? 
 
BRUCE BOWEN:  He is, I'd have to say yes.  But when I'm defending somebody, you know, it's nice to know that you do have somebody that's able to help you.  He really helps out when I do something wrong.  
 
Q.  Can you talk about your evolution at the defensive end. 
 
BRUCE BOWEN:  A whole lot over the past five years.  I look forward to getting better, you know, in different aspects of the game, and knowing better where my guy is and maybe I can help out someone else, so be it.   But at the same time I think it's just I'm committed to doing what I have to do to stay on the court and if that's what helps our team win, then so be it.  
 
Q.  Do you like this better? 
 
BRUCE BOWEN:  I'm in the NBA Finals.  I think anybody, you take any type of scorer or anything and you put them in a certain role as I have now, the things that we have accomplished, I think they would do this over anything.  
 
Q.  Do you think this will be a good series for basketball?  Both teams are very team-oriented, not a lot of glitz on either side. 
 
BRUCE BOWEN:  I think those who really understand the game are really going to enjoy this series.  It's not a matter of one team dominating another.  It's not about the flash or anything like that or who is putting up the most points so to speak, or certain players going 40 or 50 or things of that nature.  It's a matter of two good basketball teams that are well-coached and both of them understand the defensive aspect of the game. 
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT