NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v SPURS
June 6, 2007
Bruce Bowen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  What do you think about the challenge of guarding LeBron.  What specific things do you try to do? 
 BRUCE BOWEN:  Any way I can gain 40 pounds overnight?  He's so strong and young that I just -- it's hard to believe that he's 22 years old and the body of a 30-year-old and has been working out his whole life.  That creates problems.  There's nothing you can do about that.  There are certain things you can do to adjust to it, but when people are just physically gifted and that talented, it creates a difficulty. 

 Q.  Did last summer help as far as knowing a little bit more about it? 
 BRUCE BOWEN:  We didn't play against each other.  I was on his team so I was the beneficiary of a lot of those passes.  It was something fun to be a part of, to be able to get to know someone on a personal level.  But the personal level now is just strictly respect because we understand that he wants to win, I want to win, and we're going to do our best to help our teams do that. 

 Q.  Guarding somebody that has a green light all the time, though, does that change you at all as far as your approach? 
 BRUCE BOWEN:  That's basically what I do night in and night out.  The thing with situations like that is making sure you don't get frustrated.  They're going to have shots.  It's not like they're going to give him ten shots and maybe you can take away three of them.  They're going to continue to figure out a way to get him going, and it's important that we just stay the course throughout the whole process of the game and just keep pounding the rock, so to speak. 

 Q.  (Inaudible). 
 BRUCE BOWEN:  Well, it only helps, I think, with adverse situations.  You almost know that you can't get too high or too low with one call or two calls.  You have to move on to the next play.  And in the process of moving on to the next play, you try as quickly as possible to adjust to whatever it is that has been done and go from there. 

 Q.  What do you use to go from Nash and Williams to now LeBron? 
 BRUCE BOWEN:  As part of the process and during the season, there's times where it's Kobe, Tracy and Ray.  I think it allows me to stay sharp mentally as far as not allowing any complacency to set in because I understand that it's important for what I do for my team to be on every night. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT