NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: JAZZ v SPURS
May 27, 2007
Bruce Bowen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Bruce, can I ask you your opinion on Deron Williams, why you think he has developed as quickly as he has and he is such a good point guard? 
 BRUCE BOWEN:  I think part of it is that he spent so much time in college.  He wasn't necessarily the man in college.  He wasn't a feature guy.  He was the guy that kept the whole group together. 
 They got to the National Championship his senior year, his last year in college.  I think that has a lot to do with his development.  Other than he is a good player, I think that time in college helped him out a great deal to understand the game. 

 Q.  What impresses you about the way that he plays? 
 BRUCE BOWEN:  Just more or less as a point guard he has a lot of responsibilities and he is able to try to get other guys off and understand when it is his time as compared to him just trying to go out and do it on his own each and every night. 

 Q.  Did you view last night as an aberration for this team or is there some concern based on what happened? 
 BRUCE BOWEN:  You have to be concerned with the way they outworked us.  They deserve everything they got last night, and we have to come out with a better effort and show that's the reason why we are where we are, as well. 

 Q.  Is that the type of game where you trash the film and don't worry about it and just look to the next game? 
 BRUCE BOWEN:  There is nothing you can do about it as far as what went down.  You can learn from it, though. 
 It is a lot of soul searching as far as really being honest with yourself and the competitiveness that you brought to the game yesterday, which wasn't the best you had in the previous games. 

 Q.  Why would the confidence with this team be different tomorrow night? 
 BRUCE BOWEN:  Because of the way it happened yesterday, everybody is not happy with our effort yesterday.  We understand that we're a much better team than we displayed yesterday. 
 We want to come out and give a better effort more than anything else. 

 Q.  Talk about a lot of different guard challenges in the playoffs, Iverson, Nash, at times.  Talk about Deron.  Is it because of his size, a lot more difficult to guard. 
 BRUCE BOWEN:  Part of Deron's ability right now is that he is so young in the game -- in the league, I'm sorry.  He is a good player and he just hasn't been around where you see him a lot. 
 So it is like he's really -- this is like his coming-out party right now and he didn't play necessarily this way as far as the responsibilities and things of that nature as far as the decision-making early on in the season. 
 He is doing that now, though. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT