US OPEN
September 3, 2020
J.J. Wolf
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. WOLF/R. Carballes Baena
6-2, 6-4, 6-3
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
Q. What were your expectations coming into the US Open?
J.J. WOLF:   I wanted to play some solid tennis and see how far it could take me.  Very excited about getting into this third round.
Q. Talk about your match today.  Had match point on your serve.  What was going through your mind during that particular serve?  Things can roll downhill.
J.J. WOLF:   Did I have a match point on my serve?  I don't think I had one.
Q. It was 5-2, serving at 5-2 in the fourth set.
J.J. WOLF:   I only played three sets today.
Q. But you had 5-2.  Whatever.
J.J. WOLF:   I think he played a great return game at 5-2.  I think he had two or three winners.  I just brushed it off, said, Next game.  I tried to put all my energy into each point, ended up getting the break.
Q. Can you clarify what was going on in the photo after your first-round match, the photo that's since been taken down.
J.J. WOLF:   Yeah, I was pumped.  It was my first win.  I did an 'all good' symbol with my hands.  I had no knowledge it meaning anything else.  I don't have a racist bone in my body, very diverse friend group.  You know, the comments that were made were disgusting to me.
Q. I saw that you reposted something about Agassi with the hair, that's been getting a lot of attention.  Are you familiar with that stage of Andre's career?  Did you enjoy watching him?  Is that the guy you want to be, exciting for the fans?
J.J. WOLF:   Yeah, I think he had fun with his style.  I always enjoy watching his highlights.  Such a talented player.  I wouldn't say the hair is totally based off of him.  It's a tribute to him, I'm fine with that.
Q. Obviously next round there's the potential you could face one of the best players in the world on a big court.  Is that something you would cherish?
J.J. WOLF:   Definitely.  Work my butt off every day to try to get to matches like these.  I'm going to try to make the most of it, see if I can play my best tennis.
Q. I see you're wearing a Jackets jersey.  John Isner was watching hockey in the bubble.  Your team is not in the Playoffs any more.  Is that how you've been keeping busy?
J.J. WOLF:   I'll watch a little bit of hockey.  One of my best friends from my college team, and also roommate, Mikael Torpegaard, is very close to a couple of the Blue Jackets players.  I thought I'd try to show them a little support, whether they're in or out.
I've been to a couple games.  They're honestly awesome.  I'm very happy to represent that jersey.
Q. Usually with breakout wins at the US Open as an American, it goes along and corresponds with the raucous pro-American crowd.  How weird is this to not have the crowd for your breakthrough in a Grand Slam?  Can you generate any extra motivation from being in your home Grand Slam despite the lack of fans?  Is there a memory that you have of watching the US Open crowd on television?
J.J. WOLF:   Yeah, you know, I've got my team here rooting me on.  A lot of my buddies and family back home.  That definitely gives me a little edge personally, I think.
The US Open crowds in the past, even when I played juniors, have been unbelievable.  We're definitely missing out on that.  I'm honestly just happy to be playing some good tennis.  Hopefully next year I can experience the real deal.
Q. Do you sometimes think about creating crowd noise in your head?
J.J. WOLF:   I guess I should probably start doing that.  I don't think I've done that in the past.  I've played a lot of challengers where there aren't too many fans.  I'm not unused to it.  Yeah, I don't know.  I'll probably try to do that.
Q. How disappointed are you that there are unfortunately no fans in attendance?
J.J. WOLF:   Yeah, it's definitely a different feel here.  Especially with all the awesome stadiums the US Open has, New Yorkers and everyone from around the world usually fill up, and make it rowdy and fun for the players.
It's still awesome being here.  I wish there could be big crowds rooting me on.  As I said, I'm just happy to be here and playing some tennis.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT