AL DIVISION SERIES: RANGERS v YANKEES
October 9, 1999
Johny Oates
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. How good is it to be home?
 
 JOHNNY OATES: It's always good to be home. Wish it was under different circumstances.
But we've talked to the guys about focusing on one game, Game 3; you can't win three games
in one night. You have to win tonight; one pitch, one bat, whatever your opportunities
are. Take care of business tonight, and the other two are down the road. 
 
Q. How do they seem to feel tonight?
 
 JOHNNY OATES: They're in pretty good spirits. A lot better spirits today than they were
in the workout a couple days ago. 
 
Q. When you talked to them today, Johnny, is that a special meeting, or do you guys
have a little team meeting before every postseason game?
 
 JOHNNY OATES: This year was the first year that I've ever managed that I never called a
single meeting to air this ballclub out. We had a couple meetings to remind them of what
needed to be done. I never saw a lack of intensity, a lack of hustle, a lack of desire.
Sometimes maybe we got a little carried away with our focus, and weren't doing some of the
things I thought we could do. We'd sit down and talk about it. In my years of managing
this ballclub, I did not have to sit down and chew out guys. They have been very
professional all year, and we did not have a team meeting today. We were talking amongst
ourselves. I think it's obvious what's at stake and what's ahead. 
 
Q. Johnny, what does it say about the Yankee's balance that even with O'Neill out, they
still have a pretty formidable outfield? How does their balance and depth compare with
other teams?
 
 JOHNNY OATES: I would classify that more as depth that you can take a No. 3 hitter out
on a day like today. I don't know what O'Neill's condition is, but I've got a feeling if
this is the fifth game, he'd be playing. But again, that's what you have to have to get
where all of us are in the playoffs. Throughout the year you had to have depth; you had to
have guys step in. We had Roberto Kelly, Luis Alicea step in and give our outfielders a
day off. But you get to this point, you like to have your horses out there every inning.
It's not to be able to put someone out there -- Curtis has been around a long time. He
knows how to play the game. It's part of the depth that's so important for a ballclub.  
 
Q. Can you recall Juan Gonzalez's performance in '96 and how great it would be to see
him break out in that way?
 
 JOHNNY OATES: Well, first of all, he did have an outstanding four-game series, hitting
five home runs, drove in, what, nine of our 16 runs or something like that. If that
doesn't answer the question, one guy can't do it by himself. I don't think I could explain
it any better. Just look at those numbers. Juan may come up to the bat like he did the
other night, still hit the home run, and we only get one home run. We need everyone to
produce. If he's not, somebody else will do it. 
 
Q. What does it take to beat the Yankees in a series like this?
 
 JOHNNY OATES: Three wins. (Laughs). The Yankees have a good ballclub. That goes without
being said. They don't beat themselves. The ballgame the other night, really, I think
could have gone either way. I thought we played decent. I thought they played decently.
They ended up winning 3-1. The night before, they didn't make any mistakes; we did. It
being 2-1, 1-0 ballgame, I firmly believe we made mistakes that could have cost us seven
of those eight runs. You can't play those type games, that type baseball and expect to win
consistently. 
 
Q. The players talked a lot about just trying to have fun. Is that something that you
think they weren't doing or do you see them trying to do that today?
 
 JOHNNY OATES: Well, first of all, at this level, this game, it's not to say, "Have
fun." There's only one time you have fun, and that's when you win. I don't know, it
just takes a lot of the fun out of it when you lose. It's the thing, what do we have to
lose? We have one baseball game to lose. We're trying to win a World Championship here.
Let it go, we have nothing to lose; yes, we do. We have one more baseball game to lose. I
want them to enjoy playing the game of baseball. I don't want them to be uptight. But I
never got used to losing yet. 
 
Q. Do you have any tricks in your back pocket that you haven't tried?
 
 JOHNNY OATES: No. Everybody has seen all my tricks. They're old and worn out. They're
not even feeling well today. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT