AL DIVISION SERIES: RANGERS v YANKEES
October 8, 1999
Johny Oates
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Johnny, do you plan on going with the regular line-up you used against Hernandez on
Tuesday?
 
 JOHNNY OATES: Yes: Yes. McLemore. The only decision would be I would expect -- well,
McLemore, Pudge, Greer, Gonzalez, Palmeiro, and it would be tomorrow afternoon's decision
to see whether Palmeiro plays first. DH, Palmeiro, Zeile, Clayton. 
 
Q. Johnny, can you talk about your team's confidence level at this point?
 
 JOHNNY OATES: Certainly we know our back's to the wall. I think what we have to do is
we have to focus on tomorrow's game only. We can't be thinking about trying to win three
ball games. We have enough trouble winning one. That's all we're playing tomorrow, and
we're going to be focused on winning one tomorrow. Certainly, the more you get beat, the
more your confidence gets shattered. As long as I have been in this game I've come to
learn that eventually the worm turns. May not turn on the day you want it to, but it does
turn. 
 
Q. How disappointeding has this been for you? You had such a good offensive team, to
come out and not score a run.
 
 JOHNNY OATES: I tell you, I thought Andy threw as well as I've seen him throw in a long
time the other night. We had him on the ropes a couple times, especially one time, and he
was able to make all the pitches he wanted to make and get out of it. When you realize
we've scored almost 950 runs this year, you know you've scored some runs against --
somewhere along the way you scored runs against good pitching. That's the disappointing
thing. We feel we can score runs against anyone. We've pretty well been shut down now two
or three years. 
 
Q. Johnny, can you talk about where Roger Clemens was on your off season wish list and
what you've seen of him pitching in the State of Texas since you have been the manager
here? Does he bring something extra because he lives in Texas?
 
 JOHNNY OATES: Well, he was certainly one of the two premiere starting pitchers that
Doug and I talked at length about, trying to interest in coming here. And I think one day
in New York, we were talking about players with presence. Roger Clemens has a presence
about him when he walks on the field. Not only from a physical standpoint, but just Roger
Clemens. There's a presence about him. 
 
Q. Johnny, do your most experienced postseason players say it's important for this team
to go out and approach tomorrow's game like it's a regular game? I know that's easier said
than done, but have you noticed approaches change when you guys have gotten into the
postseason, as opposed to playing in the regular season?
 
 JOHNNY OATES: Not in New York. That's the only place we have been able to play
postseason. We played like that there all summer. Got to find a way to get somewhere else. 
 
Q. John, given the situation, can you use Wetteland for an extraordinary long time
tomorrow, like two-plus innings or something?
 
 JOHNNY OATES: Well, again, I'm sure John would do anything we asked him to do, and
certainly, the last thing I'm going to do is ask John for 50 pitches when he hasn't thrown
but about 30 all year. And certainly we've got no room for error tomorrow. And I don't
know -- I try to use good common sense. No use to risk hurting him. It just comes down to
common sense; how much do you want him to throw. 
 
Q. Do you take some confidence out of the fact that while Roger has had a good season,
he hasn't had a Roger Clemens-like season?
 
 JOHNNY OATES: I don't know if that makes a difference tomorrow night. It's a different
season. Again, any time Roger takes the mound, there's that possibility of that
outstanding game; so we're going to have to be prepared and be ready. 
 
Q. Johnny, you guys scored five runs in the first inning last time you saw Roger. What
was your game plan and will you use it tomorrow?
 
 JOHNNY OATES: I'm not sure Roger was 100 percent healthy that last time, first of all.
And it was much like the ballgame I saw him pitch in Baltimore a few days ago. He
struggled with his command. We got a couple hits early, a couple baserunners. We're
drawing a fine line between our ballclub on patience and being tentative. I think we've
got to -- we're the type club that does not go to taking pitches too many times. We get
very tentative. That's the fine line we're trying to deal with right now. We chased some
balls the other night out of the zone, counts that hurt us, but we were aggressive to get
those guys on ways to begin with. We didn't get too many guys on that night when we tried
to walk.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT