AL DIVISION SERIES: RANGERS v YANKEES
October 7, 1999
Johny Oates
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Well, John, would you say you have the law of averages with you tonight?

JOHNNY OATES: The game of baseball is a game of percentages. It all evens out in the
end. We better start pretty soon.

Q. Are you concerned if Helling doesn't go deep into the game that you might over work
your bullpen so early in the Division Series?

JOHNNY OATES: If Helling doesn't go deep in the game, we're in trouble anyway.

Q. Any line-up changes tonight?

JOHNNY OATES: Yes. We've made a couple changes. We're going to hit Royce Clayton
leadoff. We're going to move Rusty Greer, who walks a lot, into the two hole and drop
Pudge down into the three hole and have Pudge and Juan hitting back-to-back. McLemore will
be dropped to the ninth place. Palmeiro will DH again and Stevens will play first. Get a
couple guys at the top of the line-up. Hopefully they can get on base in front of Pudge
and Juan.

Q. You were talking the other day about how before you played for the Yankees you hated
coming to New York. Can you talk about why and what changed that when you didn't come
here?

JOHNNY OATES: It's a totally different atmosphere when you're playing for the pin
stripes and when you're trying to play against them. I always came here, my rookie year
with Baltimore, then a lot more so over at Shea and the National League. It's a tough
place to come and play as a visitor. I had the opportunity to come here as a player in
1980 with that ballclub and found out how nice it can be when you're playing for the pin
stripes. It's a very special place to play.

Q. You were talking about percentages. Yesterday Helling said he felt all the pressure
was on the Yankees. Do you subscribe to that theory?

JOHNNY OATES: I feel pressure to win. I feel pressure to win. Certainly I think that
from a national perspective, there's always more pressure on the favorite to win, and I
haven't checked the odds lately, but I would probably guess that the Yankees are favored
in this series. But I think once you get to this situation, there should be pressure on
everybody to win. It's what you work for; it's when you're having fun and you enjoy
playing this, but you certainly -- if it is all on them, they're handling it pretty well.

Q. Given that your a lot of your team had the flu, cross-country trip and everything,
is a day off yesterday good?

JOHNNY OATES: That's the reason we did not work out. I felt we would have had a
skeleton crew out here working like we had. I think travelling from the west coast, a lot
of guys with the flu, I felt it was beneficial to get the day off.

Q. Is the flu as bad as it was earlier in the week?

JOHNNY OATES: I really don't think that the flu has had an effect on the way we've
played. Certainly, I am lucky, I don't have it. I had my flu shot a month ago. Hopefully I
don't get it. I think the worst was in Anaheim when Stevens and Zaun and Shave and a
couple of guys were really under the weather. I'm sure that the number of guys who have
this flu are at 100 percent, but I don't really think that's had an effect on it.

Q. How much of a factor do you think the psychological edge is for the Yankees and what
they've done against your team?

JOHNNY OATES: I think it is a factor. We're professional athletes. Most of us are
trained in physical skills of how to throw the ball, hit the ball, run, some of us -- some
of us less than others, have had some psychological training and know how to deal with
that thing between our ears. Whether we admit it or not, it's affected. I think sometimes
success takes care of a lot of those problems. Until we have success, it's going to be a
question that we have to answer.

Q. In general, how would you describe your relationship with the players, what type of
things work for you, especially if you maybe want to deal with a psychological issue?

JOHNNY OATES: I don't think there is any one answer. Individuals are the teams. As the
manager, you sit back and take a read. Sometimes it says say something, sometimes it says
be quiet. With this ballclub, I have found that being quiet works better, because they are
a veteran ballclub; they know what it takes to get going, and regardless of what happened
here Tuesday night, I think our ballclub is very confident about tonight's game.

Q. So you didn't share any of this with them tonight at all? You didn't address your
team at all today about the psychological issues?

JOHNNY OATES: No, I think they're all aware of it. They know what's at stake.
Basically, what we tell them is it's okay to be nervous, but don't panic.

Q. Can you talk about the positive things that Roberto Kelly will bring to the Texas
line-up tonight?

JOHNNY OATES: Bobby's had two really nice years for us being our fourth outfielder. At
times he has been our number three outfielder and sometimes two. He's done a great job
coming off the bench spot starting. I know at times he struggled against Pettitte, but we
felt getting a right-handed bat in there tonight would be a plus. And he's had a lot of
big hits for us this year. So hopefully tonight it will happen again.

Q. Johnny, a lot's been made about your hitters being too aggressive and the Yankee
pitchers taking advantage of it. Is that true and if there is, is there any way you can
combat that?

JOHNNY OATES: As I shared with our beat writers today, I think it's exactly opposite
Tuesday night. I thought we were too patient. We took seven walks, I try to go back with
the tapes, how many normal swings did our guys take. We became too passive Tuesday night.
Rafael's line drive to first, he swung the bat pretty good. Clayton struck out a couple
times, had real good bat speed. Other than that, going back looking at tapes, we didn't
have a whole lot of bat speed in our swings. We were too passive, too patient, I'm afraid
if I swing at this pitch it's going to be out of the strike zone. Certainly we don't want
our guys chasing pitches in the dirt and swinging at pitches over their head. We don't
have to take pitches two inches off the plate waiting to hit that pitch. We can hit that
pitch. I'd like to see controlled aggressiveness tonight. Not just swing at anything they
throw up there. A lot of those pitches two or three inches off the plate are going to be
called strikes anyway.

Q. You were talking about the psychological effect. Do you have any regrets about some
of the things that were said before the Series and predictions that you guys would win?

JOHNNY OATES: I don't have any regrets for anything that I said. Everyone has to be
held accountable for their own actions and what they say. Basically what I would say is
that any's allowed their feelings and allowed to say anything they want to. But I think
the key thing is not so much what you're going to do, what have you done. That's the key.
We can all talk and say what we're going to do, but in the end, we're going to be judged
on what we have done, not what we're going to do.

Q. You said you wanted to see the hitters have aggressive swings. Have you told them
that one-by-one or through the hitting coach?

JOHNNY OATES: We sat down this afternoon and Rudy Jaramillo was in agreement with me
when I brought it to the attention that there's a fine line between being selective and
controlled aggressiveness. And hopefully we can get that point across tonight and maybe
take some of the burden off of them that so much has been made of the Yankees' patience,
and we threw 175, 176 pitches night before last in eight innings. That averages out to
something like 22 pitches an inning. Maybe we're a tight ballclub that can make a pitching
staff throw 22 pitches an inning and get the job done. I'd like for us to play our game
and not try and play the Yankees' game.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT