AL DIVISION SERIES: RANGERS v YANKEES
October 5, 1999
Johny Oates
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Can you talk about the cold weather and the effect it has on your decision-making
and playing Palmeiro, and also on how far you might let Sele go.
 
 JOHNNY OATES: I think the first thing is both teams play in the same weather. And I
think that we've talked to pitchers and Aaron Sele is also a feel-type pitcher and
pitchers who are not power pitchers and feel it becomes a bigger factor than someone who
just stands out and throws hard. We'll just see how Aaron goes. Certainly the weather will
have an impact on that. It has had an impact on Rafael. When he got up this morning, his
knee was arthritic, it was giving him trouble. That's the reason he's the DH tonight. How
long will Aaron go? As long as he's getting people out. 
 
Q. Have you taken any different approach this time with the Yankees than you have
previously?
 
 JOHNNY OATES: Well, as we said yesterday, I think there's a perception that we need to
pitch better. If you look at the numbers, what we need to do is hit better. We're going to
try to work the count a little bit, maybe to be a little bit patient, maybe swing at our
pitch, maybe not swing at their pitches, earning the count. Really, we haven't had much
less offense, we haven't had a whole lot of scoring opportunities. We need to have more
base runners, that's one of our strengths, our offense. And one run every ball game is not
going to get it done. We have to score more runs but generate more opportunity to score
those runs. 
 
Q. Can you describe Ivan Rodriguez's impact on all the different parts of the game?
 
 JOHNNY OATES: I think that you look at Pudge every day that we have the opportunity to.
I think from a national standpoint, you certainly get to see his offensive numbers, but
you don't get to see everything he does for a ballclub. You sit in the dugout and watch
other teams and how they react. They may take one less footstep lead at first base and not
be able to go to third on a base hit. Maybe the same shorter lead at second because he's
picked off three or four guys on second and you're not able to score on a base hit, the
number of runners he's picked off. I may be mistaken, I know we've had two passed balls
all year. I'm not sure if either one is his. If so, maybe one of them. You realize the
number of innings he's caught, and to have only at most one passed ball all year is
concentration. The things he does for us defensively, I don't think there's anyone in
baseball right now that can match that. And his offensive numbers will speak for
themselves. 199 hits, 100-plus runs, 100-plus RBIs, most homeruns in American League ever
by a catcher. It's just been a phenomenal year for Pudge. 
 
Q. Johnny, what were your initial expectations coming in to the season for Rafael and
what would you say about the year he's had, the impact of it?
 
 JOHNNY OATES: I think the first thing, we would have expected Rafael to play more first
base. But because of the couple of knee surgeries he has had, he's had to start only a few
games at first base, but none of the other things that he has done has really been a
surprise. You look at Rafael, he may be one of the best kept secrets in all of baseball in
the fact that maybe the '90s was not the year -- or not the decade to be a first baseman
in the early part of the decade you had Frank Thomas in American League, and then Mo
Vaughn came on the scene. But you look at what Rafael has done in the '90s, number of
games played, the average homeruns per year, the RBIs per year, pretty consistent with
what he did this year. The only thing is that he jumped his batting average and on-base
percentage up from what he normally does. Part of that had to do with the line-up he was
hitting in. He had a lot of people on base in front of him and a lot of protection behind
him. He has had an unbelievable offensive year for us, a nice addition to our ballclub. 
 
Q. Johnny, could you talk about the impact having Wetteland the last couple years as
your closer?
 
 JOHNNY OATES: Premiere person and premiere baseball player. We talk a lot about the
opportunity that we have as opposed to the obstacles in front of us, and we let John share
with us what it's like to be on the other side of that obstacle. He's one of the few
players in our clubhouse that has been able to enjoy that final victory. He's one of the
premiere closers in the game, not only this year, with his 43 saves, but what he has done
in his career. I believe he's four short of 300 total. And John is a unique individual in
the fact that not only is he a good leader on our ballclub, especially in the bullpen,
he's one of those guys that expects no special treatment. If I wanted him to pitch in a
blowout game, he's well-prepared for that. If I wanted him to pitch four days in a row,
he's well-prepared for that. If I wanted him to pitch two winnings in one night, he's
well-prepared for that. That is the only thing a manager can ask of a closer.  
 
Q. Have you considered the possibilities of an all-Texas series?
 
 JOHN OATES: Honestly, I wouldn't mind an all-Texas series. That would guarantee that we
were there. Honestly, what I thought of more than an all-Texas series has been a New York
-- it would have to be the Mets, Rangers series. Because maybe Spurs, Knicks, stars,
Sabres, maybe we can make it three. 
 
Q. Johnny, obviously you have your hands full here with the Yankees. But with the short
series here, is there any sense of relief that your club isn't facing Pedro Martinez?
 
 JOHN OATES: No. I tell you, this ballclub in the other dugout, they've got an
outstanding ballclub and they've matched up very, very well, to say the least, against us
in the last couple years. To say that we don't have our hands full here, like we would if
we'd be facing Pedro, would be a false statement. We know that we've got our hands full
and more over the next couple of nights. We'll just see how things work out. 
 
Q. Johnny, Joe Torre talks about Darryl Strawberry's presence and how he scares the
opposing manager. Can you speak about that?
 
 JOHN OATES: I won't speak specifically for Darryl, but in general, there are -- people
who know me, I use that term a lot. There is something to be said for a presence. Whether
he's on your team, whether he's on someone else's team. You always know your player's
better than someone else, but I think there's a great deal to be said for presence. When I
played with the Yankees, Reggie Jackson had a presence. Regardless of what inning he came
to at bat, there was a presence. Pete Rose, there was a presence when he walked on the
field. Some of the guys I played with, Steve Carlton, when he went to the mound, there was
a presence about him that you knew he was going to get the job done. And evidently, from
what Joe has said, when he sends Darryl into a ball game, he has that presence that his
teammates know that he's going to come through and do something good for them. 
 
Q. You were with the Yankees in '80 when they finally lost to the Royals. Do you see a
lot of parallels with what you guys are trying to accomplish?
 
 JOHN OATES: Just so you'll know, the reason my fist is closed is so I do not answer the
question before it's asked a second time because I have a tough time doing that, and it
failed. I've never really given a lot of thought to see if there's a parallel there. But I
think it happens in sports that you go through cycles, particularly ours, a couple years
ago it was Seattle. We couldn't do anything right against Seattle. And right now for us
it's the New York Yankees. Here we are three or four years in the playoffs, and in the
same situation. And since the fifth inning of Game 1, we haven't done very much. And I'm a
firm believer that the world does turn. Why? I don't know. When, I don't know. And I'm
just hopeful that it's this year. 
 
Q. Obviously everyone is trying to get new ballparks. You guys have a great one out by
you. What's your take on playing in this place?
 
 JOHN OATES: As a visitor early in my career, I disliked coming to New York very, very
much. In fact, so much I said that that is one place I would never play. '80 and '81 I was
fortunate enough to be a member of the New York Yankees and I would not trade those almost
two full years for anything. It's a very, very special place, a special city to play in as
a home player, a very tough place to play as a visiting player. I was just talking
yesterday, some almost 27 years ago I took my first at-bat in this place as a rookie with
the Orioles standing at home plate in Yankee Stadium. You know, Detroit, scored right
away, people asked me about it. No big deal. They're talking about Fenway, I don't know.
To me, it doesn't seem like a big deal. Yankee Stadium, that's a big deal. Yankee Stadium
is -- I don't know -- maybe it's the first, as a young kid, it was the only ballpark I
knew anything about. And, a lot of very special people played baseball here. 
 
Q. How does not having Munoz change your late-inning strategy?
 
 JOHN OATES: I think from a point that Mike had such an outstanding year for us, he got
a lot of important outs in the sixth and seventh inning for us, what we'll have now is
Jeff Fassero will be the second left-hander in the bullpen. I'm looking at it that from a
lone-reliever standpoint, I have a left-hander now who can go long, whereas before I had
two left-handers who had to go short and match up. I'm hoping that by having Jeff out
there that even though we don't have a left-handed starter, we have that guy that can come
in, should we have to have somebody, and maybe pitch two or three innings for us which we
did not have before. Then turn it over to our three right-handers, Crabtree, Zimmerman,
and Wetteland, who have done very well against left-handers this year. 
 
Q. You talked before about Palmeiro's effect on the line-up. Can you talk about the
leadership aspect, what he's brought to the team?
 
 JOHN OATES: I think first of all, is there's all kinds of definitions of leadership.
Mine is to be a leader, you have to have followers. There's a lot of leaders out there
that only have two followers. In our clubhouse, Rafael Palmeiro has all players following
him. We have a very bilingual ballclub. He can speak to everyone in there. And I think
what he has done very quietly this year has become a very quiet leader because people in
there do follow him. And you like to have a guy like that, who wants to play every day, be
in the action every day, puts up good numbers. And the old statement, "You can talk
the talk, you can walk the walk, but your walk talks louder than your talk talks." 
 
Q. One more thing on Rafael. How much pain did he put up with during the season?
 
 JOHN OATES: I think that would be a question better suited to ask Rafael, because he
and I visited often about his knee, about playing a little bit of first base here and
there. We certainly wanted to make sure when we went to the National League parks he was
able to play first base. The best way I can answer that question is any time you play as
many games as he has, the last ten years in the '90s, if you're not really involved in
baseball and you ask, you know, how many games comparing he and Cal Ripken, who played the
most games in the '90s, you might miss that question. And to play that many games, you
have to have a high-pain threshold and love to play the game of baseball. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT