AL DIVISION SERIES: RANGERS v YANKEES
October 5, 1999
Johny Oates
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. John, you told us before the game that Yankee Stadium is a tough place to play in,
can you elaborate?

JOHNNY OATES: Can't be that tough. We can by luck, just pure luck, do more offensive
than we've done here lately. I don't care, Yankee Stadium, Yellowstone Park, it doesn't
matter, we can score more runs in this by accident. Take nothing from El Duque, he threw
well. But with our offense, our ballclub, to me it's mind boggling.

Q. Gonzalez looked very tight up there, very unrelaxed. He was chasing pitches. Was it
Gonzalez or Hernandez?

JOHNNY OATES: Well, he hit -- the second at-bat he hit the ball well. Bernie made a
nice play on that. The other two at-bats off of El Duque, pitched him pretty much the same
way he's always pitched him, and, you know, it's just wanting to lay off that side on a
breaking ball. And Nelson's always given him trouble. Never had a whole lot of success
against Nelson. That was his best tonight. I think El Duque tonight made a lot of people
look uncomfortable, not only Juan but a lot of guys were uncomfortable up there tonight.

Q. You talked about being patient and when you had chances to get guys in scoring
position to do with it, did you think in the few opportunities that you had with guys in
scoring position that your guys became a little bit impatient tonight?

JOHNNY OATES: Well, really we only had a couple of chances. First inning, you got two
of the first three guys on and of course Juan expanded the strike zone a little bit and
struck out. You know, Rafael showed patience there. He worked it to 3-0, had the 3-0
swing, got a cutter he didn't feel comfortable swinging at. And he didn't throw -- I don't
think he threw a ball to Zeile. A swing simulator. I don't think there was any impatience
in the first inning. Maybe swinging at strike one and strike three out of the strike zone.
But other than that, I thought all the guys showed great patience in the second inning,
there wasn't much to it. Got a couple runners on it, base hit and a walk again, Bernie
made a nice play in the second inning. I really don't think that impatience kept us from
scoring early. He made some good pitches, and, again, other than Juan batting in the first
inning, that was the only chance.

Q. You relied on your bullpen a lot all year and your starters were faltering, when you
brought them in when you went to the bullpen in the sixth inning, they weren't much help,
can you win if your bullpen can't pick up the starters like that?

JOHNNY OATES: Our pitching did a great job tonight. As far as I'm concerned we gave two
extra outs on the first one. We didn't turn a double play that has to be turned on Darryl.
You have to catch the ground ball in this league. That's as far as I'm concerned, for
unearned runs. One pitch, Bernie, 1-2; we made two real good pitches Bernie lays off of.
Both could have been strikes. 3-2, ball over our head. They were just finishing -- that
ball game could have easily been nothing-nothing if we caught the ground balls and made
the pitches. I have no complaints with the way we threw the ball tonight.

Q. Emotionally, how big of a sequence was that first inning, two out, one out, three
on?

JOHNNY OATES: I know it was key. Any time we talked so much about -- in today's game --
getting on the board first, especially playoff type series and giving our pitchers a
chance and knowing the troubles that we've had scoring runs in playoffs against this club,
that was key for us, to get guys on in the first inning, Pudge just missed hitting one
out, Rusty works the walk. We got the guys coming up that had some success against El
Duque. That was certainly -- the first inning was big for us, not being able to put at
least a couple runs on the board.

Q. Was the -- Bernie's catch, though, was that the turning point, do you think, of the
game?

JOHNNY OATES: I don't know if there was one turning point tonight. Certainly you would
have to -- if you picked Bernie, somewhere along the way you could pick him tonight with
the two-run double, the three-run home run, the catch, certainly he made a difference out
there tonight. But I don't know if that -- certainly if Juan's ball falls in, it becomes
different. But I don't know, tonight was one of those games. I don't know if there was one
particular instant. If it was, from my standpoint it would have been the first inning when
we didn't put any runs on the board.

Q. Can you talk about your three, four, five hitters who struggled against El Duque?

JOHNNY OATES: I don't think he was pitching around one. I think in the first inning he
knew who he wanted to pitch to. I've seen him do it before. I think he felt that even with
Juan coming up behind Rusty with base open, he wasn't going to give Rusty anything to get
that first run on the board. He walks Rusty and strikes Juan out. Again, we were letting
Rafael hit 3 and 0. It wasn't a pitch he liked. He walked Rafael, then went after Zeile
and struck him out. I think he knew who he wanted to pitch to in that first inning and
when he had that first base he was going to use that for Rusty. That shows a lot of
knowing how to pitch, that you walk the bases loaded to get to another hitter that you
want to pitch to. A great deal of confidence in your own abilities.

Q. You say that it could have been a nothing-nothing game. You got good pitching and
you lose 8-0. What do you tell a team, if anything, what do you tell yourself?

JOHNNY OATES: Well, I tell you, nothing that we haven't already said. You know, we talk
the talk a lot. It's now time to walk the walk. I said something like that before the ball
game. We can talk about it all we want. Until we start getting some base hits, it's going
to be tough for us to win. Like I said before, with the offense we throw out there,
regardless of who's pitching, you're going to bump into a run once in a while by accident.
We had our chances early tonight. And when those fizzled, it just seemed like we really
never got anything going late in the ball game.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT