U.S. SENIOR WOMEN'S AMATEUR
August 28, 2019
Lara Tenant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  First of all, it's a long day obviously, and challenging one because the wind didn't let up much at all, did it?  
LARA TENANT: The wind was really difficult today. It was swirling, so it was even difficult to predict which direction it was going so club selection was tough.   
 Q.  Yeah.  
LARA TENANT: But I think we did a pretty good job of it.   
 Q.  Did you fell like with your swing much of the day that you could trust what you were going to do, and even if the wind was a variable that you had things under control?  
LARA TENANT: Yeah, I felt like I had things pretty much under control. I had a lot of confidence in my short game. Even if I missed a green, if I put it in the right place I felt like there was a good chance I could get it up and down.   
 Q.  Seems like you slowly, gradually took control in both matches not too far in.  
LARA TENANT: Right.   
 Q.  So if you're playing with a lead that helps anytime, right?  
LARA TENANT: Yes, it always helps, but you always want to kind of keep the pedal on the gas even with a lead.   
I think birdieing the first two out of three holes, that really helped a lot. And then making a par on No. 10 I think was critical because I made a really long par putt.   
 Q.  How far was it?  
LARA TENANT: It was probably like 20, 25 feet. I was in the fairway bunker and I went in the front bunker and hit an okay bunker shot, but it was just a really tough one.   
Then I made a downhill 25-footer.   
 Q.  And that put you back to 3-up, right?  
LARA TENANT: Yes, yes, because Patty three-putted that hole. It was one of those where it looks like she might win the hole but I actually won, so I felt pretty fortunate.   
 Q.  Almost feel like a gift.  
LARA TENANT: Yes.   
 Q.  Double win sometimes.  
LARA TENANT: That's right. That's right. You need a few of those once in a while.   
 Q.  So in the morning match, again, an early lead. Was there any particular key to that match as far as taking control?  
LARA TENANT: I think in that match it was just a matter of just continuing to get pars and play smart, just putting the pressure on Lynn as much as I could.   
 Q.  Have you played against both women in the past?  
LARA TENANT: I have. Well, I've played -- I don't think I've ever played with Lynn. I was in a playoff in the California State Am with her and she beat me on the 1st hole with a birdie, but that's the only -- I've played one hole with her.   
 Q.  And that was a stroke play event.  
LARA TENANT: That was a stroke play event. And then I've never played with Patty. Both are fabulous golfers, really tough competitors.   
 Q.  You've won now 11 matches in a row over two years I guess we could say.  
LARA TENANT: Oh, I never even thought about that. I'm sorry.   
 Q.  That's okay. You know, you and your dad have got a pretty good -- and I'm not meaning to jinx you -- but things have been pretty good for a couple years. You have a good system down.  
LARA TENANT: We have a good system.   
 Q.  You just kind of been blinders on not thinking about anything?  
LARA TENANT: Yes. I really only try to think about the next shot. I don't think about winning or losing or how many up I am or how many down I am.   
I really try to stay in the moment.   
 Q.  Not even the next hole?  
LARA TENANT: No, no. Honestly, no. And I think that's what has helped me. Staying in the moment doesn't get you too far ahead of yourself.   
 Q.  How about preparation for this? What did you do to get ready for your title defense? Anything in particular golf-wise?  
LARA TENANT: Well, I always focus on my short game. That's usually the critical piece, so I practice that a lot. But I just took my daughter to move into Boston College, and another one is moving in a couple weeks. The twins, our babies. And so I've practiced, but there is a lot of other things going on.   
When I'm practicing I'm really trying to focus. I think that always helps. Sometimes less is better if it's quality.   
 Q.  For sure. For sure.  
LARA TENANT: But I've practiced a lot, you know.   
 Q.  That's good. Where is your other twin going?  
LARA TENANT: Cal/Poly San Luis Obispo. That starts during te Mid-Am, so I'm not going to play in the Mid-Am because I have to -- I don't have to. I get to move her in.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT