BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 14, 2017
Donald Young
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








D. YOUNG/L. Pouille
6-4, 1-6, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Talk about that win and what that means for you.
DONALD YOUNG: Yeah, definitely.  It's exciting, you know, to come through and be playing consistent, you know, at least for the start of the year and just to beat, you know, back-to-back quality opponents, too.
And then, at the end, to fight through quite a bit of nerves, that's always great as well.  You've got to keep putting yourself in those positions and, when you come through them, it gives you even more confidence.
Q. We've seen you through ups and downs in you're career.  Do you live for these type of days and wins?  Do you just live for this?
DONALD YOUNG: Yeah, definitely.  It's what you work hard and compete for.  It's my job.  Like, I was talking to a friend and we were talking about what else better do I have to do right now than to get better at tennis and play and enjoy it.
It's not going to be here forever.  So I'm going to try to get the most out of it.
Q. When was the last time that you felt that you were playing as consistently as you just did.
DONALD YOUNG: 2011, actually, I felt quite good.  I felt like I was playing the best tennis every.
But now I'm just winning some tough matches.  I've won three or four matches where the other guys won more points than me total in the matches.  So I'm just happy I'm playing the bigger points well.
Q. I looked at the match statistics and you lost in almost everything except break points, I think it was.
DONALD YOUNG: Again, I don't know.  But, again, I'm happy to get the W.  That's what matters at the end of the day.  And really going to the next round and feeling good about yourself and the progression you're making.
Q. You mentioned nerves at the end.  Are you talking about you were up 5-Love in the second set and then you were like --
DONALD YOUNG: Yeah.  The 5-0 game at 15-40 he served a couple good shots, and then I served and I was up and then I was -- yeah.  It kind of all happened together.  And then, at 5-3, it was kind of starting again.
But, again, I was able to keep putting myself in positions to be up and have those break points or match points and for the situation.  So at some point they're going to fall, and one did and that's all I needed.
Q. What are your thoughts on Nishikori now?
DONALD YOUNG: Yeah,  Kei, you know he's a great player.  He's been playing well for a very long time.  We grew up together.  So, yeah, hopefully I can go out there and play well, and just keep doing the right things and putting myself in the right position and playing the way I want to play and see what happens.
You know, I want to go out there and win.  Every time you go out there you want to get the W, and that's the goal and what I'm going to try to do.
Q. I imagine that all the talk around Taylor and Tiafoe and all those guys might be somewhat refreshing to you in a way just to sort of steer a little bit of the focus and let you do your thing.
DONALD YOUNG: Definitely.  I wish I had that when I was coming up.  It was kind of focused on me.  And then you had Sam and then you had some other guys?
But we were talking about it, me and Sam were actually playing doubles in Memphis, and we were speaking about how they're actually getting to tour events and playing each other, which is awesome.  What we would have paid or done to be able to get to in and play a peer to get your first wins and get your feet wet.
So for them it's a great group of guys.  They're all really friendly and it's just a different generation, those guys.  They talk trash.  They say anything.  You can say anything and get away with it with a smile.  That's what they do.
I like them all.  It's great for them and they're pushing us and we're kind of just want to stay ahead and keep them down as long as possible.  Because they're going to come up at some point because they're that good.
Q. How much do the expectations affect you?  I know everybody, as you went along, that you were supposed to be the next great thing for America.  Mentally, did that bring you down a little bit?
DONALD YOUNG: Yeah.  I mean, if you go back and look at some pictures of me at 15, I looked 15.  Me at 18, I looked 18.  Like some of these guys have, you know, man bodies.  They're 6'4, 6'5, 6'6.  You know, I was smaller than I am now.  It's not like I'm huge.
But definitely, you know, there was no way at 15, 16 I was going to beat a grown man like me.  Just off general principle and being a guy, I'm not going to let someone 15, 16 beat me.  I'm going to try as hard as I can.  That's kind of what happened.
But, you know, those opportunities came because I was No. 1 in the world at 15, and then that's kind of, Where else do you go?  But, you know, it happened.  It was because I was doing so well at that level.  They figured why wouldn't I excel at the faster pace at the pros as well.
But, again.  Everyone does it at their own time.  Would I have liked it to be earlier?  For sure.  But I'm pretty content now with what's going on and me moving forward.
Q. You kind of grew up with Kei and you played doubles together.  What is your oldest memory you shared with Kei?
DONALD YOUNG: Yeah, like, honestly, you know, when I was younger, we played in the finals of Junior Davis Cup, actually.  USA beat Japan.  I didn't get to play him, but we played him in doubles and clinched it.  And then we played doubles to get my first future titles.  We won.  Then I won my first futures title when I beat him in the final.  So that's going from 13, you know, to now.  So he's got the better of me in pros.
But it's great to see faces and guys your age.  There's not many guys born in '89 that are playing at this level right now.  So it's pretty nice.
Q. In retrospect, would you now change the early stages of your career?
DONALD YOUNG: Yeah, 100 percent.  But, you know, hindsight is 20/20 for everyone.  But, yeah, at the time it seemed right.  Now, knowing it 11, 12 years later whatever the situation is, it might be different.  But I would be the take back how good I was then, but I would just take back maybe a few decisions here and there.
But you can't blame or fault anyone because it was the first time for everybody.  So it happened.  It was done.  And hopefully I kind of set a map for people of what to and not to do.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT