U.S. OPEN
September 1, 2007
Donald Young
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  How would you assess your match? 
 DONALD YOUNG:  Pretty good overall.  Obviously he's a great player.  I had chances.  But I would say it's a big step forward for me, I would say. 

 Q.  Even in the first set you were in it all the way along.  What was the difference? 
 DONALD YOUNG:  I mean, he served well.  I thought he served amazing.  I had a couple opportunities and missed 'em.  Was a little tentative. 
 But all credit to him.  I feel he played really well, yeah. 

 Q.  In tighter points, you've been incredibly confident last couple weeks. 
 DONALD YOUNG:  Tight points?  Yeah, the tiebreak, that overhead, I felt I was up for that one.  I don't know what happened.  I don't know how it hit the frame, but it did.  That's how it goes. 
 And then the double-fault, I think it was 5-All, yeah, I don't know.  That missed by a lot also. 

 Q.  What was it like getting to the third round here? 
 DONALD YOUNG:  It was awesome to me.  Any way you can take it, I'll take it.  Third round of the US Open, a tournament I've watched since I was like little and always wanted to play in.  To win matches and rounds in this tournament is awesome. 

 Q.  What is it like playing on Armstrong? 
 DONALD YOUNG:  It was awesome.  The crowd was amazing.  They were really all for me.  It helped me out.  It was definitely a great experience. 

 Q.  What was the furthest you ever got in a Grand Slam tournament? 
 DONALD YOUNG:  First round.  This is the furthest I've ever got.  So third round here is by far the furthest I've ever gotten. 

 Q.  There were times when things started to go not your way and you looked pretty frustrated.  Have you ever wondered whether that gives a guy a little encouragement or signal that, Well, I've got this kid where I want him now? 
 DONALD YOUNG:  Yeah, definitely it's obviously something you work on not trying to do.  You're human.  You get upset and have emotions and get upset also.  You try to work on that and not show your opponent, but it's hard to be out there fighting that hard and giving it your all and not get upset about it. 

 Q.  Is that a sign of lack of confidence? 
 DONALD YOUNG:  No.  I mean, I'm feeling confident right now.  Best I've ever felt.  So I felt like I was in the match.  A couple different points, the match could have changed the other way. 

 Q.  Is it maybe a lack of experience?  As you move forward, you get better at it? 
 DONALD YOUNG:  Definitely.  He's been out there a lot longer than I have.  Yeah, you could say that.  Yeah, I would agree with that. 

 Q.  Having been to this spot, what do you think you learned in this short week, and what do you think going forward it will help you achieve? 
 DONALD YOUNG:  Well, I learned I can compete with the guys when I play well.  When you're not playing well, you're not able to really compete with them. 
 I mean, I think that goes for everybody, though. 

 Q.  What part of your game do you have to work on to reach the next step? 
 DONALD YOUNG:  All of it.  I wouldn't say one particular thing.  The whole game.  Just have to keep getting better. 

 Q.  Are you staying here?  In the city? 
 DONALD YOUNG:  Yeah, we're staying at the Affinia 50 hotel. 

 Q.  When you're walking around town, do people recognize you? 
 DONALD YOUNG:  Last night I walked by myself and a couple people, yeah, they did.  A driver, I don't know, a limousine, he got out the car and asked me.  A couple people just walking down the street, yeah. 

 Q.  Did you have like a Nike cap on or racquet? 
 DONALD YOUNG:  I always have my cap.  It was a Nike cap, so I guess that helped a lot. 

 Q.  Has anyone asked you about hitting the ball out of the stadium? 
 DONALD YOUNG:  No, no one has. 

 Q.  Seems like you were holding it in the rest of the match, especially when you were tapping your foot. 
 DONALD YOUNG:  With the racquet? 

 Q.  Yes. 
 DONALD YOUNG:  You shouldn't be doing that.  It's something I shouldn't do.  I was upset and frustrated.  Just wanted to let it out. 

 Q.  Did you have family out here today for this match? 
 DONALD YOUNG:  Family?  Yeah, mom, dad, definitely. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT