U.S. OPEN
August 30, 2007
Donald Young
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions.   
  
  Q.  Pretty nice to get into the third round?   
 DONALD YOUNG:  Yeah.  Prefer to win it, but I'll take this.   
  
  Q.  Were you surprised when you heard the news?   
 DONALD YOUNG:  Yeah, I was.  I was really surprised because I saw him in the locker room.  A couple people saw him hitting today.  I saw him hitting yesterday and the day before.  I thought he was okay.   
  
  Q.  Do you ever wonder whether that's a good decision?  US Open, last Slam of the year.  He's playing a young, inexperienced guy.  Surprised he would pull out under the circumstances?   
 DONALD YOUNG:  Yeah, I don't know how he was feeling.  I wouldn't know.  I don't know if he couldn't move or whatever.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about where you find yourself right now?  A couple weeks ago you had never won on the ATP Tour.  All of a sudden you win a match, you almost beat Davydenko, you're in the third round of the US Open.  Is it registering?   
 DONALD YOUNG:  Not really, no.  Just kind of going day to day, taking it one step at a time.  Yeah, I've only won really -- really won two matches.  But it's a lot different than being 11-0, definitely.   
  
  Q.  How does it feel?  Are you excited?   
 DONALD YOUNG:  I mean, yeah.  I'm excited to be in the third round.  You would like to play the match, see how it would go.  Yeah, I'm definitely excited to be in the third round.   
  
  Q.  When you went out to play your last match, did you go out as a different player?   
 DONALD YOUNG:  Yeah, I felt like I had a chance.  He wasn't like top 10 or top 20.  They're all good.  He's a great player.  I feel I had a little chance.  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  Will you go into some detail about how David is assisting with your game, what he's doing for you?   
 DONALD YOUNG:  I mean, David, he's been great.  He works together with my parents.  They'll bounce ideas off.  He'll see some things.  They kind of work, it's like a team effort.  It's not like him doing anything really special.   
  
  Q.  For example, some of the things that he's seen that maybe have helped you.   
 DONALD YOUNG:  He's been out there, played on tour, so he know as lot of guys.  He kind of knows how the situation will go in a five-setter.  He's played some himself.  Probably more the situation.   
  
  Q.  How much do you weigh right now?   
 DONALD YOUNG:  I would say 160.  I want to say 160, yeah.   
  
  Q.  Some of the people who saw your earlier matches said you appear to be hitting with a little more power, more weight on that lefty serve.  Is that accurate?   
 DONALD YOUNG:  We worked on that.  You have to be able to hit some big shots when the time comes.  You have to be consistent.  But when you get the shot you have to be able to put it away.  Can't put it to the side because good players will get to it, put it away.   
  
  Q.  When Davydenko said in New Haven that he feared you on both sides unlike any other American, what did you think of that statement?   
 DONALD YOUNG:  I don't know about that.  But I'm happy someone at that level could say something like that.  It's a big compliment to me.  I was really happy he could say something like that about me.   
  
  Q.  If you could replay the end of the Davydenko match, that short angle cross-court passing shot he hit, did that shake you a little bit?  Would you replay that in a different way if you had a chance?   
 DONALD YOUNG:  I still got to 30-15.  Maybe the backhand I would have hit out a little more, the one that hit the net and kind of rolled.  That's just luck, hit the net.  Whatever happens happens.   
 I would play it the same.  It was a great match and I had opportunities.   
  
  Q.  Technically compared to last year at this time, how is your game different specifically?  What are you doing better?   
 DONALD YOUNG:  Serving better.  I think competing a little better.  Not giving up early.  When you lose the first set, it's not over, you have to win three out of five.  Being more consistent, winning some matches.  Confidence, it helps out a lot.   
  
  Q.  Have guys come up to you in the locker room to congratulate you once you get that first win and in New Haven?  Did guys come up and say, congratulations, well done, it's about time?   
 DONALD YOUNG:  Definitely all the Americans did, all of them.  Mardy, James, Andy, Gimelstob.  All the Americans did, definitely.   
  
  Q.  Are you inclined to come down to Boca after the USTA moves in there and train with the other juniors?   
 DONALD YOUNG:  I mean, every once in a while.  I live in Atlanta.  It's pretty close.  I train there.  But if something special goes on in Boca, usually, at the end of the year, maybe so.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT