US OPEN
August 29, 2005
Donald Young
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  What's the difference between youth tennis and professional tennis? 
 
DONALD YOUNG:  Same -- I don't know.  Like, when I get up, or, like, I had two set points that usually flowed or didn't step it up, he stepped it up.  Served and volleyed on two points.  He volleyed better, so...  
 
Q.  How tough was the loss in the first set, particularly in the tiebreaker?
 
DONALD YOUNG:  It was upsetting.  It was very upsetting.  Now, as I look on it, it was really fun.  But at the time it wasn't.  
 
Q.  Did it affect your following sets?
 
DONALD YOUNG:  No.  I think I was more tired than being upset.  
 
Q.  You called for the trainer.  What was wrong?
 
DONALD YOUNG:  I didn't call the trainer.  I went to the bathroom.  
 
Q.  When you get over the disappointment of the match, what do you think you're going to be able to take out of this?  What do you think will be the positives you're going to be able to take out of the match?
 
DONALD YOUNG:  I'm getting obviously better or closer every time, getting closer in games or whatever.  I don't know.  
 
Q.  Is it strange that you win everything in the junior and you can't win a match in the pros?
 
DONALD YOUNG:  No.  I was 15 when I played my first.  I'm only 16 now.  Everybody in Juniors is 15, 16, 17 - 18 max.  
 
Q.  What did you know about him coming into the match?  Had you ever seen him play? 
 
DONALD YOUNG:  No, I didn't know nothing at all.  
 
Q.  What was your game plan coming in?  What did you want to try to accomplish?
 
DONALD YOUNG:  Keep a lot of balls in play, come in when I get the short ball.  That's about it.  
 
Q.  Have any of the veteran players, the American guys, taken you under their wing at all?
 
DONALD YOUNG:  No.  
 
Q.  Given you any advice?
 
DONALD YOUNG:  No.  
 
Q.  Do you seek them out ever?
 
DONALD YOUNG:  No. 
 
Q.  Not really?
 
DONALD YOUNG:  No. 
 
Q.  You've got your own crew, all the advice you need?
 
DONALD YOUNG:  Yeah, I guess.  I mean, they're always doing their own thing, I'm doing my own, so I don't know.  
 
Q.  Did you feel you were out-powered today?  What happened today? 
 
DONALD YOUNG:  No, I mean, I thought he played well, and then I got tired.  Well, it got physical obviously because he's, you know, I mean, 29, I'm 16.  That's a big difference.  So, yeah.  
 
Q.  When people look at you and say you're the future of American tennis, how comfortable are you with that idea, people are looking at you as the best player of the next generation?
 
DONALD YOUNG:  I'd like the people to think that.  Hopefully I can get better and that can actually be real.  I like the statement, though.  
 
Q.  How many hours do you spend every day on tennis? 
 
DONALD YOUNG:  Hitting?  Maybe two, two and a half, at most three.  
 
Q.  Do you feel you miss hanging out with the other friends your age, going to the mall and all that?
 
DONALD YOUNG:  Sometimes.  But things I do, they wish they could do.  So it's kind of -- I don't know.  All the things I do, they wish they could do.  The things they get to do, I wish I could do.  So I guess even, I don't know.  
 
Q.  On the circuit the results have been kind of tough this year.  Do you have any regrets about your approach playing so many circuit events, taking so many wildcards?
 
DONALD YOUNG:  No, not really because I know every other junior, when they were offered the same thing, I think they would do it.  So, no. 
 
Q.  How do you think the results have affected you?
 
DONALD YOUNG:  Not too -- at first it was really bad, but I got over it.  Not too bad because I just won a junior tournament like, what, two, three weeks ago, big tournament.  So I don't think it's bothering me too much.  
 
Q.  When you're training, what is your number one priority?  What aspect of your game would you like to improve?
 
DONALD YOUNG:  Today, serve.  Other than that, more mental.  
 
Q.  How important was it to you to win Kalamazoo?
 
DONALD YOUNG:  That was very important.  That's been my goal ever since, I don't know, I heard about Kalamazoo.  They said there was a lot of pressure, a big tournament, you get the wildcard to the US Open.  So that was a big reason why I was really happy about winning.  
 
Q.  When the agents start getting involved, you have Nike, Head, everybody talking about you, is the game when you're on the court as much fun as it's always been when you were more in your amateur games?
 
DONALD YOUNG:  It's more fun.  I mean, I have more people watching the match, more people clapping for me.  Like today was extremely fun.  I had a lot of fun.  
 
Q.  What was the most exciting moment in your career so far?
 
DONALD YOUNG:  Winning Australian Open Juniors, winning Kalamazoo.  They're kind of close.  
 
Q.  You miss Chicago at all?
 
DONALD YOUNG:  No (smiling).  
 
Q.  Why not?
 
DONALD YOUNG:  I don't know.  Here in Atlanta, I can play outside nearly 10, 11 months a year.  Chicago, I can play outside maybe for two and a half, three.  That's a big difference.  
 
Q.  When do you feel you need to win a match on the circuit?
 
DONALD YOUNG:  Never happens.  I have no date or time.  Just hopefully I can win one.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT