BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 15, 2015
Donald Young
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 D. YOUNG/J. Chardy
  6‑4, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You looked really good.   Anything different this year?  
DONALD YOUNG:   Yeah, a lot's different.   I just feel like the main thing is I'm doing it a little more consistent, playing good match after another one, battling through tough situations, and not letting them be too much and take me out of my rhythm.   
   
 Q.   This was a really big win for you.   Jeremy Chardy is a seeded player.   He didn't seem to serve very well today, but what did you do to not get distracted from your game?   
DONALD YOUNG:   It's a big win for me.   Every win at this level is a big win.   I don't think he played his best.   I thought I competed well.   You're not able to play great every day, so I'm glad I was able to play well enough to win today.  
   
 Q.   Couple years ago you beat Andy Murray here early.   Is there something special for you about playing here?  
DONALD YOUNG:   Yeah, I like it.   The weather is great.   The way the ball flies through the air and comes off the court.   Topspin, it takes well on this court and makes my serve a little normal.   All those things combined.   Puts you in good atmosphere.   
   
 Q.   Some of the players earlier this week were talking about maybe they know the conditions, the ball flies, but the courts are slow.   Seems like some players this year are struggling to adjust to it this year.   Have you noticed anything with the conditions?  
DONALD YOUNG:   Yeah, seems like it's flying a tad more than normal.   It's hard to control.   I don't know, if it goes over a certain height the ball is just going out.   But other than that, it's playing like normal.   But the court might be a little slower, as well.  
   
 Q.   At break point in the second set where you were able to come back from Love‑30 to get up 4‑2, really kind of seemed like the breaking point in that set for him.   Talk about, you know, how you felt like that kind of turned the match in your favor.   
DONALD YOUNG:   Yeah, any time you can break someone late in the set is pretty big.   I was able to do it from Love‑30.   He missed a few shots and I made a couple shots I don't think he expected me to make.   
Went fast after that.   I was excited for him to miss a couple of balls.  
   
 Q.   Is this your first match on Court 1 here, or have you played there before?  
DONALD YOUNG:   No, I have played there a few times before, but the first time this year, yeah.  
   
 Q.   What was it like have a little bit of fan support there playing the first match of the day?   Seemed like the crowd was really behind you.   
DONALD YOUNG:   It's great.   Coming from last week in Scotland where the crowd was 100% against me, to have them cheering for me felt pretty good.   
It's like another person on your side that's helping you out when you get down.   It's another person on the other guy's back, as well, because they kind of stay on you.   
   
 Q.   You had some good results in Delray Beach and Memphis.   Is this the year for you to break through and win some titles?  
DONALD YOUNG:   Hopefully so.   That's one thing at the top of my list is win a title.   Hopefully this is the year I can get my first title and will play more consistently week in and week out.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the next round?   Pretty good opportunity.   
DONALD YOUNG:   Yeah, for sure.   Rafa or Igor.   I haven't Rafa before, but I have beaten Igor.   Going to be a tough match whoever I play.   
If I play Rafa I'm not going to be the guy favored to win so I can swing free.   I don't have any points to defend, so it's just free swinging from here out for me.  
   
 Q.   With the Murray match a couple years ago, is there something from that you can draw on when you play a big match against Rafa here at this tournament?  
DONALD YOUNG:   Yeah, I actually played Rafa here before in the third round in 2008, so it won't be the first time here.   I'm playing well.   I think it's the best tennis I have been playing in my career on a consistent basis.   
I'm excited to be in these positions and go out there and give my best and see what happens.  
   
 Q.   What do you remember from that 2008 match against Rafa?  
DONALD YOUNG:   It was pretty exciting.   He beat me pretty good, but it was fun to be out there.   I was 18, so it was really exciting.   I was a very, very young kid, for sure.   
   
 Q.   You're a student of the game.   Serena Williams' serve.   What do you notice about it that's so impressive even among men?   People seem to be really impressed by it.   
DONALD YOUNG:   Yeah, she has a great serve.   The speed is comparable to the guys.   She works harder than some of the guys on a regular basis.   She has a great rhythm.   You know, great timing.   Great ball toss.   She can hit the different spots.   Spins off the top.   It's really hard to read, so that makes it a great serve.   
Especially against the women who maybe don't have the biggest serves she has one.   It's a huge weapon for her.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT