ROLAND GARROS
May 31, 2014
Donald Young
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 G. GARCIA‑LOPEZ/D. Young
      6‑2, 6‑4, 2‑6, 6‑7, 6‑4 
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please.   
   
 Q.   Must feel gutted after that one.   
    DONALD YOUNG:   Yeah, for sure.   It's not really how I wanted it to end.   Being down two sets to love you feet like you might be a little bit out of it, but I competed hard.  
    I had a chance to break and serve for it.   I was in between two different things that I wanted to do.   
    Yeah, definitely not the best feeling, but I can take some positives away as well.  
   
 Q.   Seems like you're on an upward arc again, and you sort of tend to do that and sometimes you go down?  
    DONALD YOUNG:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   How does that work for you?   
    DONALD YOUNG:   Yeah, you know, little things sometimes usually can deter me and I can go down.   It's been a little more consistent at the highest level this time.  
    It's not where I want it to be quite yet, but definitely moving in the right direction.   I am really excited that I'm playing better and just mentally maturing and competing harder than I have before.   
   
 Q.   What will a match like this, what can it do for you going forward?  
    DONALD YOUNG:   It does a lot.   Obviously clay is my worst surface, but, you know, I haven't made the third round on the Wimbledon before, so...   
    It does a lot, to be honest.   Coming back two sets to love, having chances, fighting against a solid, quality clay courter, I can take some positives away.   
   
 Q.   Sometime people forget how young you are.   People say, Oh, he's only like 24.   
    DONALD YOUNG:   Right.  
   
 Q.   You filled out some in the past few years.   
    DONALD YOUNG:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   You think you're done growing and filling out yet?   You getting stronger, you feel?  
    DONALD YOUNG:   Hopefully I grow some more inches.   I doubt that's going to happen, though.  
    I can definitely always get stronger.   That's been something I've worked on with my trainer at home.   
    I've gone to L.A.   in the off‑season to try to work on those things.   It's not 100% where I want it to be, but it's a step in the right direction.   I want to keep improving in that way.  
   
 Q.   The atmosphere out there was pretty cool.   They were chanting your name.   There was a standing ovation.   What was it like for you?   
    DONALD YOUNG:   It was great.   At the time you're just competing and playing.   Looking back on it, hopefully I can get the tape and really see it because I wasn't checking it out too much.  
    I did hear my name quite a bit, which is great, especially in France.   It's something that's never happened.   I've never been in that position.   
    I guess they were appreciating the effort or play or whatever, but it felt good.  
   
 Q.   How do you take this and build on it?   Is there a way that you're looking at it differently?  
    DONALD YOUNG:   Yeah, for sure.   100% last year or a couple years ago I would've thrown it in.   It would've been three sets to love, whatever the score was, and 6‑1, 6‑2.   I decided to fight, and I felt I was better than that.   I felt I had a chance to win even from two sets to love down.  
    I was confident my legs would last as well.  
   
 Q.   What's next for you?   
    DONALD YOUNG:   I'm going to go home, rest a little, and come back for the grass.   Play Eastbourne and then Wimbledon.   
   
 Q.   How big was it for you having all the success in the California challengers last fall?   Does winning create more winning for you, essentially?   Is it that simple?   
    DONALD YOUNG:   Yeah.   That's the reason I'm able to be in these tournaments.   Got me into the top 100 where I was able to make the Australian Open cut and play well there and have some other tournaments here and there where I did okay and get enough points where I could make it and not have to qualify and start even.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT