NCAA BASEBALL CHAMPIONSHIP REGIONALS: BATON ROUGE
May 31, 2015
Joe Alleva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   If we can get a comment from Joe and then we'll open it to questions. 
JOE ALLEVA:   Well, regretfully, the game that we were supposed to play tonight against UNC Wilmington has been postponed to tomorrow at 12:00.   Now you're going to ask me why.   The NCAA made a decision.   They decided that they wanted to‑‑ they didn't give me a reason.   I don't have a reason, okay.   There's a rule that says you're not allowed to start‑‑ there's a guideline that says you're not allowed to start a game after 11:00.   We could have easily started this game at 10:15. 
Frankly it's a ridiculous decision.   It hurts from the standpoint that when you're in the winner's bracket, you have a competitive advantage.   That competitive advantage has been negated by this decision.   It's sad for our team, and it's even worse for our fans.   I feel so terribly bad for our fans, 10,000 fans that all showed up here tonight and now all had to go home.   A terrible decision by the NCAA, period.   That's all I have to say, and if you have any questions, I'll be happy to answer them for you. 

Q.   When did you find out?   Who told you, and what was their reasoning?
JOE ALLEVA:   I got a call from a guy named Damani Leech.   Damani Leech is the NCAA representative that handles the baseball tournament.   He's the coordinator.   He called about an hour ago, about an hour and a half ago, and said‑‑ he actually called earlier and said they were thinking about not playing the game.   I called and tried to talk them out of it.   I obviously wasn't successful.   Then he called about an hour and 15 minutes ago and said the game is moved to 12:00 tomorrow.

Q.   Did he give any reason? 
JOE ALLEVA:   No, no reason.   The guideline‑‑ again, I say the guideline says you can't start a game after 11:00.   We could have easily got that in at that time. 
You know, I understand if it was a weather factor, but right now the weather is fine.   We could play this game. 

Q.   Was this a unilateral decision by him?   Was he the one making this? 
JOE ALLEVA:   Well, I personally hold him responsible.   I'm sure he consulted with other members of the committee.   You know, the baseball‑‑ baseball has a committee just like every sport, championship has a committee.   I'm sure he consulted with some of the members of the baseball committee in making his decision, but ultimately it's his call.

Q.   I talked to the NCAA rep here on‑site and he didn't want to comment.   He said maybe I'll comment, I'll see if I can.   Is that guy powerless?
JOE ALLEVA:   Powerless.   Yeah, he's not making any calls, so don't hold him responsible.   He's a good guy.   Don't hold him responsible. 

Q.   Do you think this has to do with television in any way, shape or form?
JOE ALLEVA:   I asked that question, and no, I don't think so.   I really don't. 

Q.   How do you feel that the fans and also the‑‑ like the media and everything that has to make a sacrifice and come back tomorrow that came here tonight not just to cover this thing but to try to watch the Tigers try to win this regional?
JOE ALLEVA:   Well, I feel really bad for our fans, more so than anything.   I also feel bad for our team.   Our team has been here all day waiting to play, and now they're not going to play.   They're very mad and they're disappointed, and our fans are obviously mad and disappointed.   I would be if I was a fan.   I came here to watch the game tonight myself, so I'm not real happy about the whole situation.

Q.   I know you talked to Paul earlier.   He's obviously probably upset about the situation, as well.   Is that just the competitive advantage that you talked about? 
JOE ALLEVA:   Yeah, I think it's definitely a competitive advantage.   When you're in the winner's bracket‑‑ we won last night, so we should reap the benefits of having to play today.   That's what happens when you're in the loser's side, you should have to play two games today, so they only had to play one game today.   That's one very important point.   The other point is I got 10,000 fans that were here that are very disappointed, paid their money to come watch a game tonight.

Q.   Was there any talk earlier in the day of moving the start of the games earlier to try and deal with the rain?
JOE ALLEVA:   No.   That would be too logical. 

Q.   Did you suggest that?   Is it something you suggested to the NCAA? 
JOE ALLEVA:   Yesterday we wanted to start the game at 1:00, but they wouldn't let us start at 1:00.   If we had started at 1:00 we would have not finished at 1:00 in the evening. 

Q.   When you suggested starting the games at 1:00 and they said no, what was the reason there?   Did it have to do with television?
JOE ALLEVA:   I think at that point it probably did. 

Q.   Have you spoken to Paul?
JOE ALLEVA:   Oh, yeah, I was with him.   He's not real happy. 

Q.   Joe, what will the ticket situation be for fans?   Is there a plan in place for what they need to do?
JOE ALLEVA:   Yeah, I appreciate you asking that question.   Whoever has a ticket for tonight's game will be admitted to tomorrow's game at 12:00. 

Q.   And then the second game‑‑
JOE ALLEVA:   They still have another ticket for that one. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT