THE RYDER CUP
September 27, 2018
Thorbjørn Olesen
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Your thoughts on tomorrow?  
THORBJØRN OLESEN: Looking forward to it.  Very, very excited.  Rory and I played together a few times, so, yeah, excited.   
 Q.  You're the experienced man in the partnership and part of the opening morning two years ago.  How much does that focus your attention on trying to be more successful this year?  
RORY McILROY: I think looking at the matchups, I think all four matches are going to be fantastic.  I've played Rickie a lot in Ryder Cup over the past few years, so it's a comfortable match for both of us.  Obviously Thorbjørn and Dustin know each other just a little bit through their management group, so it will be a comfortable grouping.   
Especially first Ryder Cup match for Thorbjørn, so the more comfortable it can be, the better.  Just excited to get going tomorrow and can't wait to partner up with this man and try to bring a point home for Europe.   
 Q.  What makes you so compatible?  
RORY McILROY: Thorbjørn and I have known each other for a lot of years.  We first played together in Egypt in 2010, which is a long time ago.  But I think our game styles are pretty similar.  We both hit the ball a long way and we sort of see the game similarly, and it's about chemistry, and as being one of the more experienced players, I wanted to not necessarily take a rookie under my wing, but if it was called upon me to play with someone with a little less experience, I was all for that.   
I think it's going to be a good experience for Thorbjørn to go out there tomorrow morning and experience the first tee.  I just can't wait to go out with him and try to win a point for Europe.   
 Q.  What does it say that the rookies are playing in the morning?  
RORY McILROY: It means that they are not really rookies.  They know the golf course so well and Thorbjørn has played the golf course in the French Open, so it's not anything new.   
THORBJØRN OLESEN: It's nice to be alongside Rory, very experienced.  That will make it a little bit easier.  Yeah, I'll be nervous, but I'll embrace it.  It's a great feel.  I'm looking forward to it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT