FUNAI GOLF CLASSIC AT WALT DISNEY WORLD RESORT
October 25, 2003
Scott Verplank
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Scott, thanks for joining us.  Another 66.  Talk a little about your day and we'll get to your card.

SCOTT VERPLANK: Okay.  Conditions were rough.  I thought they quite a bit tough and particularly yesterday.  Yesterday the wind didn't blow at all.  Today everything was firmed up a little bit.  The wind was blowing kind of 10 to 20 at various times and the greens were a lot tougher.  I played well today and basically I played better today than I did the other day because it was much tougher conditions.

THE MODERATOR:  No. 5, birdie.

SCOTT VERPLANK:  Yeah, No. 5 I made a nice putt there, about a 30-footer.  I hadn't been making any of those and that kind of got me started.  I made another probably 25-footer on 7.  So, that was a bonus there.  I hit a nice shot on 8, 10 feet; made that one.

THE MODERATOR:  What did you hit there?

SCOTT VERPLANK: On 8 I hit a sand wedge. 

No. 10, I was in the greenside bunker and hit it about two feet.

And then actually I was just short of the green on 12 and I chipped in.  So that was the first green I missed and I chipped in and I thought that was pretty good.

THE MODERATOR: How far did you have to chip in?

SCOTT VERPLANK: 25 feet, 30 feet, approximately. 


Q.  How about on 14?

SCOTT VERPLANK: 14, I hit a sand wedge about four feet and made that.

THE MODERATOR:  How about on 15?

SCOTT VERPLANK: 15, I just pretty much cold-footed and I was kind of in between clubs and I was feeling pumped so I figured I'd take less club and I smoked it about two inches behind and I came up well short of the green and then I just -- I didn't hit that great a chip.  Just hit it six inches, two short, and a beautiful putt from 10 or 12 feet.  I gave it too much to get it out of the hole and I somehow went around it but other than that I was -- that was my first bogey for the week and that was kind of disappointing but that's the way it goes sometimes. 


Q.  You were riding the 66 train but today was demonstrably better because of the conditions, you felt?

SCOTT VERPLANK: It was a tougher day to hit 6-under par than it was the first two days and as I said yesterday, it was just ideal.  I played in the morning, beautiful.  As nice a day as you can get around anywhere.  And today was, I thought, much more difficult conditions because you had a lot harder time controlling the distance of your ball and the direction.


Q.  What were you hoping for when you arrived?

SCOTT VERPLANK:  Well, I don't know.  I was hoping to win but mainly I'm hoping to play well enough where I don't have to play next week because there's a big game in college football in Norman that I want to go watch.  They are kind of on a roll against OU and I would like to go to Norman and watch that game next week.


Q.  Getting in the TOUR Championship -- I know one thing takes care of the other -- I want to talk about the difference other than winning playing to get in the tournament?

SCOTT VERPLANK: Well, always if I play well enough tomorrow, my number one focus will be to try to win the golf tournament.  Like you said the other stuff takes care of itself.  At the start of every year, you know, I think that's one of my goals, to make sure that I'm at least playing the TOUR Championship.  Obviously some of my goals are to win some tournaments and hopefully have good success at that and I hadn't won this year. 

Last year was kind of disappointing where I didn't finish in the Top-30.  I kind of felt like I was distracted all year with the Ryder Cup being pushed back a year and I had never played and so I didn't know what to expect.  So, basically for 12 months, you know, I kind of felt like I was distracted.  Every time I hit a bad shot or played a bad round I felt like, "Oh, man I got the Ryder Cup coming up," and fortunately for me I performed pretty well over there.  But that kind of held me back last year.  So this year I played pretty good.  I had a tough stretch, a couple months  -- a couple of months this summer, but pretty solid.


Q.  (Inaudible)?

SCOTT VERPLANK: Yeah, in New Orleans I was leading.  Obviously going into the last round I had a pretty good lead, three shots or something.  Vegas  -- I finished fourth in Vegas two weeks ago and one hole pretty much cost me the tournament.  That 16 on Saturday, what I thought was a nice shot as any.   Stewart Appleby gets up on the next hole and snap hits a 7-iron and hits it on the side of bank and stays out of the water.  He wins the tournament.  I don't know.  I didn't see that.  I was right ahead of him.  You know I basically one hole cost me that golf tournament.


Q.  You got the whole family with you again?

SCOTT VERPLANK: Oh, man I was at the park until 10 o'clock last night.  I was dying.  I bought some blue hair but I didn't have a costume.  This was more like from the Cat in the Hat.  Like the thing.  Couple little girls with us.  I was wear a wig. 


Q.  (Inaudible)?

SCOTT VERPLANK: We had some rock stars and those things too from Cat in the Hat, Dr. Seuss and Eeyore.


Q.  (Inaudible)?

SCOTT VERPLANK: Absolutely not.  Forbidden.  


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT