100TH WESTERN OPEN
July 4, 2003
Scott Verplank
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. How were the conditions out there today?
SCOTT VERPLANK:  Well, I mean, it was good.  If you were playing well, the golf course was in great shape and the golf balls are really going a long way.  It's so hot.  It was definitely the biggest sweat day of the year so far.

Q.  Some guys are saying it can be downwind on the tee ball, and the approach wind can be in your face.
SCOTT VERPLANK:  I noticed that a little bit on the back nine.  You couldn't tell if it was blowing west, southwest, south.  It would move around just enough to confuse you just a little bit.

Q.  You're a product of the Midwest.  You're kind of used to those winds going all over the place?
SCOTT VERPLANK:  I was in Oklahoma City, and when the wind blows from one direction there, you know it.

Q.  It's been a long time, since 1985, since you've won here.  Does this bring back memories?
SCOTT VERPLANK:  Not really of that.  I mean, I always obviously enjoy coming to the Western Open.  It always has a special spot on my tournament schedule. 
The only thing that would be better would be to win the tournament again.  That would probably be -- it would probably mean more to me now than it did -- I forgot about that it was so long ago.

Q.  You always play well here, though. 
SCOTT VERPLANK:  Yeah, I've played okay here at Cog Hill.  It's a good golf course, and if I play well, you know, I can score out here. 
Really this is just more my time of year, this time of year when it starts heating up I generally play a little better.  The Western happens to fall right in that category.

Q.  (Inaudible). 
SCOTT VERPLANK:  Pretty much.  I mean, there's always -- a couple of the greens have been built at different times than some of the original ones, so they're a little different, but I've played here enough to know which ones do which and which ones do something else.

Q.  (Inaudible). 
SCOTT VERPLANK:  What kind of stupid question is that?  Absolutely.  I mean, that would be great.  I'd sure like to hold that trophy.  It gives so much money to the Tour, it's great, but getting that trophy would be pretty cool.

Q.  (Inaudible). 
SCOTT VERPLANK:  I knew coming out I was going to have to play good to get back in the game.  There's not a whole lot of guys lying down.  Everybody out here knows how to go low.

Q.  (Inaudible). 
SCOTT VERPLANK:  It's great.  I mean, you know, we've just had this spike in the last four or five years, a lot of it having to do with Tiger's popularity, and our purses have increased.  I don't know, what was Jim McMahon making in 1985, the Super Bowl winning quarterback?  I mean, it's all somewhat relative.

Q.  What would be more rewarding, just the amount of time since your first victory here or (inaudible)? 
SCOTT VERPLANK:  Here it would be a little bit of both because that would be a pretty large gap in between 1985 and sometime in the future, but every time I play well, I have a lot better appreciation -- I have a lot more appreciation for it just because of the things I've been through.

Q.  There is the possibility of playing with Tiger on the weekend.  Have you played much with him?
SCOTT VERPLANK:  I've played with him enough times to know that he's fun to -- I like playing with him.  He's fun to play with and fun to watch.  That would be great.  I mean, if you were out there with Tiger Woods every game you played out here, you'd be a pretty damn good player.

Q.  Do you have any adrenaline going, any more?
SCOTT VERPLANK:  Not for me.  I've been through too much and been out here too long to get too excited about who I'm playing with.  I don't pay much attention to that.




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT