GREATER GREENSBORO CHRYSLER CLASSIC
April 10, 2000
Scott Verplank
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 JOAN vT ALEXANDER: We'd like to thank Scott Verplank for coming into the interview
room. Your low round of the year, Scott. 6-under, 66. I think you opened with a 65 in the
first round of Las Vegas last year. Let's begin with talking about your round today and
how you played and how the course played. 
 
 SCOTT VERPLANK: Well, I drove the ball extremely well. I didn't miss a fairway today,
which around here is pretty important. The rough is extremely thick. And I didn't -- and I
hadn't missed a green until I got around to the 8th hole, and I missed No. 8, No. 9, the
last two holes of the day. So up to that point I was -- I wasn't struggling too much. I
made a couple of 5-footers for par after a first putt, but generally I was putting it -- I
was -- I putted a birdie for 16 holes. So -- and I hit it close four or five times, so
that made it relatively easy, if you can say that about golf.  
 
Q. Your memories of here, losing that playoff? Good memories?
 
 SCOTT VERPLANK: I have great memories of that. Other than losing the playoff,
everything else was good. When I made that 30-footer on the last hole, that was pretty
cool. I have great memories of that. 
 
Q. When you think about your comeback from several years, is that the first moment
where you thought: I'm all the way back?
 
 SCOTT VERPLANK: Yeah, two years ago coming into this tournament I played well, about
like I've played so far this year. But not great. And then I had a pretty good chance to
win the golf tournament. So that gave me some added confidence. I went on and had a pretty
nice year that year. I don't know what happened last year, other than I didn't make any
putts. But I've played pretty decent in the last month, month and a half. So I feel like
I'm doing the right stuff. And coming here to a place that I'm reasonably comfortable with
and I'm pretty familiar with the golf course, today it showed. 
 
Q. The players that came in yesterday and talked about how the course wouldn't be as
dry last year, yet scores are low today. Is the course playing long or not?
 
 SCOTT VERPLANK: It's playing longer, yeah, because the ball is not rolling. But the
greens are very receptive. They're really good. They're in great shape. They're actually a
little faster than I thought they were going to be after all the rain. But there's no way
to explain it out here, but somebody plays good every single day, no matter what the
conditions, what the golf course. These guys are good.  
 
Q. It used to be a consideration around here that this was a hard golf course, and low
scores like have been posted the last couple of years, came few and far between. Now
suddenly everybody feels like they're taking aim at it. Do you have a different mindset?
 
 SCOTT VERPLANK: I don't think it's an easy golf course. I know if you drive it in the
rough, it's a hard golf course. It just depends. I know two years ago when I lost the
playoffs, the last day was extremely difficult. And it was just warm and windy and the
golf course dried out. And I was tied for the lead going into the last round, shot even
par and got in the playoffs. That ought to tell you it was playing pretty tough around
here. It just depends on the conditions. When everything is soft and you keep the ball in
the fairway and keep it on the green, guys are going to shoot good scores. 
 
Q. Scott, you know, as you look at yourself these last couple of years, somehow there's
a Scott Verplank really, really super weekend waiting to happen. And I think you're very,
very close, I wonder your thoughts?
 
 SCOTT VERPLANK: Do you know when that's going to be? Please let me know when that's
going to be. Like I said, I think I've been doing the right stuff this year. I'm getting
better. A little more comfortable with the things I'm doing. I'm putting better so far
this year than I did last year. Last year was kind of an aberration for me. I've always
been a pretty good putter, and I -- last year I putted awful all year long. And I've got
it turned around a little bit and stroking better and making a few putts. And that's what
I've been waiting on. Hopefully this will be the week. 
 
Q. What were your longest putts you made out there today for birdie?
 
 SCOTT VERPLANK: I made about a -- let's see -- I started on 10, hit a 7-iron about four
feet. And then on No. 11 I hit an 8-iron about probably 18 to 20 feet, and I made that.
And that was the longest putt I made, actually. 13th hole, I hit it up on the green in
two, chipped up to about 5 feet and made that. 14, I hit an 8-iron out of the fairway
about four feet and made that. Then I hit a pitching wedge on No. 5 about four feet. Then
I hit a sand wedge on No. 6 about two feet. I hit a sand wedge on No. 7 about six feet and
made that. 
 
Q. 8 and 9, just missed the green?
 
 SCOTT VERPLANK: I hit a 3-iron on 8, and missed it in the right bunker, and actually
made a great up-and-down. I hit a nice shot about 6 feet from the hole and made it. 9, I
just hit it about five yards too far with my layup shot. If you're trying to be perfect --
and I was on kind of a severe downslope and between in between a number. I had a sand
wedge in my hand and I tried to get cute with it, and I guess that wasn't the thing to do.
But that's the way it goes. If I pull it off, then I'm going to hit it in there a couple
of feet and make another birdie. It just didn't happen. 
 
Q. Where did the sand wedge go?
 
 SCOTT VERPLANK: I hit it fat up short of the green and chipped up about 6 feet, and hit
a pretty nice putt and it lipped out. That stuff happens sometimes. 
 
Q. When you score like you did today, but finish that way, do you walk away more
disappointed than pleased?
 
 SCOTT VERPLANK: No -- yeah, obviously you don't want to bogey a par 5, especially
finishing the day when you played well. I kind of left myself in a tough spot, really. I
wasn't that comfortable with standing over the ball on my third shot with a downhill lie,
with trying to hit a three-quarter shot. So I wish I had made that putt for par. But like
I said, I didn't -- I don't feel like I played great today. But I hit the ball in the
fairway and on the green, and hit it close enough times to make some birdies. So I'm not
disappointed about it. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT