TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 27, 2010
Scott Verplank
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 DOUG MILNE: Scott Verplank, thanks for joining us for a few minutes after a great final round 6-under 64 got you into the playoff. Obviously didn't yield quite the result that you were hoping for. It was a great putt at 18 on the first hole. Just a few comments on the week, and just kind of how you're feeling about the game and your kind of general thoughts overall.
 SCOTT VERPLANK: Well, I'm disappointed that I made bogey on 16 there to kind of give it to him. I wouldn't say I gave it to him, but just misjudged my putt through the fringe. 
 But you know what, I did a couple of crazy things on the Back 9 today. I made two eagles, kind of improbable eagles, and got right there. And you know, lots of funny things happened the last three or four holes to let me even have a chance. 
 So you know, I think this is a -- I really enjoy this golf course. It's a great tournament golf course. Starting on 13 it's a great finish. If you want a lot of excitement, you want a chance for big swings, you can do it. You know, you can make eagle, you can make double on 13 and 15 for sure. 
 I had a chance, you know. I hit a great putt on 18 in the first playoff deal, you know. I kind of thought when I hit it up there, I knew I was in there in pretty good shape and kind of thinking that was going to be a win. 
 Then Bubba hit it up there a couple inches, so obviously that was to keep going. But hit beautiful putt right in the middle. Proud of that. Just disappointed that I pulled that 8-iron on 16.
 DOUG MILNE: Okay. We'll go ahead and open it up for a few questions.

 Q. (Indiscernible)?
 SCOTT VERPLANK: Well, when I got up to the green, I saw how close the ball was to the hole, then I kind of did. Then I kind of thought about it, I was like, wow. But you know, didn't go in. So I had an opening. Just didn't take advantage of it.

 Q. (Indiscernible)?
 SCOTT VERPLANK: Mine was probably seven feet, maybe seven, eight feet. 

 Q. Did it break a lot left-to-right?
 SCOTT VERPLANK: No. Just a little left-to-right. It was just mainly straight down the hill. Wasn't going to leave it short. Really didn't have any -- wasn't going to anyway because it was straight down the hill. But hit a great putt. It went right in the middle. Just like I said, I got over there and just pulled it on 16.

 Q. (Indiscernible)?
 SCOTT VERPLANK: Well, you know what, I knew I was marginal -- the grass was just all beat up there. But I've been putting it through. Since it didn't rain, it was pretty firm around the edges, and it was rolling through there better than trying to flop it on the green. 
 It was just scuffed up, and it just kind of started bouncing and that took all the speed off it. It was a pretty tough shot. Wasn't the greatest spot to be.

 Q. Thinking back on the start of the day, are you thinking Round 1 that you're going to have any chance to maybe win? Did you think starting the round that, you know what, I might have a chance?
 SCOTT VERPLANK: I didn't really think that until Bubba (sic) made double on 17, honestly. You know what, my goal today was to shoot 7-under. And you know, I kind of was all around it, had a couple of good things happen, made a couple eagles. 
 I think if I'd have birdied 17, which I had a great shot at, I would have been -- I would have been 7-under and I think I would have had a good chance to get another one on 18. 
 But I wasn't really thinking I'd have a chance to win. Justin's ahead. If he goes out and shoots a good 3, 4, 5-under par, nobody can catch him. But lots of funny things happen. Just when you think it's over, it's not over. 
 DOUG MILNE: Okay. If you wouldn't mind just running us through your card, like you noted, two eagles, two birdies, clubs and yards.
 SCOTT VERPLANK: No. 2, I just had a sand wedge from about 85 yards, hit it about 15 feet. So it wasn't that great a putt -- or that great a shot, but I made that putt.
 And No. 6 I hit it right up in front of the green in two and chipped up about two feet. Then 13 was a 50-footer pretty much. I don't know exactly how far it was, but it was kind of in the back center of the green, and it hit the hole with a lot of aggression. It might have gone off the green if it wouldn't have gone in. But it was center cut, thank God. 
 And then 15, I hit it over in that bunker and I watched the guy in front of me kind of flub it out of the bunker, and it was a very difficult shot. And I got in there and had a perfect lie, and I said, well, you can try to be real cute. You know, it just wasn't that kind of shot. I got in there and said, you know what, I gotta try to make it. That's the only way to get it close. 
 Hit a great shot, came out, had a little spin, rolled in just like a perfect putt. That was pretty exciting. That's always fun to do. Had some exciting moments today.
 You know, I mean the first two -- first three rounds really I should have been in a lot better shape. First two rounds I was way off pace, and really that's what cost me having a much better shot today. But I switched putters on Saturday morning and played great on the weekend. I've only switched a couple times in 25 years, so that's a pretty monumental deal for me.

 Q. (Indiscernible)?
 SCOTT VERPLANK: I just putted so bad the first two days. Just felt awful, so I went to this new Ghost putter, the white TaylorMade Ghost, and I watched Justin for two days shoot 14-under and made everything with one of those Ghost putters, and I go, well, maybe I'll try that. You know, I had one that was made for me. So worked pretty good.

 Q. Had you used it before at all?
 SCOTT VERPLANK: Not in tournament. 

 Q. (Indiscernible)?
 SCOTT VERPLANK: I didn't. You know what, I just left it. I was looking for a total change, so I didn't put any tape on it, nothing. I just took it and said, let's go. 
 Yeah, well, they made it for me, but I didn't have any gauze tape on the grip or anything. Worked pretty good. So we'll see. I wish I'd have done that last week, but you never know. 
 DOUG MILNE: Okay, Scott. Thanks for your time.
 SCOTT VERPLANK: Okay. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT