MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2010
Scott Verplank
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. We saw you playing a pretty darned good round of golf.   
 SCOTT VERPLANK: Well, there was a little stumble there at the end obviously. I played really good for 16 holes. I really could have even been better off than I was. But it was a lot more fun than shooting 73, which I had shot every day.   
  
  Q. Eagle at 13, tell us about that.   
 SCOTT VERPLANK: Well, I actually hit a really good drive, got it around the corner a little bit and only had a couple hundred -- 200 yards left. I think I had 203 or something and I hit a 4-iron, landed perfect, about a yard on the green, rolled up to about ten inches, so I didn't have to sweat it. It was pretty good.   
 Actually the same thing happened today that has happened all week, it was just my putting kind of let me down, my putting. I missed a short one at 9 for birdie and three-putted from eight, ten feet on 17, then missed that one, although I hit a nice putt right there. It did the double Augusta break from four feet.  
  
  Q. Did the top 16 enter your mind at any point?  
 SCOTT VERPLANK: Yeah, I mean, I kind of had a goal for the day was to get to -- I kind of figured 2 would be pretty close, 3 would be a lot, and I got it to 4 and then I kind of screwed it up there at the end.   
  
  Q. What about the course itself? Are there some birdie holes out there?  
 SCOTT VERPLANK: Oh, yeah. I mean, the pins are -- they're Sunday pins, but some like 14 is not the really tough Sunday pin over on the right. It's the Sunday pin on 13, but that one is kind of there -- if you hit a good drive you can get it in there close. 11 is easier; 11 is kind of middle right instead of messing around with the water.   
 But yeah, they're traditional Sunday pins, but most of these guys that are near the top now know how to get around those. There will be some -- hopefully it'll be as exciting today as it was yesterday.  
  
  Q. Would you classify this as one of the very good rounds you've played at Augusta?  
 SCOTT VERPLANK: Well, yeah. For 16 holes it was awesome. But no, you know what, I struggled with the 17th hole since they moved it back, and I always feel I've got to hit it extra hard off the tee, and it was a terrible tee shot. Yeah, 17th hole is a tough hole. If you don't carry it -- if you don't comfortably carry it about 280, it's a hard hole.  
  
  Q. Were these the conditions that you had to have to feel like it fits your game a little better?  
 SCOTT VERPLANK: Yeah. Like I said, I probably had -- I made a double bogey every day, which you really can't do, and I probably three-putted six or eight times. Other than that, I was really worried about -- I really don't think I hit it that bad. I three-putted too much.  
  
  Q. The finish was tough. What happened? Did you start thinking about, okay, just get in the clubhouse in the top 16?  
 SCOTT VERPLANK: Well, you're trying not to. No, I was trying to make birdies. I hit a good putt on 15 and missed it; didn't quite get it up the hill far enough on 16 so I didn't have a great chance there; and then 17 I just messed it up; I had a ten-footer for par, which obviously is not ideal, but it hit something and really got it going left and ran about three feet past, and then I lipped out and missed it. And 18, I hit a really nice fairway wood. None of the shots were that bad, really. It came up a little short, chipped it good, hit a nice putt and didn't go where I thought it would.   
  
  Q. 68, is this your best round here?  
 SCOTT VERPLANK: I don't know.  
  
  Q. Have you ever been going as well as you were for 14 holes at any point in your career here?   
 SCOTT VERPLANK: Here, no, because I was kicking along pretty good. But not that many people have been going that good.  
  
  Q. Tell me about the hole location at 7. Is that an easy hole location?  
 SCOTT VERPLANK: Yeah, that's the easiest one on that green.  
  
  Q. That would explain Tiger's eagle there?  
 SCOTT VERPLANK: I guess. Yeah, it's the easiest pin placement on the green. If you get it in that right half, it funnels back in there. He never gets any good breaks anyway. (Laughter.)  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT