DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 6, 2009
Scott Verplank
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Nice finish there, birdies on 17 and 18, just one shot back. What are your thoughts about today's round?
 SCOTT VERPLANK: Well, it was a nice way to finish. I was playing pretty good. Just the last three or four holes I didn't make any putts. I was close and had some good chances, but I three-putted 10 and then I kind of righted the ship after that and actually made a couple of nice putts coming in. Pretty good shape.

 Q. How was the golf course playing out there today?
 SCOTT VERPLANK: I thought it was pretty tough. I'm sure that it dried up quite a bit from this morning. The first six or eight holes there were greens that looked like they were on their last breath. I guess they need to put some water on them, but I don't know what they're going to do. But the golf course is not playing that easy.

 Q. You've been out here certainly a long time. As you head into the final round, any thoughts about how you approach that?
 SCOTT VERPLANK: You know what, yeah, just do the same stuff that I'm doing. I'm doing a pretty good job of being patient and hitting a lot of fairways and a lot of greens. Like I said, I was pretty patient today but couldn't get anything to go. Finally there at the end I capitalized. 

 Q. You played with a guy who, sorry to remind you of this, is a full adult younger than you, Dustin Johnson, 21 years younger than you, hits it a long way. What's that like? I know the scorecard tells it different, but what's that like?
 SCOTT VERPLANK: Well, it's pretty mindboggling at times. I mean, the guy hits it so far. A couple holes he was 50 or 60 yards past me; he can cut the corner and I can't. It's fun to watch, to be honest with you. As long as I beat him, I enjoy watching it.

 Q. Fantastic ending, 17 and 18. Talk about it. 
 SCOTT VERPLANK: You know, like I said, I was pretty patient today and just kind of hung in there. I didn't really get much to fall in the first 10 or 12 holes and then made a couple of better pars and obviously made a nice putt on 17 and really hit a pretty nice second shot on 18 and got a terrible lie for my chip shot, ran it by 12 or 15 feet, and somehow it went in.

 Q. A lot of guys in the hunt. What is tomorrow going to be like?
 SCOTT VERPLANK: I think it's going to be a lot like today. It's going to be cool. The greens are probably going to be hard and fast, and you're still going to have to make birdies. Should make for an exciting finish. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT