DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 4, 2009
Scott Verplank
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOHN BUSH: We'd like to welcome Scott Verplank into the interview room after a 6-under par 65. Scott, that was great playing out there, got off to a tremendous start, just kept it going. Let's just get some comments. 
 SCOTT VERPLANK: Yeah, you know, this morning came really early for me. Obviously it worked very well, but I was up all night last night not feeling very well. Stricker and I went out and ate dinner last night, and we both had the same thing. We rode to the restaurant and back to the hotel together, and I could barely make it out here this morning, and I called him right when I got here, and I said, "Are you not feeling well?" "No, I'm fine." 
 I mean, I was bad last night. I got about two or three hours of sleep, broken up. 
 I was really just kind of hoping to survive today, and you know what, maybe that's what I needed because I got -- I was pretty relaxed and just more -- I was more worried about putting one foot in front of the next one versus anything else. 
 Starting on the 2nd hole I hit a nice drive and a beautiful 5-wood up there about 12 feet and made it for eagle, and then I just kind of kept hitting it close around the front nine and actually hit it about five feet on No. 8 and missed that. And then I kind of started feeling the effects a little on the back nine. I was dragging a little bit. 
 I birdied the last two holes, so that was a great way to finish the day, because I am done today. 

 Q. That being said, given the way Stricker is playing, are you guys going to have the same meal again tonight?
 SCOTT VERPLANK: I promise you I'm not.

 Q. What was it? It worked for him, too. 
 SCOTT VERPLANK: We had lobster ravioli, which you would think would be really good up here right next to where all the lobsters live. But it didn't work for me. Anyway, we'll probably go out to eat again tonight, but I'm going to eat something a lot more bland. 

 Q. Have you ever had a situation like that before where you felt so terrible?
 SCOTT VERPLANK: Oh, yeah.

 Q. And played similar?
 SCOTT VERPLANK: No, I can't say that I've felt so terrible and shot that good, but I've played, as I said, quite a few times. Maybe, like I said, I was more concentrating on putting one foot in front of the next one to get through the hole. Sometimes the faster you get the ball in the hole, the less time it takes to play. So that was good. 

 Q. How long did it take you to feel better? Did you have anything to eat this morning?
 SCOTT VERPLANK: Yeah, I ate a little bit this morning. You know, I have to eat something being diabetic and all that, so I've got a few extra things that I've got to factor in there. Hopefully I'm going to feel better at about 4:00 or 5:00 when I wake up from about a two- or three-hour nap. 

 Q. At one point I think there were 50 guys on the course and 38 of them were under par. Not surprised, surprised, that the scores are low today? 
 SCOTT VERPLANK: You know, honestly, last year is the first time I ever played here, and I didn't kind of -- I struggled with the course a little bit, didn't know it. I didn't think the golf course was that easy. I mean, I guess -- I don't think it is easy, but I guess guys read the greens good, and the greens are perfect. I mean, the golf course is in fabulous shape. Two of the par-5s are gettable by just about everybody. 
 You know, I guess, like I said, I was a little disappointed to look up there and see Stricker 8-under par. But you know what, the guy is a heck of a player, so I guess you're going to have to keep making birdies to keep up here. Like I said, I didn't think it was that easy, but these guys -- I think the conditions just are so good that you can make putts left and right if you get the speed. 
 JOHN BUSH: Let's go through the card real quick. The eagle on No. 2.
 SCOTT VERPLANK: Like I said, I hit a 5-wood like 12 feet.
 Short par-4, drove it up by the green and had a pretty tough chip, got it about ten feet and made that.
 6th hole, I hit a 7-iron about three feet.
 7th hole, I was up 75 yards from the pin in two and I hit it about three feet. 
 Bogey, I drove it in the rough on 15 and was kind of in between clubs, and I went with a little more club and caught a little bit of a jumper, hit it over the green and then just kind of made a mess of it. Never really even sniffed making a par there. 
 And then, you know what, I got a couple breaths in my body, I guess. I hit a really nice shot on 17, hit a 9-iron about three feet.
 And then 18, I had to lay up because I hit my drive a little too far left and hit it about eight or ten feet behind the hole, and it went in. 
 JOHN BUSH: Enjoy that nap this afternoon, and play well again tomorrow. 
 SCOTT VERPLANK: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT