RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 25, 2009
Scott Verplank
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Scott, is this course playing as easy as it can right now?  
 SCOTT VERPLANK: Well, being soft like this, yeah. Some of the holes obviously are playing a little bit longer, but in general, some guys are hitting it so far that lengths doesn't matter, but greens are very receptive. And surprisingly, they're putting pretty good. They're rolling pretty decently.   
 So yeah, no wind, soft conditions, scores are going to be low.   
  
  Q. What's the mood amongst the players right now? How optimistic are you that you guys think you can get some golf in here the next couple days?  
 SCOTT VERPLANK: Well, I don't know. You'd have to ask the weather man that, because I don't know what the forecast is.   
 If you've been out here long enough, you're used to this. There's no reason to get all worked up about it because there's nothing you can do about it.   
 I think everybody wants to play 72 holes and get a good tournament in. This is a big tournament for me, so we'd just like to do it the right way, and if we have to stay here a little longer to get it done the right way, then so be it.   
  
  Q. Did you enjoy playing in the biggest gallery of this tournament with Mike Weir?  
 SCOTT VERPLANK: Oh, yeah. Absolutely. I always enjoy that.   
 Yeah, the crowd was good. Obviously they're behind Weir, and they should be. He's done a lot for Canadian golf, and since I actually won this tournament one time, they at least kind of know me, know my name, so I didn't have anybody heckling me. They were pulling for me a little bit, too.   
  
  Q. What happened on 18 there?  
 SCOTT VERPLANK: I don't know. You'd have to ask Mike.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible).  
 SCOTT VERPLANK: Oh, yeah. This is a national championship, you know, and I've won it one time. So obviously it's one of my favorite tournaments. Any time you win a tournament you kind of grow fond of them, so yeah, I like playing up here, and I love the crowds, and I've done well.   
  
  Q. Scott, nice playing. 7-under and 5-under, 12-under through 36.   
 SCOTT VERPLANK: Yeah. You can add pretty good.   
 Yeah, I played well. The last couple tournaments I've played better, and so far it's kind of bled into this week. So still playing pretty good.   
  
  Q. Have you ever used any other putter than that you have there?  
 SCOTT VERPLANK: Oh, yeah. I have. I switch, but every time I switch and monkey around for a month or so, I always come back to that thing. I just kind of know where it's going to go, so I feel pretty good with it.   
  
  Q. It looks like it's working this week.   
 SCOTT VERPLANK: So far, so good.   
  
  Q. Keep it up.   
 SCOTT VERPLANK: All right. Thanks.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible).  
 SCOTT VERPLANK: It's wet. That little storm we had late last night or late in the evening, I didn't realize how much it rained.   
 It was really wet. There was three or four holes where there was no way to get out of casual water, and that's why we were playing it up.   
 On the very first hole I wanted to drop it over in the trees and get out of the casual water. Obviously I'm not going to do that. But it's very wet.  
  
  Q. We've been talking about patience this week, and with stopping and starting and this afternoon doesn't look good and you're going to have to turn around. You're used to that, but it's been more this week than usual.   
 SCOTT VERPLANK: It is. The last one I played in was the John Deere, and that was kind of the same way. We were playing 36 on Sunday.   
 I'm a little older than most of these guys playing, so hopefully I have a little more patience. That will definitely help for the next few rounds.  
  
  Q. We watched Watson last week at 59. Now you don't feel quite as old anymore?  
 SCOTT VERPLANK: Yeah. When a guy almost 60 years old should have won the British, can't use that excuse anymore. I've heard that a couple times this week.   
  
  Q. With the rain, with the soft conditions, how aggressive at the halfway point are you going to have to be for the rest of the tournament?  
 SCOTT VERPLANK: Well, if it stays like this and we keep playing it up and stays receptive, you're going to have to make birdies. There's a lot of low scores.   
 The golf course is in good shape, and there's no wind blowing either, so without any wind and everything really soft, guys are going to hit it close and make putts.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT