TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 28, 2009
Scott Verplank
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Scott, first of all, congratulations, 62 today. Great final round. 
 SCOTT VERPLANK: Yeah. You know, I played very well. I made a couple of little bit longer putts than I've been making this week on 17 and on the 8th hole, but other than that, other than a couple of little six or eight footers that I missed for birdie early on, I actually knocked those in today. 

 Q. Could you tell when you were standing on the fairway at 18 that the approach shot that you hit in, you nearly jarred it? It hit right exactly at the hole. 
 SCOTT VERPLANK: Well, I knew it was good. I was a little surprised it got past the hole, but maybe that was just because I was excited, but yeah, you know what. The hole is playing totally different, totally long. This north wind makes the golf course play a little tougher, I think. It definitely does coming in. 17 and 18 are much more demanding holes when you're back into the little 15 miles an hour wind. So I'm happy?

 Q. I was going to ask you about that. What can your round tell us about what the leaders are going to be facing in the next couple hours?
 SCOTT VERPLANK: Well, you know, 15 is what it is. There are going to be big swings there, but the longer guys can get there. I couldn't get there, but long guys can.
 16 is your last really good birdie opportunity. Playing down wind. The pin's in a pretty accessible front spot. And then 17 and 18, you know, are with the wind in your face, they're a little more difficult holes. 

 Q. Thank you for are your time, Scott. 

 Q. Congratulations. Low scores are out there. 
 SCOTT VERPLANK: Yeah. Well, we had so much rain. Obviously the greens are soft. They still putt pretty smooth. They're not overly fast. I usually prefer the greens to be a little bit faster, but finally on the fourth day I kind of found the speed and it worked out okay. 

 Q. Are the conditions where they can really attack the course?
 SCOTT VERPLANK: Oh, yeah. I think so. You know, this golf course is short enough that I can do the same. If it's at Bethpage or Firestone or wherever and it plays long and wet and hard, you know, it's pretty hard to attack with a 5-wood in your hand or a 3-wood, you know, par-4s. But this golf course, if you hit the shots, you can shoot scores. There's always been some good scores here. 

 Q. You shot a 61 here a few years ago. What were you thinking? Were you aware that you were that close to the course record again?
 SCOTT VERPLANK: Yeah. I knew if I birdied the last hole. I was kind of hoping I would. I knew I'd shot 61 here a few years ago, so obviously you know, I can get it going on this golf course. 
 To be quite honest with you, it's been a tough time for me being the week after the U.S. Open, and I've been in the Open the last 10 or 12 years and I'm dead. I'm toast the week after. So I missed the Open this year, came here. I'm happy to be back. I think I'll probably keep this on my schedule for a little longer. I'd like to because this golf course suits me really good. 

 Q. Did you have a number in mind at all? There's still low numbers from guys behind you. 
 SCOTT VERPLANK: You know what, I have been struggling most of this year and I have been playing pretty good the last couple months, but getting absolutely nothing out of it. Walking off the golf course kind of frustrated, shot the highest score I could possibly shoot. But you know what, today I did good enough, got out of the way and actually got close to the score I should have shot. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT