EDS BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
April 24, 2008
Scott Verplank
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Scott, difficult day on a difficult golf course in these windy conditions. 
 SCOTT VERPLANK: Yeah, it's playing pretty tough. The wind was really blowing, I don't know, probably 20 to 30 miles an hour at times. You know, any course is tough in those conditions. It is a little more than -- it played a little bit harder than I thought it was going to.

 Q. You've always impressed me as a patient veteran out here. This was a day when you needed patience?
 SCOTT VERPLANK: Yeah, I wish I would have had some. That would have been great (laughter). But yeah, the way the weather is, the way the wind is blowing, you know, the greens are new, so you're not real familiar with how they're breaking and where necessarily to hit it and land it and all that. Patience would probably be pretty good today.

 Q. As defending champion were there many distractions for you this week before the tournament began?
 SCOTT VERPLANK: No, I wouldn't say any of them were distractions. I got to do a lot of neat things. I'd like to do it every time.

 Q. A lot of golf left this week. 
 SCOTT VERPLANK: Yeah, I played a little bit better on my second nine holes. I'm not far from playing good, I just have to make some putts. 

 Q. Did you come here and play before this week?
 SCOTT VERPLANK: No, just really haven't had time. I thought about coming down one time, but I had some time at home and it's pretty hard to pry me out of the house.

 Q. The new house?
 SCOTT VERPLANK: Yeah, exactly, or the old one or anything else.

 Q. What's your impression of the course?
 SCOTT VERPLANK: You know, I think it's better. I mean, it looks a lot better. Obviously the conditions are much better. Honestly, I think it's going to continue to improve over the next year or two. You know, it's so new that from a playing standpoint, it's a little inconsistent because the greens are very firm and you get some kind of funny bounces or whatever. But it's better than last year, but at this point I don't like it as much as last year (laughter). But it's going to end up being a whole lot better, I think.

 Q. How tough is it to read the greens when you don't know what their tendency is to do?
 SCOTT VERPLANK: Well, it's definitely tougher. I've been playing this golf course for 20 years, so I pretty much have seen every pin placement and hit darn near every shot you can hit out here, and now all of a sudden I'm back starting from zero on a lot of that stuff. You know, I wish they would have waited a few more years (laughter). 

 Q. Do you like some of the things that they did do? Are there some things that you can look at and really appreciate the changes? 
 SCOTT VERPLANK: Yeah, I don't know. You're going to pinpoint --

 Q. No, you can just say no. 
 SCOTT VERPLANK: No, nothing yet, but I'm still trying to figure it out. I'm still trying to figure it out, and it's a lot of the same sight lines, but I'm still trying to figure out how to play the golf course. 
 Like I said, I had 20 years of pretty much knowing how to play the other one, and now it's like going back to a new course, and generally, at my stage of my career and my age, I usually don't go to new golf courses much anymore. It takes a few years to get to know how to play them.

 Q. I think Johnson Wagner said there's a lot of slopes that really aren't visible out there?
 SCOTT VERPLANK: Yeah, like I said, it's going to take a little bit of getting used to. But guys are going to play good, and somebody is going to win and some other guys are going to play pretty good. So it's there. I don't think it was as hard as I made it, but with the wind blowing it's a little bit more difficult than the other setup.

 Q. You're still within reach of the lead, though. 
 SCOTT VERPLANK: Well, hopefully the wind will pick up another 10 or 20 miles an hour (laughter). It was blowing pretty hard. It was really ripping going back up towards the clubhouse. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT