NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 16, 2008
Scott Verplank
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  How is it playing out there? 
 SCOTT VERPLANK:  Really tough.  The greens are really fast.  Being dried out, the golf course is pretty tough. 
 They are a little bumpy and like I said, they are so fast, faster than normal here because it's so dry.  Fast and bumpy is a tough combo sometimes.  You know, pretty challenging. 

 Q.  Is this your third event of the year? 
 SCOTT VERPLANK:  Yes. 

 Q.  Working on some things a little bit from the off-season? 
 SCOTT VERPLANK:  Yes, you know, I'm okay.  I've still got a ways to go.  I'm not playing quite -- I'm scoring okay, but I've got a lot of room for improvement, but it is early in the year, and you know, try to keep going the right direction. 

 Q.  You're about six behind Phil right now, any realistic shot?  It's golf, anything can happen; how do you approach the final round, six back? 
 SCOTT VERPLANK:  You know, I'm going to have to just hit it -- if I hit it a little bit more solid with my irons tomorrow and knock in all of the short putts that I missed today; you know, if he slips up, I might have a chance. 
 But other than Tiger, he's probably the next best front-runner.  He's awful good.  So I'm going to have to play exceptionally well and probably then would need a little bit of help. 

 Q.  On 18, you got up-and-down, what did you hit?  Was that a wind issue? 
 SCOTT VERPLANK:  Yeah, I hit a 6-iron, but honestly, I thought I hit it perfect and I think the wind almost knocked it down a little bit.  Sometimes it carries it pretty good and sometimes it kind of flattens it out.  That one kind of flattened out.  I was a little shocked that it came up five yards short of the front edge. 

 Q.  Where would you put this course on your favorites? 
 SCOTT VERPLANK:  Oh, it's a great golf course.  It's just a great golf course.  Tee-to-green, it's a beautiful track.  You have to hit lots of different shots. 
 You know, they have changed it a little bit, but they haven't ruined it.  I would say that I'm not -- I haven't been all that impressed with some of the changes, but the golf course is so great.  As long as you don't do anything too major, it's a brilliant place. 
 They changed some of the greens a little bit, seemed to be a little bit out of character with Riviera but it's still great.  It's such a great place.  You know, every great golf course goes through stages of changing it and tinkering with it and all that.  It would be pretty hard to mess this one up too much. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT