CHILDREN'S MIRACLE NETWORK CLASSIC PRESENTED BY WAL-MART
November 3, 2007
Scott Verplank
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   STEWART MOORE:  I know your time is short.  Thanks for spending a few moments with us here in the interview room of the Children's Miracle Network Classic.  You got out today, you birdied two, bogies on 5 and 6, and you fall a little bit behind.  But now you find yourself in the lead heading into tomorrow.   
 SCOTT VERPLANK:  You know what, nobody really did anything up at the top.  I didn't play that well.  Stephen played pretty good for a while.  He bogeyed the last couple of holes.   
 But this golf course is still playing really long, which makes it much harder to hit it close, which you occasionally need to do to make a bunch of birdies.  S.   
 O, you know, the good news is, I guess, I'm still near the top, tied for the lead.  But there's got to be 30 guys that have a chance to win, I guess.  I haven't seen the scoreboard, but if 13 under is leading, I don't know how far back you can go.  But if you go out and really shoot a low score tomorrow.   
 STEWART MOORE:  I think 8 under is tied for 20th.  Then it goes back to 30.   
  
  Q.  You were three shots behind leaving the 14th hole, finished with all pars and wound up tied for the lead.  Is that usually what happens here?   
 SCOTT VERPLANK:  No, I birdied 15.  Get your facts straight.  That's garbage (laughing).   
  
  Q.  Here we go.   
 SCOTT VERPLANK:  You know what, I did birdie 15.  But, hey, the way they screwed up 16, 17 and 18, they're hard holes now.  They're hard par holes.  I guess not that there's anything wrong with that, but they don't fit the rest of the golf course because of that.  So they're, you know, those are difficult holes just to make pars on now.   
 I can see the scenario you were talking about becoming more common around here versus having to birdie the last three holes.   
  
  Q.  If I get my facts straight?   
 SCOTT VERPLANK:  Yeah, once you get your facts straight.   
  
  Q.  I was going to ask you about those last three holes.  It used to be the guy with the most holes left out here had the advantage.  Now you're trying to get off without spitting on your shirt right there towards the end.   
 SCOTT VERPLANK:  Hey, 15 is still a pretty good 200-yard par 3.  But with the tees back where they have them now on those last three holes, like I said, they don't fit the rest of the golf course.  17 is a pretty tough hole.  It doesn't fit any part of this property.   
  
  Q.  It's almost across the street.   
 SCOTT VERPLANK:  Yeah, it's basically 490, 500 yards today on the back.  Pretty hard hole.  Anybody would be happy with a par on any of those.  You know, 18's a much longer hole now, especially when the ball plugs.  You go along until you get some chances to make birdies.  Then all of a sudden, you have to go into a different mode on the last three or four holes.   
  
  Q.  You're 1 over on the front nine, 8 under on the back?   
 SCOTT VERPLANK:  I can't explain anything.  I just know I believe you.  I don't know.  I can't -- I can't tell you that.  I don't know why that is.   
  
  Q.  Just talk about your position going into tomorrow.   
 SCOTT VERPLANK:  Well, I'm going to have to play a lot better tomorrow than I did today.  At least score better.  But, you know, like I said, there were a few guys that had a chance to get out today.   
 And, you know, nobody pulled play away.  So I don't know, it's hard to pick.  Depends on how hard the wind is blowing.  You know, if you play the ball up or down.  If they have all the tees back.  It's a totally different golf course than it's been than what you guys are used to reporting on.  And I'm use d to playing on.  So I don't know.  We'll see.   
 I would still have to shoot 4, 5 or 6 under par to have a chance.  Anybody know the weather forecast for tomorrow?   
  
  Q.  Nice.   
 SCOTT VERPLANK:  Better?  20 to 30 out of the north?   
  
  Q.  Given all that could have, should have, would have, if they play the tees back, and you have to play the ball down.  Are we looking at maybe the highest score here that's been recorded in a while?   
 SCOTT VERPLANK:  I don't know what the highest score recorded in a while, yeah.  If they play the ball down and play the tees back, it's still pretty much a mud fest out there on about half the holes.  About half of them are fine, and half, 17, 18, 16, 9, all the real long ones, they're all just slop on the fairways.  So if you're back there hitting a 3-iron or 4-iron with mud all over your ball.   
  
  Q.  Do you feel like you're in the middle of a cluster, whatever that word is?   
 SCOTT VERPLANK:  Yeah.  No, I don't know.  I mean, you know what?  I haven't played as good today.  If I go out and play great tomorrow, it will feel like I'm in the lead.   
 But there are so many guys that have a chance now.  It's been kind of the golf course has neutralized a lot of people, I think, with as long as it's playing.  And as mushy as it is, and then, obviously, the wind's blowing hard, too.  Actually, a lot harder the last three days than it normally blows around here, so that's made it much more difficult.   
 STEWART MOORE:  Good luck, Scott.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT