PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2007
Scott Verplank
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Good way to finish, birdie on 18. 

 SCOTT VERPLANK:  Yeah, obviously I was kind of struggling coming down, it's so hot, you know, and when it's this hot, and you're sweating like that, it's hard to keep your focus.  Felt like I just wanted to get done, SO that was the easiest way to get done in as few shots as possible. 

 Q.  What do you take out of this week for yourself? 

 SCOTT VERPLANK:  Oh, you know what, I guess I take -- personally I take out of that I guess I need to get in better shape.  Because you know what, I just haven't been able to stay at a consistent level for four days that I feel like I need to. 

 You know, I actually played -- I hit it better today at times, but just didn't play near as good yesterday and today as I did the first two days.  So, I guess I need to figure that out if I'm ever going to have any kind of shot at winning a tournament like this.  My window is probably getting smaller, /PU I've still got a few more chances. 

 So I'll take a lot from it.  It was great to play here.  The crowds have been awesome.  I love the support.  You know, yesterday, it was -- I mean, it was at worse 50/50 the first eight or ten holes until I could hold up my end of the deal, which was great.  I think it's probably pretty rare when you hear other names besides Tiger when you're playing with Tiger. 

 Q.  Is there anything you would differently over the last couple of days? 

 SCOTT VERPLANK:  Yeah, just play a little bit better. 

 No, I mean, you know what, unfortunately I did the best I could.  I just wasn't quite good enough. 

 Q.  Do you feel like it was the grind from the heat that just eventually took its toll, or maybe was there a point where the ball-striking just wasn't there anymore? 

 SCOTT VERPLANK:  Well, yesterday I just played poorly and I could get away with kind of an average day probably, but I can't get away with a poor day at this level. 

 You know, Tiger can get away with an average day.  That's where we all would like to get. 

 But, no, I think the heat is tough on everybody.  Good grief.  But it's hot every PGA no matter where we play whether it's Atlanta or Detroit or wherever; it's always hot.  So you've got to know that coming in. 

 Q.  This course has yielded some low scores, like your 66; what do you think of this course as a major championship venue and about the PGA coming back here? 

 SCOTT VERPLANK:  Well, I hope they come back soon.  (Laughter). 

 It's the first course to have four PGAs, so obviously it holds up pretty well.  The golf course, a lot of different players can play it; long, short, you know, got to be straight.  It's a great golf course.  It's fantastic. 

 So I think it kind of speaks for itself. 

 Q.  Still a positive experience for you? 

 SCOTT VERPLANK:  Oh, yeah, you know what, having all of these people out here and, you know, having all my family and a lot of friends, absolutely.  Having all of these people here and you know, cheering for you, it's pretty cool. 

 Q.  Does that make a memory for you, as well, one of these that you kind of hang onto even though you don't win the tournament, just a positive experience? 

 SCOTT VERPLANK:  No, it's a positive experience that so many people in this area came out and were supportive of me.  You know, that means a lot to me. 

 I've even had guys wearing OU hats pulling for me, that's pretty tough to do.  Yeah, it's great.  It's definitely been a positive experience.  I had a great time.  Sorry I didn't play a little bit better.  But I'm done. 

 Q.  How much now do you look forward to the Presidents Cup? 

 SCOTT VERPLANK:  Oh, I'm looking forward to it.  I've been wanting to -- I like to make all these team deals.  I think I'm a great team player.  I think I'm a great teammate.  Whether I am or not, that remains to be seen. 

 I'm looking forward to it, get to spend a week with Jack, get to spend a week with Tiger and Phil and Furyk and all of the guys that are on the team, all of the guys that are playing the best this year, it's a great experience. 

 Q.  What's your schedule like between now and then? 

 SCOTT VERPLANK:  Well, I'm going to take a week off next week, and then I'll play New York and then I'll see how it goes from there. 

 Q.  Did you do anything different to control the heat? 

 SCOTT VERPLANK:  Just trying to stay on top of it. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT