PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 7, 2007
Scott Verplank
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   KELLY ELBIN:  Oklahoma resident and Oklahoma State All-American, Scott Verplank joining us at the 89th PGA Championship.  This is Scott's 14th appearance in PGA Championship.  His best finish tie for 7th at the Atlanta Athletic Club in 2001.   
 Scott, thanks for joining us at the golf course.  Some thoughts on what you've seen out there so far.   
 SCOTT VERPLANK: The golf course was perfect.  The superintendent here I think in conjunction with Kerry Haigh from the PGA of America, they've got it perfect.  Golf course is as good as I've seen it.  Hopefully the weather won't beat it down too bad, and it will play like it has a chance to.   
 KELLY ELBIN:  Open it up for questions.   
  
  Q.  Scott, you'll be a local favorite obviously being in Tulsa, what are your chances to win your first major here at Southern Hills this week?   
 SCOTT VERPLANK: I don't know, Bob.  I'm hoping that Tiger still doesn't like the course (laughter).  He's obviously playing pretty well.   
 But if I play good, if I feel good all week, swing at it like I've been showing signs of and the golf course sets up very well for me, you know, definitely if I play my game at an upper level, then I feel like I'll have a chance.   
 Now, I guess if I play at my upper level and Tiger plays at his upper level, I don't know if I'll have a chance.  But I might.   
  
  Q.  How often have you played here and what kind of advantage does that give you, and also are there any similarities with Colonial?   
 SCOTT VERPLANK: Yes, actually the golf course is a lot like Colonial with in big trees you have to work the ball  and the greens are similar.  This is a little longer.   
 But I played -- I played the golf course 20, 25 times and I played the U.S. Open here.  I played half a dozen times in college.  I've played it a few other times, maybe 20 times.  But I know it well enough where I kind of can see the shots that you need to hit to play around here.  But it's certainly not a home-course advantage.   
 But like I said, the golf course is great.  I think it's going to hold up well and it's going to give a lot of people a chance to win the golf tournament, I think.   
 KELLY ELBIN:  For the record, Scott tied for 22nd at the U.S. Open in 2001 here at Southern Hills.   
  
  Q.  What do you attribute to your play the last five or six years, consistency, other than being healthy?   
 SCOTT VERPLANK: Well, steroids have played a big part (laughter)  I'm sure hoping they don't pass that deal too quick (laughter).   
 No, really, honestly, that's it.  My health has been better.  And I'm closer to playing like I did as a kid as a collegian before I got hurt and before my health got a little tougher for me to handle.   
 So honestly, I've been a good player -- I'm not -- I've been a good player for a long time but I've had a lot of things get in the way that made the road a little bumpy.  So honestly, if I'm healthy now, I can play as good or better than I ever have.  So I'm enjoying it.  I'm trying to, anyway.  And I'm looking forward to this week.   
  
  Q.  Is anybody talking about the Presidents Cup or has it been sort of buried in the FedExCup propaganda?   
 SCOTT VERPLANK: I didn't know there was a Presidents Cup.  (Laughter) Yes.  Honestly, I think there's only room for one Cup a year, you know, because the Presidents Cup has not got a whole lot of press or talk or anything.   
 And it's a goal of mine, just because I want it.  It's a pretty neat deal to get to represent your country, do all that stuff.  Get a chance to hang around with the other 10 or 11 best players from the United States, you might learn something.   
 And I think it's great.  And of course having Jack there for the week is, for a guy like me that he was in his prime when I was a kid.  So he was my idol as far as how to play and watch him.   
 So the last one I had a great time being around him.  Hopefully I'll make this one, and I'm looking forward to it.   
  
  Q.  Last week there were some quotes in Sports Illustrated, supposedly a Tour player anonymously being quoted as saying this golf course is a '70s course, too outdated not appropriate venue for a major; your thoughts on that?   
 SCOTT VERPLANK:  This one here?  I guess that guy was on some sort of steroids or something (chuckling) boy, I'll tell you what, I was playing today with Phil and Davis and Justin.  And we were on the front nine, and we all kind of looked at each other and said you'd have to search pretty far and wide to find a better golf course than this, with the conditions, the way it's set up.  Obviously could be a little cooler on the weather.  But just the layout of the golf course, the conditions it's in, I'd say right now it's second to none.   
 I don't know who said that and I don't really care.  But they're missing the boat if that's what they think.   
  
  Q.  You said a couple of moments ago, this golf course allows a lot of people an opportunity.  Wonder if you can elaborate on the traits that you think are on this course that brings a lot of people into play?   
 SCOTT VERPLANK: You're definitely going to have to hit it in the fairway.  The rough is not ridiculous like last week at Firestone but it's tough enough where you're not going to have all your options out of it.  You're going to be limited to what you can do at certain times.   
 So I think you have to hit it in the fairway, and obviously looks to me like ideally you're going to want to be putting from end of the hole.  It's definitely a ball-striker's golf course.  A guy who can curve it; you have to curve it both ways off the tee here if you play it aggressively.   
 I think it invites a whole host of players to have a chance to play well.   
 KELLY ELBIN:  Scott Verplank, thank you for a few minutes of your time.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT