STANFORD ST. JUDE CHAMPIONSHIP
June 7, 2007
Scott Verplank
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Just talk about the conditions because I mean they've been tough.   
 SCOTT VERPLANK:  Today is a very difficult day.  It wouldn't matter what golf course you were playing in what town.  This is -- the wind is blowing kind of 20 to 30 like this, it's hard.   
  
  Q.  You have to be happy to be in red numbers.  I think there's only three right now on the board.   
 SCOTT VERPLANK:  Yeah.  It was more of just -- I mean it was really  U.S. Open type stuff.  Par was a good score on every hole.  The conditions were so difficult with the wind blowing like that, very happy to shoot under par.   
  
  Q.  What was the toughest?  Gauging distance was a problem, obviously, with the different gusts.   
 SCOTT VERPLANK:  Yeah, that was it.  I haven't played here in a few years so it wasn't like this is the way they did last year.  I was guessing a little bit.   
 The second hole today was the 11th hole.  I hit a nice, solid 7-iron, thought it was going to be perfect; didn't even come close to getting to the green, probably 20 yards short of the flag.  I hit it and thought it was fine.  I looked up and went, "Oh, that ain't going to make it."   
It's a little bit of a guessing game, as far as that goes.   
  
  Q.  With the U.S. Open next week, a lot of guys said they wanted the competition; this course wouldn't give them anything leading up to it, coursewise.  I guess you are learning something this week.   
 SCOTT VERPLANK:  Patience and kind of taking what it gives you was kind of the game plan.  That's what the U.S. Open is all about.  Take it when you can get it.  They're not going to give you one.   
  
  Q.  It has been many years since you played here.  Was the U.S. Open being next week the reason you came?   
 SCOTT VERPLANK:  A couple of reasons, to be quite honest with you.  If I played last week and not this week, I wouldn't have seen my wife and kids for about a month.  I stayed at home last week and didn't play Memorial.   
 I've heard a lot of great things about the golf course since they've redone the greens and spruced it up and I'm impressed.  The golf course is a much better golf course than it was, say, last time I was here.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT