EDS BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
April 26, 2007
Scott Verplank
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Obviously you played well today, yes?   
 SCOTT VERPLANK:  I did.  I ended up playing pretty well.  You know, the first -- really about the first six or seven holes, I was on that Cottonwood, except for the 5th hole, were all dead into the teeth of the wind, and it was cold and windy.  It wasn't feeling that good after about six or seven holes because I was one over par and it was just brutal.   
 But then we kind of got to play more crosswind and downwind for a while and made a little bit more hay doing that and finished up pretty good, birdieing 16 and 17.   
  
  Q.  You've had some successes here in the past, more recently than earlier in your career.  Is there some reason for that?   
 SCOTT VERPLANK:  Well, I think it's just because I'm a better player now than I was early in my career.  But I had a great chance to win here in '05 and I lost in about a four- or five-hole playoff.   
 Just being from Dallas and being a recipient of Byron Nelson's generosity and his greatness honestly, this tournament has always meant a lot to me.  He was so great to me as a kid and all through my career.  I have the ultimate respect for him.   
  
  Q.  Does that give you a little more incentive this year, being the first year that he's not here with us?   
 SCOTT VERPLANK:  You know, I don't know if it gives me any more.  I always have a lot of incentive to try and do well.  It would be special.   
 I talked to Peggy earlier in the week and got a couple hugs from her, and I asked her if she was going to be there on 18, and she says, well, I don't know; I don't want to in any way, shape or form looking like I'm taking Byron's place.  I told her, if I happen to be doing any good coming down to the end, I want you there.   
 Byron is very special to me and Peggy is, also.   
  
  Q.  You started the year well at Hope and things --   
 SCOTT VERPLANK:  Yeah, I haven't really played very good this year.  I've just been kind of struggling with a little bit of a shoulder tendonitis-type deal.  But I show signs of getting over that.   
 You know, and today, the conditions were very tough today, but I was actually very pleased with how I ended up hitting it.  You know, I think I hit every green on the back nine once it kind of warmed up, so that made it a little bit -- I shot 3-under on the back, so that made it a little more scorable.  Hopefully I'll continue that kind of action.   
  
  Q.  Do you think it was just the turning with the wind and warming up a little bit that got you going?   
 SCOTT VERPLANK:  Yeah, I think -- hey, like I said, the first five, six, seven holes except for the 5th hole were all dead into the wind, and when the wind is blowing a good 20, 25, and it's still kind of cold and our TOUR staff didn't take into consideration the direction of the wind apparently.  Those are hard golf holes.  That's a tough start.  I'm hitting 3-wood into the 1st hole, so that's -- that makes it difficult to make a whole lot of birdies.   
  
  Q.  Any big putts?   
 SCOTT VERPLANK:  Well, I made about a 25-footer on the 8th hole for my first birdie, and that got me back to even.  Then I made a couple of -- I made a nice par putt on 9, and I made about a 15-footer on 10.  I just kind of -- and then 16 it was about eight feet, and 17 I hit a really nice shot right behind the hole about probably 15 feet and made that.  I had a couple go in, which is always helpful.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT