BOB HOPE CHRYSLER CLASSIC
January 19, 2007
Scott Verplank
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Thanks for joining us for a few minutes.  I know it was kind of cold out there so I'm sure you want to go get warm.  Just talk about the conditions over there, it is starting to get windy over here, never really got warm and it looks like you shot 4-under on the front and even par on the back.  Just talk about how you played and the conditions.   
 SCOTT VERPLANK:  Well, you know, when I left home and came out here, I thought I was headed to Palm Springs, but I think I ended up in like Seattle or something, terrible.   
 I played pretty good.  The weather, it wasn't as windy.  It was still kind of cold and I was thinking it wasn't very good but making the turn on the 10th tee, the wind picked up to 20 miles an hour and the temperature dropped another ten degrees and the back nine was pretty rugged over here.  I would assume it's windy everywhere.  This is not the great Palm Springs weather.   
  
  Q.  So would that explain that you got off to a really good start and then kind of leveled off the rest of the round?   
 SCOTT VERPLANK:  Well, yeah, to a certain degree.  I missed a couple of pretty short, a couple 5-footers, one for birdie, one for par.  That would have made a nice difference and then I lipped out from about eight feet on the last hole.   
 So yeah, the weather, just totally different conditions than what you're used to here.  Like here at Bermuda Dunes, I've never played the 18th hole where I couldn't get the green in two. It wasn't even close; I hit driver, 3-wood and I was still 30 yards short of the front of the green.  Normally it's some sort of long iron or a 5-wood.  Little different golf course and particularly when the wind started to strengthen.   
  
  Q.  Was it the wind that was more of a factor over there for you than the cold, or was it the wonderful combination?   
 SCOTT VERPLANK:  It was a combination.  The wind dropped and it wasn't what you come to expect out here, and frankly, one of the reasons why I like this tournament is because the weather is so good.  And I've been in bad weather for a couple of months, you come out here to see some sun and sharpen your game and get ready for the new year.   
  
  Q.  We promise it will be better next year.   
 SCOTT VERPLANK:  Oh, next year?  Thanks. (Laughing.)   
  
  Q.  Despite all that, you're still right at the top of the leaderboard or one behind Justin maybe.  You still obviously must be satisfied with your position?   
 SCOTT VERPLANK:  Oh, yeah, you know, I played as hard as I could today, and like I said, you know, you like to leave the golf course thinking you got everything out of your round and I didn't today but with conditions tough like today, I'm just happy to be done.   
 JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Scott.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT