U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 11, 2014
Scott Verplank
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Scott, yesterday you putted well.  Was it a little bit reversed today or how did it go on the day?  SCOTT VERPLANK: I don't know.  You know, I just have no idea where I'm going to hit the golf ball.  I got the driver yips or something.  Hit drivers -- I hit it for two days places I haven't ever been in, you know, for 25 years.  So, I don't know. Like I said, my golf game is not very good and I don't know -- you know, I'm going to have to figure out a way to play if I want to keep playing because whatever I'm doing isn't working.   Q.  (Inaudible)?  SCOTT VERPLANK: I hit it 80 yards right rough off the tee on the next hole.  I don't know -- I can't explain it, really.  I can't explain it.  The only explanation I have is since I had wrist surgery I still hit it like I'm hurt and, you know, I don't really want to play like that. Unless I can get it figured out where I can drive the ball reasonably straight like I used to, you know, golf is no fun.  Actually -- putted pretty good, really.  Every now and then I hit a decent iron shot, not very many but I don't know. I gave my driver away after I hit in the woods again on 18.  I won't have to mess with that one anymore.   Q.  Scott, does that mean you just won't play for awhile until you're ready to go?  SCOTT VERPLANK: You know what, I've tried everything.  I've tried not playing, I've tried working hard.  I don't know.  I guess I'll just have to figure that out because -- you know, like I told my wife, I didn't play for awhile because I told my wife I'm not playing any good around here so I don't know what makes me -- you know, it's harder to go out on the road, you know, in tournament atmosphere and play good if you're not practicing or playing good at home. So, I don't know yet.  I'm sure there's an answer out there.  I just don't know what it is yet.  We'll see.  No telling.  Maybe I'll go to the next Champions Tour event which is in I don't know, a few weeks, maybe feel better.  I don't know.   Q.  Have you had anyone helping you?  SCOTT VERPLANK: I've had two people in the last couple of months trying to help me.  I've had -- I asked for advice from Randy Smith and E.J. Fister who is here and they're both good friends and know what they're talking about. My body just does not -- my body is like rejecting me playing golf is basically what it's like.  So, I mean -- the things that I can do well or have done well, you know, or practiced to do well, my body just won't do it. Once you get in a tournament -- Jeff was a great example.  Jeff played really good the last two days.  But he just was on automatic.  That's how you have to be when you play good.  You kind of go -- doesn't mean you're going to hit every shot perfect, doesn't mean you're going to shoot great scores.  You're in the flow, automatic.  No surprises.  Very few surprises. Jeff hit a couple bad shots but not -- but, you know, nothing that was just like shocking.  That's how -- when you play good, when guys out here at this level play good, they got control of the ball or you wouldn't be at this level if you didn't have good control of the ball. I got no control of the ball.  Until I figure that out, I don't think I'm going to do very well.   Q.  What will you be doing now?  SCOTT VERPLANK: I don't know.  Hadn't thought about it.  I guess we'll have a pool party at the house or something.   Q.  What time?  SCOTT VERPLANK: I'll send you a text.   Q.  When you hit that driver on 6, was that on the center?  You played like your wrist turned.  Is it hurting or --  SCOTT VERPLANK: No.  I mean, no.  You know, I don't know.  I can't explain it other than -- obviously my head and my body are not coordinated to play golf. Like I said, the only way right now that I can explain it is my body is saying we're not doing this.  So, I don't know how else to explain it to be honest with you.  I've hit it -- when I was hurt, I've hit it really bad and then I was finally bad enough where I went and had my major elbow surgery 20 years ago but up until I had this wrist, you know, I've -- I hit the ball really pretty nice, straight, had control.  If I putted good, I played good. I'm not anywhere near that now.  So, I don't know.  I don't really know even where to start right now.  If you got any suggestions I'll probably try them.  We'll see.  I mean, you know, it's not the end of the world.   Q.  Scott, what do you think about the course and how it's going to play for these guys today and through the weekend?  SCOTT VERPLANK: Well, it probably will play a little bit tougher this afternoon for these guys just because the wind -- the wind blew a little bit yesterday but today it's picking up out of the normal southwest.  It's dry.  The golf course is perfect. I've never seen the greens this good, fairways are carpet.  I think they did a fantastic job.  The USGA set the parameters just right of what they wanted to get and Josh Cook and his crew here got there and I don't know how you could be any happier with the golf course than it is.  It's spectacular.   Q.  Scott, yesterday was frustrating.  Was it your emotion?  Is that true and that was heightened by being in your first senior event on your home course, all of that sort of rolled in there?  SCOTT VERPLANK: You know what, I would be despondent if I was playing in the Portugal 3-ball right now playing like this.  Yeah, it's worse.  Not worse.  I love being here, it's great to be at home.  It's great having all the people out.  The fans are awesome.  Played with a couple good guys, you know, in the group. I just -- I would be, you know -- I don't know what to do.  Throw my clubs in the lake?  That's not going to really help me any.  I just have to figure out what I got to do next.   Q.  Scott, I guess if you knew that you would have made a 30-foot putt on your final hole yesterday and drained a good one here and beat one of your playing partners by 27 shots, you would have thought you had been a little different, huh?  SCOTT VERPLANK: I never thought about it like that but, you know, I don't know.  It's not good  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT