BUICK CHAMPIONSHIP
June 30, 2006
Scott Verplank
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Scott, for joining us for a few minutes here in the media center at the Buick Championship.  6 under for the first two days.  I'm sure it's getting a little tougher out there.  I know you played under windy conditions yesterday afternoon and it's getting hot.  I don't know if the greens are going to dry out.
SCOTT VERPLANK:  Boy, I hope so.  It will probably dry out and it will be more typical afternoon conditions today.  The wind is blowing a little bit and the greens are getting a little bumpier.  It was really good.  The first nine holes or so was there for the taking.  I just kind of had a couple of little mess ups, made some bogeys, but played okay.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Questions, please.
Q.  Nobody seems to be eating it up or anything.  Is there any particular reason why that is?
SCOTT VERPLANK:  I mean, there's still a chance some guys will eat it up.  I'm just    I hope that I'm within a fair distance of whatever the lead is at the end of the day.  But I don't know, I think yesterday morning this course was probably a little better than yesterday afternoon.  I don't know if we'll get that same flip flop today or not.  Sometimes one draw is a little better than the other, but I would imagine some of the guys that played well yesterday morning will play well this afternoon.
Q.  Is the rough particularly tougher than normal?
SCOTT VERPLANK:  Well, you know, I really can't answer that.
Q.  You've been in every fairway?
SCOTT VERPLANK:  I missed one fairway, and I was right up next to the green on 15.  So I was chipping.  That was a tough lie.  But that was the only real rough I've been in.

The greens here have a lot of subtle breaks in them.  They use some tricky little pins where you're right on the crown, so if you're just a little bit off, you know, the ball tends to go away from the hole.  I think that makes it a little tougher to get the ball in close to the hole with iron shots.  And then when the pins are kind of on crowns, they are a little tougher to read on a putt.  I think that has something to do with it.  Other than that, I can't answer.
Q.  Did you see any appreciable difference in the conditions you played in yesterday versus today?  Was the wind soft or no wind at all?
SCOTT VERPLANK:  No, unfortunately it started blowing right about when we started.  Different direction, though, totally different direction.  So the holes yesterday that were very difficult into that wind are more downwind today.  It changed the golf course a little bit.  But the course is in good shape.  It's dried out.  It's really nice.  I'm impressed with how dry it is, not that it's real dry, but generally you would expect to be slogging around in the mush this week, if you had the amount of rain that this area has had leading up to this.
Q.  (No microphone.)
SCOTT VERPLANK:  I guess, if that's what it is, that's the ticket.  They ought to get some sort of patent on that.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Let's go through your birdies and bogeys.  You birdied 11.
SCOTT VERPLANK:  11, I hit 9 iron about three feet.

Bogey on 13, that was a good one.  I was perfect after two shots and just had a little chip shot up the green basically and I hit it a little too hard and it went just off the back.  And then I had another relatively easy chip shot I was thinking I might be able to make.  I hit it a little hard and it went four or five feet past.  And then I missed that.  All of a sudden I turned what should have been a good chance to make birdie into a bogey.

15, I drove it just short of the green and chipped up to two feet.

18, I just hit it just short of the green into    that was a pretty straightforward up and down and I just    the chip came up about six feet short and I hit kind of a sorry putt.

2, I hit sand wedge about a foot.

4, I three putted.  I hit it into the wind.  I left my approach kind of short and putted up about four or five feet and missed that.

Birdie on 9, I hit a nice drive and sand wedge about probably eight or nine feet, knocked that one in there.
Q.  (Talk about the humidity or lack of.)
SCOTT VERPLANK:  Well, I would imagine it's going to help the golf course dry out faster since it's not as humid today and the wind is kind of blowing out of the northwest, which is usually a much dryer wind.  As far as like myself, I like it hot.  When you start getting older, you like it being hot versus cold.  It was fine.  The hardest part is when you've got to get up at 4:45 or whatever to go and play golf.  That's when it's a job.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT