BOB HOPE CHRYSLER CLASSIC
January 22, 2006
Scott Verplank
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TODD BUDNICK:  We thank Scott Verplank, runner-up at the 2006 Bob Hope Chrysler Classic for coming in.  Scott, a difficult day, for most of the group actually it seemed.
SCOTT VERPLANK:  Yeah, none of us played any good to be honest with you.  You know, the wind picked up, the golf course changes immensely.  I was just a little quick.  I don't know whether it was the wind or nerves or whatever it was.  I was just a little quick and I didn't hit the ball near as well, particularly with my irons, as I have the previous day.

Yesterday, I hit the ball beautifully.  Today, I didn't have it very good.  And the way our group was, it was a matter of survival.
TODD BUDNICK:  There's obviously disappointment, but it's your first event of the year and you said you didn't practice a lot over the off-season to give yourself time to heal, and you start off the season still with a second place finish.
SCOTT VERPLANK:  Yeah, obviously I'm going to -- I'm disappointed I didn't give myself a better chance to win, but I'm sure sometime next week I'll say -- I'll start pulling some positive from it.

I guess I just need to go back and work on finishing it off.  What I've done mentally to prepare for this year I think has been correct and to get off to a -- like you said, good start, very first week out of the shoot without physically preparing that much, I am happy with that.
Q.  When did you really start feeling the effects of the wind?  It was pretty calm early and then it just picked up along the way, I guess.
SCOTT VERPLANK:  Yeah, we played four or five holes without the wind.  You know, it just started slowly picking up, and by the time we got to about 6 or 7, it was reaching full gale force and stayed pretty strong the rest of the day.
Q.  The second shot on 15, I think you were in the right rough, real squirrely shot out of there that came out real short, was that --
SCOTT VERPLANK:  What's 15?
Q.  Short little par 4.
SCOTT VERPLANK:  Oh, no, I just hit a bad -- I had an L-wedge.  I was trying to step on it a little bit, and like I said, I was just a little bit off today.  I guess not as relaxed as I needed to be, and I just missed it a little bit.  It hit on the side, just on the short-side, which you can't do.  I hit a beautiful pitch shot from down there, a 1 in 100 shot about three feet and I missed the putt.  That was a nice way to sum it up.

I had a chance to save myself, and I didn't do it and that's kind of how I played all day.
Q.  You were close the whole time, and probably until even at that moment, is there a level of frustration to know that there's a winnable tournament there?
SCOTT VERPLANK:  Oh, yeah.  If I played any good today, I would have had a tremendous chance.  I just didn't play well.  I need to get that figured out, I guess.  I've had that a couple of times here in the last year or two.  So I need to go home and think about it, I guess, and get that figured out.

I got the other part figured out.  I just need to get that last little bit.
Q.  Is it mechanical, do you think or something else?
SCOTT VERPLANK:  I don't know.  I doubt it.  I think it's just, I want to win so bad, sometimes you just get uptight.  I don't know.  I think it's just I'm going to have to find a comfort zone.  If I can do that, I think I will reach new heights.  If I continue to struggle, struggle finishing off a tournament, I guess I'll be sitting here waiting for Chad to come in (laughter).
TODD BUDNICK:  Thank you, Scott.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT