U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 10, 2014
Scott Verplank
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  SCOTT VERPLANK: Yeah, it was fairly embarrassing, to be honest with you.  I just -- unfortunately I have not reached back to the level that I used to be and I could have shot 90 today. I actually putted great on my last 9 holes and made a long one on the last hole.  I'm going to have to be a lot different player tomorrow and the rest of the day than I was today.   Q.  Is it an injury?  SCOTT VERPLANK: I'm just injured.  I'm hitting shots like I'm hurt still.  I don't feel horrible.  Unfortunately, I've been doing that for two years.  I was sure hoping that all the hard work I put in was going to be a little bit better but it wasn't today.  Maybe it will be tomorrow.   Q.  Do you take anything positive away from the round?  SCOTT VERPLANK: I putted great on the second 9 holes, 10, 12, footers for par.  Unfortunately, they were for par, but, you know, yeah, yeah, I guess I can take away that I didn't shoot 85 or 90.   Q.  Is there anything that, I don't know if pressure is the right word, but being your own course?  SCOTT VERPLANK: No doubt.  Yeah, I mean there's no question I haven't been nervous on the first couple holes in a long time.  I was a little nervous here but I think most of that was because I really knew that I wasn't -- I wasn't ready to play good enough to, you know, play like I want to play. But we'll see.  You know what, I may get a good night's sleep and come out tomorrow and things feel better.  I know I can still play.  It's been a hard road.  I just haven't gotten back to the level that I want to be at.  So, we'll go from there.   Q.  At what point did you know in this round you weren't there?  Did you know walking to the tee?  SCOTT VERPLANK: Yeah, about a year ago.  No, I've been -- I mean I can get in a little rhythm on the range and feel okay and I go on the golf course and it's terrible.  I just -- all I know, I've been hurt a lot of times in my career and I'm hitting it like I'm hurt.  I'm going to have to fix that somehow.   Q.  When you say you're hitting it like you're hurt, is there a weakness to the shots?  SCOTT VERPLANK: I hit it short and crooked, unsolid.  I'm trying to keep a good attitude about it because otherwise I would want to go home and cry in my pillow.   Q.  You seem pretty good now.  SCOTT VERPLANK: Yeah.  Unbelievably for shooting a gazillion at my home course I actually had fun.  It's great being out here and the golf course is awesome.  It's great having people out and watching us play. Certainly I knew I'd probably be -- it's funny, you play a tournament here and I hit it in places that I have never hit it in before and I probably played here, I can't tell you how many rounds for the last 25 years. So, I kind of knew I would be in some places I've never been before.  I didn't know I would be in a place I've never been before in every hole.  That was a little shocking but we'll see. You know what, maybe in the morning I'll be little bit better.  It was a weird day for here for July with the wind blowing, you know, 15 or 20 straight out of the east, that's very odd.  That kind of took away any home course that we had as far as because it also blows this way two, three times a year and very infrequently in the summer.   Q.  Do you think it's more physical or mental at this point being hurt?  SCOTT VERPLANK: I think it's a little bit of both.  I guess the hard part is I'm thinking I'm going to have to fix it mentally because I don't know if I can get any younger or stronger or all that.  We'll see what happens.   Q.  Are you surprised those that know you that you hit a very strange tee ball and made par?  SCOTT VERPLANK: Which hole?   Q.  15.  SCOTT VERPLANK: I topped it.  Yeah.  Well, yeah, I put a 3-wood down on the dirt.  I was trying to hit a low little punch shot which you know I've been able to hit for the previous 50 years and I just -- I just not -- I just topped it. I mean literally -- well, I mean it didn't like dribble off.  It got in the air for a second.  I just hit it -- I just -- my foot was hurting, I couldn't turn, I couldn't hit through it. I'm afraid to hit it because of my wrist.  But I made a hell of a par.   Q.  Is this a case where you walk off of here when you leave tonight, do you dwell on anything, do you erase it?  SCOTT VERPLANK: No.  I'm hoping that I'll feel better tomorrow and feel a little more comfortable and see what happen  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT