WACHOVIA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 6, 2005
Scott Verplank
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
Talk about your day.
SCOTT VERPLANK:  It's a pretty tough day around here today.  The wind is really blowing.  The golf course is playing pretty hard.  I mean, some of the -- I kind of thought that some of the pins might be in a little flatter spots today, but wow, a couple of them, it didn't matter how good a putt you hit, it was going four or five feet past, and with the wind blowing and it drying out I would think it's going to get tougher as the day goes on.
Q.  What about the finish time?
SCOTT VERPLANK:  You mean how slow it's playing?  Well, it took five hours yesterday, and yesterday wasn't near the day that today is.
Q.  Tell us about that back nine.  You jump started on 10 and three in a row there?
SCOTT VERPLANK:  Yeah, I was kind of all over the place on the front nine, kind of birdie, bogey, birdie, bogey, and then I hit a couple of good shots on 10 on the front of the green and two-putted.

11, I made a nice 25-, 30-footer.  I thought I hit a little better shot than that from the fairway.

And then I chipped in on 12.

On a day like today you like it when stuff like that happens because it's pretty hard to get the ball in the hole when it's this windy and the greens are this firm and this fast.
Q.  On 17 how close -- (inaudible)?
SCOTT VERPLANK:  Well, it was probably a yard.  I thought the wind was going to be blowing it pretty hard left to right like it did yesterday, and I pulled it a little bit and it just didn't really ever move with the wind.  I mean, it landed on the green.  I guess I would have been a little surprised if it had gone in the water, but it got pretty close.
Q.  That hole is playing really hard today.  Is it the pin?
SCOTT VERPLANK:  Well, the pin is on top of a knob, so if you hit it a little past it, it's just going to roll all the way down and probably roll down to the right off the green, and if it's short it's going to roll back to the front.  It's kind of more like a deflection pin instead of one that you can get at.  Like I said, there were a few more of those today than I thought there would be.
Q.  What did you hit on 17?
SCOTT VERPLANK:  5-iron.
Q.  Where did you chip in from?
SCOTT VERPLANK:  Just front right.  The pin is kind of front left and I was kind of just off the front of the green on the right.
Q.  What makes this so hard today with the wind?  Is it off the tee, is it coming into the greens?
SCOTT VERPLANK:  The way the golf course is, the fairways are pretty firm, and it looks to me like they must have -- when they added tees around here a few years ago, whenever they did it, it kind of changed some of the angles to some of the fairways, and some of them, like 16th hole, the wind is blowing left to right and the tee kind of aims you down the right side and the fairway slopes left to right.

So it's pretty hard to start it over there in the left trees and let the wind bring it.  The fairway is so firm, you can land it in the fairway there no problem and it'll run right through it.  That's what I did.
Q.  Where do you think this leaves you by the end of the day?
SCOTT VERPLANK:  I have no idea to be honest with you.  In pretty good -- I mean, looking at the scores, just knowing how hard the golf course played, I'm pleased with where I'm at to be honest with you.  I don't think I'll be too far out of sight.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT