BIG TEN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 6, 2014
Meghan McKeown
Joe McKeown
Karly Roser
Terry Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Ohio State‑86
  Northwestern‑77

COACH MCKEOWN:   I thought it was ‑‑ you know, just a hard‑fought back‑and‑forth game.   You know, in the last two minutes, they just made a couple of extra plays and that was the difference in the game.   I'm proud of our team.   You know, we really fought hard today.   We just you know ‑‑ I'm really proud of our seniors, the leadership, what they've done for Northwestern and women's basketball at our school.   So you know, just you know, one of those things that this is their last Big Ten tournament.   And again, they've helped turn around ‑‑ turn around Northwestern into a prominent women's basketball program now.   When they got here, you know, when they were in high school, that wasn't the case.   So I'm really proud of them and the effort that everybody put in tonight.   Congratulations to Ohio State.   Wish them the best in the tourney. 

Q.   Meghan, a lot of runs in that game.   Can you talk specifically about the run in the end of the first half?   I think it was 16‑0 that you guys closed on at halftime. 
MEGHAN MCKEOWN:   We always‑‑ especially when we're coming from behind ‑‑ we try to push in transition.   You know, we were hitting a lot of shots.   We had a lot of energy going.   I felt like, defensively, we were doing well.   We were executing our game plan very well at the end of the first half.

Q.   Karly, can you talk just about the last couple of weeks and then again today?   It seemed like you're finally kind of rounding in the form.   I know it's been a rough season for you.   But looking to score a lot today and contribute more on the offensive end than maybe we've seen from you before. 
KARLY ROSER:   I've just been trying to contribute in any way possible, whether that be on the opposite end or defensive, whatever my team needs me to do.   And today I thought that by attacking I can lead the front and other people would follow.   And we had a hard time scoring in the second half, but I thought the energy was there. 

Q.   Meghan and Terry both, can you guys talk more than just today, but overall in terms of closing out your career and just what the feeling has been for you for the last four or five years in Northwestern.   Terry?
TERRY TAYLOR:   Yes.   My coach mentioned earlier, we've changed the atmosphere at Northwestern as far as winning.   I think we've become a very competitive team, a very competitive program.   It's been great to grow in this program.   Especially this year, being injured and learning how to develop as a leader.   I'm grateful for my experience and I've seen a lot of girls since I've been here.   It's just great to see.

Q.   Meghan?
MEGHAN MCKEOWN:   Yeah.   It's been a really special four years for both Terry and I.   Just seeing when we came in here, the program was on the rise, we were on the brink of post‑season.   In the next few years, there's definitely going to be a lot of success here in the program.   I just want to thank Northwestern, coaches and administrators and the whole university for everything they've given to us as student athletes.

Q.   Was there anything that you had tried to do differently the way the first game went?
COACH MCKEOWN:   Yeah.   I thought, you know, the first half our game plan was pretty good and defensively, you know, they came out pretty hot.   And then I thought we did a real good job of closing them out and ending on a really strong run.   You know, I thought the key for us was the first half the last of the game in Columbus, you know, the first half really dug a hole.   Today we went up at half‑time three of four and a shot at the buzzer.   I felt like we did what we wanted to do in the first half.   The second half we had some breakdowns on the glass.

Q.   Joe, what went into the decision to use Karly as much as you did today?
COACH MCKEOWN:   Well, two things.   Number one, Deary was sick.   Sick before the game and started out the game played well.   And Karly played extremely well today.   Probably, obviously, the best game she played since coming back, really, in the beginning of February.   So you know, a combination of things.   I thought they both did a great job.   But Karly, you know, showed what she's capable of.   You know, Deary has had a great year for us, incredible year.   We wouldn't be eligible for post‑season if it wasn't for Deary. 

Q.   You had them taking a lot of outside shots.   Was that kind of what you wanted to force Ohio State to do?
COACH MCKEOWN:   We did.   I didn't know they were going to make 11 threes or I would have changed my mind.   But, you know, they make four or five a game and tonight, they just shot the ball really well.   And Ellerbe hit a big three late in the game.   I think we were up one, gave them the lead back.   I don't have the exact time.   But that was the big play.   You know, we just ‑‑ I felt like first half we rebounded after misses in the last eight, nine minutes.   Second half, they rebounded their misses late in the game.   That was the difference.   And Moore made big plays down the stretch.   Just sealed us.   And once I think she had three or four plays in the last probably three or four minutes that I thought changed the game.   







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT