THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2013
David Rickman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MIKE WOODCOCK:  I have David Rickman the R & A Director
of Rules and Equipment Standards with me.  He's here to discuss
this afternoon's rules incident.  We're going to take questions in
English first of all, and then if we have questions in Japanese,
we'll have an interpreter to assist, if you can leave that to the
second part of this press conference.
So I guess if I can open the floor to questions first of
all in English, please.
Q.  David, in talking about Hideki and Johnson Wagner, they
both felt that the penalty was not justified, they both felt that
Hideki had taken adequate time to try to deal with the situation
he was in.  Could you explain why you didn't feel that way?
DAVID RICKMAN:  Thank you, you're quite right.  Both
players made that point quite clearly in the recorder's hut when I
went and joined them at the end of their round.
The timing was conducted by a very experienced European
Tour official.  I talked to him about the circumstances,
particularly of the second bad time, which was the second shot to
the 17th hole.  He explained that he gave Hideki time to deal
with -- I think there was a ball into the crowd -- deal with the
spectator.  He then walked forward to look at the stroke he had,
he then walked back to his ball, and the timing official allowed
all of that to happen before the watch was started.
So we feel that we were appropriately liberal with the
starting of the timing procedure Nick, and then the stroke itself
took two minutes 12 to play, which is well over twice the allotted
time.  So in the circumstances I confirmed to both players that I
could see no reason to waive that bad time and, therefore, a
penalty stroke was appropriate.
Q.  Has there been any other incidents of bad timing that's
come close in this tournament?  Have you been pretty strict about
slow play?
DAVID RICKMAN:  This week we've certainly had a number of
groups get out of position.  We've had our rovers do a
considerable amount of timing.  There have been single bad times,
but obviously as this is the first one-stroke penalty to be
applied this week.  Hideki Matsuyama is the first player to have
received two bad times this week.
Q.  I was going to ask, how frequently have one stroke
penalties been given in The Open for slow play?  And when was the
last one?
DAVID RICKMAN:  It's not unprecedented.  I believe we
have applied a one-stroke penalty before.  I'm afraid I'm
literally fresh off the golf course.  I haven't had a chance to
prepare.  We may have to ask our media team to confirm that to
you.  But my understanding is that it's not the first one stroke
penalty in the history The Open Championship.
Q.  Graeme McDowell also seemed pretty unhappy earlier that
he was put on the clock on the 5th and then taken off at the end
of it.  He thinks that the officials were being a bit trigger
happy.  He said there's a difference between bad play and slow
play, and that you're being a bit too tight in that respect.
DAVID RICKMAN:  I obviously haven't witnessed the
circumstances of that particular timing.  But what I would say is
that I have every confidence with the timing officials that we
have here.  They are the senior officials from both the PGA Tour
in America and the European Tour.  They're very experienced.  This
is what they do for a job, and therefore, I have no reason to
doubt that.  In the circumstances it was appropriate to put that
group on the clock.
What we found is, in recent years, is that if you can put
a group on the clock and deal with it straight away it may be that
they are timed for one hole, but it then means that they are back
in position.  It stops it becoming a bigger problem later on.  And
that's what we want to achieve.  We want to get players back into
position quickly.
Q.  (No microphone.)
DAVID RICKMAN:  Well, we're certainly not in the business
of unsettling players, but we have our pace of play policy,
similar to all professional tours for a reason, and that is to get
players around in a reasonable amount of time.  And if players
keep up with the group in front, then they will not be subject to
timing.
Q.  First, if you can tell us who the European Tour official
was that gave the bad time?  And then secondly, can you confirm,
A, that the group in front of Hideki and Johnson were actually put
on the clock earlier?  And, B, can you also confirm that when with
Hideki received the penalty, that the group behind them was
actually a hole behind?
DAVID RICKMAN:  Okay.  The name of the official who
conducted the timing was David Probyn, tournament director at the
PGA European Tour, very experienced European rules official.
The group ahead were being timed, you're correct.  They
were being timed at the time and the group behind may well have
been not hard up on the Matsuyama group, that is possible.  And if
they weren't, they would certainly be under scrutiny from the
timing officials.  But obviously for the Wagner-Matsuyama group,
the position of the group behind is not their concern, they need
to keep up with the group head ahead of them.  That's their
responsibility.  That's what the policy requires.
Q.  At what point was Hideki actually told that he was being
given a one-stroke penalty?  And was it explained to him in
Japanese?  Did he fully understand it?
DAVID RICKMAN:  Yes, obviously the first bad time was on
the 15th hole on the 15th green.  So he would have been advised of
that bad time, and he would have been advised that a further bad
time would result in a one-stroke penalty.  We had a Japanese
observer with the game, who is the chairman of the Japan Golf
Association's Rules of Golf Committee, and he acted as the
interpreter for the player.  And therefore, I can confirm that the
player was fully aware of the circumstances that he was in.
Q.  Can you just give us a rough estimate of how long a round
is supposed to take here?  Have you got an exact time for it?
Just give us a flavor of exactly how long the timing is supposed
to be, if you can?
DAVID RICKMAN:  Time par for today and tomorrow, when
players are in two balls is a total time of three hours 41
minutes.  That is obviously divided per hole, and each hole is
given an individual hole.  So we have, as it were, a cumulative
record that we look at on a hole-by-hole basis.  And this
particular group were 15 minutes over schedule when they were put
on the clock, having lost time on the two previous holes after
they had been advised that they were out of position and needed to
speed up.
So in those circumstances where they are both over the
time limit that's applied, but also out of position in terms of
their position on the golf course in relation to the group ahead
of them.  Those are the circumstances in which the players are
subject to individual timing.
MIKE WOODCOCK:  We'll now have questions in Japanese.
Q.  Do you explain that it was your understanding that the
rules pace in the group, the Japanese person who was with
Matsuyama explained to him at the time and warned him that he was
behind?  However, when I actually talked to Matsuyama, he said he
wasn't understanding.  So there's obviously a language barrier and
also the explanation was not properly through to Matsuyama.  So as
R & A what is your opinion on this point, because the message
wasn't put across to him?
DAVID RICKMAN:  Well, my understanding is that the
position, the rules position, was made clear to the player.  If
there was something lost in translation, clearly that is
regrettable.  But certainly when I talked to Hideki Matsuyama in
the recording office after the round, he did not raise that
particular point with me at that time.
Q.  How many minutes was there between Matsuyama's group and
the previous group?  How many minutes was there?  And also
Matsuyama said that there was no group behind them.  So what
should be the gap in between?
DAVID RICKMAN:  In terms of their position on the golf
course, they are required to play to the time par or at least keep
up with the group in front.  The group was 15 minutes over the
time par, but more crucially in those circumstances, they were
four minutes out of position with the group ahead of them.  And
that is why they went on the clock.  The position of the group
behind them is not relevant to the condition, but it is obviously
something that our rovers would have been monitoring at the time.
Q.  What did you say about four minutes?
DAVID RICKMAN:  They were four minutes out of position
with the group ahead of them.
Q.  Was the previous group delayed, as well?
DAVID RICKMAN:  The previous group were being timed, yes.
Q.  On air it says that on the second shot on 17, which was
the two minutes, 12 seconds, would the situation ever change if a
lie was different?  If for example, it was in the rough and he
could take a little bit longer?
DAVID RICKMAN:  Well, certainly our timing rovers will
take account of a particularly difficult stroke and in particular
they will, in those circumstances, give the player more time to
assess the stroke before they start the watch.  And I can confirm
that that did happen on this occasion.  We gave Hideki Matsuyama
time to, I believe, sort out the situation, having hit the ball
into the crowd.  He then walked up to look at the stroke that he
had.  He then came back, and in all of the circumstances the
timing official gave him all of that time before he started
timing.
So all of that was done, but it still took two hours 12
minutes from that point for the stroke to be played.
Q.  Because it's a group that was 15 minutes over the
scheduled time, so does that not apply to Matsuyama as well in
terms of being behind, if you see what I mean, does it make sense?
DAVID RICKMAN:  In terms of both players in the group,
both players in the group are subject to individual timing.  But
the other player, Johnson Wagner, did not have any bad times, and
therefore, there is no penalty for him.
MIKE WOODCOCK:  Thank you very much.


 
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT