NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: BRUINS v BLACKHAWKS
June 11, 2013
David Krejci
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for David.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
DAVID KREJCI:   Obviously it was fun.   Every time they show hockey on TV, was always Pittsburgh.   I don't remember any other team.   
Obviously, he's a big name.   He's really big in Czech, especially 20 years ago when he won the two Cups, it was always about him.   I wasn't watching the games live.   I guess because of those two years when he won, after that it was just him.   
If you ask any hockey player from Czech who is my age, something like that, everybody is going to say that Jagr is their favorite player.   I'm glad he's still playing and I'm on his team right now.   
We played together few years ago for Czech team in the Olympics.   That was the first time I met him.   Obviously, I was nervous.   But it was quick tournament.   Then he got here.   We got closer.   
He's a great guy, you know.   He's a great player.   He works hard on and off the ice.   He's helping our team to win.   He's a big reason why we are in the final.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the excitement back home.   
DAVID KREJCI:   Well, it started back in Boston.   We had nice send‑off by the fans.   It was great to see their support.   We got here obviously the day before the game.   You like to do your own thing.   You like to relax, do your own stuff.   
But this is a final.   It's same for both teams.   We've been through it couple years ago in Vancouver with this Media Day and stuff.   It's just part of the final.   It's actually exciting.   
   
 Q.   Last time around Horton had to watch, but this time he has an excitement to experience it.   
DAVID KREJCI:   You know what, he experienced that two years ago as well.   He got hurt in Game3.   He's done that before.   It's great that he's healthy and doing well.   Hopefully he's going to keep producing and keep helping our team to win.   
   
 Q.   How much of an advantage has it been for you and your linemates that you can switch in terms of matchups with lines like Bergeron?  
DAVID KREJCI:   We don't really talk about who is number one.   We just go out there.   We know exactly what coaches wants from each of us.   We just go out there and we play, you know.   That's all we care about.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
DAVID KREJCI:   You know what, that's our team.   We have a big depth.   The organization did a pretty good job.   You know, it's hard for the other teams to stop our team because there's my lines, Bergeron's line, third line as well.   The fourth line is playing pretty good hockey in the playoffs, as well.   
It's tough for the other teams, but we have to bring our A game every single night.   
   
 Q.   You have some young talent on this team; you guys could be at this for years to come.   
DAVID KREJCI:   I heard that we have 17 players from couple years ago.   Obviously that's nice.   I know it's not easy for the organization to keep that many players.   You can just look at Chicago the year before us.   They couldn't re‑sign everybody.   It didn't happen with us.   
I'm just glad I'm part of the team right now, we all get along well.   It's good to be back with the same guys.   
   
 Q.   Are there any young guys on the team that have impressed you particularly?  
DAVID KREJCI:   We didn't have many new guys.   We had Dougie Hamilton.   We all know he's not playing right now.   He played well in the regular season.   He's still young, still learning what the playoffs are about.   He's going to get some experience and be better in the years to come.   
   
 Q.   Very few players who have more impressive statistics in the playoffs than they do in the regular season.   You're one of them.   Any explanation?   
DAVID KREJCI:   No.   I just go out there, try and do my best.   Obviously you need to be a little bit lucky.   I've been lucky on a couple of my goals this playoffs.   
I'm just going with it, taking day to day, game by game, just trying to do my best.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
DAVID KREJCI:   No, I don't think so.   It's been a long time ago.   It would probably happen the same thing if I would be in the lineup.   We've been down as a team, but we came back the year later.   Couple years later, we're here again.   
We got some big games ahead of us, but we're ready for it.   
   
 Q.   Are you the best soccer player on the team?  
DAVID KREJCI:   Pretty sure I am (smiling).   
   
 Q.   What is your soccer nickname?  
DAVID KREJCI:   I didn't have a soccer nickname.   You heard something?   
   
 Q.   Have they given you a nickname?  
DAVID KREJCI:   I don't have a nickname.   Never heard somebody gave me a nickname.  
   
 Q.   Are you a soccer fan in general?  
DAVID KREJCI:   Yes.   
   
 Q.   You know how difficult it is to win.   We don't talk about that the same way here.   Isn't it really two different competitions, the regular season and this?  
DAVID KREJCI:   In hockey?   
   
 Q.   Yes.   
DAVID KREJCI:   You know what, in regular season, you're trying to make a playoff, you're trying to be in the first four spots to get home‑ice advantage in the playoff.   That's basically your goal, you know.   
Obviously you want to win it, but if you don't win it, it's not a big deal, as long as you're in the playoffs.   
Once comes the playoffs, you go round by round.   That's it, I guess.   
   
 Q.   We haven't seen a Presidents' Trophy winner do the double a lot.   Is it a different kind of hockey that's played in the regular season?  
DAVID KREJCI:   Definitely.   It's another level.   Everybody brings their game higher.   They just play with more intensity.   It's way harder, that's for sure, you know, so...   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT