NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: BRUINS v PENGUINS
June 1, 2013
David Krejci
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Boston  – 3
      Pittsburgh  – 0 
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   David, can you talk a little bit about the statement that this team made in Game1, in particular your line.   Talk about Nathan Horton, how he helped set up some of these opportunities.   
    DAVID KREJCI:   Yeah, I think Nathan played really well today.   He set me up for my two goals.   He scored a big one in the third.   
    Tookes played pretty good, as well.   I think it was pretty good effort by all the guys and a big win.   
   
 Q.   David, can you talk a little bit about that second goal that you got.   When you scored that, did you feel like the team was playing with some house money?   
    DAVID KREJCI:   I think so.   You know, I think Tookes made some big saves in the third period.   You know, that's not our hockey, playing up and down.   We want to play good defensively and play in their zone.   They're a good team, so it's tough to do that.   
    But the second goal was pretty big for our team.   I think right after that we took over and kind of controlled the game from there.   
   
 Q.   Your thoughts on, as the game progressed, you had the little scrum at the end of the second period, then played well in the third.   The feeling as a team coming off the ice to end that first game with one win to start.   
    DAVID KREJCI:   You know what, I think it was a good win.   I think it took lots of energy.   It wasn't easy.   I don't know why, maybe because we had a week off.   For some reason, I found it very tough.   
    But we got a win.   We got a day off tomorrow so we got to regroup and get ready for Monday.   
   
 Q.   It seems like when things get hectic out there, you still manage to keep your levelheadedness.   You stay even, not get panicky.   How do you keep calm?  
    DAVID KREJCI:   I don't know.   That's just how I play.   Some players are different.   I play the way I play, so...   
    I don't really have an answer for that question.   
   
 Q.   The first period, you couldn't really get the forecheck going.   As the game went along, it seemed like you started to get that zone time you talked about.   Anything change or just getting comfortable on the road?   
    DAVID KREJCI:   You know what, it was tough.   I think they had pretty good start.   They had some good chances.   They play in their zone a lot.   We were getting in some troubles.   We couldn't get a puck deep, couldn't get a forecheck going.   
    After we scored the first goal, it kind of turned around and we started playing in their zone a little more.   
    In the second, third period, we played the way we play.   
   
 Q.   David, when you look at Crosby and Malkin, all the things they've accomplished, the accolades they've received, do you consider yourself in the same breath with those guys, as good as those guys?  
    DAVID KREJCI:   No.   Those guys, I think they're the best players in the world at this moment.   There's no one like those guys.   
    On the other hand, we don't have guys like that.   We have a team.   We all play as a team, so...   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT