NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: BRUINS v CANUCKS
May 31, 2011
David Krejci
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Questions for David Krejci. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 DAVID KREJCI: No, not really. I know they're excited. So are we, the fans back home in Boston. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 DAVID KREJCI: Obviously a lot. They're a good team. They made it that far. They're not here by accidents, that's for sure. They have huge depth in their lineup. They have a good team, you know. 
 We just have to play hard, play a full 60-minute effort if we want to have a chance to win the Cup. 

 Q. (Question regarding Czech players.) 
 DAVID KREJCI: Well, I never knew I can make it that far. Yeah, my goal was just to play in Czech league, play for the World Championship. 
 But obviously the biggest dream was to play NHL, but I never knew I could make it. 
 As I got older, I felt that I'm good hockey player, so I try to go overseas to play junior. Basically took off from there and made it to NHL. 

 Q. Was there one moment or experience on your path where it clicked?
 DAVID KREJCI: I guess it happened in junior. I just came there. I just said I'm going to try the first year, we'll see how it looks. I may come back. 
 You know, I earn the first center position. I was doing pretty well in the best junior league in the world. I tried the next year again. I signed a contract after that. 
 I guess the two years in junior, they were the breakout years for me. 

 Q. Did you have any English back then?
 DAVID KREJCI: I was taking classes at home. When I came over, I couldn't even answer when they said, How are you. I didn't know what to say back. It took a while. But English is not that hard as some other languages. 

 Q. Was that difficult? 
 DAVID KREJCI: Yeah, it was. I got a homesick a few times. I was living with another guy, he's actually my best friend. He helped me a lot. We played the first year together. We lived together. Second year I got traded. He helped me a lot the first year. Without him, it would be way hard. I don't know how would it end up. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 DAVID KREJCI: You know, I think as a line we're way better than as individuals. I think we know each other pretty well. We have a good chemistry on and off the ice. We read off each other pretty well. We know what the other guy can do on the ice and try to take it to our advantage. 
 So I think we've been playing pretty good hockey. Hopefully we can keep it going. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 DAVID KREJCI: You know, I think we are one of the best teams in the league five-on-five. I think our power-play, we haven't scored that much, but especially in the Tampa Bay series, we had some good looks to score a few goals and just built off that. 
 Now we're going to face Vancouver penalty killers, so it's going to be different. 
 Sometimes you have success against some teams, sometimes you don't. Hopefully we gonna have a success against Vancouver. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 DAVID KREJCI: No, I'm fine. Guys let me know just before I got hit, they told me, heads up. I don't know whether he was going to hit me, but I knew something might happen. 
 Obviously I fell down, was a little shaken up. I came back the next shift and am fine. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 DAVID KREJCI: Yeah, obviously he's good to be healthy. In the off-season, during the season, it's nice. You don't want to talk about injuries that much. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT