BIG TEN CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 10, 2012
Ryan Evans
Bo Ryan
Jordan Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   We'll have Coach Ryan make an opening statement and then have questions for Ryan and Jordan.   Coach? 
COACH RYAN:   We'll just go to questions for the guys. 
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for the student‑athletes? 

Q.   Jordan, for three games now you guys have not shot the ball well against them.   I'm curious, in your mind, what is it they've done in those three games to not give you guys good looks?
JORDAN TAYLOR:   They're good defensive team.   They do that to a lot of teams.   But we didn't do a very good job moving without the ball and some other things.   And me, myself forced a lot, especially there late.   But they're a good defensive team.   We just have to try and correct that for the tournament. 

Q.   Jordan and Ryan, you guys were up 11.   It looked like you kind of had things going your way and all of a sudden you look up and you're down 19.   What happened?
THE MODERATOR:   Jordan, start with you, please.
JORDAN TAYLOR:   They just outworked us for that, whatever time span that they took that lead, and they were doing things we weren't and they were doing it the right way and it just got away from us.
THE MODERATOR:   Ryan? 
RYAN EVANS:   They made a run just like last game we played them, and it really hurt us, especially going to the second half. 
THE MODERATOR:   Other questions? 

Q.   For either guys, Rob Wilson had such a standout game yesterday.   Was there anything Michigan State was doing to limit his touches today?
             THE MODERATOR:   Ryan?
RYAN EVANS:   I don't think so.   I think he had a good looks.   He just wasn't able to knock them down this game, but hopefully he still has that confidence going into the tournament. 
THE MODERATOR:   Any further questions for the student‑athletes?   Okay.   Questions for Coach Ryan? 

Q.   Rob played 32 minutes today, a season high.   How important is it for your players to know that if they play well, you're going to reward them with more minutes?
COACH RYAN:   Our guys have known that for a long time.   We chart every drill in practice, every possession.   Guys know they're shooting.   Our guys had shooting percentages kept on them, assisted turnover ratio.   We compile every stat, every drill, every practice.   So our guys know, even before you see it in game, if they're getting things done in practice, they get to play.   So it's not anything different. 
But Rob with that confidence and then plus maybe a couple other guys are struggling a little bit so he gets to take his minutes plus somebody else's.   Will that be the same in the NCAA tournament?   I don't know.   But I'm an equal opportunity guy.   If you're getting things done, you get on the floor.   And you can stay. 
But he didn't have as many looks.   There's no question.   Ryan was being kind.   He's a good teammate in his answer.   He'll be governor of Arizona one day. 
But Michigan State did a great job of not giving him those looks.   Just like we try not to give guys looks.   Everybody tries.   Sometimes you're more successful than others. 

Q.   Bo, after the strong start, Nix got him going.   He had seven points right in a row and then Thornton hit the three 3s.   How much did that hit mean as far as turning momentum?
COACH RYAN:   The three 3s really hurt because there were a couple things that we didn't do according to our rules.   So some teams make you pay more than others if you don't stick to your reads on defense.   People talk about reads on offense.   I like to talk about on defense.   It's the same thing. 
So we missed a couple assignments.   We didn't do what we were‑‑ what we talked about in the scouting report as a unit, so we paid. 
You know, these guys, that was a hard‑fought game yesterday.   It was a hard‑fought game today.   That 13‑zip run in the second half showed me something about our guys.   I don't know what we had left.   Michigan State obviously had more.   But there were some runs in that game where‑‑ more so than usual.   I mean, as far as‑‑ I don't know how many times Michigan State has had a team score 13 straight, and I don't know how many times we have, but I don't know‑‑ what was their largest where they scored X number of points in a row?   You guys always have those stats somewhere. 
What did they get?   12?   15?   There was a run they went on, too, from 9 to 18.   At least nine straight.   Was there more than one run like that? 
When you're playing from behind‑‑ like Jordan said about shooting percentages sometimes.   You're playing from behind.   Are they a little tougher shots, are they‑‑ are your feet not set?   Are you rushing? 
Percentages do tend to go down overall.   You might hit one streak like we did, but after that, trying to not get separation the way we normally do or not finish on a shot, you gotta do that.   We get it to six and we're right there, but we didn't have enough after that. 

Q.   Coach Ryan, you said today you all didn't get the looks.   What do you have to do to get the looks‑‑
COACH RYAN:   No, I said Rob didn't.

Q.   What did Rob have to do to get the looks.
COACH RYAN:   Well, nothing else.   I mean, just we tried to limit looks of other guys.   And if you ask them what do you have to do to get better looks against Wisconsin or‑‑ there's other guys on the team that can score.   It's not like they did anything out of the ordinary to any one particular guy. 
But you gotta be opportunistic when you get them.   You gotta make 'em if you expect to compete.   You don't have to make all of 'em.   But you gotta go a little bit better than the guy that won the batting crown batting 347.   You can't, in basketball, get $800 million as a baseball player hitting that number.   Basketball players, it's got to be a little higher percentage. 
I don't know.   What did the American League batting champion hit this year?   Three something.   You gotta shoot better than that.   And we have some guys that didn't score.   We need it from everybody.   We need bunches scoring.   And when we get that, we've proven 24 times we can get some things done. 

Q.   Coach, you had that double‑digit lead on the Spartans early in the first half.   How did your coaching strategy change as the game develops and you start to lose that lead and then it becomes a deficit?
COACH RYAN:   Well, I tell my guys in the huddle, make your shots and don't let the other team score.   That's all you can do.   If a guy didn't hedge this way or if we didn't stop this‑‑ you can't go possession by possession and say, okay, this is what you have to do. 
Defense is reading and reacting.   Block out.   Don't give up.   I don't know how many offensive reboundsI thought we did a heck of a job on.   I guess I was right for once. 
But we did a heck of a job on them on the glass.   They're one of the best offensive rebounding teams in the country and they get 6, we get 10.   I thought we were opportunistic there. 
But we couldn't get the put‑backs.   We didn't finish when we did get the offensive rebound, as much as we would have liked to.   There were some things in this game we did well, but when you see a score you say, ah, you got kicked.   But as coaches, we break it down.   We've got some work to do.   Hey, but we get to play again somewhere. 

Q.   Coach, Rob's confidence definitely seemed to go down as the game wore on, dwindle as the game went on today.   His shoulders started to slump a little bit.   Why keep him in?
COACH RYAN:   I didn't see that.   That's your interpretation.   And I'll play the guys I want to play and turn 'em loose. 
If you look at his posture, he's not‑‑ to physically attack somebody that way is not, I think, a good thing to do when his posture really‑‑ not everybody stands straight up with their shoulders back.   And when you're playing, some guys get down a little more.   I don't agree with your comment. 
THE MODERATOR:   Anything else?   Thank you, Coach. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT