MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY DANA
August 6, 2020
Jenny Shin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  Q. All right, Jenny, feels like everyone is really trying to shoot as low as possible today.  What does the course say about your game?
 JENNY SHIN:   Not bad; could get up there; good chance.  That's what it's telling me, yeah.
 Q. How did you feel out there during the first round here?  Definitely a different course than Inverness.  How are you feeling coming off the first round?
 JENNY SHIN:   Pretty good.  I had a couple bogeys but had about seven birdies to match that.  Greens are definitely a lot more receptive than Inverness the first day.  Was really firm on the first day last week, so a little bit different.
 And a little shorter approach shots on certain holes.   Par-5s are reachable, so there was a huge difference there.
 Q. You had Ally McDonald in your group as well.
 JENNY SHIN:   Uh-huh.
 Q. You guys were both were able to battle it out with some low scores today.  How does it feel when there is someone else in your group also is low?
 JENNY SHIN:   It was good.  We were both bouncing off each other.  We both started off pretty hot like towards the end of the front nine, and then she came off finishing birdie, birdie, birdie, birdie on the last four holes, so it is really fun to watch that.
 I think that motivated me a little bit because I made a birdie on No. 7 and then 8, and then couldn't follow up on the 9th hole.  But definitely helped.
 Q. What does it mean to be able to kind of still be able to participate this week?  I know there are no fans out there; a little different than maybe the last couple years you've been out here.
 JENNY SHIN:   Yeah, you know, I haven't been here for a few years, and there is quite a lot of changes in the golf course, too.  I'm so used to seeing the grandstand on the 18th hole all around the green and that loud par-3 that we had, you know, it's a bummer that it's gone now.
 But, I mean, I've always like enjoyed my time out there with my caddie and the players, so not too much of a difference for me.
 Q. When you start a tournament birdie, birdie, birdie, how does that help with prep work and maybe get the confidence going and keep the aggressive mindset active?
 JENNY SHIN:   Yeah, definitely have the mind going.  I could shoot 8-under today; could go low today; good day to be aggressive.
 And I did that today, so it definitely helps in that sense.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT