MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 16, 2016
Jenny Shin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You're looking for your best result since your win in Dallas.  Good round today; how did you feel overall?
JENNY SHIN: It was good.  I felt like I should have made a little bit more putts and should have birdied more par-5s and could have gotten my shots closer, but pretty satisfied.  I would have to go really low for me to have a chance tomorrow, but I'm still looking forward to a top 10.  I've been struggling a little bit since my last win, so it'll be good.
Q. Anything you've been working on that's hit off this week so far?
JENNY SHIN: Yeah, just -- I've been struggling mentally a little bit more with my game, so I really try to keep a steady emotion and not get too emotional over certain shots or a certain score.  I think I did a pretty good job of that the last few days.
Q. Do you work with a mental coach?
JENNY SHIN: I used to.  I mean, I still have one, I just haven't spoken to him in a few months.  I do have a one, Kevin Saveraduke (ph).  He helped me a lot last year, and I think he's contributed a lot for me to get to where I am right now.
Q. You feel like you're at a point where you can analyze yourself and be able to calm yourself down or stay patient, stay focused?
JENNY SHIN: Yeah.  I just felt like the mental part that I was struggling with isn't something I can talk to somebody and get help.  It was completely me, and I needed some time.  Hopefully this week will be a turnaround for me.
Q. And you feel like the opportunities are there, you just maybe need to execute on some putts?
JENNY SHIN: Well, I've been struggling with my tee shots the most.  Ever since I won, starting in Kingsmill, my tee shots were just going everywhere but the fairway.  For me the strongest part of my game is actually hitting it on the fairway.  Three years ago I finished like top three in driving accuracy.  For me to witness that was a big shock to me, and it took me a while to like kind of tell myself it's not the shot, it's not the shot, it's not the swing, it's in your head.  It was more my tee shot more than anything.
Q. How has that been this week for you?
JENNY SHIN: Well, funny enough, my driver broke last week during the last round of the U.S. Open.
Q. Like the shaft?
JENNY SHIN: Yeah, I hit my tee shot on my ninth hole, and I looked down and my club was just dangling.  You know, with me struggling with my drive and I have a new shaft, and I tried like four or five different shafts --
Q. Since last week?
JENNY SHIN: Right, so this week when I came to the golf course and I worked with Paul and worked with John, the Fujikura guy, it was a little bit tough, just knowing that I haven't been hitting my driver very well, but now with the new shaft, it was tough.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT