HONDA LPGA THAILAND
February 25, 2016
Jenny Shin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Wonderful first round, 4-under today.  You must be very pleased with your performance.  
JENNY SHIN: I am.  I'm really shocked because the greens are so fast this year.  It's the fastest I've ever seen them, and I tried to put myself in uphill lies as much as possible.  But I putted well today.  Shots were a little bit shaky here and there, made a lot of bogeys, made a lot of birdies, but overall pretty solid start.   
 Q.  Must be nice to get that first round under your belt.  What will you change, if anything, tomorrow?  
JENNY SHIN: Hopefully hit my 3-hybrid a little bit better.  I hit it two times today, and I failed miserably both times, so I'm going to go work on that on the range, and hopefully a better day tomorrow.   
 Q.  It was a little hot out there today, wasn't it?  
JENNY SHIN: It was.  It certainly isn't the hottest.  It was a little bit windy, so it might have been a little -- but it's always hot here.   
 Q.  What are you looking forward to doing now?  
JENNY SHIN: Hopefully a really nice shower because I'm pretty sweaty.  I want to go back to my hotel and sit in the air-conditioning.  That's what I want to do.   
 Q.  Tied for ninth last week; is that carrying over do you think a little bit this week?  
JENNY SHIN: Well, honestly it's a little bit disappointing because I started off as the leader, finished as the ninth.  Really of course I wanted to win, but my main goal was to shoot under par the last day, and I didn't do that.  Very disappointing.  It hit me hard, but I'll be fine.   
 Q.  How did it feel today, sitting on it and then coming out and playing well?  
JENNY SHIN: Right.  I wasn't expecting anything.  That's probably why I shot under par today.  Really putted well, surprisingly.  A lot better than I expected.  And just when I had chances for birdie, I did them, and that's what I did last week.  I feel like as a player I've gotten better at doing that over the years, so I want to continue doing that.   
 Q.  At the start of the year did you do anything in the off-season, changes, anything in particular?  
JENNY SHIN: Yeah, a lot of changes.   
 Q.  Really?  Let's hear them, at least some.  Any big ones?  
JENNY SHIN: Well, yeah, I was looking for a coach because I didn't want to work with my last year's coach, and then I didn't know who to go, so I was just kind of lost, and then I went to somebody in Orlando, Tim, and it worked for, like, briefly, and then it just didn't work anymore.  I was just like, crap, my tournament is in three weeks, what do I do, right?  And then I called my Hanwha director who's been helping me a little bit here and there over the years, and I was like, I need your help.  I'm like totally lost.  I'm playing in three weeks, I'm not ready.  So he came over from Korea, helped me out for like four days, and I made a drastic change in my swing but I was able to do it because I'm the type of person who can change a swing very easily.  So quick change, went to my first event, played horrible, but it was okay because I was like, I wasn't ready, and I was able to accept whatever results and just get better every -- just know what to work on.   
 Q.  What was the change?  
JENNY SHIN: The change -- well, I changed my swing, but I changed my backswing and my downswing both, and I just realized that when I worked with Tim, I felt very disconnected, and working with Sang, I worked more on my rhythm, more on my timing, and just get the general flow so I can be more comfortable out there.  So that was the main change.  I changed my putting.   
 Q.  You were doing it all.  
JENNY SHIN: Yeah.   
 Q.  What was the putting stroke, the change?  
JENNY SHIN: Yeah, last year I was doing a little Brandt Snedeker, the little hit, but then this year I'm doing more of like end-to-end stroke, a little bit slower, and --   
 Q.  Concentrate on the tempo?  
JENNY SHIN: Yeah, a little bit more on just like soft stroke.  You know what I mean?   
 Q.  Yeah, totally.  
JENNY SHIN: It wasn't like, hit the wall.   
 Q.  What's your Hanwha director's name?  
JENNY SHIN: Sang Kim.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT