KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 11, 2015
Jenny Shin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Bogey-free, the eagle on the back nine, finished with a birdie.  How are you feeling out there?  JENNY SHIN: Good.  I started the round feeling a little uncertain.  I didn't know how I was going to play, I really didn't know.  I talked to my psychologist last night about how I was freaking out for this round, so I tried to play as comfortable as I can, just like any other tournament.  I tried not to think of it as a major and it turned out great.  I had a couple bogey-free rounds last week, so I think I'm on a good run here.   Q.  What was making you so nervous, being a major?  JENNY SHIN: I think so.  I think it has to do with that I'm playing -- I've been playing okay, and I feel like I have my first win coming up and I thought, you know, it's a major, I want to play well.  Just a lot of pressure I guess.   Q.  When did you sort of settle into the round and when did you start feeling that you had something going?  JENNY SHIN: Probably the first birdie.  I thought it was good to have a birdie at the first instead of a bogey, so I felt great.  Then I started birdieing the par 5s.  That really made me feel comfortable.   Q.  Are you sort of pleasantly surprised that you posted this number today?  JENNY SHIN: I am.  I was chasing the leaderboard all day and I was surprised that Webby was at 6 at one point and thought, how is she shooting 6-under par.  I got there and I was like, maybe I can get one more on the 18th hole and I did, so a little surprised.   Q.  You were looking at the leaderboard on a Thursday, is that something you normally do?  JENNY SHIN: I chase the leaderboard a lot and I'm trying not to because sometimes it puts me in a bad way, sometimes in a good way.  Because it's Thursday I didn't really care. Ed.   Q.  How good did it feel to birdie the last?  JENNY SHIN: Good.  Last putt, I had a lot of camera stuff going on, so I was a little distracted.  But kept doing my thing and I made it.   Q.  How did you handle the heat?  JENNY SHIN: It's all right.  I lost weight since last year and ever since then, I've been handling the heat quite well.  So it's all right.   Q.  What were some of the camera stuff that you mentioned?  JENNY SHIN: I think that's just what happens when you climb up the leaderboard.  They take pictures of you.   Q.  The gallery?  JENNY SHIN: Well, no, actually the photographer.  So as I was reading my putt, I kept hearing the shutter.  It was very distracting.   Q.  How did you get over that?  JENNY SHIN: I stood up.  Looked somewhere else.  Came back into and did the whole routine again.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT