ANA INSPIRATION
April 3, 2015
Jenny Shin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Run me through your day.  Pretty good round out there.  JENNY SHIN: Yeah, a lot of birdies, a lot of bogeys.  But overall it's been pretty good.  I'm putting much better than last week.  It's been a good day.   Q.  Three back of the lead.  Do you feel pretty good about where you are heading into the weekend?  JENNY SHIN: Yeah, yeah.  I can see that Sei Young eagled the last so I don't know how she did it or if she went for it.  I don't know.  It's going to be tough because she's a really good player.  She's got both distance and the accuracy, so I'm just going to have to do what I've been doing, hopefully hit my drives straighter because I struggled with that today.  If I just hit the fairways and putt like I did today, I think I'll have a good chance on the weekend.   Q.  Good start to the season for you so far do you feel like?  JENNY SHIN: Not bad.  It actually sounds better than it actually is.   Q.  Why is that?  JENNY SHIN: Well, I feel like I was really close and in contention, and then a bad round on Sunday and tumbled down and repeated it in Asia, so hopefully I won't do it this week.  That's probably my main goal, stay in contention, and even if I don't win, stay in contention and be up there as close as I can.   Q.  Where did the bogeys come from today?  You said there were a lot of birdies, a lot of bogeys.  JENNY SHIN: Yeah, I feel like I did have much more bogeys than I should have had.  Driver was drawing a little bit too much today than I expected.  These fairways are a little tight, so a little too much draw can be in the deep rough, and I got a couple of those, one in the bunker.  Saved myself coming up-and-down, making pars, but you can only do so much.   Q.  What's the key out there on that golf course?  It's pretty long compared to what you normally play.  JENNY SHIN: Right.  Really don't hit into the rough, and hit as many greens as you can and don't get too down on yourself out there making a bogey, because you are going to be making bogeys.  It's a major, and ANA is always -- this course is always tough with the long rough.   Q.  First top 10 in a major last year at the U.S. Women's Open.  Does that give you some confidence heading into the weekend?  JENNY SHIN: Yeah, I know I can do it.  I've been pretty close.  You know, just -- I'm not too sure because I've only had one top 10.   Q.  Being in contention, you said you didn't like that you had a bad round on Sunday, but what did that do for you?  I would think the more that you're there, the more comfortable you get.  JENNY SHIN: Yeah.  Even a couple years back, cameras following me was a bit intimidating and disturbing.  But I'm starting to get a little bit used to it.  I think that is a bit of an advantage for me compared to other rookies.   Q.  You've been on Tour for a little while.  Is this the strongest rookie class you've seen, especially the young Korean players?  It's been exceptional this year so far.  JENNY SHIN: It is the strongest rookie class I've ever seen.  But I'm not surprised because they won so many times to make the LPGA, they are used to winning, they are used to being on camera, getting all the attention, so I'm not too surprised.   Q.  What makes all them so good, what makes Hyo Joo so good, Sei Young?  What have you seen out of those girls' games?  JENNY SHIN: I think it all has to do with our culture.  We give it all in.  We go all in.  We're known for beating balls and staying out in the sun for a really long time practicing.  You just can't beat practice and talent at the same time, and that's what they both have, so that's what makes them so special, I think.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT