BANK OF HOPE FOUNDERS CUP
March 21, 2019
Jenny Shin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 6-under par to start your round.  How was it?
JENNY SHIN: Felt pretty good.  I still left a few out there; made two bogeys.  So knowing that I had eight birdies total, great start.
Q. Yeah.  You had a bit longer off-season.  Started in Thailand.
JENNY SHIN: Uh-huh.
Q. Played well, so what were you working on this off-season?  What were you up to?
JENNY SHIN: Well, I usually play every Australian event, but with the Vic Open starting a little bit earlier I thought I'll give myself a little bit more time.
I acquired a new routine and it takes some time -- it's taking some time.  I wasn't successful with that in Thailand but still managed to get fourth, so that was a great feeling.
However I'm still working on my routine, working on my swing, and I'm pretty happy that I gave myself two months to work on it.
Q. Okay.  Can you give any insight into what's different about your routine this year?
JENNY SHIN: Well, last year in October I picked up this horrible habit of not being able to pull the trigger, so been working on that.  It wasn't the easiest fix.  There is still few percentage of that left out there.  Instead of starting it behind the ball, now I'm addressing the ball from the start, so that's something completely different.
And the habit really kicks in, so I got to stop myself once in a while.  That routine and change my backswing a little bit as well.  So those two things.  Pretty big.
Q. Obviously with 6-under par it seemed to be working for you today.
JENNY SHIN: I think the putting helped more, but definitely the pace was a little bit quicker today.  I didn't have any timing today with the rules officials, so that's great news.
But, yeah, happy with the 6-under.
Q. What makes this event so special, just having the Founders here and the girls with girls' golf?
JENNY SHIN: It's really an amazing event, because Marilynn, she followed almost 14 holes today with us.  I know her from previous years, and she's telling me all the things that happened when she first started creating the LPGA Tour.
Really without those ladies we wouldn't be here making millions of dollars -- or maybe not me, but some of the girls up there.  It's such a great organization.  Our Tour is more about giving back than anything, so it's a very special event.  I'm very honored to be here.  The motto, Act like a Founder should really stick to the end.  It's a very special event.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT