HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
February 26, 2012
Jenny Shin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What was it like in the playoff?
JENNY SHIN:   Actually, the playoff wasn't that bad.   I wasn't as nervous as I was on the 18th, my real 18th hole. 
Yeah, I just tried my best.   The tee shot on the 18th hole really threw me off.   But I'm okay. 
Yeah, I'm happy with where I am.   I feel like it's a great start, so I'm looking forward to the following year.

Q.   Can I ask you about the weather?   I mean how much did that throw you off?   You were so close to victory at that stage. 
JENNY SHIN:   Yeah, you know, I just don't think it's meant to be.   If it was, we could have just played 18, but it's just not meant to be.   So I'm accepting it.

Q.   Did you feel a bit of nerves or lack of experience?   Would you agree with that?
JENNY SHIN:   Yeah, I do.   I think it needs to grow up.   So like I said, I'm accepting it and going to move on.

Q.   Is this an experience of how good do you think this could be in your career development?
JENNY SHIN:   This is really big, I think.   Going into the second year on tour and to be in the playoff in my third tournament of the year, it's amazing.   I hope this can help.

Q.   Did you think you would be at this stage in your career this early on?   Did you always believe at such a young age you would be so close like this?
JENNY SHIN:   Yeah.   I actually moved to America for golf.   And I am living a dream.   It's a little bit of unexpected early in the week, but yeah.   I think so. 

Q.   What did you do with your time off during the break, during the rain delay?
JENNY SHIN:   I tried to get something to eat because I haven't eaten the whole day. 
I tried to stay out of the AC, but it was just impossible. 

Q.   You didn't go warm up after quite a long break.   Do you wish you had?
JENNY SHIN:   Actually, I was the one who said I didn't really want to go out to practice. 
It's just a long way back and forth, so I thought (inaudible).   But I don't regret it.   Like I said, I think it's meant to be, so I'm okay. 

Q.   Is this the first time you've been in the playoffs?
JENNY SHIN:   Yeah.   I've never been in the last group on the LPGA tour.

Q.   This is really your second year on tour?
JENNY SHIN:   Yeah, my second year. 

Q.   First playoff?
JENNY SHIN:   Yeah.   First playoff. 

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
JENNY SHIN:   I had so many battles, especially with the tee shot because I did hook one into the water on number 18.   But you know, all I did was try my best. 

Q.   What was your caddie saying to you?
JENNY SHIN:   He was just telling me to just do my best, do my routine.   Stay in sync. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT