HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
February 24, 2012
Jenny Shin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MIKE SCANLAN:   We would like to welcome Jenny Shin to the interview room at the HSBC Women's Champions.   
Right now you're tied for the lead, but players are still out on the course so that could change.   Regardless, a really nice round today, and your first ever trip to this event.   So if you would, just talk about your day today, how you felt it went for you.  
JENNY SHIN:   I hit a couple of shots on the range, like I said, my shots aren't as great as the last two weeks.   But I just hang in there because I feel like I can pull it off with the putting that I have this week.   
My putting was really, really good today.   So that's really helped me with the confidence.   I just kept hitting birdies from there.   
MIKE SCANLAN:   So the last couple of weeks, you've had some really nice finishes, seventh in Australia, tied for ninth in Thailand, what's clicking for you this year?   
JENNY SHIN:   I think mentally, I'm a little more confident than last year, and maybe‑‑ I feel a little bit more confident.   I feel a little bit more confident with my golf game.   I think Australia helped me a lot.   I feel like I know what I'm doing out on the course now.   I have better management with the golf course and stuff.   So that's really it.   
MIKE SCANLAN:   Kind of an interesting week for you, coming here, your caddie got sick, so you picked up another caddie, but did that affect the way you prepared for this tournament, not having your regular caddie on the bag?   
JENNY SHIN:   I was sick, as well, with the caddie.   I really didn't expect such a great round.   The first day, I had no intentions of‑‑ I didn't feel like I needed to play well or anything, because I was a bit annoyed with the situation.   
But my caddie, who is sick, told me to stick with my routine and don't let anything bother you, because there's nothing I can control.   So I kept that with me the whole round, and you know, came up with a good score, especially the eagle on the first day, that helped.   
MIKE SCANLAN:   If you would, talk about your LPGA career thus far, in 2010, you qualified for the LPGA via the developmental tour, which is now called the Symetra Tour and finished fourth on the Money List.   Last year you had a good rookie season, two Top‑10s and 55th on the Money List.   Is it all you ever hoped and dreamed of, or do you still feel like there's a lot more for you out there?   
JENNY SHIN:   It's only my third event, but I am so happy to be where I am.   Last year I was very satisfied with my ranking.   I really wanted to play this event, the HSBC.   
Like you mentioned, it's a really big event in Asia.   But my main goal is to be at the top, Top‑10 in the world.   So I still have more tournaments to go, but I'm very satisfied with where I am.  
   
 Q.   If you could talk about your putting; what's been the secret so far?   
JENNY SHIN:   I didn't keep stats‑‑  
MIKE SCANLAN:   We can give you the stats.   
JENNY SHIN:   Doing well in this tournament would be good because I didn't prepare for anything.   The last day of the Australian Open, something just clicked.   I wouldn't say any secret, but just doing what I've been told to do, and really, the confidence.   You start making putts, that just gets me going.   
I think confidence is what got me going so far till now.   
   
 Q.   Inaudible.  
JENNY SHIN:   I'm not sure.   I'm just going to do what I have been doing, and if that can get me up there, then lucky me.   
   
 Q.   With all of the talk before the tournament started, it has been about Yani and other players like Na Yeon Choi and Karrie Webb, are you surprised looking at the leaderboard that you and Angela and Katie are three shots ahead at the moment?   How do you explain that fact that you stole the limelight?  
JENNY SHIN:   To be honest, I've been spoiled by some of the people around me.   They were telling me how I have the potential to win; I have everything that every other top player has got.   So I'm not going to worry too much about who is in the field and who is No. 1.   
You know, I'm just believing what the people are telling me, so I feel like if I keep this up, I can get a win or two this year.   
   
 Q.   The people around you, do you mean family or ‑‑  
JENNY SHIN:   Yeah, family, coaches.   
MIKE SCANLAN:   Thanks so much for coming in and good luck.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT