ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS LADIES SCOTTISH OPEN
July 26, 2018
Jenny Shin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. After you bogeyed the first, you must have thought, I should have stayed in bed, but after that, it was all good, wasn't it?
JENNY SHIN: Yeah, I played the first hole all right.  I was hoping to cut my second shot but it didn't, and it went straight into the crowd.  But you know, I kept calm and I birdied the next hole, the par 5.
Q. The wind is up now, so pretty important to go out this morning and make a good score?
JENNY SHIN: I actually think I played better on the back nine.  The wind did pick up on No. 10, 11, but I putted well.  My routine was very on point and I was pretty focused out there.
Q. How comfortable are you playing links golf?
JENNY SHIN: Pretty confident I would say.  I really enjoy links golf.  They are one of my favourite golf courses.  I really like being here in Scotland.
Q. Starting off with bogey, what did you tell yourself after this first hole?
JENNY SHIN: Well, I couldn't tell myself too much.  I hit a good drive.  Like I said I was expecting a cut with my second shot and it didn't really cut, and it's a very narrow opening.  Hit one of the left mounds and went straight over in the fescue.  I'm pretty happy that I didn't make a bigger score, and I knew there were a lot of birdies coming up.
Q. What's the course playing like today?
JENNY SHIN: Well, the front nine today, we didn't have a breath of wind, and I think it was easier for long hitters.  I actually had a long hitter in my group, and her ball flight wasn't affected at all by the wind, and all the par 5s were reachable.
You know, you get the birdies there and you get the eagles there.  The back nine, it picked up and if you had a high trajectory it would have affected you quite a bit.
But you know, overall, it's not too difficult, I don't think.  I shot a 5-under par.  I believe there could be an 8-under par out there.  The bunkers aren't too deep and the fescues aren't too long, and it's a wide fairway and all that.  So I think it's very playable.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT