SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 15, 2021
Evan Kawai
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. I know this week didn't go the way you would have liked to, but what kind of takeaways do you have from playing these last two rounds and the days prior?
 EVAN KAWAI:   You know, just experience all together.  I think I learned a lot about my game this week.  I was able to finish off with two birdies which was nice.  But I just trusted my process throughout week and in the end, you know, played good on the last two holes.  So I know what I'm doing is right.  Learned a lot this week.
 I know my game is not where it should be, but I know what to work on.  The goal in the end is to end up out here on TOUR, so I'll go back with my coach and my team, my trainer, and we'll work hard to get back to where we are.
 Q. What did you learn most about your game that you hope to improve upon?
 EVAN KAWAI:   For me, this week, just like feeling the shot, really, because out here, I felt like I was being a little too technical trying to play perfect golf, hit perfect shots.  But it was more about when you're feeling it, you know, you'll hit a good shot.  But yeah, that's the only thing -- that's the biggest thing that I learned this week about my game.
 Q. What's your favorite memory of the week?
 EVAN KAWAI:   Just having fun with my caddie, Carson.  Saw my trainer, Steve, behind the hole.  People behind the fences saying what's up and saying hi to the volunteers.  Want to thank them for a great week.  They do a great job out here, finding our golf balls in the trees, but yeah.
 Q. When do you go back to school?
 EVAN KAWAI:   I fly back on the 22nd.  Planned on being here till Sunday but now I'll have a weekend to kind of relax and watch some golf on TV and go to the beach.
 I got a lot of good texts from my teammates this week.  They are all just really supportive and rooting for me.  I just want to thank everybody who supported me this week, thank the Hawaii State Golf Association, Friends and Charity of Hawai'i and Aloha Section.  Without them, an amateur in the State of had a pay we wouldn't have a chance to represent their home state out here.  Just very privileged and I'm very grateful to have played this week.
 Q. How much do you look forward to making it back here one day and being able to play this tournament in front of the fans?
 EVAN KAWAI:   After missing the cut this week, I'm fired up to make my next one.  I'm just going to get back to work.  Kind of smooth out the game, make sure that I'm more consistent under pressure.  I think the thing that these guys do so well is they are able to play under the pressure and they are able to perform when they need it.  So that's a hard thing to practice but I'll find some way to get better at it.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT