BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
April 28, 2012
Oliver Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Thoughts on the day?
OLIVER FISHER:   I was playing solid really.   It's one of those courses where if the wind is nowhere near as strong as yesterday or the day before, so you feel like you can give yourself a lot of chances.   But somehow they keep slipping, but I managed to make a few coming in on the back nine. 
I'm hitting the ball well and happy with how I'm playing.   Bernd is obviously going pretty low out there.   Hope I have a good day tomorrow.

Q.   We say just about every week about the need for patience on the golf course; you had to bide your time before the chances came. 
OLIVER FISHER:   I missed a few drives but my iron play was pretty solid.   I think apart from a couple of greens where I putted from the fringe, I think I chipped once.   So I've hit a lot of greens and played solid.   So, it's good.   I'm happy. 

Q.   That birdie at the last, I presume that makes you feel even better when you do look‑‑
OLIVER FISHER:   The last, it's a bit of a funky tee shot anyway.   So you're always relieved a little bit or happy to see the ball in the fairway when you get down there.   And it's quite an accessible flag today, on the left‑hand side, so I guess there's been a few eagles there today or whatever. 
But it's good to make up‑and‑down from the trap.

Q.   Been a while since you've been in this position going into the final day?
OLIVER FISHER:   It is.   Obviously Bernd is running away with it, but it's good to be up there on the leaderboard and obviously in with a chance tomorrow and that, and keep doing what I'm doing.   Solid week and some consistency would be nice.   So it's moving in the right direction. 

Q.   Are you a different player since the victory? 
OLIVER FISHER:   Yeah, well, I don't know, I wouldn't say I'm anymore confident.   Obviously I've proved to myself that I can win out here and that, so from a basis from confidence and that, yeah, I guess it always helps to have a little bit of, you've done it before sort of thing behind you. 
I know what I can do.   A little bit more consistency and that, I can be up there a bit more often. 

Q.   It affects players in different ways once they eventually get the victory, and you felt you were a long time trying and in the doldrums a little bit?
OLIVER FISHER:   Definitely, but the more consistent you are, the more times you can give yourself chances of getting in the Top‑10, Top‑5, and week on week building and building and building.   That will leave you in good stead.   Obviously the end of the season‑‑ the season isn't really about weeks.   It's about the whole year and consistency. 
Looking at guys like Rory and Luke Donald, consistently, week‑in and week‑out, they are up there all the time.   That's what I've been striving towards.   I've not quite done that but it's work‑in‑progress. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT