BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
April 26, 2012
Oliver Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   It is tricky, but that's still a nice score. 
OLIVER FISHER:   I think the back nine is definitely more open than the front, on a day like today, where you're not really amongst the hills as much.   On the front I think you're more sort of on the side of hills and that and the trees sort of come around a bit and you suddenly drop right into a sort of valley.   The wind plays, although I think the front nine is more scorable, I thought the front nine played tricky. 

Q.   And the score on the back, a nice run of birdies to move to 4‑under?
OLIVER FISHER:   Yeah, I was going nice after 10, and then a good up‑and‑down on the second, which was my 11th, and then hit a poor shot on 3.   The wind was right off the left.   It's quite tough.   You can't feel it on the tee.   Just one of those days.   You're going to shoot shots which are terrible and shots which are great.   It looks like it's been pretty tough out there. 

Q.   Did you have an indication of how tough it was‑‑
OLIVER FISHER:   Not really.   I putted well.   I putted nicely and holed some nice putts on the back nine which was my front.   You always feel like, again, you're sort of in the trees, in amongst the hills and you can't feel the wind, so it feels easier than I guess it is. 
Then you come out there on 9 and suddenly see leaders 2‑under par and you think, well, maybe it is pretty tricky out here.   The greens, I hit some good putts coming in.   I don't know if the wind is going to get softer or not as hard this afternoon, but it's tricky out there.   It's not easy.   You can definitely see somebody getting on the right side of the flag and shooting 4‑ or 5‑under par I think.   But you'll need a little bit of good fortune. 

Q.   Put this into context with how you've been playing of late?
OLIVER FISHER:   Well, I've not made the last few cuts.   I haven't been‑‑ I've not been winning it off the tee or anything, so I've not been playing disastrous.   I've been playing okay, maybe not hitting my irons close enough.   I actually played quite nicely in the Middle East at the start of the year.   Didn't really get much out of it.   It's one of those games, isn't it, you just have to keep plugging away. 

Q.   So you're still positive then?
OLIVER FISHER:   Yeah, I think you've got to be.   It's a frustrating game, isn't it.   So if you get too down all the time, it's never going to be right, is it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT