U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 24, 2005
Oliver Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CRAIG SMITH:  Oliver Fisher, congratulations, 5 & 3, and not only a big win, but coming off a Walker Cup where it's duly noted that you were the youngest player ever picked for a Walker Cup and you're showing true talent here.
OLIVER FISHER:  Yeah, I played solid today and everything kind of went well.  I made a really good putt on 13, which kind of put me ahead of the game really and that was a good turning point in the match and went on from there really.
CRAIG SMITH:  I think the thing that stands out is we've got kind of a Walker Cup rematch here, Lee Williams for the USA team, Oliver Fisher, GB&I Team, was it a fun match?  Were you talking?
OLIVER FISHER:  We didn't speak much, but yeah it was fun.  Obviously Lee played I think Gary Lockerbie in the Walker Cup, so I had not played him before.  It was good to be playing someone from the Walker Cup.
Q.  When you first saw the matchup this morning, what was going through your head?  It wasn't an easy matchup going up against Lee Williams?
OLIVER FISHER:  Yeah, I don't know, first thought, I thought, well, you've got Lee Williams, obviously a great player.  I thought he should be a really good one to.  Win, he's a great player so he's a good one to kind of beat and makes it kind of, beat him and just go on to the next round and see who you get next.
CRAIG SMITH:  Are you playing the course or are you playing your opponent, and how much match play experience do you have?
OLIVER FISHER:  I play the course and then obviously if you're playing    your partner is messing up, then you're kind of called to change according to what he's done. Just that, really, play the course.

And I have a lot of match play experience in the past.  We play a lot of match play in England.  Next week, going home to Nationals and obviously the British Amateur earlier in the year, Walker Cup as well.  So we get a lot of match play practice.
Q.  What did you do in your time between the Walker Cup and the U.S. Amateur?
OLIVER FISHER:  We traveled, flew down to Philly on the Monday, straight off the Walker Cup and managed to stay with a professional and gave us like a preview of the course and just kind of guide around.  We practiced, we played Pine Valley and just a bit of playing, keeping our games in shape, kind of pretournament preparation.
Q.  How much did your caddie help you today and how did you go about selecting him?
OLIVER FISHER:  Lloyd was really, really good out there.  He told me a couple of times when to hit the 9 iron, not the wedge, but yeah, he was really, really good having that kind of experience on your side.
Q.  When did you decide to choose him?  Was it this morning after you got in?
OLIVER FISHER:  Yeah, I obviously asked him last night to caddie for me, so it was good.
Q.  Can you talk about the playoff at all this morning?  How was it for you and what did you do?
OLIVER FISHER:  I stood over it on 17; you play solid, you should be in there.
Q.  Was that what you were thinking, play solid and you should be in there?
OLIVER FISHER:  17th and    or 19 and 17, there's not too much to do wrong, there should be someone in there that does something.  So just    I hit some good shots, hit the greens and it from there really.
CRAIG SMITH:  Oliver, looking at a couple of kids in the match play field, we have a 15 year old, a couple of 16 year olds who are still in high school.  And you, you're still 16 but you have a clearer path; your future is now golf, isn't it?
OLIVER FISHER:  Yeah, pretty much.  I just finished high school in England, so I'm kind of hoping to see what happens and going on from there.
CRAIG SMITH:  What is next for you?  Do you try to turn professional at a certain point?
OLIVER FISHER:  Not yet.  I don't have any plans to turn pro yet.  A year or so ago I was maybe thinking after 2007 Walker Cup, so hopefully then or maybe before that, we'll see what happens.
CRAIG SMITH:  Peter McEvoy a real neat comment of you and your talents:  "I'll retire right now and take ten percent of your future earnings."  Quite a compliment.
OLIVER FISHER:  Yeah, Pete is a really experienced guy and it's a nice comment coming from him.
CRAIG SMITH:  Are you getting worn out yet, or at 16, can you just keep playing golf every day?
OLIVER FISHER:  Yeah, just keep playing golf, I don't get bored of it, I love it.  So what can be better than playing golf.
CRAIG SMITH:  What did you have to work onto win this?  Is there a piece of your game that still needs maturation?
OLIVER FISHER:  I played pretty solid, just keep hitting the same shape and take one shot at a time and take each match at a time and see where you go from there.
CRAIG SMITH:  And Merion, would you give it a rating?  What does it look like?  Anything you've played similar?
OLIVER FISHER:  It's definitely unfamiliar.  It's fantastic.  I've never played a golf course like Merion.  The rough around the greens is so tight and so tough if you miss the green.  I can't really compare it to anything I've ever played before, but it's fantastic, it's really, really nice going around there.  It's really good fun.
CRAIG SMITH:  And your Walker Cup teammates, I see two have won.  Is this a little bit of revenge for USA's victory in the Walker Cup.
OLIVER FISHER:  No, it's still early yet, but maybe.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT