PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 23, 2016
Oliver Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Very well played.  Just how brave was this performance, not just today but all week for you?
OLIVER FISHER: No, very.  It's a tough week coming into knowing that you have to have a decent finish to retain my playing rights.  Very relieved right now.
Q. You sounded very calm all week.  Internally, what have you been feeling?
OLIVER FISHER: It's hard, and especially this course.  It gives you a lot of opportunities but there's also a lot of times where you can like be in the water and make a few mistakes.  It's not easy out there, and I finished with two birdies there, so it was a nice way to finish.
Q. The approach on 17, how good did that look?
OLIVER FISHER: Exactly, I think when you start thinking about it, it's kind of dangerous.  So I just had to kind of get on with it as quick as I could and hopefully it will be good enough.
Q. How did you clear the thoughts in your mind?  You seemed to stay very present.  Was it a case of trying to keep the momentum with the walk around and your golf swing today?
OLIVER FISHER: It's a shame I bogeyed 15 and 16.  Started thinking about things there.  And missed the drive on 17, but hit a great wedge.  It was good to hit that wedge, and get that drive on the last was great.
But it's difficult, it's difficult to keep it going under the circumstances.  I'm really pleased with this performance.
Q. What do you think you'll take from this into a big year next year hopefully for you?
OLIVER FISHER: I think a rest.  I've played like nine out of 11 weeks.  It's been a long run and I'm really pleased to have finished this way.
It will be great to get off to a good start next year.  That's the most important thing.  If you can get off to a good start in the Middle East and get some momentum early doors, then who knows what can happen in the season.  When you're on the back foot a little bit like I was early and miss a few cuts around Wentworth, middle of the season, Scottish Open, French Open, the weeks sort of seem like they are going along very quickly and you kind of come into this week needing a good week.
It's tough.  The standard of golf is really good on The European Tour and all the guys out there are really good players.  It's not as easy as some of the top guys make it look, but I'm really pleased with this performance and hope I'm going to take it on to next year.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT