PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 20, 2016
Oliver Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  5-under 66, how pleased are you with that?  
OLIVER FISHER: Yeah, really pleased.  I got off to a nice start and then wind was southwesterly, 7 was pretty tough, made double-bogey there but bounced back with birdies on 8 and 9.  Played the back nine solidly and had a few chances and made a few and just bogeyed the last.   
Some of the holes are playing pretty easy.  The flags are accessible but there's a few out there that are still pretty tricky.  I'm pleased with the start.   
I think always around here, you give yourself chances and if you're not too far away with your drives and not too far away with your second shots, you can shoot good scores.  That's why you can see the scoring is so good.  Rough is pretty generous, not too thick and around the greens, it's a little bit patchy in places but generally you can get some pretty good lies and chip pretty well.   
The scores are there for the taking really.  Greens are rolling good.   
 Q.  Is this a course that suits your eye?  
OLIVER FISHER: Yeah, I think we've been coming back here for quite a few years now.  I think most of the guys know it pretty well.   
 Q.  Currently 114 in Race to Dubai, how much is that in the back of your mind?  
OLIVER FISHER: I think we all know where we are on the list and everyone here this week is playing for something, to make Top 60 or Turkey or whatever it would be.  Only way to approach it is going out and do your best and hit your shots and one shot at a time, on to the next one and see where you are at the end really.   
 Q.  You didn't finish the way you wanted to but are there positives to bring into the rest of the week?  
OLIVER FISHER: 18 is always a pretty tough hole and I got a little bit of a jumper out of the rough there which is hard to control.  I think you've just got to keep on going and keep your head down and try and stay patient and hopefully shoot a few more good rounds.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT