BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 23, 2016
Oliver Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How delighted are you with the start here in Germany?
OLIVER FISHER: Very delighted.  The course is obviously pretty wet from the weather they have had lately here.  You've kind of got to hit fairways and hit greens and I've done that today and played well.  Anytime you go bogey-free for 18 holes is a good round.
Q. A lot of talking ahead of this week about how important to take advantage of the par 5s.  So for you, that was absolutely key to your round, wasn't it?
OLIVER FISHER: Yeah, I hit the fairway on every par 5, so I was able to go for the green and hit a couple of irons into them, too.
So anytime you can do that around here, I think kind of gives you a boost.  The guys that hit the fairways and tee-to-green around here generally do pretty well.  Today that's what I've done well, and a round of 66, I'm very pleased.
Q. Got to be accurate off the tee, as you say, because that rough is pretty thick and juicy out there, isn't it?
OLIVER FISHER: Yeah, it is very thick.  You see a lot of guys looking for balls.  It's hard for the spotters even to find them when they come down, just because it's so lush.
The course is in great condition, considering all the rain they have had, the fairways are really good and the greens are great.  Was lucky enough to get out there this morning and have some good greens to roll on.  It was a good day.
Q. Your season to this point, 151 Race to Dubai, obviously fantastic start; what opportunity do you sense around here, marquis event on the Tour?
OLIVER FISHER: BMW are a great sponsor of the Tour and this is a great event, and I look forward to it every year, whether it be at Eichenried or here in Cologne.  This event is great and also French next week and Scottish after that.
We're in for a really good run in the summer, and I think there's some good stuff to look forward to end of year.  I think I've been out here long enough now you realise it's a year-long week, and you have your good weeks; and as long as you keep putting in the work and trying throughout the season, you'll be all right.
Q. So what's your take on a lovely round?  Are you purring inside with a 66?
OLIVER FISHER: Yeah, that was a good draw, out at 7.40.  I think the guys a little bit later out here this week will have slightly bumpier greens to putt on because they are so wet.
I was pleased with that on Tuesday; I played well Tuesday afternoon or Tuesday morning when I played a practise round and feel pretty good about my game right now.  It was a good day and obviously a good score.
Q. I suppose you step out on pretty much a fresh canvas out; the course is there for you.
OLIVER FISHER: Yeah, first off is always a good draw as long as it's warm enough.  It's a very, very warm humid day and it's only going to get hotter as the day goes on, and anything about the ball going the distance, we was okay from the start.  So it's very good conditions this morning and thankfully I took advantage of that.
Q. And you stayed on the fairway, I take it, by and large, to give yourself those opportunities, because you don't want to be off the fairway.
OLIVER FISHER: I've played here enough times to realise that you have to be on the fairway, and you can see it just from standing here, the scores, the brown hay out there is pretty clear to be seen on every hole, and it's in play.  So you've got to drive it well and be in control of your ball and the greens are good this morning, so I managed to hole a couple of putts.
Q. Have you felt in control of late?
OLIVER FISHER: Not really.  I think as long as my attitude's good and I keep trying and keep putting the work in, and realizing that I can actually play the game all right sometimes, and you know, just kind of accepting things a little bit more and then hopefully the scores will come.
I played okay last week.  Played a couple of things back home last week and it's kind of been getting better, so I'm pleased with a good round this morning.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT