UBS HONG KONG OPEN
October 22, 2015
Oliver Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What are your thoughts on 4-under to start?  
OLIVER FISHER: It's a nice start.  I would have taken it before today, that's for sure.  It's always nice playing here in Hong Kong.  The course is good.  I've played it a lot of times.  Played it the first time as a junior, when I was like 14 or 15.  I've been around this place quite a few times over the years, and it's a nice start and hope I can keep it going tomorrow.   
 Q.  That familiarity helps, doesn't it, knowing where to place the ball?  
OLIVER FISHER: I think so.  Around here, it's a course that I think requires a lot of patience.  There's a lot of chances out there and if you're playing well, you can hit a lot of fairways and a lot of greens.  But if you're not on the fairway, it's quite a tricky course and you have to sort of bide your time and sort of I guess -- for me, I didn't play great the first few holes on the back nine but steady away and made a nice birdie on 17 and 18 that sort of got me going a little bit.   
 Q.  18 was particularly special, wasn't it, the approach into there?  
OLIVER FISHER: Yeah, definitely.  I think any time you're on that fairway and on that green, you're happy.   
 Q.  What are your thoughts on your game overall, because we probably haven't seen you up on the leaderboard for a little while?  
OLIVER FISHER: It's not bad.  My game's getting there slowly.  I think I've had a good -- I've had a steady last nine or ten weeks.  I think I made pretty much every cut the last few weeks.  I'm getting there slowly.  Just a matter of doing a few things a little bit better, hitting a few more fairways, hitting a few more greens and make a few more putts.  I guess a little bit of everything to be honest.  My game's not far away.   
 Q.  Sounds like the state of mind is good, as well, with that?  
OLIVER FISHER: Yeah, I think so.  I think that's the only thing you can kind of control really is how you feel in your head.  As long as your attitude's good, it's most of the part done.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT