NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP: REGIONAL FINAL: OREGON ST. VS HOUSTON
March 29, 2021
DeJon Jarreau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
  Houston - 67, Oregon State - 61
 THE MODERATOR:   We're joined by DeJon Jarreau.
 Q. DeJon, first of all, man, just take me through what are you feeling?  What was it like once the final buzzer finally sounded?
 DeJON JARREAU:   Just the relief of all the hard work we've put in to get to this point and just being counted out and doubted.  Just to kind of prove to the world that we belong here.  They tried to say about us playing double seeds, but those double seeds also had to beat a single seed in order to get to this point.  So I'm just very grateful.
 Q. DeJon, you guys talk all the time about the culture of this team and praising all the players.  How much did that culture, that team collective allow you guys to find a way to win this game and reach the Final Four?
 DeJON JARREAU:   Oregon State, great team.  They fought back.  Fought back and kind of had us on our heels, but we were able to get back to our roots and rebound the ball, play defense.
 Like I said, great team.  Just following the scouting report and just believing in our cause.  We started to play harder than them the final couple minutes, and we were able to pull away and make free throws.  Now we have it.
 Q. DeJon, congratulations on the win and advancing to the Final Four.  I'm just curious what your thoughts are with you and your teammate and friend Brison, both being from New Orleans, both going to the same high school, and now both in the Final Four.
 DeJON JARREAU:   Man, I can't even explain the feeling.  Growing up with Brison, we met in the ninth grade.  We've been through everything together -- you know, UMass, left UMass, I attended Big Spring for a year, came to Houston, and now it's our third year at Houston.  It's like a dream come true.
 We always talked about this, being somewhere as a package deal.  To now be in the Final Four together, that's a story worth telling.  I feel like we definitely deserve a 30 for 30 for this.  I'm just happy to have him on my side.  He's my best friend, and the feeling is unexplainable.
 Q. DeJon, when did you first start thinking a moment like this could be possible at Houston?  What does it mean to do this with Coach Sampson as well?
 DeJON JARREAU:   Honestly, two years ago with Corey Davis, Galen Robinson, that group, I thought it was possible, but our hopes were shot when Tyler Herro knocked down that three.  He's a great player to knock us out.
 Even last year I thought we had a shot in the NCAA Tournament, but this year, this whole year, just believing in my teammates.  Those guys believe in me.  I always say they're behind me for whatever.  I'm grateful to be around this group and happy to have Coach Sampson leading us.  Man, he's a great, great coach.
 To get this win on his 1,000th game, man, that's just something just worth talking about and worth living.  I'm happy I'm a part of that.  I'm happy he's my coach.  I'm happy I came back, and the story is still being written.  We're in the Final Four now.
 Q. DeJon, I think of you as a defensive player because you were named Conference Defensive Player of the Year, but the last two games you're almost averaging a triple double.  How have you been able to balance the different aspects of your game over the past month?
 DeJON JARREAU:   My teammates, my coaches, my family just always tell me how gifted I am.  I just go out there every night and just give it my all and just focus on the little things and let everything else happen.  We try to focus on the defensive end first and just let offense take care of itself.
 You know, just playing my game.  Like I said, I love seeing my teammates score the ball, so just trying to distribute, facilitate.  If I'm open, I take my shots.  I rebound, but just playing within myself.  Just playing my game really.
 Q. DeJon, can you get your arms around what you guys have just done?  I mean, you just did something that hasn't been done here in 37 years?  That's almost four decades.  You're making history.  What do you think?
 DeJON JARREAU:   I'm sorry.  I didn't mean to cut you off, but the emotion hasn't even set in yet honestly.  I still feel like we're playing the game.  I think it will set in once we get to the hotel and settle down.  My adrenaline is still rushing.  Man, I'm just grateful to be here.  Like I said, I had my angels leading me.  I'm doing this for my brother Tris.  Man, I'm just grateful.  I'm happy to bring that excitement back to Houston and continue what the Phi Slama Jama did and bring the excitement back to the Houston.
 I love everything about it.  I love the University of Houston.  I love my coaches.  I love my teammates.  And we're here.  The emotion hasn't even set in yet.
 Q. DeJon, when you think about all this -- you know, in 2018/'19, you guys lose in the Sweet 16.  Last year you're out of the tournament.  Now you're in the Final Four.  You said it hasn't set in yet, but just thinking about it, to get to this point, how gratifying is that?
 DeJON JARREAU:   Man, it's like a dream come true.  Growing up, watching the Final Four, watching college basketball, you always think about getting to this point, seeing former players on TV do this.  Like I said, as a kid, I'm watching TV growing up, and I'm like I hope I'll be here one day, and man, I'm really here.
 Never thought I'd see this day, and God has other plans for people.  God has a plan for me and my teammates.  We're here for a reason.  Man, the emotions hasn't set in yet, like I said.  I'm just grateful, man.
 Q. What was it like celebrating after the game without the traditional NCAA Tournament vibe?
 DeJON JARREAU:   It would have been way better if COVID isn't here.  It would have been better without restrictions, but the fans came out and gave us support, and they were loud.  To celebrate with them and also your family in the stands, you get to see them.  You just have to live life the way it is right now, and you just have to be grateful for what you can do, and I'm grateful to be here.
 Just to be here while COVID's here.  Control what you can control, and we're controlling what we can control.  I'm grateful.  That's it.  I'm grateful.  We're in the Final Four with one of the best coaches ever.  Love my teammates, and we're here.
 Q. When you look back at how everything has gone and Coach Sampson sort of -- that message every time about this can happen, that this dream can become a reality.  What do you remember about those early days?  I don't know if there was doubt, but he always sold the same message.
 DeJON JARREAU:   It never really was doubt, just following his plan, and the plan he set in place for us, just going out there every night, playing hard and letting our culture take care of a lot of games, which our culture did today.  Like I said, Oregon State fought back, and our culture took over.
 We got on the offensive glass.  We got extra possessions, and we work on that every day in practice.  All the sprints in June, July, we do that to be here in March, and it was all worth it.
 THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, DeJon, for your time.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT