NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: PADRES v BRAVES
October 11, 1998
Andy Ashby
Bruce Bochy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Could you talk about why you would start Andy over Kevin Brown, using the same logic
in a five-game series?
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: Well, it's Andy's turn. He's a big reason why we're in this situation. And
he's pitching his normal day's rest. And that's why he's out there. Kevin Brown will go
the next day. 
 
Q. What's your thought process as you approach this start?
 
 ANDY ASHBY: I'm going out with the same strategy I've had all year: Just try to go out
and concentrate on what I have to do, take it one pitch at a time, one out at a time, and
try to stay away from the big innings, and keep us in the game where we have a chance to
win. 
 
Q. Was there any thought to make a double-switch when you started the 7th inning when
you brought Joyner in and bring a pitcher along with him?
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: No. I didn't want to make a double-switch. I wanted to keep my options
open, on the pitcher's spot there. And Joey was going to start that inning. And we had
Myers ready, in case he got in trouble and brought him in. But Randy is not the type of
guy I like to use more than one inning, and that's why I didn't make the double-switch. 
 
Q. Andy, as well as you pitched in Game 1, do you find it insulating that you would
even be asked the question of whether Bruce is starting Brown instead of you tomorrow?
 
 ANDY ASHBY: No, I don't find of insulating at all. It's an option you have. It's nice
to know you have Kevin that could come back and pitch tomorrow. But it shows a lot that
they have the confidence in me to throw me out tomorrow. It's my turn. And I want to give
us a chance to win and do my job, and hopefully we'll come out and keep it close so we
have a chance to win and see what happens. 
 
Q. Bruce, you know that Galarraga hasn't had one home one since September. Were you
worried that sooner or later he would find his stroke?
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: Well, he's a good hitter, and we were in a jam there. And I was hoping he
wouldn't find it then, obviously. We had two outs, and that's a big hit that broke our
back tonight. But that was preceded by a couple of breaks, a wild pitch, and the next
thing you know, we were in a jam. Miceli was in a situation after he fell behind, he had
no place to put him, and he got a ball he could handle. 
 
Q. Bruce, the home run at the start of the inning, wasn't that the key? You had taken a
3-2 lead and Joey gave it right back?
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: Well, it was a key, because Leyritz, he had a big home run there to give
us the lead. And I don't know how Lopez hit that ball out, it looked like it was up out of
the zone, but he had enough to get it out. When you score, you like to shut them down, but
we didn't do it tonight. 
 
Q. The bullpen tonight, they've done everything right all postseason and tonight just
didn't get it done. Is that just one of those things?
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: Well, just didn't happen tonight for us. They've been doing a great job,
and we have all the confidence in the world. I know I do, and tonight they couldn't quite
get it done. And the Braves got a couple of breaks, and they got the big home run. But the
bullpen has done a tremendous job, and it's going to happen sometimes. 
 
Q. Bobby said he's going to come back with his same rotation. Are you going to do the
same thing through the rest of the series?
 
 BRUCE BOCHY: Yes, we're staying with our same rotation. Ashby tomorrow, and then Kevin
Brown and Hitchcock. 
 
End of FastScriptsÃƒ ¢?Ã‚ ¦. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT