WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
January 30, 2020
Nate Lashley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How does it feel to play this good in kind of your own backyard in a way?  
NATE LASHLEY: Yeah, it's, I've been in Phoenix for 15 years, went to college out here, so it feels good to get off to a nice start. It's kind of a hometown event for me and I wanted to come out and play well with friends and family around. So it's a great start, hopefully it can continue on through the next three days.   
 Q.  What do you most enjoy about this tournament?  
NATE LASHLEY: Well, it's different. I mean, it's the first time I've played in it, so it's, 16, 17, kind of nerve wracking shots, really, because you don't want to get booed. But I think you just got to go out and just try to hit good shots and kind of wash out the noise and wash out all the distractions that are going on and just try to play some golf.   
 Q.  Do you have friend and family here today with you, following you along?  
NATE LASHLEY: Yeah, I had a lot of friends and family out watching today. It was great. It was nice to make some birdies for them and have a good round.   
 Q.  Any fond memories of coming out here as a fan watching on 16 or anything like that?  
NATE LASHLEY: Yeah, I mean I've been out here numerous years, watched the tournament, and it's always been a dream to play in it, so it's great to be out here, a lot of fun. Waste Management and the Thunderbirds put on such a great tournament that it's just, it's unlike any other event that you'll ever play. It's a lot of fun.   
 Q.  Were you one of the rowdy ones on 16 when you used to sit back and watch it?  
NATE LASHLEY: No, I wasn't. I was, I tried to be somewhat respectful. But I don't know, who knows, some of those days you don't remember.   
 Q.  Your shot on 16, do you expect that to be a little bit rowdier tomorrow?  
NATE LASHLEY: I'm sure. You know, it's Friday and going to be a little later in the day, people will have a few more drinks in them, so yeah, it will be wild tomorrow. And just like I said, hopefully hit a good shot there and then have some fun.   
 Q.  Any favorite memories from you coming out here as a fan, as a kid and things like that?  
NATE LASHLEY: Not anything that particularly stands out, but just the crowds and the atmosphere, it's just, it's a great atmosphere, it's a lot of fun and I think the next three days I'm just going to enjoy and enjoy the walk.   
 Q.  Talk about your round today and what you thought, just assess your round, what you thought of it today.  
NATE LASHLEY: 5-under was really good because I have been struggling a little bit with some injuries. But I got it in the fairway today, I hit some close shots, I had two or three tap-ins for birdie. But I kind of managed it around today, kept it in the fairway, and when I missed the fairway, I was able to get it on the green or around the green in good spots. So I'm not playing great, you know, that's tough to say when you shoot 5-under because 5-under is a great score, but really I just kind of managed it around today and shot a good score.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT