A MILITARY TRIBUTE AT THE GREENBRIER
September 14, 2019
Nate Lashley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great playing today. Got off to that great start. Got to the back nine and looked like conditions may have got a little tougher.  
NATE LASHLEY: Yeah, I mean, I just played a little better on the front nine. Greens were firming up out there a little bit today and you had to hit some quality shots on the back nine to get it close to the pins. Made some bogeys.   
Yeah, it's firming up out there. It's getting tougher.   
 Q.  Got lucky with the hole-out there at 17 for eagle, but a little unlucky with your tee shot on 18 as the winds came up. I know no one likes to finish with a three-putt, but got to be pretty pleased with your play.  
NATE LASHLEY: Yeah, definitely pleased. You know, shoot 5-under on the weekend just about anywhere that's a good round. Yeah, pleased with my round. Hitting the ball well; putting well. Take it in tomorrow and see what happens.   
 Q.  May be me, but I got to believe your win at Detroit Golf Club, similar type golf course, a little more elevation, but similar strategy on the golf course.  
NATE LASHLEY: I mean, yeah. Strategy: hit fairways, hit greens, and try to make birdies.   
Yeah, that's strategy-wise it is a similar golf course, but it's kind of like that every week. If you're hitting it well, making putts, you're going to have a chance to be in contention. That's what I'm doing this week.   
 Q.  Probably not the finish you were looking for after the eagle at 17 to bogey the last with a three-putt, but overall you have to be pretty happy to be in contention after three rounds.  
NATE LASHLEY: Yeah, definitely. I've played well. I've putted well this week. Hitting the ball well. I hit some couple poor shots today, but got away with it most of the time. Chipped in a couple times. Any time you chip in twice in a row usually going to shoot a good score.   
I'm pleased with my round. Just try to take this into tomorrow and see what happens.   
 Q.  Fact that you were able to start very well on the front nine, how was that in terms of just getting into the groove? What allowed you to be successful on that front nine specifically?  
NATE LASHLEY: Yeah, I chipped in on 2 and I made some nice putts on 4 and 5, I believe. But when you're making putts like that, 15, 20-footers, usually going to shoot good scores.   
Like I said, I been hitting it well, so hopefully can continue that into tomorrow.   
 Q.  The course yielded some super low rounds yesterday; not so today. Why is that, and do you think it will carry over into tomorrow?  
NATE LASHLEY: Course is firming up. The greens are definitely getting quite a bit firmer, so it's going to be tougher to score when the ball is bouncing. My ball there on 18 right there, just probably took a good 10-, 12-yard bounce to the back of the green.   
Then in these greens they have a lot of slope so you're going to have tough putts. When the greens firm up this course plays the way it's supposed to be, and a little bit tougher, the way a PGA TOUR event is made to be played.   
 Q.  Is there a different mentality going into tomorrow in contention now that you're a PGA TOUR winner versus before you had that win?  
NATE LASHLEY: My mentality is I'm definitely a lot more relaxed. I'm just playing. Just trying to take that as experience, the way I played in Detroit. You know, I really just kind of kept to myself that week and really just focused and tried to block everything else out.   
I feel like I've done a good job of that so far. Today I didn't really - I was in contention. I was, I don't know, top 15 or whatever, but good round today, and now have a chance tomorrow to go out and win.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT