U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 13, 2019
Nate Lashley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
NATE LASHLEY: I mean, couldn't have went much better, to be honest with you.  I hit the ball great.  I made some putts when I needed to.  Just a really solid round.  It was nice to come out.  I felt comfortable.  I really like Pebble Beach.  It's great being here, and just a lot of fun and a good round.   
 Q.  Have you played the Pro-Am before?  
NATE LASHLEY: Yeah, I played the AT&T a couple years.   
 Q.  Did it help kind of knowing -- kind of the set lines you kind of see, even the course is a lot different in June than it is in February?  
NATE LASHLEY: Oh, yeah, definitely.  I mean, probably got seven or eight rounds out here now.  It definitely helps, especially with the greens.  The slope the greens have, you kind of know where to miss it and where to be.   
And also with lines off tees, because there's a lot of blind tee shots.  But, yeah, the experience from the last couple years at AT&T has helped a lot, yeah.   
 Q.  You're 36 years old, you've been at this for a long time.  How special is it to finally make it to a U.S. Open and to do it the way (indiscernible)?  
NATE LASHLEY: Yeah, I mean, anytime you get to play a U.S. Open, it's special.  Doesn't matter who you are.  And then also being at Pebble, probably one of the most iconic courses in the world.   
So, again, to play a U.S. Open here is very special, and I'm just looking forward to it and going to have some fun.   
 Q.  How's the knee doing?  Last year a knee injury, and playing this year (indiscernible)?  
NATE LASHLEY: Yeah, my knee, it's fine.  It was just a minor meniscus tear.  They scoped it, and it feels great now.   
 Q.  Speak about the fact that you're in your first Open, maybe discuss the emotions that you're going through being here and the circumstances you've been through and gotten to this point.  
NATE LASHLEY: Yeah, I mean, emotions-wise, today was pretty relaxing on the course.  It was nice.  Just played some golf.  Like I said, I really like being here at Pebble.  You can't beat this place.  And I feel comfortable on the course now.  I've played it enough.   
So hopefully I can just kind of maintain that mentality and attitude for the rest of the week and then see what happens.   
 Q.  What is the key to maintaining that?  
NATE LASHLEY: That's a good question.  If you figure that out, you let me know.  I think it's kind of what you hear from a lot of guys, you stay in your routine, try and block out the excess noise, and then spectators sometimes, and then just try to play golf and block everything out that you can.   
 Q.  What kind of galleries are you getting?  Who's giving you the lift, the boost?  
NATE LASHLEY: Who's giving me a boost?   
 Q.  Yeah.  
NATE LASHLEY: Well, I mean, there's the galleries on every hole.  When you make a nice putt, you get a nice cheer.  I chipped in on 3 and got a really nice applause, and so that was great.  That was a lot of fun.  That's definitely the loudest I've ever got for one of my shots, which that was great.  It was a lot of fun.   
Just look forward to the rest of the week and hopefully can continue to play well.   
 Q.  Psychological preparation for a U.S. Open, you know what you have to do physically, but what about the mental approach, knowing this was the first time you're going to be here, even if it is a course that you really like?  
NATE LASHLEY: You know, psychologically, I'm just trying to approach it like another golf tournament and just come out and play golf and stay in my routine and take it one shot at a time and see what happens at the end of the round.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT