U.S. GIRLS' JUNIOR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 28, 2017
Erica Shepherd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. That was crazy.
ERICA SHEPHERD: Well, it doesn't feel like a win right now, like at all.  So it's kind of hard to talk.  You want me to talk about what happened on the last hole?
Q. Yeah, talk about the 19th hole?
ERICA SHEPHERD: So I made my five.  I hit my putt to a couple inches.  She gave it to me.  She had like a 5-, 6-footer for birdie.  And so I closed my eyes, because I thought she would just make it because she had been playing good all day.
I close my eyes and when I hear that the ball doesn't drop, I finally open my eyes and she's already like dragging the ball back.  And so I was like kind of turned away, and then I stood there and looked around.
And then like my coach was like, "Did you give that to her?"
I was like, "No."
And then so I said like, "I don't think I gave that to you."  Then I said like, "I totally would have given that to you, no doubt."
So I thought that since I would have given to her, it would be just like, fine.  But then the rules lady said that since she moved it before conceded, like there's no like after-the-fact.  So I mean --
Q. So you didn't even get to putt your last putt?
ERICA SHEPHERD: No.  She gave me my last putt.
Q. She gave you your last putt?
ERICA SHEPHERD: Yeah.  Isn't that crazy.
Q. Well, you would have won anyway, right?
ERICA SHEPHERD: No.  She had a putt for birdie.  I made four.  She gave me my putt for par.
Q. Well, you're moving on after a really long match, regardless.  It was a very intense match the whole time, up and down.  Just talk about the general up-and-down of how that went.  It was like birdie, birdie, birdie, birdie, birdie?
ERICA SHEPHERD: I really hit it good all day.  I didn't hit my drives that well.  I was kind of in the trees.  But she made a lot of birdie putts.  She played really well.  She putted really well.  So I had to just keep on coming back with the birdies, making birdies myself.
Q. Is there a hole that stands out for you at all?  It really was so tight the whole time.
ERICA SHEPHERD: Yeah, I mean, 14, we played that hole twice.  So 14, if I could have -- I went for it both times, and I get on the green either time, I could easily have -- if I just would have done that, it would have been a lot easier.
Q. So how do you walk away feeling about this, how it transpired?
ERICA SHEPHERD: I feel awful and I feel like I lost and I want to cry.  I feel bad for her but I couldn't do anything.
Q. What was kind of the mood, just kind of accept it?
ERICA SHEPHERD: I don't know.  I mean, we both tried to get it to where that putt was given to her but it just -- it's the Rules of Golf.  You can't.
Q. Have you ever had anything close to anything like that?
ERICA SHEPHERD: A couple weeks ago, I had 15 clubs in my bag.  Someone put their's in my bag.  So we went like 5-down in our match, so that happened.  But nothing like this.  Quarterfinals of the U.S. Girls' Junior, that's going to sting for a long time.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT