AUGUSTA NATIONAL WOMEN'S AMATEUR
April 2, 2021
Erica Shepherd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  Q. How did it feel out there today compared with your first experience two years ago?
 ERICA SHEPHERD:   Yeah, it's obviously super awesome to be back. It's cool because on the tee boxes I would be trying to figure out my line off the tee and I would see what I saw last year and like remember writing down the same exact line. So it's cool how your brain works that way and obviously it was two years ago but I still have a very vivid memory of my time here so that's awesome.
 Q. Was there a difference going into Champions Retreat about having the lowest score versus making sure you get there to play on Saturday?
 ERICA SHEPHERD:   I was definitely trying to get in the top 30 coming in. I had no expectations because it was the inaugural event. Didn't really know how it was going to be or how exciting it was going to be. So after having been there, and done that, I think I put even more pressure on myself this year to get back just because of how amazing of an experience it was and just how proud I was to have been a part of that day when Kupcho won and how special that was. Definitely a lot of pressure both years but especially this one.
 Q. 30 degrees difference. How did the golf course play today?
 ERICA SHEPHERD:   So 30 degrees difference; it's about 30 yards off the tee where I was. I had a lot more long irons and obviously when it's cold just your feel isn't as good. That's tough but I'm from the north and it's been kind of a brutal spring so far and I've played in a lot of similar conditions.
 Q. Did you reach the par 5s in two?
 ERICA SHEPHERD:   I couldn't reach any par 5s this year but last year I think I could have went for all of them last year. That just shows how big of a difference the temperature can play. I think tomorrow if it's just a few degrees warmer, 15 is definitely reachable and the par 3s I had mainly 4- or 5-iron, and I know last year was around 7-iron, 8-irons, even. We'll see what happens tomorrow.
 Q. Not having grandstands --
 ERICA SHEPHERD:   I didn't even notice. The TV towers made it feel like there was something special going on for me. When you're aiming at a TV tower for your lines, you know it's a pretty big event.
 Now that I'm thinking about it, yeah, I remember -- probably my best memory from the ANWA, one of my best ones two years ago was seeing all the patrons come in on the tournament day. So I don't know how that's going to look tomorrow or how the course is going to look different but if there's not as many people here it will definitely look different and probably have a different vibe but it's still Augusta National.
 Q. How far back do you think is too far back tomorrow?
 ERICA SHEPHERD:   As far as like catching up with the leaders, I thought about that. I think anything is possible, especially out here. You can go low out here. If you have the lines on putts, you aren't going to hit a bump or anything and it's going to go off line. I think anything is possible. Scores aren't as low this year obviously because of how tough the conditions were. Yeah, anything.
 Q. Do you remember how far back --
 ERICA SHEPHERD:   I do not remember. I remember seeing myself tied on the leaderboard on 10 green and that was pretty special.
 Q. Did you find yourself watching the Masters any differently in 2019 having just played it?
 ERICA SHEPHERD:   I feel bad for the people I watched it with because I was like, guys, you won't believe how much slope is actually out here, like you won't believe how much slower 12 green is, kind of like acting like I know this course like the back of my hand. So definitely different watching it. Yeah, just makes it even cooler.
 Q. Like a TV commentator.
 ERICA SHEPHERD:   Yeah, unfortunately.
 Q. The girls playing here Saturday and then having -- do you have a sense of how many more girls are participating in golf?
 ERICA SHEPHERD:   That makes me so happy and just to see the game grow and to see the impact the event two years ago had on women's golf and to see how fast that's turning around is awesome. I think Augusta National is really leading the charge in that area.
 It's just super cool to be a part of and hopefully more girls watch the event this year and be even further inspired.
 Q. How does the pressure here different than some of the other big tournaments that you've played?
 ERICA SHEPHERD:   Yeah, someone was asking me yesterday how it compares to U.S. Opens and as far as course setup-wise and toughness, it's right up there if not harder. So there's that. But also just the fans that were out here two years ago and the support that was around this event, it really doesn't get much better than this and I think that this is a good starting point to go into the future with how we can see how much support can be around women's golf. So I'm just taking that and running with it really.
 Q. For an event in its second year, is it possible to say what its position is on the amateur calendar?
 ERICA SHEPHERD:   Oh, yeah, No. 1 for sure.
 Q. Ahead of the U.S. Women's Amateur?
 ERICA SHEPHERD:   Personally I think so just because of the venue, doesn't get better.
 Q. What was so special about 2019 and being part of it as the first?
 ERICA SHEPHERD:   I would just say always being able to say that I was there for the first one.  And I think in like 20 years, we can look back on this event and say that was a turning point in women's golf, and to be a part of that -- I think the support and the fans that were all about this event two years ago was just something that I never really expected because I've played in LPGA events and played in U.S. Opens and sometimes I've been disappointed of how little fans there are out there. And so just to kind of see that, all the support out here that really made me happy.
 Q. You probably heard about from people once you were home, probably heard about it more than any event you'd ever played, the questions?
 ERICA SHEPHERD:   Yeah, like way more than any U.S. Opens, U.S. Ams, anything.
 Q. What was your favorite thing to tell them?
 ERICA SHEPHERD:   Honestly just the atmosphere. It's hard to describe because courses that you play, like you play other PGA TOUR stops and it's better on TV than it is in person but out here, it's so much better in person. Just, yeah, it's crazy. So no one will ever understand that unless they are here so that's kind of what you try to explain to them.
 Q. What impresses you about --
 ERICA SHEPHERD:   Yeah, she's doing great. I totally would bet on her to win Saturday.  She's got it in here. She's kind of struggled a little bit beginning this spring season, whether it's been putting or whatever, so nothing's really come together yet for her and I think that's happening this week. I think it could be a really special day for her tomorrow. So I'm excited for that.
 Q. How well do you know her?
 ERICA SHEPHERD:   So well, yeah. I've played with Gina starting when I was 15, 16 in AJGA and we played some Solheim Cup together and we were partners in that. I know Gina very well.
 Q. What impresses you about her game?
 ERICA SHEPHERD:   I would say just her determination, honestly. I know that's kind of a boring answer but if she isn't happy with something in her game, that's going to be the strongest part of her game the next week. So she really gets after it.
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT