AUGUSTA NATIONAL WOMEN'S AMATEUR
April 1, 2021
Erica Shepherd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  Q. So today is kind of the nervy day.  I don't know what you might have learned from two years ago.  Did you approach today any differently?
 ERICA SHEPHERD:   Just from like the previous course knowledge that I got from two years ago, but other than that, I kind of put myself in the same exact position as I did two years ago.  So kind of had the same feeling heading down the last hole.  I guess that experience from being there two years ago may have helped me a little bit, but yeah.
 Q. You avoided the playoff today, though?
 ERICA SHEPHERD:   Yes, barely.
 Q. How close were you?
 ERICA SHEPHERD:   By one, I think.
 Q. Can you talk about 18, the approach in and how you kind of played that hole.
 ERICA SHEPHERD:   Yeah, I laid up, and when I got up to the green, I realized that I probably could have went for it.  Yeah, just had a 62-yard shot, usually my money shot, but it didn't go as planned.  Left myself a little short and then left myself a super downhill slider.  Luckily two-putted and made bogey, and it looks like that will be enough.
 Q. What did you hit on your second shot?
 ERICA SHEPHERD:   I hit a knock-down 5 iron, so like a 170 layup.
 Q. And if you would have gone for the green, what could you have hit?
 ERICA SHEPHERD:   I could have gotten there with 3 wood, I think.
 Q. Back nine sounds like it's playing a lot more challenging.
 ERICA SHEPHERD:   For sure.
 Q. What did you think on the different nines?
 ERICA SHEPHERD:   Yeah, I think that the front nine is a little more -- you're either out in the open so you know the wind, or you're just completely blocked.  But out here on the back nine, it just swirled around the trees the whole time.  I was confused on a lot of shots, honestly, on what the wind was doing, but that's part of the game and a challenge for sure.
 Q. You were one who got to play at Augusta National two years ago.
 ERICA SHEPHERD:   Yeah.
 Q. How much did that shape your desire coming back or your mindset coming back or wanting to get back there?
 ERICA SHEPHERD:   A lot.  Just to see in person how it's actually better than it is on TV and just being part of that experience and to see how much that did for women's golf and just to have been there, just kind of that pressure that I put on myself to get back, it's kind of a relief to know that that's secured now.
 Q. A lot of Duke players here.  How much time do you spend outside of the tournament or talk like you would if this were a team event?
 ERICA SHEPHERD:   In COVID, it's a little weird.  I don't want to get in trouble.  Yeah, it's definitely cool to have them here and have the coaches here to support us.  We talked a little bit about the yardage books and just some little things, but other than that, yeah, we're just kind of doing our same thing.  It kind of feels like a college event with everyone out here, but it's a good time.
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT