U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR FOUR-BALL CHAMPIONSHIP
April 29, 2019
Erica Shepherd
Megan Furtney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. It was a nice start to match play for you.  Obviously stroke play was good, but it was a nice start to match play.  How did you get this thing jump started to come up with such a convincing win?
ERICA SHEPHERD: I think the first two days we struggled with the starting holes, 1 through 3, and today we really took advantage of those and just played steady golf through those.
When I started playing bad Meghan had my back.  There was a couple holes coming in where we just had to cover each other, and that's what we did.  I think that we've got to refocus tomorrow because it's not going to be as easy tomorrow.
Just got to refocus and have different expectations.
Q. Yeah.  Matches where par can win the hole happened few times today.  (Wind interference.)  At the same time, par is a really good score out here.  How has the course changed over the three days?
MEGAN FURTNEY: I would say the biggest change we noticed is like today the pin placements.  They made the greens a lot harder and like attacking pins because they were tucking a lot more behind bunkers.  So that something was a bit more of a challenge.
Off the tee we've done a pretty good job keeping the same strategy and not really changing that.  Probably going to stay on that same path for our match tomorrow as well.
Q. With the pins being a little less accessible, have you gotten into an, Okay, I'll hit center od the green and you go for it, and has that been one person or the other or based on where you are in the fairway?
ERICA SHEPHERD: Yeah, I like to hit first every time so Meghan can just kind of plan based on where I go, if she needs to play safe or if she can attack.  I think that's benefitted us this week.
Q. And you've done that no matter who is away?
ERICA SHEPHERD: For the most part, yeah.
Q. Does that mean you're the more aggressive player?
ERICA SHEPHERD: Yeah.
Q. I thought that might be the case.  (Laughter.)  How does the strategy change?  You made a semifinal in this before; gotten very close.  It's a long haul, right?  Tomorrow if you get through it's two more rounds of golf.  How hard is it to keep your focus mentally, physically?
ERICA SHEPHERD: I would say we do a pretty good job keeping each other in check.  We both make sure that we don't try to get too far ahead of ourselves.  It's a lot of golf if you think about making finals.  We really just try to take it one shot at a time and just always talk each other through things on the golf course, and that helps keep us present and the moment.
Q. Last year at L Cab, do you feel you had a little unfinished business?
ERICA SHEPHERD: Yeah, definitely still upset about what happened last year.  I think we have a little -- we're seeking revenge this year.  Keep on playing for revenge.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT