OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 27, 2021
Lucas Herbert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q You walk in, faces of all the past champions here, Tiger is there, Ernie Els, what's it like seeing your face up there with those type of names?
 LUCAS HERBERT:   Yeah, it's pretty cool.  Yeah, to get your name obviously on the trophy with those other names and then to see the other photos of all the other players that have won here and obviously had success here, it's like it's pretty cool to sort of add to that list.
 And even the past 12 months it feels like -- it almost feels like a European Tour major I've won.  Everyone seems to recognise the fact that I won the OMEGA Dubai Desert Classic.  Seems like such an iconic event on The European Tour, so it's pretty cool.
 Q Is there a spring in your step knowing you've done well around this course?
 LUCAS HERBERT:   Yeah, for sure the fact that I'm defending champion, it's just good vibes at this place.  I played well here in years gone by and yeah, I feel like it's just a golf course that sets up really well for me and it's just a really cool skyline there with Dubai right here and there's just so much to enjoy about this place.
 Q You worked hard to get into that playoff with those two birdies at the end.  What was your thoughts heading into that playoff?
 LUCAS HERBERT:   I felt pretty confident.  I knew that I was probably going to be longer than Christian off the tee, so going for the green in two was probably going to be more of an option for me than it was for him.
 I felt confident but it's just when it comes down to one hole to decide a tournament, you can't really expect it to go your way every single time, so there's plenty of nerves going.
 Q The first hole, you said it was the worst shot you ever hit.  Still rate it as the worst shot you've ever hit in the water?
 LUCAS HERBERT:   It's probably up there, but that was probably finding lines to say that weren't going to get me fined from the Tour, as well.  Yeah, it wasn't one to remember that shot but to follow it up with the next shot was very pleasing.
 Q What's the win done for your career?
 LUCAS HERBERT:   It's done a lot in terms of like my confidence has gone sky-high pretty much since I won here last year, and felt like it could propel me through the rest of the year.  Just felt like I was a different golfer after winning here.  Financially it was a great help.
 Obviously with some starts you get off the back of winning this event and winning -- and being a highly ranked player and Race to Dubai points and everything like that, yeah, I'm still feeling the flowing effects from it now, which is great.
 Q In Abu Dhabi last week, you seemed to strike the ball well on the range and through the first couple of rounds.  Do you feel confident headed to this year?
 LUCAS HERBERT:   Yeah, I feel like when I come out here in Europe, I'm definitely a good enough player to be able to win any week.  I feel like if I'm not contending, then probably something's not going right with my game.
 So yeah, I've got that inner confidence to know that's where I deserve to be every week, and yeah, it's a nice feeling to come out here and have that.
 Q What about Dubai as a city I don't know how much time you've spent out here, but what a place to come and play golf.
 LUCAS HERBERT:   I love it.  This year it's almost frustrating being in a bubble.  We can't go out and enjoy it at nighttime or anything but I'm sure after we are done on Sunday I'll go and check it out, because yeah, I love being here.  It's such a great spot in the desert.  It uses the Marina there so well, the skyline, the restaurants, the cars that drive past.  I think it's just an awesome place to be.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT