ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS SCOTTISH OPEN
October 2, 2020
Lucas Herbert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Two very good days' work.  Tell us about how pleased you are with the way you're playing.
 LUCAS HERBERT:   Yeah, I'm pretty happy.  To be honest I turned up here on Wednesday and hit it all over the place.  Sort of not really expecting too much the last few days, but it's kind of all come together nicely, and yeah, pretty happy.
 Q. What's been good?  What part of your game are you pleased with?
 LUCAS HERBERT:   Iron play has been really good.  Yeah, honestly, I've not really had to rely on the other parts of my game too much, which I usually do, but yeah, iron play has been great.  I've given myself a lot of chances, could have easily been another four or five putter if I had have rolled more putts in, but that's just been great, which has taken the pressure off, and I haven't had to get it up-and-down from ball washers to try and save pars.
 Q. A lot of the game is played in the air, not as much here, but there's also a lot of strategy about rolling and ball the shaping the ball.  Do you like the challenge of links golf?
 LUCAS HERBERT:   Yeah, I do.  Links golf is a lot of fun, and yeah, it's definitely a different challenge from probably what we play most of the year.  I mean, it takes some imagination, and I feel like I've got a fair bit of that, so yeah, it's good fun.  You come back here every year and you kind of learn new things and add to your knowledge about the golf course, things that you just don't spot the first time around, so the more times you can play it the better.
 Q. Imagination and the confidence of playing well and confidence of winning, that's going to make you more confident going into the weekend?
 LUCAS HERBERT:   Yeah, still a long way to go.  Just got to make sure that's kind of my focus for the weekend is there still is a long way to go.  Two rounds of level par are not going to get it done unless that weather gets pretty bad, which it might, but I would say I'm still going to have to keep the foot on the accelerator and try and take it pretty low on the weekend because there's some birdies out there.
 Q. Rolex Series, it would be fantastic to add that to your CV, wouldn't it, a Rolex Series victory.
 LUCAS HERBERT:   Yeah, it would.  A second victory would be great at the moment, but yeah, Rolex Series would be pretty cool.  I would like to look at Johnny walking around with a gold caddie bib on, so I think, yeah, that's definitely something that I'd like to do.  Really haven't played that well in the Rolex Series so far in my career, so it would be a good step forward this week to put in a good result, whether it's a win or whether it's a top 10 or a top 20.  I think that would be a good step forward.
 Q. It could be a bit wet tomorrow, so the bag is going to be a bit heavier?
 LUCAS HERBERT:   I'd say the bag would be lighter tomorrow because we'll have everything on.  I think today is when it's probably the heaviest it's going to be with all sorts of layers in the bag.  But yeah, I mean, wet weather golf, completely different.  You obviously need a lot of help from the caddie.  Yeah, we'll be getting ready for that, and I think just a lot of patience out there, as well.  If it is as bad as what it's forecast, it's going to be a grind out there and just make sure we don't get too upset with making bogeys and try and keep the big numbers off the card.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT