OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 26, 2020
Lucas Herbert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Your first win as a professional has come at one of the most iconic tournaments on The European Tour. You've come close before. What does this win mean to you?  
LUCAS HERBERT: The last ten minutes feel like I've been dreaming. It's so weird. It's awesome. It's just the best thing ever. It is so good. We've got a bottle of Scotch at home to celebrate, so I can't wait to get into that with the boys.   
 Q.  The playoff, so dramatic. You hit it in the water and you hit an incredible pitch shot to keep it going and then obviously make that quality 4 there. I know you've been working hard on the mental side and how to deal with pressure. Tell us about that and what the key to doing that today was.  
LUCAS HERBERT: Yeah, last week, I was probably like 20th going into the weekend, and probably like for the 10th time in the last 12 months seemed to just back it out and finish at the back of the field. We got really frustrated so put in some really good tactics this week with my mental coach, Jamie Glazier, trying to be positive and a lot of positive stuff. It's so cliché, but it works so much. I felt so confident out there and just felt like good golf was going to come.   
I spoke to him just before the playoff, and we talked about the fact that I hit some really poor shots out there today. Obviously the second shot on the first playoff hole, probably not one of my best, but you know, you go back and watch any sort of winners, final nine holes, final round, playoff holes, it's never a perfect scenario. Everyone always hits bad shots and everyone will probably forget about that now that I've just gotten that up-and-down and won a tournament.   
 Q.  Exempt now until the end of 2022. Top 80 in the World Rankings. With this to build on, what do you think you're capable of?  
LUCAS HERBERT: Hangover tomorrow. It's too much to think about right now.   
I mean, I know everyone back home is going to be still up, so obviously there's some pretty awful stuff happening right now in Australia with the fires; and Cam Smith sort of said it a couple weeks ago when he won, and I'd like to say the same thing. Everyone around the world is behind us and hopefully we can keep fighting harder than what I did on the first playoff hole. That's nothing compared to the firefighters and volunteers putting out the fires. Sending all my love back home and hope everyone is well, and thanks for the support.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT