OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 26, 2020
Lucas Herbert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Final round 68, incredible given the conditions.  
LUCAS HERBERT: Yeah, started off with a bogey and worried about where that was going to take me for the day. Just played nice, solid golf. Goal at the start of the day was anything under par is going to be a really good score. You know, same plan all week.   
Just manage my game around and give myself chances to get it up-and-down when you do miss the greens because it is so tough out there. We just did that so well, and a few putts managed to go in here and there and I managed to pull off some pretty good shots when I needed to, so really good feeling standing here at the moment.   
 Q.  How aware were you what was happening on the back nine with regards to the leaderboard? Christian was making a run at some point?  
LUCAS HERBERT: Yeah, I had an eye on the leaderboard sort of all day. Just kind of positioning-wise, I would love to finish in the top five. Last year, I think I finished sixth. Finish up there this year would be great. So just had a bit of an eye on that to see if I was climbing up.   
Yeah, we saw he was 10-under -- we were walking off 17 green. They were a bit ahead of us and we heard a cheer on 18. We both kind of thought, oh, he's made birdie on 18 and that's the tournament; fair play to him.   
Hit my second shot into the last, and walked off and saw the screen on the right-hand side, and we both sort of had a double look and asked each other, is that right, has he made bogey on the last. Yeah, give us a chance hopefully and fingers crossed that something comes of it, but there's some birdie chances coming in on the back nine. 17, 18, obviously gives the guys out there a good chance.   
Wouldn't be surprised if they make one or two coming in and get past us, but if not, I've still had a great day.   
 Q.  Bryson is there with you tied at 9-under. As it stands, relatively cold putter today. I don't think he'll be playing those last two holes conservatively?  
LUCAS HERBERT: He's got everything to play for, doesn't he. There's no pressure on him in terms of keeping a card out here in Europe. He's a Top-10 player in the world. He wants to win. There will be no doubt he will be very aggressive coming in. He wants to win. There's no sort of want-to-finish-top-five for him.   
Look, I don't know, I haven't seen any of his play today. It wouldn't surprise me if he makes birdies coming in, but it's playing tough out there. 15 and 16 are equally as tough as 17 and 18 are easy. See how we go.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT