OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 25, 2019
Lucas Herbert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You got off to a really fast start, 4-under after three holes.  Just tell us about that stretch.
LUCAS HERBERT: Yeah, obviously I sort of kept a bit of an eye on the scores this morning, and even looking at yesterday, everyone is making those numbers around the back nine.  You've obviously got the three par-5s, and 17 is drivable, so there's some good birdie opportunities.  I knew I just had to take advantage of them straight out of the gate.  I did that with an eagle-birdie-birdie start, and kind of just kept flowing.  I was like 7-under through about 11 holes, and it just felt like I was cruising.  I probably left some out there to be honest.  Yeah, and then obviously 40-footer on the last there to finish off with a par was pretty nice.
Q. Yeah, we thought that was a birdie for one second, but there was a penalty drop in there, wasn't there?
LUCAS HERBERT: Yeah, unfortunately probably the worst shot of the week so far off the tee there and hit it left in the hazard so needed to drop one.  Yeah, made a good 4.
Q. First visit here; when you saw the course the first time around, did you think, this suits my style of play?
LUCAS HERBERT: Yeah, a lot of left to right holes out there, so that suits me perfectly, just bombing that draw out there.  You know, those par-5s are awesome.  I think they're such good holes, and if you get it in play off the tee you can really take advantage of them and get around the green in two.  When you drive it in the fairway, you've got a good chance to do that.
Q. Five top 5s for you last year in your rookie year.  What sort of goals and expectations have you got for this year?
LUCAS HERBERT: Yeah, well, something like last year would be pretty good, and if we can improve on a few of those results, that would be great.  Obviously I'm going to play in some bigger events this year.  With locking up my card, I can now play the Rolex events, and that's going to bring a new challenge, playing against harder players for a lot more money.  You know, five top 5s again, I'd be pretty happy with that with the schedule I've got.  But if we just keep ticking off the right processes and keep improving, I can't go too far wrong.
Q. Incredible 63 here in Dubai.  Tell us how you started; it was a crazy start, 4-under after three.
LUCAS HERBERT: Yeah, it was kind of funny, like I thought early on I really had to take advantage of those first few holes.  Three par-5s on the back nine, and you've got a few tougher holes on that front nine, so most of the scoring is coming from that back nine.  I thought if I could take advantage early and really be sharp from that first tee shot, we'd be able to have a pretty good score, and obviously I did that.  Yeah, hacked one out of the rough on 12 pretty close, and all of a sudden you're like 4-under, and I felt like I had just teed off.
Q. We catch you there coming down the 18th, the ninth hole, your 18th.  Almost looked like a long birdie putt but it was a par.  Tell us what happened there.
LUCAS HERBERT: Yeah, worst shot of the week.  Off the tee there, left into the hazard, and had to drop one, so hit a really nice approach shot for my third back there to like 40 feet, and I was trying to cosy that one down nice and close and managed to get the read spot on, and in she went.
Q. We see a lot of rookies on the European Tour maybe a little bit intimidated and it takes a while to get their feet wet.  A handful of top 5s last year.  What are your sights set on this year?
LUCAS HERBERT: I mean, if I could have another five top 5s, that would be pretty good, given this year we're going to get some really good opportunities to play the Rolex events, and I'd love to play some majors and WGCs if that comes up, as well.  If we can have a few more top 5s then I think we're not doing too much wrong.  Yeah, and if I can give myself a good chance at the end of the year to play those three playoff events and improve the World Ranking, play more majors, get more experiences but just keep improving, as well, I think we'll tick it off as a successful year.
Q. Do you see two more rounds like you've just played?
LUCAS HERBERT: I haven't got enough of a look at the weather forecast to see what it's going to do over the weekend.  I mean, I don't expect to shoot another two 63s out there.  I think today was some of the really good golf that I can play, and it's going to be hard to replicate that.  But if I just -- so cliché, you just keep putting one foot in front of the other, I won't be doing too much wrong.  Keep the bogeys off the card, try and pick off those par-5s to birdie, and I don't think we'll be too far away from it Sunday afternoon.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT