SKY SPORTS BRITISH MASTERS
October 14, 2018
Lucas Herbert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Very well played, slightly different conditions.  You really took advantage early.  
LUCAS HERBERT: Yeah, that front nine played a lot different today.  The whole week, those kind of first five holes, first six holes, really, had been into the wind and had played really tricky.   
Today we got them downwind and like you said, I was able to capitalise early and sort of get off to a good start, which I probably needed if I was ever really going to be a chance to catch Eddie.   
Yeah, just obviously around the turn there, it was pretty difficult.  I drove it over the back of the green on 10 yesterday and then I hit 5-iron in for my second today.  Playing quite different and it was quite tough.   
 Q.  After that rocky stretch, you were able to close it out pretty well.  Pleasing way to cap off a good week?  
LUCAS HERBERT: You just look at the holes out there and there's not really any easy holes coming in.  I've hit I think 4-iron or 5-iron into about the last probably four par 5s on the back nine.   
So I knew that no one would probably really be going anywhere, and I could just really hold strong and hold my ground.  I would probably move up the field more than I move down.   
Yeah, that was the plan, just to grind it out and fortunately, I have been able to reap the benefits now.   
 Q.  Very good week but a real good month for you, great results?  
LUCAS HERBERT: Yeah, it's been a little purple patch, which has been good.  It's been a long year and we've spent a long time out on the road.  To get the sort of results and tick some goals off that we have towards the end of the year has been really rewarding.  Yeah, it's good for me and my coach, Dominic, physio, Simi, spending a lot of time away, as well, to help me out here.   
 Q.  Your partnership with Craig Connelly on the bag, how has that been working out?  
LUCAS HERBERT: Yeah, Wee Man's been really good.  Two weeks in, two Top-10s, so I can't complain about his form.  But yeah, he's been really helpful out there and good bit of experience to sort of calm my head when I needed it.   
I have really enjoyed it.   
 Q.  Just finally, you've been playing on limited status here but some real good weeks and now you're right up there in The Race to Dubai and suddenly the rest of your season is going to be looking different?  
LUCAS HERBERT: Yeah, it was pretty stressful there coming into like Amsterdam and Portugal.  I really needed to capitalise on some starts here because I'm running out of invites.  I still wasn't inside the number.  But it was good to get the result, obviously, in Portugal.  Kept my card and we've been really good to reset the goals and find a few things to strive for.   
So I think that's probably been the reason we've got the results we have in the last couple weeks is reset some goals and work toward them.   
 Q.  How have you reset those goals?  
LUCAS HERBERT: I think since the start of the year, it's just been trying to get my European Tour card.  That's kind of what I've just been thinking about.  So I've worked harder and harder and stressed about that forever and ever, and finally once I hit that goal, it would have been very easy for me to just relax and maybe just settle a little bit on it.   
Probably set some out-there World Ranking goals to finish the end of the year by, and we're sort of making a bit of a start on that, but I think that's probably really kept my head in and kept the motivation going these last two weeks.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT