ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 3, 2017
Quentin Hillsman
Gabby Cooper
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Duke - 68, Syracuse - 46   
QUENTIN HILLSMAN: Well, obviously not the result you want, but Duke is a good team.   
 Q.  The last time you guys played against Duke, what do you think you were not able to do in terms of making adjustments from that last game?  That was obviously a very similar style, you took a lot of threes and weren't able to hit them.  
QUENTIN HILLSMAN: That's it.  We got open shots, and again, 3-2 zone is going to give you open shots in the corner.  You've got to knock them down.  So they were going back and forth between 2-3 and 3-2 zones.  We know their signals and we know their calls.  So when they called a defense, we called an offense.  And we got looks; we've got to make shots.  We're attacking the rim and playing at the basket.  We played downhill, and our players got to play through contact finish it.  You expect to get foul calls and really just go up and power up.   
It's a physical game.  They hit us in the paint.  We fouled them, too.  So it's one of those things where you can't blame it on anything but us not making shots, and we got the looks that we wanted.  We've got to knock them down.   
 Q.  Along that same line, did having to play the extra game last night, did that contribute to the fatigue?  
QUENTIN HILLSMAN: I don't think so.  I don't think so.  I'd rather kind of play a little bit and get yourself playing and moving.  Last year obviously having the double bye we came out on the top and everything, and got to the championship game, which obviously is the goal.  The goal is to win it.   
But we're not going to make that excuse of saying that we played last night and now tonight we come out and not play up to our potential.  I don't think that had a whole lot to do with it.  We've got to compete at a high level.  This is how we play, so we need to be built for this style.  I don't think that contributed a ton to it.  No, I don't.   
 Q.  I know it's frustrating, but the excitement of playing in the NCAA Tournament, your thoughts on playing again?  
QUENTIN HILLSMAN: You've got us in?   
 Q.  Safely I'd say.  
QUENTIN HILLSMAN: Thank you.   
GABBY COOPER: Yeah, we're not happy with the outcome, of course, but looking forward to the future.  The Tournament is coming up, so we've just got to prepare, and it's very exciting because of course it's my first one, so we're just looking forward to coming out, playing hard, and doing what we do best.   
 Q.  Gabby, talk about the experiences of your first ACC Tournament; what did you think about this thing?  
GABBY COOPER: It was fun.  It was tough.  It was challenging, but it was fun.   
 Q.  Obviously you guys made a great run last year in the NCAAs.  Can you use that to fuel the team like, hey, we can do this again and get back to where we were last year, if not a step further?  
QUENTIN HILLSMAN: Yeah, it's no question.  I think that if you haven't been there, you don't know what it's like to do it, and we understand what we've got to do.  You've got to get hot.  You get hot for four or five games and you never know what happens.  That's what happened to us last year.  We struggled shooting the ball up until we got to this tournament, and we started making shots, and we got on a run.   
Anything can happen, and we know that, and we're just ready to go out and compete.  That's why we do it.  We're in the best conference in the country, and it really prepares you for anything you're going to see in the NCAA Tournament.  We have every style of play in this conference, so it really does prepare you for the NCAA Tournament, and we just want to go home and get some rest and get off our feet and start prepping, and we'll find out who's going to play and go and compete at a high level.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT