UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 31, 2019
Jake Fromm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Georgia - 30, Vanderbilt - 6   
 Q.  You guys win. You put up a lot of yards. How does it feel after this game?  
JAKE FROMM: It feels good. A long time since we last got a win. It feels good to come out, road conference opponent, SEC team. So it feels good to come out and come out on top.   
 Q.  Does it feel any different than previous first game wins or preseason wins?  
JAKE FROMM: Yeah, it does feel more playing a conference team to start off with. Vanderbilt, they played strong. They played tough, and they fought us for four quarters.   
 Q.  What worked? What didn't?  
JAKE FROMM: I mean, really, I think we're going to feel as an offense, when we go back and look at it, we're going to feel that every play we called or lined up or checked to should have worked. We just didn't execute in the second half as much as we really wanted to, but it is what it is.   
It's football. It's the first game. We're going to take it. We're going to look at it. We're going to assess it. We're going to say, hey, we're going to get better at it this week, move on, and go play the next opponent.   
 Q.  How do you feel like those receivers who were getting action for the first time did?  
JAKE FROMM: Those guys grew up and played some football today. Good for them to get that experience, get going, and get the wheels rolling.   
 Q.  Did you hear the Zeus chants?  
JAKE FROMM: Yeah, I did. Good for him to get back out there. I know a lot of folks are excited about him. We are too on offense.   
 Q.  Just the crowd out here, what did you think?  
JAKE FROMM: No disrespect, but it really felt like a home game. Really thankful for the way our fans traveled. It was awesome, unbelievable.   
 Q.  You just mentioned it was good to see the receivers out there. There was a bunch of them. Which ones stood out the most? For me, it was Robertson.  
JAKE FROMM: D. Rob played great, Tyler played great, Matt, George, Kearis. All those guys who went in, they really did their job. They went in. They attacked what they needed to attack. You know, it is what it is. The way we played on offense, got to execute a little bit better on some things, but really proud to come out with a win.   
 Q.  Do you know how many yards D'Andre Swift finished with?  
JAKE FROMM: No idea.   
 Q.  147.  
JAKE FROMM: That's No. 7 for you. He's a great football player.   
 Q.  It seemed like everything was working for you, going straight down the field. Seemed like everything you called was clicking.  
JAKE FROMM: We were rolling. Coach Coley was on a roll. We were executing well at the beginning of the game. We kind of had our sensors up. Hey, we really wanted to focus. I guess we lost a little focus there. As a unit, just wasn't as locked in as we needed to be. It is what it is. We'll fix it come Sunday, Monday, and get ready for the next opponent.   
 Q.  So after those first three drives, it wasn't a matter of dialing it down. It was just focus, you think?  
JAKE FROMM: Just lack of focus, yes, I would probably say it was.   
 Q.  Did you expect you guys to be as run heavy as you were tonight?  
JAKE FROMM: It's really hard to stop calling it when you're getting 10, 15 yards a pop, and guys like 7 and 35 are on a roll. Man, it's really tough when you have the offensive line you do. Hey, if it's working, let's do it.   
 Q.  It's been talked about all off-season in terms of different wrinkles that Coach Coley has added. Just don't put a percentage on it, but how much do you feel you guys showed tonight?  
JAKE FROMM: I really don't know off the top of my head. It will change on a week to week basis whoever we're playing. So really no idea.   
 Q.  First Saturday playing with all three of the Fromm boys playing. Going to call and check in on your brothers?  
JAKE FROMM: As soon as I get my phone, I'm going to call and check in on them. Hopefully, both teams won.   
 Q.  How did you feel the rhythm and timing was with the receivers today?  
JAKE FROMM: First game, thought it was well. Thought it was as good as it could have been. You know, any time you play a first game as a quarterback, you haven't been live really since your last game, so you're really trying to get back in the groove and feel stuff, feeling heads and feeling rush. We're going to check it, assess it, and really see what really happened on film.   
 Q.  Jake, we're doing something about football Friday night back at home. Talk about your experience watching that with all your teammates and just going back and enjoying that.  
JAKE FROMM: Taking trips back, kind of miss the high school football on Friday. Really got to check in on some teams this past Friday. So it's awesome to go back and watch that. You miss it a little bit. Man, I hope the guys are doing well.   
 Q.  Remember the Football Friday Night show, remember that after the game?  
JAKE FROMM: It was awesome to check in on everybody and see how everybody else is doing.   
 Q.  How do you feel about Swift's performance tonight? I know that he had so many yards. Just talk about how he did.  
JAKE FROMM: Man, Dre played unbelievable. He came out. He was him. We didn't expect for him to feel like he had to force anything or play down to his level or play down. He played great. He went out, made some runs, made some nice plays.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT