SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE FOOTBALL CHAMPIONSHIP GAME: ALABAMA VS GEORGIA
November 26, 2018
Jake Fromm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: We'll start with Jake Fromm.   
JAKE FROMM: We're excited to play in the SEC Championship and ready to defend our title.   
 Q.  This is about, something about college football in general.  When you see these games that were played in the 50s, and even Saturday, Ohio State/Michigan -- you played some high-scoring games yourself, is this just the way the game's going to be played in this age?  
JAKE FROMM: Well, I think there's a lot of great athletes out there.  I think offenses are getting better.  It's not that defenses are getting worse.  I think offenses are just getting better.   
Some leagues obviously put more emphasis on defense than other leagues.  I think our league does a really good job and they put a really strong emphasis on defense.  But I just think people are scheming things up very well and have great players and -- that can score a lot of points.   
 Q.  Is it easier for a good offense just to beat a good defense?  It used to be the other way around.  
JAKE FROMM: You know, I'm still a strong believer in offense wins games and defense wins championships.  I really am.  Obviously a really great offense helps, and it will obviously help you with that.  But I still think that holds true even today.   
 Q.  You guys could defend your title successfully Saturday, and the team you beat still get into the playoffs.  I just wanted a reaction, if there is one?  If you guys defend your title on Saturday and win for the second year in a row, the team you beat may end up staying in the top four and being in the playoff.  
JAKE FROMM: Yeah, you know very interesting the way it kind of works out.  It's nothing that I can control, nothing that we can control.  I just think we can only control what we can control.  Go in, play a football game, and try to win every game you're in.   
 Q.  Last year you had an outstanding freshman season, of course.  And you all went a long way.  That said, do you feel just with your experience more sharp mentally and maybe stronger mentally and physically going right now your sophomore season, going into this championship game than you did last year?  Also, do you think your arm is even stronger than it was last year at this time?  
JAKE FROMM: Yeah, definitely now after playing so many games, you really start to develop a process that works for you.  And I think we definitely have a good one here.  And definitely feel a lot more comfortable in this game, know what to expect, know what the atmosphere is going to be like.  So you can really kind of buckle that out.  Hey, you know, I've been here before.  It comes down to playing between the lines.  And there's going to be 11 guys that line up across from us.  And let's just try and go out, try to score as many points as we can.   
 Q.  When you compare Alabama's defense this year with what you faced last year in the championship game, or is it a lot different?  Still the same schemes and so forth, I guess.  
JAKE FROMM: Yeah, they definitely have some returning players.  And they have some really good players.  But schematically they're doing a lot of similar stuff they last year, very similar to our defense.  And I think it's just kind of very similar to what we see every single day in practice, so hopefully we can be very successful with that.   
 Q.  I just want to see from a fellow quarterback standpoint, what do you feel like it is about Tua that makes him so special as a player?  What stands out about him when you watch or see him play?  
JAKE FROMM: I think for him, I think he has an unbelievable talent when throwing the football.  I think he does a really good job of dispersing the football and getting it to his playmakers.  And then he has the ability to extend that play with his legs -- those extra six, seven, eight seconds of the play.   
But I definitely think when he's playing, you could definitely tell he's playing for a greater purpose and something bigger than himself.  So I think that's what makes him special.   
 Q.  I'm not sure how much film you've been able to watch of Alabama so far, but if you've been able to watch them, what have you seen so far just out of the freshman cornerback for them No. 2 Patrick Surtain?  
JAKE FROMM: He's physical, he's long.  He plays very aggressive.  And he's obviously a very good football player, starting as a freshman for that football team.  And he's definitely a player to respect.  So, I think he does an awesome job.  And can't wait to play him on Saturday.   
 Q.  Since you've seen Alabama's defense before, not a ton has changed and you see a similar defense in practice, what's the key making plays on a defense like this?  
JAKE FROMM: Right.  So you definitely have to take advantage of the opportunities you get.  So we've got to be able to run the football effectively.  And then when we take our set plays, we line up with the coverage we want.  We've got to be able to execute and attack on that.   
So, I definitely think we've got to get out in space, make them make tackles and just really execute.  They're going to -- the defense is kind of set up.  They're physical.  They're downhill.  They want to stop the run.  So we've just got to kind of take advantage of things in the passing game and run the ball effectively.   
 Q.  As you've gotten more comfortable with your receivers, and Alabama's pass defense is one of the best in the SEC but it has given up some big plays here and there, do you see an advantage when they get in one-on-one that you can take in the passing game?  
JAKE FROMM: Yeah, I feel very comfortable with our guys anytime they're manned up on anybody.  I think just from all the work we do, throughout the summer, throughout fall camp, throughout the season, our guys are making plays right now.  They're doing an awesome job creating separation versus man coverage.  And whether it's zone, whether it's man, our guys are doing a great job.  So feel very comfortable with our guys and (indiscernible) plays on Saturday.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT