ROSE BOWL GAME: GEORGIA VS OKLAHOMA
December 28, 2017
Jake Fromm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. At what point did you stop feeling like you were a freshman?
JAKE FROMM: You know, gosh, I don't know.  The only time I really remember feeling like a freshman was probably the Notre Dame and Tennessee game.  But after -- gosh, I don't know.  Man, it's really easy to play behind Nick and Tony and the offensive line.  They make it extremely easy for me, and man, just behind those guys and just trying to put the offense in the easiest position to succeed, man, that's made it easy for me this year.
Q. What's the biggest thing about (indiscernible)?
JAKE FROMM: You know, just a little bit of -- I don't know, just kind of feeling like you don't belong.  But man, I haven't had that feeling in an extremely long time.  Man, I've kind of taken every opportunity and felt like I've kind of owned it and just kind of ready for the next challenge.
Q. (Indiscernible).
JAKE FROMM: Gosh, honestly, I hadn't thought about it much.  I don't like kind of thinking about things until they're probably finished and done with.  Any kind of off time I get, I'm trying to get in the woods or hunt in any way I can or in the film room.  I don't get much time to kind of think and reflect.
Q. (Indiscernible).
JAKE FROMM: I have no idea.  They just told me to be downstairs at 8:45 today, and I was there and dressed.
Q. Did you know there would be reporters?
JAKE FROMM: It's been great, you know, not having to, but it's part of it, and man, I'm just thankful to be here.
Q. Everybody has remarked about your confidence coming in and being able to sort of connect with players way back in the spring.  Where does that come from?
JAKE FROMM: Gosh, I just think it just comes from a lot of managing the way God made me.  He made everybody different.  He made me who I am.  It comes from the way I was raised with my parents, and I don't know, kind of just a little bit of a part of me and kind of who I am.
Q. Do you remember any moments where maybe upperclassmen sort of needed to remind you that you're a freshman?
JAKE FROMM: I remember one game, I don't remember what it was, but Isaiah and Nick called me over, and man, Isaiah was really mad at me because I didn't slide when I was running the ball, and he said, man, get down and slide, please.  All right, all right, I will, I will.  Of course I was going to listen to the senior left tackle.  That's kind of one moment I remember that jumps out to me.
Q. What has Jacob been like this year?
JAKE FROMM: Jacob, man, he's been incredible.  He's been an awesome teammate.  I couldn't ask for anything better from him.  He's been awesome.  He's been with me every step of the way, and we've been great friends throughout this, and man, he's just awesome.
Q. At what point did you guys first (indiscernible)?
JAKE FROMM: We met during the recruiting process a couple times, and we got started with quarterback meetings very, very soon, once I got there, and definitely got acquainted with each other.  I mean, so far we've been friends ever since.  So far, so good.
Q. What's this been like for your family?
JAKE FROMM: Man, my family, they've been Dawgs ever since I was born.  For me, playing quarterback for the University of Georgia, I'm sure it's a lot bigger for them sometimes than it is for me.  It's been awesome.  I had to sign a lot of footballs for Christmas for family, but man, it's been awesome.  I'm extremely thankful they care so much about Georgia football and about me, and man, they love it.  They love me playing for them, and that's just awesome.
Q. Are you nervous about what awaits you Monday?
JAKE FROMM: Gosh, I think for me when I get the most nervous is when I know I don't prepare, and for me this year and this season, I think I've prepared more than any freshman quarterback or any quarterback out there in the country could have prepared.  That's kind of the way I take games.  I mean, do I get a little bit anxious before the game?  Absolutely.  That's anybody.  You're just ready to play.
But for me, I know I'm prepared, so I'm ready to go.
Q. What's it like trying to establish yourself in a 7-on-7 without anything on your resume?
JAKE FROMM: You know, when you get to college, you've got to start from the bottom.  Nobody cares how many stars you had and this and that.  So you've just got to come in and work every day, be consistent, and that's what I think I did, and guys started buying into me, and we had fun doing summer workouts and seven-on-sevens, and it just kind of took off from there.
Q. (Indiscernible).
JAKE FROMM: You know, definitely you've got to kind of take things slow.  One thing after another, one thing after another, and guys started buying into me, and I have a really good understanding of the playbook so I can definitely teach guys and help guys with what they need to do.
Q. It's kind of a balancing act because on the one hand you're a quarterback and on the other hand you're a true freshman.  Talk about that.
JAKE FROMM: Right.  It's funny, we run one play in practice, and I had to remind Isaiah to fan out and block somebody, and Isaiah looked at me, and I'm like, oh, yeah, Isaiah, he's been here a while and he knows what to do.  It's just funny because I fully understood that play at that time, and Isaiah, he's been understanding that play for a while.  It's been fun, been an awesome experience trying to learn with guys and then also teach guys.  I think I've done a pretty good job at that.  Guys, they definitely helped me with it, too.  So it's been awesome.
Q. Did you apologize?
JAKE FROMM: Oh, yeah.  I said, I knew you knew what to do.
Q. What's different about you today than when you went into the App State game?
JAKE FROMM: I definitely have a good understanding of what college football is all about.  I had no idea what I was getting myself into.  I knew it was just a football game, and that's just the way I approached it.  But now I'm here, and I definitely know kind of what to prepare for a little more now, and I definitely have a better feel going into the game versus 48 minutes or 60 minutes, of definitely how we play football, and that helps a lot.
Q. Talk about older guys you've been playing with.  Who would you say has been the most vocal, the most hands-on helping you out and kind of focused you the most about your growth?
JAKE FROMM: You know, Sony, he's been the most vocal at practice, and Nick, he's been -- Nick, he's more of a quiet -- he's going to do what he does and lead by example, and Nick, he's been incredible that way, and I've definitely learned a lot from him.  Javon Wims, he's definitely taken me under his wing, and I love Javon.  He's been an awesome friend and an awesome receiver for me, and kind of everybody on the offense.  They've been great for me.  Lamont, me and Lamont, we work things out all the time, and we definitely -- we're learning together, and it's been great.
Q. (Indiscernible)?
JAKE FROMM: I think a lot of time in the film room.  You know, you've got to watch and learn as much as you can.  I think for whatever reason, I can see something on film and translate it onto the field.  I don't know why I can do that, but somehow, some way, I can.  You know, it's definitely helped me a lot playing college football, and I hope it definitely continues that way.
Q. Five-star quarterbacks on this roster, but it's you playing now.
JAKE FROMM: You know, gosh, I have no idea.  I would definitely figure out how it works, but everybody is good, we get along, and we're definitely going to make each other a lot better, and that's one important thing is the depth of competition, and it's going to make everybody better, make the team better, and we're excited.
Q. Have you watched any of what Baker Mayfield has done?
JAKE FROMM: He's a great football player.  He makes a lot of plays, big arm, big plays downfield.  Definitely while watching Oklahoma's defense, definitely kind of flip on offense to see what they're doing, and they make a lot of big plays.  Hopefully I can kind of pick up a little thing here and there.
Q. You mentioned that you're a pretty big trash talker.
JAKE FROMM: I'm not a huge trash talker.  I don't talk a whole lot during games.  I'll talk to my guys all the time.  You know, Baker plays how he plays, and he's a good football player.  You know, definitely I'm going to play behind Nick and Sony and let their pads do the trash talking for me, so I'll just play behind them.
Q. You know they're good, Sony and Nick; do you think you understand the historical perspective of who you're playing with right now?
JAKE FROMM: Yeah, I mean, kind of thinking about it, Nick and Sony, they're UGA legends.  They've done stuff at the University of Georgia that nobody has kind of ever done together.  With those guys, they're also football players, and definitely sometimes you kind of hand the ball off and turn around and Nick or Sony is running the ball, like man, that's a good football player.  I'm just extremely thankful I can play with those guys, and man, they've done tremendous stuff.
Q. (Indiscernible) All-American type players?
JAKE FROMM: Oh, absolutely, makes my job so much easier when I know I can hand the ball left or right to 27 or 1, and I know we'll get just as many yards.  It definitely helps me with RPOs and that kind of thing.  When in doubt I'm going to give the ball to Nick Chubb or Sony Michel.
Q. What's made Isaiah so successful?
JAKE FROMM: Man, he's just an awesome football player.  He comes in, he works every day, and man, he's just so quick, he's so strong, and man, Isaiah, he's probably one of the best left tackles in the country.  I'm extremely thankful he's on my football team and protecting my backside.
Q. Going back to that App State game (indiscernible) college career, and what's your thought when you had to take that first snap?
JAKE FROMM: You know, I said this a minute ago, but if you would have told me the way it was written, I wouldn't have believed you.  I'm extremely thankful that it worked out the way it did, and man, I'm just going to continue to take it day by day and stay with the process and hopefully try to win the Rose Bowl.
Q. The fact that you're not necessarily perceived as a fast guy, do you like that, that that's kind of a surprise for people?
JAKE FROMM: Yeah, it's been fun.  You know, I didn't run the ball a whole lot in high school.  I did when I had to.  Coach never really liked it much when I ran the ball in high school.  It's been fun trying to learn how to run the ball in the SEC.  I joke with Coach Chaney all the time, hey, a couple more run plays with me.  But he don't take it too seriously when we have 27 and 1 back there and stuff.  It's been fun.  It's been a good experience, and I've stayed healthy, so that's good.
Q. (Indiscernible).
JAKE FROMM: Yeah, he's an incredible football player.  It's crazy how he's a senior and just won the Heisman.  He's here, and I'm also here.  Hopefully I can somehow lead my team to a Rose Bowl victory just like he's trying to do, and we're both going to take it and try to play our best game.
I try not to think about it too much.  Today all I'm thinking about is how well can I do this press conference and how well can I go out and practice today.
Q. When you're a freshman quarterback (indiscernible)?
JAKE FROMM: You know, Baker, he makes a lot of big plays downfield.  It's definitely fun to watch them play and some of their explosive plays and try to see kind of how you can play and kind of develop those big plays.
Q. (Indiscernible).
JAKE FROMM: I mean, honestly, I have no idea.  I just know if I throw the ball downfield to Javon or Terry, I know they're going to come down with it, so I just wait until the play is called when Coach Chaney calls it, and when I get my opportunity, I try to make it.
Q. What do you think about (indiscernible)?
JAKE FROMM: I did it at 8:45 this morning.
Q. (Indiscernible).
JAKE FROMM: He's definitely been a competitor for me.  You know, every day at practice.  I was always kind of itching to always watch more film than him, but he's definitely helped me in the film room and at practice and always trying to compete, who can throw the ball farther.  He usually wins that battle.  But it's been fun.
Q. That quarterback room is pretty competitive?
JAKE FROMM: Oh, absolutely.
Q. How does that push you?
JAKE FROMM: It's going to make everybody better.  It's going to make myself better and him better and the team better.
Q. (Indiscernible).  Was there ever a moment when you weren't like that?
JAKE FROMM: Not that I can really remember.  I just know you make a mistake, you watch it, and you play the next play.  You make a big play.  You watch it and you try to make the next play.  Yeah, it works both ways, and you know, you've just got to go out and just continue to play football.
Q. (Indiscernible).
JAKE FROMM: It's not.  I don't know why I can do that.  I'm extremely thankful I guess I can, and man, I'm just really trying to go out and play the next play.
Q. What are your impressions of the Oklahoma defense?
JAKE FROMM: They're a good, fast, physical football team, and they play in a league where they throw the ball a lot.  We're definitely going to have the challenges of that.  They're well-conditioned to the passing game, and man, I just hope that we can go out and run the football and be physical.
Q. How do they compare to some of the defenses you've faced this year in the SEC?
JAKE FROMM: You know, they still have the guys and they still have fast guys, a lot like the SEC.  They match up well to a lot of football teams.  You know, hopefully it's not too different for us, and hopefully we can go out and play our brand of football.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT