NBA DRAFT
June 26, 2008
D.J. Augustin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  (No. 9 Overall Selection, Charlotte Bobcats)  
  
  Q. Can you talk about your feelings about being picked?   
 D.J. AUGUSTIN: I'm excited and this is a great opportunity for me to go to a great organization and go to a great coach and great teammates. I'm very happy right now.   
  
  Q. You are working now for a very famous basketball player; how does it feel to work in the same organization as Michael Jordan?  
 D.J. AUGUSTIN: Oh, it's great. He was a great player and a great person, and he's a great businessman. I'm just happy about going in and just doing everything I can to help the team win.   
  
  Q. What is it that you want to bring to the Bobcats?   
 D.J. AUGUSTIN: I want to bring leadership and hopefully I can learn as much as possible from the point guard and just keep getting better.  
  
  Q. What do you think playing for Texas gives you playing in the NBA?  
 D.J. AUGUSTIN: I played for a great coach, Coach Vaughn and great teammates, so I'm ready to go in and do everything I can to help the team win.  
  
  Q. How much do you know about Larry Brown? He's making his comeback with this particular team, have you talked to him at all and do you know any expectations that he has of you?  
 D.J. AUGUSTIN: Not yet. I haven't talked to him and I don't know what he expects. But as a point guard my job is to come in, learn as much as possible and lead the team as much as possible, just play my role and get everybody involved.  
  
  Q. Charlotte is a nice, small southern city; does that mesh with your personality?   
 D.J. AUGUSTIN: Yeah, Charlotte is a great city. Like you said, it's small and I'm used to small cities. I'm from New Orleans and it will be great to play there, and I'm so happy.   
  
  Q. How long do you think it's going to be until you get a chance to light up your old teammate (Kevin Durant) out there in Seattle?   
 D.J. AUGUSTIN: Well, that will be a fun day. It will be great. I know we're going to go at it, both teams and just hope that we come out with a win.   
  
  Q. What does the "D.J." stand for?  
 D.J. AUGUSTIN: Darryl Junior.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT