BIG TEN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
March 1, 2017
Matt Bollant
Ali Andrews
Brandi Beasley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Illinois - 79, Nebraska - 70
THE MODERATOR: We're joined by Coach Bollant and the Illinois student-athletes.  Coach, an opening statement.
COACH BOLLANT: Just really proud of the way we guarded in the fourth quarter.  Give Nebraska credit.  I thought they were really good offensively in the third quarter, scored 29 points.  And then I thought we were better in the fourth quarter.  Obviously missed a couple of open shots as well but we just defended better.
And give our freshmen a lot of credit.  They came in and did that, played with -- Brandi had 20; Petra, 21; and Ali 24.  For the first time playing in the Big Ten Tournament, to have 65 points from your freshmen says a lot about them not playing with fear and just how they came after.
And again the other thing they get rewarded for being in the gym.  This freshman class has been in the gym more than any other class I've coached.  And they got rewarded today.  Brandi's worked on her 3-point shot, and to go 3-for-3 -- and Ali, such a great stroke and did a lot of good things.  And she did a good job defending as well.  Really happy for our team and happy for Ashley McConnell, our senior.  We said let's give her another day.  Let's allow her to play again and we did that.
Q. Ali, defensively in the last five minutes you guys held Nebraska without a point.  What stood out defensively for you guys late in the fourth quarter?
ALI ANDREWS: We had to come together as a team just collapse on Shepard.  She's a really good player.  And basically their offense rolls around No. 3.  So we tried to take away the 3 in their inside game.
Q. Brandi, what was it like being a freshman playing in your first tournament game?
BRANDI BEASLEY: It was very exciting.  I was looking forward to it.  I think we came out and played great.  We came out with a lot of heart and energy.
Q. 40 minutes, are you tired?
BRANDI BEASLEY: Not really.
Q. Same question, defensively, what was the plan to try to keep it from Shepard?  And at times Nebraska was really hitting 3-pointers in spurts, and other times you were really able to hold them in check for the most part?
COACH BOLLANT: I thought we tried to get double teams early.  Just could not let her get going.  Obviously her size, with Alex being out, it was tough to guard her inside.  But Ali did a good job finding her and then we got some good aggressive teams and made her wonder whether we're doubling or not.
Then I thought we did a better job -- in the first half and a little bit in the third quarter we didn't really get to their shooters very well.  In the fourth quarter we were kind of anticipated better and took away some rhythm shots which was great because I felt like they got some pretty good rhythm 3s in the first three quarters.  And made adjustment in the fourth, and just said make sure you're moving, slide to the ball and anticipate, and let's make them have to dribble to a shot, especially their guards are making shots.
Q. It's been a while since you played Nebraska, but what ways have they changed from the first matchup?
COACH BOLLANT: I think they're better offensively.  Whitish has really come around and had a great year.  And today they made 13 3s so they shot the ball better and were a lot more confident.  I thought 5, 5's a really good player, great defender.  And today she stepped up, made four 3s as well.  Their freshmen have matured some and they looked much better offensively today because they had -- Whitish made shots but typically they didn't have three or four kids making shots like they did today.  They were a lot better offensively.
Q. Coach, you've got Purdue tomorrow.  Thoughts?
COACH BOLLANT: Yeah.  We played them pretty tough at our place.  Morrissette and Keys got going and made a lot of 3s against us.
Obviously gotta do a good job at that, and physically, they go to the offensive boards so well.  They're long and athletic and so we've got our work cut out.  But we're excited for the challenge.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT