STATE FARM MISSOURI VALLEY CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 5, 2020
Brian Wardle
Darrell Brown
Nate Kennell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Braves are defending champions. They'll play the Number 5 seed SIU Salukis 2:30 on Friday. Nate Kennell and Darrell Brown represent the student body. Head coach is Brian Wardle is in the middle. We're going to ask Brian to open up with a statement about being in St. Louis, about his team and then we'll go to questions for all three Bradley Braves. Brian, please.   
BRIAN WARDLE: It's good to be back. We're excited for a great postseason tournament and Arch Madness. Excited for this team, this group. We've got a nice energy, nice bounce about us, and we're excited to compete at 2:30 tomorrow.   
 Q.  For each of the players, could you guys give us some of your memories of last year's championship run and how much you think that helps you guys coming into this tournament?  
THE MODERATOR: Darrell first.   
DARRELL BROWN: The tournament last year was special. We fought through a lot of adversity, some comeback games, comeback wins. We played the top seed, Loyola, and had just lost to them the year before. So it was special to get revenge on them. It was a great run overall.   
NATE KENNELL: It gives us a lot of confidence coming into this tournament. We've got a lot of guys who are experienced and know how to win. It's exciting coming back and get another shot.   
 Q.  Coach Wardle, going into a third time playing a team in a season, is there much you can really change going into the final game, or do you know what to expect?  
BRIAN WARDLE: They might add some things, whether it comes from a set play on offense or tweak defensively, I think that's what you do. You kind of tweak things, little details, but not a whole lot, you're right about that. It comes down to playing under the lights. It's a different type of feel, different type of vibe out there in conference tournament, and you've got to go out there and perform.   
I think for both teams it's going to come down to defensively who makes the least amount of mistakes and then got to make big shots, and then you've got to make momentum changing plays. We were able to do that last year, and hopefully that helps us do it this year. It may not. I've seen teams win ten in a row and come in and lose the first round of the conference tournament. I've seen teams lose five in a row. Or lose five to end the season or come in and win the conference tournament in my years as a coach.   
It all comes down to that two hours and performing in that two hours.   
 Q.  Brian, could you review the two games with the Salukis this year? You guys won them both, but it was like each team won two halves almost, the way the games broke down. Could you just kind of review how the games went.  
BRIAN WARDLE: I think what you show your team is, when the second half of our home game and the first half at their place, when we're doing things right and clicking and executing, how we can look. Also, when we make mistakes on personnel or we break down or take a bad shot offensively and so forth, it's all teaching. These guys know what they can do. They know when they're clicking and performing at a high level, that we can play and beat anyone. That's what we have to do. I mean, we've got to do a great job defensively on them -- knowing personnel, knowing what they're trying to do to us when it comes to driving in goals and getting the ball inside. If we can execute that, we'll be fine.   
 Q.  For both players, could you guys just look back. You played them about three weeks ago down in Carbondale. That first half, you guys have had few first halves you've played that well. It seemed like you did everything well that first half. The second half was a little different, but you guys held on to win. Could you just focus on that game and what you guys feel you did well and what you think other things you'll need to improve on this time around?  
THE MODERATOR: Nate, you're up first this time.   
NATE KENNELL: Yeah, just putting a full 40 minutes together. I think our team is really capable of doing that. That hasn't happened. I know our best is yet to come. Really just dialling in and focusing and just continue closing out games. That's what we know how to do is finish a game, and we need to keep doing that.   
DARRELL BROWN: I mean, the first half we came out and did pretty much what we wanted to do, and it led to a great first half. The second half, we let them get to some of their tendencies, and they went on the run a little bit. That's what good teams do is, go on runs. We just have to weather the storm and finish the game up the right way, and I think we did a good job of finishing the game up.   
 Q.  You guys have both had great careers at Bradley. I wonder if you could just kind of review your four seasons. You're both up there in different categories for career stats. Could you -- Nate, you're second in three-point shooting, and Darrell, you're sixth now, but maybe end up fifth in total points. So can you guys just kind of reminisce about your four years and what you feel went well for you at Bradley?  
DARRELL BROWN: I mean, it's been a great career. Hopefully, we can keep adding on to it. That's the plan. But you have to enjoy the memories and the moments with your teammates. You have different teammates each year, so it's just special building bonds with new guys. Having the same coach was big for us, me and Nate's development both. So we're just grateful for our situation and our opportunities that have come about since we've been here. I think we've been in the 4-5 game pretty much three out of our four years here. So we kind of know what the situation feels like. Hopefully, we can keep on building.   
NATE KENNELL: Yeah, it's just been really special. It's been fun the entire time, just being able to enjoy it and just going through all the adversity and the excitement and ups and downs. That's really what builds relationships. I mean, it's just awesome to get to do it one more time here in St. Louis. It's really special, and I know, for the younger guys getting to watch us is important, too, so the program continues to keep building.   
THE MODERATOR: Gentlemen, thank you very much for your time. Best of luck.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT