DONGFENG MOTOR WUHAN OPEN
September 27, 2015
Fangzhou Liu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Questions in Mandarin.   
   
 Q. To be in a top‑level game playing against these professional players. It's a rare occasion. Why do you think you lost this game?  
FANGZHOU LIU: Well, it's a rare occasion for me to play in the main draw with a very strong game. I'm very nervous. I'm not used to her strategy with so many chips.   
In the second set I tried to find myself, but still I think I'm not that strong as her.   
   
 Q. So before this game, do you know the singles in the Wuhan Open, you are the only one left?  
FANGZHOU LIU: Yes. Especially when I know that Saisai lost her game, I was the only one left. I tried to play my best. I had this wild card. When I was on the court, I tried a lot.   
After the first set, I was no longer nervous. I tried my best.   
   
 Q. Why do you think you got the wild card when you are lower than other players?  
FANGZHOU LIU: Well, I was second last year. The best Chinese player at that time can play in the China Open. I also was in the Asian Games. They promised me I can have the wild card this year for competition. The wild card of the Wuhan Open would be mine.   
It's like a compensation.   
   
 Q. Three years ago in Shenzhen, we talked a lot. I have this feeling that you're very motivated compared with players at your same age. How do you view your progress in recent years?  
FANGZHOU LIU: Well, I think I am more mature and calm in recent years. Especially years ago in Shenzhen, I was quite young, quite brave. I'm not afraid compared with the older generation.   
But in recent years, competing with other professional players, I had my good and bad performances. I didn't have a very good result this year.   
I think it is not because I don't have any improvements. I think I can maintain my current level. I hope that in the next few months with competitions coming, I can have a better performance.   
   
 Q. You are transforming yourself, competing more in the WTA tournaments. What's the difference between the ITF and WTA?  
FANGZHOU LIU: Well, I feel a lot of changes and differences, especially when I do the training and preparation, especially stretches before and after the competition.   
I feel that there is a huge gap between me and other professional players. They have more self‑discipline. However, for players like me, we're still transforming. I think I need to learn from them and improve myself.   
They do not have so many coaches or physical trainers with them. Sometimes only one coach. But they can arrange their preparation and training in a very reasonable way. But there is still a gap between me and them, not only just the strategy.   
   
 Q. So the gap you mentioned, is it because of the self‑discipline or is it because of the personalities? What is the reason?  
FANGZHOU LIU: Well, maybe not because of the external reasons, but the internal ones. I feel that I'm not that mature. If I lose one match, my emotions would be discouraged. I will think about giving up easily, like I can relax from now on.   
But for professional players, even though they lose a game, they will still think about the reasons why they lose and how they can improve in the future matches.   
But for me, if I do not have a good match, I think it might be my own reasons.  
   
 Q. For top‑level competitions, there would be different arrangements. Talk about your position, for example.   
FANGZHOU LIU: Well, I have one coach, and that coach would follow me. My gratitude goes to the team, with others ranking before me. But I have this very strong coach following me in different places in the world. I'm very grateful.   
For the future training, I think currently my strategy is very simple: only focus on defensive things, but not a lot of winning strategies. My coach also told me that I need to realize the gap between me and other players. I need to think about how to improve and compete against other players.   
   
 Q. I know that this year you're only 19. This is maybe the first year of your professional career. There is still a long way ahead of you. Is there any plan for your future career, like at what age, what kind of achievements would you have? Will you always try your best and see whatever stage you can achieve? If you have a plan, do you have a goal for different steps?   
FANGZHOU LIU: Well, this year, actually every year, I will set a goal for myself. With my hard preparation and training, I will set one goal within my reach and one goal beyond my reach. This year I tried to reach a ranking of 130. Now the situation is very difficult for me.   
I hope I can get the ranking within 130 by the end of this year. I hope I can make improvements step by step.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT