ROGERS CUP
July 26, 2016
Nick Saviano
Sylvain Bruno
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








An interview with:
NICK SAVIANO
SYLVAIN BRUNO
THE MODERATOR: Genie was not feeling well enough to come to press because of stomach problems.  That's why we have Nick Saviano and ^  to answer your questions.
Q. What is going on with Eugenie's health right now, if we could?
NICK SAVIANO: Yeah, well, she came off the court and she was in a lot of discomfort with her stomach.  Not exactly sure.  We know it's not serious.  But she's very uncomfortable right now.
She should be fine for tomorrow.  But the objective is to make sure she has every chance to compete at 100% tomorrow.  We're very confident that will happen.
But, you know, she would have loved to have been here.  There is no reason why she wouldn't want to be here.  But she is very uncomfortable right now, but she's getting better.
She'll be fine and be ready to play tomorrow.
Q. What about the courage she showed in that match.  A lot of discussion has been centered around the joy that she wants to bring to the court.  I felt there was a lot of joy at the end.
NICK SAVIANO: Well, yes.  One of the things that all great athletes have when they perform, compete or perform, they have joy, passion, and they're always displaying courage, courage to lay it out there, courage to compete from beginning to end.
They also show a sense of humility.  When somebody who is a tremendous player goes out there and competes and lays it all out there, that shows that they're giving it everything they have, whether the person is highly ranked or not.
That's one of Genie's goals.  I thought she handled herself really well, competed really well.  It's nice to see a win in the end.  But either way she was guaranteeing a successful outcome, not that she would win, but that she was going to give herself the best chance.
That's really what it's all about.
Q. The discomfort came after her doubles match, not the singles match?
NICK SAVIANO: Actually, she was in a lot of discomfort during the doubles match.  So maybe it was something she had eaten in between.  But she was very uncomfortable out on the doubles court.
I could tell.  I walked along the fence and said, What's happening?  I knew she was not comfortable.  I've known Genie since she's 12 years old.  She's very good with managing pain or discomfort.  She's not somebody who lightly complains about anything.  I knew she was very uncomfortable in the doubles, at least second set on.
Q. This is the second player today we've heard of with the same problem.  Do you have any idea where it comes from?  Some kind of food the players all eat?
NICK SAVIANO: I don't agree with your premise that it's the same problem.  I don't know about the other player.  They might have had an upset stomach of sorts, but I can't say unequivocally that it's the same problem.
I think Genie's is something maybe she ate and a combination of some liquid she was drinking.  As you all know, it was a really tough match out there.  So a combination of that I think maybe had an effect.
Q. In the third set, she asked to talk to you.  Was she okay at that moment?
NICK SAVIANO: In the singles?
Q. Yes, in the third set.
NICK SAVIANO: Oh, yeah, she was totally fine all throughout the singles.  She had no issues whatsoever during the singles.
She called me out I think twice.  Once was in the second set.  You'll have to help me out if that's correct.  Then towards the end of the third.
It was a real battle out there and she wanted to know my thoughts, so I gave her my thoughts (smiling).
Q. Nick, during the doubles, it looked like she was grabbing her stomach about.  Were you worried a little bit it was the recurring ab situation?  Did you know what it was?
NICK SAVIANO: My responsibility is to make sure that she's not doing anything that's going to really hurt herself seriously.  I'll walk right up.  I'm pretty straightforward about it and said, Hey, what's going on?
She would have let me know if she pulled the stomach.  Earlier in the year, as you well know, I came on the court and said, You really got to default, I think you should default, because you can seriously hurt yourself.
That was not the case at all today.  Nothing like that, like a muscle pull or strain or anything of that nature.
Q. Physical aspect aside, today's match was also tough mentally.  How confident are you that she can make a turnaround and go on court tomorrow and be ready for another battle against an opponent that she faced a few weeks ago and beat her quite handily?
NICK SAVIANO: I don't know that she beat her quite handily.  It was a tough match at Wimbledon.  Genie also beat her twice before in the same year.
I think Genie will be more than ready tomorrow.  She's just got to get some rest.  It's not like she's playing at 10:00 tomorrow morning.  She plays later on.  So she should be recovered.
You know what, she should be ready to go.  It's a day.  She has a tough match tomorrow.  She's a professional.  She's well-conditioned.  She'll be ready.
Q. Nick, back to the singles match earlier.  You were here in 2014 when she had quite a tough match against Shelby Rogers.  Obviously a different Genie we saw tonight against a tough opponent.
NICK SAVIANO: I'll let you in on a little secret in 2014.  She struggled that first set, everyone is aware of that.  She started winning the second set.  She started hurting herself at that point towards the end of the second set.  She struggled the rest.
So she wasn't herself in that third set.  I'm not taking any credit away.  You know, time has passed.  However, you know, she did a great job today.  She handled the crowd well.
2014 was a long time ago and there were a lot of other circumstances that were going on there.  It was a tough adjustment, a lot of attention thrown on her very quickly.
That match in 2014 wasn't obviously what everyone thought.  It was a good match.  The other gal played really well.  I said, Boy, this gal's a good player.  But, you know, Genie was struggling a little bit towards the end with an issue with her leg, so...
But she did a great job tonight.  Great mindset.  She soaked up the crowd.  It's so exciting to see a packed house like that and everyone excited and having a great time on a beautiful day, so...
I think everyone came out a winner today, except obviously Safarova had a tough loss.
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French for Sylvain.
Q. Is Genie going to be able to continue the tournament and play the next match?
SYLVAIN BRUNO: Normally yes.  She has just a problem with her stomach right now.  We are trying to treat her so that she can gather her strength to play tomorrow.
Q. Sylvain, I would like to have your impression on the way Genie managed her match and her emotions after losing three match points.  What is your general impression on her match?
SYLVAIN BRUNO: I think she served extremely well.  She served at 180, 182, 183, which she hasn't done for a long time.  So this helped us win her service games.  When she had those three match points in the third set, you need to give credit to Safarova, who served four big serves and two aces.
Sometimes you think you're almost done, you're down in the tiebreak just after that.  Sometimes in the past she started slipping at those moments.  But here at 1-3 she was able to take control of the rallies and take that match.
I think it's very good.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT