NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 14, 2014
Andre Drummond
Dion Waiters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.   You guys have been through a lot this year.   Was it nice just to get out there and enjoy yourself and have fun?
ANDRE DRUMMOND:   Yeah, you know, we had a tough year so far, having a little up and down, but we're starting to come together.   We're starting to come together. 
And tonight having the time away, just being with my peers that I got drafted with and being with some of the rookies, just showing them how hard you got to play to be in this game, I just tried to show that tonight. 

Q.   You missed the game last year because of the tail bone injury.   Was that sort of in your mind that this was the first time that you were going to be on such a big stage like this with and against your peers?
ANDRE DRUMMOND:   Man, you know, missing the game last year was tough for me.   I hated watching it, every second of it.   It was tough I couldn't be out there. 
It was my mindset to come out and play with energy like I had been all year.   I had my mindset to win the MVP and win the game, and I went out there and did it. 

Q.   Could you talk about the competition there in the second half between Dion and Tim Hardaway, Jr., and what you thought about that. 
ANDRE DRUMMOND:   It was just like last year with Brandon Knight and Kyrie Irving.   There's always going to be two guys that just decide to go after each other.   And it was an excellent battle. 
Last year it was attacking the cup, but this year it was back‑to‑back 3s, nonstop. 
So it's hard for me to watch.   I got to sit back instead of running up‑and‑down.   I got to sit and watch that for a couple minutes.   But it was very interesting to see that.   Especially that matchup too. 

Q.   How much does winning I guess make you even more hungry to do it Sunday and get to Sunday's game at some point?
ANDRE DRUMMOND:   You know, like I said, missing the game last year was tough for me.   And I've always had my mindset on being down here and actually playing. 
And I had the mindset this year of coming out here and playing with energy and show the league that I could play in Sunday's game and that I'm able to hang with the big guys.

Q.   How much more improvement do you have to make and where do you make that improvement to get to that point?
ANDRE DRUMMOND:   Every day I got to continue to get better.   Every single day.   I get better, improve myself, to prove to myself that I'm able to play. 

Q.   What were you thinking of when the trophy dropped?
ANDRE DRUMMOND:   It happened last year too, so I wasn't expecting anything less.   Usually a slip‑up happens every year with the trophy.   So I wasn't too shocked about that. 

Q.   Do you have any advice on how to fix the trophy?
ANDRE DRUMMOND:   I think they should change it up so it's not in two pieces. 
(Laughter.) 
THE MODERATOR:   Okay.   Thank you. 
ANDRE DRUMMOND:   Appreciate it.
DION WAITERS

Q.   How did the 3‑point shoot‑out come to be with Hardaway?
DION WAITERS:   I knew it was going to happen from in the first half.   We had a little thing going on.   And it died down quick. 
But the second half, it came he came down and made a shot; I came down and made a shot; he came down and made a shot; I came down and made a shot. 
And once the crowd got into it, I knew it was on.   But I let him take them.   I let him take them.

Q.   Were you guys talking to each other during that?   Did you say anything to each other?
DION WAITERS:   Oh, yeah.   I told him I'm coming right back.   I said I'm coming right back. 

Q.   What was the little thing you had in the first half?
DION WAITERS:   Oh, no, I told him I owed him from being at the TNT game, and they were beating us pretty bad.   There was like 15 seconds left, and he came down and chucked up a 3 and made it. 
I told him, I'm going to get you back.   I'm going to get you back for that.   And I was able to get my chance tonight. 

Q.   And you said that to him at the time?
DION WAITERS:   No, I couldn't say it to him, I said it in my head.   But he knew I owed him.   He knew it. 

Q.   Did you see Kyrie and Booby Gibson there in the front row screaming?   What did that do?   Did that fuel the whole thing?
DION WAITERS:   The whole crowd, it fueled everything.   I mean, it was a great idea.   I seen everybody getting involved, K.D., James Harden.   And it was fun, man.   It was a fun game to watch. 

Q.   The TV people heard you say this is my town or this is my city or something like that. 
DION WAITERS:   Yeah, I was in the heat of the moment and that's what it's about.   I was feeling it.   And, I mean, overall great game for both teams. 

Q.   You said you have to share a lot with Kyrie in Cleveland.   Was this kind of your‑‑ do you look at this as your day to kind of step out of that a little bit, step out of his shadow a little bit and kind of have your moment and your day here?
DION WAITERS:   No, man, it is what it is.   Just playing hard and getting in the game, both of us.   And I had a little fun tonight.   And everybody else got to see too, so I'm thankful for it. 
THE MODERATOR:   All right.   Thank you.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT