SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 15, 2011
Shigeki Maruyama
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DOUG MILNE: Shigeki Maruyama joins us after a successful second round at the Sony Open of Hawai'i, 10-under for the tournament. Just a couple of comments if we can on the conditions, obviously the wind has picked up a little bit, just some thoughts as you head into the weekend.   
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: We've been blessed with good weather the last two days, and I've been lucky enough to play well these last two days. The putting has been excellent, driving the ball well. My golf game has really come together on both days.   
  
  Q. Why do you seem to play so well on this course?   
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: This course, Waialae Country Club, really fits my game. I'm not a real long hitter, but the fairways are always firm here, so you always get a run-out on your drives. On the mainland a lot of the courses you just hit and you have to carry it a long ways, which I don't do very well. But here, the length suits my game. In fact, the whole course suits my game.   
  
  Q. How long has it been at the Sony Open that you've been called into the media center for an interview?   
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: 2005 -- no, 2009.   
 I'm very grateful to the sponsor Sony for giving me a sponsor's exemption. I feel very honored to receive that exemption, and I'm glad I'm playing well to show them that I am grateful. It's been a while since I had those two good rounds together, and I'm looking forward to tomorrow.  
  
  Q. With the exemptions is there a sense of obligation or responsibility that you feel?   
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: A responsibility? Kind of. Sony is one of the very top companies in Japan, and they've been sponsoring this tournament for a long time, and I don't think I've missed a Sony Open. I'm grateful not only for the sponsor's exemption but for them sponsoring a tournament here on the PGA TOUR. So in that sense, I guess I do feel a responsibility. Again, I'm just glad I'm playing well this week.   
  
  Q. Especially because you've done so well here in the past, what would it mean to you to win this event?   
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: I haven't gotten that far yet to think about winning. Right now it's just been about really trying to play good golf and entertain the Japanese tourists who are here in number. It's good to see so many out, and also, again, like I said before, to play well for the sponsor Sony. That's really about as far as my thinking process has gotten this week.   
  
  Q. Usually leading on Saturday is good. Does it feel weird to have 36 holes to play tomorrow?   
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: I'm getting older, and 36 holes is going to be a struggle tomorrow, so I'm just kind of just taking it easy and let it come.  
  
  Q. When is the last time you played 36 in one day?   
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: I've played quite a few 36-holers in Japan because of the rain and they postpone and a lot of other times we have to play 36 on Sunday.  
  
  Q. That's made you an old man.   
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: Yeah. My feet. It's a problem. (Laughs.)  
  
  Q. Talk about your off-season training and if 36 holes is going to be a struggle tomorrow physically.   
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: Of course.   
  
  Q. Are you going to pace yourself throughout the day tomorrow?   
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: Yeah, I'll be drinking a lot of water and walking slowly.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT