SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 14, 2005
Shigeki Maruyama
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TODD BUDNICK:  We thank Shigeki Maruyama for stopping by after a 5-under 65 todays are the current second round leader.

Shigeki, just one bogey today, very nice round.  Give would you give us a comment.
SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  My golf is very stead's today from the tee box to the green.  Everything is playing very well.  It's a little bit hard to read the greens here, but I'm making some good putts.  It's been very steady.
TODD BUDNICK:  Were the conditions any different today, the wind?
SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  It's really difficult to read the wind.  It's not as strong as yesterday, but it's coming from a little bit different direction.  The same way but it's a little bit different direction.  So it's very hard to play in this wind.
TODD BUDNICK:  We'll take some questions.
Q.  Not getting a win last year, I wanted to know, how did you feel missing out on last week, and is that one of your goals to get back there?
SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  Of course I missed that tournament.  I really wanted to play that tournament.  That's one of my goals every year.  But hopefully this year one of my goals is to win a tournament, any tournament this year.  So I'm aiming for that, for the first goal.
Q.  Talk about, you made a bogey on the 12th hole yesterday and 16 today.
SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  Everybody makes a bogey in the game.  Yesterday on 12, I there was a wind coming from a different side which I don't like, I didn't like.  And just 16 today, just I putt the ball, a lot bigger mistake in the game.
Q.  You didn't play much golf in Japan, why are you playing so well for the first tournament?
SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  I've been working out during my off-season, the last six weeks.  I didn't play golf much.  I didn't hit the ball much the last six weeks, but of course I was worried about my game, the first tournament of the year.  But I'm not very nervous now.  I'm very -- I don't know why, but I'm very calm.
Q.  Considering your preparation into this tournament into this week, you must be very happy with your position right now.  How do you rate your game.  Out of ten?
SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  I would say my game is six.  I would rate my game as six out of ten.  Because I'm always worried about the shot from the tee box.  So I'm not very confident in my golf at the moment.  So I'm just going to say six now.
Q.  Were you satisfied with your back nine?  You were 5-under after ten holes.
SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  It's golf.  (Laughter.)
Q.  Did you let any of the holes, the birdie holes get away?
SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  I could hit into the rough more the front nine, so it was really hard to make a birdie chance from the rough.  I should have made some putts.  That's what I'm disappointed in, but the only putt I was disappointed was the 17th hole.  I should have made that putt.
Q.  How long was that?
SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  Nine feet.
Q.  Do you consider yourself to be a good player in the wind, and would you prefer to for it to keep blowing or calm down?
SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  Fortunately, I can play well in this wind this week.  The only weather I don't like is the rain.  I've been playing in the strong wind the last two days -- the first two days.

If the wind stops from tomorrow, it could be like more hard to judge the distance.  So I don't mind playing in the wind the next two days.  I'm not hitting long or hitting it straight all the time, so I'm the leader at the moment, but if the wind stops, if the conditions are getting easier, all of the players are making big scores.  So I'd prefer playing like in this difficult conditions the next two day to make it hard golf for everybody.
TODD BUDNICK:  Can we just go through your card, Shigeki?  Birdie on 5.
SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  5, tee shot, driver.  Second shot 5-iron, about 27 feet.

8, tee shot, driver, fairway.  Second shot 8-iron, three feet.

9, tee shot, right side first cut.  Second shot 4-iron left side bunker and the chip-in.

No. 10, tee shot, driver, fairway.  Second shot sand wedge 15 feet.

15, tee shot, 5-wood, fairway middle.  Second shot, 9-iron, nine feet.

16, tee shot through the left side rough, driver.  Second shot, 8-iron, lay up.  Third shot, sand wedge, 15 feet, miss.
TODD BUDNICK:  How far was the chip-in from the bunker?
SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  50 yards.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT