U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 19, 2004
Shigeki Maruyama
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Joining us on the podium now, Shigeki Maruyama, 2-under for the championship.
Q.  Three players today finished below par, the course is playing really, really difficult, and if it is are you content with your score today?
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  The course was very tough today, very windy, and I couldn't get much fairways, much greens, same as last two days, but I'm pretty happy except for the 18th hole, I'm disappointed.  But still three shots behind, I'm just going to try with my golf tomorrow.
Q.  If the wind picks up tomorrow, would you expect to see a winning score in black numbers?
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  If it's blowing tomorrow, it's possible to get black numbers tomorrow.
Q.  How do you feel about your chances tomorrow?
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  I'm still three shot behind the leader, I'll do my best.
Q.  I saw you talking with Mr. Aoki, what were you talking, he finished second in this in 1980, what were you talking about?
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  He told me that you're doing very well, just do your best golf tomorrow.
Q.  You were talking a few days ago and you were laughing a little bit and saying that if you had wind in your practice rounds you would have had probably an 80, you were surprised to be in contention and even made the cut.  You were surprised you were in one of the final pairings in a U.S. Open going into Sunday, so how do you feel, are you excited?
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  I'm still a few shots behind, so of course I'd love to be in the final group tomorrow, in the final day tomorrow, but if I can get -- if I play well I'd like to finish early with a good score.
Q.  Do you have an opinion or a theory about why no Asian man golfer has won a major championship?  The females from Korea have done well in golf.  What will it take -- do you have an opinion why no Asian man has not done it before now?  You may be in a position to do it tomorrow?
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  KJ started in Japan and Greg Norman started in Japan, that's one of the best field in the world, and so I think new players coming from Asian Tour from there in the future.
Q.  So it's just a matter of numbers, not as many?
SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  Yes.
Q.  I didn't see you wear earplugs today, but you seemed to do okay with the crowd?
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  Really painful, very noisy on the greens.
Q.  The crowd seemed to be on your side a little bit, too, also, right, some?
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  A little bit.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT