U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 17, 2004
Shigeki Maruyama
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  Obviously the course is difficult, very difficult, but today is not a very windy day.  Also I hit my shot perfectly on all the holes from the tee box, from the fairways, even the putting.

It was a perfect day, very comfortable.
Q.  Because there was no wind, was there a feeling that this was a day to get a little bit aggressive and go out and get that red number while you could get it?
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  I just tried to get even par today.  Through the practice round I never hit under pars here, so I thought not to try 80s like last night.  I wasn't very aggressive.
Q.  What is the significance of being on the leaderboard after the first round?  You're among two people at the top of the leaderboard.
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  It's very special, comfortable.  I just can't explain how happy I am.  I'm very happy.
Q.  How long was the putt?  You had one long putt for birdie.
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  60 feet, the 10th hole.
Q.  (Inaudible).
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  It's playing tough around the holes.  You couldn't imagine how long this putt goes.
Q.  Do you take any significance out of being the leader after the first round?  It's a long stretch, but you've got to take something positive away from this.
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  I'm just trying to make a cut now, and I don't have much experience in that position in a major tournament.  I'll try to play my golf the rest of the three days, see how my golf works in a major.
Q.  What happened on the first tee where you ran up and barely got there for the tee time?
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  Big problem.
Q.  Having played with Tiger, I know he obviously has a lot of fans.  What is that like to be with Tiger, with two such popular players, a lot of media?
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  Of course great people, a big number of people following Tiger, that make me maybe nervous, those people, but I played five or six times with Tiger in a tournament, always play well.

Of course, I watched Tiger's play, how he's playing, and he also brings me -- if I'm playing with him, that brings me a great rhythm actually, good tempos on the course, always happy and great to play with Tiger on the golf course.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT