CHRYSLER CLASSIC OF GREENSBORO
October 19, 2003
Shigeki Maruyama
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TODD BUDNICK:  We welcome the champion of the 2003 Chrysler Classic of Greensboro, Shigeki Maruyama.  A wonderful performance this week.  You never gave anybody a chance today.  Talk a little bit about the tournament. 

SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:   I wasn't expecting this kind of golf this week.  I also surprised my golf this week to play that well, and the putting is the biggest thing during this tournament in my game.  That's the best putting time in all my life.

TODD BUDNICK:  Shigeki, you've become one of four players to win each of the last three seasons, Tiger Woods, Jim Furyk, Justin Leonard.  What does that say about your game on the PGA Tour?

SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:   I'm really happy to be one of those players, Tiger Woods, Jim Furyk, Justin Leonard, all the big names in that group, and I'm very happy to be part of it.  And this brought me a lot of confidence after I injured my neck in March this year.  Hopefully I can play better golf the rest of the season and next year.

TODD BUDNICK:  You had given serious thought to not playing in the U.S. Tour because of your injury.  Are you glad you stuck to it?

SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:   Four weeks ago I was thinking I should go back to Japan, and have an operation or I should keep staying here and playing on the Tour.  I was having cortisone shots on my shoulder and neck every two months, so I was struggling with my golf and struggling with my body, but I'm really happy now.  It shows I can stay in the States and play golf.


Q.   Why did you putt so well this week all of a sudden?

SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:   I don't know why.


Q.   Change your putter?  Change your stance?  Anything?

SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:   I changed my stance about four weeks ago.  I talked to my friend, Kenichi Kuboya, who is another Japanese player on the PGA Tour and tried his putting style.  And I spoke to my swing coach in Japan and he also gave me good advice and said Kenichi Kuboya has good putting style, try it.


Q.   Did you open your stance?  Close it?

SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:   Tight.


Q.   With your feet?

SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: Yes.


Q.   What does that do for you?  How does that help you?

SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:   After I closed the stance tighter, my hands don't have to move.  I just make my swing compact and make it smooth.  When I'm in a bad time for the putting, my backswing was big and follow through was small.  After I changed my stance, it worked very well.


Q.   I think with the win today you'll go from 76 to 35th on the money list.  Six weeks ago would you have dreamed you would be in this position today?

SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:   A couple of weeks ago, at the Southern Farm Bureau Classic I was trying to get to 125 on the money list.  I had a good week over there.  Now I'm in the top-70 on the money list on the PGA Tour.  After this victory, now I can be in the Tour Championship.  Big chance.  Still far away to go, but I'll try to work hard and try to get in the Top-30.


Q.   On No. 9, it was kind of the turning point where you made a bogey and Brad could have made a short birdie putt.  He missed that.  Did that change your thinking at all or did you think maybe you had him there?

SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:   After I hit the 4th tee shot on No. 9, it was obvious to get the bogey, but I never expected Brad to miss that putt for the birdie.  I really appreciate Brad Faxon's putt on the 9th hole.  If he made that putt, made that birdie putt, I would have more pressure and my heart is beating everywhere.


Q.   What happened on the third shot there?  Did you misjudge the shot?

SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:   The flyer happened there in the big rough, big roughs surrounded the bowl around there, only around the bowl.


Q.   Talk about your up-and-down from the sand on 15.  Was that a hard up-and-down, and did that pretty much seal the deal?

SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:   I'm putting well this week.  100 percent sand saves this week.  I'm really confident in sand around the greens.  I aimed for the bunker on the second shot.


Q.   Were you nervous when you started out today?

SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:   Of course since last night and the first two, three holes, there was pressure.  After that, I don't remember where it is, but I felt relaxed and played my golf.


Q.   Now that you're playing so well, are you disappointed you can't play the Presidents Cup?

SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:   Of course I'm a little bit disappointed not being a member of the Presidents Cup because I'm playing well.  If September 11 didn't happen a few years ago I would be a member because I was playing well last year.  I'm still looking forward to the next Presidents Cup.  I'll try to keep playing well until then.


Q.   What will you drink to celebrate?

SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:   Starbucks iced latte, of course.


Q.   Nothing stronger?

SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:   With a double shot.

TODD BUDNICK:  Let's go through your strokes, Shigeki.

SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:   Tee shot driver, second shot sand wedge about 18 feet.

No. 4, tee shot 5-iron, about 25 feet.

No. 5, tee shot 3-wood, sand shot 53-degree wedge, about 15 feet.

No. 9, tee shot driver, left side rough, second shot 5-iron, third shot 53-degree wedge over, fourth shot 45 feet, two putts.

No. 11, tee shot driver, second shot 9-iron, three feet.

No. 13, tee shot 5-wood, second shot 5-wood, third shot sand wedge, chip shot about nine feet.

No. 15, tee shot driver in the left side rough, second shot 3-wood front bunker, third shot sand wedge, four feet.


Q.   Is this the best you've played in any tournament from putting to hitting the ball to striking the ball to driving?

SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:   It could be one of the best tournaments.  When I won the Byron Nelson tournament last year, I was having great putting, but this year, this week, I had sensational putting.


Q.   Will this win make you more popular?

SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:   I think everybody is happy now to hear this news, but I'm already popular enough.


Q.   On No. 13, you were 5-under for four days.  What do you think about that hole?

SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:   This is the third time playing Greensboro.  The last two times I was struggling on the 13th hole, but this year I was hitting the ball well, putting well, and the 13th hole set my victory this week.

TODD BUDNICK:  Congratulations, Shigeki.



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT