CHRYSLER CLASSIC OF GREENSBORO
October 18, 2003
Shigeki Maruyama
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
CHRIS REIMER:  Shigeki, 2-under par today 70, 17-under for the tournament.  You started off very well and then on 13 you had a great second shot and made three.  Talk a little bit about that hole and the momentum you got from that hole.

SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: That was the perfect hole.  A perfect shot from the tee box, a perfect 3-iron, the second shot, and perfect putt.  That hole saved my game today.


Q.   How important going into tomorrow's round was making that par save, the long putt on 18 to finish the round?

SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: It brought a lot of confidence for tomorrow's game.  It's a big difference for a two-shot lead and three-shot lead for the last day, but Brad is still a very good player, one of the best players in the world in putting, so I'll have to run away tomorrow from him.


Q.   How long was that putt on 18?

SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: 24 feet.


Q.   How do you feel about the way you played today?

SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: Of course the pressure came on me from the beginning.  After three holes I started relaxing and I made birdie on 5 and it was good.  But it was an unexpected thing on 7, double bogey.  And Brad making putts, catching up with me.  So I started having another pressure.  Fortunately I had an eagle over there and it saved my game today.


Q.   Describe what happened on No. 7, please. 

SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  The ball on the second shot, I hit it farther than expected, and the place where the ball was, it was the toughest place to reach the hole.  And the grass is bermudagrass.  It's one of my unfavorite grasses, so it was really tough to approach the ball to the hole.  I missed the first approach shot and hit on the green and two putted.


Q.   Does the way Brad putts put a lot of pressure on you because he never seems to miss?

SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  Of course.  I just thought if Brad is on the green, the putt is going in the hole, so try not to think about missing that putt.  I just had to make some birdies, get some lower scores.  That's what I thought today.


Q.   Do you think you'll feel nervous tomorrow?

SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: Of course I'll feel the pressure tomorrow, but also Brad Faxon should feel the pressure to catch up with me tomorrow, so it's even.


Q.   Do you have a number in mind for tomorrow?

SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: No idea, but at least 3-under.  20-under for the total.  It would be hard to make 3-under, but if somebody goes 20-under, this is the PGA Tour, it can't be helped, so I'll concentrate and play my golf tomorrow.


Q.   Which parts of your game were better Thursday and Friday than today?

SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: I didn't play as good as the last two days today, but it was really hard with the wind to aim at the pin today, but still having good putting, hopefully it comes tomorrow.  Hopefully I will have another good day tomorrow.

CHRIS REIMER:  Let's go through your birdies and bogeys.

SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: No.  2, tee shot driver, fairway, second shot 5-wood, about 60 feet, 2-putt.

No. 5, tee shot 5-wood, left side rough, second shot 53-degree wedge, about 24 feet.

No. 7, tee shot 3-iron, second shot pitching wedge over the green, chip shot, missed shot, and another chip shot 6, 7 feet.

No. 13, driver, 3-iron, about 15 feet.


Q.   How far was the 3-iron?

SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: 216.

CHRIS REIMER:  Thank you. 



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT