BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 21, 2002
Shigeki Maruyama
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: Towards the end of the round I had difficulty in composing myself.  However, it was such a great experience that I'm pleased that I've played well the first nine.  I thought I was making up for yesterday, but the green seemed to be a little bit fast.  That's why my putter was too long for the 10th.  I thought my return was right, but I broke.  That made me think too much for the putting at the 13th.  There seems to be an invisible pressure somewhere in my mind, though it was not the heart pumping one.  I didn't feel the pressure early on.  But when I came to the 18th, I did feel it.  I feel I've grown up through this experience, such experience is very important.  I learned that as long as I'm playing my own golf I will see a chance to win.  I understand how much expectation was cast onto me from the Japanese fans.  I tried to surpass Mr. Kuramoto's achievement, but I will keep trying next year on. 

Q.   How did you feel when you holed out at the 18th?
SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: The four-day major tournament is over.  Such a great experience.

Q.   How did you find your play today?
SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: I found the green a bit faster.  I did pay attention to that, but that return putt on the 
10th I never expected that kind of breaking.  I never expected that which affected me in losing the Tempo of my play in the 11th, 12th, and 13th, and then at the 15th when I got out of the rough, I regained my own feeling which helped me in the holes from 16 to the end.  So in the end I'm pleased.

Q.   Was that what pressure did to you?
SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: Well, the bogey on the 12th was expected, so I lost composure you are.  It was not the heart pumping pressure, but it was there.  I suddenly realized that my body was not moving the way I thought it would.  When I hit the tee shot at the 12th.  That was the pressure of major tournaments.  Now I'm through it so I feel matured.  I'm a Tempo player.  I have a rhythm in my mind when I play.  Then suddenly all I felt was a vacuum.

Q.   Did you feel that you'd win at the end of the 9th?
SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: Yes yeah I was feeling a good rhythm so I thought I would make it.  Then at the 10th green I didn't predict that kind of breaking though I had got away with it when I teed well at the 11th, but then at the 12th my body just didn't move.  However, I did regain the rhythm and came back in the last holes, which I appreciate.

Q.   Did you see the leader board?
SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: Yes, I knew what was going on.  I knew Ernie had come up to 7 but thought it wouldn't be too easy.

Q.   Is winning the major different from winning other tournaments?
SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: I don't know it yet.  I felt the same way as I did when I won Byron Nelson, especially in the first nine holes.  When I won Milwaukee I felt some poisonous sting (laughter).

Q.   Do you find your result regrettable?
SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: No, I don't.  I played my golf.  I did come back to the leader board today, which pleases me.  I think my emotional control has been improved.

Q.   Did your bogey at the first affect your play afterwards?
SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: No, it didn't.  The shot itself was not too bad anyway.  At that point I was not feeling any pressure.  Some top players say that they would focus on majors, but I don't think it's possible for me to do so.  I keep my good work for every tournament and I'll manage my major tournaments as events in my whole tournament schedule where I will see how good I can play.

Q.   How did you spend your night last night?
SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: Watched Japanese commodity videos called the life of laughing dogs and went to bed at 230 in the morning.  Yes, I'm a night owl and got up at 10:30 a.m., quite late.  During my practice here, Isao Aoki gave me a very good advice about my iron shots.  I did know my problem but his advice really helped me and my iron shot improved a lot.

Q.   Do you play the PGA?
SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: Yes, I'll arrive there on Sunday before the tournament starts.

Q.   Do you think you matured because you became a father?
SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: I don't know.  I heard that my son Sean was watching me on TV and when I sighed he sighed in front of the TV.  I am not sure if I've matured since some part of myself is just like a kid, but I have to say I'm in good condition mentally.  I try to avoid getting frustrated.  If I get mad, I try too putt my tension low so that I wouldn't get furious.  I pick up my mood while thinking about other things and then pull my tension up.  Now I seem to be doing that. 




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT