BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2002
Shigeki Maruyama
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







STEWART McDOUGAL: Shigeki Maruyama 68 today, 136.  6 under tying for the lead.  How did today's round go?  Tell us about your round today.
SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: As I reviewed my first day yesterday, today my tee shot was very good followed by a very superior second shot and putting was very good as well, although I missed a couple, so overall it was a wonderful day.

Q.  You appear to have a very good time while you're playing out there.  Do you ever get angry on the course, and when you do, what do you?
SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: I just laugh (laughter).

Q.  You said yesterday that Tiger played in a different world.  You're still ahead of Tiger.  You must be getting closer?
SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: I don't think I'm getting closer at all.

Q.  After two days playing with Tiger and finishing ahead of him, how much satisfaction do you derive from that?
SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: How happy I am, I am very happy, however, it wouldn't last too long because if I make a bogey and he makes a birdie that will be it, but I am happy to be leading him after two days after playing with him for two days, but golf is a four-day sport, so in the end I'm sure he'll be on top of me.

Q.  Just as a follow-up, how do you feel about not having to play with Tiger tomorrow?
SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: Very difficult question to answer.  I don't mind playing with anybody as long as the partner is not a slow player.

Q.  You say that at the end Tiger will still be above you.  Does that mean you don't think you can win?
SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: Of course I'd like to win.  However if I keep saying that I want to win, I want to win, that only makes myself suffering, so I'd like to play my golf throughout the tournament.  That's what I'd like to do.  And if I win, that's another bonus.  And if I'm leading after the third day, I might make another comment and if on the final day, if I'm going to play with Tiger, I will try my best to defeat him.  However, I'm not saying that I will not be able to win, however, at this moment I don't have the confidence to make any comment about me winning.

Q.  Did you always feel that these types of golf courses were well suited for your game?
SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: Well, technically speaking this course does not want the players to hit the wrong way.  We have to hit straight, so basically it's not really suitable for me.  However,  even I can play good golf as long as I can keep it in the fairway.  And if I see my past experiences, I've had some fortunate opportunities where even though my balls went into the rough area, the area has been flattened by the crowd or something.  So if there's any major tournament that Japanese players can win, this Open Championship could be the win.  So I can say it suits me.

Q.  To quote you, you said yesterday Tiger kept on saying (sighs).  What was Tiger saying today?
SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: I can't describe in words.  Very sorry.

Q.  Can he show us?
SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: (clenches teeth and grunts)

Q.  Watching you on the greens today, if you sunk a putt or missed the putt your reaction was the same, smiling and happy, is this just a natural part of your personality or something you've worked on to try to control your game?
SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: Well, sometimes I do show my anger, like when I go into the woods and kick some trees or something, but I do it in a way that nobody will notice.  And I do feel sorry and I really feel mad when I miss the putt.  However, if I get angry, that really consumes my energy and that's the last thing I want to do.  I want to save as much energy as I could.  And if missing the putt is as a result of bad luck, I'm hitting all right however it didn't make it then I really get bad.  However in the last  - as long as I can remember   - that kind of anger did not strike me as bad as I smash my clubs onto the green or anything.

Q.  Have you always been a happy chap?  You are always smiling.  What makes you happy?
SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: Please ask my parents.  They are all like me.

Q.  All smiles?
SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: Yes.  Nice family (laughter).
STEWART McDOUGAL:  Thank you very much. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT