VERIZON BYRON NELSON CLASSIC
May 10, 2002
Shigeki Maruyama
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Shigeki Maruyama, today 10-under par for the tournament, our current leader.  Maybe start with some opening comments about your round today and we'll open it up to questions.
SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  I had a good driving shot, iron shot, putting all collected together.  The only short ones on 18 in the tee box, that's all.  I am really satisfied with my game today. 

Q.   Your run in Texas lately, the past year, fourth in Houston, fifth I think at Colonial last year.  You really like this state?
SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: I like Texas and I especially like Colonial Golf Course.  It's like a Japanese golf course it's surrounded by trees, that's why I am probably having good results.  At this time I am maybe having good golf every year, probably that's why, I think. 

Q.   Are you going to play Colonial?
SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: Yes.

Q.   How long do you think the putt was on 17 and how surprised were you that it went in?
SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: 42 feet.  It was really surprising, very happy as much as when I eat good food when I found good food in the States   - wasn't expecting. (Laughter).

Q.   I am curious, a couple of years ago I think you were in contention in San Diego, and you and Tiger Woods were both in contention and the question was asked of you about what if you go head-to-head in the final round.  I think your response was something like "No chance."  I am wondering now a couple of years later with a win under your belt here, how much more confident are you and do you feel more like this is where you belong?
SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: Little chance.  (Laughs).  Still not confident enough.  I don't say no chance this time because of the strong field in this tournament.  I might be able to  -- might be able to win this tournament because I have confidence after I won the Milwaukee tournament last year that gave me big confidence since then.  As long as I can play my golf, the best golf in this field, I probably have a chance to win.

Q.   Was this as well as you have hit the ball this season?  Was it your best ball-striking round?
SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: No.  At Houston it was better.  The whole tournament I was hitting it better.  Sometime these things happen, so I am surprised too.

Q.   Did you have any problems with the wind today?  Did the wind change your game any?
SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: It's difficult to decide which clubs go which direction, but every shot went where I wanted it to go, so I was surprised that everything was together.

Q.   A couple of years ago when you were leading or close to the lead in San Diego, Tiger was trying to win his 7th straight tournament and you were asked do you think you can beat Tiger.  You said no.  Now, that you have won on Tour, played as well as you have, do you have confidence to  -- it has been already asked?
Q.   Yes.
SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: Little chance.  Two years ago, no chance.  But little chance right now, little confidence.  (Laughs).

Q.   I get the idea, thanks.  Thanks for stopping me, boys. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT