MERCEDES CHAMPIONSHIPS
January 2, 2002
Shigeki Maruyama
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








INTERPRETER:  I'd like to make another win to prove that that's not a fluke last year to win the Milwaukee tournament. 
MODERATOR:  Questions.
SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  Nothing?  Thank you very much (laughter). 
Q.   How much has your English improved in the couple years you've been on tour?
SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  A little bit. 
Q.   A little bit?
SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  Yeah.  Little growing (indicating). 
INTERPRETER:  He understands quite a lot of English. 
Q.   We can't say anything bad about him in front of his face before.
INTERPRETER:  Exactly.
Q.   Have you ever played in Maui before?
SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  Yes.  Different host, Wailea, Kaanapali. 
Q.   You've been very well in some of The World Golf Championship events since '99.  When you're here with other players that have won, does it make you feel like you've accomplished something?  Do you feel better about yourself?
INTERPRETER:  He's not very happy with the World Golf results.  He could do better.  He's getting confident since he came over here, but it's not much different as before, as well. 
Q.   What are the goals for the year?  What do you want to accomplish? 
INTERPRETER:  First thing, he like to have another win this year to show you guys  -- to prove it's not fluke to win that Milwaukee tournament.  If he can, he wants to be Top 30 at the end of this year.  He's aiming that.
Q.   Majors? 
INTERPRETER:  No.  Of course, he wants to be in the Top 10.  He's not very keen  -- of course, he wants to win, but he's not very focused to the major.  He just want to win in any tournament. 
Q.   Majors are a big deal for most of the American players.  Are they as prestigious to him, important to him? 
INTERPRETER:  He has been playing in a major tournament quite a lot.  Now he understands it's really hard to win the major tournament.  He's not very focused to win the major tournament at the moment.  He just wants to find out what he needs to win the major.  That's what he want to do.  He wants to find what he needs. 
Q.   How much did the win last year help you, help your confidence, knowing that he does belong here, this is the right spot for you to be playing?
INTERPRETER:  He wasn't expecting to win that tournament last year.  He's getting confident.  He's been playing quite a lot here.  It's really hard to get in the top position.  But he could win that week, so he just getting in the confident.  If he plays very well here.  He find out he can win. 
That really helped him, his mind, yes. 
Q.   When you won Milwaukee, a lot of the US players that were at the British Open were very happy.  Why do you think American players like you so much?
INTERPRETER:  He's very happy being, like, (set up?) by everybody.  Everybody says congratulations at the British Open.  He understands to win the tournament, when he win a tournament, everybody thinks, "Oh, Shigeki, now he won.  He can win any tournament."  All the players start changing to look his way like now he's strong now. 
A lot of shake hands at the British Open.  That's why he missed the cut (laughter). 
Q.   What has been his toughest adjustment, playing over here full-time?  Has it been getting used to the courses?  Has it been travel?  Has it been homesickness?  What has been his toughest adjustment being over here? 
INTERPRETER:  He's having a trouble for like the jet lag, time difference.  When he get to the other place, he's go to the gym, get refreshed, get some big room to make him relax as much as he can, yeah. 
Q.   Does he have any hats like "Shingo"?
INTERPRETER:  No, he doesn't.  He doesn't like it (laughter). 
Q.   Is that all he said?
INTERPRETER:  Yes. 
Q.   What do you need to improve yourself more?  You win tournament last year. 
INTERPRETER:  The answer was he work to improve everything.  Some week he has good driver, but bad putting.  Some week he has bad driver, bad shot, but good putting. 
He want to improve everything more to make average everything's better, to make everything's better to get in top. 
Q.   Were you intimidated by Tiger Woods when you first came over here?  Are you less intimidated now? 
INTERPRETER:  Same as when he came over here.  Tiger is playing the other world.  Even he plays together on the course, he doesn't care about Tiger's play.  He just wants to play his way. 
He thinks about Tiger, when he hit, as far as Tiger, it's completely different.  He actually don't care how he play.  Shig just plays his way. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT