WGC EMC WORLD CUP
November 13, 2001
Toshimitsu Izawa
Shigeki Maruyama
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TOSHIMITSU IZAWA:   First of all, I'd like to have a win for this tournament.  But there are many strong players playing, so it might be difficult.  But, it's not fun to aim second or third, so my aim is to win the tournament. 

SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  I have the same opinion.  (Laughter.)  I will try my best as a team and try to win the tournament. 

Q.  Mr.  Izawa, you just came back from Miyazaki and  Mr.  Maruyama played with Tiger yesterday, and today was the practice round.  Being together, what's your impression of the course and how was it playing today? 

TOSHIMITSU IZAWA:   I played many years here in the Taiheiyo Club with the Taiheiyo Masters.  It seems like the greens are a little bit faster compared to the Masters, but the greens are not so hard.  Today's round, I had a little bit of trouble with putting, but it's just still a practice round.  So I'd like to practice two days and get ready for the first round.  But it's team work, so I'd like to cooperate with Maruyama to play. 

SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  I wasn't playing too well.  I'm a little bit tired.  This is only a practice round, and by the time of the first day of the tournament, I will be ready for the tournament. 

Q.  It's obvious that the scores are going to be low.  We would like to ask you, which hole it a key point to make a low score on this golf course? 

TOSHIMITSU IZAWA:  It is team work, but for sure, to have a birdie on the par  5's.  And obviously, the top-ranking player is playing this tournament, so even if it's a difficult par 4, we probably have to make birdies on the par 4's. 

SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  Well, from my experience playing the PGA TOUR in the States, the par 5's, you have to shoot a very low score.  But even a par 3, it is necessary to have a good score.  There's not many key holes, but to have a low score on every hole is necessary. 

Q.  Can you tell us, this week there is expected to be a little bit lower temperature, do you have any strategies for the lower temperature? 

TOSHIMITSU IZAWA:   I don't have much thought about it.  I'm going to wear a high-neck shirt to prepare for the cold weather. 

SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  Well, for me, it's also to wear nice clothes, but the more important thing is to try not to hit in the woods and stay in the sun; or, to put the ball inside the lake, not to have a cold shot.  (Laughter.)

Q.  In the four-ball, who is going to have the first tee shot? 

SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  I'm going to  -- I'm not the shot-maker.  So I'm going to have the easier hole, the tee shot; that is, odd holes. 

Q.  On Thursday, the first round, you are going to be playing with Tiger Woods and David Duval, the World Ranking No. 1 team.  Do you have any thought about that, are you going to enjoy it or you going to be a little bit nervous about that? 

TOSHIMITSU IZAWA:   Probably I am going to have a little bit faster heartbeat.

SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  I have played with him before.  I'm not sure until I get up to the No. 1 tee.  But the important thing is to be calm and be as usual. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT