DORAL-RYDER OPEN
March 3, 2000
Shigeki Maruyama
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: No. 1, tee shot driver, second shot 3-iron, third shot, sand wedge
one feet birdie. No. 2 tee shot driver, fairway, second shot, sand wedge, five feet,
1-putt. No. 3, tee shot, driver, second shot pitching wedge. Three feet. Birdie. That is
the front 9. No. 10, tee shot driver, second shot 3-iron, chip shot nine feet, 1-putt
birdie. 11, tee shot, 3-iron, second shot 9-iron, six feet, 1-putt birdie. No. 14, tee
shot driver, left side of the bunker, second shot, 7-iron, five feet, 1-putt birdie. No.
15, tee shot 7-iron, eight feet, 1-putt birdie. No. 17, tee shot driver, second shot,
9-iron, nine feet, 1-putt birdie. That is it. No. 16, I shoot into the edge of the green
at the back and I 3-putted and bogeyed. 
 
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: If nothing, I'd like to go leave as soon as possible. I am nervous. 
 
Q. What were you most proud of today, irons, drivers? What was the best part of your
game today?
 
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: Everything connected together and all were very well. 
 
Q. You were ten years old when you saw Aoki fought Jack Nicklaus at the 1980 U.S. Open
at Baltusrol, did you get a chance to watch that on television? Did that mean a lot to you
right before you shot even par for your first time?
 
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: I was watching the TV, yes. 
 
Q. That is why he started?
 
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: No, that is not why. That is the year I started playing. Didn't make
me play golf. I was really interested in it. 
 
Q. Was Aoki his idol or mentor? Who was your role model growing up?
 
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: Tom Watson. 
 
Q. Playing with Ames today, did that help inspire your game?
 
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: Just watching him really good, didn't make me really well. I just
played my golf and I played well, that is it, yes. I didn't care about how Ames played
well. I just played my golf and it all connected well. 
 
Q. Do you think you can win this weekend?
 
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: Tiger is not here so there is a lot of possibility. (laughs). 
 
Q. What do you like about playing here at Doral? Are you enjoying any of the local
restaurants?
 
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: It is nice weather, good golf course. I am enjoying pretty much,
enjoying playing in this course very much except he (indicating the interpreter) locked me
out ON the balcony a few nights ago. (laughs). 
 
Q. A couple of years ago you had a big charge at Augusta. Went 5 and 0 in The
Presidents Cup two years ago. Fifth place last year at the World Golf Championships,
Andersen Consulting, you seem to -- when there are big tournaments your game seems to
lift, any reason for that?
 
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: I knew last year I would be able to play in the States, August last
year I start training for this year and I start changing all my muscles, like training all
the time and that makes me very confident playing, got more distance, more accuracy, that
makes me -- the training makes me very confident. 
 
Q. Is that why you have had 3 Top-10 finishes events this year in five events?
 
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: Yes, that is correct. 
 
Q. Do you train while you are playing here during the tournaments?
 
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: Yes. 
 
Q. Tonight, later?
 
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: Yes. 
 
Q. You are also well known not for your golf, but your big smile that you always seem
to have out on television. Is that just your overall personality or loves being between
the ropes? Why are you so happy all the time?
 
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: That is my personality. I think I talk funny so I laugh at myself and
it makes the people laugh. And I was told by my parents if you are happy, smile all the
time. That is what I was told so that is why I am smiling all the time. 
 
Q. Did you make any mental preparations this off-season?
 
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: No, I didn't. During my play from my experience I train my mental by
myself. Experience makes the power. 
 
Q. Have the changes in the Blue Monster turned this into a fairly easy golf course?
 
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: I can't swim - I don't like water, there is lots of water on the golf
course. I feel very good when I address the ball. 
 
 FastScripts by ASAP Sports  
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT