GINN SUR MER CLASSIC AT TESORO
October 29, 2007
Shigeki Maruyama
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Tied for second, runner-up finish.  Good showing today, obviously, and the big move on the money list, too.  Can we just talk about your week and the relief to secure your card for next year? 
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  I'm very, very happy.  I didn't think I was going to be able to finish even top 5. 
 This year was really, really hard.  It was the most difficult year in eight years for myself.  I'm just really happy I'm able to finish this high on the money ranking. 
 THE MODERATOR:  You were trying to get into top 150 earlier, now it's top 125. 
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  I was trying so hard to finish 150.  Now I got within 125.  I don't know what to say.  I'm really happy. 

 Q.  Is that the best you've ever felt finishing second in a golf tournament, I suppose, huh? 
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  It's really, really huge for me to be able to finish second in this situation.  I was almost losing my Tour Card for next year, but I was able to finish second.  It means huge for myself. 

 Q.  Had you not finished inside the top 125, you would have probably played both tours, some in Japan and some here, depending on whether you could have gotten in which would have been, obviously, difficult. 
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  I was planning to play U.S. Tour and the Japanese Tour in Japan.  I didn't think I was going to finish top 125, so now I've got 125. 
 But for next year, I'm going to try to get the tour card earlier in the season, not this late in the year.  But that will be nice.  I hope I can play better next year. 

 Q.  Could you talk about how difficult it is to play tournaments like this where you know your Tour Card is at stake or you're trying to get it? 
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  I'm not very experienced at losing the Tour Card.  I didn't even have a chance to use the Tour Card in Japan, so this is my first experience I almost lost the card.  But I learned a lot from this, and I learned the hard way, but I learned a lot from this tournament. 

 Q.  (Indiscernible)? 
 THE MODERATOR:  Any disappointment about not winning? 
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  I was trying to make two pars.  I knew Daniel was going to make birdie on 16, the par 5 and sure he did. 
 But I knew I was going to need one more birdie to win the tournament to tie with Daniel.  But somewhere in myself I was trying to make two pars.  And if two pars doesn't do anything, then it doesn't do winning this week.  It was okay, but I was trying really hard to make two pars on the last two holes. 

 Q.  What time did you have to get up this morning?  I know you have to go through the hot showers and there is a considerable warm-up for you? 
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  4:25 a.m. this morning. 

 Q.  That's why you were drinking Diet Cokes at 7:00 a.m.  (laughing)? 
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  Thank you very much. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT