GINN SUR MER CLASSIC AT TESORO
October 28, 2007
Shigeki Maruyama
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.   Talk about the round.   
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA (through a translator): The wind was blowing really hard, but we got off to a good start, three birdies in a row. But in between, he had a couple of three putts, was struggling a little bit. But at the end, he made an eagle and finished out better.   
  
  Q.   What does an eagle do for the momentum tomorrow?   
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: Now he's tied for first with the eagle. So he'll do whatever he can tomorrow.   
  
  Q.   Talk about the eagle.   
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: I was in the rough off the tee, and I was trying to hit it in the right or left greenside bunker, so I could chip it close to the hole. But we got in the right-side bunker, so we were lucky to be in the bunker, and he was trying to hit it close to the hole, and luckily, he made it.   
  
  Q.   Talk about the money list and where you are and what you need to do this week, next week.   
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: I was actually not trying to get into the top 125; I was trying to finish 150. Luckily, we got a chance this week to finish 125.   
  
  Q.   What's it been like for you to have to battle that for the first time in your career, having that hanging over your head?   
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: The golf course got a lot harder than it used to be. That was one of the problems, and I didn't have the power game always. I had the short game always, but the golf courses got a lot longer, and I struggled a little bit.   
  
  Q.   He chipped in on 16.   
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: Off the tee, I was in the rough. I was trying to get in the greenside bunker, right or left, and luckily, I got in the right bunker, and I tried to hit it close to the hole and luckily, he made an eagle from there, so it was the right place to chip it from.   
  
  Q.   Did you send in your application for Q. School?   
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: I did not enter Q. School. I was planning to play whatever I could play next year, and I'm not as young as I used to be (laughter), so it's pretty tough to go to Q. School - it's long days. Plus, I was planning to play here in the U.S. and back in Japan a little bit.   
  
  Q.   What about the pace of play? It was really slow out there.   
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: I'm a quick player, so it's kind of hard for me, but it's OK.   
  
  Q.   Talk about the knee injury.   
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: He had a little injury on his knee, and he had the surgery over the summertime, so it's getting better now.   
  
  Q.   How much time did you miss because of the surgery?   
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: He had a little water in his knee, so he just took that water out. They drained it. If they cut it open, it takes two months, but the doctor took the needle, and that was a good doctor.   
  
  Q.   How has your neck and back been? Is that pretty much the same as always, the hot showers in the morning?   
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: Ice it everyday.   
  
  Q.   Clearly, you're Japan's biggest star who's ever played over here on this Tour. What have they been writing about him over there? Have they been riding him pretty hard because he hasn't been playing well, or do they understand?   
 SHIGEKI MARUYAMA: They question him. Have the golf courses gotten longer, or... that type of question.fs   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT