CHRYSLER CLASSIC OF GREENSBORO
October 2, 2005
Shigeki Maruyama
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TODD BUDNICK:  We welcome the runner up, Shigeki Maruyama.  Final round 67, finished at 20 under par, two strokes behind KJ Choi.  KJ birdied the first four holes.  Never gave you much of a chance today.
SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  I could hear KJ making birdies at the beginning, and I couldn't make the putts first few holes.  I had good birdies on the fourth and fifth.  I played very good golf on the last day, but KJ just played very well.

I played with him the first two days.  He's making very good putts.  I thought I was coming up on the last day today here today, but I just couldn't make putts to make him feel like fear or afraid.  If I could have made some more putts, just two more, I just didn't have two more lucky putts today.
TODD BUDNICK:  Shigeki, a bogey free 67.  You have to be happy with the way you played today, outside of falling a little short.
SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  The last hole, chip in birdie, bogey free golf, I'm really satisfied with my golf today.  This brought me a lot of confidence for the rest of the year.
TODD BUDNICK:  Questions.
Q.  On that last hole, you had the chip in.  Did you have fun playing with Jason today?  Was that a nice end to the week?
SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  I played with him at the Deutsche Bank.  Very nice guy.  Good player.  Same age.  Had a good feeling.  He smokes also, so we had good talking on the golf course.  Happy to have a good finish for both of us.
Q.  Talk a little more about what was going through your mind when you see KJ birdie the first four holes.
SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  There was no surprise because when I played with him the first two days, he made five birdies in a row.  I just thought, "Again."  I knew he was playing very good golf this week, good putting.

It was no surprise.  I think he's the most strongest Asian player in the world.  I respect him also.  It was good pressure to put me under after the four holes.  I just thought, "I have to make birdies, that's all."
Q.  Did you become more aggressive to go after birdies after KJ started with four birdies?
SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  I thought he's making lots of birdies.  I had a great shot today, but I just couldn't make a lot of putts   as much as I wanted.

For the par 5s, I couldn't make birdies, only 15.  I should have made birdies at the second and 13th hole.  That's the only holes which I should make birdies.
Q.  Can you talk more about chipping in at the end, what kind of feeling that is to leave a tournament like that.  Chipping in at the end has to feel good.
SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  I was watching the leaderboard.  I was sure I would be the second place.  I just wanted to have a bogey free day.  I wasn't expecting it to go in the hole.  I was just trying to put it right next the hole, inside of Jason's.  It just went in.  I'm really happy to have the bogey free day on the last day.
Q.  Having won this tournament so recently, how much confidence did you play with, having that experience?
SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  That brought me a lot of confidence.  I had been struggling putting since February.  Last two months, I just tried to make some cuts, but I couldn't.  Just not having a good feeling for the putting last two tournaments.

I don't usually change golf clubs.  I tried 10, 15 putters, tried a lot of different ways to hit the balls.  I'm really happy to get this result this week.  I have a lot of confidence now for the last two, three tournaments which I'm going to do.
Q.  Is that since February you used 10, 15 putters, in that short time?
SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  Yes.
TODD BUDNICK:  Going over your card.  Birdie on No. 4.
SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  (In English.)  No. 4, tee shot, 5 iron, about nine feet.

No. 5, tee shot, 3 wood, right side bunker.  Second shot, sand wedge, one foot and a half.

No. 7, tee shot, 3 wood.  Second shot, sand wedge, about four feet.

15, driver fairway, second shot 3 wood, right side rough    bunker, right side rough.  Chip shot, six feet.

18, tee shot, driver.  Second shot 53 degree wedge.  Bunker, chip in.  That's all.
TODD BUDNICK:  How far was the chip in?
SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  (In English.)  10 yard, yeah.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT