NBA PLAYOFFS ROUND ONE: JAZZ vs CLIPPERS
April 30, 2017
Chris Paul
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Jazz - 104, Clippers - 91.
Q. Chris, are you able to evaluate your whole season, 14-2 start, losing Game 7 at home?
CHRIS PAUL: No, that all means nothing, know what I mean?  It came down to today to keep us afloat, keep us alive.  The start don't mean nothing.  It's how you finish.  Once again, know what I mean, we're done.
Q. You've been down this road before, you guys --
CHRIS PAUL: Yeah, too many times.
Q. How do you guys hope to kind of get by this stage where you can't get out of your own way it seems at times?
CHRIS PAUL: Yeah, you just -- I don't know.  You just sort of like fall in love with the process.  At the end of the day, it's a game, and we all love it, know what I mean?  Like you just keep pushing until it happens.  It's not going to change.  Keep working, keep playing, keep training, doing all the different type stuff until you break through.
Q. What do you think the team needs to do in order to get over the hump next year?
CHRIS PAUL: Luckily that's not my job, know what I mean?  That's not my job.  My job is to come in, try to make sure I'm in the best shape possible, try to lead our team and stuff like that.  That's not my job to maneuver who's here and who's there.
Q. What did they do differently tonight, holding you to just 13 points?
CHRIS PAUL: Man, I know I've got to be better.  I've got to be better, especially a Game 7 like this.  I think they did a good job tonight of shrinking the court.  That means the big being up in the ball screen.  It was sort of up tonight, not letting me get to my spots and stuff like that.  But for me, I've got to figure out ways to do that anyway.
Q. When you look at the series as a whole, what do you think were the key factors in terms of Utah's win, besides Blake's injury?
CHRIS PAUL: I don't know.  I think just about every game in the series other than today came down to sort of single possessions.  You know, it was a shot here, a shot there.  Everything didn't matter except for today.  They came out, they made the big plays when they needed to.  Our defense, we started scoring late in the game down the stretch, but we just couldn't get stops.
Q. What do you think the biggest difference was tonight?  You said that all the games were one possession, but tonight was different.  What was the difference?
CHRIS PAUL: Like I said, I think they did a pretty good job of being up in the ball screens.  They were shrinking the court on us, and then late when we did start scoring, we couldn't get stops.  Jamal got it going, and it seemed like every time I hit a three or mid-range, they came down and it was back and forth.  We didn't put together enough stops.
Q. Have you given any consideration to your early termination option?
CHRIS PAUL: No, I haven't.  We just lost probably like 20 minutes ago.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT