NBA PLAYOFFS ROUND ONE: JAZZ vs CLIPPERS
April 25, 2017
Chris Paul
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Jazz - 96, Clippers - 92
Q. Chris, you guys were down 11 early in the fourth and you were able to have a run, to get a run and tie it.  And then they came right back with I think five straight points; what's it like being on the floor when you guys have come all the way back to tie and they have a run again?
CHRIS PAUL: It's part of the game, has its ups and downs, all that different type of stuff.  But wasn't enough to win the game; know what I mean?  We made our runs, we made spurts, but we didn't make stops when we needed to.
Q. Doc was saying in the locker room he could sense you guys have confidence about going to Utah because you guys have won there.  How do you feel about being this close to the season being over?
CHRIS PAUL: I mean, it's no secret, our back's against the wall, down 3-2.  Fortunately we've got a lot of guys in the locker room who had to do this a couple years ago.  We had to go into a tough environment, win a game, come back home and win Game 7.  I mean, it's over now.  We've got to do what we've got to do.
Q. What made it so difficult for you guys to not be able to -- you tied the score up, then they kept on pushing back at you guys.  What made it difficult for you to catch up and pass them?
CHRIS PAUL: We couldn't get stops.  I mean, Joe hit some tough shots.  What's his name, hood hit some tough threes, and they just made real timely shots.  It seems like that's been the case about every game in the series.  Now we've got to get to the drawing board and figure out how to make them miss.  We can't hope they miss, we've got to try to make them miss.
Q. Doc was talking about the offensive rebounds; how frustrating is that to give those particular plays up?
CHRIS PAUL: Yeah, that's tough.  That's what we all talk about, boxing out, stuff like that.  Hayward is an athletic player, went up, got some tough rebounds, they got some nice tip-outs.  They made the winning plays down the stretch, and therefore we lose.
Q. Why was Utah so successful in dictating the pace of the game?
CHRIS PAUL: I don't know.  I think we didn't shoot the ball as well as -- we was 29 for 69.  I looked up at the clock at one point and it was 50 something to 50 something in the third quarter, know what I mean?  I remember when I looked up I was like, man, we must be playing at their pace, but hopefully we could get the win, but we didn't.
Q. Will the Clippers be back here Sunday playing a Game 7?
CHRIS PAUL: What?
Q. Your feeling about -- your level of confidence that you'll be back here again.
CHRIS PAUL: What you think?  I'm on the team.  What you want me to say, no, it's over?  That's what you want to hear?  Yes.  Come on, man.  You've been doing this long enough.  Seriously, right?
Q. If you can expand upon that.
CHRIS PAUL: No, I don't know.  Everybody in here laughing for a reason.  Come on, man.
Q. Doc was talking about the need to play desperate in Game 6.  I'm curious what that actually looks like, and like you said, you've been in this position before.  What does desperate look like in a must-win situation?
CHRIS PAUL: I don't know.  We'll see.  A few of us played in some Game 6s, a few of us have played in Game 7s, but you take it one game at a time.  I'm sure their fans are going to be hyped and all that, but it is what it is.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT