LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 26, 2016
Blake Griffin
DeAndre Jordan
Chris Paul
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Blake and Chris, we haven't talked to you guys since the Playoffs.  Can you tell us where you guys are at physically, what it took to get back to where you're at now and if you have any limitations going forward?
BLAKE GRIFFIN: Physically I'd say I'm 100 percent without any restrictions.  I had a good summer of rehab, working out and getting ready, so ready to go.
CHRIS PAUL: Obviously like Blake, I rehabbed and stuff like that, and I'm good to go.
Q. You guys have been together now for five years --
CHRIS PAUL: Six.
Q. Six years, my bad.  What do you guys think it's going to take for this team to win an NBA championship and how hard do you think that is to do?
DeANDRE JORDAN: I think we have the pieces here.  We talk about it every year.  We have the depth.  We did a really good job in free agency getting guys who were experienced, guys who know how to play the game of basketball and guys who play in different positions.  But it's going to be tough.  It's going to be a journey, but that's what it's going to take to win a championship.  It's going to be hard.  It's going to take all of us, so we're ready.
BLAKE GRIFFIN: I think it's very difficult.  It's not an easy thing.  One team a year gets to walk away and have the result that they really wanted.
For us, I think like DeAndre said, it's coming together, and it starts tomorrow for us really.  It already had started.  Everybody put in the work this summer that was for the benefit of the team, and everything we do from here on out, we have the talent, we have the leadership, we have the intangibles, we have the coaches.  Just got to put it together now.
CHRIS PAUL: Yeah, along with what they said.  We've been together long enough through the ups and downs and stuff like that.  For us it's just about putting it all together, staying healthy, enjoying the process.
Q. Now that the season is about to start, what excites you the most about this upcoming season, maybe the new players that may have been added or what is it coming back here?
CHRIS PAUL: For me I think it's the unexpected.  We added some guys this summer, like you said, and then also the comfort level I think that we have with each other now.  Like we said, we're one of the few times that are bringing back the core group that we have, and it's another opportunity.  We always talk about you can dwell on the disappointments, this, that, but for us it's another opportunity to get to where we're all trying to get to.
Q. This being Paul Pierce's last season, is there any goals that you guys have set as a group while he's still here that you guys want to see where he goes?
BLAKE GRIFFIN: Well, he just announced that this morning, so we haven't had a lot of time to get together.
CHRIS PAUL: The goal doesn't change in all honesty.  It doesn't change.  It's the same goal.  Obviously we'd love for Paul to go out on top.  That's the ultimate goal.  It doesn't change anything for us.
Q. Based upon what happened last year in the Playoffs and didn't happen the way you wanted, how much will that fuel your fire in the off-season to kind of get ready to go this season?
BLAKE GRIFFIN: I think every year you have to -- after you lose in the Playoffs, it adds fuel to the fire.  I think the best thing that we've done is try to learn from our mistakes of the past.  This going into our sixth year together, I think we know each other really well, and that's the thing I'm excited about is this core group of players have been together for a long, long time and we've added the pieces we really need.  That's what I'm looking forward to, and everything else has to fall into place as the season advances and we have to take the right steps.
Q. For any of you guys, Chris mentioned that you guys are fortunate to have the same core and have another opportunity to play for a championship.  Is there any frustration with that, coming back and having to answer the same questions about where you guys are?
DeANDRE JORDAN: I don't think so.  I think that there's 29 other teams who talk about this same thing because there's only one winner.  But our thing is we know what our goal is.  We want to be the winners.  We don't want to get past a single round.  We have an ultimate goal, and that's to be NBA champions, and that's the reason that we're here today.  That's the reason we work as hard as we do in the summertime, to be the best team in the NBA and to be NBA champions, period.
Q. Doc said that you guys have discussed what to do during the anthem, all the social issues going on right now.  Chris, obviously we heard your speech at the ESPYs.  What does that stand with you guys as a group and what do you think you'll do going forward?
BLAKE GRIFFIN: I think that's something that we'll talk about as a team and make a decision.  Whatever we do, I think we all agreed we're going to do it together.  It's not going to be one or two guys or an individual thing.  I think we'll make a statement as a team because that's kind of always the best way to make a statement.
Q. Chris, can we get your thoughts on that?
CHRIS PAUL: Exactly what Blake said.  We're a team here, and the biggest thing that we can do is communicate with one another, and whatever we do, it'll be a team thing, and that's what we'll do.
Q. DeAndre, talk about your experiences in Rio and winning a championship, a gold medal; how can that help you individually, and with maturity, as well, how can that help the team out?
DeANDRE JORDAN: I thought it was great.  I had a really good time just being able to play with 11 other great basketball players and ultimately go through that journey, and to come out on top and win something for your country was awesome.  Just to be able to learn from different people, not only players but coaches before getting ready for the season.  But I think just the leadership that USA Basketball shows and helps you learn, but it was awesome.  That was a great experience, now I'm focused on winning something here with my teammates.
I think anybody who's ever done that in the summertime, whether it's the world games or the Olympic Games, I feel like they've had a really great season.  I want to continue just to keep doing what I'm doing.  I'm really excited to have a healthy team.  With these guys back, it's going to be great.
Q. Blake, why was it so important for you to (indiscernible) last week?
BLAKE GRIFFIN: It was more just a chance to be honest and tell exactly how you feel.  I think that's what's great about having a players (indiscernible) is just to be able to say what you want to say.  That's what I felt in my heart, and that's what I wrote about.  Whether they felt like it was important or not, I feel like it was important.
Q. Chris, in your capacity as president of the Players' Union, have there been conversations about a coordinated statement that you might want to make as a collective Players' Association?
CHRIS PAUL: There have been conversations.  I think the union and the league are fortunate enough to have a great leader in Michele Roberts, and Michele and I have definitely been in conversations.  I think the thing that our league wants to do is make sure each player has the freedom to express themselves however that may be.
Q. I know that the ultimate goal is the same and the group is very similar to what you've had in recent years, but is there a different feel coming into the season, a different sense of urgency maybe considering how things ended and what could be coming up as far as change in the roster after this season?
CHRIS PAUL: I mean, unfortunately for me, I've had 11 summers of going into the summer knowing what it's like not to win a championship.  We just keep pushing, and that's part of being professionals.  We understand the goal.  Everyone in our locker room does, our coaching staff.  It's always a few tweaks that you can make here and there, and I heard Doc say it a lot, there's a little bit of luck.  We're going to do our part, push the guys, and we're going to give it our best shot.
Q. Chris, you look like you've lost weight since last season --
CHRIS PAUL: I don't know what to say.  I appreciate that, brother.  (Laughter.)
Q. This is for Chris.  As a man of God and a family man, how are you just showing that to the world with the position that you're in?  You're always in the public eye.  Is it a hard thing to do?
CHRIS PAUL: Is it a hard thing to do?  No, you have to be who you are.  I'm obviously in the public eye a little bit more than others, but what I will say is that I have amazing teammates and coaches and stuff like that that are involved in their kids' life just as much.  I've been fortunate enough to have them a part of everything that I do.  As fathers here, we try to do the same thing.  We try to be an example for not only other kids but other people's kids, because these two know, if I tell my child something to do, he may not do it, but if one of them tells him, he'll do it.
DraftScripts by ASAP Sports






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT