NBA PLAYOFFS ROUND ONE: TRAIL BLAZERS vs CLIPPERS
April 20, 2016
Chris Paul
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Clippers - 102, Trail Blazers - 81
Q. Chris, there was a time, I think, in the fourth quarter where you kind of looked out on the court and saw what the bench is doing and you looked over at Doc and said, "Are you sure you want to put us in?"  What have you seen from that group here in the first two it games and especially here tonight?
CHRIS PAUL: That was a good observation by you, first and foremost, but they were rolling.  They went on like a 5, 6-0 run, and me and Blake we sort of always do that if we're about to check into the game.  But those guys looked like they're in a good rhythm, and we've all been together long enough to know let them keep rolling, let them keep going until they really need a break.
Q. Doc said, and I am paraphrasing that you guys could have played better defense, but you held them to 34% from the floor.  How would you evaluate the defensive job you guys did out there?
CHRIS PAUL: Could have been better.  That's why we're going to come in tomorrow and watch film.  Damian is tough to defend, which is why we're always giving those different looks to him and stuff like that.  But tonight I could have done a better job and not just given him all the backdoor lay-ups and dunks and things like that.
Q. Chris, compared to last year, where do you think the team is?  You've only played two playoff games, so it's very early, but do you feel there are clear differences from where you were last year at this point?
CHRIS PAUL: Given how last year ended with us, obviously, there is a sense of urgency.  Guys know how valuable each game is, how valuable each possession is, so we'll see.  We did what we were supposed to do and winning two games at home.  Now we know going to Portland, that's a tough place to play, but we've got to come in ready to play.
Q. You touched on this after Game 1 about your confidence in the back-up group.  But to go into every game knowing you can be comfortable if they send five guys from the bench out in the playoffs, what's that do for you going into a game?
CHRIS PAUL: It's great.  It's great.  One thing about our bench what they've been doing in this series is that if we come out of the game up 6, when we go back in the game, we may be up 10 or up 12.  We just need those guys to keep playing with that confidence, and that's why we're a team.  Some nights we're going to have it going and they're going to need us to pick them up and vice versa.
Q. You said how difficult it is to guard Damian, but you've outscored him the first two games of this series.  Is part of your strategy to attack on the offensive end, make him guard you and chase you?
CHRIS PAUL: He didn't guard me tonight, you know what I mean?  So that's not part of the thing to try to attack him.  I just try to take on the offensive end what the defense gives me.  But defensively I think that's where I'm frustrated with how I defended tonight.  For me going into the game Doc said he's going to need me on the defensive end more than anything, so that's what I'm trying to do.
Q. Speaking of your defense, a lot of talk about Luc and what he's done this year.  In your mind what's he meant to this team this year defensively?
CHRIS PAUL: Luc's been amazing.  Luc's a man of few words.  He just plays hard, doesn't need any recognition, and I guarantee you it's anybody on our team who is one guy that they depend on and look to and always going to be where they need to be is Luc.
Q. There was a hope that through all the injuries and stuff you guys had to deal with this year, you guys would find different ways to play and different ways to win.  Have you seen different ways from you guys there in these first two games?
CHRIS PAUL: Yeah, I think so.  We're pretty confident in any lineup that Doc puts on the floor.  Down the stretch when me and Blake came in, he tapped me, and he was like CP I'm at 5 because he got Cole out of the game.
So we're pretty comfortable with all the different things we've been through and whatever lineup we have.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT