NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 13, 2016
Chris Paul
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How's the weekend going for you so far?
CHRIS PAUL: The weekend's been cool.  Busy, busy, a lot of stuff going on.  I don't even remember the last two days really.  We just got done with practice and what time is it?  That's the question.  Seriously, what time is it?  1:00.  I've got to be somewhere else.  I've got an a appearance right from here.
Q. What is the highlight that you look forward to?
CHRIS PAUL: The highlight that I look forward to are events like last night.  The Jordan dinner and Jordan party that we had.  I had a great time.  MJ honored Kobe.  And spending time with the other guys, like me, Russ, Melo, KD, all of us were together and got a chance to talk and catch up a little bit.
Q. Can you imagine how tough it's going to be for Team USA to make cuts for the Olympic team?
CHRIS PAUL: Oh, man, I didn't even think about that?  I'm sure it's hard, but it's a good problem to have.  Other people aren't that fortunate to have a pool of this many great players.
Q. On Team USA:
CHRIS PAUL: Yeah, I think I still remember 2006 [when Team USA won bronze at the World Championship].  We really had tryouts, you know what I mean?  You think about it, you get to the highest point of your professional career, the NBA, and we had tryouts for the USA team.  I remember diving on the floor against Luke Ridnour and stuff like that.  So when you think back like that, that puts it all in perspective.
Q. That first appearance [2006], you guys were young men.  People look at this years from now and see a team with Chris and Dwyane and Carmelo and LeBron actually lost a game.
CHRIS PAUL: Yeah, 2006, a lot of people probably couldn't name that team if you wanted to.  We had a lot of guys -- Kirk Hinrich, Elton Brand, Brad Miller -- there were a lot of guys on that team.  I think us losing in 2006, we got some grief.  Us losing that game is why we haven't lost since.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT