NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 12, 2016
Chris Paul
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. (Indiscernible)?
CHRIS PAUL: Yeah, I felt like what happened with the team, it's all done and we're moving forward.
Q. CP, just to go back to Kobe for a little bit.  You're on your ninth All-Star Game.  He was mentioning he'd like his line to continue way beyond, like Michael has done.  Is that something you'd like to see as well?  And where do you see his line going for the future?
CHRIS PAUL: I'd love for my line to do that, and I know I'm positive Kobe's going to do that.  Kobe's shoe has done amazing, especially in China.  Kobe had the foresight to go over and hit that market early, and he's Kobe, you know what I mean?
Q. He was one of the first signature guys to have like a low cut model.  Did that influence you when you got your signature line and what you wanted your shoe to look like?
CHRIS PAUL: Somewhat.  My ones weren't really low cut.  I played in all low cuts while I was in high school and stuff like that.  I think when we started to design my shoe, we were going for the design aspect and comfort, you know what I mean?
And also, it's funny, like I'm so into the shoe and the design and stuff like that, that at different stages of my career and how I feel, that sort of influenced it.  Like if I'm getting a little bit older, I want my shoe a little lighter because I may not jump as high or be as fast.  So I think about all that.
Q. I know you do a lot of ideas of your own sneakers.  Have you done any of Kobe's?
CHRIS PAUL: No.
Q. What do you make of the players coming off a championship season and now playing (indiscernible)?
CHRIS PAUL: It's pretty amazing to see what they're doing.  The focus that they seem to have to understand every night, night-in and night-out, with the depth that they have to be able to throw all those different bodies and stuff at you like that, it's something to see.
Q. If you're in a playoff series, what do you have to do to beat [the Warriors]?
CHRIS PAUL: You have to beat them.  They're like San Antonio, that they're not going to beat themselves.  That's what we say about San Antonio, if you play against San Antonio, you have to beat them because they're not going to beat themselves.
Q. In Oklahoma City, when you go back there and play and see how big the Thunder have become, do you think about that year and how you guys played?
CHRIS PAUL: I used to, I used to.  I remember the first few times when I came, I was looking and seeing these nice facilities and all the stuff that they had, especially when I was still playing in New Orleans and we didn't have our own practice facilities and stuff like that.  But I've still got a lot of friends and people that I know that still live there in Oklahoma that I'll always remember and be grateful because those were my first years in the NBA.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT