OKLAHOMA CITY THUNDER MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 30, 2019
Chris Paul
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What's it like for you being back? Got to be strange. Tell us your thoughts about joining the Thunder?
CHRIS PAUL: I'm excited. I'm excited. Definitely different being back. I mean, I had opportunity to start my career here in 2005, so blessed and fortunate to be back.
Actually got to see a guy David at the top of the ramp who was still working here when I was a rookie. So just to see him again, seeing a lot of familiar faces, has been really cool.
Q. Chris, coming in, what do you see as your main role with such a young team?
CHRIS PAUL: To hoop, play basketball. I'm excited. It's funny, because a lot people try to tell your truth or your story and say what you want, all this different type stuff.
I'm excited about the opportunity, excited about our team, excited about building.
Q. You said that you feel better physically than you have throughout your career. What changes did you make and what's led you to feel better?
CHRIS PAUL: Few changes here and there. You're just always trying to evolve, trying to learn, get better. That's what I tried to do this summer.
Like I said, I'm excited. The training staff has been amazing since the trade happened, so I'm excited about hooping.
Q. Talked to Shai just a few weeks ago and he said that one of the things he really loves about your game is the understanding of the geometry of floor spacing and the game in general. Just in your limited time with him as a competitor last year, do you see similar potential in him, see the floor like you do?
CHRIS PAUL: Shai can play. I was a fan of his while he was at the Clippers, and actually still probably contrary to popular belief, I have a lot friends that still work within the Clippers organization, especially Jasen Powell, the head trainer. I mean, sure I don't want to get him in trouble, but I talk to him all the time.
J.P. and even Sam used to rave to me about Shai all the time. I used to tell them I used to love watching him hoop. It was crazy. I saw him at summer league after he had been traded and I was telling him, I'm excited for you. I love to watch you play. We talked. Who knew a week later we would be teammates.
So I'm a fan of his and I'm excited about the opportunity to watch him and also to play with him.
Q. How is the focus different from this year as opposed to past years in your career?
CHRIS PAUL: It doesn't change. I mean, I tell you, I am who I am. I'm excited about our team. We're going to go out to win every single night.
I always say unless they start playing where you can put seven or eight guys on the court and not five, then we're in trouble. But I'm excited about what we have.
Q. How do you feel about your tenure in Houston? Obviously had a lot of success, but then on the way out reports of you and James and how you guys kind of clashed on court. How do you feel about the way things ended?
CHRIS PAUL: It's tough. I enjoyed my two years there. It was amazing. I had some unbelievable opportunities, made some great relationships, but it's business. Things happen. I wish them nothing but the best.
And like I said, people always try to tell your story or tell your truth. I have to be who I am and continue to do that. I think everything else will take care of itself.
Q. You're 34.
CHRIS PAUL: Am I?
Q. You're 34. I'm 58, so you're fine. How tough is it to keep playing at the level you're playing? You don't look like your game has fallen much, if any. How long will you be able to do this?
CHRIS PAUL: It's competition. I think that's the thing that fuels me is competition and always trying to get better, always trying to pay attention, seeing how I can improve. I got an unbelievable team around me, people who try to help me day in and day out, but it's the competition of it.
Having an opportunity to have a number of really good friends who did it for a long time, too. I got a chance to see D Wade, Melo, and you see Bron at 17, how he was. So having that, I had veterans I played with like Chauncey Billups. Played with Grant Hill his last year.
So always just trying to figure out ways. Eat a lot different now than I did when I used to ride out to Southern Nazarene for practice every day, but it's just all about learning and evolving.
Q. You talked about happy to be back. What do you remember about your first day here in Oklahoma City? We all had the famous Charles Barkley do you have cows in your backyard thing, but what do you remember about your first journey here in Oklahoma City?
CHRIS PAUL: Man, it was a lot. You got to remember my first time leaving Winston-Salem, North Carolina was coming here to Oklahoma, and the fans were unreal, unbelievable.
Me and my brother had a house out Edmond then. Used to eat Charlestons every day pre-game. But it's amazing to see how much the city has changed. Coming here to play on opposing teams, you know, it's certain stuff you remember. Used to come out to the same song.
But to see the community and the people, that's what I always said. The people here, the fans here, make this city what it is. It's crazy. Our life comes full circle. Now I have two kids. To bring them out here, they came out here this weekend to see me, them and my wife, it's cool to give them perspective, because it changes.
Q. Like you said, you have been here before but haven't been here since Sam Presti has been the GM. What's the communication between you and him been like and your impressions of him thus far?
CHRIS PAUL: Man, it's been great. Sam has been amazing. Him, everybody within the organization just asking if my family needs anything. They have helped out tremendously, so I am extremely grateful for that. The dialog has been really good.
Q. Kind of pigging-backing off the question before, coming back, have you had a chance to get around the city? How have you seen it change since you were here the first time? And what memories maybe come back to you from when you were here the first time?
CHRIS PAUL: I haven't got around the city quite yet. Went to an escape room with my kids yesterday and I went to go see Abominable or something like that at the movie theatre. It's a lot different. When I was here it was just me and my brother, you know, and now it'll just be me here with my family coming to visit as much as possible.
I want rookie of the year here. It was funny, we were we were shooting today at the gym and somebody asked me something about Oklahoma. Who was it, Dennis? Dennis didn't even know I lived here for my first two years. I don't know if that's dating me or what's happening, but to see the familiar faces is really cool, and I'm excited for like my parents to come to a game. This was home for two years.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT