NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 13, 2015
Chris Paul
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Chris, talk about playing in the All-Star Game.  CHRIS PAUL: Excited to be here with the All-Stars.   When you get together with the best players (Inaudible) .  It's good to have a couple of days.   Q.  What is the message or the mindset of your team?  CHRIS PAUL: Get a little break from each other and come back ready for the second half.   Q.  How do you like being on the front end of the break?  CHRIS PAUL: Obviously happy.  Everybody just step up and try to do a little bit more.   Q.  Are roles going to change?  CHRIS PAUL: Just give everybody a little bit more confidence, everybody to have a little bit more confidence in themselves and step up.   Q.  Usually the MVPs in big games goes to guys who score a ton of points (inaudible).  CHRIS PAUL: It's a lot of dunks.  A lot of steals.  Not too many defensive plays.  Usually you need to win the game.  I don't know, I'll try to have as much fun as I can.   Q.  Do you have a favorite for the three-point contest?  CHRIS PAUL: J.J. Redick.   Q.  How about the Dunk Contest?  CHRIS PAUL: I don't even know who is in it.  Oh, Vic is in it.  I'll take Victor.   Q.  Is there any one or two reasons you can pinpoint as to why the Clippers defense has not been as good this season as last season?  CHRIS PAUL: I don't know.  I don't know the answer to that.  We just got to get better.   Q.  You guys are always busy with sponsors and stuff.  Is there more you guys have to deal with in the big city here?  CHRIS PAUL: Try not to.  I bring my family with me, try to spend as much time with them as possible.   Q.  How do you feel about your popularity in Japan?  It's very popular -- your sneaker is very popular.  CHRIS PAUL: My sneaker?   Q.  It's very popular in Japan.  CHRIS PAUL: It's humbling.  To know that it can span that far.  I'm honored and privileged.  I hope to come over there soon.   Q.  To go back to that sneaker bit for a thing, you're one of the longest tenured athletes of the Jordan brand.  What does it mean to be such an iconic brand for so long?  CHRIS PAUL: It's a huge honor and privilege.  Michael was the greatest of all time.  To be a part of the brand is pretty special.   Q.  You two guys have played competitively.  You have a funny NBA story to tell us?  CHRIS PAUL: It's crazy to actually talk to MJ personally about stuff like that.  Try to get his opinion on my shoes and his shoes.  I think he knows how much I love sneakers and stuff like that.  So I'm always talking to him.  He's an unbelievable mentor.  Kind of crazy being from North Carolina and being able to call M.J. a friend.   Q.  Out of you, Melo and Blake, who has the best Jordan collection?  CHRIS PAUL: Definitely Melo.  Melo.  He's got a pretty sick collection.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT