NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 14, 2014
Chris Paul
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
CHRIS PAUL:   No, my favorite part of All‑Star Weekend is spending this time with the family.   A lot of times during the season we're going, he's at school and stuff like that, and this is one of those weekends where I just take him everywhere I go.   
   
 Q.   Who was the last person you texted?  
CHRIS PAUL:   My wife.   
   
 Q.   How do you go about maintaining roots in New Orleans, which some people would think that when a franchise player moves on for business reasons it would be awkward to do something like that?   But it doesn't seem to be; it seems natural for you.   
CHRIS PAUL:   For me, because it was different, and I don't know why or how, I don't have the answer for it, but it was different for me when I was here.   And it may have something to do with the timing of when I got drafted during Katrina.   Because it happened within a month and a half, and then I tried to be a part of the rebuilding process and coming here.   
And it's probably like my family and everything, like we really got close to the city really quick.   And it will always be like that.   And I still have a lot of extended family here in New Orleans.   My sister‑in‑law is born and raised here in New Orleans, her family and everything like that, so it will always be like that.  
   
 Q.   The welcome you receive at your events here so far, it's been really good.   You still get really loud ovations.   Is it gratifying?   Do you expect that?  
CHRIS PAUL:   It is very gratifying, because I can say it now, but probably the most nerve‑wracking thing that I did was my first game back here.   Because I had all these emotions going through.   I wanted to win the game.   
I wanted to win the game, but my emotions were crazy, because there's a lot of relationships that I have here.   Like Big Shot, the trainer for the Hornets, we're like family.   We still talk all day every day.   And it's a lot of people here that I miss.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT