NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 18, 2011
Chris Paul
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You still haven't been on national TV, what does it mean to you to get so many million votes?  
 CHRIS PAUL: It's just an honor. Like I said, I've got to be the only guy starting in the game who has not played on national television, and I was doing an interview earlier and I was saying, you know, first of all, when you step on the court, that's not what you're thinking about, if you're on national television or whatever. But guys in the locker room talk about it. You discuss it and different things line that and all in all, you know, it is what it is.   
 But I'm just fortunate to be here and to be a starter, because that's where a lot of people get to know you, you know what I mean. That's where they get to know you from is being on television and different things like that.  
  
  Q. What does it say about your star power?   
 CHRIS PAUL: I don't know about all that. I think it just says a lot about our team and our organization that, you know, we have been doing an outstanding job of at least just keeping our name out there in some shape or form.   
  
  Q. What do you think makes a good All-Star Game?  
 CHRIS PAUL: What makes a good All-Star Game?   
 Just being competitive, you know what I mean. A lot of times, fans want to see the dunks and different things like that. But when it gets to that fourth quarter and it's a close game, that game last year was a good game, down the stretch, guys really had to start making plays like they have to make for their respective teams.  
  
  Q. The past year and a half, two years, people keep talking, and it seems like it's bigger news than ever; what do you think you've learned through this experience?   
 CHRIS PAUL: I have no idea. I really don't think about it. One thing I said about the media availability thing is the best thing about it being the All-Star Game is those questions about Carmelo and those guys, they will be in here with me so any question, they can answer right over there.  
 I think one of the biggest things I learned, you've got to go out and play the game. I think that gets overlooked at times is how well he has dealt with it. You know, like I said, some guys would tank it or maybe fake an injury or just sit out or something like that or sit on the bench and pout. But he loves to play the game and he goes out there and he's playing great.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT