U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 2019
Brandon Wu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  When did you realize that your graduation day, tomorrow, is going to conflict with playing at the U.S. Open?  
BRANDON WU: All throughout the spring we knew Sunday of the U.S. Open was going to be graduation.  So it became more of a realization when I qualified in Ohio; if I make the cut, I'll probably miss graduation.  In previous years Stanford kids playing, it's almost always this Sunday.  So it's always kind of a conflict.   
 Q.  I assume you won't be heartbroken over that.  
BRANDON WU: This is a pretty cool experience, too.  I wish I could graduate with my classmates, but I think they'll understand and be cheering for me.   
 Q.  When do you get your diploma?  
BRANDON WU: They said they'd mail it to me, so hopefully I get it in the mail.   
 Q.  What was today like out there today?  What was the whole experience today like?  
BRANDON WU: Today was a little tougher.  I feel like I've been putting well all week, and today I missed a couple six-, eight-footers to start.  So that led to a few bogeys, missed a few birdie putts.  That was kind of tough.  We missed a few reads, greens were bumpier, hit a few bad putts.   
But overall I stayed patient, stayed confident.  I knew I was hitting it good, so wasn't too worried about that.  But tried to enjoy it.   
 Q.  How do you stay relaxed between rounds?  
BRANDON WU: Just try to get as much sleep as possible.  We've been finishing pretty late the last couple of days.  Try to get back, hang out with my friends and go to bed.   
 Q.  When you graduate you have all these opportunities, what's next for you, are you going to go pro?  
BRANDON WU: I'm planning an amateur schedule this year and hope to make the Walker Cup team at the end of the summer, and we'll see from there.   
 Q.  Do you go home at all to Scarsdale?  
BRANDON WU: I haven't been home since Christmas break, so it will be nice on Monday when I finally get to go home.   
 Q.  Where do you play there?  
BRANDON WU: Scarsdale Golf Club.   
 Q.  Have you heard from them, what's the reaction like up there?  
BRANDON WU: Yeah, they've been super supportive.  They said everyone is excited at the club and cheering for me, so that's good to hear.   
 Q.  What sort of things have you thought of as you were growing up and playing golf, kids think about winning home runs or that sort of thing.  What's been your fantasy as you came up through the ranks playing golf?  
BRANDON WU: Yeah, holding that U.S. Open trophy, for sure, especially in a place like this.  I remember in 2010 I came out here, me and my dad sat on that grandstand No. 7 and watched everyone come through and struggle on that hole a little bit.  So it's honestly just been real fun getting to play and experience that for myself.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT