U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 14, 2019
Brandon Wu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Just talk about your round and 2-under, low amateur at the moment.  Just talk about the day and how it went for you.
BRANDON WU: Yeah, I felt like there was a -- I had a score in mind.  I figured 2-over would probably be the cut.  So that's obviously the first goal.  But I didn't want to think too much about that, I just wanted to focus on how I was going to play.  And the fairways, obviously.  I think that's key for my first two rounds was keeping the ball in the short stuff and then trying to hit as many greens as possible.
I think I hit my first four or five greens to start, and that was definitely good.  Made some putts, and, yeah, just kind of cruised from there.
A little hiccup on 2 and 3 and went double bogey.  But I knew there was some birdie holes coming down the stretch.  So I wasn't too worried.
Q. How important was it to get after that fast start?  4-under after 10 holes is pretty good start.
BRANDON WU: Yeah, I think definitely helped get me some confidence.  I've been hitting it pretty well, so just knowing I stick to my game plan and keep hitting fairways and greens and trying to make some putts.
Q. Your thoughts on the low am and how much you think about that, you're low am after 36 holes, how important is that to you?
BRANDON WU: Yeah, that's definitely a goal coming into the week.  That's something that's very attainable I think.  So, yeah, I'm happy with the position I'm in.  I know it's going to take two more good rounds to end up with that honor.  But I'm confident I can do it.
Q. Are you thinking low am, or are you thinking champion of the U.S. Open?
BRANDON WU: A little bit of both.  I think one step at a time in a sense, but, yeah, when I was out there 4-under through 10, I was like, okay, I'm three shots off the lead.  If I can just continue to make birdies, then I'm right in the mix.
And at the end of the day, it's just a golf tournament.  Obviously it's the U.S. Open, and it's a really big one, but I'm just trying to play golf and play my best.
Q. How much fun has the last couple weeks been for you?  Stanford, making your run at the NCAA championship, qualifying for the Open, now playing in it?
BRANDON WU: Yeah, it's been a busy couple weeks for sure with a lot of golf.  But as I keep telling people, it's all really fun golf and all really good golf.  So I've had a blast.  I mean, this is honestly the dream ending I could have had in my senior year at Stanford.  So this has been a super fun few weeks for me.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT