U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2019
Brandon Wu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I'm sure that's disappointing, but the putts just weren't going in.
BRANDON WU: Yeah, I mean, I actually only made one birdie in two days on No. 2.  I hit a lot of greens, a lot of good iron shots.  Yeah, couldn't make anything.
Q. Austin continue provided a lot of competition you had to play to.
BRANDON WU: Yeah.
Q. When you're not making birdies that's a little frustrating, I'm sure.
BRANDON WU: Yeah, he scrambled really well.  Hat's off to him.  He competed well and hit some good shots down the stretch.
Yeah, it was definitely frustrating because I felt like I was playing really well.  Couldn't really convert any birdies.  It was playing a little bit softer today, a little bit easier, so I think they were definitely out there.
Q. Really good tee shot on 17 to get back in there; make the birdie.  What did you hit from back there?
BRANDON WU: It was 8-iron; 176 pin, but really just a perfect number.  I mean, striking my irons all day, that looked so good.  Stepped up, hit a great 8-iron.
Q. What was the distance of the putt?  Like six feet?  Less?
BRANDON WU: No, no, less.  Three and a half, maybe four.
Q. That was kind of a really odd lie.
BRANDON WU: Yeah.
Q. In the junk on 18 there.
BRANDON WU: Yeah.
Q. Was that like soft sand?
BRANDON WU: Yeah, kind of this yellow sand.  Kind of looked like it got dumped down there.  I hit not a very good drive.  I think the driver slipped a touch in my hand.  Just need to hit a better drive.  I wasn't too concerned about the lie.
Q. What's your takeaway now?  Ending way before you probably wanted to after winning the medal.  Where is your head right now?
BRANDON WU: Yeah, obviously anything can happen in match play.  All 64 guys that made it to match play are incredible players.  It doesn't feel as disappointing as losing No. 116 in basketball.
Yeah, definitely a little bit disappointing.  I thought I had some good game this week.  Yeah, really looking forward to the future because I think I showed that I can play all summer.
Q. Was the fatigue level okay today?
BRANDON WU: No, yeah, today was fine.  I know I was a little bit tired towards the end yesterday, but today I felt great all day.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT