THE 148TH OPEN
July 18, 2019
Brandon Wu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk a little about your start, the front nine.  You were in a nice rhythm.
BRANDON WU: I played well on the front.  I'd say I drove it well today, that was the biggest part.  I hit most of my fairways.  Mostly good off the tee.  From there I think it plays into my strengths, which is my iron game.  And then from there I made a long one on a par-3, 6, and then birdied 7.  It was a good two birdies in a row.
I felt I played good today.
Q. What happened on the back nine?
BRANDON WU: I'd say -- I hit a good drive on 10 that ended up going in the fescue, so bogeyed there.  On 18 I hit another one in the fescue, so made a bogey there.  And then I would say there were two wedge shots left in a poor spot, I couldn't get it up and down, four bogeys right there.
Q. What's this experience compared to Pebble?  Is it different here?  Do you feel more comfortable here because you've done Pebble?
BRANDON WU: I definitely felt pretty comfortable out there all day.  I don't think I was too nervous other than maybe the first tee shot, just getting that one out of there.  But, yeah, I felt pretty comfortable out there, pretty focused on trying to play my best.  Yeah, it was good.
Q. When you are at 2-under, I think walking on the 9th tee, what's your mindset there?  Keep this thing going or were you pleasantly surprised at the start?
BRANDON WU: Yeah, definitely kept it going.  Just keep it going.  I striped a drive on 10.  It ran out of the fairway into the fescue.  I was trying to keep it rolling, and I hit a good one off the tee and came out with bogey.
But, yeah, it felt good.
Q. Was there something specific over the last couple of days that you learned about the golf course that really helped you today get around?
BRANDON WU: Yeah, I think the toughest part of playing over here with the wind is visualizing how much the ball is actually going to move.  So I thought it took me one or two days to really be comfortable.  I'm starting 50 yards left on the left-to-right breeze on 7, which is pretty crazy.
But, yeah, you've got to be real comfortable and then trust it and make sure you start on line.
Q. What are your expectations tomorrow?
BRANDON WU: Just try and keep on hitting it in the fairway.  That's the start.  I felt like there were maybe a couple of balls that ran out more or less than we thought.  So just trying to get those dialed in.  You don't want to hit a good shot and have it in a tough shot.  Like 10, exactly.  Maybe 3-wood would be a better club today.  If you hit a good one you want to be in the fairway.
And then just the wedges and the chipping, just sharpening that up a bit.  Two bogeys with wedges was not good.  Just sharpen that up a little.
Q. The bogeys with wedges were where?
BRANDON WU: I want to say 14.  It was straight downwind.  That was kind of a tough hole, I flew it far, to the back, chipped it to maybe 15 feet.  Missed there.
Bad one on 15 from maybe 110 yards, down the hill.
Q. On 18, the tee shot.
BRANDON WU: Yeah, I hit it right in the fescue, which is pretty bad.  I barely got it out of there.  I hit it on the green and two-putted.
Q. A lot of danger that lurks everywhere around here.  Look at what Rory did on 1.  He got an 8 on 1.
BRANDON WU: I think I saw an interview with Stenson that said all he saw were the white stakes right and left.  You can't feel the breeze, too, with some of the stands.  That's another tricky thing on 1, especially.  It's hard right-to-left and you can't feel it because you're protected by the stands.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT