BIG EAST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 11, 2011
Mike Brey
Tim Henderson
Scott Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Louisville  – 83
  Notre Dame  – 77 (OT) 
  
 COACH BREY: Really disappointed. We wanted to try and get Saturday night here. We've never been to Saturday night. Take our hat off to Louisville, they played well especially in the second half, get the pressure on us, second shots hurt us. Tried some man, tried some zone, and we probably couldn't get into a very good offensive rhythm, their defense was very good.   
 Having said that we had some great looks down the stretch. We didn't make 'em and they got us. But we invested a lot here so it's kind of a crushing below. I'm glad we have a couple of days to get our legs under us.   
  
  Q. Scott, what do you think, first half you guys were rolling like you've been rolling in the quarters, second half went out from under you, what happened?   
 SCOTT MARTIN: I think you have to credit them that they went to the offensive glass and that's where they kinda hurt us in the second half. They got some put-backs and tip-ins and that hurt us down the stretch.   
  
  Q. Once Siva fouled out you had to feel that their penetration wasn't going to be as great as it had been?  
 COACH BREY: You think you're in good position. Preston Knowles did a great job taking over. You get caught helping out on too many shooters, you get caught -- I would rather twos go in, but their second shots, 23 offensive rebounds. You're not going to overcome that. You're just not going to. That hurt us.   
 We had the last shot to win the game, we defended great and had a chance to win a game in regulation and missed a tough one.   
  
  Q. Mike, Ben is as good a shooter as there is in this league he missed two free-throws with 4 minutes to go and one shot in overtime, physically is he okay?   
 COACH BREY: Physically he's okay. I think it's a perfect example of a guy who almost wanted it too much tonight. He has wanted it so much for his group. That's why we got to the position we got the in the regular season. I just think he wants it so much I just want to get him mean back and calm him down a little bit before we play in the next one.   
 I think everybody is probably a little fatigued right now, these guys have played a lot of minutes and luckily get a chance to recover but I think it was an emotional investment by him wanting it so bad for your group that you can tie yourselves up in knots sometimes and he did that at times when he was younger in his career. He hasn't done that -- he did it in Orlando a little bit. And I took him out of the game in the first half because he was just a little frazzled but he's in the reason we're in the position, he's driven us and we got to get him rest and get him going again.   
  
  Q. Scott, you scored a career high tonight, was this you stepping up at the end of the season or did you have an idea the team might need your 21 more than usually?   
 SCOTT MARTIN: I don't think it was anything unusual. I got some jumpers in the beginning of the game, knocked it down and I got some balls tipped to me. I don't think it was a different mind-set or anything. It was an opportunity scoring and I'm happy I knock some down but didn't hit enough.   
  
  Q. Mike, you mentioned that you thought Ben wanted it too much tonight. Is there a possibility that he got this out of his system before the next one?   
 COACH BREY: I think it's a great learning experience. There is no question about it as we get into the next one. What an atmosphere in there tonight.   
 You talk about poise and everything but it's hard to talk about that when those guys are out there playing in it.   
 When we've stalled offensively in the past like we did at times he's jump-started us, so you got to live with him jump-starting us, it wasn't productive tonight.   
  
  Q. Tim, you guys talked about investing into Saturday night. What is the feeling now? How do you move forward?   
 TIM HENDERSON: Obviously we are disappointed that we weren't able to move on, it's something that we worked hard at all week and pushed for. Like Coach said he'll use it as a learning experience and we'll go on and hopefully we have bigger and better things ahead.  
  
  Q. Mike you talked about wanting Scott to play confident moving forward, do you think he is peaking now?   
 COACH BREY: Number 1, he feels physically great the last month and I thought tonight a look in his eye was yet another step up and it comes at a great time as we head forward into the next one on that stage. This has been building for about a month and I think it started with feeling great physically.  
  
  Q. Did you get away from what you wanted to do offensively?   
 COACH BREY: Their zone bothered us at times. They took us out of a flow a little bit. You know, Tyrone Nash not being in the game we couldn't -- we got low post touches and with him in foul trouble we lost that continuity, and I would have to give Louisville credit for messing our rhythm up.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT