UNIVERSITY OF NEVADA LAS VEGAS FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 12, 2019
Javin White
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








UNLV - 34, Vanderbilt - 10
Q. What does this win mean for the team?
JAVIN WHITE: Momentum. It shows that we can actually come to play, and I feel as a defense we gave up 10 points that we shouldn't have gave up even 10 points, but that's a great way to have a game is 10 points with an SEC team. I feel like we did a great job of executing Coach Skip's schemes, and these are the results we got.
Q. They forced three turnovers, you held them to 0 of 4 on 4th down attempts. What can you guys take away from this? What do you think was working for you and what can keep working for you?
JAVIN WHITE: Coach Sanchez had told us a few weeks ago just to play free and just let it loose. I feel like today we just let it loose. Like we had no worries, just go play football, and that's the best thing about -- at the end of the day it's just football. This is the game that we love, that we play, and you've just got go do that.
Q. You guys seemed really relaxed on the sidelines during the game. You all seemed really -- you felt like you had this game obviously in hand.
JAVIN WHITE: It just starts off with pregame, just how relaxed you are. If you're tense and stuff and if a bad play happens, that hurts your whole momentum and that hurts your mind. You know, and I think the biggest thing, like Coach Sanchez was saying, and Coach Skip, it's just let it free. If a bad play happens, it happens. Make another play, and you can erase that out of your mind. I think right now we didn't do a bad job of just not worrying about making a bad play. We were tyke to make a good play, which that was the best thing that we did.
Q. After giving up a touchdown the first drive, (inaudible) the whole game. Did that reset you guys after that happened?
JAVIN WHITE: Of course. You know, and we felt like we gave up a big, like, long momentum play, and you know, that's the result of it, and I feel like if we take away the momentum, we get good scores and we have our offense getting the momentum that they need and the defense is just -- I was telling everybody, just stop the bleeding. We have to stop the bleeding; regardless of how bad the bleeding is, we stop it. I feel like we did a great job of just stopping the bleeding, which there wasn't any bleeding in a while.
Q. What are you thinking when you're on the sideline and you see the offense grinding out these long drives, seven-, eight-, nine-play drives? How does that fuel the defense?
JAVIN WHITE: Man, great. I love seeing the offense out there. As a defensive player, I love when I'm on the field, but I honestly like to see the offense because that's what their job is; they're offensive players, and scoring is their job. Kenyon did a great job of controlling the clock and doing whatever he does, and I tell him all the time, you're a great football player, so just go out and play football because that's what it is.
Q. First win over an SEC team on the road. Coach says you'll enjoy this on the way back. It's going to be a nice little --
JAVIN WHITE: Yeah, it's a real good treat right now. We're going to take this for momentum, and we're going to take all of it and absorb it, and then tomorrow, it's the next day rolling, Fresno State on Friday.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT