LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY HERSHEY
April 13, 2016
Steph Kono
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How was it out there for you today?  
STEPH KONO: It was pretty windy.  I hit a lot of good shots.  I just tried to really have a good number on every hole and stick to that number and just put a good swing on it and see where it went.   
Luckily a few putts rolled in.  It was tough, but it was a good day.   
 Q.  How do you try to remain steady out there especially when the wind starts blowing like they did today?  
STEPH KONO: I don't think I've ever played Ko Olina without wind, so I was prepared for that.  But like I said, I think with my caddie I just really tried to pick a good number and be happy with middle of the green.   
As long as I put a good swing on it I was happy.   
 Q.  Seemed like for a while you were pretty consistent.  Was there something helping out there today?  
STEPH KONO: I was hitting the ball really well.  My approach shots were all pretty solid.  Like I said, the biggest problems I had maybe were with putt selection, but that's normal for anyone out here in this wind.   
So I gave myself some good looks and I hit a lot of good putts.   
 Q.  What's the plan for tomorrow?  
STEPH KONO: What's the plan for tomorrow?  Same thing:  just hit the fairway, hit the green, and see if the ball goes in the hole.  That's all I can really ask for in tough conditions like this.   
 Q.  Just a matter of grinding through?  
STEPH KONO: Yeah, just grinding you through.  I started off a little bit rocky and I had to make some good par putts, but luckily they went in.  Then I kind of steadied myself.  Yeah.   
 Q.  Mean a lot to you to put together a round like this to kind of stay in it?  
STEPH KONO: Yeah.  It's nice to get off to a good start.  Especially in the afternoon it's nice to come away with a score like even par.   
We'll see if the wind blows again tomorrow.  Take it shot by shot.   
 Q.  You always expect wind here, but was today even crazier by Ko Olina standards?  
STEPH KONO: It was a little crazy starting out, but I think at the beginning of the week Michelle might have said there was a wind advisory, so I knew it was going to be really windy.   
I mean, I have seen it really windy out here, so, yeah.   
 Q.  What was your schedule like coming into this tournament?  
STEPH KONO: Coming into this tournament I played in the Ocala tournament and I played in Australia.  I think I had about a month break in between, so I just worked really hard on my game.  Certain things that I need to do work on after Australia.   
I just played in a mini tour event a couple weeks ago to prep, and I came a few days early just to be home.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT