SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 28, 2010
Chien-Soon Lu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   A Matter of Preparation for Lu: It should not necessarily be surprising that Chien Soon Lu of Taiwan is at 4-under par and in contention midway through the second round of the 71st Senior PGA Championship.  
 Lu, who has won a combined 32 times on the Asian Tour and the Taiwan Tour, played 90 holes at Colorado Golf Club in advance of his first appearance in the Senior PGA Championship.  
 And that was before official practice rounds began.  
 "Mr. Lu called us right after we opened in April to arrange a visit," said Graham Cliff, PGA head professional at Colorado Golf Club. "He flew in and played 18 holes on arrival and then 36 holes on each of the following two days. He loves golf and really embraced Colorado Golf Club."  
 The preparation has paid off thus far, as Lu fired his second consecutive 70 today, highlighted by successive birdies on holes 13, 14 and 15.  
 Ranked third in Greens in Regulation on the Champions Tour heading into this week, Lu has maintained that high level of proficiency here at Colorado Golf Club. He reached 14 of 18 greens in regulation in each of the first two rounds.  
 Lu also has hit 19 of 28 fairways in regulation.  
 "The only way to play this course is to put the driver in the fairway. Otherwise, you're in big trouble," Lu, 50, said through an interpreter after his round today.  
 The advice that Cliff offered him has "definitely been a big help," said Lu. "I have never before played golf at high elevation."  
 Lu was sidelined with back problems for nearly eight years, from 2001 to 2008, before returning to competition last year. He has four top-10 finishes on the Champions Tour this year and heads to the weekend of his first Senior PGA Championship in control of his game.  
 "The thing that struck me most about his game when I played with him was his ball-striking. He's just a solid, solid player," Cliff said. "The little things he learned on this course have helped put him on the leaderboard, in my opinion."  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT