MLB ALL-STAR GAME
July 10, 2007
Willie Mays
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  What did that whole thing mean to you?  I know you looked forward to it and you considered it on an honor? 
 WILLIE MAYS:  First of all, I don't think I can understand it until I can see it on film.  People have been saying right away that it looks good on television.  I couldn't see it but I think it's a great honor because of so many great All-Stars in our game and I think the Giants really went all out. 

 Q.  When you came through centerfield like that, did it bring back any of these All-Star memories and some of your playing days? 
 WILLIE MAYS:  Yeah, I didn't know it was that big, because when I was walking up was saying to myself, how far I have to go to second base because before I run right on that path.  But then when I walk so far and he got to the back it, was like, "Hey, I can throw it there, get back."  That makes it fun.  Loosen up the guys a little bit which is okay.  But they are all young kids out there. 

 Q.  Had you ever walked -- when is the last time you walked through that outfield or have you ever? 
 WILLIE MAYS:  Oh, my God, I haven't been out there in at least 15, 20 years. 

 Q.  So not at this ballpark certainly, you haven't walked out there? 
 WILLIE MAYS:  No.  I did in New York when I was with the Mets for a while.  I used to take batting practice with them, and then when we came back out here, I had a problem with my eye and I never did go out in the outfield and help the guys after.  I could still do that, but I just never have been out there. 

 Q.  So you know why it's considered a pitcher-friendly park, all that space to cover out there, you said it was larger than you imagined. 
 WILLIE MAYS:  No, it's not as large as Candlestick Park because the wind blew in.  I think that's the difference.  I think I would love to hit in this ballpark because the ball goes out pretty good. 

 Q.  You would love to hit in this ballpark? 
 WILLIE MAYS:  Correct. 

 Q.  Was the last time you walked into centerfield, did you walk in from centerfield the last game at Candlestick?  Do you remember when you threw out the last pitch? 
 WILLIE MAYS:  Yeah, but that was a long time ago. 

 Q.  '99. 
 WILLIE MAYS:  I don't think it was that far.  Doesn't seem like that far.  Plus, I was younger then.  Plus, I had my eyes; I could see then.  It didn't seem that far.  This time it seems, you know, a long ways because I'm walking, but Barry picked me up as I go along. 

 Q.  And everybody kind of followed you in. 
 WILLIE MAYS:  Yeah, they followed right in.  
 Q.  Was that special to have them escort you in like that? 
 WILLIE MAYS:  I think so.  I think Barry wanted to be there; and Jeter, he wanted to be there.  The guy that was left out but thought should have been there was Griffey.  But I gave him my jacket, my coat to put in his house.  He's building a house.  We were fine.  It was okay. 

 Q.  How did your arm feel when you made your throw? 
 WILLIE MAYS:  It wasn't too bad.  I thought it was going to hurt but it didn't.  I was having fun, so I didn't have time for pain. 

 Q.  A little adrenaline rush? 
 WILLIE MAYS:  Yeah, that's what I said.  I didn't have time for pain.  Probably going to hurt tomorrow, I don't know.  Wait and see. 

 Q.  Well, you told them to keep moving back. 
 WILLIE MAYS:  Yeah, yeah, that's why I was saying, heck, man, give me a chance, get back.  
 Q.  And how about driving around in the Cadillac there and throwing some balls and seeing this crowd that adores you and having the All-Star Game here again in San Francisco, what kind of emotions hit you at that point? 
 WILLIE MAYS:  Well, the emotion went away by the time I got from the guys to the car, but it's still there because the guys were cheering.  My biggest thing was trying to get them into the stands to make sure somebody would get the ball.  It wasn't really an emotional time then; it was after, because I had already had it going in, you know, into the base. 

 Q.  Did you see any balls that got to the kids you wanted? 
 WILLIE MAYS:  I saw a couple of guys with gloves on, I don't know if it was big guys, little guys, I don't know. 

 Q.  So really, you'll kind of see this on film and then it will hit you a little bit more what this night meant. 
 WILLIE MAYS:  Once I get the film, when I do, I get the film and I run through, cut the light off, and I review it twice, because the first time I see it I'm going to look right through it.  And then I'm going to go over and I'll see it. 

 Q.  Could this be any more kind of picture-perfect of a night with Barry starting in this game, you being honored; San Francisco getting to show off this beautiful new ballpark, relatively new ballpark.  Could it have got any better really? 
 WILLIE MAYS:  I don't think it's about Barry.  I think it's about the City of San Francisco.  I think when you have an All-Star Game, it's not about the player, whoever it may be.  It's the city itself. 
 I'm glad that someone was picked to be representative of the Giants to make sure that we had somebody in the game.  It's not about a particular player.  I think it's very appropriate that we could say to Barry that you were the only one.  We only have one, so that's very unique.  When I played, you had to pick one from each team.  Somebody had to come from each team and that way nobody got mad.  But now I don't think that's the way it is now -- 

 Q.  There are a lot more players on the roster -- 
 WILLIE MAYS:  Oh, they added on now? 

 Q.  There are 32 on the roster. 
 WILLIE MAYS:  So you might not get quite as much action out there anymore. 
 Well, see when I played, we wanted to play nine innings, so everybody couldn't play.  So I played nine; Hank played nine.  So to me, I think we're out there to win, not for popularity. 

 Q.  I know you said it's not about individuals, but it's a lot more special for the city and the fans, certainly, to get to see you be honored and to get to see Barry in maybe his last All-Star Game playing this game. 
 WILLIE MAYS:  It may not be. 
 Q.  Right.  It may not be. 
 WILLIE MAYS:  You can't assume -- 

 Q.  He said it very well could be his last game. 
 WILLIE MAYS:  That's him talking.  That's him talking.  But say he plays next year and he has another good year first half; he might get in again. 
 I don't know.  I don't assume anything. 

 Q.  But maybe among his final All-Star games being in his final ballpark and you, his godfather, being honored, can you sense what that might mean to the fans of this team to get to see -- 
 WILLIE MAYS:  See, what you're looking for, that's not the way I think.  See, I think different from what you think and I'm saying again, this is about San Francisco.  This is not about godfather or a player.  It's not about that.  You know, All-Star Game would have went on regardless of what happened to he and I. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT