SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
May 31, 2015
Christel Boeljon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Gotta be a little disappointed, but still feel pretty good about the week?  
CHRISTEL BOELJON:   Yeah.   I mean it's always, you know, you hope to make the last putt.   But I'm pleased with my week.   
You know, slowly starting to play better, and this week it finally sort of clicked and three rounds under par in these conditions and these winds I'm happy.   It's a good week for me.  
   
 Q.   What was different this week?   What was clicking different in your game?  
CHRISTEL BOELJON:   I felt in control of my long game, and I made some good putts.   I felt comfortable.  
You know, the last couple of weeks, you know, I've been able to attack a few more pins, and I could build on it.   So this week I just continued on that, and yeah, things are just starting to fall together.  
   
 Q.   How nervous were you out there with the lead, top of the leaderboard on the Back 9?  
CHRISTEL BOELJON:   I told my caddy like with four holes to go when we were on 15, I'm like, I'm starting to feel a little nervous right now.   I think for me it's a big step.  
   
 Q.   What did your caddy tell you when you said you were nervous on 15?  
CHRISTEL BOELJON:   (Indiscernible).   We'll just take it step by step, shot by shot.  
   
 Q.   What can you take from this?   Usually it seems like good golf kind of leads to more good golf.   
CHRISTEL BOELJON:   Yeah, hopefully.   I in the U.S. Open qualifier on Tuesday.   So I'm heading to there, and hopefully I can get that done.   
But yeah, keep trying to build on what I'm doing and get better.  
   
 Q.   Where is the U.S. Open qualifier?  
CHRISTEL BOELJON:   I'm playing the one in the wood lands, Texas.  
   
 Q.   I think you're projected to jump about 100 spots in the Rolex Rankings.   How important is that to you to be able to get to the Olympics?  
CHRISTEL BOELJON:   It's really important because our country is at‑‑ you know, we have to be in the top 100 in the world so you can go.   
Yeah, hopefully I can show them with this that, you know, even if you're outside the top 100, you can still win and you can still get a medal.   So I've gotten close now, but I just hope to continue and go from there, just really go week by week and see where that brings me.  
   
 Q.   What's the country's strategy behind that?  
CHRISTEL BOELJON:   They feel that if you're in the top 100, you have a chance of winning a medal.   If you're outside of that, they feel like you don't have a chance.   So I think this week I kind of proved them a little bit wrong, so hopefully they can do something about it.   But for now I'm still focused on doing my work in my off weeks and trying to play the best I can in the weeks that I'm playing.  
   
 Q.   How bad do you want to be on that team?  
CHRISTEL BOELJON:   Yeah.   Of course.   I haven't won out here.   That would be great.   You know, that's part of my dreams.   But to be able to go, you know, there are only a few athletes that can say they've gone to the Olympics.   So that is definitely on my list.   Yeah, I want to make it, so that's why I'm playing and that's what I'm striving for.  
   
 Q.   I know the finish has gotta be incredibly important, too, for just next year and knowing you have a pretty solid standing on the Money List now after this week.   
CHRISTEL BOELJON:   Yeah, of course.   But I think for me it's just, I should try my best and not let this mean more than it is.   This was a good week of golf, and it was really important for me because I was getting close to playing good golf.   
Yeah, I'm just going to go home.   I'm going to enjoy my finish and then play the qualifier and then take some time off and then be back for the KPMG.   But yeah, just overall, just pleased.  
   
 Q.   Where is home?  
CHRISTEL BOELJON:   Home is Holland.  
   
 Q.   Okay.   So you're going to go all the way back to Holland?  
CHRISTEL BOELJON:   No.   I'm going to go to Houston.  
   
 Q.   Houston?   Okay.   So then you're not playing Manulife next week.   Waiting till k p m g?  
CHRISTEL BOELJON:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   And this is kind of the best time to start playing good golf with three majors coming up in the next seven events?  
CHRISTEL BOELJON:   Yeah.   First things first.   I'd like to qualify for the U.S. Open and go from there.   If not, we have a major coming at the KPMG and I'll try to do my best there.  
   
 Q.   How grueling are those 36 holes in one day?  
CHRISTEL BOELJON:   It's hard.   I've done it once before, and you just have to be patient.   That's kind of like all it is.   Just go out there and play shot by shot, stay patient.  
   
 Q.   Were you as nervous starting today as you thought you might be?  
CHRISTEL BOELJON:   No, not in the beginning.   Just more as I started playing.   But I felt it like probably the last four or five holes.  
   
 Q.   Did you watch the leaderboard at all?  
CHRISTEL BOELJON:   I did not, except for the last hole.  
   
 Q.   So you didn't know where you were at coming into the last hole?  
CHRISTEL BOELJON:   No.   Last hole, I did not.   I knew I was doing good.   You know, when the camera is right in front of you when you're playing, you know you're doing good.   So I knew I was maybe tied for the lead, close to it, but yeah, I didn't want to think about all that.   I just wanted to play my shots.  
   
 Q.   Just stay in the moment kind of thing?  
CHRISTEL BOELJON:   Exactly.   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   Perfect.   Best of luck Tuesday.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT