CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 22, 2013
Christel Boeljon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Nice finish, birdie‑eagle‑birdie?  
CHRISTEL BOELJON:   Yeah, birdie‑eagle‑birdie‑par.   It was good, yeah, happy.   I think this round is the best I could have done.   Of course the hole‑in‑one was super nice.   That helped me out a lot.   But overall I put the ball in play, was lucky a few times, got a good up‑and‑down, but game is pretty solid, so off to a good start, so it's nice.  
   
 Q.   How far was the hole‑in‑one?  
CHRISTEL BOELJON:   I had 116 meters to the pin.  
   
 Q.   It was a 9‑iron?  
CHRISTEL BOELJON:   Yeah, small 9‑iron, yeah.  
   
 Q.   Have you had an ace before?  
CHRISTEL BOELJON:   I have, but not in professional golf.   When I was an amateur, yeah.  
   
 Q.   What was that like when you actually saw it roll into the hole?  
CHRISTEL BOELJON:   Well, I only realized it by the lady that was behind the green that put her hands up, and I was like, I guess it's in, because we couldn't see with the sun.   Everyone was high‑fiving, so we got up to the hole, and we see it's in.   Yeah.   It helps your score out a lot.  
   
 Q.   When you have a stretch like that, birdie‑eagle‑birdie, what goes through your mind as you're kind of going through that score?   
CHRISTEL BOELJON:   It's just nice.   You know, it's nothing other than you hole a few putts, and I'm lucky that I hit that shot into the hole.   But you do it more often, and for me it didn't feel anything different, it's just you try to just do your thing.   Go through your routine again, just try to play shot by shot.   My finishing hole I had a good bounce from the bunker, and yeah, just pleased with my game at the moment.  
   
 Q.   How is the course?   Greens seem a little faster than in the morning?  
CHRISTEL BOELJON:   Well, I think for me they weren't really fast because they got a little bumpy in the afternoon because it's the poa annua that tends to grow a little in the afternoon.   But they were still really fast, and they played really nice.   The course is in great shape.   It's so green, and tees are great, fairways are great, rough is good, it's up high, so yeah, it plays really nice.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT