THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 21, 1996
Wojtek Kowalski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  How busy a town is that? 

WOJTEK KOWALSKI:  Where I was born, yeah, probably like 100,000 people. 


Q.  What do they do, industry or -- 

WOJTEK KOWALSKI:  There is a salt mine there. 


Q.  Salt mine? 

WOJTEK KOWALSKI:  But they close it. 


Q.  That is where we are sending Krickstein.  What is it called? 

WOJTEK KOWALSKI:  It is called Inowroclaw. 

WOJTEK KOWALSKI:  Well, if I exist in the player book, it is supposed to be there. 

WOJTEK KOWALSKI:  Better to be there then not at all. 

WOJTEK KOWALSKI:  Yes.  I played U.S. Open which is couple of years back, coming back to 1988, and I lost first round, unfortunately, and this is my first appearance in a Tour Tournament in USA, Tour event. 


Q.  Since 1988? 

WOJTEK KOWALSKI:  Well, in the States, though, but I tried to play back in Europe, but my ranking was not good enough to participate last year.  I think I played two or three Tour events, but just -- I just won one round, which it was nice to win, but it is -- 


Q.  Who did you lose it, the U.S. Open? 

WOJTEK KOWALSKI:  I lost to Pieter Aldrich from South Africa.  But for me, we were back to 1988.  I come from Poland and the things are going pretty slow up there.  They were going at that time.  I was 20 years old, not too much experience for me.  It was like overdrive.  And he was a good player, but I believe I was not able to play what I had, actually. 


Q.  So you haven't been back to the United States since then? 

WOJTEK KOWALSKI:  No, I have been back to states, played some smaller tournaments, played satellites, played challengers, names, and I have been -- actually, last three years, I have been back twice a year, back to the States, have a lot of friends in Florida, especially, and yeah, that is what I was doing.  It is nice opportunity to practice here and, yeah. 


Q.  Is this your best win? 

WOJTEK KOWALSKI:  No, it is not.  Aaron, right now, I believe he dropped down. 


Q.  Pretty good player, though, nevertheless? 

WOJTEK KOWALSKI:  Of course, makes me feel very good that I beat him.  He was pretty high in the ranking already, but I believe my best win was also back couple of years over Mark Woodforde. 


Q.  Where was that? 

WOJTEK KOWALSKI:  In Kitzbuhel, Austria, first round. 


Q.  What year? 

WOJTEK KOWALSKI:  I don't remember exactly.  I believe it was 88 or 89.  88 was my best year so far, I think my ranking in singles was 109, doubles 125 and then I had injury. I pulled my hamstring and put me to sleep for a lot -- for a long time.  I believe 89 or 90 I just played maybe three months of tennis which isn't very much and ATP didn't have the protecting ranking at that time so I dropped.  I dropped to nothing.  I had to play satellites.  It is very difficult.  It is a jungle out there.  A lot of players; everybody got a racket; everybody plays.  It is not like trying to coming back and there you are, take a spot.  So it took me a long time and I'd like to back to 140, I believe, and I mean, it is better, but it is just kind of very difficult because you are in the challengers, but you are not in Tour events.  It is very difficult to make a schedule or to make a choice what you are going to play. 


Q.  What tournaments have you played this year so far? 

WOJTEK KOWALSKI:  I played few challengers back in Germany where I actually -- I played well, it was Heilbronn, 100,000 plus.  Made quarterfinal.  Then Lippstadt and Wolfsburg both fist rounds.  Last week I played the challengers, Indian Wells in the qualies for Indian Wells, but it was first week outers for me after playing indoors for five, six months, lost both times first round.  Didn't have an easy draw, but, you know, these days, it doesn't matter if you have an easy draw or not if you are not winning, just not winning. 


Q.  This is first time you have been at Lipton? 

WOJTEK KOWALSKI:  Yes, my first appearance. 


Q.  How old are you? 

WOJTEK KOWALSKI:  I was born in '67, October, '67. Which is 28 right now.  I am going to turn 29. 


Q.  Do you feel that you have a lot of tennis ahead of you? 

WOJTEK KOWALSKI:  A lot of people actually ask me about that.  I think it is just a little bit different to the top guys because the top guys were hanging around a long time and they played a lot and I believe it cost a lot of energy and it is not easy at all.  And I didn't have a chance to do that, so, you know, I am having fun.  As long as I can allow myself financially and I am not having injuries, and I am having fun that I will probably keep going, but you never know how long it is going to take.  Besides that, the injuries, past years were kind of always putting me back and it is not easy to decide to go on back on the court to try to make a comeback, which is -- it is just not easy, but as I said, as long as it is making fun, looking forward to do it, I don't see a reason why; shouldn't I? 


Q.  You feel that you have got a reserve sort of whereas the other people used up energy earlier? 

WOJTEK KOWALSKI:  I don't think about that.  Like I said, I am having fun.  I like to work out, and just give another try.  Just -- I think like if you are looking -- if you start to think too much, if the other guys play too much, you go out on the court; you prepared yourself pretty well; might have a chance to win, but it is just a little bit of luck on the court, you need it.  Some days, you are okay, some days you are not.  Today it is nice to be here and after I won a match. I am looking forward for my next one. 


Q.  Have you played in a lot of stadiums like this? 

WOJTEK KOWALSKI:  I played some.  Davis Cup matches. I played last week.  I played in stadium in Indian Wells.  "A lot" I don't think is the right word.  I played a few.  It is nice to be out there. 


Q.  Is this the biggest stadium you ever played, 14,000? 

WOJTEK KOWALSKI:  No, I believe French Open last year I played against Guy Forget, Court A., which takes probably 10,000, it was pretty full.  I don't know how many people are fitting in here, but there weren't that many today. 


Q.  Did that help you in playing there? 

WOJTEK KOWALSKI:  For a player, I believe just like you feel like a player; you are not playing in the backcourt where nobody cares, and it still doesn't make any difference even if you play on the backcourt, you still got to win the match because it is your job.  But of course, it is very nice. I was happy to play on the Center Court on the stadium because just a lot of people trying to come up and see who is playing there and it is very nice experience. 


Q.  Injury timeout today, this was your hamstring? 

WOJTEK KOWALSKI:  I pulled my hamstring a little bit again.  I hope I will be all right.  But we will see. 


Q.  How were the conditions there? 

WOJTEK KOWALSKI:  It is very windy.  First thing, which probably every player is going to complain about, but it is windy for both players and you got to deal with the wind.  I don't think it was that hot.  This morning was kind of chilly, actually, and, you know, it warmed up a little bit.  I feel okay.  It was basically nice to, you know, to play, I mean, I might say something different if I would have lost the match. Just you got a lot of influence on how you did in the match, but I think the conditions were okay; just a little bit windy, but we both have to deal with that. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT