SAUDI INTERNATIONAL POWERED BY SBIA
January 30, 2020
Adri Armaus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Quite a way to finish, four birdies in the last five holes for a 65. How would you assess that?  
ADRI ARMAUS: You know, obviously really pleased in the way I finished, but overall, the whole day was really solid, and you know, kept doing the right things and happy that at the end, it turn out making birdies because they were close, and the last few holes, I played them really, really good. Excited to have this round.   
 Q.  Do you feel it was a continuation from your good play last week in Dubai?  
ADRI ARMAUS: Yeah, definitely. I mean, last week was great to have a great finish, and you know, feeling good about it. It was a bit tough to adapt because we had a lot of wind last week, so I needed to adjust a couple things, but overall I felt I was ready for today again and went out and got it.   
 Q.  What sort of confidence does that breed, finishing as high as you did last week?  
ADRI ARMAUS: It's great. To have a great finish to start the season is just something very encouraging; that I'm looking forward to keep continuing the good play and hopefully we get a good finish, as well, this week and the following weeks.   
 Q.  What's been particularly good about your play in the recent rounds you've played?  
ADRI ARMAUS: Last week definitely from the tee I was brilliant, long and straight, and obviously hitting it quite close. The putting is going well at the same time. So pretty much everything at some point, so yeah, got to keep doing those things.   
 Q.  Talk us through the highlights of those four birdies in the last five.  
ADRI ARMAUS: Well, I guess, yeah, I mean, it was great. On 4, I couldn't go for it in two, and I did a great up-and-down from 50 metres. Made the 4-metre putt.   
On 5, I hit a huge drive to 90 yards and I hit it, I stuffed it next to it.   
Then on 7, I went for it and hit a great approach again. I hit it really close.   
Then on 8, I made like, again, a 15-footer, which was great to see going in.   
And yeah, great solid par to finishing, as well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT