MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 5, 2021
Carlos Ortiz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  Q. Is it more fun being here as a patron or a player?
 CARLOS ORTIZ:   As a player.
 Q. What are some memories you have about when you came to watch your brother play?
 CARLOS ORTIZ:   First memories are like walking to right here and realizing how much slope there is to the golf course.  You can't believe how many holes you can see from one spot, and there's different spots here on this golf course where you can see like four or five holes, and it's just unbelievable the amount of slope this golf course has.
 Q. And now you're inside the ropes out there; what vantage points have you had today?
 CARLOS ORTIZ:   It's a great golf course.  I mean, it's a fun one to play.  Greens are extremely firm, but I'm just -- I'm lucky and happy to be here.
 Q. It's totally different -- I know you weren't here in November, but what are you hearing from guys who were here in November compared to this week?
 CARLOS ORTIZ:   That it's just a touch firmer.  They are really pointing out how firm the greens are.  Sergio and Tommy -- Sergio I think has played here like 20 times, 21 times, and he says he's never seen the greens this firm.  For me it was the first time.  They just look really firm.
 Q. You were here yesterday; how many rounds have you played?
 CARLOS ORTIZ:   That's it, 18 yesterday, nine today.
 Q. Do you feel like you know the course now?
 CARLOS ORTIZ:   Maybe 10 percent of it.  It's one of those golf courses that I don't think -- I think those guys that's been coming here 20 years, they're still getting to know the golf course.  It's one of those that there's so many spots you have to know, and I'm just trying to absorb as much as I can and just worry where I can be.  There's too many places where you should not be, so I'm just trying to worry where I should be putting the ball.
 Q. Who's here, the family?
 CARLOS ORTIZ:   Yeah, the family and a couple friends.
 Q. Your brother?
 CARLOS ORTIZ:   Yeah.
 Q. Is he champing at the bit, he'd rather be out there?
 CARLOS ORTIZ:   Yeah, he's right here.  Yeah, it's a payback.  I came to see him, he's coming to see me.
 Q. Will you play with Abraham tomorrow?
 CARLOS ORTIZ:   I don't know.  I haven't talked to him, but yeah, maybe I'll try to play -- I'm trying to play with guys who have played here a lot of times.  I know he did well in November.  I'm going to try to play with Spieth tomorrow or maybe Sergio again.  They kind of know the place a little bit better than us.
 Q. He was really hoping you were getting in in November.
 CARLOS ORTIZ:   I wanted to get in, too.  It was just one of those.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT