U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 14, 2019
Carlos Ortiz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  The feeling of making history for Mexico and would be the first Mexican in 20 years that makes the cut?  
CARLOS ORTIZ: It feels great.  You know, with it you can represent your country and put the Mexican flag up there on the leaderboard, it's great.  And I feel good with my game and looking forward for the weekend.   
 Q.  And a different feeling of the first time you've been to the U.S. Open to today, I mean, what has changed and what is the confidence that you have?  
CARLOS ORTIZ: Yeah, I mean, you learn a lot from the first time you play a U.S. Open.  It's a completely different conditions to what we normally play.  I definitely feel like I'm a better player than I was then.  Not only golf-wise but mentally I'm much tougher, and I'm looking forward for the weekend.   
 Q.  What has changed in your game between that first time and now?  What's different?  
CARLOS ORTIZ: Honestly, not much.  It's just -- you learn where to miss it and where not to miss it, and that's really important in a U.S. Open.  And I think I've been doing it great this week.  I honestly did not hit it that well at the tee today, but I put myself in a spot I could be on and I save a lot of pars.   
 Q.  Talk about the eagle.  
CARLOS ORTIZ: Oh, that was -- you know, I hadn't find a fairway all day with that, you know, 3-wood or iron, so I was just hoping to hit the fairway.  Once it hit the fairway, I knew it was going to be (indiscernible) hole because every time I play from the fairway, it was a bird or a par, you know.  So just had that great number and then I hit a great 4-iron.   
 Q.  How long was the putt?  
CARLOS ORTIZ: It was a tap-in.  Yeah.  So...   
 Q.  Can you talk about your roller coaster finish a little bit, eagle, bogey, bird, bogey, last four holes?  
CARLOS ORTIZ: Yeah, I mean, the finish, you have to finish strong.  And 7 is playing actually pretty tough today.  The green is really firm.  And I hit a great shot, barely got over, and it was just sitting down, and I didn't -- I guess I didn't judge it correctly.  It came out just a touch short, and you have one of those five-footers down the hill with the poa annua, is sort of really easy to make.   
And then 9 I just missed the fairway.  It's a low hole right now.  And especially with it getting little bit colder.  So I couldn't reach.   
I mean, it was not really a roller coaster, I just -- it's just my day, you know, just the last hole sort of really tough.  If you miss the fairway, it's kind of hard.   
 Q.  Expectations for the weekend?  
CARLOS ORTIZ: I mean, none, really.  I'm just trying to shoot as low as I can and just keep having fun.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT