NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL CHAMPIONSHIP
September 24, 2016
Carlos Ortiz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So far you turned in the round of the day.  I'm wondering your thoughts on a great third round.  You put yourself one back.
CARLOS ORTIZ: I played great.  It's important to hit fairways here, it makes it easier, especially with all the back pins, you can be a little more aggressive and I think that that's what I did much better today, I was in the fairway most of the time.  And then it's firming up, so if you hit the fairway it's going to run out and you have a wedge, so you can be aggressive.
Q. I know you don't know what's going to transpire, but based on how the back nine's playing, do you think the scores are going to slow down and you'll be close to the lead?
CARLOS ORTIZ: I haven't even looked much at the leaderboard.  I think it's a good score.  I really don't care what the other guys do.  My goal is to get double digits, I think that would be a good tournament for me.  And then go out tomorrow and play the best that I can and see what happens.  It doesn't matter what the other guys are going to do.
Q. How important is it for players not to worry about the others and just worry about your game?
CARLOS ORTIZ: Obviously, we're competing against each other, but playing an individual sport, if he hits it close or makes a birdie it's not going to affect my game.  So I'm just trying to do the best I can and as long as I do what I can and there's nothing else I can do.  If they play great, great.  If they play bad, that's okay, it doesn't really affect my game or my strategy.
Q. What do you think, how do you describe the challenge of this course?  It's traditionally one of the toughest tests.
CARLOS ORTIZ: It's playing a lot tougher.  Instead of being every single hole you can almost drive it and it's tight in the rough so finally you can come out here and hit driver pretty much every single hole and then it's probably more fun for me, I like it better.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT