THE BARCLAYS
August 29, 2015
Carlos Ortiz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  A number of players said overnight, anybody who makes the cut still has a chance of winning this tournament.  Carlos, a 62 today, you made the cut by one and you got it to 7-under right now.  Seriously impressive round of golf.  What were you thinking heading out in calm morning conditions in this moving day here at The Barclays?  
CARLOS ORTIZ: As you said, it was calm, the wind this morning.  So I knew it was a few birdies, especially on the back nine.   
You know, if I could play good the first nine, I knew I could get it on the back.  I started great.  I started hitting fairways, so it changes, the golf course, it's easier when you hit fairways actually.  So I started feeling great.  I played great for the first 12 holes and then I struggled a little bit, missed a couple greens.   
 Q.  On 18, another chance to be aggressive?  
CARLOS ORTIZ: For me, it's a driver every day, you know, if the wind let's you.  I knew if I can get it just on the right side of the fairway or even in the left bunker on the green, it's an easy shot because that pin is pretty accessible.  It's in the middle of the green.  I was in a perfect spot right there and I was just trying to give myself an uphill putt and I did.  A little bit of break, pretty straightforward.  It was nice to finish with a birdie and get a 62.   
 Q.  I understand a year ago, you won this exact same week on the Web.com for your third victory of the season.  What is it about end of August then?  
CARLOS ORTIZ: It's a good month for me.  I actually was remembering that the other day.  I saw one of my friends playing on the Web.com Tour and I just remember, I won a year ago exactly.  So it would be nice if I can get in that state of mind again and have a win.  It's been a while; a year, it feels like it's been a while.   
 Q.  Playing so many weeks in a row, were you physically up for that --  
CARLOS ORTIZ: I was getting ahead of myself.  I played seven weeks in a row this year, so you need to maybe cut a little bit your range time and everything.  I'm not thinking that far ahead.  Trying to come out tomorrow and play the best I can and whatever happens, happens.   
 Q.  You're one of the people on front page of the leaderboard who did not play the British, did not play the PGA.  Do you think that might have been a way you guys are maybe a little fresher?  
CARLOS ORTIZ: No, it's the same.  When they were playing those tournaments, I was playing another tournament.  Obviously I would love to start playing those tournaments, too, and maybe not be as fresh as right now.  But I feel great and if I need to play four weeks in a row, I'm only 24, and I feel good with my body.   
 Q.  Are you looking at that projected FedEx number at any point this week?  
CARLOS ORTIZ: Not really.  I cannot do anything.  You start looking at that and you're going to get crazy because you cannot control how the other players do.   
If I play good, I advance for next week, and then I'll see from there.  Obviously if I keep playing great, I'll keep moving up the leaderboard, and then the FedExCup.  So that's my goal.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT