NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 21, 2015
Carlos Ortiz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What was working out there for you?  
CARLOS ORTIZ:   Yeah, it's playing tough out there.   I'm hitting the ball good the whole week, and I started kind of slow.   I mean, I bogeyed 5, I believe.   I hit a bad tee shot and then after that, I relaxed and started hitting much better.   Made a great shot on the par3 and made birdie there.   
Then had a good putt on 9, another birdie there.   Got some momentum.   Parred 10 after a bad chip there, so it's good.   Eagled 11.   Birdied 13 and then had a bogey there on 15.   I had a bad bounce there on the bunker and it was against the lip.   But other than that, it was a clean round and I'm playing good.   
   
 Q.   Talk through your eagle on the 11th.   
CARLOS ORTIZ:   I hit a great drive just in the right‑hand side of the fairway and then I hit a really good 3‑wood to about 15 feet left of the pin and made it.   
   
 Q.   You talked about momentum.   This is a tough place to get momentum because of the way the course plays.   When did you really feel like you started getting things rolling?   
CARLOS ORTIZ:   I mean, after that birdie, actually with that birdie on 6, and then had a really good par save on 7, so I got some momentum there.   Had a great shot on 8.   Didn't make the putt and then birdied 9.   Good save for par on 10 and then eagled 11.   It's a good hole, 12, and I parred that, and birdied 13 obviously.   
So it's working out good.   I'm playing good and hitting it to the middle of the fairway, so that's always good.  
   
 Q.   When you won the three times on the Web.com, how often did you come from off the lead?   
CARLOS ORTIZ:   I believe two times out of the three, I came just off the lead or maybe tied.   The other one, I just hold the lead.   
I feel comfortable where I am.   You always want to have a chance on Sunday, and I believe I'm giving myself a chance on Sunday.   So it's all about playing a good round tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   How long have you worked with Gary, your caddie?  
CARLOS ORTIZ:   Six months.   
   
 Q.   How did you get connected with him?   
CARLOS ORTIZ:   Through my agents.   He caddied with Sergio, so that's how it worked out.   
   
 Q.   Calms you down?   How good is he?   
CARLOS ORTIZ:   He's great.   He's a great help to me.   He's got a lot of experience obviously, and he helps me in the tough moments and keeps me in the present, and tries to advise me where to hit the ball‑‑ on this golf course you need to know where to go.   It's going well and I'm really happy the way he's working with me.  
   
 Q.   A lot of times, people at the golf courses root for you and talk to you.   How much are you feeling that from the guys that work here at Riviera?   
CARLOS ORTIZ:   It's great, when I have that support from the Mexican people and Latin people, it's great, and I'm proud to represent that group of people.   
   
 Q.   How excited will people back home be‑‑  
CARLOS ORTIZ:   They will be pretty excited.   They are always cheering for me no matter what happens and hopefully in the near future I'll get a win.   
   
 Q.   What was your home course, what was Guadalajara Country Club like, just the way it was, and did it prepare you well for‑‑  
CARLOS ORTIZ:   Yeah, it's actually a pretty similar golf course, tree lines, and there's a lot of holes that look kind of the same, same grass, same green, so it's similar.   It's easy for me to shape some shots off the tees, and that's important out here.   
   
 Q.   What part of your game do you want to really see get better?   
CARLOS ORTIZ:   My short game needs to get a little bit better.   Obviously the lies are a little bit tight out here, and you need to get good on your chipping.   But other than that, it's about working on my mental game and improving myself.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT