OHL CLASSIC AT MAYAKOBA
November 16, 2014
Carlos Ortiz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   We'll start with the press conference for Carlos Ortiz.   He has a 3‑ and 11‑under for the tournament.   We'll have his comments and then go to the questions.   
CARLOS ORTIZ:   I'm happy with the score with the final score.   I would have wished a better result, but this was a very good tournament, very happy with my family and all the people who were here.   It's been the best score I've had on the PGA TOUR and I'm happy that it happened in my country.   
THE MODERATOR:   Let's have some questions from the press.   Please raise your hand.   
   
 Q.   This has been a bogey‑free round which means that, taking into account in the second round, some times the holes are more complicated, and this gives you more variation.   
CARLOS ORTIZ:   This was a very good round.   It was a little bit difficult for me at the end, I didn't hit the ball very end and I had very good putts for par and I hit them and I was very happy I had a putt and a chip that allowed me to have a very good score and very good positive results.   And now I'll go to rest and get ready for the following year.   
   
 Q.   On the second day you said that you felt a little bit doubting on the tee.   Did you keep the same feeling for the last two days, because the first day you had 4‑under par, today three and the other two days two.  
CARLOS ORTIZ:   We, this is a course that demands where the tee demands a lot.   So I feel very happy on how I played on the tee.   I had a mistake today on hole 13, but I'm very happy with my results and how I played on the tee.   
   
 Q.   So all the practice you have here gave you very positive results for this tournament?  
CARLOS ORTIZ:   Yes.   
   
 Q.   For the first time we have not only one Mexican in the top‑10 for this tournament, but both you and Oscar will be part of the top‑10, so what is the meaning for the Mexican golf?  
CARLOS ORTIZ:   Well, as I mentioned before, the Mexican golf is improving, Oscar and I demonstrated that and I'm very happy that we are the two in the top‑10, he's a very good friend of mine.  
And I'm glad we can keep on PGA TOUR for several years and to be together and to be very successful as Mexican players.   
   
 Q.   What are you doing for the following four or six weeks that you have ahead?   That's a lot of time just to be resting.  
CARLOS ORTIZ:   Well, that's exactly what I need.   I'm not going to do a lot.   I'm going to leave golf aside for awhile, rest and get ready for the following year.   
This winter season I'll get ready for the following year and, of course, I'll play a little bit of golf with my friends in a social level and I think that it's time to rest and get time for my private life.   
THE MODERATOR:   Any other questions for Carlos?   
   
 Q.   Will you participate in Hawaii?  
CARLOS ORTIZ:   Yes, I'm flying to Hawaii on January the 12th and that will be my first tournament for last year.   So I will take three two or three weeks to rest and get ready and then start training after that period of time.   
   
 Q.   Did you know the amount that will be included in your check?  
CARLOS ORTIZ:   No, not really.   
   
 Q.   Have you estimated the amount that will be incurred on your check?  
CARLOS ORTIZ:   No, I haven't seen it and I'm not interested in knowing.   26 or 27.   Yes, I think it's going to be a very good number.   So, as I'm a rookie in this, I don't know and I'm still learning, so I think what's going on and what's happening.   Thank you very much.   
THE MODERATOR:   Okay.   Carlos, thank you for being here.   Thanks for the questions.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT