OHL CLASSIC AT MAYAKOBA
November 13, 2014
Carlos Ortiz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Do you have some initial comments about what you did today?   
CARLOS ORTIZ:   Okay, the truth is that I started a little bit nervous with all the people who was watching here, family, friends, but the truth is that I had a very good beginning for after the first hole with a birdie, and then I birdied 3, 4, 5.   It helped me a lot to get relaxed.   Generally I was very happy with my round, and I know this is the first day, but we started‑‑ we had a very good start today.   
   
 Q.   What was the sensation you had with playing with Angel Cabrera and Camilo Villegas, Angel being a legend in Latin American golf and he has been a winner of two majors?  
CARLOS ORTIZ:   Well, Angel has been an idol for any Latin American player.   He's won two majors, and nobody else has been able to achieve that in a Latin America, and the truth is I was a little bit nervous.   It was very exciting to play with him, but after two holes it's like very common, you're playing against him, and I need to realize that I'm competing against them, and I was very happy with the performance I had today.   
   
 Q.   The fact that you started on the second schedule, do you think that affected your game, or do you think you can improve what you had today as you're starting earlier tomorrow?   
CARLOS ORTIZ:   I don't think there's a difference.   That's why we change schedules, one day in the afternoon and the other day in the morning, so tomorrow I have the first shift, and there was nothing different today.   We had a very good wind today in the morning and in the afternoon, so we had very similar weather conditions.   
   
 Q.   How did you feel your first tournament with the support of all the tournament who were just following you and cheering you?   How did you feel today?   
CARLOS ORTIZ:   Well, a little bit nervous with all the people.   I'm not used to it, the crowds, so I'm learning, and I just said, it helped a lot that we had a very good beginning with birdieing 1.   I started to relax, and we had a very good beginning.   This is the first day, and we still have a long way to run.   
   
 Q.   Could you please tell me how did you feel the conditions and the pins of the first round?   What did you think about the pins and weather conditions?  
CARLOS ORTIZ:   Well, I didn't see anything different.   I see them like normal pins.   I didn't consider them as very difficult.   They were accessible.   There were a couple of them that were very difficult.   You needed to be careful.   The course is in great condition, and the weather is helping us a lot this week.   So far this has been a great tournament.   
   
 Q.   Also the fact that the other Mexican players are participating, some of them had a very good day, Oscar being at 3‑under, so the rest of the Mexican players have had a very good performance trying to keep up with the good pace like you have established.   
CARLOS ORTIZ:   Well, I haven't checked the scores, but I hope all Mexican players have a very good tournament, and most of them can have a good performance in this tournament, but it's not very easy under pressure.   They are also under pressure, and some of them do not have their PGA cards, like Oscar, so if they have a good performance, it will be very good for them.   
   
 Q.   What would be your main goal for the next round?   
CARLOS ORTIZ:   Well, my objective as in any other tournament is to do the best performance and to have the best result.   
   
 Q.   Carlos, in this first round, this was a very good step.   What are you going to do for tomorrow now that you have checked all the weather conditions, and having the opportunity of saving this first round?   
CARLOS ORTIZ:   Also the same, I have established a strategy.   I will start very calm to do the best I can to try to hit many greens and to make many putts.   
   
 Q.   You regularly play in this field, so this is a golf course to attack or to be patient?   
CARLOS ORTIZ:   I think we need to have both things.   You need to concentrate on every tee, so you really need to feel there are flags that you need to attack and other flags you need to play away from, so that's how you play the tournament.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT