SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 22, 2019
Carlos Ortiz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk about today. Made it to 16-under quite a few times; finished at 16. Could never break that barrier.
CARLOS ORTIZ: You know, I didn't quite have it today. I feel like I put myself in good spots and just couldn't make putts.
The last two days -- obviously yesterday 7-under, but I still lost at least one stroke on the greens. And then today just felt like I was getting the breaks; I just couldn't them in the hole.
Sometimes goes my way; sometimes accident. Hopefully this time Sebastian can get it. I'm just happy with the result and the way I kept putting myself in positions, even though things were not going my way.
Q. You have to feel like one day it's going to happen here. You play awfully well at this golf course.
CARLOS ORTIZ: Yeah, I mean, I'm playing great. I definitely feel like I'm really close of winning, and I'm pretty confident it's going to come soon.
Q. Going to go down and watch Sebastian now?
CARLOS ORTIZ: Yeah. They're waiting for me to go, but I'm going to try and push it a little bit so I can see my friend win hopefully.
Q. Talk about Sebastian. He scrambled so well. Has he always been a good scrambler?
CARLOS ORTIZ: Honestly, I don't think so. I think he's always been a good ball-striker. I don't know. He's playing great and he's always been a great golfer. He really didn't care much about golf when we were in school. Finally he's caring a little bit and it shows when he cares how good he can be.
Q. What does it say, bogey on 15 and come back to force a playoff?
CARLOS ORTIZ: That shows lots of character and the confidence he has right now. He played great all week. I mean, he was putting himself in good spots. When he was out of position he scrambled great. He did everything well. He deserves to be where he was right now.
Q. What are his strengths as a player that you've seen over the years?
CARLOS ORTIZ: I don't think he has a lot of weaknesses. You could change the question the other way. He does everything really well: putts well, drives it awesome, of hits good irons. I think he does ever thing really good.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT