SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 21, 2019
Carlos Ortiz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Really solid round. Just evaluate your play.
CARLOS ORTIZ: Happy with the round. Obviously when you shoot 7-under it's a great round. Was really fun out there. It was easy to play good playing with Sebastian and Harris. I think the three of us played great, and I really enjoyed it.
Q. Your relationship with Sebastian. I know you both live in Dallas.
CARLOS ORTIZ: Yeah, he's a great friend. We been pretty close the last four years. We were good friends in college. Just fun when you can play with guys who get along, and especially when you're both playing really good.
Q. (Regarding Joaquin's win.) What confidence does that give you that you can go out there and do it, too?
CARLOS ORTIZ: I mean, that just validates that any of us can win. Me, Joaquin, Sebastian, we play every practice round together. You know, it's a guy we know pretty well and he's winning. It just gives you confidence that you can -- you know, extra belief that if he can do it I can do it.
Q. What momentum are you carrying into tomorrow's final round?
CARLOS ORTIZ: Hitting the ball great. Still feel like I left some putts out there. Feel like I'm in a great spot to have a chance to win tomorrow.
Q. How does the mindset change to how you can kind of make a move on moving day today and going into championship Sunday in the mix?
CARLOS ORTIZ: The whole goal from the beginning of the week was to have a chance to win tomorrow. You cannot win the tournament the first three days, but you can get yourself out of it. I think I've done a great job to keep myself in the tournament. Ready to go for tomorrow.
Q. What is it about this place?
CARLOS ORTIZ: I don't know. I guess I like the golf course.
Q. What is it about this golf course that fits you?
CARLOS ORTIZ: I couldn't tell you. I mean, I guess it just fits well. Greens are great. Really fast. I guess it's easy to make putts out here.
Q. Why do you and Sebastian get along? What makes you good friends?
CARLOS ORTIZ: I mean, obviously we are from Latin America. That's one start right there. Then I guess we just get along. He's a great guy. I like hanging out with great guys.
Q. How much do you play together back home in Dallas?
CARLOS ORTIZ: Not to much. We haven't really been back home. We play so much golf in the last six months. I mean, when we're home we talk to each other -- he probably comes more to the house and hangs out than we actually play golf.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT