NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: PENGUINS VS SENATORS
May 20, 2017
Jake Guentzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Is it just getting more opportunities and finally the dam will break?  
JAKE GUENTZEL: Hopefully.  Sometimes you go through instances like this.  Just got to stick with it.   
 Q.  Does getting a couple assists help with your confidence?  
JAKE GUENTZEL: Yes.  Whenever you can produce and help the team win, I think it gives you confidence.   
 Q.  When you score as easily as you did in the first game, can you describe the difference of playoff intensity and how hard it is to score a goal in the post-season?  
JAKE GUENTZEL: Space is limited out there.  Hard to get to the front of the net, harder to find those open areas for those guys to find you.  Yeah, it's tougher for sure.   
 Q.  Is it a confidence issue?  Do you get frustrated or you figure that it's going to come at some point?  
JAKE GUENTZEL: You just got to stay with it.  I mean, it's hard to score now.  You have to realize that.  You just got to stick with it.  Hopefully one goes in soon.   
 Q.  How much did Sid set the tone for you guys in that last game?  
JAKE GUENTZEL: Yeah, he was huge.  A player like that, he stepped up big, when we needed him most.  Yeah, he was huge for us.   
 Q.  When he's playing like that, is it a matter of trying to get the puck on his stick instead of vice versa?  
JAKE GUENTZEL: I mean, I think on any given night, you're trying to give him the puck, so...  What he does with it is special.  Trying to find those areas where he can find you.   
 Q.  Do you feel like you know what you want to do on the power play or are you still figuring out your role?  
JAKE GUENTZEL: Yeah, just got to try to be around the net, be a net presence.  They're such skilled guys out there, you have to find those areas.   
 Q.  Is that the area you played in college?  
JAKE GUENTZEL: A little bit different.  Still a little bit of a learning curve.  You just got to try to go with it.   
 Q.  What does Kuni bring to your line?  
JAKE GUENTZEL: Hard grit when he gets on the forecheck, obviously very skilled.  A little bit of everything.  Obviously he brings a different aspect to it.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
JAKE GUENTZEL: A little bit, yeah.  Great for so many years.  Yeah, obviously he's helped out.   
 Q.  When you're looking for advice in how to get through this part of the playoffs, are you turning to the veterans or towards more some of the young guys that went through this last year?  
JAKE GUENTZEL: A little bit of both.  There's so many guys that can help you out, have been through it.  I think whoever you're going to ask, you're getting good advice.   
 Q.  What is the best advice you've gotten so far?  
JAKE GUENTZEL: You got to take it in, because you don't know if these opportunities are going to come around again.  Got to make the most of it now.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT