NHL STADIUM SERIES: FLYERS VS PENGUINS
February 25, 2017
Jake Guentzel
Matt Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Pittsburgh - 4, Philadelphia - 2
Q. Jake, had you ever played in an outdoor game before, and if not, would you like to play in another one sometime?
JAKE GUENTZEL: Yeah, I played one in high school growing up, but I think just as a kid you get excited for one of these games, and to see the bright lights, it's pretty special.
Q. Just from a goaltender perspective what was this game like for you?
MATT MURRAY: It was a ton of fun, first of all.  Coming out there the first time, seeing all the fans it was pretty special.  It was a little bit cold at times, especially in the third.  We were carrying the play and I wasn't really moving around a whole lot, so I got a little bit cold, but other than that, it was pretty good.
Q. Is this about as good of a night you guys could ask for in your first ever NHL outdoor game?
JAKE GUENTZEL: Yeah, you don't really know what to expect coming in.  When you first walk out it's pretty crazy.  I remember getting the chills, and obviously to come out on top is nice.
Q. Matt, I know you're a guy that takes pride in never getting too high or too low.  Any nerves, butterflies with the crowd and the stage?
MATT MURRAY: A little bit, yeah.  You try and treat it like just another hockey game, but in reality it's a lot bigger stage.  It was my first outdoor game, so definitely felt a little bit more energy coming out of that tunnel, and definitely felt pretty good to get the two points.
Q. Matt, the first period, they came at you pretty hard and you had a lot of saves in that first period.  Did that sort of take you out of worrying about elements, worrying about the sight lines and just try to get into it because they were coming at you?
MATT MURRAY: Maybe a little bit, yeah.  Once you get out there and once the puck drops, you kind of try and put everything aside, no matter whether they're carrying the play or whether we're carrying the play.  You know, I think in such a crazy environment, there's a lot of nerves, but once that puck drops, everything just kind of fades away, and you just focus on what you need to do.
Q. Jake, you set up the first two goals, Cullen scores the third.  Something about Minnesota guys tonight, maybe the cold and the wind, how did you like playing in those conditions?  And did you feel like you were involved in a lot of plays tonight?  Seemed like every time you looked up the puck was following you around.
JAKE GUENTZEL: Yeah, just the excitement to play in the game, you look forward to this all year, and to have a chance to play outdoors is special, so you've just got to try to take it in and play your best.
Q. Matt, when you think about everything you've been able to do in just a short period of time, we can go down the list, but I'm not saying this would rank up with winning the Stanley Cup, but just playing in this environment, is it a highlight for you?  Can you describe sort of what it meant to you to get this opportunity?
MATT MURRAY: Yeah, it was really special.  It was really special.  You know, when you see on the calendar at the start of the year and one that you really look forward to all season, especially it being my first outdoor game.  And in such a huge stadium and a stadium with such history, and in front of all the greatest fans in sports in Pittsburgh.  Definitely one that I was looking forward to a lot, and I feel very privileged to be a part of something like this, and I had a blast.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT