NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 4, 2016
Channing Frye
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Obviously Muhammad Ali, your thoughts?  
CHANNING FRYE: It's just a sad day.  My dad used to tell me stories about being able to watch the fights and what he did for the African-American community, what he did for just transcending sports.   
I got to meet him twice just in passing.  Just the aura around him, what he did for an arena.  We were playing in the playoffs against the Lakers, and he came to a game.  In the middle of the game, the whole place gives a standing ovation.  We thought we did something, but it was just Muhammad Ali going to sit down.   
You have to think about kids who have never seen him or never seen any of his fights, but the impact that he still has is going to be missed.  I think it affects all of us, no matter what sport you play.  It's a pretty sad day.   
 Q.  Not that you need extra motivation at this point, but does something like that, when that happens, give you a little bit more?  
CHANNING FRYE: Yeah, I think you have to appreciate every day you have in this world.  Nothing is guaranteed.  Everyone asks, How you doing?  And I'm always saying, Can't be better, man.   
This is a great opportunity for us to just come out and play some good basketball.  We've been here for a while [after Game 1].  We've been thinking on it, stewing on it.  I think we're pretty excited to get back out here and see what we can do.   
 Q.  You shared some time with Tristan on the floor.  I think you guys haven't used that lineup so much.  Was that something that you had in mind?  
CHANNING FRYE: I'm not the coach, so I don't have anything in mind other than when I go out there, make some shots and try to play some defense.  For me, I don't really ever worry about Coach Lue or think about stuff like that.  I think the game kind of dictates who is going to play and who is not.  Whenever my number is called, I'm going to be ready.  If not, there is a reason for it.  I'm playing behind two or three pretty dang good players.   
 Q.  It's probably different back in Cleveland, but driving in today listening to the radio, there was a lot of talk of whether the Cavaliers can win a game in this series.  Obviously, we're moving pretty fast with that assumption.  Does that amuse you, bother you?  How do you feel about it?  
CHANNING FRYE: Y'all are bored.  That's it.  Ain't got nothing else to talk about.  If you're talking about that, y'all are crazy.  But go ahead, next.  It's all right.   
 Q.  When the opposing team is so offensively competent, it drains energy from you defensively.  How do you balance that out?  
CHANNING FRYE: We have to do a better job of controlling the pace of the game.  They are a great passing team and they all move without the ball.  I think for us, we have to be physical with them, put a lot of pressure on the ball.  And I think once we get turnovers or missed shots, we have to go out and run and make them play defense.   
During the course of the game, it's like a chess match.  We have to be more physical, and I think we have to be more forceful in what we want to accomplish on the defensive end.   
 Q.  How challenging is it when you go against a team that switches like they do all the time?  
CHANNING FRYE: It's challenging, but, again, it's nothing that we haven't seen before.  I think the real challenging part with them is that they're on the same page defensively.  They have a lot of athletes, they're very tall, and they're all pretty competent defenders.  So for us, it's just about taking advantage of the opportunities that we have and not standing still and moving on offense as much as they move on offense.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT