NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SUNS v LAKERS
May 28, 2010
Channing Frye
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Is the loss forgotten or lingering? 
 CHANNING FRYE: You know, trying to forget. You know, of course, it's all over everything. Everybody talks about it. 
 But, hey, it's something that happens. The attitude is good. We're ready to go tomorrow. I think today is a great day for us to get back, laugh a little bit, kind of understand where we made our mistakes outside of that one play, just try and get better. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 CHANNING FRYE: Sort of yes and no. I'll tell you how I feel tomorrow. Today I'm kind of tired. I feel great. I think I'll get some treatment, get in a cold tub, I'm ready to go. 
 Have great teammates. I tell you guys every day, I love playing with these guys. It's a unique opportunity getting out and playing with these guys. For me, I know for everybody, you just don't want to waste the opportunity. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 CHANNING FRYE: Not necessarily the game so much. Just the other stuff. Kind of get your mind off of it, refocus. 
 You know, it's a game, we lost. Nonetheless it was exciting. A great part of history. Hey, at least we're coming home and getting a chance to play at home. 

 Q. Did that affect the coaching rhythm at all? 
 CHANNING FRYE: No, I didn't so he was sick till afterwards, so not. 

 Q. (Question regarding the zone.) 
 CHANNING FRYE: They were extremely good at finding holes, constantly moving it. For us, we got a little stagnant, dictate where we were going on defense. 
 We got to try to hurt them and keep them for having so many options. For us it's a matter of being more aggressive in the zone. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 CHANNING FRYE: You know what, I'll be honest, it's a team game. I know it takes a lot of responsibility. You know what, it's kind of impossible for me to say, Don't do that. It's just not going to happen. 
 From my point of view, I feel like I could have helped him out, try to get it when I saw it was going to be short. I was going to let it bounce if it would have actually hit the ground. 
 Just stuff like that happens. Stuff like this will make him better tomorrow. He's going to be great tomorrow, I'll tell you that right now. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT