NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SUNS v LAKERS
May 22, 2010
Channing Frye
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   CHANNING FRYE: No rediscovering. Geez, guys, I just had two games I didn't shoot too well. It's not like it hasn't happened before, that it happens every playoff. It just happens.   
 I looked at it, saw why it happened, have to fix it. It's not just -- I'll be honest, I'm kind of tired of talking about it now. Now it's like four days ago.   
 So for me, I just want to come out and help my team win. And for me, I'm more upset that I haven't been doing a better job on the glass and haven't had the energy that I usually have, especially on defense, getting steals and deflections and creating, kind of creating the havoc that I like to cause out there.  
  
  Q. Is there a feeling you have or maybe the team has, backs to the wall, more pressure?  
 CHANNING FRYE: No, there's no pressure. They did what they had to do. They're supposed to win at home. Won two games. So we win. All we're focused on is this next Game 3, we'll see what you guys are talking about then.   
 You know what, I love how -- just a completely different situation in the playoffs. You have to be down 0-2, then you go back home, and you say, "Oh man, the thing is over," this and that. You know what happens if we win the next game: The Lakers this and that. It's just so polar opposite every single day: They're great or we're great or they suck, we suck.   
 It's funny. It's something to learn and a great experience. But we're even keeled about the situation. I think so are the Lakers and so are we.  
  
  Q. You've been so prolific, now people are trying to measure, see what's wrong. Some say that you're hesitating on that shot. Are you hesitating?  
 CHANNING FRYE: No, no. No. I think it's just they're doing a great job mixing up the people that are running at me. You know what, sometimes you have to break down the film, see who is coming at me, when they're coming at me. Stuff like that.   
 They did a great job taking me off my time. You know I take it as a compliment, they're running at me that hard. And sometimes shots just don't go in. I felt pretty good on all of them. Maybe two or three I was kind of figuring out where that guy was, and I think one of them I was at the end of a shot clock. And it's going to happen.   
 I think it's great that everybody's saying, "Oh my gosh, you had two bad shooting days, what's wrong with you?" Hey, it happens.   
 And everybody who has played basketball understands you can go out there, shoot 100 shots every day. Some days you're just not going to shoot well. It's just going to happen.   
 You have to have confidence in yourself and not make a big deal about it. Not think -- it's funny that I was watching NBA TV and they're talking about Rashard Lewis, and I and I think it's the same difference. They're doing a great job of taking the 3-ball away and making him make different decisions. And it's something that we've had to really kind of look at the film and I betcha it will be a good game tonight.  
  
  Q. What adjustments for tomorrow night, what do you expect? The same --  
 CHANNING FRYE: Nothing. They'll be doing the same thing they've been doing. No. 1 team in the world. Best team in the league.   
 Why would they change it? They'll come out extremely aggressive. They know how we play at home. For us, I think we're not really making adjustments as adjustments, I would say as a team we're making adjustments as a team, saying we're at home, let's run, let's get out and play Suns basketball. I don't think we've played that yet.  
  
  Q. You talked about defensively (indiscernible), how much do those teams feed off the offense?   
 CHANNING FRYE: I'd be honest, I think it's pretty much all of it. I think a lot of people think I get the rhythm from offense. It's more defense, being able to be physical with the big guys, being able to get my hands on some boards, get deflections, get out on a run, use a lot of energy. I thought the last two games my energy was kind of down and I tried to pick it up, do the best I could, and shots or no shots.   
 It was what it was. I'll be honest, I played as hard as I could. Got in foul trouble. Shots didn't go in. Different matchups work for our team, with J.D., Grant, Amare and Steve, and what can I say? I wish I could have contributed and helped us. But it's over and we'll move on.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT