NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SUNS v LAKERS
May 21, 2010
Channing Frye
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		   CHANNING FRYE: I felt like for me and for our team we have to come out and have fun. I think it's going to help the overall team.

 Q. You've never been in the situation before where the lights are bright. 
 CHANNING FRYE: I don't care about no bright lights, man. You're talking to the wrong person. I don't care about none of that. You know, to be honest, it's just a thing of more of we just need to come out and have fun. I think I was trying to be something I wasn't; I was being serious. Oh, gosh, I gotta make this shot instead of letting it fly like I usually do. So all that bright lights crap is nothing.
 You know what, it's a basketball game. They're men like we're men. They're a great team. We're a great team. We have to come out and play ball like we have been practicing all year.

 Q. (Indiscernible)?
 CHANNING FRYE: Play our game. Most teams are probably taller than us. So it's not so much length, it's just that they're taking advantage of our mistakes. A lot of defensive breakdowns. I feel like we still haven't played our game where everybody can say we put our best out there, but they just beat us. 
 I think we have a lot of defensive mistakes that we made. And you know what, we just have people that aren't just hitting shots, me included. And we just have a lot of defensive mistakes.

 Q. When you rewatch it, do you see yourself hesitating or pump faking more --
 CHANNING FRYE: You know what, sometimes the ball just doesn't feel right in my hands. You know what, pump fake, I don't want shoot it and the ball comes back. So that's going to happen. Sometimes the ball's not going to come clean out of your hands. 
 And sometimes with the length, I'm trying to read the defense, what they're giving up. And through the process. It's just something that I had to look and figure out. But it's over. It's done with. 
 I saw the film. Now just continue on. There's no confidence problems. There's no mental problems. There's no nothing. You just had two bad games. 
 And for our team, I put a lot of pressure on myself because I feel like I'm a big part of this team and to help out. And you know what, instead of trying to win every game on every single shot, I just need to come out here and play, like I said, play some "D" and get some boards and focus on that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT