MINNESOTA UNITED MEDIA CONFERENCE
March 24, 2018
Adrian Heath
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








New York Red Bulls - 3, Minnesota United - 0
ADRIAN HEATH: We spoke about it all week, and we watched the game against the Timbers and they weren't ready for it and we weren't ready for it as well today.  There was a lot in the first half.  We had a couple of good breakaways, and I thought if we had had a bit more quality, but their quality showed out in the end, two top drawer finishes from Bradley Wright-Phillips.  I was disappointed with the individual effort.  I don't think we won many individual battles against any of their player.
Q. When the wholesale changes you have, how much did their pressing and counterparts -- seed like you had to bypass the midfield?
ADRIAN HEATH: We knew it was going to come.  We spoke about it since Monday.  They try to suffocate the life out of you and they all press, and there are certain soft spots the way they press, you can't get out.  Unfortunately our quality wasn't enough to take advantage of that today.
Q. Miguel was floating out to the right side a little bit to try to find space.  Did that hurt the shape a little bit?
ADRIAN HEATH: I just think collectively the better team won.  I think that the better team wanted to win more than we did, which is not a good thing to say.  And it's been a disappointing day.  It gives me food for thought of a lot of things because a lot of people have been waiting for an opportunity.
Q. Now, you're going to get your guys back in a few days, the full complement.  Do you toss this up and say if it's an anomaly, an outlier?
ADRIAN HEATH: No, we've studied the game and looked at what we didn't do well, and there was plenty of that.  Try and take some positives, but there won't be a lot, I don't think.
Q. Can you talk about the two rookies getting their start and debut?
ADRIAN HEATH: Well, they have an idea of what it's like at this level now.  You know, I thought Wie I can't tell did okay but you know, a couple of little lapses and Bradley Wright-Phillips, one ball straight in behind, it's a great finish from him.  But they will get better and they certainly weren't my concern today, them two.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT