ORLANDO CITY SC MEDIA CONFERENCE
April 24, 2016
Adrian Heath
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
NY Red Bulls - 3, Orlando City - 2   
 Q.  Adrian, what went wrong in the second half?  
ADRIAN HEATH: Well, I think of games that are really tight, decisions went against us, again.  I think the biggest decision of the night was Cyle Larin fouled.  If he was, is he a red card?  Yes, he is.  It could have been a big turning point in the game.   
I'm not saying that they didn't deserve to win the game, because they did.  But once again, me and Jesse were just talking.  He's of the same mind of me.  It's another game where the officials (Indiscernible).   
It was disappointing because I thought we were on the counter attack.  I thought we were dangerous all evening, and I always felt we were one pass away from getting in on two or three occasions, but it wasn't to be.   
 Q.  Before the Red Bulls scored tonight, I found this match to be awfully similar to your team's win over New York City FC earlier this season.  What were your takeaways from why your team just couldn't grind out, and in particular your defense just couldn't grind out the third points in the second half?  
ADRIAN HEATH: I think it's a combination of really good play from them.  We spoke about it before the game.  I think when they start making their combination plays and they start getting on the boards, I think they're a really good team.  That's why they won the whole thing last year (Indiscernible).   
So it's about defending our turnovers, especially in the first 15 minutes of the first half.  That's when we were down the most.  But they've got some good players.  It was a mixture of both, really.   
 Q.  How, considering the way the game was called, how did it affect the way your team played and reacted, the way the Red Bulls play reacted?  
ADRIAN HEATH: I said before, goals change games.  After we got a penalty and they scored, at 2-Nil makes it a completely different game.  Even if you don't score the penalty, it changes the whole complexion of the game.  Big decisions change games.   
We go back three weeks, I had Peter Walton ring me on Monday and say I'm really sorry four of them were offsides on the goal.  Really sorry that he didn't defend Servando Carrasco's arm.  So did we.   
 Q.  You talked about the decisions and then maybe the element scored a little bit too early?  
ADRIAN HEATH: I don't think you ever score too early on the road.  I'll take that every week if we can arrange it.  But I think it was a strange game because they kept getting chances where I kept thinking we were going to always get another one on the break, and it never really materialized.  But I'll have a look at the film, but I think we gave the ball away in dangerous areas too many times.  But they did all right tonight.   
 Q.  You're obviously having a problem with the officiating.  What do you think is the solution then to some of the issues?  
ADRIAN HEATH: How long have we got?  I've got a flight tomorrow.  I think I've said over numerous occasions what I think the issue is, but I get myself in too much trouble when I say things.  But too many times and I've said this over the weeks too many times, the outcome of the game is by the people who are officiating, not the people who are participating in it, and that's a problem.   
But, hey, I can't take anything away from the Red Bulls tonight.  I thought they probably deserved to win the game, but I always thought we were capable of scoring on the counter attack.   
 Q.  In the first half they created a bunch of chances and it was almost getting comical how they were missing those chances.  As a coach, were you getting worried seeing that?  Going into halftime were you thinking we gave away too many?  
ADRIAN HEATH: I said on the bench we're riding a little too much here.  If it goes to 1-1, probably 2-Nil at halftime.  But we had a couple early opportunities where we broke.  We didn't make the most of them, but they, as I said, all credit to them.  I thought they pushed it, and pushed it all evening and got a couple of big decisions, I think.   
 Q.  There's been a couple of games where you guys had just weathered the storm on a lot of pressure around the net and then cracked towards the end of the game.  How do you work on maintaining the composure all the way to the end?  
ADRIAN HEATH: Well, we've got to get a bit more disciplined.  As I say, we turned the ball over a little too cheaply at times in dangerous areas and put ourselves under more pressure.  So we've got to get better at that.  We've got to weather the storm more.  You know, Joe had too much to do tonight.  He made two or three great saves this evening.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT