FEDCUP WORLD GROUP PLAY-OFFS: SWEDEN v USA
April 21, 2013
Johanna Larsson
Lars-Anders Wahlgren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







V. WILLIAMS/J. Larsson
  6‑3, 7‑5

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Johanna, obviously you were sticking in there and watching those match points go.   She needed eight of them.   What were you thinking as you were getting back in and saving them all? 
JOHANNA LARSSON:   I think I was struggling actually the whole match to find a god rhythm.
Yeah, I didn't find my rhythm and it was really hard out there.   I really tried to keep fighting.   She needed a few match points. 
As one of my teammates said earlier, a couple of months ago when we played in Argentina, the match is not over until it's over.
I just kept that in my mind and kept going. 

Q.   Were you surprised at the change and having Venus or were you anticipating it?
JOHANNA LARSSON:   No, I wasn't surprised at all.   I think Sofia was playing a really good match yesterday and it was tough for Sloane obviously.
I thought that the U.S. team would make a change today, so I was prepared mentally to play Venus.

Q.   What about you, Lars, were you expecting to see Venus out there after Saturday's result?
CAPTAIN WAHLGREN:   Yes, a little bit.   I mean, we talked about it a little bit yesterday, and also even on Friday I was thinking a lot about are they going to play Serena and Venus even on Saturday.
So I think we all the time knew that when both of them are here and both played well in Charleston last week, in the semis there, so we knew they were in good form both of them and we were ready.

Q.   Obviously disappointed, but were you fairly pleased with how your girls played?
CAPTAIN WAHLGREN:   Johanna had an unbelievable tough weekend Saturday, Sunday playing the world No. 1 and former world No. 1.   It's the best experience you can ever have, but a very, very tough challenge for her.
As she said, she was fighting very hard.   She can keep her head up and be very proud of herself and also go back home with a lot experience to use for the rest of the year.
Same for Sofia.   She did an unbelievable match beating No. 16 in the world.   She lost today against No. 1.   You can see why she is No. 1 in the world.   We know why she's No. 1.   She's playing unbelievable tennis against all girls in even the tournaments before.
I think it was definitely great experience for our girls, and they took a lot knowledge out of this weekend definitely. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT