ISPS HANDA WALES OPEN
May 31, 2012
Simon Thornton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   And you knew what the weather would bring, and you bogeyed the first, and then you responded terrifically on the front nine.   
SIMON THORNTON:   I played well on front nine.   Hit it lovely.   Hit it in the rough on one hole and still managed to birdie the hole, but from then on I played lovely now, yeah.   So I hit it well in the front nine.   Back nine I still hit it lovely.   I just didn't hole the putts.   Every time I seemed to miss the green, I didn't putt well and I holed a 6‑, 7‑footer for par and putted well and drove the ball well.   So those are the two things you need to do.  
   
 Q.   You say it's like playing at home, but was it still difficult?   
SIMON THORNTON:   Yeah, it's difficult but my normal shot suits the wind obviously.   Hopefully it will be blowing for the rest of the week as well, it would be nice.   Suits my game down to the round, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Calmest it's beennow.   
SIMON THORNTON:   Yeah, as soon as the wind dies down, my game goes a bit.   But I played well all day I have to say.   Even though I shot 1‑over on the back nine, still played nice.  
   
 Q.   Has this been coming?   
SIMON THORNTON:   Last week‑‑ well, yes and no.   I haven't been shooting the scores I should have been doing.   Did a lot of work last week on my swing and changed a couple wee things and back to the old putter again.   
So when you're playing well and you're not holing putts, it doesn't matter.   So starting to hit the ball in the right places and make putts.   
   
 Q.   I take it the putter just wasn't being kind to you?  
SIMON THORNTON:   Not at all no, it wasn't.   I had to go back and change the grip and change putter and everything to get some feel back.   Did that, so the exercise works and back to the old putter now, so it seems to be working.  
   
 Q.   And the greens at this time of day are okay?  
SIMON THORNTON:   Yeah, you hit the right spots, they are okay.   They are okay when the ball goes in, aren't they.   When they don't go in, they are not okay.   
   
 Q.   And from here, just kick on?   
SIMON THORNTON:   Same again for the next three days would be nice.   See what happens.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT