U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 1, 2004
Michelle Ellis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
Go over your birdies and bogeys, for us, please?
MICHELLE ELLIS:  Birdie on No. 3, the par-5.  I had a sand iron for third, and the putt was about 5 feet.

The bogey was on the par-3, 7th, missed the green right with an 11-wood and didn't get up-and-down.

And my next birdie was just on the par-5, 13, hit for two.
Q.  It was a very consistent round?
 MICHELLE ELLIS:  Didn't make too many mistakes out there.  We had a good few days practicing around here to see where we wanted to miss everything.  Obviously you want to miss greens short here, so you have an opportunity to get up-and-down.  The greens, I had a lot of opportunities out there, the greens are tough to read.  But there's three days yet.
Q.  No 3-putts, that's quite achievement on Donald Ross greens.
 MICHELLE ELLIS:  For sure.  I'm really happy with the round.  I've worked hard leading up to this event.  I enjoyed it out here.  It's a lot of fun playing in this championship.
Q.  Is this your best round in a Women's Open?
 MICHELLE ELLIS:  This is my 5th Open.  So I don't know, I've been playing since 2000.  Yeah, it would be up there.  It would be up there.  I enjoy this golf course very much.
Q.  What are you going to try to do tomorrow afternoon?
 MICHELLE ELLIS:  It's going to get harder and faster as it goes on.  It's going to play different than this morning.  My game plan is to miss it short.  So you can get up-and-down.  That will give you your best opportunity.  Even with putts, too.  It's very forgiving off the tee, this golf course, but the shots into the greens and things like that, you've got to watch where the pins are to leave yourself the best opportunity for birdie.
Q.  There's been a lot of discussion on the 16th hole.  You made a nice 4 on it, tell us what you did?
 MICHELLE ELLIS:  I hit my best drive of the day, and just drilled an 11-wood in there, which is equivalent to a 4-iron.  I took to the middle of the green.  It's not a pin you want to -- the game plan is middle of the green every day, and take what we get.  Obviously the biggest thing is to get a great tee shot off there, and get an opportunity to have yourself a shot off the middle of the green.
Q.  You could have gone fairly low today?
 MICHELLE ELLIS:  I hit a lot of great shots.  There's a lot of opportunities in the back nine to start off, 11, 12, 13.  We're not hitting very long irons in there at all.  So obviously you give yourself opportunities, but I didn't have any 3-putts, but the putts that I did miss, I was over reading them, under reading them, the course, Donald Ross, he's 1-up on me at the moment.
Q.  Do you expect it to get harder as the week goes on?
 MICHELLE ELLIS:  Obviously, they're not quick by any means, it's trying to read them, you know what I mean, to leave yourself in the best place to give yourself an opportunity to be aggressive.  If you do get a little bit above them, they can get little slick on you.  Obviously the game plan, as everybody's is, is to give yourself an uphill putt at them.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT