WEETABIX WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 11, 2002
Michelle Ellis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Congratulations.  Great  round.  Give us some comments on your play today and how you feel about your  finish.
MICHELLE ELLIS:  Obviously I feel steady about my finish.  I played great all year.  It's great, to put it all together and finish second in the British Open, it's pretty cool.

Q.   Is this your best finish in a major?
MICHELLE ELLIS:  The tournaments down in Australia where I finished third twice this year and I had a pretty good U.S. Open.  Like I said, this is the first time I sort of hung in there and put it together under the gun, really.

Q.   Are you disappointed at all, that you came so close to winning?
MICHELLE ELLIS:  No, not really, because my main goal going in to today was 2 under par.  Under the gun, like I said, I haven't been in that position before.  And to play against, you know, and beat about the same as Webb, and people like that, you know.  And to finish second to Webbie, it's awesome.  Like I said, my main goal today was to go out there and hit the fairways and greens and see what happens.  It was pretty tough when we started this morning, and to shoot under par and finish second after all that, I'm pretty stoked.

Q.   Do you look at Karrie as a role model?
MICHELLE ELLIS:  Of course, all the girls in Australia look up to Karrie.  She's been great for Australian golf and world golf.  And to it finish second to Karrie, like I said, is pretty awesome.

Q.   Do you feel that you can maybe overtake her one day?  Does this give you a lot of confidence?
MICHELLE ELLIS:  I had a lot of confidence when I finished in Australia.  Like I said, I played well all year but I haven't been able to put it all together.  And to play in this tournament and pull it all together  -- Karrie is a great player and to be up into her category and looked at in her category is pretty awesome in itself.  But we all strive to beat Webbie and Annika.  And that's what we're out there to do.  I love Webb to death, but she is a rival when we get out on the golf course.

Q.   What do you strive to be like in Karrie?  Her chipping, her putting, what is it about her that you admire?
MICHELLE ELLIS:  None of that.  It's just her consistency under pressure and her ability to, under the gun, consistently pull it off.  And I think that's what makes Webb and Annika both very successful players.  And that's what we're all out here to do, is be consistent, because if you're consistent at golf you're going to be successful, and that's what it's all about, really.

Q.   What is the strongest part of your game?
MICHELLE ELLIS:  My mid-irons, and my short game.

Q.   What is the longest iron you carry?
MICHELLE ELLIS:  A 5-iron this week.





End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT