MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 6, 2021
Viktor Hovland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  Q. Just talk about how you found the golf course the last couple days and how it's been playing for you.
 VIKTOR HOVLAND:   It's been very good.  It's very firm and fast already.  I came in pretty early, and I played nine holes on Sunday, and even then it was pretty firm and fast.  So, yeah, it's in great shape.  So hopefully, it stays this way.
 Q. You've come a long way in the two years since you were at Butler Cabin there.  What's the biggest improvement?  And what are your expectations this week now having a couple years under your belt?
 VIKTOR HOVLAND:   Yeah, I just -- every week I show up to try to perform well.  I know I'm capable to contend this week, but obviously, you have to play really well and have things go your way.  But it's crazy.  It's been a really cool journey the last couple years, and to be back here as a professional is very special.
 Q. What's the strongest part of your game right now?
 VIKTOR HOVLAND:   That's a good question.  I'd say -- I mean, I'm usually a pretty good driver.  I feel like I haven't lost anything there.  Driving it fine.  I'm starting to come around a little bit with my iron game.  It's all about just kind of leaving it in the right spots here and hopefully make some putts.
 Q. Who's been the most helpful to you in figuring this place out?
 VIKTOR HOVLAND:   It's hard to say one person.  It's just kind of picking a lot of different people's brains about it because everyone has their own unique perspective on it.  But it was great fun to play with Phil and Paul today.  They were very candid about telling me how to miss in certain places and kind of what they've strategized into certain pins.
 So, yeah, it's just fun to kind of pick people's brains about this place.
 Q. Is it hard to take in so much -- because those guys have so much.  Is there such a thing as too much, or do you just kind of try to pick and choose what it is they tell you?
 VIKTOR HOVLAND:   I think the more info, the better, but the application of it can certainly become too much.  At the end of the day, it's just golf.  The fairway's right there, and the green's right there, so you've just got to execute the right shots and, yeah, just leave it in the right spots.
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT