WORKDAY CHARITY OPEN
July 12, 2020
Viktor Hovland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. I know this wasn't what you were hoping for today, but how would you summarize the day in your words?
VIKTOR HOVLAND:   Yeah, I got off to a pretty nice start.  Hit a lot of good shots.  3-under through five holes, that's kind of what you're looking for.  Misjudged the wind a little bit on 6 but made a really nice bogey.  I really kept on hitting good shots, but I just couldn't really make any putts and couldn't get the momentum.  On the back nine it just wasn't quite going in, and then I started hitting some bad shots and just was one of those days.
Q. What can you take out of a day like today going forward?
VIKTOR HOVLAND:   Yeah, just anytime you can be in contention and have a chance to win, I think that's always a learning experience.  Obviously Justin and Collin, they played awesome.  I've just got to go back to what I do and get a little bit better at putting and just get a little bit better with my whole game and maybe next time we can have a better chance at it.
Q. Are you feeling more comfortable in these situations since you're putting yourself there a little bit more?
VIKTOR HOVLAND:   I would say so, but it never becomes comfortable.  You're always on your toes a little bit.  You're always nervous, and you've always got to hit the shots that you need to hit, so it doesn't come to you naturally just because you've been there before.  But it definitely helps.
Q. With J.T. and Collin battling it out, what did you see down the stretch there on the back nine from those guys?
VIKTOR HOVLAND:   Yeah, I mean, J.T. got off to a slow start, but he did a good job of just kind of staying in it.  He made a couple of putts there around the end of the front nine and early back nine.  Hit a lot of good shots and made some putts.  You know, you're never really out of it, even though you're three, four back.  You never know if the other guy is going to make a birdie or you might make four or five birdies in a row.  So they did a good job of staying patient and hitting really good shots.
FastScripts by ASAP Sports






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT