DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
December 12, 2020
Viktor Hovland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Brilliant 66 today, but before that, an obvious question, which is after 14,000 miles of trip from México to Dubai, how are you feeling right now?
 VIKTOR HOVLAND:   Honestly not too bad.  Since we started going, I feel a lot better.  But certainly when I wake up in the morning, it's a little rough.  But I can't complain.
 Q. The golf seems to have followed you; the quality you had at Mayakoba you brought over to the season-ending event on The European Tour.  What was the secret to today's performance, the 66?
 VIKTOR HOVLAND:   I feel like I hit it well the first two days as well.  I just didn't really get it that close.  Today I was able to hit my approach shots a little closer.  Drove it a little better off the tee, so that set that up, and I was able to make a couple putts early, just kind of get the momentum from get-go.  I don't think I -- yeah, my first birdies of the day, the first two days, were on 5 and 7 instead of today I was able to birdie the first three.  So that always helps.
 Q. This time last year, you had a trio of Top-10s and you were 97 in the world and now you're the Top 15 in the world and two wins, as well, on the PGA TOUR.  Did you expect the journey to this quick to the point you are in the game already?
 VIKTOR HOVLAND:   No, I didn't.  I felt I was capable of it.  Certainly had that belief in me but still had a lot of stuff to improve on and I still feel like I do.  But I've been able to kind of put some really nice tournaments together, and gotten my kind of bad game up to a very high level.  That's gone by very quickly.
 Q. We know there's a lot of golf still to go tomorrow, and you've shown what you can do in the United States on the PGA TOUR, what would it mean to capture your first title on this tour and especially one of this magnitude?
 VIKTOR HOVLAND:   I grew up watching The European Tour, growing up in Norway, it's a lot closer to home.  I've already had a couple of wins on the PGA TOUR and it would be really nice to add to the resumé by getting one on The European Tour.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT