THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 12, 2020
Viktor Hovland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. At the start it was a good day of scoring when we got here, but you guys still found a way to make some birdies even after it firmed up in the afternoon.
VIKTOR HOVLAND: Yeah, it definitely started gusting up and as you said the greens got a little firmer, so it was definitely playing a little harder, but some of the pins out there, if you are hitting good iron shots, you can certainly get close to the pins. So it's kind of, with how this course is set up you either hit a little bad shot and you can miss it on the wrong side and you can make a bogey or double or you can hit a not so good shot on the right side and you can still make birdie. So it's a very challenging course.
Q. Perfect shot on 17. Going to be the only day we have fans out there, you gave them a show today, you have to take advantage of it.
VIKTOR HOVLAND: Yeah I guess, it was nice to kind of start the week off with that one on 17 and, yeah, nice little cheer from the crowd. And, yeah, maybe that helped me nudge the ball a little further on 18 barely over the water there.
Q. I want to know what you learned in the last couple of weeks. You get the win and we play in brutal conditions, hard to back that up, then to come to this championship, what's the last couple of weeks been like in terms of your learning how to be a professional?
VIKTOR HOVLAND: Those two weeks are pretty harsh because with the conditions sort of what they are and the greens are firm and fast you can still play pretty decent golf and you miss a couple shots here and there and you can easily miss the cut. But I thought I continued to kind of work on the things that I really needed to work on and I saw some progress, although I didn't get the results that I wanted to, and that's, it's nice to come back to a place like this where it's more traditional golf, if you could say, you know, a little softer fairway, less wind, you can attack more and you're going to get a little bit more out of your good shots.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT