A MILITARY TRIBUTE AT THE GREENBRIER
September 15, 2019
Viktor Hovland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Well-played again today. Another really good final round of golf. Course playing pretty easy for you out there?
VIKTOR HOVLAND: I mean, there was no wind today so that really helped. The greens got a little firmer so you had to watch about that.
But I just hit it a little better today and made some putts on top of that.
Q. You're a player that obviously hasn't seen a lot of these golf courses. How have you managed to get enough information and knowledge about them to be able to go out and play well on them?
VIKTOR HOVLAND: Well, I've actually played here before. I was here four months ago for the Big 12 championships while I was still in college, so I didn't really need a whole lot of preparation going in.
I actually got in Tuesday night and only got to play 13 holes in the Wednesday Pro-Am. Course is pretty straight in front of you. I think one of the reasons I've been playing so well on Sunday is getting more familiar with the courses and just getting comfortable.
Q. Your 64 today ties a record the 17 consecutive rounds in the 60s. Bob Estes has the same number. Does that surprise you?
VIKTOR HOVLAND: I don't know. I didn't really think about that. I would've thought maybe it was a little lower. I don't know. But I've been -- I turned pro out of school in the summer, and I don't know how the other golf courses we play out there for the other half of the season, but we've been playing courses that have been pretty gettable. Not a whole lot of wind and greens have been fairly soft.
I've just played pretty consistently, so, yeah, it's been a pretty cool ride.
Q. Any particular difficult spots on the golf course that the leaders will have to face?
VIKTOR HOVLAND: Good question. All the pins are pretty tucked. Even if you have a wedge in you always have to watch that. You can't really get too cute on a couple holes, and if you miss on the wrong side you're making a bogey automatically. You have to be patient and just execute shots.
Q. Can we just get some comments on the Solheim Cup and Europe winning that. I know that means a lot to you.
VIKTOR HOVLAND: Yeah.
Q. Especially with Suzann...
VIKTOR HOVLAND: Yeah, for sure. Obviously playing if college and in junior golf as well, like team golf is something that I really value that. I think that's almost a pinnacle of golf in my opinion, being a part of a team and succeeding together. Doesn't get much more fun than at that.
Obviously to have Petersen from Norway to make the clinching putt is pretty cool.
Q. I probably missed it, but were you guys on Old White in April with Oklahoma State?
VIKTOR HOVLAND: We were, yeah.
Q. How much differently, did it play any differently then to now and how much did that experience then help you now?
VIKTOR HOVLAND: I would say it was probably a little softer and colder because it was earlier in the year, so the golf course plays a lot longer and it was definitely more windy when we played.
So I would say played maybe a tad easier this week, but the greens were a little firmer and a little faster, which made it a little trickier definitely around the greens. If you short-sided yourself when we were here for the Big 12s you somewhat had a shot of making an up and down. But now you're basically just hitting a bunker shot or chipping to 15 feet and trying to make that for par.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT