BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
September 18, 2019
Viktor Hovland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  When was the last time you played golf on European soil?  
VIKTOR HOVLAND: That must have been, wow, last time I was in Europe was like nine months ago. I can't remember, it's been a while.   
 Q.  Accent's gone a bit American, as well?  
VIKTOR HOVLAND: It has, unfortunately.   
 Q.  How excited about the week ahead?  
VIKTOR HOVLAND: Very. It's been a while since I've played on you're own soil. We have a really cool venue this week and hopefully I can continue to play some good golf.   
 Q.  First impressions of the course and setup here?  
VIKTOR HOVLAND: The course is in very good shape, and you know, you've got to think about it a little bit, clubs to hit off of tees and where to hit it into greens. The greens are very subtle, and you can't really see in front of the fairway, so you have to know the green areas and you've got to do good preparation to play well out here.   
 Q.  You've had a ridiculous run of low scoring out on the PGA TOUR recently. How comfortable and how good is your game right now?  
VIKTOR HOVLAND: I'd say it's decent. I took a couple weeks off two weeks ago, and I got a little rusty, but it was nice to get a break in and recharge the batteries.   
I mean, I'd say it's okay. I know what I've got and that's kind of the main thing. I'd like to improve a lot of stuff, but it's what it is.   
 Q.  It is the start of The Ryder Cup points, I know it's a way off, but you said that almost the pinnacle of golf would be team events. What would it mean to play in The Ryder Cup one day?  
VIKTOR HOVLAND: That would mean everything to be part of the team. I love college golf so much, even though professional golf is really cool, I still think about the times that we had in college. There's nothing better than winning a tournament as a team, and hopefully one day I'll be part of a winning Ryder Cup Team.   
 Q.  Talking of teams, Suzann last weekend. How impressive was that?  
VIKTOR HOVLAND: That was unreal. That gave me goosebumps.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT