U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 16, 2019
Viktor Hovland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Tremendous way to cap off your amateur career.  Talk about what you were able to do in this tournament, what you were able to do today in particular?  
VIKTOR HOVLAND: Yeah, that was fun.  I hit a lot of greens and hit a lot of fairways this week.  Got off to a great start on the first round but wasn't quite able to capitalize on it.  I had another great start today, and it was nice to finish with a birdie and shoot 4-under at a course that I really like.   
 Q.  I think that what you shot today may have been the lowest amateur round in a U.S. Open.  I have to look back in the history books, but I believe that might be the case.  
VIKTOR HOVLAND: Yeah, someone just told me that.   
 Q.  That being the case, what does that do for you going into your professional career?  
VIKTOR HOVLAND: I don't know.  It's obviously cool to perform such a thing.  And I hope that this will feed or I can feed off of this going into my professional career and do more things like this and be in contention of winning tournaments.   
 Q.  Can you talk about playing the last hole, walking around with your coach, and sort of what your college career has meant to you?  
VIKTOR HOVLAND: Yeah, Coach has now caddied for me at the U.S. Amateur last year, the Masters, and now this week.  And I've had the three best years of my like at Oklahoma State and I've learned so much not only as a player but as a person, got to meet so many cool people and just kind of gotten to learn about the culture around it.   
It's been really cool, though, just to have him and Coach Darr and just all the guys on the team with me, supporting me.  So that was a cool walk.   
 Q.  Are you looking forward to coming back in February as a pro and playing again?  
VIKTOR HOVLAND: Yeah, we'll see.  I don't know quite what my schedule is going to be looking like.  But I can't wait to come back here already.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT