U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 2019
Viktor Hovland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  If you could just talk about the low amateur competition and what that means to all you guys.  
VIKTOR HOVLAND: Yeah, I mean, there's a good group of amateur golfers in this field.  This week there were 15 starting off, I think, and I don't know how many made the cut, maybe three.  And obviously that means a little bit.  You want to be the low am.   
But I'm trying not to think about it too much.  I just want to play as good as I can and climb up the leaderboard as much as I can.  I mean, if I feel like I'm playing good and I just get beat, then that's how that is.   
So I'm not really thinking about it that much, but it would be sweet.   
 Q.  How much -- you obviously have a great history here from last year, but how much did that -- has that helped you so far in the Open?  
VIKTOR HOVLAND: I mean, I would say obviously a little bit.  Just when you're standing on the tee, kind of feel like, okay, this is what I did here last year.  But it's a new tournament and new week and a little different surroundings and all that.  You've still got to hit the shots.  But I do feel a little bit more comfortable around here.   
 Q.  The players I guess are a little bit different, the field is a little different.  
VIKTOR HOVLAND: Yeah, you could say that.   
 Q.  Obviously you played in tons of big events, but U.S. Open, can you just talk about the prestige of playing in that as the am?  
VIKTOR HOVLAND: Yeah, I mean, it doesn't get a whole lot bigger than this.  So to be playing as an am as well as the place where I won the Am last year is -- yeah, it's real special and it's -- yeah, I can't think of a better place to finish my last amateur torment.   
 Q.  What does it take to be successful on Pebble, on this course?  
VIKTOR HOVLAND: I mean, it is fairly simple.  I mean, the fairways are narrow and the greens are firm and fast, but you just got to hit good shots.  And it's -- you would like to kind of keep it below the hole, but some spots it's just so hard you just got to try to hit the green.  If you got it downhill putt, try to two-putt it, wait till you get a nice uphill look and kind of be aggressive in that.  You just got to execute.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT