U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2018
Viktor Hovland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. A little bit of a back-and-forth affair.  You trailed early, but it seems like you stayed with it the whole time and were able to maintain control?
VIKTOR HOVLAND: Yeah, I bogeyed No. 2 and was down early, but then I managed to birdie 3 and 4 and get back up ahead, and felt like I was in good control and missed a short birdie putt on 5 to kind of make three birdies in a row.  But after a nice eagle on 6, I felt like I was going again, but then after bogey and the double bogey on 7 and 8, I gave that back again, so it was a little back and forward.  But yeah, I managed to make a couple birdies there a little later and keep the momentum going.  Yeah, and then three bogeys in a row, as well.  So it was just back and forth the whole time.  I hit a lot of good shots but too many bad shots, too.  That kind of kept the match going longer than I would have liked.  But got the job done.
Q. Talk a little bit about the eagle on 6; how did that happen?
VIKTOR HOVLAND: Yeah, it was a pretty good win for me off the tee because I normally hit a cut, so I felt pretty comfortable just hitting a high cut up against the wind, and it hit the fairway, had about 200 yards left, just the wind was straight across, and I hit a really nice 6-iron to about four feet and made the putt, so it was good.
Q. What gives you more momentum in match play?  Obviously 3 through 6, birdie, birdie, and then an eagle two holes later, match comes back to square, and then your rough patch on the back nine that you talked about, but you still maintained either the lead, or you didn't fall behind.  Is that sort of an advantage going through that rough stretch and it still didn't cost you anything?
VIKTOR HOVLAND: Yeah, I mean, I guess.  You just want to win every single hole.  But it's nice to know that when you have it going and you kind of lose it for a couple holes that you can get it back again, that you're not just kind of, oh, I've lost the last couple holes and it's just going to get worse and worse and worse.  It's good to know that you can bounce back from that.
Q. Sure.  Different playing somebody who wasn't a teammate?
VIKTOR HOVLAND: Yeah.  It was a little different, but you're trying not to think about it too much.  You're just trying to plot your way around the course, and it just happened to be against Hayden yesterday.  So it's a little weird.  But that's how it is.  It looks like I'm going to play a really good friend of mine in the next match, so that'll be kind of weird again, but that's how it is.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT