MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 12, 2019
Viktor Hovland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. 1‑under after 36 holes, low amateur so far. Do you understand the importance of amateur golf here at Augusta National with what Mr.Jones setup all those years ago?  
VIKTOR HOVLAND: Yeah, I mean somewhat, I haven't studied up on everything about the history around here because there's a lot, but obviously with Bobby Jones being arguably the greatest amateur ever to play the game, it's cool to kind of follow in his foot steps at his place. So, yeah, it's real exciting.  
   
 Q. So when you arrived here, everybody wants to play well, but what were your realistic goals and how important is it that you made it to the weekend and are now playing for low amateur?  
VIKTOR HOVLAND: Yeah, I mean obviously you try not to think too much about the cut, but it is there, if you don't play well the first two rounds you're not going to be able to play the weekend.   
But I kind of view it as, you know, I played two rounds, there's still two more to go and, yeah, I mean, I haven't really, I don't really like to set goals, I just have been out here trying to have fun and try to play the best I can.   
   
 Q. What does it make you feel like as we stand here and talk and you just hear the roars through the pines?  
VIKTOR HOVLAND: Yeah, you can definitely hear that Tiger's playing well. That's pretty cool, that's pretty cool.   
   
 Q. Do you remember watching the Masters as a kid in Norway?  
VIKTOR HOVLAND: I do. I do. Now I never really got to watch the whole tournament Thursday to Sunday and kind of the whole 18, the last 18 holes. But kind of the most vivid memories are from when Adam Scott won last time in 2013, so that was maybe the earliest moment.  
   
 Q. Now Ortiz has also qualified for the weekend and two other players are on the cut line. Surely it will be a spirited competition for that low amateur title.   
VIKTOR HOVLAND: I mean, yeah, anything can happen and they're all good players and they're playing well, obviously, so it will be a lot of fun.   
   
 Q. And when you watched the Masters on TV did you ever dream of actually being here in this moment?  
VIKTOR HOVLAND: Yeah, I've had those thoughts but it's kind of surreal to be actually living through it.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT