CHICK-FIL-A CHARITY CHAMPIONSHIP
April 29, 2004
Becky Morgan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
NEAL REID:  67 the first round, you'll take that every week, right?
BECKY MORGAN:  Yeah, absolutely, yeah.  I had to take my chances out there but I'm happy with the 67.
NEAL REID:  What was the key, what was working for you?
BECKY MORGAN:   Just really consistent.  I think I hit 16 greens and maybe missed one or two.  Definitely had a lot of chances.
NEAL REID:  How does this round give you confidence going forward to the weekend?
BECKY MORGAN:   Yeah, it's good.  I played Vegas after I had three weeks off so it's quite nice to get off to a good start.
Q.  Talk about your year and how the season is progressing for you?
BECKY MORGAN:   Yeah, I've been happy with it, three top 20s in four events.  It's the best start I've had.  The west is usually not very good with me so I'm quite happy with it.
Q.  Is this a good all around test, this course?
BECKY MORGAN:   Yeah, definitely.  It's playing shorter today than it has for quite a while time.  The few par 5s, you're able to reach.  But you have to be pretty consistent and keep it on line.  It's a good golf course.  It played quite long but it's one of my favorites.
Q.  Inaudible?
BECKY MORGAN:   No, I just did pretty much the same training as I did the years before.  Nothing too outrageous.
Q.  Inaudible?
BECKY MORGAN:   No, back home in Wales.
Q.  Inaudible?
BECKY MORGAN:   Yeah, I went and worked with the same guy, just pretty much the same thing.
Q.  Do you like the idea, do you prefer a four round tournament to a three round tournament?
BECKY MORGAN:   Depends how I'm doing after three rounds.  (Laughter.) Yeah, this is a good tournament, it's one of my favorite courses, so I really don't mind it.  Yeah, it's good.  Four rounds is, I guess     yeah, if you play well after four rounds, I think it's a truer test of who is going to win the tournament.

I like three round events, too.  Whichever I do well in.  I've got a second last year and a third, and that would be the next step up for me and build a lot for confidence being at the top of the leaderboard now.
Q.  Is there a mental barrier to winning, beyond just being able to play well?  Lorie Kane was saying earlier that now she has let herself go; is there a mental barrier to winning, as well?
BECKY MORGAN:   I'm not sure.  I'm sure there is.  I've put myself in position a few times and it gets pretty nerve wracking.  Yeah, I think now, that would be my next step, and I guess I'll let you know if there's a mental break.  Right now, I just feel that would be the next progression for me.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT