NAVISTAR LPGA CLASSIC
September 16, 2011
Becky Morgan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Great day yesterday where you felt like you were able to kick it in after a while; today a bogey to start, but then you made a lot of birdies kind of coming in. 
 BECKY MORGAN: Yeah, it was kind of a similar start today. Just hit a couple not-great shots early on, and then actually I got up and down the first two and the three-putted my third hole. 
 Sort of came back a couple holes later and made a birdie, and then started hitting it well again. Made some good putts. I actually left a few out there today. I'm not complaining, but I probably putted better yesterday. I still putted well today. 

 Q. Must be happy over the first two days with the way you're playing. Like you said, putting well yesterday and maybe not making as many putts, but still being able to put together a solid round?
 BECKY MORGAN: Yes, I mean, this is historically not one of my favorite golf courses, but I can plot my way around it. I think it favors longer hitters who can take it over corners and stuff. I've made my way around and made some good putts and left myself in some good places and used the slopes on the greens when I needed to to get it close. 

 Q. Considering it is a long-hitters course, are you a little bit surprised to find yourself up at there at the top of the leaderboard?
 BECKY MORGAN: Honestly, I think anyone who is putting it well and hitting it however far you can hit it can shoot low numbers. I mean, I know that if I hit it 40 yards further it would be a lot easier. 
 But I've left myself some, you know, in the fairway and just kind of used the slopes to get close to the pins. If I can't get close to it, I just kind of take my medicine and hit it to the middle and two-putt and go to the next.

 Q. We had talked a lot about the wind yesterday. How much better were the conditions this morning?
 BECKY MORGAN: Oh, you couldn't get a more perfect day than today. I would imagine the scores will get pretty low. I mean, it's like mid-70s and no wind, so it's perfect.

 Q. How does it feel being the leader right now?
 BECKY MORGAN: Yeah, good. I mean, I didn't play particularly well -- I've been streaky this year. I didn't play well last week and then played well in Canada, so my finish in Canada was good for me. I didn't have a great Sunday, the conditions were tough, but I played really well for three days there, so it kind of boosted my confidence. 
 I'm happy where I am. I am pretty sure I won't be leading at the end of the day, but it's nice to be there right now.

 Q. You never know. And position tomorrow look good, too? How does it look for the rest of the tournament, your position at -8? 
 BECKY MORGAN: Yeah, it's great. You know, if someone handed me -8 after two rounds I would have take it. Just trying to play well this week to get into the Japanese tournament. I'm not going to just take each shot as it comes, but that is kind of obviously my goal and stuff, and get into the titleholders, because I'm not in that right now. 
 Just hopefully more of the same this weekend. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT