MICHELOB ULTRA OPEN AT KINGSMILL
May 11, 2007
Becky Morgan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Becky, you had a fantastic round, talk about your round a little bit and we'll go over your score card.   
 BECKY MORGAN:  Sure, just really steady.  I don't think I missed a fairway in two days and I hit a lot of greens.  I holed some pretty good putts the last couple of days, so that brings a lot of satisfaction.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  You started on 10.  So No. 11?   
 BECKY MORGAN:  11 just hit 3-wood off the tee and wedge in there and probably holed a 20-footer.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  How far were you with the wedge?   
 BECKY MORGAN:  I think it was 119.   
 12, I hit 6-iron on 12 and I hit it pretty close.  I think it was eight feet.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  How far out?   
 BECKY MORGAN:  165.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  14, your only bogey for the day.   
 BECKY MORGAN:  Yeah, misjudged the wind.  The pin was back there and I was just trying to play to the center of the green and I didn't hit it good and took my medicine and 2-putted from probably 40 feet.   
 15, just laid up to a good number for me and gripped a little wedge in there, 109.  I think I hit it to five feet.   
 17, 6-iron to about -- I think that was six, eight feet.   
 18, I hit an 8-iron.  I actually got a little fortunate.  Just kicked off nicely to the right down to the pin.  I think that was about 140.   
 No. 1, that was another 6-iron.  I think that was 12 feet from about 166.   
 No. 5, that was another 6-iron and knocked it to 12 feet again.   
  
  Q.  Do you think as good as the round was, what did you do on the par 5s on the front?  Did you have some chances there to go even lower?   
 BECKY MORGAN:  Yeah, I didn't hit particularly good wedges into either one of them.  The first par 5, I probably had a 10, 12-footer which I actually thought I had made, and it just slipped left.  But No. 7, I didn't hit a very good shot and I just hit it short.   
  
  Q.  Did you get on in two on any of those?   
 BECKY MORGAN:  No.  No. 7 would probably be the only one that I would ever have a go at.  I'm not one of the longer hitters out here.  So the others, I just lay up to a number and just try and hit wedge in there.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about how you've been playing coming into the weekend and just what you'd like to get out of this event?   
 BECKY MORGAN:  Yeah, up until now, this year's been a little frustrating.  I started the season striking the ball really well and lost my putting, which is probably the strongest part of my game, and then the last couple of weeks putting has come good again, and I finally put it all together.   
 So it's nice to be up there again.  I have had a dry spell for a couple of years.   
  
  Q.  Was this a round where you kind of built off the momentum from each time you got a birdie; did you kind of build off that?   
 BECKY MORGAN:  I actually really like this golf course and I just kind of did the whole one shot at a time thing and had fun with my caddie.   
 I birdied some holes out here that for myself would consider somewhat harder holes, so it's been quite satisfying.   
  
  Q.  You said you had fun with your caddie; for instance?   
 BECKY MORGAN:  Well, she's very -- this is her third week on the bag and she's just fun.  We just kind of goof around and she's great, laid back.  It's nice just to talk about something other than golf.   
  
  Q.  The scores here are markedly lower than they have been in the past.  What about the conditions out there have made it so vulnerable?   
 BECKY MORGAN:  Yeah, well for me, I mean yesterday afternoon, for an afternoon round, the wind was pretty calm and it was a perfect day.  Then obviously morning rounds are usually pretty calm.  I mean, the weather's been fabulous.  The greens were really good this morning.  Yesterday probably had the worst greens of the day but today they were rolling great, and the course is in really good shape.  The wind is not a huge factor and in the past we've had some pretty horrendous weather here.  I think just the general weather makes everyone feel better, too.   
  
  Q.  What's your hunch about where you'll stand about the end of the day?  Do you think 9 is a couple back?  Do you think you're still in the lead?   
 BECKY MORGAN:  No, I don't think I'll be in the lead.  I don't know what the weather is supposed to do this afternoon but it's very scoreable out there.  So I'm going to guess I'll be three or four back.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  What's the name of your caddie?   
 BECKY MORGAN:  Sue Horton.   
  
  Q.  When you were saying that Sue talks about things other than golf; give us a for instance, off the subject?   
 BECKY MORGAN:  Just TV shows and silly stuff like that.  I was telling her all the questions, "Are You Smart than a 5th Grader," and I'm not, which I'm not, so we just kind of talk about stuff away from golf, just to keep it light.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Becky, great round.  Congratulations.  Good luck tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT