U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 30, 2006
Becky Morgan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Becky, how did the course play today after all that rain?
 BECKY MORGAN:  It was obviously very wet in places.  I found some places that were shorter, but there's a lot of water out there.  There's a lot of mud on the ball, it's tough.
Q.  Short game good today, chipping, pitching?
 BECKY MORGAN:  I hit quite a few greens.  It was okay.  I was pretty consistent.  I didn't miss too many.  If I did, I left it in the right places and left myself the easy chip, so it was pretty good.
Q.  You had a really good round, the first round of the Women's Open, and I know you're disappointed with the bogey on the last hole.
 BECKY MORGAN:  Yeah, I hit a pretty decent tee shot    it's a long hole for me.  I had so much mud on the ball, it wasn't worth going for the green.  I thought I had a good putt, but had a big horseshoe.  It was a bit disappointing, but I'm happy with 70.
Q.  They said this was going to be a bomber's course.
 BECKY MORGAN:  No, they're pretty generous to us on some holes today; they moved some tees up.  So some of the holes that I    18, for example, I haven't been able to get there this week, today I did.  12, they moved the tee up.  I could go over both of those bunkers; the last three days I've had to lay up.  That made quite a big difference to me.
Q.  Can you talk about your season a bit?
 BECKY MORGAN:  Pretty inconsistent.  I've had, I guess, one week, Atlantic City I was pretty happy with.  The rest I've had some good rounds and kind of struggled at times.  I'm hoping this will be the kick start to my season.
Q.  Can I ask what you did yesterday?
 BECKY MORGAN:  I warmed up about four times, had breakfast twice, lunch, and then I went home.  But they couldn't have done anything else.  I couldn't really go anywhere, so I just hung around for the half hour updates.  It was pretty boring, but we survived.
Q.  Jane Park, who finished just ahead of you, said she thought that day yesterday where she thought everybody just kind of bummed around and tried to pass the time made her relax a little bit?
 BECKY MORGAN:  Yeah, I could see that maybe, just kind of    I mean, to be honest with you, I'm glad at the end we didn't go out, because we'd have been hanging around for eight hours.  It would have been pretty unfair for us.  You kind of had the nerves yesterday morning, but you never went out.  I guess it felt like round 2 today, so I can see that maybe.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT