CHICK-FIL-A CHARITY CHAMPIONSHIP
May 2, 2004
Becky Morgan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Another 68 today and second place finish, can you just talk about how you feel and, I know you wanted that putt on 18 to tie?
BECKY MORGAN:   Well, I think at the beginning of the week, if you'd have told me that I would have a chance to win, I'd have been really happy.  I'd put myself in position a few times before.  I did feel comfortable over it.  I just pulled it a little bit.  I'm not going to beat myself over that.
Q.  How far would you say it was?
BECKY MORGAN:   Probably six, eight foot.
Q.  Overall, do you feel good with the way you played?
BECKY MORGAN:   The second round, I didn't hit the ball particularly well but got it around.  The rest of the week, I made quite a lot of birdies and I'm pretty happy.
Q.  Do you think that will help you confidence wise going forward to next week?
BECKY MORGAN:   Yeah, I love this course, and next week is a good week for me, too.  Looking forward to it.
Q.  On that last putt, it looked like maybe it just went straight; do you think you pulled it or did you just misread it?
BECKY MORGAN:   I had it inside left.  I think I just pulled it slightly.  I felt pretty good over it.  I wasn't particularly nervous all day.  I played really well.  I'm happy that I had a chance.  It wasn't the best putt I had ever hit.
Q.  What's going through a players's mind, thinking this is it, win No. 1, for a playoff, is it hard to jettison all that from your mind and focus the way it was, like a putt on Friday or Thursday?
BECKY MORGAN:   Yeah, I guess so, obviously, I knew it was to tie Jennifer, so, there's always more pressure on it.  I putted well all week, and I was pretty surprised I missed it.  I guess that's the way it goes.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
BECKY MORGAN:   Yeah, she's a really good player.  She's good fun, so I'm happy for her.
Q.  Is this something you feel like you can build on, that you were right there, tough course, tough field, six feet away from a playoff to win, is this something you can go, "Hey, I can play with these people; I can win"?
BECKY MORGAN:   Yeah, I'm going to take a positive from it.  I shot 68, at the end of the day, I'd certainly take it.  I played really well this week, so I'm disappointed, but overall I'll be really happy about it.
Q.  How tough were the conditions, it was raining, windy, sunny, rainy, the greens must have been  softer?
BECKY MORGAN:   Yeah,  obviously they were more receptive, so you could fly at more pins.  I'm going with longer clubs than most people.  In a way it was tough, because off the tee it wasn't going as far as it was going, and on some of the greens it was quite nice because it was sitting down.
Q.  You knew you had to have that to force a playoff; what was your mindset standing over that putt?
BECKY MORGAN:   It was pretty much, I knew I had to make it.  My caddie and I did everything that we usually do, I've been putting well this week, but I did slightly pull that one.  So I guess it's just one of these things.
Q.  Inaudible?
BECKY MORGAN:   Yeah, I mean, it was    it was     I said to my caddie on the side of the green, I said, "This is fun, isn't it?"  Seriously.  He said, "This is what it's all about," which it is.  I'm probably more nervous than I've been for the rest of the week, but I didn't feel like it hurt me in any way.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT