WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2006
Richard Bloomfield
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT










 Q.  Third time lucky at Wimbledon. 
 RICHARD BLOOMFIELD:  Yeah, definitely third time lucky.  Not last year, but two years ago, I had a tough draw against López.  I played quite well in that.  The year before I played Antony Dupuis.  I thought I had a chance there, just didn't quite happen. 
 Yeah, third time lucky.  Pretty pleased. 

 Q.  Seemed easy for you, Richard. 
 RICHARD BLOOMFIELD:  Yeah, well, I just went out there and played.  I mean, I know he's a clay courter.  I've never seen him before.  I guess he plays most of the tournaments in South America, coming from Argentina.  I just went out there and played my game, the serve-volley game. 
 Yeah, just played really well. 

 Q.  What has changed from before that's allowed you to finally win one here? 
 RICHARD BLOOMFIELD:  Well, no disrespect to him, but being a clay courter, being on grass, I feel as if I've got more of a chance.  Against other guys, they prefer the grass, they play well on it.  But I felt coming into the match I've had a good grass court season, lost some tight matches against some guys who were coming through.  But, yeah, I'm really pleased. 

 Q.  Most significant win of your career, would you say? 
 RICHARD BLOOMFIELD:  Yeah, it probably is one of the best wins I've had.  Any win in a Grand Slam for me, my ranking, you've got to be very happy. 
 I know I'm not the kind of person to show that, but inside I'm very happy.  Just looking forward to the next match. 

 Q.  Do you bottle things up? 
 RICHARD BLOOMFIELD:  Well, inside I'm happy.  I mean, sometimes talking to people who I don't know so much, I don't really show that.  I'm pretty low-key.  I wouldn't say shy, but just quiet and just get on with it.  I don't really like the attention. 
 Yeah, I mean -- 

 Q.  You'll get it now. 
 RICHARD BLOOMFIELD:  Yeah, I know, but there we go (smiling).  Obviously, whatever comes along, just have to handle. 

 Q.  You have Haas potentially in the next round.  How do you fancy that? 
 RICHARD BLOOMFIELD:  Yeah, it's going to be a great match, someone of that level.  I think his best ranking has been No. 3 in the world.  But he's been injured. 
 The last year or so, since he's been back, he's been playing really well.  He's getting back up there.  Yeah, I'm not sure if he's won yet or not.  But, yeah, it will be a great match. 

 Q.  Did you look at the draw and actually think that if you won one, I might... 
 RICHARD BLOOMFIELD:  The more matches you win, the more chances you're going to play a seed.  But, no, to get to the top, it's all about winning matches, isn't it, really?  Obviously, I saw Tommy Haas' name just above me, you can't really miss a name like that.  I think above that is Roger Federer, and Tim Henman, and Richard Gasquet. 

 Q.  Do you mind being labeled a brave Brit and that thing? 
 RICHARD BLOOMFIELD:  A little bit.  I mean, we all try to do our best.  You know, maybe our best is like 150 in the world.  But we try to get up there.  I mean, not much to do.  You just work hard week in, week out, just see where it takes us really.  I mean, no, we all work hard. 

 Q.  Do you feel your game is improving at the moment, that you're on an up-curve? 
 RICHARD BLOOMFIELD:  Yeah, definitely.  I mean, last year I finished the rankings at 370.  2005, I finished the rankings at 370.  It was 2004, sorry.  2005, I finished at 290.  I feel as if I'm 260 now and I'll probably go to about 230 after this win.  Depends how I get on on Wednesday or Thursday. 
 But, yeah, my ranking keeps going all the way.  Hopefully I can just push it into maybe the 150s and obviously the top hundred. 

 Q.  Were you tempted to put a bet on yourself? 
 RICHARD BLOOMFIELD:  Definitely not, no.  I'm not that kind of person.  I'd actually hardly had a bet in my life.  Don't know how to play poker.  So, yeah, like I say, I'm not into that kind of stuff. 

 Q.  Do you feel there's pressure on you to justify the wildcard selection? 
 RICHARD BLOOMFIELD:  Yeah, I mean, it's always difficult being a wildcard in a big tournament as this.  This is probably the best tournament in the world.  But you just have to get on with it.  The criteria was there this year.  For me to be inside 275, I made that criteria.  The All England Club, the LTA, gave me a wildcard.  I'm very thankful for that.  That's all I can say really, yeah. 

 Q.  Are you feeling more confident in yourself with these sort of good results, that you can now push on? 
 RICHARD BLOOMFIELD:  Yeah, I mean, I've had some close results with guys around the 150, 125 mark at Queen's and Nottingham.  Yeah, I feel as if I just need that one little win.  I had a good win today.  I was pleased to get through today.  Now I can definitely get into the challengers consistently.  Now hopefully I can just get winning on that circuit and maybe qualify for a few tour events. 
 We'll have to see.  We'll have to see how my game goes.  Hopefully I can push on. 

 Q.  Was this your first win on the main tour? 
 RICHARD BLOOMFIELD:  Yeah, I think it is.  I mean, I had a close match in Washington against Arnaud Clement.  I lost 7-6 in the third set.  But, yeah, I think it is.  Yeah, third time lucky at Wimbledon (smiling). 

 Q.  Do you know if you'll be playing tomorrow? 
 RICHARD BLOOMFIELD:  I'm not sure yet.  I don't know.  I'm guessing maybe, considering I was supposed to play on Monday.  But I'll have to speak to the tournament organizer and see if I am playing. 

 Q.  What will you do between now and then?  How are you going to spend your time? 
 RICHARD BLOOMFIELD:  Eat quite a lot, get a massage, just rest up really.  Probably do a lot more of this (referring to press). 

 Q.  Staying with other players? 
 RICHARD BLOOMFIELD:  No, I'm staying with a family from the Surbiton Trophy, down in Surbiton.  Chill out there. 

 Q.  How do you chill out? 
 RICHARD BLOOMFIELD:  Music, TV.  The World Cup is on tonight.  That's about it really. 

 Q.  What happened last year?  Is it that you didn't qualify? 
 RICHARD BLOOMFIELD:  Yeah, I mean, I lost in the playoff.  I didn't get into qualifying for Wimbledon.  It was disappointing.  But having said that, my ranking wasn't good enough to get into anything.  Just get on with it really. 

 Q.  Do you know what you were doing this time last year? 
 RICHARD BLOOMFIELD:  I came down because my coach coached a couple of girls.  She was playing.  I came down to watch that for a couple days, started training a lot, just seeing what the top guys do more, just trying to put it into my game. 

 Q.  Extra motivation being a player this year? 
 RICHARD BLOOMFIELD:  Yeah, a little bit.  You sort of feel as if you should be there.  I mean, my ranking at the moment doesn't bring me into that.  It's lucky that obviously we get the wildcards.  But, yeah, we just try and do our best, just keep going up the rankings really. 

 Q.  Presumably you expected to be going home today.  Had you made any plans for the rest of the week? 
 RICHARD BLOOMFIELD:  Well, no, I've got a tournament next week in Dublin.  That's how confident I am for making the second week (smiling). 
 But, no, just see who I draw this week.  I've won my first match.  Obviously, Tommy Haas is going to be a very tough match.  Hopefully I can put up a good show.  We'll see what happens on Wednesday or Thursday. 

 Q.  You're training down in the west country now.  How long have you been there? 
 RICHARD BLOOMFIELD:  I've been down in Chatham for probably a year with my coach, a couple of girls who he coaches.  It's pretty tough for hitting partners.  I usually get the hitting when I go to the tournaments just prior to the actual tournament starting.  I go there for like four days before, you know, just to get the practice in there. 
 Yeah, I'm working hard down there.  But I think the higher you go, the more higher-level practice you need.  I should think after this I'll be looking to try and get some practice maybe in America or maybe down at Roehampton.  We'll see how that new center goes. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT