BREEDERS' CUP WORLD THOROUGHBRED CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 1, 2013
Dave Kenney
Glen Sorgenstein
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:     We've got Glenn Sorgenstein with us.   Glenn is W.C. Racing, essentially.   And Glenn, congratulations.   Big, big effort by Goldencents today.   Thank you so much.   Let's go to the first the decision to run in this race when you could have been one of the favorites in the Sprint as well.   Why did you end up in this race? 
GLEN SORGENSTEIN:   Simple, we spoke to Rafael after the last race, we went six and a half furlongs.   Said, Rafael, what do you think?   He said, Glenn send him longer, send him longer.   Pretty simple.   Not a lot of science here. 
THE MODERATOR:   Dave Kenney is here now.

Q.   Does this make up for the disappointments in the Preakness and the Kentucky Derby and the 3 second‑place finishes? 
GLEN SORGENSTEIN:   Yeah, you were there.   The Kentucky Derby, we drew a line through it; it was an off‑track.   Conditions just weren't suited to him.   We gave it our best, but it just wasn't the right thing.   Preakness, I think being away from home he just needed that good Southern California cooking and needed to come back home.   He was homesick.   He had been on the road for quite a while. 
So we knew when we got him back to Southern California, he ran great at Del Mar, ran great the last time here at Santa Anita.   We knew this was setting up right for us. 
THE MODERATOR:   What was Doug's reaction?   I knew he had to get out of the press conference? 
GLEN SORGENSTEIN:   Doug is the most positive, greatest trainer in the world.   Doug will text me at 5:30 in the morning every morning and just tell me how he ate up overnight, how he's feeling good, how he's looking good.   So Doug O'Neill is just the best.   He's the love of my life.   He's a great guy.

Q.   What are your hopes for this horse as a 4‑year‑old next year? 
GLEN SORGENSTEIN:   We think it's unlimited.   We really think he's going to come into his own as a 4‑year‑old.   We'll pick our spots.   We'll group together after this race and figure out what we're going to do.   I don't see anything happening till late January, give him some time off, well deserved time off.   He's raced hard, he's worked hard.   He's worked out well, and he always comes back to the track with the same demeanor. 
THE MODERATOR:   Dave, Glenn was talking about not losing faith since the Santa Anita Derby.   He's obviously run some big races, but hasn't won for a while.   Your feelings coming into this race? 
DAVE KENNEY:   I think it was a little like when we ran in the Santa Anita Derby where we had lost the race before.   So we've had 3 seconds in grade ones coming into this race.   So we had high expectations, as Glenn said.   But we weren't positive we were going to win.   Same kind of feeling we had before the Santa Anita Derby. 
I was looking at the fractions and there it was again, some 44s.   I was thinking, oh, God, we're going to get caught.   But he stuck it through.   I think a mile is a really good distance for Goldencents.   I think we could be one of the top Dirt Milers in the country. 
THE MODERATOR:   I'm sure Coach Pitino would have preferred to be here today.   Do you know where he is right now? 
GLEN SORGENSTEIN:   Probably Louisville coaching pass‑to‑this‑guy, pass‑to‑that‑guy, you shoot and then hustle down court. 
DAVE KENNEY:   I'm almost positive though he had a wager on the race. 
GLEN SORGENSTEIN:   Right.

Q.   How about you, Dave? 
DAVE KENNEY:   I had a small one. 
GLEN SORGENSTEIN:   Yeah, one other thing, just two things.   Like this race, my dad brought me into horse racing, Sal Sorgenstein, he's up there in heaven.   He left us a year ago November 3rd, and Dad, I love you.   I sent you a Facebook message; I hope you read it. 
The other thing is to the ownership group and Tim Yakteen and Points Offthebench.   He was our biggest competitor, and he kind of set us up for this race, and Points Offthebench, we're praying for you too, and do a good job up in horsey heaven, boy, because we love you too.
DAVE KENNEY:   Yeah, that was a tough one.

Q.   Do you start to lose a little faith at Kentucky Derby time on this horse? 
GLEN SORGENSTEIN:   Honestly, we didn't.   We knew it was an off track.   We knew he was away from home.   Some of you that are sitting out here, I told you, he was setting up fine for the Derby.   If we didn't have track turned into peanut butter as Doug called it, it just wasn't for us. 
Kevin, I thought did a great job in kind of reserving him, holding him back so he didn't spend him off on that off track.   Preakness, like I said earlier, I think he was just away from home.   He needed a home‑cooked meal and Santa Anita, Del Mar is where it's at for him. 
So I didn't lose faith at all.   I've been out to every one of his workouts.   Dave's out here.   Josh is out here.   We're all out here because we believe in this horse.   We really believe in him.   We have a connection that we know he's the real thing and the best miler out there.   You look at his record now and Santa Anita Derby. 
I mean, Breeders' Cup Mile, let's not forget the Delta Millions.   I mean, Horse of the Year to us. 
DAVE KENNEY:   I agree. 
GLEN SORGENSTEIN:   It's a nice body of work.   If you were an actor and you had that body of work, you're winning the Academy Award.   I don't care who is out there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT