UNIVERSITY OF KANSAS FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 13, 2019
Carter Stanley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Kansas - 48, Boston College - 24
Q. After that first interception, you were 12 for 12 in completions. How did you flush that mistake out of your head and regain your composure?
CARTER STANLEY: Just these coaches do a great job of getting us great looks. You know, it's the same thing this whole team had to do this past weekend. We had to flush it. We last weekend had a disappointing result, but we knew it was back to work the next day. I'm extremely thankful for these coaches and the looks that they gave us.
Q. As effective as the run game was, how did that help you be able to distribute the ball?
CARTER STANLEY: I mean, that's huge. And it's same thing with the other way, the pass game helps the run game. Our running backs, our O-line did a great job tonight. Our receivers made incredible plays. Just really proud of our offense and defense and special teams, as well.
Q. When did you decide to -- the keep and leadership --
CARTER STANLEY: The keep and leadership -- honestly I had a dream about it last night. But I also saw on film that that safety likes to tackle low. It's something I did my senior year of high school, and you know, I just -- the moment was right and I did it.
Q. How did the short week of preparation really help you guys to get rid of the bad thoughts from last week?
CARTER STANLEY: Think I, yeah, just the focus had to be there. You know, we had no choice but to focus up on every single day, every single rep. It was really important for us. The guys did a great job.
Q. Can you talk about the way you're receivers -- a lot of guys catching touchdowns for the first time this season and their careers, and what it means for them to be able to stick their chest out?
CARTER STANLEY: Yeah, phenomenal. Those guys bust their butt year-round. You know, it's incredible with how much work they have put in and just to go out and see a show on a night like tonight, it means a lot.
Q. And how does it springboard you guys going into conference play?
CARTER STANLEY: Yeah, it's big time. We needed to get this win, and the manner that we did it was huge. Really proud of our guys, and you know, we've got a big week coming up with West Virginia.
Q. Speaking of flushing it, you threw that early pick and then darned near perfect after that. How did you kind of zone in after that point?
CARTER STANLEY: I mean, it was just -- it was unfortunate. The look, it was kind of a 50/50 look with the guy I was reading but honestly, it was the ball came out of my hand kind of weird.
My teammates are incredibly supportive one-to-one on the sideline. We know you're fine. We're all good. I just had to flush it and move on and those coaches put us in some great looks.
Q. How do you explain a flip of one week to another? You were very down last week obviously and then you guys put up 530 or whatever yards today. How do you explain the one-week offensive turnaround?
CARTER STANLEY: Just everyone buying in and focusing up. We had to with a short week and I'm extremely proud of the guys for the focus and preparation that they had.
Q. The running backs had big games but also means your defensive line does, as well. Describe what you saw in the lanes they were creating for your runners today?
CARTER STANLEY: It was a team effort all around, and you know, I'm so proud of our offensive line. They were incredible tonight, run and pass, and same thing with the running backs complemented the receivers and the receivers complemented the running backs. On the play right before the half, AP sprinted to his receiver like 60, 70 yards down the field before the defensive back even looked back. Stuff like that, it's huge and just our guys playing with one another.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT