MISSOURI VALLEY CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 8, 2014
Anthony Beane
Barry Hinson
Tyler Smithpeters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   Tyler Smithpeters and Anthony Beane are the Salukis with us. 
COACH HINSON:   I'll make this brief.   Congratulations to Indiana State and to Wichita State.   Couldn't have two finer teams representing our conference in a conference championship.   The semifinals is exactly what I thought it would be.   I knew this game would go down to the wire, no question in my mind, and it certainly didn't leave me any surprises here.   I'll let these guys answer your questions. 

Q.   Anthony, Barry called a time‑out about 11 minutes to go and was pretty ticked off that‑‑ about the putback with Gant, and you guys seemed to play them even the rest of the way.   How much did that get your attention? 
ANTHONY BEANE:   It definitely got our attention.   Earlier before that, I felt we were just out there.   We weren't playing defense like we were earlier in the game.   He definitely got our attention after that.   I thought we came back out and answered what he was talking about.

Q.   For both the student‑athletes, can you just talk about their defense.   It seemed like nothing came easy for you guys on the offensive end today. 
TYLER SMITHPETERS:   Yeah, you've just got to give Indiana State credit for that.   They prepared well for it, and it was tough. 
ANTHONY BEANE:   Yeah, their defense was‑‑ it was great.   They were definitely prepared.   But I felt that it was just‑‑ we had just as much to do with it.   We took quick shots.   It wasn't a reflection of yesterday when we were out and sharing the ball and things like that.   It showed later on in the game.

Q.   Anthony, if you could just talk about your tournament overall and trying to get a spark tonight when it was so hard, for one or the other team, to get some momentum today. 
ANTHONY BEANE:   Can you repeat that for me?

Q.   Can you talk about your tournament overall and then today trying to get some momentum in a game that was really kind of ragged today for both teams?
ANTHONY BEANE:   I felt as a team, we did a good job as a team.   Still we expected more out of ourselves. 
As far as the momentum part, it was hard, but like I was saying, I felt that we were all just taking quick shots.   Me especially, I had some quick shots I took where I could have ran the offense, things like that.   It was definitely hard to get momentum going as the game went on.

Q.   Can you guys both just talk about‑‑ you're disappointed you didn't make the finals tomorrow, and that's sure a long way from where you guys were in January.   Just talk about how that's kind of changed your expectations. 
TYLER SMITHPETERS:   Yeah, we turned a lot of heads starting in February.   So our goal was to get to nine games and play on the Friday night.   I mean, we did that, but for us, we had more‑‑ farther expectations than what we did.   I mean, it just‑‑ it's tough. 
ANTHONY BEANE:   Just like Ty said, our goal was to get to nine, but as a team, we started feeling‑‑ we started getting better each and every day, and everybody was just motivated and things like that.   When we got here and we got the first win, you could just tell everybody was ready to go.   Unfortunately, Indiana State, they played great and got the win today. 
THE MODERATOR:   Gentlemen, thank you very much for your time.   Congratulations on your season.   We're going to stay here with Coach Hinson just a while longer.

Q.   Coach, just talk about the time‑out with 11 minutes to go.   What did you say to them, and how did you get their attention then? 
COACH HINSON:   I'll have to paraphrase what I said.   We just got our tails whooped on an offensive rebound.   We had just come out of a time‑out where we challenged our guys for effort and energy, and we didn't have it.   I just felt like we needed to do something different, something drastic. 
I was really, really upset, and I portrayed it, and I told them about it, and I challenged them, and I felt like for the most part we had better energy and better effort from that point on, but we didn't play any smarter than what we had earlier.

Q.   Can you talk about the offensive struggles?   How much of it was you?   How much of it was their defense? 
COACH HINSON:   You know, Les, that's kind of a tough question because you end up sounding like an ass if you answer it any way but to give Indiana State credit.   I do think they had a lot to do with it. 
I heard Greg yelling, "Cushion, cushion, cushion," the entire game, but we took bad shots today, and we reverted back to how we played in the nonconference and really, really wasn't happy about that. 
Hopefully, we can use this as a teaching point in how to get better, and I think we have to.   That's one of the things we talked about in the locker room.   We never stop teaching, and that's one of the things we felt like we needed to continue to do when we got off the floor. 
We told them at halftime, "You are fighting us.   You are fighting us.   Will you just give in and do what we're asking to you do," and we just‑‑ I kept asking my coaches, "What do we do?   Suggestions?"   They said, "Just fight them back, Coach.   Fight them back."   That's why I called the time‑out at the 11‑minute mark. 
The encouraging thing is 83 percent of the rebounds today were by our underclassmen and 80 percent of points came from our underclassmen.   So I do like‑‑ we got a little bit of a glimpse of our future, and I do like that.

Q.   Coach, on the last play of the game, was it the plan to get Jackson the ball? 
COACH HINSON:   We had three options, and he's the final option.   Got to give‑‑ now, I will tell you this.   Indiana State did a great job.   They switched five, did a good job, and they even switched a switch switch, which they were pretty good at it.   Greg had them ready to go, and they really did a good job on it. 
I thought we were going to get a better look.   We turned down a better look for a worse look, but the play worked.   I mean, it worked.   We were going to get a decent shot and just kind of made a bad decision.

Q.   Barry, can you just talk about the evolution of Anthony Beane's game and how much he kind of carried you today when Des just was not into it today. 
COACH HINSON:   I think everybody wants to talk about Anthony scoring, but I think the thing that we're most proud of him is, when we lost our starting point guard, it took us a while, but we finally got him to talk and to lead and to be that guy out on the floor, to challenge guys on and off the floor.   I think he's done that.
Certainly, his offensive game has improved.   He's right.   Even Anthony today made some bad decisions, but Anthony‑‑ Whitey Herzog used to say this all the time.   You've got to play small ball, and you've got to hit singles.   Most of our guys today tried to hit home runs all day long, and you can't‑‑ you just can't do that in the Valley, and you certainly can't do it against any of Greg's teams because they're so well coached.   You've got to play small ball, and we did not do that at all.

Q.   Barry, can you talk about the clock delay at the beginning and how much of an influence, if it did at all, the clock did? 
COACH HINSON:   No, it's fine.   Jack came by and apologized.   It's amazing to me that you're playing in a game that hosts the National Hockey League, and you can't have a shot clock that works.   That's not the Missouri Valley Conference's fault, it's not.   It's the building's fault. 
It didn't have an effect on the game, but the professionalism of that at this level, there's no excuse for that, none.   So, sorry.   I've had my ass eat out this year.   You know what?   Shot clock guys, you get your ass eat out today because that's not right and it's not the Valley's fault.   Who runs this building?   Got to take care of that stuff. 
Hopefully, it will work tomorrow when we're on national television on CBS.   I think I'd fly a frickin' part in tonight.   Good gosh, you guys just got me going.

Q.   You talked about small ball.   Can you talk about you didn't do some of the little things, you missed a bunch of layups, a couple right at crunch time and also struggled again at the free‑throw line. 
COACH HINSON:   Yeah, that's been a problem for us this year, and really today, in all honesty, it was everything.   Anthony, I think, went 1 for 4.   Yeah, he went 1 for 4, and Desmar missed two.   You know, Jalen has struggled from the free‑throw line all year long.   We had to make a decision there at the end of the game because we knew Greg would foul him.   We did miss the bunny.   I think it would have tied the game, is that right?   We missed a wide open layup, and that's where we tied the game. 
That's where we learn, young guys learn.   Use them as teaching moments, and we try to do that.

Q.   Coach, what can you say about Des's performance today?   He had a decent game yesterday but wasn't really a factor today? 
COACH HINSON:   In Des's defense, he tried to help us today.   He forced a lot of shots, took a lot of bad shots.   Give credit to Indiana State.   When you go get a double double, there's a good chance you're going to have a target on your back the next day.   That target jersey's pretty heavy. 
The one thing we kept talking about on the time‑out was trust your teammates.   We didn't do that today.

Q.   Barry, certainly, your future's got to look pretty good with four potential starters and how well your freshmen have played.   What makes you excited for next season? 
COACH HINSON:   I'll tell you why I'm excited.   I'm excited to be a Saluki.   That's what makes me excited.   We're about to have a team come out of here‑‑ regardless of whether they win tomorrow, they're going to be a Number 1 seed.   Put that on national media, all right?   That's how strong I feel about it. 
We're going to have the Number 1 seed come out of our conference, and I get to coach in this league, and I get to coach at a school that has tradition‑rich basketball, and we've got a bunch of young little stinkers coming back, and I like it.   I'm excited about that.

Q.   Coach, could you talk about your team as far as the disappointment level that you didn't make the championship game after where you were in early January. 
COACH HINSON:   Well, Darren, college basketball is highs and lows.   Needless to say, I'm one of those guys.   I'm a high guy, and I'm a low guy.   That's just part of it.   You've got to get used to it. 
If you would have told us in January we were going to have a chance to play in the conference championship game, I'd have probably said, "You need to go get drug tested."   You know what, we played well down the stretch.   We did.   Proud of our guys.   Pretty good for a group of mama boys, wasn't it?

Q.   Coach, to go back to the game real quick, you were able to keep Odum relatively silent the entire first half.   What do you think the difference between the halves was where he came out? 
COACH HINSON:   You guys saw it.   They blew the whistle every time he had the ball in his hands.   They shot 15 free throws. 
THE MODERATOR:   And that will do it. 
COACH HINSON:   This is a moment when you say I've learned my lesson. 
Hey, I appreciate it.   Have fun tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT