AL DIVISION SERIES: RED SOX v ANGELS
October 7, 2004
Bronson Arroyo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  What are you anticipating tomorrow night?
 
BRONSON ARROYO:  As far as how the game is going to go?  It's going to be like any other game.  
 
Q.  Tomorrow night's game -- inaudible? 
 
BRONSON ARROYO:  You know, I don't think my career is depending on this start.  Maybe my -- you know, people look at big games and when you get a reputation for games like that, that's why Curt Schilling has the reputation that he does, someone who steps up in big games.  Hopefully tomorrow, I will, too.  Obviously if I go in there tomorrow and get bombed and give up seven runs, that will put a little stain on you.  But all you do is go out and do what you do all year as best you can.  
 
Q.  The fact that you guys are up 2-0, will it be a situation that you try to forget what the whole series is, or will you use that calm you down knowing that you are in charge of the series?
 
BRONSON ARROYO:  I think it's definitely going to calm me down personally.  You now, if you're down 2-0 and it's a do-or-die game like it is for them, it's going to allow me to go out and try to be aggressive early in the game and just try to establish the strike zone.  And just like being up ten in a baseball game, you don't have to worry about being so picky with shots or whatever.  I can go out and throw the ball and hopefully our offense will come through tomorrow.  
 
Q.  Would you talk a little bit about your experience this year?
 
BRONSON ARROYO: Yeah, it's been an amazing year for me.  You know, I knew I had an outside shot of being a good starter in spring training and everything has worked out where I had an opportunity, and the organization has given me the fifth ball every fifth day and I had not had the opportunity before this.  I'm just glad that I've proven myself to be consistent enough to be given the ball in Game 3. 
 
Q.  Could you reflect on the job that both Curt and Pedro did against a tough Angels offense, and then also, what it's been like to be linked and maybe learn a little bit from those two guys this year?
 
BRONSON ARROYO:  The first part, both of these guys did an unbelievable job.  It wasn't like Curt had a little bit easier time.  They both had points in the game where they were a little bit in trouble and could have had some innings kind of blow up on us and might have been a different scenario, but they got the job done and that's what we've got those two guys here for, is to give us a lead, give us that edge that we need in a series with two big-game pitchers.  And you know, as far as pitching with these guys all year, it's been unbelievable.  Just to sit back and watch Curt and his preparation and kind of watch the differences between the two guys.  You know, you see that not everybody is the same, and there's different ways to go about your business and have results.  
 
Q.  What have you learned from some of the veteran staff this year?
 
BRONSON ARROYO:  For the most part I've learned more about the mental side of the game.  I haven't learned so much physically.  All of us are so different as pitchers.  Curt and me and Wakefield and Pedro obviously we have totally different styles of getting people out.  Just as far as your preparation and the mental side of the game, as far as how to pitch in certain scenarios, if Vladi comes up obviously and we're winning by five runs, I can pitch to him; and early in the game, two outs and a base open, I might not be able to do the same.  I think from that standpoint is where they have helped me out a lot as the year has gone on.  And Varitek is the same way; he's so intuitive behind the plate, kind of working with the pitchers.  
 
Q.  Inaudible?
 
BRONSON ARROYO:  I'm probably not -- actually in spring training, Curt used to get on me about being so loose until the clubhouse on the day I pitch.  You know everybody's got a different personality.  I try to act like everybody day is the same when I come to the ballpark.  The day I'm pitching I like to feel like it's every other day and I like to mingle and talk to the guys.  Curt is just the opposite.  He likes to be quiet and go over his notes and do his thing.  Everybody has got their own personalities.  You have to figure out what works for you.  
 
Q.  How big of a breakthrough career-wise was it to come to the Red Sox?
 
BRONSON ARROYO:  Yeah, being picked up by the Red Sox was huge for me.  I was kind of at the end of the rope with Pittsburgh.  I had done all I could in AAA with them and never really got an opportunity.  But to give me the ball here like they have here and pitch every fifth day, I was bouncing back and forth between the bullpen and closing, it's tough to be both of those roles when it's every two or three weeks you're starting a game, and then you're back in the pen.  Had I not been picked up with these guys, I don't know where I would be.  I would like to think I would be consistent enough to be somewhere in the big leagues but you never know.  It's a great opportunity.  
 
Q.  What's been the difference for you in the second half of the season?
 
BRONSON ARROYO:  I said all year that August is always my best month in AAA.  I've always been strong at the end of the year, and you know there's no one particular thing.  I think I've gotten comfortable with the lineup.  I've seen the guys in the American League a little bit more now.  And Jason, we work together a little bit better than we have earlier in the year.  I've felt stronger and stronger.  I've been working out for the last probably three months with our trainer, Chris, and everything just kind of clicked.  I feel good physically and I feel good mentally and everything's worked out.  
 
Q.  Johnny Damon was talking about what a great musician you are; modesty aside, what kind of musician are you?
 
BRONSON ARROYO:  I am not a good musician.  I'm a good musician in that clubhouse because we don't in many guys that are good musicians.  You know, I'll just sit around, play the guitar, sing a bunch of songs you've heard on the radio before. Johnny loves music and he's good friend with the guys from In Sync (ph).  As you're around the game a little bit longer, some of those guys love baseball, so I've gotten to meet some of the guys from Pearl Jam and a few times this year they have come out to the park and like hang around just the same way we like to go backstage and watch the show. 
 
Q.  Seeing Manny up close this year, how would you describe his personality, how it's evolved this year?
 
BRONSON ARROYO:  You know, I don't think it's as drastic of a change as you guys do.  I don't know, maybe he's a little bit more open with you.  I always thought he was the most friendly guy in the clubhouse, even when I first came up last year.  I just think this year he's a little more vocal.  Kevin Millar has brought that attitude to the clubhouse and kind of made it okay for everybody to be themselves and loosen up and not take the game so ear I didn't see when we're off the field.  Manny, he's always the same.  He's happy-go-lucky.  I comes to the park at 3:30 ready to play. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT