OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 10, 2016
Felicity Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








FELICITY JOHNSON: Didn't make too many mistakes today but just in the wrong place at the wrong time.
Q. You said yesterday, it had been a while since you had been in that position.  How did you feel this morning whenever you were going out, and do you think that you were coping with the position you were?
FELICITY JOHNSON: I felt okay out there.  I said yesterday it had been a while but again after a nice start, obviously makes it a little bit easier.  Opened up a little bit of a lead but Shanshan, hats off to her, I don't know what she shot today but it was pretty low.
64 out there today is pretty impressive, so hats off to her for that.  I maybe could have made a bit more of a change a bit around the turn but she went out and won it today.
Q. Did the wind bother you at any stage?
FELICITY JOHNSON: I'm not a massive fan of playing in the wind, but it wasn't as bad as I thought it might have been.  It was tricky to pick the direction out there.  But yeah, it wasn't as bad as I thought it might have been.
Q. Is this sort of the epitome of your year?
FELICITY JOHNSON: Yeah, it's obviously a Top-10, any day, you've got to be happy with.  To put myself into the position I did yesterday, kind of was a nice feeling again to be in the right position, the right end of the leaderboard.
So yeah, I've kind of wanted this year to end.  On and off the golf course hasn't been a great year.  To finish this way, yes, does epitomise it, but there's some positive stuff to take into a fresh season.
Q. What does it do for you going forward, because you can now put 2016 away.
FELICITY JOHNSON: Yes, 2016 is in the books.  It shows what I'm working on works really well when it works, obviously yesterday, just more time on the range, grooving it in.
Obviously your old faults come back under pressure like they did today.  Left is my bad shot, and hit a couple of those today.  Just go back and keep working on the same things; it works.  It's just a timely process.
Q. Would you be working on the mental angle, as well?
FELICITY JOHNSON: Just under a bit of pressure, you go back to your old habits.  It's only natural.  I think the more you get your good habits grooved in, the more you put yourself in these positions, it becomes second nature again.  More repetition.
Q. Did you feel Shanshan sort of catching up?  Were you aware?
FELICITY JOHNSON: Not really.  I think I looked at the board at one point and I had a three-shot lead and the next I was three behind.  I knew I made a couple of mistakes, but I don't know what her scorecard looked like.  Around the turn, the back nine, but there's quite a few birdies thrown in there.  She just took over me.
Q. What goes through your head?  Is it deflation, or right, you need to push on.
FELICITY JOHNSON: Yeah, obviously a little bit of deflation because I wasn't playing as well as I could have done.  But I kind of smiled to myself because she had some round going, so I kind of appreciated what she was doing.
Yeah, you're a little deflated because I think you're two back and you're five back or whatever it was.  Kind of takes the wind out of your sails a little bit.  I was trying to get outright third with a couple of holes to go, and didn't hit a great putt on 17 and just got a bad break with a lie on 18.
Q. You seem relatively upbeat for what's gone on.  Will it take a while to maybe get over it?  Will it sink in a little bit later?
FELICITY JOHNSON: Probably a little bit later I think.  Right now, season's done.  It's been a positive finish; take today out of it.  The result is a good finish.
So yeah, maybe give me until tonight when I'm sitting down reflecting or tomorrow on a flight home, it will probably sink in more then and I'll probably be more disappointed, but right now, it's okay.
Q. What do you have to do or what does anybody have to do to beat Shanshan around here?  She seems to own this place.
FELICITY JOHNSON: Yeah, I think we have to play maybe a couple less holes than her.  Yeah, she seems to have got rights to it at the moment.  Is that four from five or something, something ridiculous like that?  And even when you think she might not have been in contention today, what's she, five back today, and stormed it.
She's one of the best players in the world, so you can never count her out of it.
Q. Her being five back, did you look at the scores last night and think that she was a threat?
FELICITY JOHNSON: Yeah, being the player she is, she's always a threat.  I knew what the situation was.  I knew I had a two-shot lead.  But I didn't look at it and think, right, Shanshan's five back, Flory is a couple back.  I thought if I shot maybe 4-under today in the conditions that was maybe forecast in the wind, I thought 11 would probably be good enough.  You can never write her off.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT