OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 6, 2012
Felicity Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You had told me yesterday how pleased you are with your form, 24 hours ago, still the case I guess?
FELICITY JOHNSON:   Yeah, exactly.   It was a very kind of straightforward round.   I hit the ball great again.   Hit a lot of greens and had good opportunities, so very happy with my work so far this week.

Q.   A very strong finish, that could be significant that birdie on the last. 
FELICITY JOHNSON:   Yeah, it's always nice to finish with a birdie.   I missed a really good opportunity for birdie on 17, which is disappointing.   But hit a good shot into 18 and just kind of snuck it in the left edge for about ten foot.   Yeah, it's always a nice way to finish the day.

Q.   Is there anything you can improve on tomorrow or are you totally happy at the moment?
FELICITY JOHNSON:   Oh, there's always things you can improve on.   Nothing's ever perfect. 
So yeah, I missed a few fairways today, so if I can hit the driver a bit more accurate, just keep hitting the greens the way I am and hopefully hole a few more putts, yeah, there's always ways to improve. 

Q.   You'll be obviously in the final group with just edging into second there, how significant is that?   Is it on your mind when you're playing those closing holes, and how much do you look forward to that?
FELICITY JOHNSON:   Yeah, it's always fun to be in the last few groups, and I knew if I birdied the last‑‑ I knew when I was standing there if it went in, I would be in the last group, so gave me a little bit more to focus on.   Yeah, luckily it snuck in the edge and I'm looking forward to playing with Shanshan tomorrow. 

Q.   Somebody told me that you had been really focused recently, practicing a lot‑‑
FELICITY JOHNSON:   Who told you that? 

Q.   Can't say.   What have you been doing in the preparation for Q‑School and here?
FELICITY JOHNSON:   Getting ready for Q‑School, but yeah, the last kind of four, five months, I've worked hard, on my short game and especially on my putting really.   I've hit the ball pretty good all year but haven't converted as many chances as I'd like. 
Yeah, the last two‑month stretch, I went to the States early, worked on my putting, and I think I'm rolling the ball really well.   We're going to a good place with it hopefully, and I'm happy with it at the moment.

Q.   Have you done anything particularly special on the putting? 
FELICITY JOHNSON:   Nothing particularly.   I was just aiming too far left.   So it's not ideal when you're a couple feet away and you're not aiming at the hole.   Got the alignment sorted and a couple of basic things in the setup, and it's all feeling good at the moment.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT