OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 5, 2012
Felicity Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How was it out there?
FELICITY JOHNSON:   Very nice, actually, I like the temperature. 

Q.   Just first of all, give us a general assessment of the round, what you did well and what you're pleased with?
FELICITY JOHNSON:   Yeah, I hit the ball really good.   I hit 16 out of 18 greens, so long game in great shape.   Gave myself some good chances on the greens, which I converted a lot of, but three 3‑putts was a bit disappointing but overall I'm very happy.

Q.   You're coming into this off the back of getting your card in the States.   Does that help you when you arrive, does that help the confidence? 
FELICITY JOHNSON:   Definitely, I played great for five rounds last week, so it was a long, tiring week, which I'm glad it's done and dusted now. 
But yeah, coming here, it's given me a lot of confidence, so I went out there today, just try to enjoy it, which I did and played some good golf which helped.

Q.   Does it feel like you've accomplished one big job, so it's less pressure this week? 
FELICITY JOHNSON:   Yeah, definitely.   From right at the start of the season, I decided I was going to go to Q‑School in the states this year, so that was the whole year for me‑‑ so to go there and play well and get my card comfortably was really pleasing. 
So now I can come here and enjoy it, and I think if you enjoy your golf, that helps it a lot. 

Q.   Taking into consideration the quality of the field here, do you still feel like you can do some damage? 
FELICITY JOHNSON:   Yeah, exactly, I'm just trying to enjoy it, which I am at the moment.   I'm hitting the ball great so if I can get the putts rolling, which happened today, there's no reason why I can't go out and win this week. 

Q.   What was the condition of the course like? 
FELICITY JOHNSON:   As good as always out there.   Couple little changes around the greens, just growing in the fringe a little bit, so the greens are a little bit smaller.   But Craig and his team have done a great job as always.

Q.   And the fairways, is there much roll out there? 
FELICITY JOHNSON:   Not a whole heap, it's a bit softer out there which suits me being a long hitter.   But yeah, it's target golf out there which I enjoy, so go out there and aim at the flags and have a good time. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT