DIAMOND RESORTS TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 17, 2019
Mark Mulder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Mark, I'm going to ask you a couple questions.  Second place, 37 points, tied with Blair, a couple behind Mardy.  What else is new?  
MARK MULDER: It was fun today.  We had a good group.  Mardy and I were both hitting it good.  Nelly was hitting it good.  She could have been a lot better had she made a few putts, but I just had a handful of careless three putts that killed me.  Otherwise, I'd be right there with Mardy.  There again, it's four days.  We have plenty of time.  You have to be patient, make pars.   
I'm still convinced par -- which what we consider would be 36 points in this new format -- is going to be right there at the end of the day.   
 Q.  I'm looking at the players that are near the top.  Again, a couple of new guys up there.  McCann had 34 points.  J.R. had 37.  He's right there again.  And you've got Blair with 37.  She's playing --  
MARK MULDER: I talked to her last night.  This format is -- the old format, the points was hard for her because she had to make a lot of birdies.  She's not going to make a lot of birdies, but she can make a lot of pars.  Therefore, this new format is really good for her.   
Today is just one day, but I think you're kind of seeing what she meant by that.   
 Q.  How do you like this new format with the points?  Any difference to you?  
MARK MULDER: Not really.  I'm still going out and playing my game.  I had one stupid double bogey that was really uncalled for, so it's nice not getting minus 2.  Let's be honest, who wants minus 2?  But Mardy and I each had a double bogey.  That's the way it goes sometimes.   
For the most part, I like the four days.  It makes it a lot longer tournament, a lot more chance to put up a lot of points, and I'm excited about that.   
 Q.  What are you hearing from the other guys about the four days besides they get another day here and having a good time?  
MARK MULDER: I think the same thing.  I think they like it.  Three days is great, but any time you have an extra day to add some more points or do a little bit better or catch somebody is an advantage.  Or if you're in the lead, to extend yourself.  I think that's a good thing.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT