DIAMOND RESORTS INVITATIONAL
January 14, 2018
Mark Mulder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Golf can be a cruel game, man.   
MARK MULDER: Oh, yeah.  
   
 Q. So you've been on quite a run at these events. The back nine didn't go your way today. What kind of went down there?   
MARK MULDER: All three days were kind of a struggle for me. It was just mentally grinding it out as best I could. It wasn't enough. Marty played incredible. He made it look very easy. For me, it wasn't easy this week. But that's how this goes.   
I've been fortunate enough that I won a handful of these recently, winning it last year and winning the Tahoe event, but when you don't show up with your best game, you're going to get beat. That's how it went today.   
Mardy could have put up a much bigger number than he did. He missed a handful of putts that he probably could have made, but he played great, and he won it.  
   
 Q. Last thing, just the quality of the golf, does it surprise you sometimes? Just that guys, this is their second sport, second love, how good the golf is.   
MARK MULDER: I don't think it surprises me. Every so often, there's somebody who maybe surprises you, but guys can play. It really comes down to who handles it mentally better than others. I think a lot of us can play very well when you're playing with your boys at home at your home club, but then you turn the lights on and get in an atmosphere like this, and things change.  
   
 Q. I have to ask, I think there was something on 12 or 13.  
   
 Q. It was 12 you tried to cut the corner.   
MARK MULDER: No, I didn't really try to cut the corner. I just came over the top of it, and it was just an awful swing, and my miss is never really left. I play a little cut. It was coming off birdie‑birdie. All I wanted to do coming into today was just push Mardy, kind of just go, hey, I'm coming. I'm here.   
And I just‑‑ I got close after that birdie on 11 and 12. So, yeah, 13 tee shot. I came over the top of it and caught one of the trees. It was going to hook no matter what, but that's just normally not my miss. So it was a little uncharacteristic. And then 15 I tried to bite off a little more than I wanted to and came over the top of that again and missed that one left in the water and made those two doubles. And that was‑‑ once I made that double on 13, I knew I was done. It was kind of the end of it.   
But I got on a little run and tried to do the best I could, but it just wasn't enough.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT