AMERICAN CENTURY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 14, 2017
Mark Mulder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How many points today in your round?  
MARK MULDER: I think 22.  Not positive.  Somewhere right around there.   
 Q.  Tell us about the round.  You're going into it two-time defending champ.  You're confident.  Take us through it.  
MARK MULDER: I was trying to get something going on the front nine.  I made, I think, three birdies and after that just couldn't get anything going.  I birdied 18, but for the most part I hit a lot of balls to 15, 20 feet and just didn't make any putts.   
And that's the way this goes.  There's a lot of really good players.  As short as the course plays, it becomes a putting contest between the better players.   
If you don't make putts, you're not going to be at the top of the leaderboard.  And today I didn't quite make them.  But I'm happy with where I'm at right now.   
 Q.  Last year you got hot as hell on the front nine, birdied, I think, five holes in the front nine and ran away with it.  You're right in position.  
MARK MULDER: I'm completely fine with where I'm at.  Those top couple of guys right now, I just wanted 20-something going into tomorrow, which now, tomorrow, for my goal, is 20-something again.  And it's as simple as that, because then on Sunday it gets real.  That's when it really gets tough and guys -- it gets to you a little bit.   
It becomes a little bit more serious.  I'm just trying to do my best and grind it out until then.   
 Q.  We've got Derek Lowe at 25, best round he's ever shot.  He said:  Hey, that's the best I've ever played.  I am a little nervous going into tomorrow, I was a little nervous today.  
 And Alfonso, I think, had 21 and he said:  I don't ever expect to win this thing; I just want to play well.   
 You've got a couple of guys at the top.  Aaron Rodgers is in there, too, so you've got a lot of guys at the top who haven't been there before.   
MARK MULDER: Absolutely.  And I think that's great, because it just includes that many more guys.  But like you said, they haven't been there before.  It's very different.  The first couple of times I was in the mix, it was hard to handle.   
Not saying that they can't handle it, but it is very different.  But I'm excited to see how they do.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT