AMERICAN CENTURY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 21, 2012
Mark Mulder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Mark Mulder.   Mark is currently in third place by himself. 
22 points yesterday.   16 more today.   Run us through your round. 
MARK MULDER:     You know, it was so‑so.   I hit three terrible drives that led to two double bogeys, and that really just killed me.   So I mean you take away those two double bogeys and I didn't play all that terrible.
But when you get the minus points anytime, that kills you out here.
THE MODERATOR:   You've got five guys within six points of the lead.   What do you think going into tomorrow? 
MARK MULDER:     Kind of the same thing I did today.   Just try to make pars.   Hopefully roll in a few birdies which I was able to do and you stay away from the minus two points.
But there's so many guys that are so close to this lead, it will be interesting to see if somebody‑‑ maybe one of the three or four groups from the end goes up and posts a good score, you're going to sit there and stare at it.   You're going to see it.

Q.   Be going for the par 5s in two, obviously. 
MARK MULDER:     Exactly.

Q.   We've had earlier this week Jamie Moyer was in here, and it's interesting for us to hear about someone who has played the other sport, come here, how they relate to each other, what works for something that you might have done in baseball out on the golf course. 
MARK MULDER:     Well, I think golf and pitching are kind of the only two things that nothing happens until you do it.
Every other sport is kind of reactionary, and you make plays, but when it comes to pitching, nothing can happen on the field until we throw that pitch. 
And it's the two sports where you can kind of think too much.   And unfortunately with golf that happens a lot.   You have a lot of time to unfortunately think about a lot of negative things.   And this isn't what any of us really‑‑ most of us don't do for a living.
So to think that we're not or myself is not nervous out there, you're crazy.   I don't play golf in front of a lot of people.   When you get the opportunity to do it it's fun to do it but you're glad when the round is done when it's done.

Q.   What happened at No. 7 there?   Did you have a bad lie in the trap?
MARK MULDER:     Yeah, I pulled it a little bit left.   I had a real downhill lie in the bunker and tried to just get something on to that green and hit behind it a little bit too far and then I had to make sure I got it out and then missed the bogey putt. 
So it's one of those mistakes that I had‑‑ I needed to get it out of that trap and try to make bogey, take my zero points and move on or at least give myself a putt at par.   So that was one of my two big mistakes I made today. 

Q.   You're going up against a couple of guys tomorrow that have won this a few times like Quinn, and you've got a couple of other guys that are top, that have been in the hunt every year on this.
This is your third time here.   How do you like your chances? 
MARK MULDER:     Well, this is the first time‑‑ this is the third year I've played in this, and it's the first time I've actually been playing well coming into it.   The last two years I was just kind of playing so so and kind of grinded my way through it.   And I have a lot of confidence in the way I'm hitting it right now.   If I avoid those couple bad tee shots like I had today I think I'll be okay. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT