DIAMOND RESORTS TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 19, 2020
Mark Mulder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Take me through your round today. What was going on out there?
MARK MULDER: Hitting everything to 30 feet. Couldn't hit anything close. Even when I had good numbers, I'd hit the number, and then it would rip back because it was into the wind, so there would be too much spin. Just couldn't control the ball flight. I hit a couple of really good shots. Some of them went too high in the wind, and then they got knocked down.
You know, it was just one of those days. It's golf. That's why we're amateurs and our name's not on our bag. That's the way it is. I didn't play well enough. I wanted to try to at least scare Smoltz a little bit, try and post something, and just couldn't get it going. Hit a great drive on 1 and then hit a terrible approach shot. So right there from the get-go it didn't go the way I wanted.
It's still great. I love this event. It gets better and better every single year, and I'm happy to be a part of it.
Q. How many birdies today?
MARK MULDER: I think I just had two, which I probably needed eight or a couple of eagles. Like I said, I started feeling it a little bit on the back nine, and then it kind of went away. I had a ball go right behind a bush on 16. Had to take it unplayable, which kind of killed the vibe of my round. I don't even know how it could get there. It's one of those, it was on the right side, and I hit it with a fade. How does it even get behind the bush?
Q. You hit a heck of an up and down there. I was sitting there watching.
MARK MULDER: Yeah, it was one of those. You have to take the unplayable and move on, and then I didn't hit birdie on 17.
Q. Were you and Mardy trying to draft off of each other to try to get Smoltzy?
MARK MULDER: Yeah, you'd like to, but neither of us got anything going. He hit a few good shots late in the round, but for the most part, it was kind of a dead group with the exception of Nasa playing very well. Hopefully, whether she goes to a playoff or not, I'd like to see her win it. So we'll see what happens.
Q. Mark, third place finish. You're always near the top here.
MARK MULDER: I had a bad Friday, and that's the way it goes. I gave all those strokes back that I gained on Thursday. I gave them all back on Friday, and you can't let that happen.
Q. You're feeling better after Friday. You were sick on Friday.
MARK MULDER: I was, but yesterday was a little better, today was a lot better. Today was a little bit more normal. Just couldn't get it going. Health-wise I'm fine. Just bad timing. What are you going to do?






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT