DIAMOND RESORTS TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 18, 2020
Mark Mulder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MARK MULDER: Otherwise, you need that other guy to really struggle, kind of like I did yesterday. That's kind of what you need. If Smoltz plays a good round tomorrow, something like 5 or 6 under, that's tough.   
 Q.  You ended up 106. I think he's at 110 or something like that.  
MARK MULDER: I'm hoping to be within five or so. Otherwise, it makes it tough with this format.   
 Q.  Are you at 106? Is that accurate?  
MARK MULDER: I'm not sure if it's 105 -- I made par, so that might be accurate. I could be six or seven back, which would be tough.   
 Q.  That's too much?  
MARK MULDER: I don't know if it's too much, but he would have to play poorly, and I'd have to play really well. He'd have to have a round kind of like I did yesterday almost in order to really catch him.   
 Q.  A couple holes, he makes a couple bogeys and you make a couple birdies, it tightens the field.  
MARK MULDER: 100 percent, it gets you thinking. Yeah, but I'm assuming he won't be in the same group. I probably won't be in the same group as him. I know the year he won it last year, he was in the group with the two LPGA girls by himself. So if it stays the same way, it might be me and Mardy again in the last group.   
 Q.  It looks like a four-man group, the three of you plus Chad.  
MARK MULDER: And Chad played great yesterday. I didn't see how he did today.   
 Q.  So Mark, with all these factors in the air, how does that help you approach tomorrow?  
MARK MULDER: I've got to go out there and get a bunch of points tomorrow, no ifs, ands, or buts about it. There's no way to come back, especially if Smoltz is hitting the ball the way he is. I just gave away too much ground not feeling well yesterday and having the day that I did. So I tried to get as much fluid in me today as I could to be ready for tomorrow and hopefully have a little more energy.   
 Q.  So what are some things you noticed today that you might want to carry over into tomorrow as far as your actual game goes?  
MARK MULDER: Nothing. I just want to feel better. I want to go back to the hotel and get some more sleep like I did last night. It was a rough day playing yesterday, playing with the fever and everything. It wasn't a whole lot of fun. It was just a lot of bad timing. Hopefully tomorrow I'll have a lot more energy and be ready to go.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT