DIAMOND RESORTS TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 17, 2020
Mark Mulder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You started the day in the lead. What was the game plan going in?  
MARK MULDER: Just trying to keep doing what I'm doing, and I didn't do it. That's the way golf goes. We're halfway through this tournament. I'm a few points back, but just like yesterday, I can put up a big number. Today was, to be fair about it, as poorly as I can play. So I guess I should look at that as the bright side.   
 Q.  Did the wind factor into how you played today?  
MARK MULDER: You know, not really. I hit a lot of really bad shots, and the wind just made it worse. So I can't say that the wind got to me. It was just I had a bad swing going today, and that's kind of how it goes.   
 Q.  You mentioned yesterday that you were glad you got off to a fast start. Now you've kind of backpedaled a little bit. What are you feeling going into the weekend?  
MARK MULDER: I'm good. To be fair, I felt terrible last night. I didn't sleep well. I don't know if it was food or what. So today was a real grind physically because I didn't feel really well. I do not make excuses, but it's just how I felt. I'm glad it's over. I'm anxious to get back to the hotel and go to sleep, to be honest with you.   
 Q.  What is your game plan going into the weekend?  
MARK MULDER: Make a bunch of birdies. With this format, the way the points are, it's almost a stroke play event, unless you're making eagles. Eagles kind of can catapult you into a certain spot if you're behind or way ahead. So with my length -- you know, I three-putted two of the par 5s that I hit in two today. That's what I'm saying. It's about as poor as it could be. So I'm excited for the weekend.   
 Q.  John Smoltz mentioned earlier you're one of the players he's watching for going into the weekend. How does it feel knowing other players look at you as one of the favorites?  
MARK MULDER: I've been fortunate that I've won a few of these. Smoltzy won it last year. I feel the same way about him. I think whether it's him, whether it's Mardy, whether it's Chad now, it will come down to one of us here at the end.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT