NBA ALL-STAR 2018
February 17, 2018
Joel Embiid
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  On trash talking.  
JOEL EMBIID: I'm not disrespecting them.  This game is about being competitive and having fun.  When I get on the court, I want to win, and also I want to have fun, and [trash talking] is a way for me to do that.   
So it's really not disrespectful.  At the end of the day I'm sure these guys, they know that it's just for fun and they want to win.  But at the end of the day there is no doubt I'm not disrespecting anybody.  This is a brotherhood, and I'm just looking to have fun.   
 Q.  Are there any things that are out of bounds as far as trash talking?  
JOEL EMBIID: No, I think as long as you keep it to the game and you don't talk about no families or nothing outside of basketball.  I think it's that.   
 Q.  Are you disappointed or relieved to not have to face Boogie Cousins in the All-Star Game?  
JOEL EMBIID: I'm disappointed.  I feel bad that he got injured.  I love competing against him.  Last year I thought we had a great battle, and I wish him luck in his recovery.   
 Q.  Who are you going to pick first, Cristiano Ronaldo or Messi?  
JOEL EMBIID: Messi.  Messi is the best player ever.   
 Q.  Messi is a lot better than Ronaldo for you?  
JOEL EMBIID: Well, Real Madrid is my favorite team, but I just think overall I support Cristiano, but just overall being a fan of football, in general, I think Messi is the best player ever.   
 Q.  Would you like to meet Messi?  
JOEL EMBIID: Oh, yeah, yeah, definitely.  You know, one of these days whenever I get the chance, hopefully.   
 Q.  What do you like about his game?  
JOEL EMBIID: He's just -- I don't know.  He's just so good.  He's agile, quick, technique, the way he moves.  He's just -- I don't know.  He's just really good.  He's just so good.  Like Cristiano is more about power, but Messi is just about finesse.  He's got power, finesse, and he's so good.   
 Q.  Can we compare Messi and [Manu] Ginobili?  
JOEL EMBIID: I think Messi is bigger than Ginobili as far as like in respect to the sports, but they're both from Argentina.  I mean, I think Ginobili is a Hall of Famer.  Messi's definitely going.  I think he's the best player ever.  So you can't compare them.   
 Q.  LeBron just announced he's remaking "House Party."  If you could remake and star in any '90s movie, what would it be?  
JOEL EMBIID: Well, I never watched "House Party," so I don't know anything about "House Party."   
 Q.  Any movie that you would want to remake and star in?  
JOEL EMBIID: I would say "Coming to America," just because I'm African.  I came from Africa, and this is like a dream.  I got the chance, and I made the most out of this, and I'm here.  I've still got a long way to go, but probably "Coming to America."   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT