SAN DIEGO STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 12, 2018
Ryan Agnew
Parker Houston
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Air Force - 17, San Diego State - 21
Q. Ryan, is it difficult in being in game mode and then going to the locker room, coming back out, having to refocus?
RYAN AGNEW: Yeah, it's a tough challenge, everyone knows we had to do that last year against Air Force, so we kind of had some experience in that situation.
The tough part is staying loose, staying focused on the game because we were up here for about an hour but I think our team did a great job coming out, staying focused and eventually making enough big plays to get the win.
Q. Could both of y'all talk about the touchdown you guys had?
PARKER HOUSTON: I didn't think we were ever going to call that play but when we did, O-Line executed it, receivers, backfield executed it, Ags executed perfectly, and we ended up scoring.
RYAN AGNEW: What he's not mentioning is he made a guy miss.  That was probably the greatest part about it.
Like he said, it was a great play call by the coaches, for them to trust Parker in that situation, trust the call, because it's not an easy one to execute.  Parker, you know, made a guy miss to get in the end zone.  Just a testament to what type of player he is.  He's going to do anything to get in the end zone.
Q. Why did you think they would never call that play?
PARKER HOUSTON: We like to run a lot of those plays in practice and call them practice plays.  It's hard to find the right situations for plays like that, and Coach Horton being the great OC he is, he knows exactly when to call those.  And when he calls those, we are all hyped up and we have to execute it to the fullest.
Q. Were you surprised it was so wide open?
PARKER HOUSTON: Yeah, but I mean, that's the design of the play is to have that middle of the field open.  I was expecting maybe another guy there, but I was glad it was only one man.
Q. Ryan, why did you have a smile on your face when you said Parker made a guy miss?
PARKER HOUSTON: Because I'm unagile, that's why he's smiling.
RYAN AGNEW: He's not unagile.  He's a big tight end, always in the dirt, always making the tough blocks, always getting down and dirty and trying to open up holes for the running back.  It's really awesome to see him take full advantage of the opportunity when he get the rock in his hands.
Q. Can you talk about the two third down plays, you had a 32-yard scramble and another 32-yard pass to Kobe.  Can you talk about those two plays?
RYAN AGNEW: You know, in that moment, backed up with that scramble, I try to find a couple guys that weren't there.  There was an opening, and you know, at that point, you can't really think, you've just got to go and make a play for the team because defense played extremely well.
We were held in check for a lot of times and eventually we had to persevere and make a play.  Kobe on that scramble did an outstanding job.  He knows, you know, where I expect him to be on a scramble job and as soon as I came out and saw him coming across the field, he did a great job, made an outstanding catch and really fortunate that he was there.
Q. You were smiling walking up here.  How satisfying is that win for you?
RYAN AGNEW: It's a great, satisfying win.  Air Force is a great football team.  They do so much for us not only on the field but off the field.  To play against those guys, first of all, they are great people, great guys, and it means a lot that we can be toe-to-toe with them and beat them in a football game because we have the utmost respect for them.  It was a great win for our program and we love it.
Q. You guys are perfecting the art of living dangerously.  What's allowed you to pull through at the end of these games?
PARKER HOUSTON: Just the way we're prepared with our strength coach, with our coaches on the field.  They prepare us to be in a dog fight the whole game, mentally, physically, we're always, you know, tested in practice or in the weight room to be better and we just keep, you know, prepared to persevere through anything we get thrown at -- any obstacles we get thrown at.
Q. What do you think Ryan?
RYAN AGNEW: Same exact thing like he said.  This game wasn't won in this week of practice.  This game was won back in January.  We preached toughness.  We preach every rep matters, every day matters, every practice matters.  Games like this is where it shows up.  Not many people see it, but you know, this has been in the making since January since we started this team.
Q. You've had a lot of close finishes like this.  Is there a calmness now that you feel because you're in a situation like that?
PARKER HOUSTON: No.  It didn't change.  You still tense up.  You still get the butterflies in your stomachs -- or your stomach.  We'd like to stop doing that.  We'd like to be ahead by a couple more touchdowns going in, give our defense some breathing room because I mean, the last two games, our defense has been what's holding our team down.  The stops they make, the turnovers they create, it really helps us guys on offense but on offense we have to help them a lot more.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT