LPGA Q-SERIES
October 24, 2019
Kim Kaufman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
KIM KAUFMAN: A little shaky to start. I don't know what was going on, but kind of settled in five, six holes in. Made a nice birdie on a reachable par-5. Kind of feeling like I was yesterday, just kind of got back to normal and didn't quite make as many putts.   
We were 2-over through 4; it's nice to finish in the red numbers.   
 Q.  When you have a bumpy start, you're bound to have a round out here I'm sure over eight rounds where you're not going to be happy. When you can start like today, is that something that maybe signifies something in you to where you can circle and say, when that day comes, look at it and say, I did this; I can get right back in it?  
KIM KAUFMAN: Yeah, for sure. I mean, I think out here through eight rounds it either easier (indiscernible) or can get harder if you don't. You start to -- I think I showed myself it's okay. It's like, Okay, I'll make a bogey on 10 tomorrow again. Not my favorite hole. It's okay. There is plenty to bounce back.   
That's what I told myself. Like when is the last time you shot 6-under and were leading an event? Even though it's not an event you have to win you're still leading, and it's been a while. Probably been Australia.   
So just a little different spot. Like I said, I was really happy how I bounced back, and for sure feeling a little bit like my old self again.   
 Q.  And the weather around here. Might be some people that aren't used to it, but you sure are.  
KIM KAUFMAN: Yeah, it's fantastic. Pretty cold the morning; we don't mind. I mean, Pinehurst has been really good to us this year, so hopefully stays that way.   
 Q.  Just look at the leaderboard. Obviously like you said, you don't need to win, but there is a purse. There are prizes.  
KIM KAUFMAN: Yeah, and the higher the better, for sure.   
 Q.  Lauren republican has played up there, Lindsey has played up there.  
KIM KAUFMAN: Yeah.   
 Q.  And you're up there, obviously. Do you see that kind of separations of like the levels?  
KIM KAUFMAN: I think over eight rounds that's what happened last year for sure. And then you see it here pretty early on. (Indiscernible) I don't really look to the board besides that, so I don't know what's going on behind that.   
But it does start to separate a little bit, and you'll have some girls obviously play well that week out of college or whatnot, which is great, but it will be fun to go out tomorrow with those girls I've played with and play like an LPGA event.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT