JTBC FOUNDERS CUP
March 19, 2015
Kim Kaufman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MATT HAAS:   We welcome Kim Kaufman after a 6‑under 66 today at JTBC Founders Cup.   What helped you shoot that great round today?   
KIM KAUFMAN:   I had a poor start, and I told myself, I'm not going to have this long day.   But it had been a long morning already so wanted to get something going.   I was patient, rolled in a few birdies, hit it close on a couple holes and played pretty steady after that.   
   
 Q.   What was your morning like?   What time did you wake up and how difficult is it to wait out a four‑hour rain delay with an early tee time?  
KIM KAUFMAN:   I got up at 4:30 and had an hour drive.   Staying in south Phoenix with some friends, which now is a bad idea I think.   I got here and as he pointed out earlier, he saw a Tweeted photo of me; I slept in the dining room, and then warmed up a bit and then slept in the restaurant for the next one and then we finally went out and played.  
But it is hard, when you're sitting there and you're sleeping on a table somewhere, the last thing you want to do is go warm up on the range.   But you do, you go out there and get going and get into it, and everyone did it.  
   
 Q.   You plopped down on a table?  
KIM KAUFMAN:   Just my head.   There's a foe oh on Twitter somewhere.   It's just an early morning, we were all just playing around.   
   
 Q.   Players talked about the course being soft already.   I assume it softened up even more where you could just fire at pins?  
KIM KAUFMAN:   Definitely.   I played on Monday in the afternoon and it was pretty hard, pretty fast.   I know they had been watering it a lot.   It was okay today.   We played lift, clean and place all the way through.   Greens definitely, they were just about perfect I think.   It handled it well.   
   
 Q.   How big will this be in Clark, South Dakota?   Will people be buzzing in the bars or talking about it in the grocery store?   
KIM KAUFMAN:   Yeah, it's on I think pretty much in the two bars that we have.   I've met a lot of people out here that winter down here and are from South Dakota and love to come out.   I think it's probably bigger there than I realize.   I just think I'm playing another event but for them, I know it's on in about every TV in Clark, yeah.  
   
 Q.   What's your hometown mean to you and what's it like?   
KIM KAUFMAN:   Clark is about a thousand people.   Everyone definitely knows everyone, and going back, I loved‑‑ I don't go back enough, because they support me so much there I don't even realize it.   I've got to get back more often.   I know they are all 100 percent behind me.  
   
 Q.   You were going to have a late tee time tomorrow anyway and now it's probably going to be late, late in the afternoon.   So what will you do?   You might not tee off until 4:00 or 4:30.   
KIM KAUFMAN:   My mom is here and it's her birthday on Saturday.   So I think we should go shopping, that's my plan I thought of already, just a little lunch, just try to fill the day that way.   So that's probably where I'll be.  
   
 Q.   That tee time you just don't ever have.   Is it difficult to wait that long to start playing golf?   
KIM KAUFMAN:   Not if I keep yourself busy.   If I wait around at home, it will be.   I don't want to watch it on TV.   If I just go and we go to the gym, go shopping, have lunch and it goes by fast, it's okay.   It's kind of a fun day to look forward to.  
   
 Q.   Did you know Chris Cheddar at any point?   
KIM KAUFMAN:   I have played with her once when I was like a freshman in college.   I didn't know her well because she's lived now in Virginia but I have since been on Tour and met her and talked to her.   She's awesome.   I could call her and ask her anything.   She won last week so we were all excited about that.   I don't know her really well, no.   
   
 Q.   What's the name of like the one meeting place, is there a big coffee or breakfast place where everybody meets in the morning and would be talking about it?   
KIM KAUFMAN:   Yeah, at the gas station would be in the morning.   That's all we've got for a coffee shop probably, Gas Plus.   The two bars would be Sporty's and the Lookout.   Those are it.   
MATT HAAS:   A lot of people might not know your whole back story in the game of golf, growing up in South Dakota.   How did you get into the game and where you are today?   
KIM KAUFMAN:   We moved to Clark when I was just a baby, and my dad took up golf for the first time when he was about 30, and I was four years old and my sister was six and we started going with him and pretty soon it was just playing and he didn't play at all really since then.   
We had a nine‑hole course and that's what I did I played the nine‑hole course a million times until I was 13 or 14, and then would start driving to Sioux Falls to meet with my coach and stay there and play.   That was it, just every day.   
   
 Q.   Lydia just rolled in a putt to tie for the lead.   What do you think of her and what she's doing?   
KIM KAUFMAN:   She is awesome.   My first event in Hawai'i, played with Lydia, was paired with her the last two days I think.   That girl is so good to play with because she makes it just so simple.   And you're out there and you're like, you shot a 65, like I thought you shot a 72.   
It's great to watch and great to watch her demeanor.   I love to play with her.   I don't think she realizes how good she is and what she's doing yet.   I mean, she's so young.   We are out there talking about if she's going to get her driver's license.   That's all she's thinking about.   Really, she's so innocent; she's just phenomenal.  
   
 Q.   Is it hard to manage ina 17‑year‑old being the best player in the world?  
KIM KAUFMAN:   Yes, it is because I was a long ways from that at 17.   I still am I think.   That's what I mean, I don't think she realizes.   They don't grasp the money they are making probably and what they are doing, which is maybe one of the reasons why she does it so flawlessly it seems like.   But it's fun to watch.   It's fun to be playing here when she's playing.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT