CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 18, 2017
Kim Kaufman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  (Regarding mono.)  Take us through that.  
KIM KAUFMAN: Well, I played first three in Asia and I just was sick.  I had everything, no appetite, just all these things and we had no idea.   
In Malaysia I got to a point where I didn't warmup I was so tired.  I would just go take a nap.   
I wasn't in Japan.  I was alternate, and I said, I'm going to take (indiscernible- regarding seeing a doctor.   
The plan was to go back to Blue Bay, and I found out the night before that I had mono, that that's what I've been having.  So I didn't go to China.  I've been resting at home for two weeks.   
I feel great.  I'm a little bit shaky actually, which isn't great out there, but it's just great to be out and doing something.   
I was going a little bit stir crazy.  You know, just kind of fighting through it.   
 Q.  Did you call Anna Nordqvist?  
KIM KAUFMAN: No, I need to.  I've been meaning to talk to her about it.  I don't know where I got it and if it was Anna.  I don't now.  I just had it, and I think I'm through the worst of it, though.   
 Q.  How much were you even able to play or practice?  
KIM KAUFMAN: Well, I was in South Dakota so I did not.  It was like 20 degrees up there.  I hit balls on Monday with my coach inside before I knew.  So one day, and then off two weeks.   
Got here on Monday and practiced Tuesday.   
 Q.  Were you rusty?  
KIM KAUFMAN: Yeah, a little rusty.  (Laughter.)  You know, I thought it's like a no-cut event, you want to play the last event of the year.  You think, Let's just come out and play.  It's a little bit of pressure off when it's limited field.   
Definitely rusty, but we're getting it back.   
 Q.  Is there any treatment that you're undergoing?  
KIM KAUFMAN: You know, mono you just need to rest.  That's I think the problem in Asia is that I kept thinking it's jet lag and I kept thinking it's whatever, stay awake, get after it, and si I wasn't.   
So for three weeks that's why I got so bad, I think.  The last two I rested.  I didn't do anything, which was great.  It's what I needed.   
 Q.  How many hours a day were you sleeping?  
KIM KAUFMAN: At first I would sleep for ten hours and get up and want to take a nap in Malaysia, and that's what I would do at home.   
I would nap, then eat dinner, and go to bed.  It was a lot.  And then I got to point where my body just needed rest and I wasn't sleepy, which was nice.   
 Q.  Did you binge watch anything?  
KIM KAUFMAN: Yeah.  Friends and Fixer Upper.  If I watch anymore friends or Fixer Upper...   
That was it.   
 Q.  So this leaderboard is pretty crazy.  Were you paying attention to it when you were out there?  
KIM KAUFMAN: I didn't until just the last hole here.  I noticed it was really stacked up at 9.  And I know those girl will make some birdies and we'll see where we finish, but it's nice to, you know, start the day middle of the pack and put yourself in the hunt.  It's pretty nice.   
 Q.  Is it safe to say you came into the week with low or no expectations?  
KIM KAUFMAN: Yeah, very.  I just wanted to play and see how I felt and see if I could do it.   
And I do feel great.  I'm not like that tired.  I mean, I'm okay.   
 Q.  Old theory that a sick golfer, injured golfer can sometimes do very well.  You've sort of proven that today.  
KIM KAUFMAN: Yeah, 100%.  Sometimes your best weeks you play you get in late and don't get a practice round.  You know, you just get out there and play.  It's the same thing.  I've played here, it's my fourth year now.  It's just a drive and a green and you just got to play.   
 Q.  Did you play a practice round here?  
KIM KAUFMAN: I did.  Well, I just played the pro-am.  That's all I did is play the pro-am.   
 Q.  Nice to get out of Dakota weather?  
KIM KAUFMAN: Yeah.   
 Q.  What you did say it was, 20?  
KIM KAUFMAN: We had some really cold days.  We had some snow.  I was done with it.  I was coming down here.   
 Q.  What town were you in?  
KIM KAUFMAN: I'm from Clark, small town called Clark.   
 Q.  Is this wrist thing precautionary?  
KIM KAUFMAN: Well, I'm the only person to take two weeks off and get injured.  I went down my stairs and I just went out from under me and I caught myself.  I didn't think anything of it at the time, but when I got here and hit balls on Tuesday I could feel it.   
So I just went in there.  It's a little bit precautionary.  I don't feel it on the golf course.  It's no problem.  I just feel better taping it, because I did feel it on Tuesday.  I got injured while I was resting.   
 Q.  Was there in spectacular shot or putt today to get you to 64?  
KIM KAUFMAN: I hit it way left on 15 by the green into the pine straw and the sand, and it's tucked tight there.  We talked about hitting a bump, and I thought I'd hit like a bunker shot and did.  I hit it to about a foot.  Kept me going I think.  I went birdie, birdie on 15, 17.  I think that was a real good -- it could have kind of went bogey, and then 16 is a kind of tough hole.  You know, it kept me going for sure.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT