MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 23, 2017
Kim Kaufman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You really finished strong.  
KIM KAUFMAN: Yeah, I did, but I've been having a lot of struggles these last few weeks, so just to finally get it together, even after the first round, I'm still pretty happy.   
 Q.  Three straight days, wasn't it 67, 66, 65?  Where did that come from?  
KIM KAUFMAN: You know, I just love this golf course, so I have good memories here, but I finally just said, I have to trust my swing.  Even though I've been struggling, it's in there, and I worked really hard the weekend of the Open and this week, and I knew it was there, and I thought, I can't keep trying to steer it and save it, and I just kind of committed to it.  You know, it's not always perfect, but we had a lot of birdies.   
 Q.  What did you not do Thursday that you corrected over the last three days?  
KIM KAUFMAN: I think it was just -- I worked hard on my swing, but I wasn't trusting it, and it's just in golf you have to trust it no matter what.  I just said, I'm going to do a much better job of that coming in, and I probably putted a little bit better.   
 Q.  You're heading to Scotland?  
KIM KAUFMAN: I am, Scottish and British.   
 Q.  Today?  
KIM KAUFMAN: Yeah, today, a bunch of us are going tonight.   
 Q.  It'll make the plane ride a little more enjoyable I'm sure?  
KIM KAUFMAN: Yeah, it will for sure, just to go over there and have a change of scenery and a change of pace -- I say that now when I'm freezing.  But it'll be good.  I'm excited about that event.   
 Q.  You're obviously bringing some momentum in.  Do you think that'll help you there?  
KIM KAUFMAN: Yeah, I hope so.  You know, links golf has kind of been tough for the last few years.  I want to have a couple weeks to go over there and practice and get ready for the British, so yeah, I hope so.  I've got to kind of do the same thing I did here there and have the same mindset, and hopefully that'll help me.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT