COATES GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY R+L CARRIERS
February 5, 2016
Kim Kaufman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Obviously kind of a strange way to play two different rounds in a day.  Just talk about how you approached the day starting from this morning.
KIM KAUFMAN: Yeah, we knew it was going to be long, and we were ready for that.  It was kind of the same thing we did last year.  We knew early it was going to be kind of a fight, and then with about seven holes left this morning, I thought, okay, let's make some birdies, and we just continued that in the afternoon.  I just played well, started to hit my irons really well.
Q. I didn't look at your scorecard, but I saw you were kind of climbing and then tied for the lead.  Talk about this afternoon and how you were playing?
KIM KAUFMAN: Yeah, I think I hit every fairway.  I did miss a couple of greens and made one bogey, but just made some good putts, made some -- had some knock-ins out there that just kind of added up.  Honestly I was surprised the scores maybe weren't a little bit lower, but when you're playing well, you always think that.
Q. Tomorrow is going to be another long day, similar to today.  Is there any experience you can draw on for that, any time in your career where you're had to play 27, 30 holes?
KIM KAUFMAN: Yeah, I played college golf for four years.  We played 36, and I was joking with my teammates, that's what it's like.  We've done that, just getting back, getting dinner and getting to bed and being rested for tomorrow.  We're looking forward to -- we actually have less packed in tomorrow than we did today.  We got through 12 holes, which is nice.
Q. What was your layoff this morning?
KIM KAUFMAN: I played all 18 this morning, so I started at 7:40, and then I had a decent break, probably about an hour and 45 minutes, which is about perfect.  I just kind of kept going.  Yeah, we played a lot today.
Q. What did you do in between the break?
KIM KAUFMAN: I just ate up in dining and sat there for about 30 extra minutes and then went and warmed up again.  It was perfect.  It wasn't too long.
Q. Was the warm-up different with this weather?
KIM KAUFMAN: What was nice is that this exact same thing last year where it was really cool in the mornings and we'd kind of warm up, so we kind of knew what to expect.  It's a tough course, and you've just got to kind of grind it out through a few sections, and then there's always birdie chances if you can kind of get through those.
Q. Where are you right now on the course?
KIM KAUFMAN: I am going to start on 13.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT