CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
August 14, 2015
Kim Kaufman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. What's been working for you?
KIM KAUFMAN: I just finally got my putter going on the front side, which was my back side. Just rolled in a bunch of good putts, started hitting it close, and there's some reachable par‑5s back there that helped to really kind of boost your round. That's it. The greens are so good, there's just a lot of putts to be made, just got to start making them.

Q. What do you like about this course and what suits your game?
KIM KAUFMAN: I like that it's a little tight off the tee. You've got to hit some good drives or you get in the bunker, and I do a good job of keeping it in the fairway. I'm not afraid to just take out my 3‑wood. Other than that, it's a putting golf course. It's very scorable, and when I'm putting well, you feel like you can shoot a million under. I think those two things.

Q. You're finding yourself in this position more and more often near the top of the leaderboard. Are you getting more and more comfortable with everything that comes with it?
KIM KAUFMAN: Yeah, I think so. Last year was kind of different, I would go shoot really well on Sunday to finish well after not really being in it, and this year it kind of flip‑flopped, and I've to learn to just play two more days here with it. But I do feel more comfortable, and I hope I can one of these weeks finish it out, and hopefully this week.

Q. Does having Worth on the bag help you out with that, someone that's been out here before?
KIM KAUFMAN: Yeah, and I think that we've just been together longer now. It just flows. Yeah, he's great. He doesn't say much always because I'm not real chit‑chatty always, but if I am, he's there, and yeah, he knows how to handle the emotional part that goes along with it when you're playing well.

Q. And then what's the game plan going into the weekend?
KIM KAUFMAN: I'm just going to just keep doing the same thing, and for me I think I have to continue to be aggressive on my putts. I start to get a little tentative times and I'm going to try to change that this week, because you've got to keep making putts. You can't go out there and protect your lead, and I'll do that sometimes. I'm going to keep playing on the offense, I think, so that's kind of my goal. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT