SAN DIEGO STATE UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 12, 2009
Brady Hoke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


   COACH HOKE: Obviously, it's nice to win a game, that was first and foremost. I think you have to give Southern Utah a lot of credit. I think they had some pretty good players at some of the skilled positions, and I thought they did a pretty good job, you know, and made some plays. 
At the same time, I thought we had some guys step up, you know, mainly V.J. made some plays for us, and did some things that were real positive. But we had way too many penalties. Way too many mistakes in that part of the game that are sloppy. You know, they hurt you, and you can't play football that way. 

 Q. You said when you came here (no microphone) that being said, seeing them carry the ball so successfully (No microphone)?
 COACH HOKE: Well, you know, we're still going to be committed to run the football. I don't think there is any doubt about that. I think, you know, we did a couple things pretty decent tonight. But at the same time there are a couple of negative plays in the run game that you can't have. 

 Q. Can you talk about (No microphone)?
 COACH HOKE: Well, it's nice when you have a play maker like V.J., and, you know, things that he can do with the football. So I think that's a big plus with us. You know, at the same time, I think there are a lot of things we can do better in that part of our game. 

 Q. A lot of guys had their heads down surprisingly after this win. Do you feel good about the win? 
 COACH HOKE: Oh, it's good to win.

 Q. Do you feel good about the win? 
 COACH HOKE: You always feel good about the win, but we've got a long way to go. 

 Q. How do you feel about your running backs? 
 COACH HOKE: Well, obviously, Walter wants to have better ball security. We want Walter to have better ball security, and he will. He's a young kid. 
 I think the one on the goal line was, you know, the guy put his hat, I think, right on the football. So, you know, Walter, he'll bounce back. 
 I think Brandon made some vertical runs pretty good for us in there. Then I think Anthony, I thought he got a little more open room this week, so you could see a little bit more of him. 

 Q. You've talked about trying to establish one kind of lead back. At this point is Brandon your guy? 
 COACH HOKE: Yeah, I think so. I mean, he's the guy who has the most experience. I think all three guys, you know, and I think all of them will play, but I think right now he's the lead guy. 

 Q. (No microphone)?
 COACH HOKE: Basically, Walter probably in the last two weeks has done a little more, you know. He's got a little different speed than the other guys do. Little bit more of an acceleration through the hole. 

 Q. How did you like the atmosphere of San Diego State being your first game here? 
 COACH HOKE: Oh, it was great, you know. Believe me, we'd like to have the stadium full. But for those fans that were here and students that you could hear them. They got loud. Especially on the goal line stand that the defense had there at the end of the first half. 
 And I thought that was a huge play in the game, because you take some momentum away from them going into the locker room at halftime. We needed a little momentum ourselves. 

 Q. The kicking game last week was a tough part of it for you. Were you happier tonight especially with the coverages on kickoff? 
 COACH HOKE: Well, you know, I think the first one got out a little further than we'd like. But I thought we started covering a little better. We started reading blocks a little better and getting over the top. So, yeah, that was important. And, I think, I don't know how Brian punted, but I thought he did a good job. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT