MLB WORLD SERIES: NATIONALS VS ASTROS
October 22, 2019
Brian McCann
Evan Gattis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Now that you're retired, to come back and see some of your former teammates you're able to share a World Series title with, what's this moment going to mean to you?  
BRIAN McCANN: This is going to mean a lot. When Reid gave me the call, this is an opportunity I wasn't going to pass up to be able to come back and see these guys we got a chance to win a World Series with. Went in there and gave everybody a hug. And these are moments that you're going to remember for a long time.   
 Q.  Evan, how cool is this for you? And Brian, what is it going to be like to see -- if you've already seen some of your old teammates? You first, Evan.  
EVAN GATTIS: I'm blown away. I got here probably six minutes ago in an Uber. And I walked through the tunnel and seeing people I haven't seen in a long time, just I don't want to say random, but just people that I've known for the last four years, five years.   
It's a lot, it's overwhelming. It's really a lot to know that I'm out to go be with a bunch of guys that I won a World Series with, a first-rate Texas team in 2017. I'm blown away, I don't really know what to expect. I'm shocked.   
BRIAN McCANN: That's a big reason why I wanted to come back. These guys mean a lot to me in that clubhouse. We had two of the best years of my career here. It was just an amazing time. And to win a championship, those last forever.   
So these are my teammates in there and I'm cheering them on.   
 Q.  I don't know if you watched the ALCS and who you were rooting for.  
BRIAN McCANN: I was rooting for the Astros. When you win a championship somewhere it's special. It goes on forever. And I've got a lot of great friends with the Yankees, lifelong friends. And I met some amazing people there. But when you win a championship somewhere it's forever.   
 Q.  Brian, one more Yankees question. What do you remember about Gary Sánchez and him coming up and just the skill set that you saw?  
BRIAN McCANN: Phenomenal talent. You don't see catchers in our League being able to hit like he can hit. When he came up it was very evident that he was going to take over that job. So I went into that offseason and I was just hoping it was going to be the right team that I would go to. And when I came here and I got a chance to see the guys, I fell in love with this place.   
 Q.  For both. What was the most special thing about the 2017 Astros that you remember?  
BRIAN McCANN: The most special thing? Your teammates. Fans. That whole month of October, I mean, it doesn't get any better. You've got your family with you traveling everywhere, making memories that you'll have for a lifetime. Me and my wife and my kids, we talk about it still to this day about little things that happened here and there throughout the postseason that we still talk about.   
MODERATOR: Evan, how about you, any special memories here?   
EVAN GATTIS: It's hard to talk about, like, especially I got a taste of it in Atlanta. I actually got my opportunity to play, McCann had a right shoulder injury and I was planning to go down in a month and they kept me up. And I'm eternally grateful.   
It's a crazy full-circle event. That was my opportunity, and I was planning to go down to Triple-A in a month and that was my call-up to the big leagues. And I got a taste of it in '13 against the Dodgers. It was also a full-circle event to get beat in LA in Dodger Stadium and then to win a World Series in Dodger Stadium. And it means the world to me.   
After '13, I always was -- knew I'd be okay winning a World Series. And I just can't believe it happened. I still can't.   
Dr. Lintner performed the last surgery of my -- I've had four right knee surgeries, and he performed the last one. I texted him not too long ago, last week, and we were in the training room together, and whenever the last pitch was recorded, like the last out was recorded, and McCann like jumped into Charlie's arms, or however it happened, and then I'm looking at Lintner and I'm like, Can you believe what just happened? And he's been around NFL teams and he's seen a lot of things and seen how -- and he's like, This is so difficult to do. This is so difficult to win a World Series. The best team doesn't always win.   
Like, little moments. What I'm saying is like little moments that might seem little, that you make relationships for the rest of your life of winning a World Series with people. You can't say that very often.   
 Q.  Evan, what are you up to now? You hope to play again at some point?  
EVAN GATTIS: I'm not sure. I don't know. If I want to play I'll go play whether it be Double-A, Triple-A, big leagues, whatever. And if I want to play, I'll definitely show up and want to be the best I possibly can.   
But, no, not right now.   
It's hard to top winning a World Series. Now what? All-Star would have been cool. He's got a couple.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT