U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2019
Palmer Jackson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So 4-under on No. 4, first round of the U.S. Amateur.  Tied with the lead.  What does that bring out in you, what kind of comment does that solicit from you?  
PALMER JACKSON: Well you got to play pretty good out here to shoot something under par and I really managed the course well.   
And this is kind of like a qualifying round, to be honest, you got to just get through the next round and the lower you can go the better, the better seed you can get, then you're in good shape.  So I'm pretty proud of my performance today.   
 Q.  The birdies on the back nine, you made five.  That's a good side.  What did you do right?  
PALMER JACKSON: Yeah, I hit, I think I hit two or three shots within five feet and I made those putts.   
Then I made a long putt on No. 12 or birdie, which was like a steal.   
And I just really managed my mistakes.  I was able to save bogey on the one hole and really just keep the momentum going all day.   
 Q.  You had a smile on your face when we first started talking, almost like it could have been better.  Is that the case?  
PALMER JACKSON: Yeah, it is the case.  It's always the case though.  On the back nine I played really well, but I thought I made that putt on 18 for birdie, it would have been nice, but can't get greedy out here.   
 Q.  So did you see this coming, the good play, have you been playing well and it's just a translation of what you've been doing before?  
PALMER JACKSON: Yeah, I've been playing well, I've been, all parts of my game are in tact right now, I know what I'm doing, I'm confident in myself, so it was just a matter of time.   
 Q.  You're a young guy and you're doing good things on a big stage.  Is that something you're kind of surprised by or is it you're ready for it?  
PALMER JACKSON: Not really, I feel like I've worked a long time for this and really train all year and my confidence just builds up as I go.  It's exciting to see something pay off.   
 Q.  No. 2, that's where you got to keep it steady.  
PALMER JACKSON: Survive.   
 Q.  And it's probably good to have, it's kind of comforting, I guess, to have a good round on 4, knowing you got to play 2 tomorrow?  
PALMER JACKSON: Definitely.  My mentality tomorrow's going to be the same as today, just go out there, hit a lot of greens, focus on having a lot of opportunities, and taking advantage of some of those putts and I'll be in good shape.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT