TCS NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
October 30, 2014
Nick Arciniaga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  NICK ARCINIAGA:   Around the community, we have athletes with multiple levels of fitness.   Like Ryan Hall, Sara Hall, and a couple of guys just out of college, just trying to make it to that‑‑ past that sub‑elite type level.   We all go to the Tuesday night workouts and cheer on the community members.   They all know who we are.   And then at the same time, we have professional athletes who come to town, showing up to our runs that we host, just Sunday morning long runs or Thursday morning bagel runs.   
Last week we just had the Sacramento Running Association Group, and we had the New Balance Team with Kim.   So just every other week there's some new group or some new athlete coming to town, somebody new to train with.   It's always exciting for me because I like to run with different people a lot and just show them around and sometimes hammer them and make them hurt and show them what altitude is all about.   
And then there's also Ben Rosario's group, the NAZ Elite, which is a similar type structure to what McMillan and those types of groups.   We actually mesh when we can.   We had a group of marathons in October and September, so we did some long runs together and got some good workouts as well.   
   
 Q. Switching gears a little bit, at Boston, literally, I remember seeing at the press conference, filling out the contract then heading to the start line with Under Armour.   Just talk about your relationship with Under Armour and what they've done for your career since you signed with them earlier.   
NICK ARCINIAGA:   So my agent and I started talking with Under Armour beginning of April, end of March, and just started using their products and see how it could work and how it would hold up during the race.   I was nervous because I didn't get a good test because it was only three weeks before the actual race in Boston.   Signed the contract Friday after press conferences and then ran the race on Monday.   
The shoes, they held up, which covered my worries.   And every single day since then, I've been training on the same shoes, just kind of messing with the Flyweight gear and just starting to get some new products and innovations.   They've had me out to their headquarters or ask me questions about their clothing or about the shoes, what they need to improve, what I need.   
So it's been a nice little interactive experience with a big company like this.   They really want to get their foot in the door with the sport.   So it's been really exciting.  
   
 Q.   What shoes are you racing on Sunday?   
NICK ARCINIAGA:   SpeedForm RC Vent.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT