U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 27, 1997
Jimmy Powell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JIMMY POWELL:   Well, this golf course, as you know, is a marvelous golf course.   It's a true championship golf course, and you have to just think your way around it.  And I struck the ball very well today.  I think I hit almost every fairway.  I missed one fairway, and I think that's the key here is hitting it in the fairway.  You can't put it on the green if you don't.  Some of the targets are very small and coming out of that rough, you just will not hold the greens. But I putted well.  I hit a great shot on the last hole to save the round - a bunker shot - from must have been about 80 feet.  And it's always nice to finish up like that if you have a good round going.

JIMMY POWELL:   I'm 62.  I don't remember all that stuff.

JIMMY POWELL:   This is yesterday, isn't it?  Is this second round here?  Goodness.  First hole -- I only made three birdies today.  I birdied the first hole from about probably about 4 feet.  I hit a good little pitching wedge in there.  Actually, it was a sand wedge.  I birdied that -- I bogeyed the third hole, that's where I missed the fairway to the right, made a good bogey there, because my par putt went by the hole about 8 feet, and I made that one coming back.  Then I birdied the 9th hole from probably about 6, 7 feet.  And what is it?  -- The 13th hole par 3 -- 13 or 14.

JIMMY POWELL:   You didn't play today.

JIMMY POWELL:   14th hole, I birdied it, made a good putt there from 20 feet up over the rise and  very good lie to make that one.  Actually, I'd been happy to get down in two, but the hole got in the way, and thank goodness it did.

JIMMY POWELL:   Bogeys?  I made one bogey.  I bogeyed the third hole today.

JIMMY POWELL:   No, I've been playing well. I'm -- I figured somebody would probably get to 4- or 5-under, I thought they would here.  The golf course is in such tremendous shape.  The greens are beautiful, and I've been playing very well this whole past three, four months, and, no, I'm not surprised at all.  I just hope I stay there.


Q.  Was there a significant difference to either the hardness or the speed of the greens today compared to yesterday?

JIMMY POWELL:   No.  I think the greens, they're very consistent.  The USGA has done a wonderful job with that, and the greens are -- I don't know what the stamp is on them, but, you know, if you're below the hole, you have a good putt at a birdie.  Above the  hole, then you have got to be careful.


Q.  So even though there wasn't any rain, they played the same today as they did yesterday?

JIMMY POWELL:   I think so.  I played yesterday afternoon, and I think possibly the greens in the afternoon -- maybe a little bit slower because they'd had some time to grow, and early this morning, they could have been a little bit faster.


Q.  You're even par, and you're right in the thick of it.  The last few years in the Senior Open, that would have put you quite a bit back behind the leaders.  What's the difference between this Senior Open and the ones in the last two years?

JIMMY POWELL:   Well, I think, first of all, this golf course is a lot longer.  I don't know what we're playing it at, probably 68.  We played Canterbury last year, that's about 65.  This golf course is a lot longer, and I think basically that's the reason your scores are going to be a little bit higher because of the length.

JIMMY POWELL:   Thanks.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT