US OPEN
September 6, 1998
Jana Novotna
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Can you describe the state of your play right now, whether you're thinking about
going into the next match?

JANA NOVOTNA: I think it's very difficult to judge today how everybody is feeling. I'm
sure that you heard from players that it was quite windy out there. It was just very
difficult to play that kind of game you would like to play. But I think most of all, it's
very important that you just go out there and forget about the wind, and just try to win.
Don't play any spectacular points, don't play spectacular tennis. Just go out there, do
your job, just do it well. That's exactly what I did.

Q. Steffi Graf plays tonight. Obviously you don't know for sure who your next opponent
will be. If it is Steffi Graf, can you maybe assess that match-up, describe what you need
to do, the way Steffi is playing right now?

JANA NOVOTNA: Well, I have been talking about it the whole week. I think I'm sure that
everybody else did. I think that Steffi Graf is playing her best tennis after her
comeback. There's no question about it. Of course, she is facing a tough opponent tonight,
Patty Schnyder, who can obviously give her a hard time. I will just watch that match, go
back, sit down with my coach, just talk about the match I played against Steffi in New
Haven last week. Just try to learn from the mistakes I made over there. Just go into this
match, you know, as always.

Q. In the other bracket, Hingis and Seles play. Can you describe what your thoughts are
about that match-up, as an observer?

JANA NOVOTNA: Well, I don't know. It's really hard to say because I haven't seen either
of the players playing, you know, previous matches. I think it's going to be a very tough
battle. There's no question about it. Last time they met, it was in Montreal. Monica was
playing really well there, beat Martina in tough three sets. Difficult match-up for
Martina, difficult match-up for myself, no question about it. I always said, if you want
to go ahead and win Grand Slam tournaments, you have to beat the top players. I think that
is what it's all about, once you make it to the quarterfinals, you really don't have much
choice. You have to compete against the best players. This will be my attitude going into
the quarterfinals. I don't really care who is going to be there. I just want to keep on
playing well and just enjoy myself.

Q. How about today? Did you feel you were playing well, not so much?

JANA NOVOTNA: I said in the beginning. It's really difficult to time the ball, and it's
difficult. My game is pretty much about timing. I would say I played well enough to beat
Spirlea one more time today. I think that the matches I've had against her are getting
easier and easier. That is a good step forward. I would just say I played well enough to
win today. I really don't care how I played. I know I wasn't serving really big, didn't
have that many rallies from the back. Maybe it didn't look that good even, our tennis.
But, you know, that's not really that important. Every day is different.

Q. When you're in the process of a match, whether you're struggling or not struggling,
do you talk to yourself? Do you kind of coach yourself?

JANA NOVOTNA: I don't coach myself. I talk to myself all the time. Don't want to go
into the details.

Q. In which language, in Czech?

JANA NOVOTNA: You know what, that is the disadvantage. I'm spending too much time in
the US. I'm talking to myself in English, which is not good, because everybody can hear me
(laughter). You know, I just try to support myself and just correct myself sometimes.
That's what I do.

Q. Steffi is probably the player who has given you the most trouble in your career. Why
is that?

JANA NOVOTNA: I wonder myself. I don't know. I think it's because of the way she's
playing. I think it's because she has a pretty strong serve. She has a real weapon. She's
moving really well. She just hits the ball very hard. I must admit that I don't like to
play much against players who are hitting really hard, because they don't give me any time
to create on the court, you see. Sometimes, Steffi, Monica, Lindsay Davenport, they
sometimes become very overpowering, they hit the ball very deep. I don't get enough time
to create on the court, which is basically my game. They keep me too much back of the
court, and I can't really come in. All these three players that I've named, including
Steffi, they have a great serve. You know, that's a lot of pressure to deal with.

Q. Why are the matches against Spirlea getting easier? Are you figuring out her
strategy or are you playing your best tennis now?

JANA NOVOTNA: I think she's just getting more and more devastated, you know. I know how
that feels when you play somebody, and you can't beat them for a while. I've been playing
against Spirlea now for the sixth time, and she's never beaten me before. I know how
frustrating it must be going into matches like this. Basically all she can do is to hope I
will have a bad match. But for me as a top player, a player who is in charge of the game,
on top of that, it's very good. I'm going into the match already very confident knowing
that in order for her to beat me, she will have to come up with something completely new
or something different. I know that that's not her game. That's how it feels.

Q. Where in the world do you find the most pleasure in playing, just playing the game,
apart from winning or losing?

JANA NOVOTNA: That is such a simple answer. With us tennis players, it's usually like
this. I mean, wherever you do well, that's where you really like it. I played my best
tennis in different parts of the world. I like to play indoors. I like to play at
Wimbledon. There's no question about it. I just like the Grand Slam tournaments in general
because I just think that that is what it's all about. That's what the tennis game is all
about, playing Grand Slam tournaments. So pretty much like this.

Q. You said this is not your favorite tournament. Are you liking it any better now?

JANA NOVOTNA: You know what, I really think that I have learned how to like this
tournament more and more every year. I think that the facilities and the centre court and
everything else improved a lot. I think really for now, last two years, I do enjoy myself
much more on the hard court in New York than I ever did before. But nevertheless, really I
still must say that I'm still consistent, getting to the quarters or semis, that's really
consistent. I think I do need to change my attitude a little bit and say, "I love
this place." It will come back to me.

Q. When you're at a new Slam, how much do you think of Wimbledon still in your
day-to-day life? On the court, no, but outside, at the hotels, does it flashback through
your mind?

JANA NOVOTNA: No, not really. The good part was that I had some time off Wimbledon, and
I could just absorb everything, what's been going on during Wimbledon. I'm getting the
flashbacks when I'm still getting some congratulations from other players or people that I
haven't seen since Wimbledon. So this would be the flashbacks, or I'm seeing some pictures
from there. But pretty much nothing else. You know, it's still in me. I do feel that
enormous confidence, enjoyment. You know, I just have a different feeling inside me after
Wimbledon. I seem to carry that with me the whole day, if I'm on the court or not on the
court. That would be the only difference. Now I'm pretty much looking forward.

Q. When you say you're more confident off the court, you're more confident in your
dealings with people?

JANA NOVOTNA: No, I don't think that has anything to do with it. I'm just enjoying
myself so much more than I did before. It's no longer that kind of talk, you know,
"Come on, Jana, you're so talented, it's just the matter of winning a Grand Slam
anymore."

Q. You don't hear that anymore?

JANA NOVOTNA: No. It's like, I've done it, it's so great. So this would be the only
difference. It's the inner feeling inside of me that gives me that kind of
self-confidence, just pleasure.

Q. When you look at the list of players who are still in the tournament, how all the
seeds have done so well, what are your thoughts on what type of second week of tennis this
is going to be here?

JANA NOVOTNA: Very interesting, I hope. You know what, I haven't seen the draw just
like it is for a while now. I would need to take the time to look at it. Nevertheless, I
think all the seeds did extremely well in this tournament. Most of the time players got
through the second week. That's what I said in the beginning of this week, that this is
the most important thing for a seeded player. Just get into the second week, I think
that's when we usually start to play much better tennis than we do in the first week. Now
it's up to competing and just doing well in individual matches.

Q. Kournikova said yesterday she expects that a new face will win this tournament. Do
you expect the same thing?

JANA NOVOTNA: Absolutely (laughter). Oh, I don't know. It's so hard to say. I mean, it
would be really nice. I mean, it would be really nice. But the question is, Who do you
consider a new face? Somebody who never won a Grand Slam before? Somebody who didn't win
this title for some years? You know, it's going to be really interesting. I think this is
going to be a very interesting week. I think there is not that often in the history of
tennis you have such a large number, such a wide-open draw, where you can't really tell
who's going to win it. Because at this moment, nobody is like so dominant or so
overpowering that you can point at them and say, "This is going to be the
winner." I think that's what makes it really interesting. Is it going to be somebody
new? Is it going to be somebody who is a little bit older? Is it going to be a brand-new
star? That kind of guessing game is even interesting and very exciting for the players
itself.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT