PILOT PEN INTERNATIONAL
August 29, 1998
Jana Novotna
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Looked like you ran out of gas in that second set. 
 
 JANA NOVOTNA: Well, I think not only in the second set, I think that already in the
beginning of the match I was going into the match not feeling really 100%. Obviously I was
very tired from playing night matches and a lot of tennis this week simply. That simply is
impossible to play Steffi if I am at a stage like that. With her you have to be 100% sharp
and extremely quick around the court because she will just keep on hitting hard and run
you from one corner to another. So it has been awhile since I played her so it was good to
play her just before the Open just in case we have to play each other again so I am
prepared. 
 
Q. Are you okay other than just being tired, are you otherwise all right?
 
 JANA NOVOTNA: Yes. Do I look so bad? (Laughs) (laughter). 
 
Q. There was a streak there where you lost 16 of 18 points. I don't think I have ever
seen you do that against anyone.
 
 JANA NOVOTNA: I think I cannot give you any different answer than I did already the
first one I think, as I said, Steffi was on top of her game. She was playing extremely
well against Davenport last night. I could see she was running Lindsay from one side to
the other. Obviously that gave her a lot of confidence going into the finals and and she
is rested. She has been training very hard so, she is obviously prepared. That is about
it. 
 
Q. How far away is she from where she was before she was injured?
 
 JANA NOVOTNA: Well, I think to me the way she played today, I think that she is just
where she was when she stopped playing. Maybe a few points or a few things that she still
has to improve and she is almost there. But now the point is if she can do it from one
week to another or can she do it only -- how long she can keep it up that is another
thing. 
 
Q. You said playing doubles last night obviously took some stamina away from you.
 
 JANA NOVOTNA: Not only me playing doubles, I have been playing a lot of singles match
and I had some tough matches -- this is not an easy week, start so late 4 o'clock, five
o'clock playing night matches all that. If you don't get the hours before midnight, that
takes a lot of out of you. 
 
Q. But given that, did you come into this match confident, though?
 
 JANA NOVOTNA: Definitely. Of course. I was going into the final very confident. I was
very pleased the way I was playing during the whole week in the previous matches and I was
very confident. Only thing I knew that I may get a little tired. That is exactly what
happened. 
 
Q. Feel tired Jana when you went out on the court?
 
 JANA NOVOTNA: I felt tired already when I woke up this morning. I was like: Oh, boy, do
I have to play today. But it is good. It is only Saturday. That is the reason for a
Saturday final, I think that is very reasonable decision to do things like that and gives
me two days off just before the US Open starts. So I should recover pretty quickly and
just be ready for my next match. 
 
Q. What was your game plan going in? You seemed to want to play her at the net a lot.
 
 JANA NOVOTNA: Yeah, definitely. I wanted to come in a lot even though it is very
difficult. She kept me behind the baseline all the time, but nevertheless when I came in,
she was passing me all the time. She didn't have a pattern which is surprised me. She was
going with the backhand down the lines, crosscourt. She was mixing it up all the time;
that makes it difficult for me to read the passing shots and to be successful at the net. 
 
Q. What does it mean for tennis to have Steffi back the way she was and what does it
mean to you personally?
 
 JANA NOVOTNA: Well, I commented that on the court already. Well, it is really funny,
she is back, I have to play her and I lost again. (laughter) How am I supposed to feel
about that? Now, I know how Julie Halard feels when she has to play me. (Laughs) it is
pretty devastating. You just ask me about it last night and I was like, that is her
problem. She has got to deal with it. And now I am in the same situation, so I am like --
it feels really terrible. (Laughs). 
 
Q. The timeout there, was that a strategy move?
 
 JANA NOVOTNA: That was a very necessary timeout. (laughter). (Laughs) and if you wish
to go into the details you can sure go ahead, but.... 
 
Q. Had nothing to do with trying to slow down her momentum are?
 
 JANA NOVOTNA: It had something to do with not being embarrassed. 
 
Q. This Tour grind you made reference -- players make reference to it all the time,
tremendous grind of playing one tournament after another, one week after another and when
you are a top player like you are, you play more matches because you are deeper into a
tournament. How much does that mean going into the Open, I mean, you played a lot of
tennis not only this week, but been on a run here. What does that mean in terms of being
ready to play in the Open or in a Grand Slam? How much energy do you have? How difficult a
problem is it for a tennis player?
 
 JANA NOVOTNA: Let me check (makes muscle) Geez - a lot. Well, I think what is really
important is that you have to know your serves right. I think that now over the years I
think that I know myself very well. I know what I need before a Grand Slam or I know what
I need in order to play really well. As I told you, I didn't play for four weeks so I was
planning ahead to play these two tournaments just before the Open because I think that is
what I need and I need to play as many matches as I can just before a Grand Slam. Because
practice sessions are completely different from playing matches. That was my goal. I was
very pleased the way I played in Montreal. Very happy to get to the finals here and even
though I seem to be really tired now, don't forget, the beginning of the US Open is really
very slow. I mean, you have one day in between, so, it takes me couple of days to recover.
I know that I had the preparation that I needed to have just before the Open. I think what
is important now to get a little bit of a practice, make some corrections and just get
some rest and just look forward to play every other match. 
 
Q. This tournament has been kind of shaky for the last few years. Do you think it is on
pretty solid footing right now?
 
 JANA NOVOTNA: Well, I think -- you know, I am pretty sure that it is. I talked about it
yesterday already. I think that a tournament site is very nice. I think it is a little bit
difficult to get the fans interested in coming during the week. That is why we have to
start in such a late hour so that is more convenient for the public, less convenient for
the players. But I think that this tournament is on a solid ground and I am sure that we
will have this tournament for many, many more years. 
 
Q. What time did your doubles match finish yesterday?
 
 JANA NOVOTNA: I don't even know. Around 10:30 I think. 
 
Q. The doubles matches are going to have a definite bearing on your ranking,
doubles-ranking. How important is that to you?
 
 JANA NOVOTNA: Absolutely. I am going for the No. 1 ranking this week, so, if I keep on
winning hopefully I can be number one again so that was not really, really important, but
always was to be good the best player in the world. 
 
Q. What about the singles No. 1 ranking? You have been --
 
 JANA NOVOTNA: Who cares about singles? Doubles! That is it. (makes fist). 
 
Q. You have been close obviously?
 
 JANA NOVOTNA: Too much. 
 
Q. -- You achieved one of your goals which is the Wimbledon title, have a Slam. Is the
No. 1 singles ranking is that a goal for you?
 
 JANA NOVOTNA: Well, I think that the No. 1 ranking always comes with achieving other
goals. I think if your goal is to play well next week or if your goal is to get to the
semifinals or your goal is to win the US Open, that ranking will automatically follow your
results. I don't think you have to necessarily focus on becoming No. 1 player in the
world. I think all you have to do is focus on playing really well. Beating the top players
and getting as far as you can in the tournament. If you do that and if you can little by
little achieve that, then I am sure that the No. 1 ranking can come. But I always said
that also there are so many factors involved that other players can play well and they
can, you know, get more points than you do, so it is not only -- it is not only
necessarily up to you how well you can do. 
 
Q. If you were to get there, would it be --
 
 JANA NOVOTNA: It would be. 
 
Q. -- Satisfying?
 
 JANA NOVOTNA: Absolutely. When I won a Grand Slam, yes, it would be absolutely very
satisfying. I always said in order to become No. 1 player in the world you need to win a
Grand Slam. I don't think it is fair like in the men's tennis Rios became No. 1 player in
the world without winning a Grand Slam tournament. But things happen and now I would feel
very, very satisfied if that would happen for me. 
 
Q. You have quite a few points to defend after the Open this year. Winning the champ --
if you defend your points and you are close to the No. 1 ranking, would you consider
playing the Australian Open?
 
 JANA NOVOTNA: That is a good question. No. Too far. (Laughs) too far. 
 
Q. You have no points, no point there -- February, March?
 
 JANA NOVOTNA: I know. I have nothing. You know, what that is really interesting
question. I really would have to think about it. I think that would be a great possibility
that I would go and do that, yeah. Okay, I will come. (Laughs) 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT