CHASE CHAMPIONSHIPS OF THE COREL WTA TOUR
November 22, 1997
Jana Novotna
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Jana, well done, obviously coming back from a breakdown in the first set, that was a crucial stage where it turned in your favor?

JANA NOVOTNA:   Yes, absolutely it was very important.  I was a little worried because I made two easy mistakes to lose the serve and I knew I would have to be really consistent with the serve because Irina has a great serve on her own.  I was really glad that I could get the break back.  I guess, I was stronger in the beginning of the first set and that was really the most important point.


Q.  And then when you got the tiebreak under your belt, it seemed to get a little easier?

JANA NOVOTNA:   Absolutely, I was so relieved that I made the tiebreaker, because I knew for Irina to play such a long match, it's going to be really hard, I knew she would be a little bit tired and I just started to play with more confidence, was serving much better. 


Q.  Tomorrow, Mary Pierce?

JANA NOVOTNA:   I'm looking forward to it so much.  This is really a dream come true for me, because as I told you before, I always wanted to play this tournament and I always loved this place, and I wanted to make it to the finals, place best of 5, see how it really feels.  I'm looking forward to it so much.


Q.  How different do you approach a best of five set match when you're going into it for the first time?

JANA NOVOTNA:   Well, I guess this is not the best preparation to go and play the doubles final, but there is nothing I can do about it.  I think, physically, I'm strong enough to handle that, and just mentally, we will just go for it.  I know that we both are not going to get into heavy rallies, because we knew that we know we're not going to last.  You will see much more winners, much freer tennis for sure.


Q.  You don't think we're going to have a repeat of last year, when it was the walking wounded with Hingis and Graf?

JANA NOVOTNA:   Let me tell you, anything is possible in tennis, and I think this tournament was no exception.  And with so many comebacks and so many players falling to unexpected upsets.  So anything is possible, just be here tomorrow when you will see for  your own eyes.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT