U.S. OPEN
September 8, 1996
Jana Novotna
Arantxa Sanchez Vicario
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. What kind of rivalry is that now when you play those two? I mean, how intense is it,
the whole thing?

JANA NOVOTNA: It is always very intense and always I must say that as a gentlemen said
off the court, we play always the exciting matches, I felt today that we started the match
really well. We had a really good chance and unfortunately, I played a couple of bad
points there at the end of the third set and I think that was really - they got really
lucky there on a few points that is why they won, but otherwise, I thought it was a really
good doubles and we played very well, very steady and unfortunately they were lucky enough
to win the third set.

Q. After you won the first set so easily, did you think you might be able to bolt
through or what do you think turned it around at the beginning of the second? 

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, I think that like Jana said, the first set started
really strong and we made our shots. Second, there were a few points that were very long
and they come, you know, on her side, we lost the second set and, you know, and then the
third set, we have our chances and, you know, you should take those opportunities,
otherwise they are a good team and, you know, they get lucky on a few points and they come
back winning the match, but I think that, you know, it was a good match and we always have
kind of like a tough, you know, three set matches and we always, you know, doing good
tennis, and unfortunately, you know, they always at the end, they were a lot more lucky.

Q. Five of the six set scores were 6-1 previous match, they were all 6-1?

JANA NOVOTNA: We are specializing in that now because everybody were like you are
winning too closely the first set, so, we decide why don't we go from it right from the
beginning. That is what we are doing now. That is in fashion now.

Q. Are you going to keep playing together or has too much been made?

JANA NOVOTNA: We do have with Arantxa. We have a commitment 'til the end of the year
then, of course, we have to sit down and because as, you know, the ranking system will
probably change, so, there will be a different schedule, so, we will have to sit down and
talk about what is going to happen next year.

Q. How are you getting along? 

JANA NOVOTNA: Did you watch the match?

Q. No.

JANA NOVOTNA: Did you like it?

Q. I meant aside from the match, I meant in here.

JANA NOVOTNA: I think we are getting along really well. I hope it showed on the court.
I think whoever watches our matches, they can tell what is happening.

Q. Will you guys play together next year?

JANA NOVOTNA: I just answered that question. We said that we will finish the end of the
year. That is what we have and we will sit down and decide what is happening next year for
both of us.

Q. Why do you think you two have done so well together? What do you think you bring as
a team?

ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO: Well, I think that we have kind of different games that we are
trying to put everything together and we have been playing better every year and I guess
we communicate pretty good and we are doing very well and I guess that we are a good team.
That is what counts, to play good doubles.

Q. You are going to play the Corel, you are going to play?

JANA NOVOTNA: Championship and probably one or two indoor tournaments, whatever.

Q. We will see you in November. See you back in New York.
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT