U.S. OPEN
August 29, 1996
Jana Novotna
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. In the first set, you seemed to be remarkably in control. Was it a little too easy
for you, the first set?

JANA NOVOTNA: Hi, by the way. Nice to see you.

Q. How you doing?

JANA NOVOTNA: I started out the first set really well. I was feeling that I was playing
much better than I was -- than I was playing in the first match. I think the reason why I
started to play so poorly in the second set was because I just suddenly at 2-All felt sick
in my stomach. From that point I just was hanging in there. I just couldn't get into the
rhythm. My serve was completely off. I was really worried if I would be able to finish the
match. I took the bathroom break fortunately, so that eased up a little bit. I just have
decided to come in after everything, and I worked. That was the way out of there.

Q. Speaking of the serve, at least in the first set, there seemed to be a lot of miles
per hour even in the first serve. Obviously your stomach muscle was totally recovered from
Atlanta.

JANA NOVOTNA: I'm not sure if it's totally recovered because this is the kind of injury
that takes a long time. I never had this before. It's been already like more than three
weeks. After each match, I still feel that. I think this is the type of injury which will
take a very long time. It can also easily come back. It's something you really have to
work on all the time. It really took me two weeks. I couldn't play for two weeks after the
Olympics, so it was a pretty serious injury. I was a bit worried that the preparation
before the Open wouldn't be as ideal as I would have liked to. In the end, it turned out
to be okay.

Q. And the illness today, was it something you ate, the heat?

JANA NOVOTNA: I don't know. I never eat here because I know there is a lot of food
poisoning going on all the time, every year. I don't eat here. It was maybe that I ate too
little. I was being just full from drinking so much water, you know. I don't know. It was
strange. I only had a banana before the match. I don't know what else it could be, but it
happened. I'm glad that it's over. Hopefully it won't happen again. 

Q. You've been in so many Grand Slams. At this point in the Grand Slam, is it an
advantage or a benefit for a player to have a walkover, thus only playing six matches? Is
it good or bad?

JANA NOVOTNA: It really depends. Depends what kind of shape you are in and all that.
Are you talking about what happened to Monica?

Q. Yes.

JANA NOVOTNA: Or in general?

Q. Her, but in general does it help?

JANA NOVOTNA: I think this is pretty much in the very early stages of the tournament. I
think that the top player would be happier to have a match instead of a walkover. That's
what I would say. You really want to play as much as you can, get your rhythm going and
all that. Since she is not playing doubles, I'm sure she wanted to play.

Q. Monica says you are one of the favorites to win the tournament. What is your
opinion?

JANA NOVOTNA: That's very nice. I'm glad that everybody considered me that way. Of
course, it's a long way to go. If you look at the draw or the part of the draw I am in,
it's very tough. Of course, I always say if you want to win a Grand Slam or if you want to
win this tournament, you have to beat all the top players. In order to do that, you have
to be in good shape and you have to play well.

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT