U.S. OPEN
September 4, 1995
Jana Novotna
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Jana, are you ready for Monica?

JANA NOVOTNA: Well, I just finished my match, so, not quite. But hopefully, tomorrow or
whenever I have to play, I will be ready, yes. I am looking forward to that match, very
much, yes. So hopefully, I will play well, she will play well and we can compete on a high
level.

Q. When did you last play Monica?

JANA NOVOTNA: Oh, a long time ago. Can't even remember where was it exactly, but I
can't tell you, really. Have to look it up.

Q. Are you happy with your game now?

JANA NOVOTNA: Yes, I have been playing very, very well during the whole tournament
perhaps today's matche was a little bit difficult; otherwise I am very happy.

Q. Why was today's match difficult?

JANA NOVOTNA: I don't know. I didn't feel so much comfortable. I never played this girl
before so maybe perhaps that was one of the reasons. Anyway, I feel very good.

Q. What is going to be the key with Monica? Nobody has been able to push her real hard.
What does somebody have to do to make her play harder?

JANA NOVOTNA: Well, I always felt that, you know, I have the game to play against her,
because not too many players these days can serve and volley, or can -- they cannot mix up
the game, so hopefully, I will be able to do that and I think it also will depend how well
Monica will handle it; how well she will handle my approaches and, you know, return of
serve, so I hope and I believe that I have the game to beat her and as I said, I hope I
feel well and we both play well.

Q. You played well against Mary Pierce by breaking up the action. Is it a similar type
of approach?

JANA NOVOTNA: Yes, about. Except I would say the little disadvantage will be that
Monica is a left-hander, so left-hander return of serve will be a little harder. She can
always push me a little wide on that court, but as I said, I will have some return her
serves and hope I can handle that. 

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT