THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 15, 1994
Jana Novotna
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Are you surprised by what happened today with Natalia?

 JANA NOVOTNA:  I am not really surprised.  I know Natalia pretty
well.  I know that she is a tough player and if she has a good
day she can beat anybody.  I think it was kind of a difficult
match, nervous match, a lot of service breaks and I guess we both
felt like, you know, we want to get to the semis and all that,
but, you know, I was not able to be decisive at the important
moments and that is what hurt me, that I was not able to finish
her off when there was the chance. Like at 6-5 in the first set,
I served 2 set points and came back from 3-5.  Then I am serving
for the set, nothing really special happened.  I sort of always,
like, holding back.  I don't know what the reason is for it. 
Maybe the way she plays because she plays so - every game or every
point is different.  One is high loop.  The other is slice, and
she can pass one hand.  She is passing with both hands.  She is
a difficult player to play.  But I still believed that I should
be able to handle that because I have beaten Natalia before.

 Q.  When you say there were nerves, where did the nerves come
from?

 JANA NOVOTNA:  I don't know.  It just happens.  I have been playing
quite well and in the tournament, and somehow today I couldn't
get going; couldn't get excited, and sort of like being on the
top of it, and that sometimes happens.  It is going to happen
in the first round, going to happen any time. Just very difficult
to deal with that.  Not really nerves, but sort of like, you never
really, start going and fighting and playing and all that.

 Q.  I seemed to notice after the first set tiebreaker she
seemed to be walking to the side line --

 JANA NOVOTNA:  I don't know what was wrong, actually. I started
to play a little better.  I was much more aggressive in the beginning
of the second set and then 3-Love I heard that she is complaining
that she is sick, but I don't really know she was sick or she
was not sick, or what was wrong with her.  So she started to argue
there and took some time off then she called the trainer and all
that.  That is all distracting for sure.  But I should be able
to do something with a 4 love lead.  At that time when somebody
starts to play for one shot, either because she was tired or sick
or whatever, then that is very difficult.  That is unpredictable.
 I had a good serve and she hits a winner.  I do that and she
misses it.  You know, it is like you never know.

 Q.  I am wondering about your French Open preparation.

 JANA NOVOTNA:  Yes, it will be about the same like last year.
 I am planning to play two clay court tournaments before.  It
will be in Hamburg and Berlin and I will take a week off before
the French Open and you know, try to do as I did last year, so
that will be about the same.

 Q.  What about -- for the French Open program they are wondering
about the top women players who they most hate to play?

 JANA NOVOTNA:  I don't have anybody like that.  Really clay is
very reasonable surface to play on with everybody, so, well I
assume it is going to be difficult to play against somebody who
can bring the ball 20 times over the net, but you know, the French
clay is very fast.  It is not slow as Argentina or Spain or anywhere
else, so you know, you can still pretty much play your own game.
 So I don't really have a name who I would like to meet there
at all.

 Q.  This was your first singles event in, I guess, since quite
awhile?

 JANA NOVOTNA:  First outdoor.

 Q.  How are you doing physically?

 JANA NOVOTNA:  I am doing pretty well.  I think I look fit and
I feel fit, so I am doing quite well.  I feel great.

 Q.  No more problems with the injury?

 JANA NOVOTNA:  I took care of that since then I got myself in
good shape.  Physically I feel perfect. 

  End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT