U.S. OPEN
September 5, 1993
Jana Novotna
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What happened, Jana?

JANA NOVOTNA:  Nothing was working today at all.  So it was a bit difficult.  I started pretty well.  Then I couldn't get my rhythm and I didn't find it the whole match.  So it was difficult.  I didn't find my forehand.  When I came in I was not very successful.  There was not much that left that I could do there, except fighting and trying hard. That is what I did until the end, but it was not enough against her today.


Q. You seemed to have more success at the net and yet there were times when you seemed tentative to come in.

JANA NOVOTNA:  Yeah, she kept me pretty far in the back, so it was difficult to come in and then I finally did.  I was not successful at all.  So it was not very encouraging, but it is one of those days.


Q. Jana, is there any reason why nothing was working?

JANA NOVOTNA:  I don't know.  I was warming up today. I was playing quite well.  Didn't practice much yesterday because of my sprained ankle and, you know, was a little better today, but I don't know.  I was hitting well, feeling well, being excited to play the match.  Just when I got there, started to play after few games everything started to disappear.


Q. When did you hurt your ankle?

JANA NOVOTNA:  During the doubles in Friday match.


Q. Was it bad?

JANA NOVOTNA:  Yeah, it was pretty bad sprain.  It was all swollen so I couldn't do much yesterday. Today it was a little better.  I said forget about it.  Play hard, do what you can, but nothing really worked.


Q. How disappointing is this for you?

JANA NOVOTNA:  Well, I think it is disappointing to, you know, to lose in this round.  I had a good chance to get in the quarters and all that; on the other hand, this is the toughest tournament I lost, there is nothing bet else I could do.


Q. Wrap up your year for us.

JANA NOVOTNA:  Very good year.  That is how I would comment on that.  Very consistent; great Wimbledon; great year, so I have I had good indoor season, which I like the most.  I have few tournaments to play before the Masters in November, so I'm looking forward to that.


Q. What is your next tournament?

JANA NOVOTNA:  That would be Leipzig in Germany.


Q. When you say this is the toughest tournament, what do you mean, on the court to win, or handling all the other things that go along with that?

JANA NOVOTNA:  I don't know.  Am I the only one who says that?  Because everyone keeps talking about. I don't know what is difficult to understand about it.  Just the surrounding and everything is very hard.


Q. Do you like New York?

JANA NOVOTNA:  I like New York for a week.  Second week it is always difficult.


Q. Are other women talking about it among themselves?

JANA NOVOTNA:  Everybody.


Q. Jana, is a loss like this tougher to except especially after the success you had at Wimbledon?

JANA NOVOTNA:  No.  Not really.  I know it in my heart that I did everything I could and there is nothing I can do about it.  If I would -- it was pretty unfortunate because I was hitting the ball quite well, but unfortunately the Friday injury didn't help much and you know, I just have to take it as it is; not think about it too much and just start to work hard again.


Q. Do you have any sense how this is going to hamper you in the doubles?

JANA NOVOTNA:  But I lost the doubles.


Q. I am sorry.

JANA NOVOTNA:  Because of that, so that is about it.


Q. Anything else in English?


Q. What are you going to do now immediately?

JANA NOVOTNA:  Relax, finally.


Q. Thank you.  


End of FastScripts....


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT