U.S. OPEN
September 1, 1993
Jana Novotna
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. This seemed like a pretty easy match for you.  Can you describe how you played today?
 
JANA NOVOTNA:  Yeah, well, I did expect a little tougher match.  I was ready for that.  I just found that I have made so many unforced errors. She was missing a lot.  I tried to mix it up, the game.  That is what I did.  It was a little bit -- I think, generally, I did well. 
 

Q. Are you feeling pretty confident this U.S. Open round; it seems like you are doing very well?
 
JANA NOVOTNA:  Yeah, so far.  This is just the second  round, and you know, I am happy to win every match, so I feel pretty good; looking forward to have a day off tomorrow and, you know, put my game to a higher level and then be ready to play the third round. 
 

Q. Any one or two things that you may be working on, specifically at the third round?
 
JANA NOVOTNA:  Definitely it will be my forehand.  I think that I still need to work on that and, of course, my serve, because, you know, I need too. 
 

Q. Have you thought at all about a rematch with Steffi in the semis here?
 
JANA NOVOTNA:  Well, I think I made a mistake that the only thing I did was that I told the Czech press not to ask me anything about the draw because I never look at the draw; who I have to play.  Now that you are here already, I am not going to answer that because that is too far ahead.  There is no way I am thinking that far at the moment. So don't say anything about the draw anymore. 
 

Q. Getting to the finals of Wimbledon and getting as close as you did to winning that tournament, what has that done for your confidence here?  
 
JANA NOVOTNA:  It improved it a lot. 
 

Q. How?  In what ways?
 
JANA NOVOTNA:  You know, when I was a child I never dream of getting through the finals of Wimbledon and finally when I made it this year, it was such a boost for me because not only did I beat two top ten players on the way to the final, but also the way I played, you know, and the way I handled the whole situation, so it gave me a lot of confidence and I hope it shows. 
 

Q. Thank you.     


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT