EVERT CUP
March 9, 1999
Jana Novotna
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  How did it feel out there?  Pretty good today? 
 
JANA NOVOTNA:  I felt pretty good out there today.  No question about it.  Although I must say it's never easy to play an opponent that you never played before.  Yeah, I guess I was pretty solid in the first set, didn't make any mistakes, then really just started to play much better.  She was serving pretty well, pretty much the whole second set.  You know, just one break, but comfortable win for me.  Not bad at all.  
 

Q.  How is the golf going? 
 
JANA NOVOTNA:  I haven't been playing yet.  I came from Florida, so I had plenty of golf there.  Here I'm to do my job.  When I get back home to Florida, then I can enjoy the golf again. 
 

Q.  Where in Florida are you?
 
JANA NOVOTNA:  Boca Raton. 
 

Q.  I'm writing a fashion column on what the tennis players are wearing.  How do you decide what you're going to wear?
 
JANA NOVOTNA:  Well, I guess it's pretty much a decision between you and your sponsors, your manufacturer. 
 

Q.  Who is your sponsor?
 
JANA NOVOTNA:  Prince.  I always look for something which is very comfortable, light material, something not very heavy, not very tight, bright colors. 
 

Q.  Bright colors?
 
JANA NOVOTNA:  Bright colors. 
 

Q.  What are your colors?
 
JANA NOVOTNA:  My bright colors would be probably  - I don't know - like black, Red. 
 

Q.  The contrast of black and Red?
 
JANA NOVOTNA:  The contrast.  Because of my face, I always find that I look better in darker colors, something like that.  
 

Q.  I just spoke to Venus.  She likes form-fitting clothes. 
 
JANA NOVOTNA:  Yeah, we can see that (laughter).  That's pretty obvious. 
 

Q.  But you like a looser style?
 
JANA NOVOTNA:  You see, I consider myself the older generation.  I just don't want to look silly, if I would wear the same clothes like Venus would.  I guess you just have to go with the age, with something that you feel comfortable in.  Of course, you must have the body also.  I'm not saying that I don't have the body (laughter).  
 

Q.  Do you work closely with Prince?  Do you tell them you like the colors black and Red?
 
JANA NOVOTNA:  Absolutely, yes, we do.  We do have a very long and very good relationship.  We do talk about it all the time.  
 

Q.  Prince has been going through quite a few changes here in America.  Does that affect you or bother you in any way?
 
JANA NOVOTNA:  Well, I don't think it affects me in any way.  It doesn't bother me.  The only thing is that I have been used to working with certain people for a number of years, always had a very close relationship.  Yeah, they going through some changes right now.  Haven't met the new people, but I'm sure that they will take as good care of me as they did in the past.  I do not worry about it at all. 
 

Q.  Away from your tennis clothes, do you have a favorite designer you like?
 
JANA NOVOTNA:  Sure.  So this is not about tennis, I see. 
 

Q.  Who is your favorite designer?
 
JANA NOVOTNA:  Giorgio Armani, Donna Karin and Calvin Klein, sure. 
 

Q.  So you're a minimalist?
 
JANA NOVOTNA:  I like Giorgio Armani, very simple, very stylish clothes, nothing too creative.  
 

Q.  Back to tennis. 
 
JANA NOVOTNA:  Sorry, ladies.  
 

Q.  What are your thoughts on playing Steffi in the next round?
 
JANA NOVOTNA:  I have to play Steffi next round?  I guess she was pretty impressive today, wasn't she (laughter)?  
 

Q.  Did you watch it?
 
JANA NOVOTNA:  Nee.  I saw her too many times.  I don't have to watch it anymore.  I saw a little bit actually.  I was watching on TV actually.  I guess she played pretty well beating Sugiyama 6-Love, 6-1.  But, you know what, playing Steffi, I have done that so many times.  I guess I will just have to stick to the routine and just do what I do the best, which is being aggressive, and just hopefully we'll have a good match, we both will. 
 

Q.  Do you know your record against Steffi?
 
JANA NOVOTNA:  No, I don't.  I don't even want to know it. 
 

Q.  I won't tell you, then. 
 
JANA NOVOTNA:  You won't tell me?  Don't, no.  It like 31-3 (laughter).  
 

Q.  Will you have a certain strategy against her?
 
JANA NOVOTNA:  Sure, I will have a strategy.  I will think about it, remember how I played her when I beat her.  That's what I will try to do.  Of course, every day and every match is different.  I don't know if she's going to come up with something new or no.  Nevertheless, I'm looking forward to that actually.  I'm looking forward to that match.  It's been a while we didn't play since the Championship last year.  Should be interesting.  
 

Q.  Do you watch a lot of films, movies?
 
JANA NOVOTNA:  Not really.  I'm not a TV person.  But go ahead. 
 

Q.  I was going to ask you for an Oscar pick. 
 
JANA NOVOTNA:  No, I wouldn't tell you that.  Somebody asked me already actually.  I didn't see any of them.  No, I didn't see any of those movies.  
 
Q.  Do you drink much orange juice?
 
JANA NOVOTNA:  One glass in a the morning.  
 

Q.  And Steffi?
 
JANA NOVOTNA:  I just said that.  I just said I'm going to be aggressive.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT