ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
July 3, 2019
Roddy Estwick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Coming in, you didn't have a lot of preparation for this team.  It's a new coaching squad in many ways.  I know a lot of you have worked with the team before.  Would you have liked more time with the team before the World Cup?  
RODDY ESTWICK: You always want more time.  Unfortunately we didn't have more time.  We had to work with what we had.  Looking back over the eight games that we played, I mean I personally thought that we should have won four of those.  We were very, very close.  We just didn't play the big moments well.  And hopefully we can learn from that and we can move forward and we can plan for the next one.   
 Q.  In terms of the team itself, obviously there's been two really close chases where you guys didn't quite go over the line.  How is the mood in the camp heading into this one after those losses?  
RODDY ESTWICK: Surprisingly, driving down from Durham, after the loss, surprisingly the mood in the camp was still good.  The boys on the bus were still playing dominos, the spirit in the dressing room was tremendous.  And that can only serve us well going forward. So we're happy from that point of view.  Obviously we're not happy losing games.  But we started to build something, and once we can remain patient and we can keep building.  Young players are coming through, and once that keeps happening then things will get a lot better.   
 Q.  Pooran has been batting at four and five because of his form as much as anything.  But he never made a professional 100 before the other game.  Have you seen him improve as a batsman throughout this tournament?  
RODDY ESTWICK: Yes, I've always believed in Nicholas.  I went to Dubai with him and I saw him play the best white ball innings I've every seen anybody play.  He got 148 in a youth World Cup game against Australia out of 208. So I'm not surprised by his talent.  What's surprised me is it's taken as long as this to really come through.  And I hope that he can build on this now and he can really cement his place for a very long time.   
 Q.  Obviously this World Cup hasn't gone exactly as you planned, but what can you take out of this final game and what would you like to see from the team?  
RODDY ESTWICK: Well, only walking in here a couple of minutes ago I remember our backs were against the wall against England (Leeds Test). We had lost badly at Birmingham.  Everybody was saying the final day that we were going to lose to England badly as well.  We chased 380 down.  So hopefully tomorrow with backs against the wall we can come up with that kind of performance and we can finish on a high.   
 Q.  You've used as many as four different players at the opening slot.  Would you put that instability down to some of the problems within the team?  
RODDY ESTWICK: Yes, if you look at most of the teams in the World Cup, they had the same opening partnership, but that wasn't down to form; that was down to people being injured and all those different things. You're not going to cry, but obviously missing Evin Lewis to injury, missing Russell to injury as well does hamper the team a bit.  But you've got to be able to deal with things like that over a long period of time.  So we really can't put it down as an excuse.  We just didn't play the big moments well, like I said.   
 Q.  In terms of fitness, can you give us a fitness update?  Kemar missed the last one.  
RODDY ESTWICK: That wasn't an injury; he was sick.  He was out today.  He had to bowl today.  So hopefully he should be fit and ready for tomorrow.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT