TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 6, 2018
Demarcus Felton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. When you look at this defense from Texas, what do you see?
DEMARCUS FELTON: They are very physical and it's not going to be an easy game.  We've got to come with it this, this game, in order to get a W.
Q. From the offensive perspective, how different is it when you start the game with Bowman and at half-time you're making that change to Jett?  Is that a difficult switch for you guys or is it just next-play-up?
DEMARCUS FELTON: It's not a difficult switch at all.  It's just the next player up, and you know, we have more options with Jett and more plays to run and it just opens up the playbook.
Q. How would you describe how the energy is different for a night game, obviously hosting Texas who is a big rival and it's Senior Night, too.  Are you guys talking about that?
DEMARCUS FELTON: Yes, we are very hyped about the night game opportunity to play again in the Jones and have the fans rocking and loud like we need them to be on every game.
Q. Have you let it sink in your mind a little bit what it's going to be like for you on Senior Night?
DEMARCUS FELTON: Yes, there's going to be a lot of tears being shed that night, being our last game in the Jones.
Q. Who is the most likely to cry?
DEMARCUS FELTON: Probably everybody.  Probably everybody, because we've got a lot of -- it's a brothership, and you know, we've all shared that bond with each other.  It's going to be a little tough that night but to end it off with a win, it will be great.
Q. Do you think Jett's shown a lot of improvement the couple weeks?
DEMARCUS FELTON: Yes, he's been working hard at practice and you know, working at his craft.  We trust in him and we trust in the playbook.
Q. What's his leadership like in the locker room?
DEMARCUS FELTON: He mean, he's a great leader and you know, we countdown on him with everything and what decision he makes or what decision the coaches make.  You know, we go from there.
Q. Just with everything that you've overcome in your career and being in a position to make a decision on whether you wanted to go or whether you wanted to stay, when you look back, how happy are you with this decision that you made and being able to be here and celebrate tomorrow or this weekend with your brothers?
DEMARCUS FELTON: I'm very happy.  You know, it just finishing what you started, and I'm big on that.  You know, anything I start, I want to finish it.  Having an opportunity to finish it, where I started, which is in the Jones, is more than a blessing.
Q. What's the best piece of advice that you're going to gave a Tata (ph) and SaRodorick, since they are at the beginning of their careers?
DEMARCUS FELTON: Just play their game and trust the process.  Don't go away from it.  As long as you trust the process, it will be all right.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT