TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 8, 2018
Demarcus Felton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Texas Tech - 77, Lamar - 0.   
 Q.  DeMarcus, how did that feel today for you, for a guy that was ready to leave but decided to stay and kind of paid for that a little bit today, didn't you?  
DEMARCUS FELTON: It felt good.  I mean, that's the reason why I came back, to be with these group of coaches and my teammates.  They're like my brothers, and the way we contributed to that win, it was a big win for us to get us back on track.   
 Q.  Did you know at the start of the week you were going to be playing today, or did you get the one reps starting Tuesday?  
DEMARCUS FELTON: No, sir, it was just next guy up.  We compete every day in practice and everything, and injuries ended up happening, so now it's just next guy up, and the talent never falls.   
 Q.  I noticed in the game you had (indiscernible) for just a little bit and obviously you were back.  Is that something that you have looked at, something serious?  
DEMARCUS FELTON: No, it's nothing serious.  Running back, you get bruised up for a little bit, but you've got to be tough to play that position and take on them type of hits.   
 Q.  How much do you think this game kind of with everything going on and just young, especially offensively, young offense, with McLane out, a young quarterback, how do how much do you think having this game at this point of the season helps you to get ready to go into conference play?  
DEMARCUS FELTON: It was very helpful.  Having that whole offensive line starting again for us that came back, it's very helpful.  Having a young quarterback in there, too, keeping him calm and poised under that pressure to where they can make the plays we know they can make.  Lamar was a good team, we don't put nothing past them, it's just today was our day.   
 Q.  How do you think Bowman played in the second half?  
DEMARCUS FELTON: Bowman played real good.  He stepped up.  It's the next man up.  When one man goes down, next man has to step up and be ready, and he showed us that he was ready to lead this team.   
 Q.  How about Jett?  What did you think of his play in the second half?  
DEMARCUS FELTON: Jett, same way, next man up.  When he got his shot, he showed y'all flashes of what he can do when he has the ball in his and and when he's throwing the ball.  It's just penalties came into effect, but he showed y'all flashes of what he can do.   
 Q.  Are the penalties effort penalties, or are they just lack of focus?  What do you think is the cause for all that?  
DEMARCUS FELTON: That's a question you've got to ask Coach Kingsbury.  I can't really give you the answer on that one.   
 Q.  But you're very glad you came back, aren't you?  
DEMARCUS FELTON: Yes, sir, very glad I came back.   
 Q.  Are all three quarterbacks starting to impress you a little bit?  
DEMARCUS FELTON: Yes, sir.  Going into the fall, the players didn't know who was going to start because the competition was so tight, so it just came down to that first game, and then McLane got the starting job, then unfortunately he got hurt, so then Bowman had to step up, and God forbid if Bowman gets hurt, then Jett is up, and then it's just keep the ball rolling.   
 Q.  You had 17 carries today.  Did you get in a pretty good rhythm?  
DEMARCUS FELTON: Yes, sir, it felt good to get that many touches.  Tech don't usually run the ball that much.  It felt 17 touches and get in a rhythm and get the running game up.   
 Q.  What did you think of the two freshmen?  
DEMARCUS FELTON: Great, awesome.  I mean, those guys compete every day.  They push me to get better every day, knowing that those two are behind me and the talent never falls.  If I was to go down, then those two are up, and they could get the job done.  They're very elusive; they've got some power to them, as well.  You seen Ta'Zhawn tried to jump up with the power, and he got a touchdown.  They all showed you flashes of what they can do.   
 Q.  So when you get brought in as a running back here at Tech, obviously you've heard Red Raiders are notorious for the throwing, what's your mindset coming in as a running back?  
DEMARCUS FELTON: Make every rep count.  When you get the ball in your hands, you've just got to make the best of it.  Make the coaches believe that they can trust you with the ball in your hands.  That's what us as a running back group, that's what we did.  When we chose to come here, we knew we wasn't going to get that many touches, but when we got the ball in our hands, we had to make something happen, whether it was running the ball or catching the ball out of the backfield.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT