U.S. OPEN
August 27, 2018
Jack Sock
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. SOCK/G. Andreozzi
6-0, 7-6, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. This is a big win for you, one of the biggest wins in the singles tour in a couple of months.  What was feeling right and how were you feeling afterwards about it?
JACK SOCK: Yeah, relieved, obviously.  Yeah, you guys follow tennis throughout the year, so you know it's been a tough road for a little bit here.  A little bit for nine months (smiling).
Yeah, it hasn't been my best result, but that's why you have a good team, good family, good support system around you, kept me positive.  Obviously doubles has kept me in some tournaments, gave me confidence.  Gave me confidence and motivation just to be on court in general.
And obviously I love the game, I have loved it my whole life.  I wouldn't be here without the support system I've had.  So they just kept pushing me.  It was only a matter of time I think for it to turn around.
I know the level of tennis I can play.  And, you know, it hasn't shown in every match this year.  But you know one week it was going to turn and I'm glad it's at least started here, and hopefully I can keep it going.
Q. When you get on court, do you kind of push everything from the last nine months to the back of your mind, or is it swirling around?
JACK SOCK: Definitely not.  It's there.  I have worked really hard on it, though, the last -- that's why, you know, I -- I got injured after Wimbledon, practicing in London.  And, you know, in hindsight, could be a blessing that I was able to be home for two weeks.
Sucks I missed Atlanta and Cabo.  I love Atlanta, I have a lot of family there, to play.  And it was my first time in Cabo, heard great things.
But to be home and regroup mentally after coming off a big high there at Wimbledon, but obviously still have in the back of my mind the singles wasn't going the way I wanted it to.  It was nice to go home and really regroup mentally, really work hard on putting that aside and going out and honestly enjoying it again and having fun.  When I do that, I play my best tennis, hands down.
So as long as that's out of my head and I can go out and just enjoy and play every point hard, then good things can happen.
Q. Given that tough stretch in singles, is it possible that you gained even more of an appreciation of the game, given that you were going through this tough stretch?
JACK SOCK: I want to say yes, but I'm going to be honest with you guys: it's tough.  And it's already a long year.  Incredibly tough sport, traveling all the time, you know, away from family, friends, a lot.
So when things aren't going well, it honestly feels more like the end of the world than giving an appreciation.  But, yeah, I have had a lot of things happen in my life.  I have had -- my brother, you know, a lot of things, a lot of unfortunate things, and that gives you the appreciation of it.  And then, yeah, when things aren't going well, you can kind of sit back and say, you know, life is still very good and go out and just enjoy playing.
Q. What was the injury you mentioned right after Wimbledon?
JACK SOCK: Yeah, the media said ankle for some reason.  But I actually fell on my hip practicing with Andy Murray in London after Wimbledon.  Landed on my hip actually real bad.  Was not able to walk for a few days.
Q. During a point?
JACK SOCK: Yeah, we were practicing and playing sets, and my shoe slipped, actually, and I went airborne, landed on my hip real bad.
Q. Loss is such a big part of tennis.  Just how do you deal with it on a sort of day-to-day, week-to-week basis?  Just try and get your mind either at ease or free?
JACK SOCK: I mean, I don't want to say you get used to it, but unless your name is Federer, Djokovic, or Nadal, you're probably not winning most weeks.  I mean, everyone is different.  Obviously for me personally, I know if I'm playing good tennis and I'm doing all things right, I can compete to win almost every tournament I play.
So for me, it's just going out and trying to put my best on the line every day.  Obviously, it's not going to happen.  That's tennis, that's sports, that's life.  You're not going to have your best, you know, every day when you go out and play a match.
But if you keep doing the right things, all the little things, they'll add up and you'll put yourself in a position to have success.  That's honestly what I'm trying to do.
And, you know, now I'm starting the second half of my career, and I have learned a lot.  You know, I know the things I need to do to put myself in a position to try to win and try to win big tournaments.  That's just what I'm doing.
Q. What did you mean, you mentioned being back on the doubles court and motivated.  What did you mean by that?
JACK SOCK: More just gives you confidence.  You're still on the court and getting reps.  Obviously, if you're only in the singles draw and I had the results I was having, I'd have a lot of practice days and a lot of time at home, going back.  And you'd probably be a little bit more down and out than if you're playing at the end of -- like, losing first round Wimbledon, feels like, wow, my expectations were obviously to have a better tournament than that.
But then I turn around and now you're holding a trophy after 10 days.  Yeah, it can turn bad moments into good moments, because I love playing doubles, especially with a guy like Mike, who is a good friend and American.  Just filling in Bob's spot there for a little bit.
Yeah, it only gives you confidence just to be on court.  If you're thankful enough to hold a trophy, gives you even more confidence.
Q. You mentioned the relief immediately after the match, even though the scoreline seemed to be routine.  When you sat in the chair, you got a little shoulder shimmy, as well?
JACK SOCK: No, I just looked over at my team and I was signaling I was getting the monkey off your back.  So I was obviously getting it off my back, as well.  Felt like King Kong was on my back there for a while.  It was nice to just get it off.  Now I can play free (smiling).






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT