BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 17, 2018
John Isner
Jack Sock
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ISNER-SOCK/Bryan-Bryan
7-6, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Just tell us how special was it to win this title here today?
JOHN ISNER: It's pretty special.  I think more importantly for both Jack and I, just getting that winning feeling back.  Admittedly, both of us have not played singles that well this year (smiling).
Doubles can oftentimes be a springboard to singles success.  So I think for me personally -- and I think I can speak for Jack -- I think that can be the most important thing really out of this whole week is, you know, playing some tough doubles matches and coming through in the clutch and getting that feeling sort of back again.  I think for both of us, that was a good thing.
Q. Can you talk a little bit about just the Indian Wells experience?  Doubles is really big here, a lot of big crowds, a lot of the top singles players play doubles.  Can you talk about that?
JACK SOCK: Yeah, 100%.  I mean, I have been fortunate enough to be -- this is my third final?  Yeah, I think my third final here.  You know, been able to win two of them, which has been super special.
Like John said, obviously it's an incredible 10 days here.  Probably almost every player's favorite event of the year.  Family and friends and loved ones out here and you're renting a house.  And it's relaxing, and you're still getting to play super high-level tennis.  And then the crowds, on top of it, are just amazing.
And, you know, it was super special today to be able to play another American team, but it was a little bit different, obviously.  The rest of the week prior, we had all the fans on our side.  It was a really, really cool atmosphere.  Obviously today, a little bit more split, understandably.
But anytime you get on the court and you're American playing in this tournament, the crowds are always insane and it always gives you extra energy out in the matches.
Q. What's it mean for you guys to win this title as Americans at an American event?
JOHN ISNER: Yeah, no, it's big.  I mean, this is arguably the toughest doubles tournament all year because of how many singles players also play doubles here.
So for that, it's a pretty cool for Jack and I to say that we really went through the whole draw and won this event.
Yeah, we have only -- we were just talking, we haven't really played that much together.  We have played four Masters Series ever together, and we have won two of them.  I mean, I think Jack could win a couple of matches with you, I think (smiling).
So having me, you know, to help out a little bit when I can, I think we're a pretty good team.
Q. I was curious how did you guys -- since you haven't played together much, how did this team come together this time?
JACK SOCK: I mean, we don't really talk that often (smiling).  We're not that close.  So it was kind of a random.  I was just trying to get in the draw with somebody.
No, we talk.  I mean, close to almost every day probably about sports, something.
JOHN ISNER: Not tennis, trust me.  Not tennis.
JACK SOCK: Yeah, anything but tennis.  We talk about sports a lot, just random stuff.  He's probably my best buddy on tour.
JOHN ISNER: Awww.
JACK SOCK: So to get out on court with him, it doesn't get to happen enough.  We don't get to play all the time.  I obviously choose to play doubles a little bit more throughout the year than he does.
But, you know, he's still young and fresh, so when he gets out there, it's always fun.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT