NITTO ATP FINALS
November 18, 2017
Jack Sock
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
G. DIMITROV/J. Sock   
4-6, 6-0, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  So close, but talk us through the final set, the last few games.  
JACK SOCK: Yeah, I mean, not too close when you win three games in two sets.   
I mean, had a pretty poor start to each set.  Got down a break in the first.  Was able to get it back.  Didn't win a game in the second.  Had some looks early in the third.   
When you play a guy, a player of that caliber, you can't give him that many opportunities, that many free points.  He took advantage today.  I thought he really stepped up his level in the second and third.  Came up with some pretty crazy shots in the third set at some inopportune for myself.   
30-All, a game on his serve.  I nuked a return to his feet.  He had an unreal pickup, pass.  Just shots like that.  Hit two backhands on the run.  One flicked past me at the net, let cord.  But that's tennis.  I've had stuff go my way, so...   
Yeah, he stepped up his level for sure.  There's a reason he's been playing this consistently all year.  That's the reason he's in the final.   
 Q.  You had a lot of matches in a short period of time, a lot of long matches since you've been here.  How are you bearing up physically?  
JACK SOCK: I mean, I didn't win a match from March to now, so I think I'm doing all right physically.  A lot of the other guys won some matches.  I don't think I won any.  Pretty good physically right now.   
 Q.  I understand you can be pretty disappointed right now, but how would you evaluate your experience here in London?  
JACK SOCK: I mean, yeah, I can't complain.  Shouldn't have been here in the first place.  Yeah, I mean, to be here, my first appearance here, to make the semis, getting through a pretty tough group I thought, beating some good players.  Obviously both groups are very tough.  For my first time, to play the three guys that were in our group, to get through, was a big confidence booster for me.   
Definitely going to take the experience from the last three weeks, everything I learned, all the things I did well in the matches, things I can improve, work on those in the off-season, and get ready for 2018.   
 Q.  Are you going to go on with doubles or become more a singles specialist?  
JACK SOCK: I was never a doubles specialist, even though you guys think that for some reason.  I feel like I'm a decent singles player.  I've always been.   
Yeah, I had some good results in doubles.  I mean, I play for fun with some friends when I want to.  But as you can see from the second part of last year and this year, I kind of just pick and choose the times.  I've heard that a lot, but you're fine.   
 Q.  You mentioned about what you've learned.  Have you learned more in the past two weeks than you have perhaps through the year?  What will you take away?  
JACK SOCK: I mean, tennis-wise a little bit.  Maybe 'learned things' wasn't right.  Maybe more reassurance.  I've always believed I can play at this level, play there consistently.  Now to do it over a couple weeks, I would say is more reassurance going into next year than learning things.   
There's always things you can improve on, get better on the court, things you can take away from matches, especially tonight, all the matches I've played the last three weeks.  Probably more the reassurance I know I'm at this level and can stay there.   
 Q.  It is early now, but if you think about 2018...  
JACK SOCK: I really don't want to talk about 2018.  I want to go play golf.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT