NITTO ATP FINALS
November 14, 2017
Jack Sock
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. SOCK/M. Cilic   
5-7, 6-2, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  We think you're the first American to win a match at the O2 in singles.  
JACK SOCK: Really?   
 Q.  Does that interest you at all?  
JACK SOCK: Does that what?   
 Q.  Interest you.  
JACK SOCK: Not really.  I really don't care about that stuff.  I don't know, the No. 1 American, first American to do this since whenever.  I just go out, I like to go out, have fun, compete.  The stats and all that are what they are.   
I've been talking to Mardy since I've been here.  He told me to enjoy it.  I know he was the last guy here.  I didn't even know if he'd won a match or not.   
That's news to me.  Yeah, going out there and enjoying the moment.   
 Q.  You say you're not really bothered by it, and I respect that.  
JACK SOCK: Not what?   
 Q.  You're not hugely bothered by kind of becoming the first American.  As far as I'm aware you are the first to win since Roddick in 2007.  Few would have expected it to be you, maybe even yourself.  Are you surprising yourself by what you're achieving this year?  
JACK SOCK: Not really, no.  I mean, I wouldn't be out here playing, competing if I didn't think I could give myself a chance to win tournaments, to be here.   
I don't know, I'm not the type of guy that will just enter a draw and be happy to make the third round or the quarters or whatever.  I'm here to win matches.  Not only here, but all tournaments.  I think if I do the right things and I play the right tennis, I can give myself a chance to play on the weekend of any tournament.  I think I've showed that more this year.  Obviously there's a rough patch in the middle with some things going on.   
I'm 25 years old.  I'm not the new kid on the block any more.  It's kind of my time, the next however many years.  Yeah, I'm just trying to do what I can.   
 Q.  What was the mindset in the tiebreak?  Also the comebacks you had in Paris, does that carry over, help you in a match like this, third set tiebreak?  
JACK SOCK: Yeah, I mean, definitely to be able to come back in the matches that I did in Paris, the first round lost first set against Verdasco, first set in the final.  There's times, especially at the end of the year when you're just thinking about your off-season, being able to go home the next day.  But to fight through those, put yourself in position to do well in that tournament, now be here in London, to keep my hopes alive for this week as well by winning today.  Definitely carries over, it gives you confidence when you're in these matches, like losing the first set today, rebounding.   
As for the tiebreak, just hope he doesn't hit the net again.  He had a few of those today, but that's tennis.   
But, no, once again, just staying in there, found myself a mini -- he went up 4-2, but to keep myself right there like I did in the third set after being down a break, also in the tiebreaker, I can give myself a chance.   
 Q.  Can you tell us a bit more about the fire alarm, how long you were standing outside.  Did you get much sleep after it?  
JACK SOCK: Yeah, it was probably one of the most annoying noises I've ever heard in my entire life.  We're on the second floor of the hotel.  I guess whatever happened in the hotel was on the second floor.   
I guess from what the workers at the hotel said, the location of your room is how loud the alarm is.  We are right there, kind of right in the center of it.  It literally sounded like the intercom I thought was in our room.  Super loud, super annoying.  It went on for a while.   
At first I didn't know if it was a test or whatever.  Then I realized it was 4 a.m., so I hoped it wasn't just a test from the hotel.   
I went outside, saw Rafa, saw Dominic.  Everyone was all bundled up, freezing cold, just wanting to get back inside.   
Yeah, it was pretty miserable, to be honest.   
 Q.  You've been the last one to qualify for this tournament.  Now you have a really good chance to reach the semifinals.  How has this motivated you, or has this motivated you to be kind of the underdog here?  What would it mean to reach the semifinal?  
JACK SOCK: Well, there's still a long way to go for that.  Obviously tonight is a pretty big match.  Play a factor in that.   
Actually, I don't even know how it all works, if people are tied with the record.  I'm just focused on my tennis.  I obviously know I have to win.  I had to win today, and I got to win my next one if I want to give myself a chance.  Everything else is out of my control, whatever happens tonight, on Thursday with everyone.   
Yeah, I mean, to sneak in the last spot, give myself a chance, it's definitely a great feeling.  Like I said, I knew if I did the right things, played some good tennis, I could give myself a chance.  That's kind of what I'm here to do.   
 Q.  Back to the fire alarm.  How long were you standing outside for?  Was everyone wearing clothes?  
JACK SOCK: Yeah, everyone obviously put on clothes.  It was pretty cold outside.  Some more than others.   
I mean, I stayed in the room for a while, which obviously probably isn't the smartest thing to do, if there had been a real scare.  Not even sure what the exact reason why the alarm went off.  But it was unbearable to stay in the room, it was that loud and annoying.  That's more the reason why we left.  My girlfriend and I left and went outside.  We saw everyone outside.   
The process, I probably waited in the room for five, seven minutes, then probably outside for another five or seven.  The whole thing was probably 15 minutes of freezing, miserableness.   
 Q.  Some of the older players are very careful about what they do during tournaments on their off day, they're not putting too much time on their legs.  You're only 25.  Do you take any notice of that kind of thing?  Do you do anything specific to keep your rest periods up?  
JACK SOCK: I mean, I think it just depends on the day, depends on what's gone into that week, the amount of tennis I played in the event, tournament.  It's all kind of circumstantial, I would say.   
I'm not a guy that needs to go out and hit a thousand balls and make sure it feels really good.  I feel a lot better and more comfortable in matches anyway than practice.  If I go out to practice and I whiff 30 balls in a row, I'm not going to get too worried.  I know I'm probably going to play better in the match anyway.   
Tomorrow I'll literally probably hit with my coach for 30 minutes, then just a lot of recovery on the body.  It's a physical sport.  I'm getting older now.  Got to take care of it more and more.   
I think that's one of the biggest aspects to this sport, to success in this sport, is the maintenance on your body, making sure you're feel going out there physically.  Obviously everyone can play tennis at this level.  Yeah, it's just making sure you're feeling good physically, which will help you mentally, as well.   
 Q.  Next week is the Davis Cup Final with Belgium and France.  What are your thoughts, who do you think might get through to win and why?  
JACK SOCK: I didn't expect that.   
I don't even know who is playing for who.  I think it would depend on the lineups.  I'm guessing Goffin is playing, Darcis.  I don't know.  For the French?   
 Q.  Pouille, Tsonga.  
JACK SOCK: Who is after that?  They have a lot of good players.   
I don't know, it's where, in France?   
 Q.  Yes.  
JACK SOCK: Literally, I forgot they even had Davis Cup after this.   
In France, I mean, probably go with the home team, I guess.  I don't know, really.  I could honestly care less who wins.  I'm just being honest.  I will not pay any attention to it.   
 Q.  The code violation that you had, do you feel you learnt a lesson there?  Any regrets?  
JACK SOCK: Souvenir for a fan way up there.  Don't get to sit that close.  They get to keep a ball now.  It's kind of cool.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT