ROLEX PARIS MASTERS
November 5, 2017
Jack Sock
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. SOCK/F. Krajinovic   
5-7, 6-4, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Your first Masters title.  Going to move up to 9th in the world, a check for around a million dollars, and a ticket for London.  So quite a good day for you.  
JACK SOCK: It's a good Sunday for sure.  The only thing that would make it better would be if the Kansas City Chiefs win today as well back home, my favorite NFL team.   
Incredible week.  Hard to describe honestly.  I don't think it's really hit or soaked in yet.  But yeah, to come back from the deficit I was down in my first round, my first match here, and to have this trophy next to me now and talking to you guys has been an incredible achievement.   
I'm proud of myself for fighting and getting through some of those matches.  You know, facing diversity at times.  And just massive thanks to my team and to my family for all their support.   
 Q.  Which has been your most difficult match on this week?  
JACK SOCK: Yeah, my first one for sure.  Yeah.  First one and probably today as well.  First one for different reasons.  I wasn't feeling great out there my first round tennis-wise, you know.  But, you know, on the flip side, also one of my better matches to stay in there mentally and fight through.  So there's positives as well from that.   
And then today, you know, had some anxious sleep last night and was excited to play today, but also, you know, when you want it so bad I came out not firing maybe as well as I was earlier in the week.  And so was able to find that groove in the second and third and kind of turn things around.   
 Q.  How did you feel one week ago?  How was your tennis before the tournament start?  
JACK SOCK: Well, my last six months have been pretty rocky.  So, you know, from January through March I was feeling really good.  You know, playing some amazing tennis.  And then I've had a rough season pretty much since, since March.   
And so to finish the year, coming in this week I had no idea I could even make London.  It wasn't in my head.  I just wanted to play some good tennis my last week and go start my offseason.   
Now to sit here and extend the season another two weeks, or however long, a week and a half, two weeks, and to keep playing and achieve a lot of firsts today for me, yeah, is incredible.   
 Q.  You mentioned the first as a result of that win.  Among them you would be the first U.S. player at the World Tour Finals for I think 7 or 8 years.  You're U.S. No. 1 now.  Do you think, will you feel a bit of pressure as a result of that?  
JACK SOCK: No, actually, not at all.  I mean, the U.S. No. 1, I don't -- I mean, I don't really think about that ever.  You guys love to talk about it.  The media likes to bring it up.   
I honestly don't.  Whether I'm 1 or 2, whatever, we're all good friends.  I hope as a unit for American tennis, I hope we keep pushing each other and, you know, we have more guys towards the top.   
But more so I obviously snuck into the 8th spot in London now unexpectedly so zero pressure on me to go there.  I'm going to swing big and play my game, like I always do, and just, honestly, enjoy the moment.   
 Q.  Is it almost too many firsts at one time?  Is it just so much joy?  
JACK SOCK: Yeah.  I mean, when the last point ended and I knew I had won, a lot of things went through my mind.  Yeah.   
There was a lot of things on the line today.  And to be able to achieve them I'm going to try to enjoy them one at a time and try to soak it in with my team and my family.  And really, yeah, just look back on this week and realize getting to that first match was big, and now to be sitting here in this position.   
 Q.  Briefly, how do you celebrate something like this?  What are you going to do?  
JACK SOCK: Just a water on the rocks and a dinner.   
 Q.  Just to recap, the first match, you were 5-2 down in the decider?  
JACK SOCK: 5-1.   
 Q.  5-1.  Can you remember at all how you were thinking at that point, how you turned it around?  
JACK SOCK: I was thinking about my holidays the next day.  I mean, I just -- yeah, you know, it was one of those days.  Kyle was playing some great tennis.  He had been playing great tennis after Vienna.   
I knew it was going to be a tough match going in.  I had my chances.  I didn't convert sometimes.  And yeah, I just, I don't know.  I started playing much more aggressive.  I tried to start shortening points and just going after my shots.  They were landing and I was connecting a lot of them.  And there I was two breaks down then to 5-4 I end up breaking back, and then once I break the second time back it's 5-All.  It's like, All right.  Let's buckle down now and see what we can do.   
 Q.  Just when you say regularly "swing big," is that a conscious effort to be only attacking in your game?  I mean, how do you approach the way you play?  I mean, is it are you only attack-minded?  
JACK SOCK: I mean, not necessarily, no.  I think my speed and my intangibles and everything are definitely a strength of mine.  I think I kind of proved that in the third set with a continental forehand on the run to break and then on the run back in to break again the second time.   
So I mean, attack first, for sure is the mentality.  When I see a ball, hit, try to come in.  I feel very comfortable at the net.  If need be, and I'm playing a certain type of player and I want to retreat a little bit and grind behind and make some balls and stuff like that, that's always a possibility.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT