LAVER CUP
September 22, 2019
Jack Sock
John McEnroe
John Isner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. John, Jack, congratulations. I mean, just how good is this atmosphere in here?
JOHN ISNER: It's unbelievable. This was the same situation we were in last year in Chicago in an incredible atmosphere. Jack and I won in three sets, and we did it again in large part to this guy. He kept on coming up with the goods.
Oh, man, we're happy. I told you guys we were going to compete hard. We're in a very good spot right now. So let's see what happens.
Q. Jack, you've got the most wins in Laver Cup history. Is there anything you love more than Laver Cup? When you look up there, World 8, Europe 7, the first time you're in the lead for the weekend?
JACK SOCK: It's an incredible feeling. We have had a lot of close matches. For most of those to not go our way in a lot of the years, to now be up again feels great.
We're going to get behind our singles guys the rest of the day. I'm going to be going crazy on the bench, of course. I just feel grateful to get the callback this year. This is probably my favorite week of the year, honestly. It's an incredible atmosphere. Even if you guys are cheering for the other team, it's still amazing to play in front of you.
I want to do a quick shoutout to my brother. It's his birthday today. He's sitting over there. Happy Birthday to my brother sitting in the crowd.
Q. You gave him a great birthday present. You gave John McEnroe a great present. You've repaid his faith in you. Congratulations.
Let's take a quick walkover to the team of the moment. John, congratulations. How good did that feel sitting there to see them get over the line?
CAPTAIN JOHN McENROE: Well, it feels amazing. The energy is outstanding. The crowd is great, and we're super pumped up. We've got a lead right now.
Q. How good is that? You had a lead in Chicago, as well, right?
CAPTAIN JOHN McENROE: Yeah, well, we know it's not over. We had chances the last couple matches and came up short. Hopefully we can turn it around this time.
Q. Jack's on fire in Laver Cup, huh?
CAPTAIN JOHN McENROE: Jack's our man. Are you kidding? These two guys have stepped up big time, all three of them, and they got more points than anyone. So thank God Jack's on the team.
Q. Nick ready to go?
CAPTAIN JOHN McENROE: Unfortunately Nick is not ready to go. We are going to be going in and conferencing. We're going to have to stay tuned.
Q. Okay. Do we know who's substituting?
CAPTAIN JOHN McENROE: You're going to find out very shortly.
Q. That's maybe a little bit of good news for Team Europe. Who knows?
CAPTAIN JOHN McENROE: That's called a tease (smiling).






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT