DAVIS CUP FIRST ROUND: USA VS SWITZERLAND
February 4, 2017
Jim Courier
Steve Johnson
Jack Sock
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
SOCK-JOHNSON/Bossel-Laaksonen   
7-6, 6-3, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Jack, Steve, talk to me a little bit about the sensation of going around the arena with the flag there at the end.  
JACK SOCK: Yeah, that was, well, I guess the second time for me.  Melbourne last year we did it around the Kooyong court where we were playing.  I didn't have as much of a part in that tie, that's for sure.   
But, yeah, it's great.  Like captain said all week, it's a new generation for us for a Davis Cup team.  You got four very capable singles and doubles players.  We all love being together and we all get along so well.   
At the end kind there, definitely nice to kind of celebrate a little bit and get the first-round win under the belt and move on to the next one.   
STEVE JOHNSON: Yeah, it was a blast.  First home tie, so it was a little different feeling than Tashkent the last time I played.  (Laughter.)  You know, had a lot more fun playing in front of my home crowd than I did there.   
Just such a fun week here in the States.  Great crowds and great team support.   
 Q.  This could be for all three of you.  Just the point in the middle of the third set, standing ovation on that final shit, most exciting point of the set, was that the turning point you think for the match?  
STEVE JOHNSON: There was a couple of those.  We were up 3-2 -- down 3-2 in the breaker and won two crazy points in a row.  Yeah, just any time you can get out of those in the tiebreaker it's huge, especially on your serve as well.   
We just rode the momentum to the win.   
JACK SOCK: Great play by Stevie.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
STEVE JOHNSON: We played together a bunch of times in the past, so just once we get going we get the familiarity back with one another.  Everything kind of clicked towards the end or we got it going, so just keep it rolling.   
 Q.  Jim, there is conversation going around in the media room about your attire.  You opted for a suit this time.  Do you do that when you're indoors?  What's the mindset for the dress code for the day?  
CAPTAIN COURIER: Yeah, whenever we play inside I typically we're a suit; whenever we play outside and it requires sunscreen, I typically wear a shirt and a hat.   
 Q.  Talk about going to Australia.  
CAPTAIN COURIER: Yeah, we're looking forward to the opportunity to go back and battle those guys again.  They came through pretty comfortably as well.  Hugely talented team.  Passionate Davis Cup nation.  Had a lot of fun playing down in Melbourne with them.   
Obviously got the result we wanted which makes it a lot more fun, but they're a knowledgeable crowd and they have won a ton of Davis Cups, so they know what it's all about.   
It will be exciting for us to go down.  We're already talking about it, looking forward to it.  We have work to do tomorrow.  We're not your overlooking the matches on Sunday.  We will be ready to play tomorrow for sure, even though this thing is decided.   
I think I can speak for all of us when I say we're anxious to get down there and battle on.  We really want to get out to the semifinals and see what we can do this year.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT