DAVIS CUP FIRST ROUND: USA VS SWITZERLAND
February 3, 2017
Jack Sock
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. SOCK/M. Chiudinelli
6-4, 6-3, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Things seemed to be fairly even out there.  Anything in particular that turned things around?
JACK SOCK: I mean, getting a break always helps.  You know, there are always few extra nerves I think playing Davis Cup.  When you're playing for your country, being a part of a team, maybe at a normal event, normal tournament, you come out swinging a little bit more.
I think I was a little hesitant at the beginning; maybe too conservative playing when obviously my game is to kind of play big and hit big forehands and be aggressive.
Like I said, being a little too conservative with your game, and then when I was able to get the break it kind of made me able to play my game.
Q. Clearly you guys are favored over your opponents.  Do you think that that will kind of loosen up the rest of the team as well to be able to go ahead and take care of business?
JACK SOCK: I mean, favored or not, you see a lot of upsets in Davis Cup.  I mean, I think Carreno Busta lost to Skugor today.  Kind of by ranking that's an upset.
But Davis Cup anything can happen.  You see it every year.  Every tie almost you see some kind of crazy things happen.
We're not taking anybody lightly.  The guy I played today is 34, 35 years old.  He has a lot of experience.  You never know.  He could come out swinging.
I think as a whole, as a team, like I said, we're not taking anyone lightly.  But at the same time, we're confident in our squad and our four guys in the matchups this weekend.
We're going to go one match at time and get one point at time.
Q. You were saying you were a little bit nervous at the beginning.  How does that manifest itself?  Is it an issue of not being able to hit your racquet the way you want?  Butterflies in the stomach?  Footwork?
JACK SOCK: Yeah, I don't know if nervous is the right word, I guess.  I wasn't like out there shaking or had butterflies in my stomach or anything.
It's kind of combination I'm anxious to play.  I love playing in front of a home crowd.  I love playing at home, especially Davis Cup.  I love being on the team.
But then there is just a little extra pressure I think, you know, especially being the first match of the weekend.  If John had gone first and won, maybe be a little bit easier to go out and play.
Being the first match out after four, five days of practicing with the guys, kind of just ready to go, ready to get out there.  Like I said, just a little conservative, not really hitting out on my shots.  Then like I said, after getting the break it loosened me up a little bit and able to play a little bit bigger.
That's how I like to see matches go.
Q. You had some success with drop shots.  Seemed to play them when you felt more comfortable as you moved through the match.  What was where you thinking with that?
JACK SOCK: Yeah, when I did, I think I hit them at the right time except for the 3-All game.  I tried to hit it at deuce, which was idiotic.  Other than that, I think I chose the right times.  He moves well side to side I think.  He anticipates well and can get balls back side to side, up and back.  Called the medical timeout.
So sometimes you test it out.  Especially on this court, it's so gritty and the drop shot doesn't really come up much.  They're kind of tough to get to.
Yeah, I felt like I chose the right times and executed them well overall, other than the one.
Q. Congratulations, Jack.  How important is it for the home country court advantage to you and to the rest of the team?
JACK SOCK: To have the home court advantage?
Q. Yes, sir.
JACK SOCK: Yeah, it's massive.  Could be playing Canada, you can play Uzbekistan like we played a couple years ago.  Obviously there is no place like home and no place like having the massive crowd in front of you, especially Davis Cup where it can be a little bit more of a chaotic crowd, more enthusiasm, more electricity.
So for us, it's incredible.  All the guys on our team love playing in front of big crowds I think.  It can definitely help you and push you through matches and get you through the break I needed today or whatever the case is.
Not only have to home crowd, but then be able to pick out the court that you play on that all the guys like is a massive advantage I think most of the time.  All in all, it can help a lot.
Q. Odd not to have the Bryans playing Davis Cup.  How has that effected the team's patterns this week?
JACK SOCK: You know, first of all, they've had an unbelievable career not only on tour but in Davis Cup.  They've clinched so many wins, won so many matches, been a part of so many teams.
For me, it's been -- I've played with them a few times, twice, Melbourne and Portland, and just being around them, they bring so much energy, enthusiasm.  They're so positive.  They're so fun to be around.  That's probably why they're the best team to ever play doubles.
Like captain said earlier this week, they've done pretty much everything they can.  They've had a long run in Davis Cup and unfortunately had to retire from Davis Cup.
Like captain said, again, we have four very capable guys in singles and doubles on the team.  All of us have had success in singles and doubles.  I think we're a very strong, dangerous squad.
If any of us are playing our game, playing well, on any given day we're going to be dangerous to play anybody in singles and doubles.
I'm very confident, and I think all four of us are -- five with the captain.
Q. Not looking beyond this tie or even this team, but talk to me a little bit the immediate future of Davis Cup tennis for the U.S.  Were you part of the group in 2009?
JACK SOCK: No.
Q. Did not think so.  Clearly you are on this team.  Talk to me about the future of Davis Cup tennis in the U.S. with the young are guys coming up.
JACK SOCK: Yeah, I mean, never know what the future holds.  Obviously ranking-wise we have a lot of guys coming up and doing well.  That's great for U.S. tennis as a whole.
I think I can speak for the four of us and with captain again, we're focused on this tie and trying to do our best.  Like you said earlier this week, it's amazing having guy come up and having a cluster of guys coming.
The competitive side of it as well, we all want to keep our spots and be up there the in rankings as the top Americans.  It's great when we all push each other.  I think it makes the group of U.S. tennis better and stronger.
But at the end of the day, we're focused on this weekend right now versus Swiss and moving forward.  If we can get the win this week, then on to the next one, whatever the case is.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT