WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2016
Jack Sock
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. SOCK/E. Gulbis
  6‑4, 6‑4, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
   
 Q. How do you feel about your match today?  
JACK SOCK: I feel pretty good. Obviously a tricky opponent. Serve is big and hits the ball big from the back. Doesn't give you rhythm, especially on grass. It's a different game but I was happy to get through in straights.  
   
 Q. How do you feel playing on grass? Obviously you've got a big game, big forehand, and big serve. Is this something you look forward to every year?  
JACK SOCK: Looking more forward to it now. I mean, last few years ‑‑ obviously the doubles a couple years ago was amazing, and we had a great run.   
Singles hasn't gone quite as well, but, yeah, definitely looking forward to it more this year. Spent a week here prior. Got here a week early and got a lot of practice sets and points, you know, some good groove on it. Definitely looking forward to it.  
   
 Q. Winning the doubles title, when you look back on that, is that considered one of your best achievements so far?  
JACK SOCK: I mean, yeah. Winning a Grand Slam, I mean, it's doubles and obviously my priority is singles, but I'd say Houston, my first title there and Wimbledon have to be pretty close.  
   
 Q. Playing doubles, obviously you're more comfortable now knowing you've played on Centre Court, you've played on the big courts. How much does doubles help your singles really overall?   
JACK SOCK: I think generally it helps me a decent amount. Obviously just get more time on the court, get more serving/returning practice. You can work on the aggression.   
I like to come forward and try and finish off points at the net when I can. Obviously that can help, as well. Obviously confidence might be the biggest thing. You play through draws. If you're winning trophies and playing on the weekends, it can only help your confidence.  
   
 Q. How do you feel being here? You're not old, but you're one of the olders compared to teenagers rising up behind you. How does it feel having these guys kind of chasing you down?  
JACK SOCK: I mean, it is what it is. I was the teenager at one point trying to do well. After these guys will be another wave, as well. It's just part of the game. There's always going to be young guys doing well.   
Just more motivation, I think, if anything, to try and stay in front of them and I look forward to hopefully many battles with them in the future.  
   
 Q. I guess looking ahead to the Olympics and the US Open, what are you more excited about for the summer after this tournament?  
JACK SOCK: Yeah, I mean, Davis Cup right after this I'm very excited for. And being with Nike now, which is in Portland which would be really cool, it's right near the campus there and representing the U.S. there and going to the Olympics, as well, I mean, it's a dream as a kid to be able to do.   
Definitely excited for that. Then it's all the U.S. summer tournaments, playing in front of our home fans.  
   
 Q. You were part of the Babolat Presidential Campaign. How much fun was doing that and being a part of something creative and a bit odd?  
JACK SOCK: Yeah, it's been a blast, I think. Big props to them for thinking of it. We have had a lot of fun with it, and I think I'm doing pretty well in the race right now so hopefully I can stay in front.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT