ROLAND GARROS
June 1, 2015
Jack Sock
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. NADAL/J. Sock
  6‑3, 6‑1, 5‑7, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English. 

Q.   What did you think?   What was it like playing the topspin of Rafa and being out there against him?
JACK SOCK:   Yeah, he's pretty good out there.   Took some getting used to at the beginning, I think.   I guess his patterns and everything, I have seen him play a lot, but to actually be out there and physically see it and handle the ball and everything took a little bit of getting used to.
Finally got into a little bit of rhythm.   From the ground it felt pretty good third and fourth set.   Obviously I had a good comeback in the third and had chances in the fourth, and he came up with great shots and took it.

Q.   How would you put into words sort of what his game is like, facing it?   What's it feel like, that ball?
JACK SOCK:   Yeah, nothing I have faced before.   Definitely heavier than the average player.   But, you know, like I said yesterday, I think we both kind of try to play similar ways, actually. 
You know, obviously being a lefty, it's a little bit different.   But, you know, obviously we are both some of the heavier forehands on tour.   Overall it was an enjoyable match to play.

Q.   How do you sort of sum up this experience this past 10 days here in France?   And as your clay season is now to an end, how do you feel about it sort of overall?
JACK SOCK:   Playing doubles tomorrow; not over yet.

Q.   Excuse me, singles. 
JACK SOCK:   Yeah, the singles.   Yeah, singles season is over, but it was good.   I have said a few times probably my favorite time of the year.   Well, US Open Series is tough to beat.   I love the clay and I love playing on it.   Suits my game very well.
Starting Houston winning my first title was very big for me, and coming over here I had some tough losses first few weeks.   But to make fourth round here is my best at a Grand Slam yet.   And then to go out and play a tough match with Rafa was a lot of experience for me and something I will take with me on to the next tournaments.

Q.   During the match there was a moment that you were down but you reacted like a real champion.   What was the key moment?   Because you were a little tired and suddenly came back. 
JACK SOCK:   Yeah, I mean, I wasn't tired, but I was‑‑ you know, I was still trying to figure out things midway.   You know, after the first two sets obviously didn't go very well, and then, you know, like I said, found a rhythm.
Then I felt like I was getting into a lot of the service games and getting a lot of returns in play and able to get in the points.
You know, I knew even if I was down a break when he was serving for it at 5‑4, I had gotten into a bunch of the return games and I was able to dictate some points once I started, you know, hitting my forehand a little bit bigger.
I think I was a little conservative on it in the first few sets.   When I finally started letting go on it is when I kind of turned things around.

Q.   You played every day now since Tuesday, and obviously you will play tomorrow, which is great.   But do you question the wisdom of doing both singles and doubles in a slam like this?
JACK SOCK:   I don't, no.   I mean, I feel good physically.   You know, obviously I had won the fourth or kept going I think I would have been all right.
No, I think for me, you know, some people like the off days to do a light practice or work on things and then get ready for the next match.   I don't mind going out and playing a doubles match and working on returning serving and working on a few things.   Just being out on court, just all the experience you get on court can only help.
For me, that's what I like to do.

Q.   How do you feel about Rafa and Novak Djokovic?   Whom do you pick?
JACK SOCK:   Who do I pick?   I don't know.   I mean, I guess since I lost to him I hope Rafa wins.   I have no idea.   I think it will be a great match.   It's hard to bet against Rafa here in Paris, but, you know, obviously Novak is No. 1 in the world. 
You know, they have beaten each other a few times each.   It will be a good one. 

Q.   You were dialoguing with yourself, talking to yourself a bit out there.   The serve seemed to be a factor.   Was that critical for you?     If you had a little better percentage on the first serve it might've made a difference?
JACK SOCK:   Yeah, it was a little bit tough.   For whatever reason, I couldn't find the rhythm on it.   Yeah, I mean, any time you're just hitting, throwing in second serves to Rafa on this surface and he's back and able to kind of start the point on his terms with the first ball and the second serve, you know, it doesn't help, by any means.
But, yeah, obviously hopefully play him again, and I will definitely have the percentage up.

Q.   Do you come out of this tournament or from the match today feeling any different about sort of your stock as a player?
JACK SOCK:   I mean, definitely more confident.   Overall, I mean, I think the biggest thing for me is the physical side of it.   A lot of people like to question that the last few years.   Obviously I think I have proven now that I'm ready to go and can play as long as I need to.
For me, that's big confidence.   And in my tennis game itself, you know, I feel very good.   I feel like I have improved in a lot of ways.   A lot of people like to say I don't have a backhand, but I think I kind of proved that otherwise today.
So in general, I think my game is improved a lot even the last six months.   So, you know, to me that's a lot of confidence I will take in the next tournaments and rest of the year.

Q.   Would you say that Rafa's second serve is his weakest weapon in his arsenal?
JACK SOCK:   I mean, I guess pace‑wise maybe.   For me, I was able to hit a lot of forehands off it, but he's also so good at defending and changing the way the point on this surface. 
He does it so well that even if you kind of tee off on the return of his second serve, he can change the point and get back on offense pretty quick.   Obviously very, very tricky guy to play. 
But, yeah, I mean, if I play him again, there's some things I'd do differently. 

Q.   I think you won a couple points in a row with dropshots.   Maybe not too many opponents have done that against Nadal.   What parts of that match do you think you might treasure and you were proudest of and when you think you played your best?
JACK SOCK:   Obviously the third and fourth were better for me.   You know, even the end of the third was obviously ‑‑ when I was able to break two out of three games and win the set.   Played some very good tennis. 
Even the fourth.   It was 6‑2, but I actually thought I played all right.   I mean, on the break point to get the second break I missed a ball, forehand on top of the net. 
I thought it was still very good tennis, and he came up with great shots.   Yeah, middle, end of the third, and into the fourth, I actually thought I played some good tennis. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT