BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 18, 2015
Jack Sock
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. FEDERER/J. Sock
  6‑4, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   How did it feel out there?   Just your thoughts after that match.   Pretty interesting test for you.   
JACK SOCK:   Yeah.   I mean, first time playing one of the top 4s, as people say.   Obviously knew it was going to be a tough task and I was going to have to play my best tennis to have a chance.   
My strengths that I usually can count on, serve and forehand, I mean, I felt like I was actually hitting the ball well from the back.   Serve let me down.   Obviously I needed to serve very well, if not my best, to give me a chance, because, I mean, he's done this many times and makes you play a lot of balls.  
That's probably what I was most frustrated with, something I can control like that, my serve.   Just didn't feel right today.   All credit to him.   He played a good match.   I will learn a lot from him and move forward.  
   
 Q.   Off the ground, first four games looked like he was just trying to get used to what you were throwing at him.   Started to really shift and he took control of the match after that.   Were you noticing anything off the ground that he kind of changed?  
JACK SOCK:   No.   I mean, yeah, the first few games, yeah, I felt like I was in control of a decent amount of points.   I was moving my forehand around well.   When you've never played someone, the first few games you play like that kind of feel it out a bit.  
I thought he served well.   My return wasn't getting them deep enough.   Against a guy like that, if you leave anything short they are on it pretty quick and either into the net or taking control of the point fast.  
That's something I have to work on if I want to compete, you know, with these guys, and, you know, give them a test.   I have to keep the ball a little bit deeper and manage my serve a little bit better.  
But, yeah, overall, he dictated more than I would like if I were to play again.   Yeah, I'd feel more comfortable if I was the one hitting more forehands and controlling more than he is.  
   
 Q.   Obviously having not played a whole lot this year, what do you take from this tournament and also going forward?  
JACK SOCK:   Yeah, I mean, obviously I had a few months off.   A lot of things going on, on and off the court.  
I came in obviously hoping to win matches and have a good run, but not really‑‑ you know, if I lost first round to Lu I wouldn't be totally devastated.   If I made it to fourth round today and played today like I did, then it's just bonus.   
Like you said, first week really of the year for me.   Pleased with it to get through three‑setters against some good opponents and kind of go up against best player to play our sport and kind of see where I match up.   
Definitely take a lot away from this week and move on to Miami and try and keep it going.  
   
 Q.   Players have been talking about the conditions and how they change, day and night.   Today was a fairly peculiar day because we had a sandstorm, started spitting, and there was a bit of wind and overcast.   How did it feel out there?  
JACK SOCK:   Yeah, I mean, I don't know if I have seen a cloud since I have been in Palm Springs.   Obviously today during the warmup saw a bunch of clouds, and dark clouds.   Even seemed like in the distance it might be raining over by the mountains.  
But, no, I would say just maybe windier.   Definitely down on Stadium 2 it tends to either swirl a bit more or feel it more and gets trapped and moves around.  
Overall, I mean, you're in Palm Springs playing the best guy to play the sport, so I wasn't complaining.   Conditions were a little bit different.   The new ball this year definitely is flying a little bit more, and it took some getting used to throughout the week.  
   
 Q.   Doubles questions.   First of all, what did it mean to capture a doubles title at Wimbledon, of all places.   And can you talk about the rematch against the Bryans from that final?  
JACK SOCK:   Yeah, Vasek and I went with no expectation.   We didn't even know we were playing until kind of the week before.   We had planned on playing but he had been injured a bit.   He told me it would be a game‑time decision before our first round whether he would play based on his singles.   
He had lost early in singles, so I thought there may be a chance he might not play.   He stuck around, and thankfully he did.   We were able to go on a pretty good run there and play a pretty incredible match with those guys.   Definitely could have gone either way in the final.   We were fortunate enough to get a few points our way in the end and get the title.  
But I mean, it's always a tough match.   Once again, playing the best guys to play doubles in our sport.   I played them numerous times now, and they got us a few weeks later in Cincinnati.  
Yeah, I mean, obviously we're going to have to play very, very well to win.  
   
 Q.   Where is the trophy at?   What did you do with your trophy?  
JACK SOCK:   My trophy is ‑‑I don't know if I should say it out loud.   Somebody might steal it.   It is somewhere in the Midwest region of the United States.   (Laughter.)  
Q.You mentioned you're going to take a lot away from this week.   What specifically can you take away from this tournament?  
JACK SOCK:   I mean, more than anything, maybe my physicality out there.   I have said it a few times this week, that in the past I maybe had to conserve a little more energy than I was able to this week.   
I put in a bunch of training weeks before I got here, almost nine in a row off the court, where I was able to get myself in I think the best shape of my career.   I was able to regroup mentally and physically.   
So I think going away from here I can just ‑‑I know I can trust my body.   I play a pretty physical, aggressive game, so I know I can stay in there as long as I need to doing three three‑setters in a row.   
I felt good today.   Barring the result.   I felt good.   So, yeah, I think that's a pretty big confidence boost I can take away.  
   
 Q.   Was the forehand that you hit to win the Wimbledon doubles, you hit about 190 miles an hour.   Was that by far your most memorable shot?   Do you think about it a lot?  
JACK SOCK:   I have seen the video a few times.   I have watched it a few times.   I was talking to Vasek about it this week.   I haven't seen him in a while and we were talking about a little bit.   Still doesn't really feel like it happened.   
I watched the video, and it's like hard to remember being out there a little bit.   You watch it and you're kind of like, Wow, we were really out there playing.  
But, yeah, I mean, I told myself on that point, If Mike ‑‑ they had been serving great on our match points.   I think aced us in all three we had before that.  
So I told myself, If Mike was going to miss a first serve on that one, I was going to run around and obviously hit my go‑to shot.   Nobody probably wants to double fault on match point, so I think he took a little bit more off the second and was able to get around it.   
Then I saw Bob move a little bit, and I hit one of the best forehands of my career, if not the best in that type of moment.   Yeah, I actually hit a similar one in doubles here this week already, and we joke about it on the court.   Kind of reminisce a little bit about last summer.   Yeah, probably the most memorable shot so far.  
   
 Q.   Did you worry you might kill a linesman?  
JACK SOCK:   No.   No.   It was more of a loop.   I didn't hit it too hard.   It was kind of in the air and it dropped last second, thankfully.  
   
 Q.   You're well‑connected with all the American guys.   What's kind of the reaction to the news about Wayne Odesnik and what's your personal reaction to it, as well?  
JACK SOCK:   Yeah, I saw it this morning.   I mean, unfortunate for him, but, you know, second violation.   I mean, we have rules in this sport, and if you're not going to obey them or abide by them, you've got to pay the consequence.   
It's sad, of course.   Yeah, he's an American.   But, you know, it kind of is what it is.   And if you're going to do it not only once but twice, then you have to pay the price.  
   
 Q.   There are guys who play both doubles and singles; very few who compete for titles for both.   Do you feel like you have to choose at some point?  
JACK SOCK:   Haven't really thought about it a whole lot.   I love playing doubles.   Obviously I play almost every week I can.   There are tournaments throughout the year in my schedule where I know I'm not going to play doubles.   Maybe the week before a slam I know I'm not going to play doubles.  
You know, I'm young and healthy.   I think a lot of guys would say as well, If you're younger and you're feeling good and you have the energy, why not?   I mean, it's kind of ideal, you know.   If you play a singles match and you're able to win, you have the next day off, like I have had here a couple of times, able to play a doubles match instead of having to go out and do a practice and drill some you get in a doubles and get in the match atmosphere.  
I think it really helps.   You know, I think a lot of guys would agree.   But, yeah, as long as I feel good and healthy and stuff, I will keep playing doubles, for sure.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT