BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 13, 2015
Jack Sock
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. SOCK/Y. Lu
  6‑7, 6‑2, 7‑5

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Health‑wise, how do you feel right now, coming back from the long layoff?
JACK SOCK:   I feel good.   I actually feel probably the best of my career.   I was able to postsurgery did my rehab back in Kansas City with a guy there I trust to do that.
I was able to get almost nine weeks in a row, six days a week working out off the court training with a guy that works a lot with the Chiefs. 
I was able to do that and kind of get my body I think in shape where I haven't been in my career, so I feel good.

Q.   Can you talk a little bit about first set looked like maybe a slow start.   Took you a while to get into the match maybe?
JACK SOCK:   Yeah, I would say a slow start is the right words.
Yeah, I mean, you can take the time or have the time off that I had and obviously put in the time I did on the court, in the gym, and came out here a week early, did all‑‑ played a bunch of practice sets, and it's not really the same until you get out there and actually start playing. 
Atmosphere, conditions, whatever it is, yeah, I think it took me a little bit.   Feet weren't working as quick as I would like them to at the beginning, but I was able to find a groove a little bit.   Wasn't the cleanest match, but those are sometimes the better ones to get through and can hopefully get me some confidence moving forward.

Q.   I think you were going to play in February but it didn't really work.   What was happening there?
JACK SOCK:   Yeah.   I planned to start in Memphis, Memphis, Delray, and get a couple of tournaments in before here.   Just overall just wasn't ready. 
I mean, I had been practicing and working out, but there were still a few things that I wanted to polish up before coming out.   I didn't want to put myself at 85% and put myself at risk for anything going out there, because obviously when the match starts there's no really going back. 
Knowing myself at least, you know, I like to give it my all, and I tend to play a pretty physical game.   I just didn't want to put my body under the duress that it takes in a match when I wasn't quite 100%.

Q.   What was the root of the injury, the root problem?   Was it a one‑time thing?
JACK SOCK:   Yeah.   A lot of people keep saying hip I think based on the photo I put on social media.   It was actually my pelvis.   I tore a muscle in my pelvis, so I went to Philadelphia, same guy I went to a few years ago actually after this tournament in 2012 when I tore the left side. 
It was almost the same thing on the other side, but not quite.   Yeah, he went in and I had to pull down a muscle from my ab and reattach it and build up some scar tissue around it.

Q.   That was right after Paris?
JACK SOCK:   No.   I was good through the end of the year.   This was the start of my offseason.   I started practicing again.   I was practicing, slid out to a ball, practicing out to the right, and felt something in that area.   I knew it wasn't a good feeling. 
Got the MRIs and everything, went to Philadelphia and got another MRI, and it showed a tear.

Q.   Little disappointing, because you actually had a good fall. 
JACK SOCK:   Yeah.   Kind of bounced back after the Open with a disappointing NewYork.   Played some great tennis in the fall and had the momentum going. 
But, you know, obviously things happen for a reason sometimes, I think.   You know, had I been in Melbourne and gotten a phone call from my family that my brother was in the hospital, I don't know how and in what state of mind I would have been in to play tennis there. 
At the end of it I was actually very glad I was able to be home with my family and help them through that time.   Yeah, I think it changed a few things for me.   You know, I'm enjoying things a little more now.   Definitely on the court just having a good time.

Q.   Your brother came here, correct? 
JACK SOCK:   Yeah.   He's right behind.

Q.   He must be feeling a lot better?
JACK SOCK:   Yeah, he's feeling better now.   Yeah, it was a crazy time.   You know, he's a warrior to get through that.   It didn't look promising there for a little bit, and he was able to battle through.   Yeah, now he's able to kind of get back to some of the things he likes to do, play a little tennis, play a little golf. 
It's kind of just starting back at the beginning now strength‑wise and everything, getting it all back.   When you're in ICU for three weeks and on a ventilator for a week you lose a lot. 

Q.   During the match today were you thinking about like winning for him?   Did that add more pressure to it?
JACK SOCK:   Yeah.   Yeah, actually I have had it on my shoes.   Since he's been out of the hospital I have written, For you, Eric, on my shoes.   It's just a good reminder out there that obviously this is, you know, my career and my living and everything, but kind of puts in a different perspective and you're kind of playing for more. 
When you're out there and you get frustrated missing a ball or whatever it is, you can kind of think he's been through, you know, almost not making it to a kind of miraculous recovery.   Kind of puts things in perspective.   Just go out there and enjoy it, and you can play a little more free.

Q.   If I heard you right, were you saying silver lining of the injuries you're in the best shape you think you have ever been in in your career?
JACK SOCK:   Yeah, I think so.   I mean, who knows had I stayed healthy, had I been down there, been in Australia.   Who knows?   But I think, yeah, a little bit was more a blessing in disguise to be able to put my body through what I did last eight, nine weeks and physically and mentally I kind of feel the best I have.

Q.   Did you lose weight?   Gain weight?
JACK SOCK:   A little bit of both.   Lose weight, gain muscle.   Yeah, it was more the consistency of it and going through‑‑ like I said, I went eight weeks at least in a row, six days a week.

Q.   Sounds tedious. 
JACK SOCK:   Yeah, it was a grind.   But I was able to get through, and now obviously I played in the heat of the day today, three sets, not the longest points most of the time, but still playing at the hottest time and still felt good out there.   Little confidence in the back of the mind.

Q.   Dropshots in the third set, was that trying to shorten points because of your foot or more tactical? 
JACK SOCK:   I think it was more tactical, for sure.   These courts the ball jumps so high.   For me, my kick serve and forehand are a pretty strong weapon out there, and I felt like every time I was hitting those shots. 
And after my serve he'd retreat pretty far back.   Yeah, after I hit the first one or two he kept going back, so it was more kind of a third one was more just for fun and I was able to hit it well and go from there.

Q.   How happy would you be this year by the end of the year?   Top 30?   20?   15?   Slams?   Where are you, do you think?
JACK SOCK:   I mean, ranking‑wise I don't really put an exact number on it.   For me right now, just trying to win my first title would be a good start and make me pretty happy.   I have tasted that success a little bit on the doubles side and played deep in some draws.   It kind of just motivates you doing the singles side as well. 
I had a couple good tournaments last year making quarters, semis of some 250s and 500s.   So for me, the goal right now kind of I think is to hopefully get my first title this year.

Q.   I don't know what you did last year going over to Europe for the clay court season, but are you going to have a different strategy or different schedule going over there this year?   What's the schedule?
JACK SOCK:   No, I mean, I think it's going to be pretty much the same.   Doing here, obviously Miami, Houston, and then probably take a couple weeks, start in Madrid. 
Kind of depends how I do here actually, because I think ‑‑ I don't know what the exact ranking number is cut off for Madrid main draw, but I think I will be close to the cut line. 
Obviously if I do well and win more matches here, then the schedule will stay there and I'll start main draw there.   I think either way I will still go and I will start in Madrid.   If I have to play quallies I will play quallies and hopefully be in the main.

Q.   Stay through Wimbledon?
JACK SOCK:   I think as of now stay through the French, come back, and then probably go back over for that Boodles event there like I did last year.   I kind of like that schedule, getting some matches in there and then playing Wimbledon. 
It can always change. 

Q.   Was that a rip in your shoe?
JACK SOCK:   Yeah.   I go through shoes kind of quick.   I got those fresh out of the box two days ago, and I think, once again, kind of the physicality, kind of the way I play, I slide a lot, and I actually went through both the shoe and the sock and then into my foot.   I was bleeding out there. 
But once again, it's more perspective of things.   It's just, you know, kind of heat of the moment.   You're in a competitive match and you don't really feel the adrenaline or whatever it is, so I just kept going.

Q.   How did you get it ripped?   Looked ripped on top. 
JACK SOCK:   Yeah, just from sliding.   Left foot sliding on the ground. 

Q.   Can you talk a little bit about the third set?   You had the early break and then he broke back.   Can you just talk about like the change of momentum and what you did to get it back to finish out the match?
JACK SOCK:   Yeah.   I got the early break in the third, kind of didn't feel ‑‑ tennis‑wise didn't feel fantastic today, so I kind of had to change it up and put some‑‑ I mean, chip some returns in, kind of just get into the point. 
First match back I knew kind of the serve and return were going to be the last things to kind of feel the best.   I knew once I kind of got in the point maybe I could use my defensive skills or scrap a little bit and find a way to break. 
I was able to do that early.   And then actually going into the 4‑3 game was thinking with these courts throw some kicks in on the first and make sure I get my first serve in, because obviously the mentality changes on the guy who is returning when first serve is in play.   I was able to not do that, and I think I threw in a double maybe.   Played a few good points and got broken. 
But, yeah, 5‑All he was up 40‑Love and gave me one or two doubles in that game.   Then that last point I kind of, once again, used my movement, which I think is one of my strengths, and was able to scrap out that last ball.   Thankfully he let it go and it landed in the corner and I was able to get the break and get the match there at the end. 

Q.   Surprised he didn't go for that? 
JACK SOCK:   Yeah, actually right when I hit it I thought I missed it.   I thought it was going wide, and then, you know, as it was in the air, middle of going over the net, I thought it was going in.   I think it was right in the corner, so it was pretty close. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT