ROGERS CUP MEN
August 6, 2014
Jack Sock
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. RAONIC/J. Sock
  4‑6, 7‑6, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   What can you say?   What do you think made the difference when the match is that close?  
JACK SOCK:   Obviously just a few points.   I had a few forehands that I usually don't miss, I wouldn't miss, that let me down in two kind of big points.   
I had a good look at one at 3‑2 up in the breaker to go up a mini break, and then obviously there at whatever it was, 3‑4, missed another one by a few inches.   
Next time just gotta make 'em.  
   
 Q.   That final set seemed like whoever was going to blink first was going to lose the match.   Did you really feel the service game was that important in the third?  
JACK SOCK:   Service game?   
   
 Q.   Yeah, just holding serve.   
JACK SOCK:   Most important thing you can do when you play him, usually when you get down a break it usually means the set is over.   
My biggest goal tonight was to take care of the serve, as it was last week when we played.   Got broken once in two weeks against him.   
I was happy with the way I served and the way I took care of my service games.   That's why he kind of is where he is.   He kind of comes up big in those moments, and I definitely had my chances and it's tough one to swallow.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the adjustments you made from the last time you played him in Washington to tonight and how do you think you executed on those?  
JACK SOCK:   I just held serve last week, could have easily been three sets as well.   I was up 5‑3 in the second serving, and he played a good game.   I played a little bit looser game.   
And tonight I really took care of my serve well, I think.   I only faced four break points.   Against a guy top 10, that's usually pretty good.   
Tonight, yeah, I just felt when I did get the ball back on his serving, I felt pretty comfortable.   Just a matter of trying to get his serve back.  
   
 Q.   What was it like playing in front of a crowd like the crowd that we had tonight?  
JACK SOCK:   It was fun.   It was very fun atmosphere.   A couple of them were a little more rude than I thought.   I thought he got treated pretty well last week in the States, and there were some pretty inappropriate comments tonight.   
But it kind of is what it is, and kind of used to now when you play in other countries, they want their home guy to win, understandable.  
It was a lot of fun.   I thought they really got in it towards the end of the first set.   I thought people were still filing in and not as loud.   But then at the end it was pretty electric, and you could definitely feel it out there.   
It was a lot of fun.   I really enjoy playing in front of crowds.   Even if it's not in my home country and fans cheering for me necessarily, it's still a lot of fun.   And hopefully I can do that many more times.  
   
 Q.   I was going to ask basically the same question, but sort of follow‑up on that, did that sort of affect the results in any way?  
JACK SOCK:   No.   I mean, fans saying anything didn't change whether I missed those forehands by two inches or not.  
   
 Q.   Did you feel, given Milos being under pressure here, you have had some success against him that you could maybe, that it was an easier match for you to win than for him to lose, if that makes any sense?   
JACK SOCK:   Yeah, I don't know.   I think ‑‑I don't know what he played last year before this tournament, but I think it was somewhat of a similar thing.   He came in later, maybe played the week before and then made the finals.   
I think he's used to it now and then is an established top‑10 player.   So I think for him to come back and play in front of his home crowd, I think he was pretty comfortable.   
For me, I always enjoy playing him.   I always feel like we have pretty good battles.   Obviously we had another one tonight, and it didn't go my way.   
I feel, like I said, I feel like if I can scrap out some returns and get in some points, I feel pretty comfortable out there.   Tonight it just didn't go my way.  
   
 Q.   Five sets you have played against Milos in the last two weeks.   Four have gone to tiebreakers.   You seem like you're right there.   Does that give you a lot of confidence with your game, knowing you can take a guy like Milos to the brink as much as you have?  
JACK SOCK:   Yeah, I mean, I think I have a fairly decent amount of confidence right now in general just from the summer.   It's been a great summer for me, not only success but just experience, going through the Wimbledon draw and being there till the end and then making my first two semis back to back, and feels like everything is falling in place for me right now.   
I feel very good about my game and about my body and how everything is going.   I'm really looking forward to the rest of the year and the rest of the summer.   Hopefully I can just keep going.  
   
 Q.   I guess you'd like to put in a few more first serves in the tiebreak?   
JACK SOCK:   Yeah, for me, second‑set tiebreak for sure.   Missed a few kind of just trying to put them in.   And the third set actually felt I served all right.   Was in those points in my serve.   Just a couple balls I missed by a few inches.  
   
 Q.   After the second set when you lost your concentration, when you throw the racquet, how this could affect as a psychological preparation for the next games or next tournament?  
JACK SOCK:   When I threw my racquet?   
   
 Q.   Yeah.   
JACK SOCK:   I had to go to the bathroom, so I dropped my racquet on my bag.   Maybe I didn't hit it, but I had to go to the bathroom pretty bad.   
I ran in there, and I came back.   And I didn't get broken in the third, so I thought my concentration was pretty good, actually.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT