ROLAND GARROS
May 31, 2014
Jack Sock
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 D. LAJOVIC/J. Sock 
      6‑4, 7‑5, 6‑3 
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please.   
   
 Q.   Kind of a tough match.   The second set seemed to be the swing point, right?  
    JACK SOCK:   Yeah, yeah, he played better today.   Yeah, there was a lot of close moments and opportunities for me, but I wasn't able to capitalize.  
   
 Q.   You were all over his serve in that second set.   I mean, all kinds of opportunities.   What was preventing you from breaking through there?  
    JACK SOCK:   Winning one of the break points, I guess.   I mean, came up with some pretty good shots.   I had a set point, he served, volleyed through the only time in the match, hit a pretty good half volley on one of them.   Then I wasn't able to capitalize.  
   
 Q.   How mad are you at yourself?  
    JACK SOCK:   Not mad.   Just a little disappointed after playing pretty well in the second round and pretty high confidence, but he came out and played some great tennis today and deserved to win.  
   
 Q.   Did all the noise from the guys who were down at the baseline there, does that get to you during the course of the match?   They were particularly loud.   
    JACK SOCK:   Yeah, I knew that going in, the Serbian fans like to be loud and crazy.  
   
 Q.   You had some treatment on your arm.   What was it about?   Just general stiffness?   What's going on?  
    JACK SOCK:   Yeah, just a little tendinitis.  
   
 Q.   You said he played better than you today, but based on some of the body language and your work with the racquet, seemed like you were pretty frustrated at times in the match.   What was not sort of clicking for you?   What did you feel was missing?  
    JACK SOCK:   I just think my strengths weren't really clicking today.   Didn't serve the best, and forehand wasn't doing as much as I wanted to, which was allowing him to use his strength, which is his backhand and kind of move around the court and kind of dictate a lot of points.  
    I felt I was doing a lot of the running when it's usually the other way around.   That was probably the most frustrating part.  
   
 Q.   Overall tournament assessment?  
    JACK SOCK:   Positive, steps forward.  
   
 Q.   What's next?  
    JACK SOCK:   Wimbledon.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT