U.S. OPEN
August 29, 2013
Jack Sock
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. SOCK/M. Gonzalez
      7‑6, 1‑6, 7‑5, 6‑2

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How do you like playing here at the tennis center?
    JACK SOCK:   I mean, it's always amazing coming back and playing.   I feel like I always play some of my best tennis here.   So I always look forward to coming back every year. 

Q.   You're one of two guys playing singles, doubles and mixed in the tournament. 
    JACK SOCK:   Not anymore. 

Q.   Why do you think that's so rare today?
    JACK SOCK:   I mean, doubles with James, I heard it might have been his last tournament.   We had success earlier in the year.   We get along well.   We're good friends.   Just thought it would have been a fun time to play with him in his last tournament. 
    Then just playing doubles mixed with Sloane.   We're also good friends.   Also thought that might be some more fun.   See how it goes. 

Q.   You wouldn't have played doubles otherwise?
    JACK SOCK:   I don't know.   Mixed was kind of a last‑minute decision.

Q.   Can you see anyone winning all three titles of a major anytime soon?
    JACK SOCK:   Probably not.   I don't know.   It would take a lot of effort. 

Q.   Talk about your match a little bit, singles. 
    JACK SOCK:   I thought I did things well.   The things I do well, I thought I did well today.   Serve came in handy for me at big times.   Used my forehand in aggression at key moments really well. 
    Yeah, was fortunate enough to get through. 

Q.   Feel better than the first round?
    JACK SOCK:   Yeah, I mean, it was a completed match.   The first round kind of came out of nowhere.   Yeah, the second one was kind of a little dogfight.   The guy makes a lot of balls.   It felt kind of good to be able to play my game and get past a player and a guy who is in the second round for a reason.

Q.   Have you played Tipsarevic?
    JACK SOCK:   No.

Q.   What do you know about him?
    JACK SOCK:   Obviously a very good player.   Been in the top 10 before, I believe.   Got a good serve, solid off both sides, moves well.   I think it should be a good match. 
    Just go out and do the things I do well, see how it goes. 

Q.   Did you watch James' match last night?
    JACK SOCK:   I did actually, yeah. 

Q.   From your hotel?
    JACK SOCK:   Yeah.

Q.   What were you thinking as it wrapped up?
    JACK SOCK:   Yeah, it was a little bit difficult to watch.   I mean, I feel like I've gotten closer to him this year.   Being up two sets to love, knowing how much he wanted to win, do well in this tournament, I'm sure is so hard on him. 
    Yeah, kind of hard to watch at the end getting a little emotional.   But he's a great friend.   I was fortunate enough to play again with him today in the doubles and I wish him the best.

Q.   A lot of nerves in that match knowing it could be his last match tonight?
    JACK SOCK:   Not really.   We get along well on the court.   We play well together.   We were just having fun and seeing how we were doing. 
    Yeah, it sucks it was his last one, but I'm sure he'll have a good time after this. 

Q.   Sort of cool to have been there for his last one?
    JACK SOCK:   Yeah.   It's an honor to be able to play with him in his last match at the Open.   Obviously wish it could have been longer.   It is what it is and I had a blast.

Q.   Did he get much sleep? 
    JACK SOCK:   I didn't ask.   I didn't bring up last night at all. 

Q.   Do you have any idea what he's been doing since last night?
    JACK SOCK:   No, I didn't talk to him about anything last night.   We just talked about the doubles and had some fun on the court. 

Q.   Talk about the progress of the Americans in tennis, you and Isner and the others. 
    JACK SOCK:   Yeah, I think we're all doing the right thing.   We're all doing better.   Isner and Sam and Mardy and those guys that are up there are doing a great job.   The young guys my age and close to me are working hard to try to get there and bring more guys to the top. 
    But we all realize it's a process.   We're just working hard and kind of pushing each other to kind of get back to it.

Q.   On paper you have a pretty decent draw.   The next round will be a test and battle.   How much are you looking forward to getting to the latter stages of a major?
    JACK SOCK:   Yeah, I mean, both guys I played so far are in the tournament for a reason.   No draw I think in any Grand Slam is any easy draw. 
    Yeah, I was fortunate enough to get through these two matches.   I'll have a big test next.   I'm excited to keep playing the tournament and hopefully keep playing better and better as the tournament goes on and see what I can do. 

Q.   Has James given you anything in terms of your game on the court?
    JACK SOCK:   I mean, he's given me little tips here and there.   No, I mean, last thing tonight, he said it's a joy watching me and he'll definitely be in my corner the rest of my career and have fun watching me. 
    Yeah, he's a great guy and a good friend.   He'll always give you advice here and there.   So, yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT