U.S. OPEN
August 27, 2013
Jack Sock
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. SOCK/P. Petzschner
      7‑6, 3‑6, 5‑2 (ret.)

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How was it out there today?
    JACK SOCK:   It was good.   It was a great feeling to be back playing here in New York at the Open.   Always look forward to coming back.   Was fortunate enough to get the win.   Unfortunate for him, he had sustained and injury I guess in his shoulder is what he called the trainer for.   Bad luck for him, but obviously happy to move on and advance in the draw. 

Q.   Ten years ago was the last time an American man won a major.   You're the last American junior male to win the US Open junior title.   What do you have to say about that?
    JACK SOCK:   Yeah, obviously it's been a little bit of a slump, I guess.   But there's a lot of young guys around my age that are trying to work as hard as they can and fight to get American tennis back. 
    The guys up there now, John and Sam and Mardy, obviously Andy until last year, have all been doing a great job of staying up there and keeping us alive.   I think a lot of us are obviously trying to push each other, starting to train together and push each other, work hard with each other to try to get back to the top. 
    Hopefully we can do it sooner than later. 

Q.   Two weeks from now, it's going to be the usual suspects.   Are they so above us that we're hoping to play for runner‑up status?
    JACK SOCK:   I mean, I don't know.   Obviously it's looked like that for the last little while.   Those guys have a lot of experience.   Obviously have been out here for a long time.   We're still kind of up‑and‑coming, getting experience under our belt, years under our belt, matches like that under our belt. 
    It's a process.   We all know that.   Like I said, we're all working hard and pushing each other to try to get to that level. 

Q.   Seemed like Pete and Andre got to that level a lot faster. 
    JACK SOCK:   Yeah, hopefully we can please you guys sooner than later. 

Q.   What do you like about New York, this tournament?
    JACK SOCK:   Just the atmosphere, the feeling.   I mean, for an American player, obviously there's nothing like it.   Coming here there's an excitement in the air.   There's a feeling in the air that you don't get anywhere else.   For some reason it helps me out a lot.   I feel like I play some of my best tennis here.   I always look forward to coming back here.   I think it's pretty mutual across the board for some of the American players.   They obviously all love coming back here and playing.   Hopefully we can show it the next two weeks.

Q.   In your own game, where do you feel like you are?   How do you feel about your season so far?
    JACK SOCK:   I think there's been a lot of improvement.   Physically feel great.   Feel a lot better shape physically.   Mentally feel good.   Been working on stuff in my game.   There's always stuff to work on. 
    Just trying to polish things up.   I think I've been doing a good job throughout the year.   Hopefully can show it here this week. 

Q.   On the women's side of American tennis, there's so many young Americans.   A little less so on the men's side.   Can you reflect on that, the issues involved in that?
    JACK SOCK:   I think I've answered this a couple times already. 
    There's just a group of young Americans on the men's side that are all pushing each other and working with each other to get to that level.   Obviously the women have done it quicker and are doing a great job.   That's great for American tennis and great for them.   We're just trying to do the same. 
    I mean, it's happened faster for them.   But I think if we keep doing what we're doing, keep pushing each other, we can get there as well.

Q.   When we see you a year from now here, where would you like to be in the ATP ranking?
    JACK SOCK:   Wherever I'll be in a year.   I don't have a number. 

Q.   When did you make the decision to turn pro instead of going to college, was that something you discussed with your family or was it a decision between you and your coach?   What advice would you give up‑and‑coming kids who are getting ready to make that decision?
    JACK SOCK:   I was forced into it by that guy right there in the hat (laughter).   No, I'm kidding. 
    Yeah, I discussed it with my family, coaches that I was working with at the time.   Yeah, obviously talked about a lot.   Wasn't an easy decision.   Even up until the junior US Open, and even after, I mean, I was set on going to college for a long time growing up.   I didn't really think about pro tennis until I started playing some futures and had some success here in the juniors. 
    I mean, yeah, it was a tough one.   I mean, after long discussions, talks about it, I felt at the time I was ready to go and explore the ATP Tour.   I mean, if I had gone to school, I would have wanted to finish, go for four years, get the full college experience. 
    Happy where I am now.   It's a process.   Had some great moments throughout my career so far.   Hopefully it's a long one to come.

Q.   Do you ever regret your decision?
    JACK SOCK:   No.   I mean, playing tennis for a living, very few get to do.   I love competing, I love traveling, I love playing.   Couldn't ask for a better life right now.

Q.   What schools were you considering?
    JACK SOCK:   Nebraska.

Q.   You have a distinctive last name.   Ever had a foe with a more distinctive pair of socks than today?
    JACK SOCK:   People run with it, make jokes with it.   I like it.   It's a good name.   Easy, simple, American name.   I like it.

Q.   Ever seen an opponent with socks like he was wearing out there today?
    JACK SOCK:   Him and Andre Sa wear the high socks.   Only those guys. 

Q.   How much do you feel the absence of Roddick and James Blake, Mardy has been off tour, do you feel anything?   Are you young guys in your own world doing your own thing that it doesn't have that much impact?
    JACK SOCK:   I mean, obviously Andy has been missed a lot.   It's been a year now.   I think at the beginning it was definitely kind of a lot more severe not seeing him every week like everyone was used to.   He was a great guy, friendly to all of us.   I think he was liked around the locker room by everyone. 
    It was sad to see him go.   I think he's having a good time now.   I think he's enjoying the new FOX Sports job he has.   But, I mean, he was a great role model and a great mentor for all of us. 
    I mean, it will be sad for James to go obviously after this tournament.   I've gotten close with him kind of the last six months, kind of throughout this year, spent some more time around him playing doubles and stuff.   He's kind of a great friend and mentor. 
    Yeah, I mean, it's sad to see these guys go, but they've been doing it for a long time, had a lot of success, had very great careers.   You just kind of wish them the best in the future. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT