U.S. OPEN
August 30, 2012
Jack Sock
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. SOCK/F. Cipolla
  6‑2, 6‑2, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   That was pretty straightforward for you, was it?   Did you feel in control from start to finish?
JACK SOCK:   Singles?   Yeah, yeah.   I mean, I played him earlier this summer in L.A. and he definitely took care of me there.   I think I lost like 3‑1. 
Today I had a little bit different game plan coming in.   Felt different from the start and I think it showed.

Q.   What did you change?
JACK SOCK:   In L.A. I was pretty impatient, playing too risky.   He obviously doesn't miss very much.   He gets a lot of balls back, grinds a lot. 
Today I was a little more patient waiting for the right ball to attack, be aggressive, and I think it worked out pretty well.

Q.   A lot of tennis players in Nebraska, or are you about it?
JACK SOCK:   Me and Andy a long time ago when he was in Omaha. 

Q.   You were in Kansas from when?
JACK SOCK:   Starting in fifth grade.   I was in fifth grade in Kansas City. 

Q.   In Overland Park?
JACK SOCK:   Yeah. 

Q.   You saved a lot of breakpoints in singles, crazy tiebreaker in doubles.   What made you so successful on the big points?
JACK SOCK:   I don't know.   Talked about this a couple days ago.   I haven't really felt nervous in a tennis match in a long time.   I don't know what it is, but I think it's a pretty good attribute for me and a pretty good thing for me to have. 
I mean, a lot of breakpoints down.   I feel comfortable where I am, feel confident.   I think it shows on the big points.

Q.   Pretty good run in Atlanta leading up to L.A.   Emotionally, psychologically after that loss, where do you feel that left you?
JACK SOCK:   I mean, you can't win 'em all, unless you're Novak last year.   You are going to play well some weeks, you're going to play poorly some weeks.   Atlanta I played well, had a good run, made quarters, lost to John.   Flew straight to L.A., played the next day, didn't play my best tennis.   I don't know.   It just happens.   I'm going to lose a lot more in my career.   I'm not going to dwell on a loss.

Q.   Was that a difficult decision to turn pro last year? 
JACK SOCK:   Yeah, I mean, I didn't really know, I would say, until last summer, early summer, before I turned pro right before the Open last year.   I mean, even through my junior year, senior year of high school, I always thought college is what I was going to do. 
I love team stuff.   I was really looking forward to playing on a team, having teammates, enjoying that experience. 
But I felt I was ready.   Once I started school‑‑ I'm a guy who likes to finish things I start.   Once I started school, I was going to be attached and want to finish and get my degree and everything.   Just made the decision to turn pro.

Q.   Any surprises to the pro life so far?
JACK SOCK:   Not really.   Just still getting used to the traveling and playing week after week and stuff.   That's the thing I'm still trying to get a lot of experience in.   I mean, not really.   Just still adjusting. 

Q.   What do you think holds you back now from being a top‑20 guy? 
JACK SOCK:   I mean, I think it's just matches and experience, like I said.   I've been playing about a year like full‑time now.   I've also been out for three or four months with an injury earlier this year.   I think it's just matches, experience, playing a lot. 
Obviously I can always improve my game, improve the physicality, the shape I'm in and everything.   As long as I keep doing that, working hard, I think I can get there. 

Q.   You signed a bunch of autographs today.   Do you remember when your first autograph signing was?
JACK SOCK:   Not really.   I mean, junior US Open a couple years ago is when I think it started more and more.   Every year here in New York, it seems to increase.

Q.   What do you take from Andy Roddick's career?
JACK SOCK:   Yeah, I mean, he was a guy I watched growing up a lot, especially when he was winning this tournament, playing really well.   I mean, I was just coming up as a junior, so he was definitely a guy I watched and looked up to and idolized.   I mean, it's definitely going to be a big loss to the tour.   He's a great guy, always nice to me.   I thought we were friends. 
I wish him the best after this.   Hopefully he can do something here this week, as well. 

Q.   What does coming into New York do for you?
JACK SOCK:   I love it here.   I've said it in every interview.   I absolutely love playing here.   I love being in the city.   I'd never been to New York until the junior US Open a couple years ago.   I mean, it's incredible here.   The atmosphere, the crowd, everyone that comes out, the adrenaline rush, the excitement you get from them is just surreal.   I always love coming here.

Q.   Are you ready for the attention that's going to come now that Andy is away from the game?
JACK SOCK:   Yeah, I don't think it's just me.   It's not going to be much more attention than it is. 
Yeah, he's gone.   It's a tough loss for American tennis.   But, I mean, John, Mardy, Ryan, Donald, myself, Kudla.   It's definitely just not going to be all me.

Q.   Dumb question.   Does anybody ask you about doing a socks commercial, sock endorsement?
JACK SOCK:   No.   Maybe in the future we'll see.   Hopefully. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT