LAVER CUP
September 20, 2019
Jack Sock
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Jack, you've put a very big smile on your captain's face tonight. Congratulations. A brilliant match. I'm not sure how many people in this stadium know that you played very little tennis this year. How did you come out here and beat one of the best players in the world?  
JACK SOCK: I don't know. It's been a long road back. I'm sure everyone here is surprised I won a singles match. It's been a while.   
Yeah, I had thumb surgery in February. I was out for almost six months with it. Yeah, it's been a few tournaments this year, a few matches this year. But for some reason, Laver Cup seems to bring the best tennis out of pretty much everyone here. It's always some pretty incredible matches.   
Shapo had a friggin' heartbreaker the first one, being so close. I came out just with a lot of energy. Just stuck to my game.   
I played good singles before, so I know it's in me. It's an amazing feeling to bring it out today, playing for these guys and not just myself.   
 Q.  What is more remarkable is in the second set Fabio really came back at you. How were you able to keep your level and push through and win this match in two?  
JACK SOCK: Just stick to my guns, I guess, same as I always do. I looked to obviously serve pretty big and use my forehand and try and dictate. I felt like I did that pretty well today.   
But yeah, he definitely turned it up in the second. I was able to scrap out some points, I think. I was able to hold a lot from being down in service games, which is huge.   
Yeah, most importantly, just happy to get a win for the team.   
 Q.  How important are all these guys, your team of coaches?  
JACK SOCK: They're amazing. Obviously I wasn't probably expected to play this year. I didn't think I'd get a call. But to be back with these guys, John and Nick, this is our third year with it. Shapo played Prague. And to have another American, and Milos, who can beat anybody in the world, it's an incredible team, we have incredible chemistry. Our atmosphere in the locker room and now here is just, I think, second to none.   
I'm just excited to get a win today, and let's just keep it going.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT