U.S. OPEN
September 11, 2010
Jack Sock
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. SOCK/M. Fucsovics
  6-3, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Playing in the main draw, do you think that helped you move into the juniors at all?
 JACK SOCK: Yeah, I do. I think it gave me a lot of experience and a lot of practice with some of the top guys hitting with the bigger ball, and then being able to come back and kind of use that to my advantage and kind of try to dictate points myself.
 Yeah, I think it helped.

 Q. Who did you hit with?
 JACK SOCK: I've hit with Federer, um, Djokovic, Warinka, Querrey, Mathieu.

 Q. How did that all get arranged?
 JACK SOCK: Just either one of the USTA coaches or the players' coaches will contact my coach, Mike Wolf, and they'll arrange a time or whatever on the court.

 Q. That was on the weekend?
 JACK SOCK: That was before the tournament started, the men's, and during. Yeah, right before the tournament started.

 Q. What was in your mind after hitting with these guys?
 JACK SOCK: Um, that they're very, very good, obviously, and they have worked hard to get there.
 I think if we keep working hard, the juniors, or if I keep working hard, hopefully we can get to that level some day and hit with younger kids.

 Q. You made the American dream tournament; two Yanks in the finals. How does that make you feel? It hasn't happened in almost 10 years?
 JACK SOCK: I was very excited. Actually when Denis won, I was -- obviously we all wanted an all-American final.

 Q. He was finished before you went on?
 JACK SOCK: Yeah. Yeah, he was done, yeah, before I went on. I was happy. I congratulated him. I was in the locker room, saw him in the locker room, and said, Nice job. 
 Yeah, I think that's gonna be great, I think, for the crowd. Hopefully there is a crowd. (Smiling.)
Yeah, I think that was good for American tennis. I think just up-and-comers, hopefully we can put on a good show and put on a good match.

 Q. You've been here almost three weeks. What do you like about this place? What's the feel of being in one tournament location that's brand new for you for three weeks?
 JACK SOCK: Yeah, I mean, New York is a great place to visit, in my mind - to visit. I'm a Midwest guy, though. I think the three weeks here is my maximum here. No, but I do actually I like it a lot. I love being in the city there at night, seeing all the sweet buildings and the skyline.
 But, I mean, after -- three weeks is a long time, but I mean, it's good experience obviously being here. And the lounge food can start tasting the same after a while, but it's good. I like it. I'm glad I did it.

 Q. Did you book the flight for three weeks?
 JACK SOCK: Um, I don't know. I don't do the flights. That was my parents. I don't know what they booked it for.

 Q. I'll talk to them. 
 JACK SOCK: Yeah.

 Q. Did you play doubles with Kudla at some point, in the 12s, maybe? 
 JACK SOCK: Yeah, in the 12s. We won clay courts in the 12s, 2004.

 Q. But you don't really have a history of playing against him, it seems. 
 JACK SOCK: Yeah, I've only played him once in the juniors at Kalamazoo. I was 15, I think.

 Q. Who won that?
 JACK SOCK: He won 4 in the third.

 Q. Was that your first Gold Ball and his first Gold Ball?
 JACK SOCK: It was his, yeah, it was both of ours.

 Q. Can you talk a little bit about how you've managed to stay grounded and have, you know, a regular teenage lifestyle with academics and everything compared to playing on the biggest stage here at the US Open?
 JACK SOCK: Yeah, I'm happy with the path I chose growing up. Definitely having a little bit of social life and going to a public school in Lincoln where I grew up through fourth grade and then in Kansas City from fifth grade on till now, yeah, I'm happy with it. 
 I think you need a little bit of both in your life. I think, home schooling, or it can be just tennis, tennis, tennis or school, school -- or, I mean, school when you can, when you're not traveling.
 You see some kids kind of get burned out after a while. I mean, some people make it, and that's good. But I think for my personality and my lifestyle, I think I had a good blend of being in a public school and having a lot of friends back at home and being able to see them when I am home. 
 It's worked out pretty well so far, so I'm happy with my decision.

 Q. When you travel, are there certain things that you do to just kind of keep it real, or, you know, have rituals, favorite restaurants along the way?
 JACK SOCK: I've had Chipotle here. It's right across from the street from our hotel. I've had it 14 nights in a row, I think.
 I like to have kind of a strict routine. I'm not gonna -- especially here in New York, I'm not just going to go to a random restaurant where I don't know how my body will react to the food. 
 I mean, Chipotle, they know my name in Kansas City; there's one right by my house. So especially now that I have a car, after school I usually go there.
 But, yeah, kind of having a strict routine helps you when you're on the road and not getting away from your own rituals.

 Q. I saw you and Mike out here watching boys doubles match last night. I was a little bit surprised at that. 
 JACK SOCK: Oh, yeah. The finals or the semis? 

 Q. Are you like a tennis nut?
 JACK SOCK: No, I think I was already here. I mean, I got showered and stuff and gotten -- I was getting ready to go, but actually I wanted to see some of the Clijsters/Venus match. 
 So actually I went on Ashe for a little bit and watched some of that. I think it was before that -- actually before that I was out because the guys we lost to in doubles, I just wanted to see a couple of games and how they were doing.
 Yeah, I actually do. I like to watch tennis a lot, especially live. I do enjoy it. When I do get a chance, I'll go out and watch. Obviously after a while, if it's too late or something, then I'm not going to go out there and watch. 
 After this, I'm gonna go -- hopefully if the match is still on in Ashe, I will go and watch some of that.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT