NCAA WOMEN'S GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
May 22, 2019
Kim Lewellen
Emelia Migliaccio
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Opening statement and then we'll take questions from the media.   
KIM LEWELLEN: What an exciting championship here with the venue, the volunteers, the teams, the competition.  It was just an exciting time.  I think I speak for the entire team; we say thank you to everyone.  Great competition.  Obviously we would have liked to have come out on top but we've had a great year and congratulations to Duke.   
 Q.  Along the same line, you had a great tournament.  Your takeaway from this outstanding week?  
EMELIA MIGLIACCIO: Yeah, what an honor to be here and rip Wake Forest and compete for a National Championship.  The volunteers, everyone, everyone who put this tournament together made it perfect and it's just incredible to see how women's golf continues to evolve and I can't wait for next year.   
 Q.  Can you just sum up what Jennifer Kupcho has meant to Wake Forest and maybe try to put into words the legacy she's going to leave behind?  
KIM LEWELLEN: It's hard to describe the impact.  I think that the world has seen it, just recently in the last few months with how she's impacted women's golf by winning Augusta National, and Wake Forest University, also by being a national champion.  But also by deferring her LPGA status to be here with her team and help us get to the final match today, to win an ACC Championship, she's done a lot for Wake Forest University and a lot for women's golf.   
And so her impact, yes, is on Wake Forest University, but it's going to impact women's golf for a lifetime.  She's a pioneer at Augusta National holding that trophy for the first time.  She's done a lot for this sport.   
 Q.  If I could ask the same question from a player's standpoint, what Jennifer coming back meant to the team and maybe how she's helped you develop as a player.  
EMELIA MIGLIACCIO: Yeah, we were all so happy that she came back.  It really shows her dedication and her loyalty.  I'm so glad, because she obviously is a big reason why we made it to the finals, and just from a competitive standpoint, you know, she pushes everyone to their best, for them to be their best, and that's why we, you know, were in the Finals for the National Championship.   
So she's made an incredible impact.   
 Q.  Talk about the match itself, three of the matches going to extra holes.  As you make that turn and you get up 18, from a coach's standpoint, what were you telling the players and what was the mind set?  
KIM LEWELLEN: I think you don't really have to tell them that much because they know what's at stake.  They see the leaderboard.  You try to keep them in a good mind-set, but they want this as bad as anyone, so they are out there fighting and grinding, and you just try to get them to think about that particular shot and what they need to do, and play the best that they can.   
I'll tell you what, those were some matches.  I tell you what, we were paired up pretty well for those holes to go like they did and to extend that way.  I think as probably a lot of the people watching, you're like, oh, well, Wake looks good, Duke looks good, Wake looks good; who knows now.  It came down to the last, obviously shots, and it was just a great tournament and a great competition.   
 Q.  You're obviously very familiar with golf in the ACC and I think today is a good kind of example of kind of growth in that little pocket of women's golf.  So maybe you could talk about that from your perspective?  
KIM LEWELLEN: You know, I've been part of the ACC now for 12, subpoena years, and as a player, as well, the competition; to have, you know, obviously Duke and wake and Florida State, Virginia has been ranked well.  Just the competition in the ACC, I think it pushes all of the teams in the ACC to be better.   
Conference championship, you look at a lot of those teams and they are always here.  It speaks volumes for the ACC conference.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT