WNBA FINALS: MONARCHS v SHOCK
September 6, 2006
Katie Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   KATIE SMITH:  We played a little harder and we played a little smarter, and basically that's how we ended up where we were.   
 So we brought and matched their intensity for the 40 minutes and when they made a little run I think in the first or second quarter, we withstood it and, you know, we were able to get stops and climb right back in the ballgame.   
  
  Q.  Before the game, I know there was a lot of talk about, you know, the Monarchs celebrating tonight and everything.  Did that kind of motivate you to want to say, let's bring it back to Detroit?   
 KATIE SMITH:  It was everything, not only the last game, the way we performed as competitors.  You want to get on the floor and basically right your wrongs in a way.   
 On top of that, no, we obviously we didn't want them to have their celebration tonight.  We would like another chance to go home and take care of business, also.  Obviously there's a ton of motivation but being in this setting and being in the WNBA Championship, it doesn't take much to get ready for this ballgame.   
 And a lot of talk, also, this team for whatever reason, focuses and tunes in with our backs are against the wall a little bit better than on a normal game day I guess.   
  
  Q.  You just heard your coach talking about playing at Joe Louis, what are your thoughts about going back to Detroit and playing back this that venue?   
 KATIE SMITH:  Excited about being back in Detroit but don't know anything about the venue.  Obviously a little different from the Palace.  I'm 32 years old, played basketball a long time, played in a ton of different arenas and it's going to be our crowd cheering for us and excited and giving us some momentum.  I don't care where we play.  It's the fifth game of the WNBA Championship and doesn't get much better than this.  We're going to go home and I hope we play as hard and as smart as we did tonight.   
  
  Q.  Can you just talk about that one little stretch where you hit the two shots in the row.   
 KATIE SMITH:  Yeah, there was a little steel plate there, we couldn't knock down shots.  I don't think we let them score a lot.  It was kind of like, you know, we were going back and forth and no one was really budging.  So obviously to get a bucket, that makes you breathe a little bit easier.  Kind of puts a little more pressure on them.   
 So I got a good look, was getting a little tired but got a good look and knocked it down.  Obviously the next bucket, probably most likely put it out of reach and we were able to relax a little bit and get our defense going and get down there and kind of run some clock.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT