WNBA FINALS: SHOCK v SILVER STARS
October 5, 2008
Deanna Nolan
Katie Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Congratulations on the Championship this year and going to Katie on this one, Finals MVP, 2008 Championship, Gold Medal, has it been a good year for you this year? 
 KATIE SMITH: I mean, it's been okay. (Laughter) It's been fun. It's just been a lot of fun. And you know what being MVP, Tweet, we just trade things off. It's fun to play with her. And Taj, she carried us through a lot this year, a lot of games, the series against New York. 
 The MVP goes to all of us. Taj, the reason why we are here is her. She gave us huge minutes with Plenette being out, that was big. And it's fun to play here in Detroit and fun to play with these guys, and I wouldn't want it any other way. 
 I'm going to take this year and go back home and relax and not do anything else for a while. 

 Q. Would you just talk a little bit about the will of this team, no matter how things looked in the first half, there was always this feeling that you guys would come back and take care of business?
 DEANNA NOLAN: As bad as we played in the first half with the turnovers, the fouls, the calls, you name it, we were own down four points. 
 It's one of those games to where we started off, they jumped us; okay, we came back into the game. We were missing shots. We were not making the shots we normally make. But at the same time, we knew down the stretch, we had to hit those shots, get to the basket and get to the free throw line and we did that in the second half and we were able to pull it off. 
 KATIE SMITH: We have a lot of competitors and fight in this team, and it starts from top to bottom. You see it with Bill, you see him on the sideline; he's playing the game. That's why he brought us all here and why he has us is we are here to compete. We don't go out there just to play. We go out there to win. We are pretty good at grinding things out, just like she said. It was not a pretty first half, and we were that close and we knew if we could get a couple of things to go right and get a little bit of a spurt, we knew we could do that.

 Q. Can you talk about that run you guys went on, the end of the third going into the fourth, brought you from one down to 16-up? 
 KATIE SMITH: Yeah, going into the third quarter we were up four -- that was huge, we obviously won that quarter and flip-flopped it and got up four. We knew, all right, ten minutes, that's what it boiled down to. 
 I thought we ran more and got a couple easy buckets, and Taj attacked. We got to the free throw line a little bit, but I think our defense picked up and it allowed us to get out a little bit, and we got a couple easier looks and we obviously gave ourselves a little cushion. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT