NHL HERITAGE CLASSIC: CANADIENS v FLAMES
February 20, 2011
Rene Bourque
Alex Tanguay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Rene, have you had many nights like that where aside from the two goals, 11 shots on goal and a night you could have had a couple more?  
 RENE BOURQUE: I think that was the most shots I've had probably in my career. I don't know for some reason, the pucks just kept coming to me on the left side. Trying to keep it simple.   
 He played well. He had a couple of good shots off, made some big saves. In the second period I went five (indiscernible) and went through legs and wide. Made a great play on the first goal and got a lucky break on the second one where I got that puck and I was able to go five on one.  
  
  Q. Maybe both can talk about this, the significance of scoring on that five on three. You get the first goal of the game on ice that's a little bit tricky, passed by you, Alex. Just how important was that for your team as you went on, maybe both you could answer that.   
 ALEX TANGUAY: Sure, I think it's always important five on three. You get momentum off of it. You can get a goal. If you don't, it gives the other team momentum. So we really want to bear down.   
 As you said, this start of the game I think the ice got better as we went along but at the start of the game the ice wasn't that great. So it was important for us to take the lead and play with that advantage.  
 RENE BOURQUE: I think it was huge. We had a lot of chances early on in that power play. And we didn't know how many goals it would take to win this game because of the ice conditions and the atmosphere that it was. So first goal and all after that it was just huge power plays.  
  
  Q. Rene, can you put it into perspective the bigger scale on moments in your hockey career, playing in front of 40,000, all the hype in the game, the game that you had. Is it something that maybe something five, ten years from now you look back on and think, man, that was pretty special? Where does this rank right now for you in hockey games you've played?  
 RENE BOURQUE: I think it's right up there playing your first game, scoring your first goal, things like that. It's just fun to be part of this and playing in front of these people, especially when you're sitting on the bench and you're looking out and seeing 40,000 people, cold outside, but they're cheering loud and having a good time.   
 And the first goal happened so fast. Great play by him. Got to enjoy the second one more. Knew I was going to get an opportunity to go in get a scoring chance. To score like that, it was really fun.  
  
  Q. Didn't seem to be as physical as normal. Were guys letting up or more pushing, punching, grabbing?  
 ALEX TANGUAY: I think at the start of the game you know there was some more intensity. I think bodies were colder than usual and stuff like that. I don't know if that made a difference for us.  
 It was just another game and we were trying to find ways to win. And I think with the size on our team we've got the ability to play physical with any team. So I think there may be like a team that's not as physical. I'm not sure how that turned out.  
 But I don't think the weather or the rink was a factor in that.   
  
  Q. Alex, if you could talk about how you rate this game in terms of the importance to you in your career. You've done a lot of things. Win a Stanley Cup. Where does this fit?   
 ALEX TANGUAY: Definitely not Game 7 of the Stanley Cup Finals, but this is a game that after my career I'm certainly going to cherish and remember. It's not every day that for us as a player we get a chance to play regularly in front of 20,000 people.   
 But it's not every day that you get to do it in front of the big stadium like that, in front of that many fans. And for the fans to brave the weather and stay out there for three periods, we were - yesterday we were skating around and we were cold. And those fans stayed out there for three periods. Sitting in their seats. It's pretty remarkable. It's a neat experience. And I'm glad that I've experienced it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT