NHL HERITAGE CLASSIC MEDIA CONFERENCE
February 19, 2011
Alex Tanguay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
  Q. Alex, I wanted to know what it's like going into this game as a playoff contender, just a couple of months ago we thought this would have not meant much, but it means a great deal?  
 ALEX TANGUAY: No, it does mean a great deal. For us, I think that we want it to mean a great deal in terms of the start of the year and that's exactly what we want. We're all enjoying what's happening right now. And it's certainly created a different atmosphere than it does in the regular season. But for us, once the game starts, it's more business as usual and we have to find ways to win.  
  
  Q. So many people counted you guys out a long time ago. What kept you together, and why are you still in it when everyone wrote you off a long time ago?  
 ALEX TANGUAY: We felt we just had a better team than what we were showing.   
 And it was certainly frustrating for us not to be able to get it done from day one. But we knew all along that if we just played the way we were capable of playing with the skill level, with the personnel we have, we felt we were a good enough team to win.  
 And right now, if you look at our game, I don't think any of the players are surprised by the success we're having. I think we're just playing up to our potential. I still feel we can play better. Hopefully we can accomplish that.  
 If we do that we're going to give ourselves a fair shot at being in the Playoffs.  
  
  Q. Growing up in Quebec, were you a Montreal Canadiens fan?  
 ALEX TANGUAY: No. I was a Nordiques fan all the way. So when I went to Montreal, you know, it was hard to put that jersey on for the first time.   
 But it was business. But it was a childhood dream of mine to play for the Nordique, and hopefully it might even happen now. So I'm looking forward to it that Quebec gets back in and looking forward to hopefully have a chance to play there.  
  
  Q. What does it mean to you personally to play against Montreal Canadiens in a game like this?  
 ALEX TANGUAY: I think it's going to be fun. I played there. I certainly don't know too many faces on that team anymore. But as far as I'm concerned, it doesn't matter really who we're going to play outside. We have to right now in the situation we're in, we have to win. And that's our reality. And I think that like I told you guys earlier, we're enjoying what's happening right now and get a chance to skate with my daughter out on the ice. It's all very interesting for all of us, all the people with families. It's an experience we don't have very often.  
 But once it starts tomorrow, we gotta find ways to win. And I'm sure that coach was saying the same thing before I got here and everybody you've talked to today have said the same thing. We're in a desperate situation where we desperately need points if we want to keep up in the standing. And tomorrow is another game for it.  
  
  Q. Weather-wise, how was it out there?  
 ALEX TANGUAY: It was good. I needed that stuff around the ear, we got that little - but other than that, it was great. I think the ice is - we're going to get the alumni to make the ice better for us, and it should be good. I think weather conditions won't be a factor. Unless it gets really windy, I haven't seen the reports, but other than that, I think everything will be fine and benches are really warm so it shouldn't be an issue at all.  
  
  Q. In terms of uniform and you got a chance to try out a few things today, anything you'll be doing differently or will things stay the same?  
 ALEX TANGUAY: No, I'll pretty much be wearing what I wear normally. It will be good. It's not going to be affecting us. I might have that stuff that covers the ears, we'll see how cold it is. But hopefully we won't have to. And looking forward to it. Hopefully we get a little bit of sun left to affect the goalies in the first period and hopefully we shoot on the right side at that time.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT