NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: DEVILS v AVALANCHE
June 9, 2001
Bobby Holik
Alex Tanguay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  What were you thinking when you went and got that puck and then put it in the net?

ALEX TANGUAY: I don't know, you don't think too much.  There's not too much time to be thinking out there. We have got to be better.  I think they played in our zone a little too much.  We just got to make sure we play better second playing their zone.


Q.  Obviously this is an enormous game at this point in your career.  What did you try and concentrate on as you prepared for it?

ALEX TANGUAY: You have to focus on what you have to do out there.  I think if you get caught up focusing on the game and what is going to happen afterward whether you win or you lose, you know, I think you are going to get -- you are going to get too wound up.  You just have to go out there and play another hockey game.

Q.  Patrick Roy had all the answers in Game 6, perfect for the first period tonight even with the help of a goal post.  What is it going to take?

BOBBY HOLIK: I don't think we should change much.  We are going pretty good.  We are in their end getting good quality shots.  I think what it is going to take is persistence and not letting up, and because we are getting closer so we have hit them several times.  Now we got the post and we just got to keep going.  If we are going to change then it is going to be the end of us, doesn't matter, he has been just outstanding.  We just got to keep going and keep creating more traffic there.


Q.  Game 7 of the Stanley Cup Finals novel experience for all but one of the Devils.  How much of a factor was nervousness in the first period?

BOBBY HOLIK: Well, it's more of anxiousness than anything else because you wait since the Game 6 ended, you just wait and wait and wait for the game to start, but I don't think we showed any signs of nervousness.  Just you know, there's two competitive teams out there and things will not always go the way you want so you just  got to keep going.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT