ING NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
November 2, 2011
Jen Houck
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q. Before your first marathon, what was your running background? 
 JEN HOUCK: Well, I ran in high school, I but I never went to like state or anything like that, not even close. College, same thing. I wasn't even close until my final year I worked with a different coach, and then I qualified in the 10K, for Nationals, and I ran the 10K Nationals, and I was ready to be done, And my coach was like no, keep going. 
 So I didn't really start dropping times a lot until the last couple of years and after college.

 Q. Where do you train? 
 JEN HOUCK: Everywhere. I'm from Minnesota, so I trained there most of my growing up or whatever, but then last fall I trained in Oregon. So right now I'm back in Minneapolis. 
 I just got back from Colorado training, and now I'm planning to go to D.C. because that's where my boyfriend is.

 Q. This is before your first New York City Marathon, correct? 
 JEN HOUCK: My first time in New York, too.

 Q. We just kind of went through your history of marathoning, you ran 2:33 this past August or June? 
 JEN HOUCK: June.

 Q. But it's been, it sounds like a steady progression for the last two years. The first marathon was 2:47 and you've been dropping ever since. Why the marathon? Why so successful in and the progression? 
 JEN HOUCK: I think a lot of it has to do with my build up with my coach too. We really haven't had any injuries. Had a little bit this summer, but for the past four years I haven't had any injuries or setbacks. 
 So I really haven't had to take any downtime from running, and I can just continue building a strong foundation and base.

 Q. You said you ran in high school, you weren't an All-Star by any means, went to D-3. Can you talk about that a little bit? 
 JEN HOUCK: In high school I was more of a 400, 800 runner. I just didn't train. I did it during the season. So just the friendships and stuff that I had. 
 In college I continued to run MAIA, one of my years, and I was very consistent all four years. I ran the same times, and then I started with my coach my final year. Then, yeah, I ended up just improving by minutes, and actually in my final year qualifying for a 10K for D3 Nationals. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT