ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE OPERATION BASKETBALL
October 29, 2014
James Robinson
Cameron Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Cameron, just what you've been able to take away from your teammates and how they've kind of upped your game and helped you to play better, what can you say about the guys that surround you? 
CAMERON TAYLOR:   You know, I love all my teammates.   We have a really great relationship.   I've never been a part of a team that has been so close in all my life.   I'm really looking forward to getting out there on the floor with these guys. 

Q.   This is one of the programs that probably has the fewest numbers of freshmen for this year, a lot of experience.   Can you comment on the experience? 
CAMERON TAYLOR:   Well, yeah.   A lot of returning guys.   Obviously we lost two great players in Lamar Patterson and Talib Zanna, but we have a lot of returning guys who have been in this program and are ready to step up and be leaders and to lead this program. 

Q.   Cameron, obviously with Pittsburgh having played in the Big East, you're known for the physical style of basketball that you've had.   Do you feel that that's translated over and you've been able to have that defining piece of your team in the ACC? 
CAMERON TAYLOR:   Oh, yeah, for sure.   Being physical isn't something that you lose.   We definitely have taken it into the ACC, and like I said before, we're really excited and anxious to get out there this year. 

Q.   Cameron, was playing in the ACC what you thought it might be or different?   What were the ways it was different, and how much adjustment did you have to make if any? 
CAMERON TAYLOR:   Honestly, basketball is basketball if you ask me.   The game is a little bit faster, but I enjoy playing at a fast tempo.   My teammates are extremely athletic and versatile, and we've all adapted and evolved into the style of play of the ACC. 

Q.   When you think about the season that you had last year and you think about this season, how do you define a successful season here in 14‑15? 
CAMERON TAYLOR:   Successful season would be having great practices every day, taking it one step at a time, and obviously everybody wants to be No.1, at the end of the year, being the conference champions and then going to Greensboro and finishing at that No.1 spot and going to the NCAA Tournament.   Would be ideal to win that, as well. 

Q.   As you're watching these players here in preseason, how would you define the personality of this team? 
JAMES ROBINSON:   I think we have a really competitive personality amongst our team and coaches, really.   We've had two blue‑gold scrimmages that really felt like games almost, and even the coaches that were coaching us really wanted to win, and I think that just is going to be beneficial to us late in the season where them games get tough, and it comes down to who really just wants it more. 

Q.   James, what can you say about playing with Cameron, what he's taught you, what you've been able to take away from him? 
JAMES ROBINSON:   Playing with Cam, he really makes the game easy for me.   I know where he's going to be at on the court, he knows where I'm going to be.   He's an active defender, and I can find him, and I know he's going to finish and make the best play.

Q.   7.6 points for you on average per contest last year.   Does that number need to go up?   Is it about right given the offense? 
JAMES ROBINSON:   I think I'm just going to be as assertive as I can.   I'm going to be aggressive, and I think Coach Dixon just wants me to be a threat this year on the offensive end, being aggressive, getting into the lane, taking my shot and finding the open man.   I think I just really need to work on that.

Q.   James, what has Coach Dixon really taught you?   How has he taken who you were in high school and improved you at this college level? 
JAMES ROBINSON:   I think just this year he's been telling me to get in the best shape I can, and I think that's really helping me become a better player and just being as aggressive as I can.   I'm going to make some mistakes, and I've just got to learn from them and keep on moving forward. 

Q.   You're in a really neat position where you've been able to play now in two conferences.   Last year was there a place or two that was fun for you to visit? 
JAMES ROBINSON:   I think every road game is unique.   I think every time we get to come out and compete against another team, it's fun.   It's fun preparing for them.   Obviously we didn't win every game, but it was still fun being out there playing, and I think our coaching staff did a really good job preparing us for the games, and as players, we've just got to come out and execute a little bit better.

Q.   We know it's one game at a time, but are you looking forward to Hawai'i this year? 
JAMES ROBINSON:   Definitely.   That's going to be a really fun trip for us.   We have some work to do, but when we get out there it's going to be a business trip, but we're also going to enjoy the experience.

Q.   Do you have to win the tournament out in Maui in order for it to be a successful business trip? 
JAMES ROBINSON:   That's our No.1 goal is to go out there and win.   I think we're going to go out there and compete as hard as we can, and everything will take care of itself. 

Q.   You're going to have a chance on January 19th to play at Cameron.   Somewhere in the back of your mind will that be a highlight? 
JAMES ROBINSON:   Definitely.   That's one of the more legendary places in the country to play.   I've never been there before, so it'll be new to me, and I think we're all looking forward to it, but at the same time we know we have other games on our schedule that we've got to take care of. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT