MISSISSIPPI GULF RESORT CLASSIC
March 23, 2013
Esteban Toledo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Just talk about obviously you have to be pleased.  
ESTEBAN TOLEDO:   Yeah, you know, the weather cooperate with us this morning, and it seemed like it might rain a little bit the afternoon, so we going to finish on time.   
But I had a wonderful round.   I putted well all day.   Seems like they just blow the horn.   But it was great.   I mean I putted well.   I hit the ball really, really well, and the crowd, they were ‑‑ that's the most important thing, the fans that they come over and support us, and I really appreciate that.   And all the media, the whole staff, the tournament director Steve put on, it was just fantastic.   It seemed like the people are very pleased with the tournament, so we're very happy about it.  
   
 Q.   At 7‑under, when did you get it started and rolling today?  
ESTEBAN TOLEDO:   Well, I guess the first hole I made about a 12‑footer for birdie, and then another one about 10 feet for birdie, the par‑3, the long one, and it went on and on and on.   I bogeyed 9, but I came back with the birdie on 12, I believe, and it just went on.  
But you know what, I hit it really, really well all day, and I never lost confidence.   I was very focused on what I was doing, and my caddy really got me going talking to me, so I got a little nervous coming in, but he was talking to me, so he was doing his job, and it seems like it's going to be fun for tomorrow, so I'm looking forward to tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Have you played this course before this weekend?  
ESTEBAN TOLEDO:   No.   I just turned 50, and I went to the qualifying school.   I've never played here before.   It seems like it's just a beautiful golf course, so I'm just a rookie guy that is just learning a lot of things about the golf courses.   And the whole thing, the traveling is just different that I've never experienced before.   The players are fantastic to me, and they've been great so far, so this is my number four of the year.   I had a good start last week in Toshiba Classic.   Now it seems like I'm going in the right track, so I have to be focused on what I'm doing tomorrow.   So it's going to be a good‑finishing tournament for everybody.  
   
 Q.   You're going to be in the final three.   Some are right around in there.  
ESTEBAN TOLEDO:   Well, it's always fun to play the last group, but also it's a lot of pressure going to the last group because you get all the attention.   But whatever I will be, it will be fine for me.   I'm excited for tomorrow.   It's going to seem like it's going to be a lot of fun tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   How does it feel going into the clubhouse holding the lead right now?   Your round is done.   There's guys still out there on the course.   You got your score done.  
ESTEBAN TOLEDO:   Well, I have to practice a little bit.   I'm not focused on them.   I need to be focused on me.   And it seems like it's going to be either one behind or ‑‑ hopefully one behind.   But you just don't know.   Right now it seems like they blow the horn, so it's going to be exciting for me tomorrow.   I've never been in the lead.   The last time I was tied for the lead it was with Tiger Woods in 2000.   So I learned a lot from him, so hopefully we'll put it all together tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel pretty good about the position you've put yourself in going in with 7‑under?  
ESTEBAN TOLEDO:   Absolutely.   I've been there a few times.   I've never took the lead before.   But I'm used to it.   The more I play on the last group, the more I feel better.   So it's going to be a good‑finishing tournament for everybody, but I am going to put my effort in the last round.   So we'll see what happens.  
   
 Q.   In the 2000 tournament with Tiger Woods, which one was that?  
ESTEBAN TOLEDO:   The last time we played, Tiger and I were in Flint, Michigan, outside Detroit.   And it was a battle between Tiger and I, and I really learned a lot from him.   Such a good player, and I learned to be focused on myself, and that's the way he does.   And I learned a lot from him.   So I'm looking forward for tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT