MAYAKOBA GOLF CLASSIC AT RIVIERA MAYA - CANCUN
February 23, 2008
Esteban Toledo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ESTEBAN TOLEDO:  I was very relaxed, hearing all of the people cheering for México, and it kind of got me going.  I eagled the 13th hole.  I think that got me going, too, and the holes coming in, I birdied the 18th hole, that kind of got me going again.   
 Tomorrow is going to be a tough day, but I think I can pull it off.   
  
  Q.  Have you ever had an experience like that in golf?   
 ESTEBAN TOLEDO:  Well, no.   
  
  Q.  It's kind of unique.   
 ESTEBAN TOLEDO:  When Tiger and I played in 2002, I believe, in Michigan, I think half of the nine holes it was for Tiger, and then when I caught up with them, they were all kind of pulling for me.  So pulling for the underdog.   
  
  Q.  This is more, "hey, this is one of our own."   
 ESTEBAN TOLEDO:  They know I've played the TOUR for so many years and they know I have the game.  They believe I can win.  I believe I can win.  That's the only reason I'm here.   
 Hearing all of the people, it's huge for me.  They want to see someone win again, and I just feel great.   
  
  Q.  For some people it would be pressure, but for you it seems to be motivation.   
 ESTEBAN TOLEDO:  I don't care if it's pressure.  Hey, I'm going to go out there and play my best, and they know that.  As long as I try my best and they know that, that's all I care.  You know, obviously I want to win, but it's just I've got to give a show to the fans, that's the most important, and if I can do that, then I can win.   
  
  Q.  Were the galleries different today than the last two days?   
 ESTEBAN TOLEDO:  The last two days, they were okay, but today they all followed me.  They all wanted to see me playing well, and I think that they got what they deserved.  Tomorrow I think more people are going to follow me.   
  
  Q.  Were they scoreboard watching when they say you were making a move?   
 ESTEBAN TOLEDO:  It happened to me once back in 2000 when John Daly was in Mexico City, and Daly was in front, and he was still huge, but I ended up winning and hopefully it happens the same tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  Outside of a major, is this the tournament for you to win?   
 ESTEBAN TOLEDO:  It would be the greatest thing that could happen for México is for me to win here.  It would be fantastic.  On the other hand, I've made 145 cuts, and I need 150 cuts.  So it could be huge tomorrow, if I can win, then there will be less pressure for me in my life.  But it's going to be an exciting day tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT