NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: FLYERS v LIGHTNING
May 10, 2004
Dave Andreychuk
Tim Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Tim, what was your view on what happened near the end of the game there with your run-in with Brashear? 
 TIM TAYLOR:  Oh, I was just trying to line him up.  He was coming across and I think he obviously saw me.  Just kind of closed on me and tried to jump on top of me.  But, you know, it was a situation where in the game, I'm just trying to get a good hit in and I missed him.  He jumped over the top of me. 
 Q.  Do you worry about a game like this having a lingering effect or is it just one game, you shake it off and move on from there? 
 DAVE ANDREYCHUK:  You know, I think it's a pretty good wake-up call for us that we are going to have to play a lot better, we are going to have to play with a lot more desperation to beat that club over there.  They are a good team that knows how to play with some desperation and they have been in this situation before. 
 Personally, I think I've said it already, I would like it get on a flight right now and go play.  I just want to forget about it and get up to Philly and play again. 
 Q.  Is there anything specific you guys didn't do today, is there anything you saw as the major mistakes? 
 DAVE ANDREYCHUK:  Well, you know, the game, we don't really want to cut the game so fine that it's about plays and what we did.  It's about winning battles.  It's about desperation. 
 The first ten minutes of that game, they came at us very hard, and they took control of the game right away.  I think that's what we have to be better at.  We have to be ready to play right off the bat.  Like I said, this is a lesson learned. 
 Q.  This doesn't happen very often with Khabibulin, so how do you expect him to react to this? 
 DAVE ANDREYCHUK:  Well, Khabibulin has been able to rebound all year long.  He's had a year where he's responded after every time that we haven't played well in front of him.  So, I don't expect anything less from him.  He's going to be right back in there.  He was very  -- he was very happy, light, after he got pulled; he was calm.  Not much was bothering him.  I like that about him.  He wasn't upset.  He's focused and it's a good sign for us. 
 Q.  On the play with Brashear, you said he jumped over you, did you not think he was going for your head? 
 TIM TAYLOR:  I don't know, I don't think so.  I think he was trying to get out of the way of a check and just happened to close on me there.  It's one of those things where I tried to line him up and he turned the other way. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT