LPGA Q-SERIES
October 30, 2019
Katherine Perry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. All right, KP, what a round out there as you adjust to No. 9. What has the past week and also the adjustment been like for you?
KATHERINE PERRY: Well, the greens are I think playing a lot different this week. They're holding a lot more so you can any them at pins. They're also tough to read. Thankful to have Kevin, my husband, on the bag, because he's really good at reading them and I'm not.
So, yeah, that's been an adjustment, just trying trust those putts where I see it completely different.
Q. So your husband is on the bag this week. What kind of led to that decision?
KATHERINE PERRY: Oh, he's always been on the bag for two years now, three years. Yeah, so it's been great.
Q. So what does that do? You're kind of in a home environment, I want to say. What does that add to this experience?
KATHERINE PERRY: It's great being in Pinehurst again. My parents are here watching. My coach has been here and that's been great.
Yeah, it's just nice to be home and know I can go home at any time if I want.
Q. What was it like gearing up for this event, gearing up for what Q-Series is, and knowing what a marathon it is to get to the finish line?
KATHERINE PERRY: Definitely. I feel like I had a lot of experience from it last year and I didn't handle it great last year, so I had a lot to learn from. That was really good I think.
So just, patient and playing one day at a time. I'm kind of trying to play it as two different tournaments instead of stressing out about the final score.
Q. You were in a number of LPGA events this year and you were close to the top numerous times. What did you learn about your play this year that helped you for this event?
KATHERINE PERRY: I guess I've gained a little bit of confidence in myself and I know I have the ability. It's just a matter handling pressure and being able to perform when it gets in the grind.
Q. Are you staying at home this week?
KATHERINE PERRY: No, it's hour and a half away, so we're staying at a friend's house about ten minutes away. It's a great spot to be.
Q. What's it like to have your support tomorrow out here following you around?
KATHERINE PERRY: Oh, it's great, because I know they love me no matter what and that's a huge help.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT