PURE SILK CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY VISIT WILLIAMSBURG
May 25, 2019
Katherine Perry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. From Monday qualifying to a bogey-free round after the third, how has this week been for you?
KATHERINE PERRY: It's been an incredible week.  I've been hitting the ball really well.  Yesterday not so much, but my coach, Robert Linville, he came into town this morning and we kind of got a setup change on the range and it was feeling great out there.
Q. What did you change from yesterday to today?
KATHERINE PERRY: Just my hand's a little higher at setup; I was a kind of getting low and hitting some squirrely shots.  It made it easy for me to turn through now and just kind of swing hard.
Q. Back when you were Monday qualifying, was what the motivation to get you through to be able to have the kind of round you had today?
KATHERINE PERRY: Yeah, I just -- I've been hitting ball really well.  I just kind of needed my break.  With the reshuffle coming up I was hoping to get into this event and do as well a possible to kind of set the year off right.
Q. Talking about the reshuffle, this is the last event before it happens.  Is that weighing on your mind going into the final round?
KATHERINE PERRY: You know, making the cut was huge for me.  I'm really just excited to see what I can do tomorrow.  I haven't been in this position before, so it's just really exciting to give to a shot and see what happens.
Q. What does a round like this do for your confidence?
KATHERINE PERRY: It gives me a lot of confidence.  Just seeing the ball come off the club face so well today and just being able to swing free out there is a great feeling.
Q. The weather is going to be up there tomorrow.  The heat is going to be brutal.  What is the mindset and the strategy to come out on top?
KATHERINE PERRY: Being from North Carolina we're used to some hot summers, just coming mentally coming out knowing it's going to be hot, drinking a lot of water, Gatorade, and just kind of staying steady the whole day.
Q. After you did qualify on Monday, was making the cut your like goal in a sense?
KATHERINE PERRY: That was definitely a big goal was making the cut.  I think I've been hitting the ball so well I wanted to keep like a top 10 mindset in my mind.
Like I said, just hitting the ball really well two days ago and then today has really helped.
Q. I believe you mentioned to me Monday you were working on something with your swing earlier in the year; is that right?
KATHERINE PERRY: Yeah, we've made some good changes over the off-season with my coach, and, yeah, it's just been going really well.
You know how golf goes, up and down, up and down, but the setup change this morning was crucial.  I think that really helped set the pace for today and feel good about it.
Because when you're standing over it and you just feeling like it's not right it's kind of hard to swing hard at it.
Q. You got your family with you?
KATHERINE PERRY: My parents are going to come tomorrow; my coach is here today, Robert Linville.  I've got some friends in town.
It's nice being close to home.  A lot people around here I think are cheering for a local-ish person, so it's kind of fun.
Q. Local-ish.  I don't know, UVA people don't like the Tar Heels though.
KATHERINE PERRY: That's fair.  I don't mind UVA though, just not Duke.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT