SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 5, 2014
Vic Schaefer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   We'll take an opening comment from Coach Schaefer and then take questions for he and the student‑athletes. 
COACH SCHAEFER:   First all, a great basketball game, hats off to Missouri.   Robin, she does a great job.   Those kids play so hard.   They're so hard to handle, so hard to defend.   Boy, you talk about kids that make shots. 
But I'm awfully proud of our kids, so proud of my team, the perseverance.   That was the word that was on the board tonight, was perseverance and resilience. 
We didn't play well Sunday.   We come off of back‑to‑back‑to‑back overtime games.   Martha played 45, 45, 44 in those overtime games.   Our kids play very hard.   We're not out standing around in a 2‑3 zone, we're full court pressing.   It's been a little bit taxing.   This time of year everybody is tired.   I think we're a little bit more tired than most because of how we play. 
To see our kids, their resilience tonight.   Missouri kept coming at you.   Every time they left somebody open, they made a shot.   It's demoralizing to be quite honest when you go through and talk about guarding them, you know what they want to do, how they want to do it.   It's real easy to lose somebody. 
That's a mental thing, quite frankly.   Our kids I know, they've been in so many close ballgames all year long.   We've won our share, lost more than our share.   To see them come out and persevere in that environment, I really am proud of them. 
That's win number 19 for this team this year, tremendous accomplishment for them.   Not Martha's best night.   Our best player, didn't get our best night from her.   We put two freshmen on the floor.   That's when we made our run from down 6 to got it tied.   The eight‑minute mark we were down 6.   We said in the huddle, We have to win the next four minutes.   Next media timeout it was tied. 
Proud of our kids, energy, effort.   We're excited about tomorrow.   That's why we came here.   Didn't pack one suit.   Didn't pack one pair of under clothes.   We came to play.   That's kind of been the approach all year with this group. 
So good win for us and we're on to the next one. 
THE MODERATOR:   Questions. 

Q.   Can you talk about Kendra's performance. 
COACH SCHAEFER:   I'd love to talk about her.   I've been waiting for about a month to talk about her. 
Kendra, she's been so good in practice, but we get her in ballgames, the lights come on, she'll get in foul trouble for whatever reason.   Just wanting her to work her way out of it.   Obviously she does so much for us offensively.   We need her.   Offensively we absolutely have to have her.   Our twos and threes have put up some bad zeroes in some games this year.   She's not been on the floor to be a part of it. 
She's hit some big shots for us throughout the course of the year, but this is Kendra Grant.   I need her.   We need her to be like this every night.   I'm waiting on it.   As I told her now, I'm glad she showed up tonight because we desperately needed her.   The way they were playing us in the first half with the point four zone.
The kid can make shots.   I'm telling you, come to a practice, there's some stretches where she doesn't miss anything she's looking at.   I need that from her.   We desperately need that. 
I need her with confidence.   She's got my confidence right now.   Hopefully she can come back tomorrow and put together another good run.   I'm happy as the dickens that she's with me. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT