NCAA MEN'S REGIONAL SEMIFINALS AND FINALS: LOUISVILLE
March 28, 2019
Francis Okoro
Kenny Wooten
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Virginia-53, Oregon-49   
 Q.  This kind of crazy run you guys had is coming to an end.  
FRANCIS OKORO: Man, it's really tough.  It's really emotional right now.  It's kind of hard.  But we'll use it as motivation.  Most of my teammates, we'll use it as motivation to come back here.  It's really fun winning.  Once you're winning, you enjoy the game more.  We want to come back.  We want to come back.  At the same time, we're going to use this as motivation.   
It's really hard right now.  We're really emotional, but we're going to pick ourselves up and those that are going to be here, we're going to get ready to go.   
 Q.  Did you believe the second half, after they eventually came up with the win, what changed in the final couple minutes?  
FRANCIS OKORO: I mean, you're going to give the other team credit.  They were hitting tough shots.  And we were hitting tough shots too, but we just came up -- towards the end, we couldn't hit the shot.  It was really bad for us.   
Coach said something about we were not playing the right way towards the end because we were just doing individual stuff.  We didn't really finish like a team.  At the same time, I love my teammates.  It felt like they had to do that, and we just came up short today.   
KENNY WOOTEN: Yeah, no one really expected us to be here.   
 Q.  Do you feel like offensively, you guys got some looks and were able to execute against their defense to stay right there with them?  
KENNY WOOTEN: I feel like we got the shots that we wanted sometimes.  They just probably weren't falling as much.  And sometimes we weren't getting the shots we wanted.  But mainly it's all about our execution, and we weren't executing as much as we wanted.  And that's ultimately how it went down.   
 Q.  Do you guys like the looks you got the last 20 minutes, pretty much clean looks?  
KENNY WOOTEN: Yeah, definitely we got good looks.  We just didn't end up executing.  And we did all the right things, just got the wrong result.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT