U.S. OPEN
August 30, 2018
Julien Benneteau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. STRUFF/J. Benneteau
6-2, 4-6, 6-1, 3-6, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. As you walked off the court, waving to the fans, what was going through your mind?
JULIEN BENNETEAU: I don't really realize I think.  Some guys told me in the locker room, say, So, now you know that you're not going to play ever, it must be a really strange feeling.
I have to say that for the moment I don't feel this way.  Maybe it's a little bit too early.  Maybe it will take some times, yes, to absorb it and to have more emotions, some more feelings.
I really don't know.  Because I was still focused on the tournament, on trying giving everything I could to win this match.  So my mindset, even yesterday when I was off, I was still little bit, yeah, focused on the tournament, telling myself, Okay, it might be the last one, but you have a match to play, you have a match to try to win.
For the moment, I am just not disappointing after a loss because it's okay.  But, yeah, I don't realize too much.
Q. Did you realize at 3-All in the fifth set there was a point that Struff won, you pulled your pants down a little bit?
JULIEN BENNETEAU: Yeah, the point was crazy.  At this moment, he missed all the easy volleys, and this one catch the line.  At this time of the match, it was, yeah, tough.  But, yeah, it was spontaneous.  Sometimes the chair umpire, they have a hard time with us.  I have to give him a big thank.  He laughed.  He understood the situation.  This is the way I think when you are on the chair you should umpire.  You are not only here to call the score but, yeah, to feel the match, the emotions.  It was a good thing to do.
For all the people in the crowd were laughing.  I think if I had a warning at this moment, maybe a lot of persons would have been booing for him.
Q. Is that the best thing about playing in tennis for so many years, outside of the competition, hearing the fans, French fans that come out?  Are you going to miss that?
JULIEN BENNETEAU: Yeah, to play some big matches like this on Grand Slam, big fights, five sets, nice atmosphere, yeah, you can feel this is different.  All the people on every courts, we are lucky, we are blessed to play in front of these people.  It's always packed.
For sure to play in these conditions, it's perfect.  We really enjoy.  I really enjoy that, to try to share some emotions with the fans, as I said, to give my best on the court.  When people see that, very often they like that.  They give you back some power or some fuel to stay in the match.  Yeah, for sure, to feel the crowd, it's something special.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT