WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 16, 2014
Julien Benneteau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 D. FERRER/J. Benneteau
  6‑3, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Congratulations on a nice run in this tournament.   Take us through.   How happy are you to get to the semis here in Cincy?  
JULIEN BENNETEAU:   Right now I'm not very happy, but, yeah, it's a good week.   It's not over.   I still have the doubles later.  
I played a lot of good matches.   When I lost last week in Toronto against Raonic, it was in the third round, and I had the feeling that I was playing very good.   
When you have this feeling, it's always nice that great results come quick.   This is what happened this week.   This is my best result ever in Masters 1000.   I have beaten top 10 guy, even top 5.   
I lost to a guy who is in top 10 since six, seven years, I don't know.   He's very strong, very solid.   
There is nothing to say.   Nothing more to say about that.   
But, yeah, it's still a very, very good week.   
   
 Q.   What do you think was the major difference between you guys today in today's match?   
JULIEN BENNETEAU:   I don't know.   When you play against him you have the will to be aggressive or to play in some spots, because you know that him, when he has the lead in the rally with his forehand, it's almost like you cannot win the point because he takes the ball early; he can play in every corner of the court; he doesn't miss.  
But today the difference is him.   When he has the ball on the racquet, on the return, he doesn't miss anything.   Never, never, never.   He's playing very deep with his return.   So right after his return he is able to be very aggressive and to make you run.   
Me, I did not return very well today.   His serve is not like 130 miles per hour, but very efficient, a lot of percentage and very good serve, and you know that after this shot he's ready also right after to play a strong ball in the other side of the court and to make you run.  
You want to avoid that, because this is his style.   Even if you want, sometimes you are not able because he's too strong.   
   
 Q.   How much confidence has this week given you going into the US Open?  
JULIEN BENNETEAU:   Well, I know that my game is in good place and I'm in good shape.   Right now it's not the feeling I have, but I know that I'm more than happy to be here in semifinal.   To win three, four matches like I did this week it's something very important.   
So now I have to stay focus on the doubles here and then take some days off and have a good week of practice to be even more ready.   
But, yeah, to stay fresh in the head and to work physically before the Grand Slam.  
So, yeah, to plan a smart program from now to the beginning of the US Open physically and tennis, including some rest, some days off, which is important.   
To do everything to be ready for the US Open.   
   
 Q.   I wanted to ask you what your favorite memory was for playing Davis Cup for France over your whole career?  
JULIEN BENNETEAU:   My favorite match?   
   
 Q.   Memory, yeah.   
JULIEN BENNETEAU:   As a player?   
   
 Q.   Yeah, correct.   
JULIEN BENNETEAU:   I would say the 2010 quarterfinals against Spain in France at home.   We won 3‑0, 5‑0, but Saturday I play the doubles.   Very important we won.   Very good crowd and nice atmosphere.  
It was a nice period.   Also it was a very nice period in my career.   Made the fourth round for the first time at Wimbledon two weeks before, and then this Davis Cup.  
I played at this moment one of my best tennis.   I played good here this year, and I was playing good at the US Open, but unfortunately I break my wrist.   I had a problem in my wrist who stop me.  
Yeah, this match was maybe the best memory.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT