ROLAND GARROS
May 31, 2018
Julien Benneteau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. DEL POTRO/J. Benneteau   
6-4, 6-3, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  You talked a lot on the court in French, but could you talk about your feeling in English a little bit.  
JULIEN BENNETEAU: As I said, it was since 18 years I played the tournament.  I played the first three years in the quallies, and then I missed only one year in 2015 because of an injury, and I played every year this beautiful tournament.   
Yeah, it's something special for me.  I tried to do my best today on Philippe Chatrier court, but Juan Martin was simply too strong in every part of the game.  And especially on clay it was very difficult for me today.   
It was a nice moment to play on this court in front of my family, my friends, and to share this moment with them.  It's important for me.  And as I said, when I was a little kid, it was a dream to play on this court.  I played more than once here.  I had very good memories on this court.  In 2006, 2014 in doubles.  So I cannot complain.   
Yeah, it's just the end for me here at Roland Garros (smiling).   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   
 Q.  Before we start talking about the fact this is your last match, can we talk about this match.  
JULIEN BENNETEAU: I tried it all, but I really had a wall.  There was just one time that I tried to break back, but it wasn't possible.  It was very hard, my returning shot wasn't getting past.  And facing such a powerful opponent, you have to really dominate the ball, and I didn't have the power, neither physically nor mentally.   
I wasn't as good as yesterday, which is quite normal with all the efforts and the tension and the fact that I'm getting older.  And that's where it shows.   
Furthermore, I felt that as the match was unfolding, he was playing stronger and faster.  His shot was stronger.  He returned more along the line.  And even though I tried to place the shot, he was already always on top of things.   
When we reached in the first set 4-All, it was okay, but then he had four first serves and therefore lined up seven points one after the other.  And he's definitely one of the top 10.  Had he not had injuries he would be among the top 4.   
So that means you have to be very precise on all fronts.  And for me it was very hard to manage to do that, and even less on clay.   
 Q.  Was it difficult not to get too emotional at the end of the match?  Did you have to hold back your tears before you left the court?  
JULIEN BENNETEAU: Not really.  I couldn't really say.  I don't realize yet.   
I really tried to play hard the first round to be able to have a match against a very good player.  And I managed that.  And I tried to prepare myself at best.  I really tried to play to win.   
But then in the end, he was really very, very nice to me, and he told me really very, very touching words, and the public was really extremely supportive.  Except for my mother who had to go back, there were a lot of close relatives that are here.  The fact that you can play in the presence of all these people on that court is something that couldn't have been better.  I couldn't have had a better dream.   
I didn't really think about the fact that it was going to be my last match.  I tried to focus on the sport and on the game, and I tried to enjoy also.  I thought, Well, it's really great to play on the central court in Roland Garros.   
 Q.  In contrast, when you realize the level you had today, comparing to the first round, and the fact that you had such a good level at the first round and today, doesn't it make you want to come back on your decision and continue to play?  
JULIEN BENNETEAU: No.  Because I have the luxury to be able to choose when I'm going to stop, and this is something that is not negligible for a sportsman.   
And I think I can be competitive my last year.  I don't want to have to start playing in the quallies, since the tour is more and more demanding.  I have a lot of points, thanks to Bercy.  I did a good Australian Open.  I can play well under some conditions, but if I want to be competitive, I can't have the same type of program as Federer, because that means you have to play a lot of tournaments and that means a lot of weeks playing tournaments, and I'm just not into that.  I want to move on to something else.   
My main objective is to remain in good physical shape and fit enough to be competitive on the court.  For instance, in the Grand Slam, manage to experience beautiful moments in the Grand Slam.   
I know it's hard for me to play five sets, but I know that this is what's going to prepare me for the two Grand Slam tournaments that are left.   
 Q.  On a completely different subject, Richard is going to play against Rafa Nadal.  The last time they played, you were present in Saint-Jean-de-Luz.  Do you remember that?  Do you have some memories of it?  
JULIEN BENNETEAU: I didn't see the match, but I was at the tournament, and the court wasn't regulation because it didn't have the right width.  That's all I remember, that it didn't follow the rules.   
 Q.  Can you tell us what Juan Martin told you at the end of the match?  
JULIEN BENNETEAU: It's a bit what he said to Marion, that he was really sorry that things would end there for me today but that I had a beautiful career and that he wished me to take advantage of life and of my family and that he was very happy for me.   
Beautiful words, really nice, just like he is.  These words are very touching.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT