BNP PARIBAS MASTERS
October 28, 2013
Julien Benneteau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 K. NISHIKORI/J. Benneteau
  6‑4, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French, please.   
   
 Q.   We felt you had no energy left, no stamina.   Usually you are quite good at the net, and today it didn't work out.   Did you really feel you were down?  
JULIEN BENNETEAU:   Well, yeah, that's the conclusion you might draw.   I don't know how to explain this, but indeed the impression is that I was trying to put it in, I was trying to be efficient, and nothing worked.   Nothing came out right.  
Yes, as you say, bad returns on break points, some mistakes here and there.   It's not really the whole tennis, but it's because I'm too late and I'm trying to do too much.   And, well, yes, I lacked stamina and I was maybe a bit tired mentally, too, because it's the end of the year.  
   
 Q.   You were saying that the final in Kuala Lumpur might have affected you more than you thought.   
JULIEN BENNETEAU:   Well, there are many things involved.   I had little physical problems.   Nothing very serious.   But I had to deal with that since the US Open before going to Kuala Lumpur, and during those weeks I was not able to do a single physical training session.  
So of course with the accumulation of singles in Kuala Lumpur and because I used up a lot of energy there and the traveling, that was tough.   So playing singles and doubles, little by little my physical fitness got worn up, and I was not able to do physical training, to run as I do as usual.  
So physically and mentally I was not as strong as before, and of course this had a consequence on my game.  
   
 Q.   So when you know you're not 100%, when you play, you're not having fun anymore?  
JULIEN BENNETEAU:   Well, when I went to play that match it was fun for me because it was the last tournament of the year, it was in France, Bercy.   It's lucky for us French players to be able to end the year here.  
But then when I started playing, I saw I was missing some shots and that I was not able to play faster or ‑‑it was strange.   It's not me.   It's not like me.   Normally I'm able to sustain the rally and go up to the net and finish it off there, but today I was not able to do that.  
And from the baseline I had no possibilities of going up.   He was always making me run all over the place.   And also, I was always late and my shots were not as aggressive as they should have been.  
I tried not to show this.   I tried to go up to the net after my return on my serve.   I was trying to do things.   
I also have to say that Nishikori is an extremely good player.   He's been at the top for the last two or three years, and on paper he's better than I am.   I can't afford any mistakes against that kind of player.  
   
 Q.   What do you intend to do in the next weeks?  
JULIEN BENNETEAU:   I'm going to rest.   I'm going to play doubles here first.   I will end this beautiful season, because there are many positive things in this season.  
So I will try to play well in doubles, and then I'll have some medical tests to see what's happening with some places where I'm hurting a little.   I'll see if I need injections or not.   I never had that kind of thing until now, but I'm 31.   
I have been on the tour for more than 10 years, so injections can help.   I will define a protocol for me to be fit for the next season.  
And also I will get some rest, go on holidays, so I want to start the next season being fresh and physically fit.   I might need some specific rehabilitation, and I know that when I can do that I play well.  
So I'll finish the season being top 35.   Last year I was 33.   I played two finals.   I won tournaments in doubles.   So there were good moments, even great moments.  
Of course I have to start again.   I just want to remain healthy.  
   
 Q.   About doubles, do you know who you're going to play with next year?  
JULIEN BENNETEAU:   I'm going to play with Roger Vasselin.   I didn't really want to tell you this, but this is my gift for the end of the year.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT