COUPE ROGERS
August 6, 2013
Julien Benneteau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. JANOWICZ/J. Benneteau
  3‑6, 6‑3, 7‑5

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French, please. 

Q.   This match had ups and downs.   You were up 4‑2 in the third set.   Did you feel you were controlling the match at that stage? 
JULIEN BENNETEAU:   Yes.   There were ups and downs.   Against him you can expect that because of his style of game.   But it's a major disappointment for me.   I was able in that third set to come back after being down Love‑2.   I was leading 4‑2, and I was in a position where I could hold the break, holding my serve, and being in a very good position to win the match. 
So the victory slipped away at the end, and it's tough. 

Q.   What happened in the end of the match?
JULIEN BENNETEAU:   I felt tense.   In the end of a match like this, it's normal.   But today I was not able to stay calm and solid when I was serving.   But it was not only when I was serving.   Because at 4‑2, I started missing shots from the baseline that I don't usually miss. 
The intention overall was good, being aggressive every time I could, but the achievement was not that good.   It's tough against him because he hits very hard and heavy balls because of his height, so I missed those few shots, which explains that I lost the match. 

Q.   But lately you had very good results in doubles.   Does that help? 
JULIEN BENNETEAU:   Yes, that gives me excellent perspective.   Last year I spent one or two days in London and I was very impressed by the whole thing, the atmosphere.   I spent some time with Richard, who was a substitute, and it was very nice. 
So if I have the opportunity of keeping that going, I certainly will not deprive myself from this.   I'll try to keep it up until the end of the year. 
That also helps me to play better, especially against big servers, although today I didn't return that well. 

Q.   We have Louis in Canada, he was your coach.   What can you tell us about him?
JULIEN BENNETEAU:   It was a fabulous experience to work with him for four years.   During those four years, I was able to improve a lot, thanks to him.   I was not the best among the players, and Louis was able to make me develop my game.   With him I was able to win the Galea Cup, and I became doubles world champion. 
I have many excellent memories of my time with him.   His general philosophy is to keep the right state of mind, and this has to do with being very generous in your efforts on the court and during the match.   He likes to say that you have to be serious without taking yourself too seriously.   He embodies totally this approach. 
He is humble, but he is a perfect professional.   So I'm not surprised that we had those very good results in France, and I'm not surprised he now has excellent results in Canada with Milos and the girls, too. 
He likes sport not only because of fair play, but also because of the philosophy of effort and hard work.   Our relationship has always been very good, and I believe it's really a pity that the French Tennis Federation has not called him back. 

Q.   And why should they do so now? 
JULIEN BENNETEAU:   I believe he's been here for six years now.   The French Tennis Federation should have realized what good results he has attained and should have used his skills.   It's all the better for you, and I believe Louis is very happy here.   But I'm saying this as a French player. 

Q.   What can you tell us about Murray's victory in Wimbledon?   How was that victory perceived among the players? 
JULIEN BENNETEAU:   Well, it's not like if we were on a tour and we would see all the players in the locker room the next day.   Wimbledon is a bit special.   I don't really know the reactions of all the other players. 

Q.   He said he got more messages after this victory than after his US Open victory or anything else he did in his career. 
JULIEN BENNETEAU:   Well, I believe what he did personally is totally exceptional.   I'm very happy for him.   He deserves that.   He did something extremely difficult.   That was an achievement. 
I think we don't really realize how tough it must have been, winning in his home country.   I think we still don't realize what he's now representing.   In the English‑speaking world of sports, tennis, among other sports, is a historical sport.   For him winning at home in Wimbledon is fantastic. 

Q.   Do you believe he can keep it going and keep the momentum going?
JULIEN BENNETEAU:   Well, of course I don't know.   But I don't know how it can feel because I never did that kind of thing. 
But I believe he must feel self‑fulfillment that might give him the strength to continue at that level for the rest of his career. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT