BNP PARIBAS MASTERS
October 30, 2012
Julien Benneteau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. TSONGA/J. Benneteau
  6‑2, 4‑6, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French, please.   
   
 Q.   That was a huge match.   Maybe on break points you were not realistic enough.   
JULIEN BENNETEAU:   Well, what I didn't do well is that I wasn't solid enough during the whole match.   Three‑quarters of the match or four‑fifths of the match were very good.   I was playing well then, but there were a few points that I gave away.  
In the third set, for example, I gave him the break.   He didn't get it.   And it's always tough when you're always down.   He is protected by his very good first serve.   
In my case it's a bit different, so these mistakes I made I shouldn't do it.   I shouldn't do it anymore.  
In the first set it start the mistake I made at 40‑15, but there were many other mistakes like that.   In the tiebreaker, you can always, once it's done, say I should have done this or that.   I made a double fault, so maybe I should have tried a first serve on his body or maybe be more aggressive.  
I think in the third set he remained very solid on his serve, which was not the case earlier in the match.  
Normally his serve is his best weapon.   He didn't do many first serves, though, and I could have won those points.   You have to take advantage of opportunities when they come or else you try to create them.  
In the third set I was not creating opportunities for myself, and I needed to remain solid all along.   So these mistakes I was talking about, I can't do them anymore.   I have to change that.  
   
 Q.   Could you explain what happened at the end of the third set at 3‑All?   What was the problem with the umpire?  
JULIEN BENNETEAU:   I think his call was‑‑ well, I'm going to be frank:   His call, the linesman call didn't bother me because I would have missed my forehand, anyway, but this type of decision, they never do it.   And if it was not Jo playing, they would never have given him the point.  
If I had played against a top 50 in the same situation, he would not give the point to the opponent.   He would say to replay the point.  
That was what disturbed me most.  
   
 Q.   Do you remember that final in Beijing?   Jo‑Wilfried Tsonga said the same thing.   It was Djokovic playing then.   He said if it hadn't been Djokovic, the umpire wouldn't have made that decision.   
JULIEN BENNETEAU:   Well, this kind of situation happens often, and in those cases, I never got the point.   If the player touches the ball and the ball stays there in the court, you replay the point normally.  
It never happened in my whole career like today.   We were both tense, and I got annoyed.   Well, that helped me to play a super game just after.  
To be honest, the linesman called it out.   It didn't bother me really.   I would have missed that forehand.   But the decision of the umpire disturbed me because he never does that kind of decision normally, normal circumstances.  
   
 Q.   What do you think of the surface or the balls?   They say it's slow.   
JULIEN BENNETEAU:   Yes, it's slow.  
   
 Q.   And the balls, too?  
JULIEN BENNETEAU:   Yes.   The balls become fluffy and big very quickly.   I would say the conditions are average slow.  
   
 Q.   So how do you assess this season for you?   I believe you were frustrated because you were injured in Monte‑Carlo because it stopped you.   And now you're on holidays after this loss.   What do you think?  
JULIEN BENNETEAU:   Well, yes, I'm disappointed, especially with my last two losses.   All my goals are not fulfilled, but other things were not scheduled and I succeeded in doing them.  
I had my best ranking.   I was playing the best tennis of my career, and then I got injured in Monte‑Carlo.   Now I'm going to finish this season being top 33 or 36, a bad ranking for the beginning of next year.  
If I had won one match last week or this match, it would have changed, but I couldn't do anything about this injury.   It just happened.   It gives me some strength because I came back strong.   
I played beautifully in Wimbledon, and I was very eager to play.   I got that medal in the Games.   I had a final on the tour.  
The last one was three weeks ago.   So it means all the year round I was playing well.  
I had beautiful moments.   Other moments were painful.   I remember that Davis Cup tie too we could have done a bit better, all of us on the team.   We could have gone further.   I hope next year we will be able to go further in Davis Cup.  
But I'm playing well.   What I need to do now is not to be injured or to be injured in other moments because I played three Masters 1000 and in my points it's 3‑0.   If I could have played in one of them I would have finished the year being top 30, and I would have said it's a beautiful year.  
So there's not much difference.   So if I hadn't lost in the third set, it would have changed, but the year was not bad.   Now what I need is some rest and go on holidays, and then after I will practice hard and try to have high expectations for myself, because this is what makes you improve.  
Of course, tennis is not my whole life, but Grand Slams, Davis Cup are a priority for us and for me.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT