MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 16, 2012
Julien Benneteau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. BENNETEAU/M. Granollers
  6‑3, 3‑6, 6‑2 

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French. 

Q.   Back on the center court after Davis Cup, did you think about it? 
JULIEN BENNETEAU:   I did a little bit.   On Saturday I came here and I saw the court from the terrace and many memories came back to me. 
I also thought about it while I was warming up for this match because I needed to get used to this court which was slightly different.   During the Davis Cup, the umpire chair was on the other side. 
I also watched Rochus and Verdasco playing.   But I didn't think about it too much. 

Q.   In the first two sets you were up a break and things became more complicated.   What happened?   Was he playing more aggressive?
JULIEN BENNETEAU:   It's always the same thing.   You don't really know whether he's playing more aggressive or whether I am not stepping into the court, allowing him to play his dropshots.   But that was the negative part of the match. 
As a whole, for a first match on clay, I believe it was a good win.   Maybe I played a more stereotype game, and also it was raining and the balls were becoming heavier.   I tried to do too much.   It was counterproductive.   So he had better control and could play his dropshots. 

Q.   But you played on this surface for the Davis Cup. 
JULIEN BENNETEAU:   Yes.   But this is really my first match on clay this season. 

Q.   But did the Davis Cup preparation help you?
JULIEN BENNETEAU:   Yes, of course.   Usually I come in here with only five days' practice on this surface.   Here I had twice as much. 

Q.   When you play that kind of match, do you want to win love‑love, as quickly as possible, or do you prefer the match to become a bit more complicated just to see how you are reacting?
JULIEN BENNETEAU:   One thing is clear:   you never are looking for a complicated match.   Now, it was not bad that this was a three‑setter against a good player.   But if I had been able to win it in straight sets, I would have done it without hesitating.   So I'm happy that I made it through this round today. 

Q.   How do you see your clay court season?   Is it going to be difficult, especially with the Olympic Games on the horizon?
JULIEN BENNETEAU:   Well, when you play on clay, you mainly are looking at the French Open and you try to set up a schedule that will get you totally fit for the French Open. 
Playing on this surface means having a lot of patience and humility, and you have to prepare very specifically for this surface and for the long rallies.   So for the beginning of the season, I scheduled many tournaments, but also doing some physical preparation, as well. 
After that, there are many things going on and I won't have time to do any of these things.   Last week I had two or three very heavy training days.   This week I did lighter work because I didn't feel as good.   But I don't consider this season to be really tough.   I only try to play as many matches as I can. 

Q.   You're supposed to be a hard court player.   However, your best results in Grand Slams have been in the French Open. 
JULIEN BENNETEAU:   Well, the balls and the surface are getting faster and faster.   Look at Mika.   He went further in the French Open draw than in Wimbledon.   Playing in the French Open is always very special with the crowd.   You can sometimes turn a match around more than anywhere else. 
It's true that my best results in a Grand Slam were at the French, but it's also because I have five or six weeks' preparation before that. 
We are not like the Ferrers or Nadals or players in South America and get a game set on clay and can play well immediately.   I have been playing on hard court since I was 12 and it takes me some more time to get used to the clay.   Hard courts are where I feel naturally at ease or comfortable. 

Q.   After winning the match, did you think, Oh, good? 
JULIEN BENNETEAU:   No, absolutely not.   I want to go to the Olympic Games, of course.   For the time being, I'm focusing on doing my job:   preparing the best I can, and the Olympics will just be the cherry on the cake, but I won't be obsessed by going there. 

Q.   What about your next opponent, Melzer?
JULIEN BENNETEAU:   He beat me once on clay, but it was in Rome, very late in the evening.   I was not feeling well there.   I beat him also several times. 
He's a very complete player.   I believe he won Wimbledon as a junior.   I know he can get excited sometimes and annoyed.   But before winning Memphis he didn't do much.   I saw him in the first rounds and I don't know how he pulled it out there.   So it's going to be 50/50. 
I just need to recuperate and do what I have to do tomorrow in order to be ready for Wednesday. 

Q.   Since last summer you've been playing a lot, but you took some time to cool off.   Are you back on track now? 
JULIEN BENNETEAU:   Yes.   I took some rest in the United States.   But since Miami I found my eagerness to play again.   I decided in Miami that I should stop doing stupid things, and with Davis Cup coming up I had to get used to playing, get ready.   The Davis Cup ties were sort of milestones in the season that helped me prepare.   But now it's going to be easier because there's going to be the French Open and Wimbledon back to back. 
I'm not going to play every week until the French Open.   The week before the French Open, for example, I will not play. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT