APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 13, 2012
Julien Benneteau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. BENNETEAU/M. Baghdatis
  6‑4, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   They should hand you the trophy already.   That was a massive last game, a 15‑minutes last game. 
JULIEN BENNETEAU:   15‑minutes the last game?   (Smiling.) 

Q.   Eight dueces and six match points.   How were feeling?
JULIEN BENNETEAU:   Eight dueces.   Ah, I'm fine.   It's only two sets.   I did not have a long match during the week, so this is a good point for me.
It's true the end of the match was a little bit epic.   I think for people who follow me in France on live scores or on TV, on the Internet, I did not have them on the phone, but I'm pretty sure they were a little bit‑‑ it was not good for the heart of my father for sure.
But at the end, it's a good feeling.   It's good to be in final here at the beginning of the year.

Q.   Have you played a game like that before?   And what does a win like that in a game like that do for your confidence?
JULIEN BENNETEAU:   Yeah, I played almost the same than before this week.   I played good matches in different conditions.   Second round it was very windy against Lopez, and then I played night session yesterday.   So conditions were totally different, but my game hopefully not. 
For me, I play good level since two weeks.   Even last week in Brisbane when I lost to Tomic in three sets it was good tennis, good level.
I hope to maintain that tomorrow. 

Q.   What happened in that last game?   Was it a little bit of nerves or just one of those things? 
JULIEN BENNETEAU:   Yes, until my first match point it was a good game.   Because even if I lost some points, I tried to do something.   I made two serve and volleys and he made two good returns. 
But it was okay.   It was the good way to play and to be aggressive.   My first match point I made a double fault.   After that, I start to think a little bit too much.   And even if I lost this point, but, you know, in another way, it could have been better for me than to make a double fault like this.   This was not good. 
After that, it was tough for me.   When I had some match points I could not make one first serve, so after that I was under pressure on my second serve and he returned well. 
But I stayed very focused on my game, very aggressive, and I saved some game points from him. 
After I could finish, so...

Q.   You haven't won a final and you haven't lost a set this week.   How are you feeling about playing Nieminen tomorrow? 
JULIEN BENNETEAU:   When I think about that, I'm confident.   Also, I think I never beat him on the tour.   Each time it was very tough matches, very tight, three sets, long matches.   He's a good player.   He has some confidence, of course, because he won a lot matches this week.   But also he can be a little bit tired. 
So finally it's always a 50/50 chance.   Now it depends on me, how I can manage to find a way to win the first title of my career. 

Q.   How much would it mean to you to finally get that first tour win? 
JULIEN BENNETEAU:   I don't want to think too much about that before the final, before the match.   But for sure we going to speak about that later with my coach tonight at the restaurant, because it's not a good thing if I keep this on me.
But for sure it's going to‑‑ it could mean a lot for me.   I'm waiting for that.   I practice every day for that.   So I have a chance today, and now we will see what happen. 

Q.   Will dinner tonight be anything special.   Will you load up on a big plate of pasta?   Red meat? 
JULIEN BENNETEAU:   Tonight?   Classic:   pasta or rice.   I don't know yet, but classic.   Maybe one beer.   That's good.   (Smiling.)   This is good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT