MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 13, 2010
Julien Benneteau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 F. VERDASCO/J. Benneteau
  6-2, 6-1 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions in French for Julien.   
  
  Q. Tough, tough, tough?   
 JULIEN BENNETEAU: Tough, tough.   
  
  Q. You had no solutions?   
 JULIEN BENNETEAU: No. Today I lacked too many things to be able to compete with top players on this surface. I lacked the specific physical conditioning you need on clay. My backhands were not efficient. The same for my serve.   
 Normally, those shots help me to create some opportunities for myself on the other surfaces, and I couldn't use that here. I made many mistakes with my backhand, which is normally my best shot. I would need more time to find the right type of game on clay, whereas it comes more naturally for other players, especially the Spaniards.   
  
  Q. Did you expect to suffer so much?  
 JULIEN BENNETEAU: Not quite. But I knew I would be the bull on the court and he would play around with me. In that situation, I would have liked to offer something better to be more efficient, to give him more problems, but I didn't succeed. He was too tough for me today.   
  
  Q. You never played such a strong player on clay?  
 JULIEN BENNETEAU: No, not on clay. I've never seen such power. On the other hand, it's no coincidence if I never went beyond the second round in Monte-Carlo. Other players have the same type of statistics. He is very much at ease on this surface. It is natural for him.   
 So playing against him so early in the clay court season means there is a great difference between him and me. He's one of the strongest players ever on clay that I've played. Although that's wrong, because there was Federer.   
 The circumstances today were that he was better than I was and there was a great gap between us, too - greater than usual.   
  
  Q. Is his ball really heavy with his forehand?  
 JULIEN BENNETEAU: Yes. He has an excellent forehand, one of the best on the tour. Everybody knows that.   
  
  Q. But in the first set you tried to play serve and volley.   
 JULIEN BENNETEAU: Yes. But I was not fresh enough to do that. Although in those circumstances, I need to shorten up the rally. But I wasn't serving well today. This is the kind of problem I often have on this surface. I should go more often up to the net, but I can't go to the net without the right preparation. I didn't find a solution yet for that.   
  
  Q. What is your schedule now?   
 JULIEN BENNETEAU: Rome, Munich and Madrid. This means I now have 10 days to work on my game. This is very important for Rome, of course, but also for preparing for the French Open with those five-setters. Having 10 days is very good for me because I need to prepare myself also physically.   
  
  Q. Where are you going to do that? In the stadium of Roland Garros?   
 JULIEN BENNETEAU: I don't know yet. But normally it would be in the stadium of Roland Garros.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT