MASTERS SERIES MONTE-CARLO
April 15, 2007
Julien Benneteau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  It was not easy to play against a player with a much lower ranking than yours; is this why you lost a set?   
 JULIEN BENNETEAU:  A bit of everything.  He always plays well here.  I was the big favorite for this match and I was a bit tense.  It was my first match on clay for this season.   
 Moreover, I stayed awhile without playing matches in competition, so I had to organize my game to find my reference point to change my tactics.  (They are different on clay.)   
 He played a solid match and I was a bit stressed.  I didn't play so good at the end of the first set and the beginning of the second.  Fortunately I reacted well in the third set.  I didn't play a great match, but I made sure I was staying in the tournament and going to the next round, which is the most important.   
  
  Q.  Is there a technical explanation for all those mistakes on your serve, or errors?   
 JULIEN BENNETEAU:  We are going to talk about it.  I'll be practicing again this evening.  We only talked about the match and not about the serve in particular.  I made many double faults, which is unusual.  I didn't play good match with my serve.  But on clay we always try to mix is up, to change the zones, and my serve was not very good.   
 The third set, though, I served well for the important points, on breakpoints.   
  
  Q.  What does Balleret need to do become Top 100?   
 JULIEN BENNETEAU:  After last year he is still top 250, and after this he's going to have problems with his ranking.  I believe he's not rigorous enough in about everything.   
 For example, at 5-All, he tried to serve a second serve at 200 kilometers, and now I believe it was a mistake.   
 He is consistent during the rallies, but sometimes he tries very strange shots.  Maybe he's overplaying it.  He has good weapons though.   
 I saw he was a rooster in Bangkok.  He passed around.  He plays well.  There's no problem about that.  But I believe he didn't take advantage of what happened to him last year to try to do better in challengers and other tournaments.   
 This being said, I didn't see him very much.  I believe you should ask the questions to the coaches.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT