ROLEX PARIS MASTERS
November 4, 2017
Julien Benneteau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. SOCK/J. Benneteau
7-5, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French, please.
Q. We felt you were running out of gas.
JULIEN BENNETEAU: Yes, I thought I would have a bit more of that.  But he hurt me from the start with certain rallies where he was controlling the point with his forehand.  That is what I wanted to avoid precisely.  That's why he's so good because I was not able to control the points myself.
He was better than I was in all the parts of the game.  Of course, I should have served a bit better and I should have moved better too.  Although, the goal against him is not to defend, but on the contrary it's to counterattack and be aggressive.  But it was too complicated.
I was not lucky either, especially in the first set.  The difference was very small between us, but in the first game I missed an easy forehand volley.  It could have changed if I had made it.  And I had a break point that I didn't convert.  I was creating opportunities, but if I had been able to be ahead in the score, it would have been a lot better and easier for me.
Q. You had many emotions this week.  We know that uses up a lot of energy.  So I'm asking maybe something stupid but did you sleep well?  Did you eat well?
JULIEN BENNETEAU: Well, yesterday I went to bed late, of course.  But, yeah, there were emotions.  But I didn't finish early either.  Well, my opponent also finished quite late.  But when you finish everything you have to do at midnight, it's tough to fall asleep immediately.
Maybe also the fact that we have 10 years difference, it might also have played a role in the end.
He had tough matches too.  But it's very difficult to stay at this intensity for a long time.
Q. How do you feel the tiredness?  Do you have heavy legs?  No breath?
JULIEN BENNETEAU: Mentally I'm not tired but it's just my legs that are difficult to move.  They are a bit stiff.  And I, for example, can't use my legs for my serve or I can't push when I'm playing my backhand.
It's like boxing.  Sometimes you're not as sharp mentally also, you don't make the right decisions.  And at 15-All, for example, I can have a forehand to play which doesn't go in.
And also his game was bothering me a lot more than the previous opponents.  His forehand is extremely heavy even on that kind of surface.
Q. Three weeks ago you were not thinking too much about the Davis Cup I guess.  But now, are you thinking about it a bit more and what is your opinion about a probable selection or not?
JULIEN BENNETEAU: We are waiting for Yannick's decision to know how many players he will take with him for the preparation.
I would have the feeling of belonging to that final if I'm called to be part of the preparation period.  After, for the actual tie, I don't know how many players he will actually take with him.
Q. You talked about it briefly, but how is he playing?
JULIEN BENNETEAU: Well, his shots have a lot of effect.  You can feel it.  Most players with their forehand play differently.  His ball is spinning.  Generally, passing shots are flat on that kind of surface.  It's easier to control.
Also with his forehand he's able to find the lines and the areas with a lot of precision.  Given his technique, we believe he's always late but it's not true.  He can be very precise.  And most of the time he's serving at 190, for example, but he puts into the ball a lot of effect, and it's difficult to control your return at 190.  And he can play the ball exactly where he wants to be aggressive after that.
Q. Could you talk about this crazy week here in Bercy?  What are you most proud of?
JULIEN BENNETEAU: What I'm most proud of is that I was able to play four matches in a row at a very high level.  The first match was extremely good.  I was able to continue to beat Jo, Goffin, and Cilic one after the other.  And it's great to have been able to do that here in Paris.  It's something extra, of course.
I had very strong emotions and I had hoped for that during the past years because they were tough.  It was in singles.  So it was for me but also I shared that with the crowd, with my family and my friends who were here too.  And this week will remain forever in my memory.  It will have an impact on my choices for next year.  It's really a bonus for me.
Q. What makes you most happy?  Just knowing in 2020 you will be able to start in a better position or that maybe you might be selected for the Davis Cup final?
JULIEN BENNETEAU: I don't know if I'm in a good position to be among the four players selected for that.  Of course, the Davis Cup final is the goal of all French players who have a chance to be selected at the end of this year.
As I said, it will all depend on the option chosen by Yannick and there are many.  The hierarchy might not be changed.  Before, before I got injured, I, of course, was part of the doubles and I could also help in singles.
Now, maybe if there is a problem with the singles, I might be a candidate.  I always played well in doubles also because I have qualities as a singles player.  So what I know can also be very useful in doubles as well as in singles.
Q. Well, you gave an answer already, I believe.  Your singles achievements can also open up a selection in doubles for you?
JULIEN BENNETEAU: I can't really give you an answer on this.  I don't know.  If you ask me if I would like to play in Lille three weeks from now, I would say, of course.  I can't say the contrary.
We'll just see what Yannick is going to choose, what group he is going to select.  If he takes only four players, it's one thing.  If he chooses to have five or six players, maybe I have a chance.  We'll see.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT