ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
February 16, 2015
Darren Sammy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







  DARREN SAMMY: Before I answer your question, I'd just like to apologise to the listeners. I think I've been handed a breach of the code of conduct for a swear word, so I'd like to apologise to the viewers for that, especially the young kids listening. Yeah, it's tough. We've not been playing the brand of cricket that allows us to win matches, and to recover from 80 to score 300, we were in for a chance, but we didn't start well. Our bowlers have been going for some sticks over the last few games and today was no different against an experienced Irish team where you know they had a game plan and they stuck to it. So we have to dust ourselves off and begin against Pakistan next.    DARREN SAMMY: Well, if we continue to play like that, we won't be here for long, for sure. So we still believe that the World Cup is just one game. You win four out of five matches or sometimes even four out of six, and then you can still get into the quarters. So, yeah, we're not going to keep our heads down, but we still believe we could make it into the top four in this group.    DARREN SAMMY: The same team? You mean the name West Indies?    DARREN SAMMY: Like I said, we've not been able to put a full game of cricket together. I think today the batting display of partnership should have been motivation enough for the bowlers to go out there and want to run into the Irish. But, look, we were lackadaisical in the field, and we just fought that here. We scored 300 and we're supposed to win. But you could see that Ireland is known to win those big matches and they've caused a few upsets in ICC events. Yeah, today we took them for granted as we fielded. So I can't really pinpoint on what exactly. We just were not putting in a good game of cricket.    DARREN SAMMY: Yeah, most definitely. When we batted it was holding up a bit. It was a bit spongy, but I guess there was not much sideways movement. But that's no excuse for the way we bowled. We seriously have to take a look at the drawing board, wherever that is, and look to improve.    DARREN SAMMY: When things are not going your way, it's always difficult to motivate yourself. But as a group, you know, you've got to keep believing and we need to find some inspiration somewhere, and we need to find it quickly. I will always try to be positive in my approach, help our young captain, Jason, and hopefully the rest of the team could follow.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT