ICC WOMEN'S WORLD T20
March 3, 2020
Sornnarin Tippoch
Shan Kader
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Thailand v. Pakistan (match abandoned by rain)
Q. Rain in the end, but do you look at today as a missed opportunity or a massive positive given the runs you put on the board?
SORNNARIN TIPPOCH: Obviously very disappointed with the result today because of the rain, but you can't really control the rain. But really happy how we controlled the innings and built that innings and made a statement of how we can play cricket.
Q. Do you think that innings is possible if not for this World Cup? Is that a showing how much you learned throughout these World Cups, to be able to do that today?
SORNNARIN TIPPOCH: I think that was a demonstration of how well we performed, but we just weren't able to quite replicate the preparation in the previous game. So it's also a collection of experiences, and I think we're adapting well.
Q. Did you give any special message to your team today; last game of the World Cup, go and leave a mark? You've left lots of marks on this tournament, lots of really good ones. But go leave a mark on the field before you fly home? You were really keen to remind everyone of the cricket you could play?
SORNNARIN TIPPOCH: It was the last game, the last game of the group, the last game of the World Cup. We just knew we had to put it all out there and try to play our best cricket. So it's also a game that we want people to remember us by, not just through press conference and saying like we didn't rock up, we didn't show up. But I think this game really put things into perspective of how well we can deal with situations and how well we prepared for the tournament.
Q. When your team next plays, will you remind them of this performance as like a template for them to take forward now, how you can play a T20 innings (indiscernible) as a key performance?
SORNNARIN TIPPOCH: Obviously we played a lot of world-class teams in this tournament. But this performance would probably be one to remember by the players themselves, giving them motivation, and also for the fans back home as well.
Q. Two years ago you played a T20 International against Pakistan and they 67/8 after 20 overs. Two years later here you are at a World Cup. You've made 150/3 with 20 overs. The progress has been immeasurable for the last 12 years. That story has been well documented. What's next? What do you have to do now to improve to an even greater level?
SORNNARIN TIPPOCH: So coming into the World Cup it put a lot of things into perspective, and how well we have -- how much more we have to prepare ourselves to compete at this level consistently. I think we've done a lot of the hard work in the past and progress is seen. So we've just got to go back and do the same thing over and over again. And also hope to reach out and play with better teams in this level of cricket.
Q. I know there's been associate spots for 2020 leagues domestically for Thai players and others around the world. Could that be another avenue that your players could perhaps find themselves getting into perhaps in the future to build again?
SORNNARIN TIPPOCH: I think if that opportunity does happen we're going to be ready for it because we think that there are a lot of players on the team that are good enough to play in that kind of league, at that kind of level. And it will be only good for us to better our cricket and the kind of cricket we play.
Q. [Question about celebration].
SORNNARIN TIPPOCH: Well, it was just all out of impulse. It wasn't planned. It wasn't instructed or it wasn't practised in the hotel before we walked up. Just purely impulse. And, like, today we felt really good and the batters were doing their bit. And it's all about playing good cricket when you're happy and supporting your friends and your teammates.
Q. Watching James at the top of the order hitting that 50, we've seen prior in the tournament that she's strong through the offside, and we saw that again. But we also saw her hitting quite a few boundaries through leg, which hasn't happened much. Have they been practicing that or has that been a focus to improve on?
SORNNARIN TIPPOCH: I think everything's been practised. But I think a lot more focus went on into her game and it's one of those days she clicked. I was talking to her right before we walked in and she said, yeah, she came for the Pakistan-South Africa game, and watched Capi (phonetic) hit a few and got a bit of inspiration from that. So, yeah.
Q. This game, the performance has been significantly improved over the previous games. I know you guys were targeting this game ahead of the tournament. Do you think perhaps that this being so much of a focus maybe lowered the focus on the other games and maybe lowered the intensity a little bit?
SORNNARIN TIPPOCH: We have the mindset of kind of winning every game anyways. We don't treat any team more special or weaker. So we aim to play positive and aggressive cricket in every game we approach.
But in today's game, I think there was a bit more riding on it for us. Just the pure fact that a lot of things were lying on this game to make a statement and prove ourselves.
Q. Looking at the innings in terms of the way you built the total, you were able to still score singles off tighter bowling which in previous games has been a problem. Was that something that you've particularly trained? Or was it just perhaps the standard might not have been quite as good as say England's bowling?
SORNNARIN TIPPOCH: I think it's probably throughout all the games it's been a collection of like experiences as well -- how we assess conditions and things like that. And we obviously practised on rotating the strike, but I think it was more evident today probably with the bowling as well. Being a bit slower that suited us or maybe the wickets that we're used to. But it's all been practised.
Q. You've made a lot of new fans in the last few weeks, lots of people have seen you on Facebook and Instagram, as you said before the tournament. What would your message be to the cricket world who welcomed you in Australia? What would you like to say to the cricket world?
SORNNARIN TIPPOCH: So we would like to thank all the fans out there that's been supporting us through the whole tournament. It's been massive. We didn't expect that there would be such a huge following, and just grateful for the fan base, for the following, for the support that everyone has given us.
Q. Where to next for Thailand?
SORNNARIN TIPPOCH: Going home, there's probably lots of things that are on the itinerary right now. Top of the list, probably go back, share the experiences. Also we've got to look into the development programmes, the under-19 programmes, share the experiences, get them ready for this type of competitions because we want to be here and I think we've made a statement that we're good enough to be here.
So it's just preparing that bottom tier to be ready for this challenge and put us in good stead for the future and also looking forward to play a lot more fixtures with world-class teams.
Q. With the tournament to be played last month what are the plans ahead of qualifiers in Sri Lanka in June?
SHAN KADER: It's a bit of a shame, that one. We're looking, we're obviously looking at (indiscernible) because that's been a central hub anyways. And also probably trying to get into Sri Lanka a bit early, assess the conditions and come back out to India. So, yeah, for now that's what has been scheduled for us for leading up to the qualifiers in Sri Lanka.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT