NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: METS v BRAVES
October 18, 1999
Kevin Millwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Kevin, how badly did you want to get in that game last night, if at all?

KEVIN MILLWOOD: I was kind of hoping we could end it after 9. I was still in the
clubhouse when we scored the run. And I went down there just in case they wanted me to
pitch. I didn't know if they wanted me to. It didn't matter to me if I pitched or not. But
the reasoning is that we're still ahead, and I've got a game to pitch tomorrow.

Q. In retrospect, do you wish you had been asked to pitch?

KEVIN MILLWOOD: I don't know. I don't think I would have had time to get warmed up, to
be honest with you. Like I said, by the time I got out to the bullpen, I think he was
already out on the mound warming up for the bottom half of the inning, and that didn't
give me a whole lot of time to get loose. 

Q. How long would you say it takes you to get loose?

KEVIN MILLWOOD: Well, my normal routine, stretching and everything, usually takes me
about 20 minutes. But I could do it a lot quicker if I had to. But it's just tough to
change those things up.

Q. Does it impress you what the Mets have been able to do? 3-0 in this type of a
situation, to just keeping coming back, coming back. Does it impress you?

KEVIN MILLWOOD: We always knew they had a good team. And it wouldn't surprise us
whatever happens. But I think the first few games, we made the big pitches and got the big
hits. And the last couple, they've made the big pitches and they've got the big hits.
We've just got to find a way to turn that back into our favor.

Q. Do you believe in any kind of carry-over effect in a playoff series, from one game
to another, especially such a game like that?

KEVIN MILLWOOD: I think if they were back-to-back, without having a day off, it would
have an effect. But I think with us having today off and being able to go home and get the
game out of our head a little bit, I don't think it will be that big of effect tomorrow. 

Q. Can you get the game out of your head? You guys have had so many struggles for a
while now, and not being able to get over the hump?

KEVIN MILLWOOD: Yeah. It's out of mine. I'm not worried about yesterday or the day
before. I'm worried about tomorrow and what I've got to do tomorrow to win the ballgame.
Knowing that I'm going up against a good pitcher, Al Leiter, it's going to be an extra
tough game for me and our team. I'm going to have to be the one to make the big pitches,
and somebody is going to have to step up.

Q. Are you going to start any differently knowing this could be the clincher of the
series?

KEVIN MILLWOOD: I'll try not to. I'm sure I'll be a little more excited than I have
been in the last couple starts, but I'm going to have to find some way to stay calm and
try not to let my emotions get the best of me, and just really try to do what I've done
all year. And if it gets close to the end of the game and we've got a chance to win, I'm
pretty sure I'll be able to pitch.

Q. What was the mood like coming back here?

KEVIN MILLWOOD: It was the same old, same old. I'm sure it would have been a little
happier if we would have won. It's just like a regular season game. If we had lost the
game on a getaway day, it's pretty much the same thing. Nobody is too down; nobody is too
up. Everybody is just kind of on an even keel. I think everybody is just preparing for
tomorrow.

Q. As far as the Braves starting rotation, Kevin, this year you've been the guy. Do you
feel like you're on par with your cohorts, Glavine, Smoltz and Maddux?

KEVIN MILLWOOD: This year, I think I've held my own pretty good. But career-wise, I'm
not even close. I've said it before; it's tough to make this rotation in the first place.
But to be able to come out and pitch alongside these guys is great. Trying to accomplish
all the things that they've accomplished up until now is pretty tough duty. I'm not trying
to be as good as they are, or even better than they are. I'm trying to be as good as I can
be. And however good that is, that's what I'll take.

Q. Where is your confidence level right now? You haven't lost in the regular season --

KEVIN MILLWOOD: Don't say it -- (laughter). My confidence is about as high as it's been
for a while. I think the last game I pitched here against New York probably gave me more
confidence than the game I pitched against Houston, for the simple fact that I didn't have
my best stuff. And I was still able to go out and keep our team in the game, and give us a
chance to win. And I think that's the big thing about pitching is being able to go out
without having your best stuff and being able to win.

Q. Let me ask you an easier question. Compare this year's postseason to last year's
postseason, when you basically didn't even warm up?

KEVIN MILLWOOD: A lot more fun for me. This is the first year I've been able to pitch
and contribute. And being able to go out and start games, and I even got to close one game
out, it means a lot more to me, however far we go, to think I had a lot more to do with
it. And everybody that comes here wants to play. I'm finally getting that chance.

Q. Your thoughts on the last postseason, you never pitched postseason?

KEVIN MILLWOOD: We had Neagle still, and that's just another horse to put in the
line-up. It's just tough enough to get in here with these three guys, and you throw Neagle
in there, and it's that much tougher. Those guys had the experience. I think everybody
expected them to start. We went with the guys that had been pitching out of the pen all
year.

Q. This is the second time you'll face them in a week. Does that change anything? How
do you think they'll approach tomorrow and try to do anything differently from the
previous game? Do you have to try to do little things differently?

KEVIN MILLWOOD: I don't know if they'll do anything different or not. I'm not going to
do anything different until they make me. And I think I've pitched pretty much the same
way all year long against these guys. Until they make me do something different I'm not
going to change.

Q. Kevin, after your last game against the Braves, the Mets were saying that you didn't
have your best stuff. Does it help your confidence knowing that you didn't have your best
stuff and you still pitched pretty well against them?

KEVIN MILLWOOD: Yeah, it's a big boost. Like I said, I probably gained more confidence
from that game than I did in the game against Houston. I think that's where I've gotten a
lot better this year from last year is that when I go out there without my best stuff, I
can still give our team a chance to win.

Q. Is there any extra pressure going into tomorrow to get it over with and not let them
get to the 7th game, and essentially, a one-game playoff, just finish them off tomorrow?

KEVIN MILLWOOD: Well, I don't know. We're definitely going to try to end it tomorrow.
We want to end it tomorrow. We definitely don't want it to go to a 7th game. But I think
on the other hand, if we do, we still like our chances.

Q. Kevin, right now, it's looking like 8,000 or 9,000 seats still available for the
game, which seems to have been a pretty consistent thing throughout the postseason. From
your point of view, how does that make you feel, seeing the empty seats, knowing it's not
a full house?

KEVIN MILLWOOD: I don't care, to be honest with you. The only person I'm going to be
looking at is the catcher and the hitter when they come up there. I think the last game I
pitched here it wasn't sold out. And the fans that we did have here were great; made it a
lot of fun. They got loud for us, and that's all you can ask. If people don't want to come
to the game, they won't come. That's their prerogative. It isn't a big deal to me.

Q. Kevin, did any of the guys who pitched in last night's game, maybe on the plane or
something, talk about the condition of the mound and whether that was a factor in the last
inning? Bobby alluded to it several times during the postgame interview, any talk about
it?

KEVIN MILLWOOD: No, not really. I'd heard a little bit about it; that obviously it was
getting slippery and they had to keep putting whatever they were putting on there. Nobody
made a big deal out of it or said it was a big factor in how they pitched.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT