NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: METS v BRAVES
October 12, 1999
Kevin Millwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Bobby was saying that you're an even better pitcher than you were last year, when
you were a very good pitcher. I'm curious from your perspective, what do you feel is
different from you as a pitcher now than a year or two ago?

KEVIN MILLWOOD: I think the biggest thing for me this year has been consistency. I
haven't mixed in those bad starts in between two or three good ones, and that's probably
been the biggest thing for me. I've learned how to pitch a lot more, just by sitting back
and watching the other guys do it, and talking to them and trying to learn everything I
can.

Q. Kevin, for the baseball fans, the general baseball fan outside of Atlanta, the
Braves have always been Maddux, Smoltz and Glavine. Have you used that as a motivation or
has it ever bothered you?

KEVIN MILLWOOD: It doesn't bother me at all. It's just an honor to be on the staff in
the first place, just to be a part of it. It could be used as motivation. I've probably
done that a few times, but I don't get bothered by it a whole lot. It's tough to break
into the Smoltz, Glavine and Maddux game, I guess. These guys have done so much and for so
long, and they'll probably continue to do it for a few more years. And until I do half the
things that they have, I tip my hat to them. I can't expect to be included with those guys
too much.

Q. How does it feel to be included now, for people that know, especially this season?

KEVIN MILLWOOD: Feels good. It's always fun to hear people say those three guys, and
add my name to it. It still happens where they don't, and I understand that, too. But it's
a good feeling to be included with those guys at any time.

Q. There are people out there who sometimes say that you've been the most effective
pitcher on this starting staff this year. Do you agree with that and how does it make you
feel when people are saying that, comparing you to those three players?

KEVIN MILLWOOD: To an extent, I guess, for the whole season, I guess I would be the
most consistent right now. Yeah, that makes me feel good when people say that. It's nice
to be noticed. I'm not one to go out and beg for a lot of press or help people write good
things about me. But it's always nice when people say those things about you, when you're
on a staff like this one.

Q. Kevin, the little journey into the bullpen last week with you and Maddux, does that
say something about the team's greater sense of teamsmanship and unselfishness?

KEVIN MILLWOOD: Yeah, it does. Everybody here wants to win. And if we think that like
going down to the bullpen, if it gives somebody confidence or it's going to help the
ballclub, then that's what we're going to do.

Q. How effective did you feel compared to here, two days before that?

KEVIN MILLWOOD: Well, the day I pitched here, I was pretty good that day. (Laughter).
And it's just tough to compare because I was out there and I was pitching one inning and
that's it. I was going out there and giving every bit of effort I had for that one inning,
trying to get three guys out before they scored two runs. And I was effective at it, but I
don't think I'd want to do it for a whole season.

Q. You said you were pitching fairly well that day here. Talk about what's going
through your mind that Game 2 start against Houston?

KEVIN MILLWOOD: Before the game I was just trying to go over their hitters in my mind
and try to figure out how I was going to get them out or how I had gotten them out in the
past. And once the game started and I knew where all my pitches were and how good or bad
they were, it started going so well there for a while, I didn't think about a whole lot. I
just knew what I wanted to throw and I threw it.

Q. Have you ever felt that good before?

KEVIN MILLWOOD: No, I don't think so. It was one of those days you don't come across
too often.

Q. Is all this sinking in with you yet? You've come from, I think, a fairly small town,
North Carolina boy, and now you're on this big stage that you've never been in before as
the perceived ace of a staff that's as renowned as this one. Is it imposing or are you
adjusting?

KEVIN MILLWOOD: I don't know if it's sunk in yet. But like I said before, it's an honor
to be on this staff in the first place. And I think a lot of people have said or
considered me to be the so-called ace this year or whatever, but I don't see it that way.
I'm just 1 of 4 pitchers or 1 of 11 pitchers this year that have went out and done the
job. And that's what it is. We don't really have an ace on this staff, I don't think, even
the last few years. We've had three or four guys that would be considered an ace on just
about any other staff. And we're lucky enough to have them all on this team.

Q. Who on the Mets gives you the most trouble and why?

KEVIN MILLWOOD: I think for me Olerud is probably the toughest guy. He just kind of
sits back there with a little short swing, and he can hit a line drive anywhere. He can
hit a home run anywhere. You try to keep him off balance. But it seems every swing he
takes, he's got good balance and he's hitting the ball hard somewhere, and you want to try
to stay away from a guy like that in crucial situations.

Q. You've given yourself a tough act to follow, after your first game. How are you
approaching this one?

KEVIN MILLWOOD: The same way. I'm not going to try to change anything. I've pitched
against these guys a couple of times this year, and I've had some pretty good success and
I'm going to do what I've done in those other two games. Until they make me change, I'm
going to stick with my same gameplan.

Q. Kenny Rogers has struggled in the postseason, and he probably has to pitch to try to
redeem himself a little bit. Is there pressure for you, having pitched so well last week,
to try to live up to what you've done so far in the postseason?

KEVIN MILLWOOD: I can't possibly go out and try to throw a one-hitter again, that's
kind of insane. I'm going to go out and pitch the same game I've pitched all year and try
to win. And if I give up ten hits and we win, that's still a good start. This time of the
year, I don't think it's how effective you are; it's whether you win or lose. And that's
pretty much the bottom line, then.

Q. You said before the first game that you were kind of nervous, and that's why you
slept well. Are you feeling kind of nervous today or less relaxed?

KEVIN MILLWOOD: No, not really. I'm all right today. I'm sure as the game goes along
and it gets closer to that time for me to go out there, I'll probably get a little
nervous, but you guys will never know (Laughter).

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT