NL DIVISION SERIES: ASTROS v BRAVES
October 6, 1999
Bobby Cox
Kevin Millwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Kevin, was that your best performance?

KEVIN MILLWOOD: Yeah, it has just got to be the best. I think after this one - the
other one-hitter in my career last year, but to do it in a playoff game, I think we needed
a big win today. It was probably the biggest game I have pitched in and so I would have to
say it is my best performance ever.

Q. Kevin, was there anything today that made you feel this game was going to be special
for you?

KEVIN MILLWOOD: I think about the second or third inning I threw a few sliders and a
couple of curve balls in there and they were both pretty good and had good control of
them, had a good break on them. From then on I knew if I threw the right pitch and kept
them guessing a little bit, it was going to be a pretty good ballgame.

Q. Kevin, you had outstanding control today. Did Caminiti hit a good or bad pitch?

KEVIN MILLWOOD: A good pitch for me or him? (laughs) It was a mistake. I was trying to
go away and I threw it right over the middle of the plate. A good hitter like he is is
going to hit it. He is going to hit it hard and that is what he did. But you know, it is
probably one of the few mistakes I made all day, but when you can come out from a ballgame
and say you only made one or two mistakes, you usually are going to have a pretty good
game.

Q. Kevin, how different did things feel for you today in your first post-season
appearance?

KEVIN MILLWOOD: I think the big -- I don't get real excited. I am pretty low-key. I
don't get too up or too down over anything. I think about the 8th inning I started getting
real excited out there. I had to calm myself down. Had to walk around a little bit and
kind of turn it down a notch. I got the first out of the 8th, I was pretty pumped up. I
started throwing a few balls off. I had to back off a little and calm myself down. That
was probably -- the biggest difference was excitement for me and I had a lot of energy
running.

Q. Bobby, would you rate Kevin's performance as far as what you have seen in
post-season all these years?

BOBBY COX: It is tough because we have played so many post-season games and I'd rate it
right there with Glavin's 6th game against Cleveland, probably the one-hitter or
two-hitter, whatever it was, shutout, right in that category, I think. Kevin was really
good. He has been good all season long and he was really good today.

Q. Kevin, your first post-season game, any trouble sleeping last night?

KEVIN MILLWOOD: Not at all. Man, I slept pretty good last night. I was pretty glad to
-- I thought during the day yesterday -- I thought it was going to be kind of tough to get
to sleep and I think some of that nervous energy I worked up during the day kind of wore
me out, I slept good.

Q. Kevin, what is it like in spite of your monster season being the low-profiled guy in
the rotation?

KEVIN MILLWOOD: Who wouldn't be in this rotation? You know? You got guys that won seven
Cy Youngs, I mean it is kind of tough to be a high-profiled guy around them.

Q. Bobby, Jose Lima said you asked the umpires to check his pants?

BOBBY COX: I didn't see it initially, our players saw it and Pat, they were yelling
"pine tar all over his pants," it looked like pine tar. I don't know what else
it could have been, but -- so I told Ned, our third base coach, when he went out because
everybody was, you know, saw it in the dug out to ask him to check it. Vida Blue used to
do that too. I have no clue. Bruce (umpire) said it wasn't. I never saw him go to it. Last
time he pitched against us he didn't have it on there.

Q. For none pitchers, Bobby, what advantage would that be if it were pine tar?

BOBBY COX: It would be nice to be able to dip your hands in some water or sticky stuff
any time you wanted to for slippery fast balls or breaking balls. This time of year, it
wasn't today because it was moderate temperature, but the colder it gets the more you lose
the feeling because it gets very slick. It is an advantage if you can have your hands a
little sticky, tacky to grip the ball. But it wasn't a big issue, believe me. Whatever
Bruce said that is what we were going to go with.

Q. Kevin, you said it was difficult to be high profile in this, but you never seemed
intimidated, was that the case?

KEVIN MILLWOOD: Yeah, I don't think I was ever intimidated. I think the biggest reason
is because nobody ever made me feel intimidated. I came in here and I came up from Triple
A in 1997 and I come in here and these guys are great. They just start helping you out
right away. You can go out and talk to them about pitching or whatever you want to talk
about, and they are going to try to help you. They want to have the best team they can and
they want to try to make people better. Any time you can go up and talk to a guy and kind
of relate to him, I don't see how you can be intimidated.

Q. Kevin, since you came up through the system, what is it the Braves do that make them
so successful at developing pitching?

KEVIN MILLWOOD: They got great coaches. That is the bottom line. Everywhere you go in
the Minor Leagues you got a good pitching coach, and there are guys that have pitched in
the Big Leagues, and who better to learn from then a guy that has been there. That is what
you are learning from everyday.

Q. Bobby, what was the earliest point in which you could envision Kevin putting up that
kind of performance?

BOBBY COX: I think really after about the first four, five starts this year Kevin
really got on a roll where he was just dominating every ballgame. I don't know how many
games Kevin went into this year with no-hitters in the fourth inning, the fifth inning,
the 6th, it was almost a routine deal that you'd look up on the scoreboard and the other
team didn't have any hits in the 5th. Good indication how he was throwing. He is really --
17 games was a lot last year, but kind of like Tommy Glavine, Kevin could have won
probably in the 20s this year pretty easily with a certain amount of runs. Tommy two years
ago won 14, I think, and seemed like to me should have won 30. Kevin really is a
dominating pitcher. One of the dominating guys in the League right now.

Q. Bobby, baring freak weather any chance Kevin would pitch in this series?

BOBBY COX: He would be ready to go. You bet. Especially in Games 4 and 5.

Q. Bobby, would you talk about the way Andruw came out of the slump today?

BOBBY COX: Those first two at-bats weren't bad, they were horrible. I went over to
Andruw when he came off the field after I said, "Look, you are going to get two more
at-bats today. Get your head up. You are going to get two basehits. Let's go."
Because I never see Andruw down. He was a little down after that inning and you know, they
were not good at-bats. He swung at balls the first pitch that were way out of the strike
zone, both of them breaking balls. He is a lot more disciplined than that. He came through
and I was never so happy to see him and Boone, Klesko and Jordan, do some damage today all
four of them hit the ball good.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT