NL DIVISION SERIES: ASTROS v BRAVES
October 5, 1999
Kevin Millwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Kevin, you just heard what Larry said about you. Was there anything that he
described about your style that was not correct?
 
 KEVIN MILLWOOD: No, not really. I've tried to go out and tried to get ahead of guys and
work from there. I think when you go 0-1 on a batter it makes your job a whole lot easier.
The things he was saying were correct. I don't have a Randy Johnson fastball or Randy
Johnson slider or anything. I just go out with what I've got and try to keep it out of the
middle of the plate and get guys out.  
 
Q. Can you describe your emotion today?
 
 KEVIN MILLWOOD: I don't know, it's kind of same old, same old today. I'm sure I'll be a
little bit pumped up once the game gets started. But I think tomorrow will be a little bit
different. Today is just another day, and, you know, I'll just be kind of cheering the
team on and hoping things go well.  
 
Q. When you came here your first season, did you find that in the clubhouse there was
an expectation or a culture of winning from the whole team?
 
 KEVIN MILLWOOD: Yeah, I think so. You know, when I first came here, you know, it was in
'97, I think July of '97. And you walk in the clubhouse and you get kind of a feeling of
confidence right when you walk in. I mean, everybody here -- everybody here expects to win
and everybody here feels like they can win every ballgame. I think you feed off that a
little bit. I think just being on this team gives me a little confidence with everybody
around me. Everybody knows that we have what it takes to win and everybody feels like they
can win and the team can win. I think it helps everybody that comes here. You know, I
think that other teams that come in here know that we feel that way.  
 
Q. This year with all the injuries that plagued the team, was there ever a time when
one particular player went down and you thought there's no way this team was going to make
it to the playoffs?
 
 KEVIN MILLWOOD: Well, I think when Javy went down was probably the biggest injury we
had after all the ones we had at the beginning of the season. I think there were a few
doubts flying around in everybody's head. I think we pulled together, and, you know once
we had a few games without him and we went about our thing and went about our way and did
what we had to do and saw that we could still win ball games and we could still be good
teams, I think that gave everybody some confidence and you know, it showed everybody in
the clubhouse that, you know, we have a lot of injuries and not all of our studs are here.
But we can still win and we can still beat the good ballclubs.  
 
Q. If you had a vote, what would your Cy Young ballot look like?
 
 KEVIN MILLWOOD: That's not fair. (Laughter). I don't know, I think a lot of guys in the
National League have had great years. Obviously, Randy Johnson would be on it. Mike
Hampton would be on it. Jose Lima would be on it. I think I'd throw myself on there for
kicks. I think if I had to vote, you know today, you know, not being selfish, I think I
would have to vote for Mike Hampton. He's done it all year. He did it in the big games in
the season when they needed it, and I think he deserves it more than anybody.  
 
Q. You wanted to improve your pitching this year -- how much of your pitching this year
was getting to this point or trying to get to this point?
 
 KEVIN MILLWOOD: I think the biggest thing for me was coming out and first of all,
having a good year, and -- I mean, last year, I had a good year, win total, but I thought
my ERA could have been a lot better. I wanted to get my ERA down this year. I knew if I
did that, the wins would come. I wasn't really worried about it. My goal coming into this
year was every game that I pitched, to give us a chance to win. And if I did that, the
wins would come. I think my ERA would go down, everything would fall into place. I think
one of the biggest things this year for me also was getting a chance to pitch in the
postseason. That's everybody's goal. Everybody wants to play in the postseason, get a
chance to play in the postseason and when you get there, have a chance to contribute. And
I've got that chance now. Being on the staff that I'm on, guys have won, you know,
numerous amounts of Cy Youngs, it makes you feel good just to be thought of to pitch a
game here.  
 
Q. The injuries this year, Glavine, Smoltz, do you think you have been the Braves most
consistent pitcher this year? 
 
 KEVIN MILLWOOD: To an extent, yeah, I think so. But, I think at the beginning of the
year you saw Maddux and Glavine struggling a little bit. Smoltzy was hurt. You can't -- I
mean, if you ever thought that these guys wouldn't snap out of it, you're crazy. I knew
that if these guys were having a little bit of a problem, if I could step my game up a
little bit and pitch a little better and maybe get a few wins here and there where we
really needed them, knew these guys would be back. I knew they would come back and pitch
the way they always have, and that's what happened. I had a stretch there where I was
pitching really well and these guys weren't the typical Greg Maddux, Tom Glavine, but I
still think they were pitching a lot better than other guys in baseball. But I think they
have got a lot of pressure to come out every year and have a 1.07 ERA or win 20 games
every year. I guess that seems -- that's kinds of unfair, but I guess they did it to
themselves. (Laughing.)  
 
Q. How did it feel to be in that rotation and now in the postseason, getting a chance
to start and not getting a chance to start before?
 
 KEVIN MILLWOOD: You know, last year was the first year that I was a starter, you know,
and that's it. I think I came out of the bullpen twice last year. I had a good year and we
went to the postseason. I think you know, being on the roster was a lot of fun and you
know, it gave me a lot of confidence. And once we got there, I didn't get to pitch, but,
you know, I think there were a lot of guys that there were situational pitchers, and we
used them that way all year and that's the situations that came up in the playoffs and
that's where they use them. Obviously, I would have liked to have pitched in a couple of
those games, but my name wasn't called. I think it would have been real easy for me --
after the season was over, to go home and whine or complain about not getting to pitch or,
you know, just be all mad about it. But I didn't do that. I thought: A, it just wasn't my
time, and I'd comeback this year and do what I've got to do and try to get a chance this
year. Managing in the postseason isn't easy. Managing during the regular season isn't
easy, and they have got to make a lot of decisions and they are not going to maybe
everybody happy. You know, sometimes they are not going to make anybody happy. It's just
-- he made his decisions, I respect that, and, you know, I came back this year and had a
good year and now I'm getting that chance I've always wanted.  
 
Q. Could you talk about the power of the bullpen and how that has made you a better
pitcher? You must feel confident when you turn the ball over that you still going to
maintain the win?
 
 KEVIN MILLWOOD: I think our bullpen is probably one of the most underrated things in
baseball right now. I think in the past it has been the so-called "Achilles
heel" of this team. We've got some good guys down there that know how to pitch, and
they know what they have got to do when they come in in other oath roles and they are
happy with their roles. It gives me confidence to know that I can go out and throw as hard
as I can for as long as I can, and when I decide that, you know, Bobby decides that I'm
tired or I need to come out of the game, we need to pinch-hit to maybe score a couple
runs, if I've got a lead, I feel pretty confident that we're going to hold onto that lead.
If it's a tie ballgame or I leave with runners on base, I'm pretty confident that they are
going to stay on base and not score. I think having a good bullpen behind me helps a lot
to go out and try to not go too hard too early. I think sometimes if you don't have a
strong bullpen, you try to -- you try to take it easy early on so you can try to go as
long as you can. But I feel like I can go out there from Pitch One and go as hard as I can
and when I'm tired, turn it over to the bullpen and still have a lot of confidence that
we're going to win the game.  
 
Q. Have Glavine, Maddux or Smoltz given you advice or how to deal with your first
postseason start?
 
 KEVIN MILLWOOD: I talked to Smoltzy the other day on the way to the ballpark. I think
only difference between right now and the regular season is that I think you've got to
pick one guy off the team, you know, two on some teams, maybe, that you're not going to
let them beat you. Obviously, this team has a lot of guys that can very easily with one
swing beat you in a game, but you've just got to make your good pitches. And I think in
the regular season, you know, you're behind in the count. You might just pump a fastball
in there to get a strike, and now you've got to be a little bit more selective. I don't
think I'm going to change a whole lot of what I've done in the regular season, but I'm
hoping I don't have to change anything. But maybe there will be a situation where I've got
to do something a little different from what I've been doing and if I do, so be it. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT