CHAMP CAR WORLD SERIES: GRAND PRIX OF HOUSTON
May 12, 2006
Mario Dominguez
Bruno Junqueira
Paul Tracy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
 MARIO DOMINGUEZ:  Thank you.    
  
  
  
  
  
  
 PAUL TRACY:  I think it went great for Forsythe Racing.  Obviously, Mario has been very quick all weekend.  He's been historically very quick on this style of track, very bumpy tracks like Denver, Miami, where he's been successful.  He's been going really quick.    
 I've been just trying to figure out what is making the car so quick for him and maybe not so much for me.  We made a lot of changes throughout the day today, made some more big changes right before qualifying after the warm-up.  The red tires, really the first go around on them, I was really maybe a little bit tentative on them.  Probably could have got more on the first set of tires.  The second set, I knew what I had to work with and was able to cut a pretty fast lap, but not close enough to Mario.  I think it was a couple 10ths behind him.    
 We're satisfied.  Obviously, it's changed the balance of how things look from yesterday.  Looked like it was going to be a walk-away with Newman/Haas.  Obviously, we've worked very hard, it's a different day today.    
  
 PAUL TRACY:  There's nobody in front of Mario to hit this weekend.  I'm lined up squarely behind him.  Payback, brother (laughter).    
 It's going to be a hard first corner.  It's difficult to get through the first corner by yourself cleanly.  It's definitely going to be an interesting driver's meeting.  There's going to have to be a lot of caution taken to get through the first corner here, then go racing.  This is a tough, physical track.  It's going to be dark.  It's hard to do five laps in a row without beating yourself up and beating up the car.  We have 115 laps tomorrow night.  It's really going to be a test for the equipment and the drivers.    
  
  
 BRUNO JUNQUEIRA:  Was good.  The first set of tires, the soft tires, I did okay lap, 8.9.  At that time I was on the pole.  Then the next lap was really, really good.  Not good as Mario's standard, but maybe 8.5, 8.4.  I brushed the wall out of turn five.  I think everything looks good on the car.  I went out, the car still not feel that good on the other set.  I realize that I never could match 8.0.  I had a front row guaranteed, so I stopped.    
 I think Mario did a very good job today.  For sure I'll have to look, because it looks like the Forsythe team step up today and the Newman/Haas team need to improve for the race tomorrow.    
  
 BRUNO JUNQUEIRA:  I mean, I had a front row guarantee.  I could take a gamble when there was not many cars on the track.  Especially on my first run, I didn't get much traffic.  It was a clear run, apart of my brush the wall.  But the second run, I got traffic all the way till the end.  The car wasn't that good, so I pit earlier.    
 I think today the drivers learn a little bit more the track.  I think was just one red flag.  I think everybody could have clear runs.    
  
  
  
 MARIO DOMINGUEZ:  It feels great.  I think Forsythe has done a very good job over the winter.  Over this weekend, we've worked very well together.  I think the whole team deserves this pole, and so do I.  I've been waiting for this for many years.  I'm very happy, very excited about the pole position.    
 You know, like I said, just very proud to be racing for Forsythe.  I'd like to thank everybody on the team.  Paul has been great to me.  He's been a big help over the last year and this year.  I think we are a good team together.    
  
 MARIO DOMINGUEZ:  It was very, very nerve-wracking.  We decided to go out at the beginning, get the lap done.  We knew the car was fast, get the job done, that was it.  Yesterday was red flags.  You don't know what's going to happen.  We just said, let's just go out, put in a good lap and see what happens.  The cars kept running, going by, going faster.  I told Michael, my engineer, no matter what happens, great job, the car is fantastic, I'm just very happy.  Even if we finished 10th, good job.    
  
 MARIO DOMINGUEZ:  The Bridgestones were great.  The fact they can actually get some grip out of this very slippery and very bumpy concrete surface just shows how good the technology on the Bridgestone tires is.  I'm very, very pleased with the tires.    
  
 MARIO DOMINGUEZ:  Thank you.    
  
  Q.  Are you happy to hear they shortened the race, given how bumpy the track is?    
 MARIO DOMINGUEZ:  Yeah, I am happy.    
 PAUL TRACY:  I think for sure it's going to be a lot easier on the cars.  For our team, to get our car down to weight, to give an example, we run normally wood skid plates, which are very light.  Can't run them here because the car hits the ground so hard.  We go through the wood skid plates in like five laps.  We've had to qualify this weekend with aluminum skid plates which we normally don't run, because they're more durable and last longer, but it adds a lot of weight to the car.  It's not helping us, but that's the difference between blowing right through the bottom of the car and not.    
  Q.  (No microphone.)    
 MARIO DOMINGUEZ:  I think it's a very good start.  I think it's great, the fact that we got our first pole.  Hopefully we can turn that into a win tomorrow.  We're going to try our best.  If we can do that one race before Monterrey, it's going to create a lot of excitement and enthusiasm from the people.  I'll be very happy about that.    
 It's been a while since I won Miami.  I'm just going to try my best, do my best effort.  I think we can do it.  We're just going to have to work very hard.  We'll see what happens.    
  Q. How can you have a good start tomorrow and make sure you get through the first turn together?  Any lessons from Long Beach or any thoughts on that?    
 MARIO DOMINGUEZ:  Maybe they can wait 200 yards behind me and everybody will be fine (laughter).    
 BRUNO JUNQUEIRA:  For me this weekend, my goal is to finish the race.  To finish the race, I have to do turn one in the first lap.  But for sure always very competitive.  I'm starting second, so I don't want to give up my position.  For sure, need to be smart because three of us who are fast, who have fast cars, so is a long race, the car is going to brake, a lot of pit stops, a lot of yellow flags.  It is a matter to be patient on first lap because is going to be a long race.  That's what I going to try to do.    
 PAUL TRACY:  I think it's always difficult, especially at a street track.  They've made it very, very difficult here with the corners.  They've made it even harder to get through the first corner cleanly.    
 You know, really the tough spot to be, if you're in the first row, second row, usually you're okay.  The trouble spot really is fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, because those guys are usually unhappy, haven't highly qualified, want to make some positions on the start.  Guys that start further back are always more aggressive, they're trying to make positions.  The guys that are in front are trying to defend those positions.  That's where everybody gets tripped up.    
 It will be an interesting start.  But I think you're more in the danger zone really when you're in the third row to like the sixth row.    
  Q.  You want to be first.  If you come out of the first turn third...    
 PAUL TRACY:  My plan is to get to the first corner.  We need to finish the race.  Getting through the first corner is going to be important, but getting to the end of this race I think is going to be tough as well just with the track and the bumps.  It's very easy to make a mistake here and go in the runoff or hit the wall because of the bumps.  The attrition I think is going to be a factor here.    
 BRUNO JUNQUEIRA:  I think it's going to be a really hard start.  I think turn one is really slow, maybe the slowest turn one of the championship.  It's going to be the hardest braking.  It's very narrow.  Just can fit one car.  Plus the wall goes like this, so we're going to make it even tighter.  And it's going to be at night (laughter).    
 I think if everybody put their head down and just wait a little bit, you can get through it.    
  Q.  (Question regarding Mario's engineer Michael.)   
 MARIO DOMINGUEZ:  It's working out very good.  Michael was with me in Herdez in 2004.  Forsythe brought him back.  We did very well in 2004.  I thought with what we had, we did quite well.  Considering the fact that Forsythe is a much more complete team, we have a lot more things to work on, has a lot more resources, more technology, more experience.  To have brought him back, it's very good for me.    
 We communicate very well together.  He had been with the team for many years before.  He's got a good relationship with everybody there also.  I think it's been very good ever since he came back.  The atmosphere, it's quite good around the team.  They all knew him.  They all liked him.  So do I.  I think it's a good combination.    
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 PAUL TRACY:  I thought my engineer, when we did a 58.9 or 59.0, I thought that was a pretty good lap at the time.  I was sitting in the pits, and my engineer told me Mario did a 58.0.  I thought, wow, I'm not going to do that.  I just went out and attacked the course, was able to keep it between the walls, was able to do a 58.3.  You know, you really have to attack, but it's a balancing act.  If you push too hard, then you end up sliding or hitting something.  It's very easy.    
 It's just one of those tracks, if you get around the track, you're able to attack the whole way around, not make a mistake, then you get a good lap time.    
 MARIO DOMINGUEZ:  Like Paul says, you really have to attack the track, just try to get the most amount of speed out of every inch of this racetrack to be fast.  That's what I did.  I just went out, drove it pretty much inch by inch.  I didn't do not even corner by corner.  Just try to get the most speed every time I brake.  Every time I turn, carry the most amount of speed, put the power down as (indiscernible) as possible, and all that without hitting the wall, it's quite a challenge.    
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 MARIO DOMINGUEZ:  I guess it's all a matter of driving styles.  But I like the way my car is.  I think my car should be pretty good.  I think it's consistent.  The way it was, I wasn't destroying the tires all that bad as I was yesterday.  This was a better qualifying.  I think it should be good for the race.    
  
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT