CHAMP CAR WORLD SERIES: GRAN PREMIO DE MEXICO
November 4, 2005
A. J. Allmendinger
Mario Dominguez
Paul Tracy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MARIO DOMINGUEZ: (In Spanish)

MARIO DOMINGUEZ: (In Spanish)

PAUL TRACY: Not what we wanted. We have been struggling with grip a little bit, fighting the car. We made some changes through qualifying that made it better. First set of tires was good. We were quickest, but we needed to improve quite a bit. My second run, I had da Matta come out the pits in front of me. He was on it. I really had to trail him around on my quick lap. Probably cost me a little bit of time with the aerodynamic turbulence and backed off of him at the end of the lap to start another lap and it went red. So we need a little bit better luck and should be better tomorrow.

PAUL TRACY: Obviously their cars were fast on this type of surface. Portland where it's fast sweeping type corners and having an option with the red tires, RuSPORT has been really quick on those type of tracks. We've got to step it up a little bit tomorrow and I think we can be there. We just didn't get the best out of the tires.

A.J. ALLMENDINGER: Yeah, I wasn't -- really didn't know what to do with the tires, either go with the black or the red and I was going to stick with the black tires, but once I saw Mario go out there on the red and he put up a lap, that was quicker than myself on the blacks and I was really worried about Paul since he was just a touch quicker than me with the black tires, and once I saw him go on the red, I knew I had to switch to have any chance at all. The car was amazing on the red tires. I think I could have been quicker on the second lap, once we got after that, the car was just smooth as can be. I think we need to work on the black tires a little bit, get the car a little bit more stable and quicker for the race. But overall, I am pleased. 

A.J. ALLMENDINGER: Last year when Newman/Haas was so fast they picked up a lot of time from the first day to the second day. It seems like every year it changes. I know in '03 the second day was slower, so you never know, but I think if we just, as a team, keep focusing on the car and keep improving it, we'll be quicker tomorrow. 


Q. A.J., you got to the track a little late today, is that something you are going to stick with since it worked so well today? (Laughs)

A.J. ALLMENDINGER: I might have to do that, I might have to keep sleeping in. I need my beauty rest obviously. I am not the most best looking guy so the more sleep I can get, beauty sleep, it only helps everybody at the track that looks at me. We will try it again tomorrow.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT