MLB WORLD SERIES: ROCKIES v RED SOX
October 27, 2007
Daisuke Matsuzaka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Were you always a great hitter?   
 DAISUKE MATSUZAKA:  I can't quite say that.  I'm a confident hitter, but I love hitting.   
  
  Q.  In the first inning versus your former teammate Matsui, he got the base hit off of you, and then he advanced to second base.  If you could talk about your thoughts in that first inning, also including your fielding.   
 DAISUKE MATSUZAKA:  I knew that if the first pitch was a fastball, Kazuo was probably going to come after it, so I knew I had to pitch to a good location.  That pitch, I know that pitch wasn't his favorite spot, but he did hit it well.  But after that I guess he helped me out.   
 Even though I allowed a runner on, I didn't put too much pressure on myself after that, either.   
  
  Q.  You faced Matsui three times today.  Did you feel any different -- did you have any different feeling or emotion going into those at-bats, and now looking back at the game today?   
 DAISUKE MATSUZAKA:  It's different facing Kazuo-san compared to Ichiro, considering that Kazuo-san and I played on the same team.  But as their lead-off man I wanted to focus on not allowing him on base but I also wanted to enjoy the match-up today, which I felt I did.    
  
  Q.  You had previously mentioned that you would go into the game today trying to get ahead in the count and with a lot of first-pitch strikes.  Their batters stayed in there really well with a lot of foul balls, and with two consecutive walks you were asked to come off the mound.  If you could comment on how well those guys stayed in there, as well as if there was any control issues with your own pitching.   
 DAISUKE MATSUZAKA:  I felt that their lineup fought very well and stayed in there, and looking back, there may have been some different, easier ways to build the game.  I did feel that I wasted some pitches there in the sixth, but with our lead I didn't think that I'd be asked to change there.   
  
  Q.  Today being your start here in the World Series, did you feel any nervousness or pressure going into the game?  But now that you actually have won, can you talk about how you feel now?   
 DAISUKE MATSUZAKA:  I think that I felt more pressure going into Game 7 of the LCS, so today was easier mentally.   
 But the team won, and I didn't wind up being the one to stop our momentum.  So in that sense I feel very relieved.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT