AL DIVISION SERIES: RED SOX v ANGELS
October 1, 2008
Daisuke Matsuzaka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: What we normally do is Japanese questions. They'll be asked in Japanese, he will answer in Japanese and Masa will translate. 

 Q. Compared to last year how do you feel physically and mentally at this point and how did your experience from last year affect your preparation for the postseason? 
 DAISUKE MATSUAKA (THROUGH INTERPRETER): 
 And the response: Was compared to last year I was able to pitch through the entire regular season at my own pace, so I feel like I arrived here in a much better condition than I did last year. Winning the World Series was a big learning experience and I had my successes and my failures, but I hope I can build on both those and learn from them right from the beginning of the playoffs. 

 Q. Dice-K can you talk about facing the Angels and what will be some of the keys against a team like the Angels? 
 DAISUKE MATSUZAKA (THROUGH INTERPRETER): Last year we faced the Angels in the first round and I think I was a little bit overcautious about all the little things that they were going to do, so this year I just want to pitch the way that I can and not worry too much about who exactly I'm facing.  I also owe them one from the summer so I do want to pitch well. 

 Q. You just mentioned that you're not going to think too much about the opponent, but this is a lineup known for their quick feet and their power. Is there anyone that sticks out in their lineup and is there a particular approach you're it go to take against that hitter? 
 DAISUKE MATSUZAKA (THROUGH INTERPRETER): When you're playing a team like the Angels, there are things that you certainly need to avoid doing, and I'm going to be careful to avoid making those mistakes. But those aren't things that I really want to discuss right here. 

 Q. Compared to other pitchers, you seem to throw a little bit high number of pitches. Is that something and you and the Red Sox have worked on? Or are you a more effective pitcher the way you are and there is no point in trying to change that? 
 DAISUKE MATSUZAKA (THROUGH INTERPRETER): From when I was pitching in Japan, I've always had a high pitch count, but I know that puts a lot of strain on our bullpen here, and it's not something that we need to discuss as a team, it's something that I'm aware of as my own problem and it's something that I need to work on gradually over time. 

 Q. Your numbers were strong over all but they were particularly strong on the road. Was there anything about pitching on the road where you were more comfortable? Was there any reason for that? 
 DAISUKE MATSUZAKA (THROUGH INTERPRETER): Whether it's home or on the road, I'm not taking any different approach, and just trying to pitch as usual at home and on the road. 
 For me, the difference in my numbers at home and on the road is not something that I've really thought about. 

 Q. This summer after facing the Angels, you mentioned after the game that it was a good learning experience in terms of the need to change your pace while you pitch. Is that something that you're going to be conscious of going into this start? 
 DAISUKE MATSUZAKA (THROUGH INTERPRETER): Changing my pace is not -- it wasn't just important in that game, it's important in facing any opponent. 

 Q. Terry Francona talked about how much enjoyment he got out of seeing you celebrate with your teammates last week, wearing the goggles and throwing champagne and everything. He thought he felt more a part of this team this year and being more comfortable year, and I was wondering if you feel the same way. 
 DAISUKE MATSUZAKA (THROUGH INTERPRETER): Compared to last year, I definitely feel much more comfortable just being in the clubhouse. I feel at home. I think this has had a good effect on my game as well. I've been able to play with a lot more comfort this season. 

 Q. Sorry to keep bringing back last year, but at the beginning of the playoffs last season you mentioned that your approach would be to continue what you were doing through the regular season. Unlike Japan, where the playoffs don't start right away after the end of the regular season, you face your first start immediately, and what are some of the thoughts going through your mind now as compared to last year? 
 DAISUKE MATSUZAKA (THROUGH INTERPRETER): As you said, the season just ended, and my start is already right around the corner, but during this week I've stayed on the same rhythm and stayed with the same program in terms of preparation and if I think too much that this is the playoffs, that this is going to be different, I think there is a danger there. 
 If we can maintain our own pace as a team, I think we have a better chance of winning. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you both. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT