CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 24, 2014
Jennifer Ha
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You could again now potentially be the low Canadian.   How did you feel about your weekend here?  
JENNIFER HA:   It was an amazing experience.   I've never played in an event like this and made the cut, so it was crazy.   But yeah, it's an amazing feeling.   I had a little bit of a disappointing finish at the end with a three‑putt, but hopefully it's good enough to be the low Canadian.  
   
 Q.   Did you find the course was playing a lot tougher today than the three previous days, or just a little bit tougher?  
JENNIFER HA:   Yeah, some of the conditions were tougher, the pins were much more tucked on the par‑3s and they were playing a little bit longer, so it was a little less accessible.   But I think that it was playing fair to the field.   
   
 Q.   As you were going through the turn, today is the last round, did you find yourself gaining more confidence the more you played in this type of environment?   Did you feel yourself‑‑  
JENNIFER HA:   Yeah, for sure, definitely.   When I first teed off on the first hole, I was so nervous, with a bunch of people watching me.   It was just so nerve‑racking.   But it definitely got better when I figured out they're here to cheer me on and they're here for the Canadians here, so it was nice.  
   
 Q.   How important is it to play tournaments like this for young players, to play in this environment?   
JENNIFER HA:   It's so important.   You can just feel the support and feel the love here.   It's definitely a little bit nerve‑racking for sure, but I think it's great experience for anyone who wants to turn pro or who wants to go further in golf.  
   
 Q.   How was it playing with Lexi Thompson?   You haven't played with her yet?  
JENNIFER HA:   No, this is my first time meeting her.   She was the nicest girl and she was a great player.   She was hitting the ball so well today.   I definitely could learn a thing or two.  
   
 Q.   Are you happy overall?  
JENNIFER HA:   Yeah, for sure.   I mean, who can't be happy with a made cut at a professional event in my home country?   
   
 Q.   What's up for you next?   Do classes start on Monday?  
JENNIFER HA:   Yep, classes start tomorrow.   I get to go back to reality, go back to school, and classes start first thing.   I need to get my books, and we have our first tournament in I think the second week of September in Minnesota, so hopefully we'll be playing well there.  
   
 Q.   You've got some good stories to tell your teammates.   
JENNIFER HA:   Yep, that's true.  
   
 Q.   How difficult is it to switch gears so quickly and think about going back to school tomorrow?  
JENNIFER HA:   It's a little tough.   I'll be honest.   I don't think I've actually written notes down for about two months, so my hand is going to be cramping up a little bit the first couple days of classes.   I've done it for three years, and I think I can push for one more.   
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT