CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 23, 2014
Jennifer Ha
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   We notice that you marked your balls with the No. 54.   What can you tell me about that?  
JENNIFER HA:   A recent football from your school passed away and his Jersey number was 54.   I guess this week is kind of in honor and memory of him.  
   
 Q.   Did you know him personally?  
JENNIFER HA:   Not well.   I saw him a little bit around campus.   I don't know all the football players, playing golf.   Not well, but yeah.   
   
 Q.   Quick comment about your round today.   
JENNIFER HA:   Yeah, I started off not very good.   I think I was 3‑over after 7 or 8 holes, but I held it together.   Came back and shot 73.   
Looking forward to tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   What is your goal for the weekend now that you made the cut, now that you are here?  
JENNIFER HA:   My goal was to make the cut for this week.   My coaches talked about what I'm going to do for Sunday, and they kind of talked as if I was going to make it and I think that helped a lot.   I think my main goal right now is to have the time of my life.  
   
 Q.   Do you look at the leaderboard?   Do you look at try to being the low Canadian?   Do you consider that as a goal?   You are two strokes behind Brooke.   Is that something you even look at and set as a goal?  
JENNIFER HA:   Yeah, of course.   It would be unreal to finish as a low amateur.   But I'm out here to have fun for this week, and kind of to honor Jason.  
   
 Q.   What is the like being one of the younger players on the Tour today?  
JENNIFER HA:   It's really cool.   I get to learn so much from this, even more so than other tournaments because I get to watch the players that I play with and how experienced they are and how good they are.   It's an honor for me.  
   
 Q.   You have a killer instinct.   You were playing a match play once and a girl played out of turn and you made her replay the shot.   Someone as nice as you are to have that killer instinct, is that necessary?   
JENNIFER HA:   You know, I think it's a part of golf, friendship definitely and sportsmanship probably.   But I wanted to win the match and I've been‑‑ there was a match before that, a girl hit out of turn and I didn't make her replay, and she won the whole Am.   It almost cost me the match.   So I figured that's just something you've got to do.   I'm still friends with her.  
   
 Q.   Are you friends at all with Brooke?   I know you grew up in different places.   Are you close with her at all?  
JENNIFER NA:   I'm rooming with her this week and it's been awesome.   I got to know her a lot this year when I made the team.   I knew her sister a little bit before.   But yeah, she's awesome.  
   
 Q.   Do you consider her competition this weekend?   I know you're playing against the whole field, but do you consider wanting to shoot better than her or shoot as well as her?  
JENNIFER HA:   Of course.   Brooke is like unreal.   She is No. 2 in the world, so it would be great if I had a chance to catch up to her.   We'll see what happens.  
   
 Q.   Do you go back to school next week?   
JENNIFER HA:   I do, actually on Monday.   School starts on Monday, and I'm driving down with my coach.   So wish me look for that.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT