ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 3, 2016
Suzie McConnell-Serio
Yacine Diop
Brenna Wise
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Miami - 77, Pitt - 55
SUZIE MCCONNELL-SERIO: You know, this is always a tough time when you end your season with a loss, but so proud of the way our team had competed these last two days, and really enjoyed coaching this group of young ladies and so excited about our future being such a young team.  But today, talking about the game, Miami, we knew coming in the challenges that we faced going against Miami having so many weapons.  They have so many scorers on the floor, shooters, and you know, they play at a high pace with full court pressure, disrupting what you try to do, and we knew that we had to be efficient offensively going into this game, and they took us out of a rhythm early.  I thought we competed in the first quarter.  Second quarter we struggled, but in the second half we tried a little bit of everything, tried a 2-3 zone, tried a 3-2 match-up, went man-to-man and I think a little bit of fatigue setting in as the game progressed, but a little too much of Miami over the course of the gaming coming in fresh.  Katie Meier does a great job with her team and puts them in a position to be successful.  They run some good sets that we just didn't have an answer for today.
So even though it's a tough day, I'm excited about where our program is headed, and we talked about we don't want to be playing our second game on this day.  We're trying to close the gap and get back to the middle of the conference where we were a year ago.
Q. Coach, what led to the big difference between shooting percentages between you and them in the first half?
SUZIE MCCONNELL-SERIO: You know, they do a good job.  They were icing on ball screens, disrupting our side pick-and-rolls.  I thought we were a little stagnant offensively.  Our execution wasn't as sharp as it needed to be in the first half, and I think in the second quarter, they really did a nice job of disrupting once we go deeper into our bench.  We played our starters a lot of minutes yesterday, so in the first half trying to get different players on the floor, working with different combinations, I thought there was a drop-off in our execution, and really our productivity.
They capitalized on that, but I just think they were -- they're really good, and we obviously played them a while ago, but Motley, she doesn't even have to score a lot.  Just her presence on the floor, being an all-conference performer, you have to be aware of her.  I think Thomas is doing a nice job as their point guard, and they have a balanced scoring attack.  They can score inside and outside, and they saw that.  Any time we tried to take away the inside game helping down, they found shooters on the perimeter.  If we were helping on penetration they found their post players.  It was a struggle with the different changes we were trying to make.  They capitalized on everything that we tried to do.
Q. This is a young group.  You're all back next year.  What do you take away from this season moving forward?
BRENNA WISE: Experience for one thing.  We learned a lot as we progressed, and I think we showed a lot of growth throughout the season from our first game to this last game, and that experience underneath our belt will help us in the years to come.
Q. What do you think of the atmosphere with all the children in the building?
YACINE DIOP: I mean, the atmosphere was great.  It was a great public -- it was a great audience, and we had fun playing like in this atmosphere.
BRENNA WISE: You don't get a chance to play in almost a sold-out crowd.  That's part of the experience of going to the ACC tournament.  This is something we'll never forget and look forward to next year.
Q. How tough were they inside?  The rebounding numbers were lopsided.  You held your own with Carolina, actually did better than Carolina yesterday, but how tough was Miami inside?
YACINE DIOP: They were very tough.  They were very physical, and we just didn't match their physicality.  I think that made a big difference in this game.
BRENNA WISE: They had an inside and outside presence, so I think you`re fighting on both the perimeter inside and we`ve just got to work more inside and hit the weight room.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT