NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SUNS v LAKERS
May 25, 2010
Alvin Gentry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. (Off microphone)?
 COACH GENTRY: I don't know. You have to ask him. He's got 10 championship rings. We just do the best we can to try to win games, whatever that means.

 Q. (Off microphone)?
 COACH GENTRY: One of the two. Open in zone or man-to-man.

 Q. (Off microphone)?
 COACH GENTRY: We'll go with regular substitution. We're going to keep playing him. And we still have a lot of confidence in him. He'll just have to step in and make shots. He has to shot them with confidence.
 As I said, I think the first shot he shot he rushed a little bit. The other ones were he shot in good rhythm. They just didn't go in. You can't worry about it. You've just got to shoot the next one.
 I told him we had Clint Richardson here, shot 35 3s in two games. So you have to be willing to step in and shoot 'em. And he will. I'm not worried about it.

 Q. (Off microphone)?
 COACH GENTRY: You know, they've done, if you look at the defense, they've done the best job of anyone defending the 3. We knew that that would be a little bit of a factor. I still say we hadn't shot the ball well as we have. 
 We played against teams that does a good job of running off the 3. But we always seem to space the floor. We didn't shoot them well in the first two games, simply because we didn't come up with any stops. We were never in the open court. We shot them -- Jason shot them a little better the other night. We still had some that really were makeable, J.D. and those guys. But we just didn't get them in the basket. 
 We'll continue to explore. And what's available to us, that's what we'll take.

 Q. (Off microphone)?
 COACH GENTRY: We'll play the way we always play. When guys go in there, we'll leave them in the game. If not, we stay with a standard rotation. So we're going to play the way we always play and try to win the game that way. That's where we've had the most success this year. 
 So, I mean, there's no big surprises who is going to be out there. And we'll play some zone and some man. I'm sure it's not a surprise to the Lakers at all. And we'll do whatever we have to do to try to win the game. Including hiding guys if we have to. (Laughter)

 Q. (Question about the zone])?
 COACH GENTRY: Well, I don't know if we need to change it. But we have to understand that obviously the areas that we looked at today where we thought we were weak, those are the areas where they're going to attack. So we had to make an adjustment as to what we were going to do and particular situations, because just looking at it as a coach and as a coaching staff, we have to try to put on our thinking caps, okay, we're sitting over there in the locker room, what are we going to try to do to attack the zone. 
 And after looking at the weak points in it, I think we have to try to figure out how we don't let them exploit those situations.

 Q. (Question about the importance of getting off to a good start)?
 COACH GENTRY: To be honest with you, I was not discouraged in the game here the other night. I thought we did a good job defensively. Every one of Kobe's jump shots, he goes 6 for 7 in the first quarter. Every one of them was a challenged jump shot. That's all you can ask, you know? 
 There's a reason that they pay him a lot of, a lot of money there because he's a hell of a player. Sometimes when he gets in the zone, when he's making shots, doesn't matter if there's a hand in his face or not. 
 As long as we have him shooting challenged shots where he's not wide open, you have to understand that's going to be part of it. 

 Q. (Question about Amar'e)?
 COACH GENTRY: I don't know, to be honest with you. We're still going to try to go to him. I think it's very important that we're doing that in transitions on misses, where we're attacking, that's where we're at our best. When we're attacking off made baskets, they do a great job because they have the defense set and they do a good job of loading up and taking away driving range. That's what we experienced in LA.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT