NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SUNS v LAKERS
May 24, 2010
Alvin Gentry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   COACH GENTRY: We don't have a new wrinkle. We don't have a new wrinkle. All we got is an old wrinkle, can't you see? We've just got to keep playing.   
 They're a great team, and we know that. And we have to play well to beat them. And you've got to try to take something away from them. I thought we did a decent job.   
 And they shot a bunch of 3s, and fortunately they didn't make a lot of them. But we have to try to give something and try to take something away. So that's what we tried to do.  
  
  Q. Talk about practice (indiscernible). Just keep rolling along? (Indiscernible) resolved.   
 COACH GENTRY: Doesn't matter. He just plays. It doesn't matter what the injury is or what the situation is. He's out this morning in practice. Obviously he's in pain with his nose or whatever. But he thought it was important to be here. He's here. Now he's off to the doctor to take a look at it, see what the situation is.   
 But to me, I mean, I think he's as tough as they come. When they talk about the hockey mentality, he's the epitome of what the hockey mentality is out there. He just keeps going. You saw what happened in the game last night. He tried to rearrange his own nose.   
 You know, for somebody to do that -- my wife was in a car accident and broke her nose. And it almost made her physically sick to see him grab his nose and then just try to rearrange it himself.   
 So you know the pain that's involved in that. So he's a gamer. You want to use an old cliche, he's a gamer. He's really a gamer.  
  
  Q. Has it been determined (indiscernible) wear a mask?  
 COACH GENTRY: He won't wear a mask. I don't care what they determine. He's like Ginobili. He's not going to wear a mask. If they restrict what he does, then he's not going to wear a mask. But we'll just to see what happens today.  
  
  Q. Did he do everything today (indiscernible)?  
 COACH GENTRY: Yeah, he did everything today. He has a doctor's appointment that he's got to get to.  
  
  Q. Is Steve a magnet for this kind of stuff?  
 COACH GENTRY: I don't know. You know, it seems to happen to him. I can't -- he just shrugged his shoulders and moves on. He just said, I can't believe it, I finally get my eye back to where it's seemingly healthy, and then this happened. He goes, I guess it's just what it is.   
 Like you said, he would rather be where we are right now and be dealing with his nose and his eyes than to be sitting somewhere not playing at all.  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 COACH GENTRY: I think they attack it just like they did. I mean, they missed some shots that they normally make. And so we understand that. But we have to try to take something away from them.   
 We're trying to take some of the things that they do on the inside, the easy baskets, and if you do that, you know, you're going to give up some shots.   
  
  Q. He complains (indiscernible)?  
 COACH GENTRY: Let's hope they have something to complain about again. I mean, I don't know. We just gotta play. We have to try every way we can to find the situation where we can win. And whatever that takes, that's what it is. And if we have to play our girly zone, as somebody said, we'll play our girly zone.  
  
  Q. You don't like it. But --  
 COACH GENTRY: No, but we're going to do whatever we have to to win. I'm sure that's what a lot of situations were out there. You don't particularly like what you're doing and that's not the way basketball-wise you kind of have grown up. I've been in the league long enough that the zone is not something that you -- there's not a whole lot of teams who spend a lot of time playing zone. But you gotta do whatever you have to to try to win a game.   
 We won't play zone if they won't throw it to Kobe.  
  
  Q. The satisfaction of Amar'e after (indiscernible) thinking about it today?  
 COACH GENTRY: I mean, Amar'e is a competitor. I mean, what he says, I mean, he meant. He's not a guy that says something that he doesn't really mean. And I think for him, it was just getting in the situation. And to be honest with you, I went to him a lot earlier in the game to get him going, because he asked me to.   
 And he felt like that he can take advantage of some situations. I thought he did a great job of it.   
  
  Q. (Question off microphone)?  
 COACH GENTRY: They're long and they're big. Without Bynum in there, Lamar is a long guy, but obviously not as long as Bynum and doesn't protect the basket quite as well. But they're still a long team in there. I just thought Amar'e did a good job of being aggressive and attacking before they could really get set. We did a good job of pushing the ball and getting it in the open court, too, though.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT