NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SUNS v LAKERS
May 21, 2010
Alvin Gentry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   COACH GENTRY: No, I'm telling you guys, that's who we are. We don't have the game-face, whatever you guys want to call it. We're a team that plays loose and enjoys it. We play hard in practice. We'll come back out and see what happens on Sunday.

 Q. How frustrating do you think it's been for Amare personally, with Odom in Game 1 and Gasol in the fourth quarter in Game 2?
 COACH GENTRY: Obviously it's frustrating. They threw the ball in. Gasol is a really good low post player. That's why we try to find him and do some things with him. But he kept it in there. He's got footwork like Tim Duncan. He's a real smart player. 
 We've got to do a better job in that area right there. We've got to get them down. We get him to 50% we'll have a chance to win. But 58% in two games, it's impossible. Our offense has been fine. Scored 112 and 107. But if you're giving up in the high 120s, then you're not going to be able to win a game against anyone, really.
 So we just gotta do a better job in certain areas right there. We get to come home. We played before our fans and stuff we've been pretty good here. So we'll see what happens.

 Q. What will you do defensively different?
 COACH GENTRY: We have to help him more. That's what we've been. We've been a good team, defensive team. We don't have a ton of great individual defenders, but what we've done this year is been able to defend as a team. 
 We've got to get a little better in that area right there. Rebounding, we've actually done a pretty good job of with that. 12 offensive rebounds they got both games, that's going to happen against our team. We're not a big team. But you know it's not like we're giving up 20 or 22 offensive rebounds. We've done a good job in that area right there.
 We've just got to take away some of the real easy baskets. I thought we did a much better job on the dribble penetration from the perimeter players. And now we've just got to come up with some good defense on the big guys.

 Q. Are they communicating more or --
 COACH GENTRY: A little bit of everything. Just overall we've got to do a better job of guarding the ball on the wings better. Rotating better. Being back better. Getting guys off the boards better. Just overall we've got to do a little better.

 Q. (Question about number of turnovers getting off to a good start)
 COACH GENTRY: If we're playing better defense, then those don't become nearly as glaring either. So we have the game tied and we turned it over three straight times in the fourth quarter. We can't afford to do that against a really good team. 
 But, you know, if we're doing a good job defensively, then they don't hurt nearly as much as they do when you're struggling defensively. So that's why I said -- one of the things we've done this year is we have not counted on our offense to be the difference in the game. 
 We're a good offensive team. We understand that. But the reason we've gotten separation in certain games is because we've been able to come up with stops right out. 
 When you're trying to match baskets and then you turn the ball over, then you get yourself in trouble. That's pretty obvious right there. Even the math department at Appalachian State can teach you that. They're scoring and you're not, you're probably going to get behind. Okay? So we understand that. We just have to do a better job of running on misses and then trying to come up with stops. And that's how we can -- that's how we got back in the game. 
 Obviously we were 11 down and we were able to tie the game because we came up with stops. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT