NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SUNS v LAKERS
May 18, 2010
Alvin Gentry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   COACH GENTRY: I thought Robin played well. You know, I thought LB and Dwayne came in and did a good job for us.   
 The bottom line is that it wasn't so much, when you look at the scores in the paint, it wasn't so much that the big guys didn't get in the paint, it was the middle drives and it would be the penetration that is something that I think we need to do a much better job in.  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 COACH GENTRY: No, because the same thing happened in the Portland series where we lost the whole game. So I think we have guys, the leadership on this team, Steve and Amare and Grant and those guys, they understand the peaks and valleys of the playoffs.   
 (Indiscernible) last second shot to win the game. No. You go back and you look at the tape and you take from that. And we jumped in and have seen some areas we have to improve on. We see some areas where we've got to get better defensively. And that's what it's all about.  
  
  Q. Were you disappointed in the defense?  
 COACH GENTRY: It wasn't so much that. Kobe makes those shots. He makes them against everybody in the world. When he gets on a roll like that, he makes them against everyone.   
 We're not the only team that he's 40-40 on. I think when you go back and look, he's had some pretty big games. He had 40 in the finals, the first game of the finals last year. And when you've been in a situation like that, that's fine. What we have to do we've got to be able to do a better job on the secondary players. Amare, ended up being the difference in the game really. He changed the whole game, the difference in the game. Better job on them, easing them off the boards, to them being able to, just making a few jump shots not far from the paint.  
  
  Q. (Off microphone)?  
 COACH GENTRY: They do a good job. They shot the ball well from 3. They do a good job on the 3-point shooters. That's good. We still (indiscernible) the 3-point shot. Those are the areas that we're trying to do better in.   
 You know, when you look at it, at the end of the day, it's one game. And actually with seven 9-point games, a couple of turnovers, and Kobe made that big 3, we understand that. And we don't have to just play well to beat them, we have to play better and we will.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT