NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SUNS v LAKERS
May 28, 2010
Alvin Gentry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Feeling better?   
 COACH GENTRY: I'm feeling better. Something I ate. I was trying to not let it come back up, but it beat me to the punch (laughter). It was artichoke, okay, grilled artichoke, so...   
 I'll tell you what Charles said. It's going to be Steve or Amar'e, not me (laughter).   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 COACH GENTRY: No, had to do something. That didn't bother us. That was a non-factor, if you ask me.   
 When you come down to it, look at the stat sheet, the difference in the game is our turnovers. Gave 22 points off turnovers. That's what got us in trouble.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 COACH GENTRY: No, didn't get under his skin. Goran, if he's going to cheap shot him, he'll retaliate. I don't blame him. Goran is not a kid to start taking any stuff. That was fine with me.   
  
  Q. How are you feeling now? You come back, a tough loss.   
 COACH GENTRY: We're fine. We're fine. Once again, you know, we got to try to win our game here. All we got to do is win one game there. Doesn't matter if it's 1, 2, 5 or 7. But before we think about that, we have to take care of business here.   
 We understand that, you know, it's an elimination game for us so we have to play our butts off and try to put ourself in a position to get a trip back to L.A. to try to do it again.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 COACH GENTRY: We are planning on winning Game 6. We're planning on winning Game 6. We have to win Game 6 in order to get back to L.A. Yeah, we are planning on doing that.   
  
  Q. It was a painful loss. The way it ended, does it show the heart maybe you bring?  
 COACH GENTRY: I don't know about that. I just know that we're not a team that quits. Like I told our guys during the timeout, let's see if we can get it to a workable number with three or four minutes to go, see if we have an opportunity to win.   
 It didn't work out that way. But that game is over. We can't relive any part of it. We can't relive Ron's shot or the shot before that either, you know, so...   
 It's a situation, we tried to give ourself an opportunity to win. We thought that we did. They won it on a play that, as I said, championship teams make.   
 We're still right in the series. They tell me the series doesn't start till somebody wins on somebody's home court. Hopefully we can take care of that tomorrow and we'll have one more chance to go out there and win on their home court. That's why you play the whole season, in order to get home court. That's the advantage that they have right now.   
  
  Q. (Question regarding turnovers.)   
 COACH GENTRY: No, we had done a good job of managing that. They had fast-break points because we turned the ball over. Then the second-chance points obviously came. We had done a good job on the boards, and all of a sudden we give up 19 offensive rebounds. That's tough against this team here. We have to do a better job of Lamar, keeping him off the boards.   
 You know, someone said, You guys are playing zone so much. At the end of the day, they shot 41.8%. That's counting all the layups off of our turnovers.   
 Our defense is fine. We got to give ourselves more opportunities to run in the open court. The only way we can do that is by rebounding the basketball.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT