ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 26, 2019
Marcus Fraser
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Bogey-free 66, you must be pleased with your round?  
MARCUS FRASER: Absolutely, yeah. Felt like practise was really good the last few days, and got over here Sunday, a day early than what I normally arrive. So it was nice to hunker down. Pretty steady out there today. Didn't do much. Made some nice putts and kept the round ticking along.   
 Q.  How did you find conditions around Kingsbarns today?  
MARCUS FRASER: Yeah, it was nice. The breeze kicked up a little bit but we didn't get any rain. We obviously got a lot of rain last night. It was pretty soft out there. But overall, it was probably a 20-kilometre breeze. Yeah, it was pretty nice out there. Pretty benign conditions, really.   
 Q.  What do you take from this round and into tomorrow at St. Andrews, shifting the courses and having that change up?  
MARCUS FRASER: Yeah, feels like all the greens are at a similar pace. St. Andrews is the best golf course on the planet, so any time we get to go there is pretty special, and this tournament's pretty special.   
I just feel like if I can keep doing what I'm doing, and just be patient, I feel like, you know, if I can just get it on the green somewhere near the hole, I think I'll try and let the putter go to work.   
 Q.  You say it's a special tournament. How much do you enjoy having the amateurs here, and maybe a bit more of the relaxed feel that it has and the quality golf courses, as well?  
MARCUS FRASER: It's great. It's completely different to what we normally do. We are pretty stubborn and selfish people, golfers. It's nice to be out there with some amateurs and that's why golf is such a great game.   
Handicaps bring us all back to a level playing field, and as long as we are compatible people and we all get along out there and have a great day. This tournament is pretty unique and it sort of sets the tone for the standard for all these types of events around the world.   
Luckily I was out there with Graeme, a really good friend of mine I played with five or six years ago and we were paired today, and it was fun being out there with him, and Marco, a lovely guy who lives in Dubai. Just a nice, relaxed, comfortable feel out there. I think it rubs off on a lot of us.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT