WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 3, 2016
Marcus Fraser
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You showed great play in Malaysia back in February.  Did you see this round coming?
MARCUS FRASER: Before Malaysia, I didn't see it coming, but yeah, pulled that one out of the hat and played well all week.  Then played well last week in Perth.  I felt pretty good, to rest up and get ready for today, I wasn't far away.
Q. Great stretch of birdies on the front nine, your back side.  The second shot on 8, did that rough grab the hosel and shut the face down a little?
MARCUS FRASER: A little, yeah, it just came out quite gamey and chased down.  I actually thought it was perfect.  It probably needed another couple of yards and all of a sudden, anyways, bounced left again and found its way into the water.  It was a bit unfortunate but felt like I hit a decent shot down there.
Feel like I'm putting well.  Feel like I'm starting to feel comfortable with my golf swing again.  It's been a long time coming but starting to feel pretty good.
Q. How would you assess your play today?
MARCUS FRASER: It was really steady.  Felt like I had a lot of control over the ball.  A couple of weak drives, but other than that, felt like I really gave myself a chance on just about every hole, which obviously you need to do on this golf course.  I'm probably one of the shortest hitters here, so have to play the golf course fairly smartly.
Q. You played in Perth over the weekend and flew here.  How are your legs right now?
MARCUS FRASER: I've felt better but at the same time, been doing this for 14 years, flying all over the place.  I'm used to it and I feel like I've got some good rest in.  I felt like I was ready to go today.
Q. Posting an early number, what does that do optimistically as you move through tomorrow?
MARCUS FRASER: Yeah, sure, it's obviously a great way to start, especially in a golf tournament like this and a golf course as strong as this.  I've obviously got a lot of confidence from today.  My previous results at Doral haven't been that great.  Nice to get a good one early and hopefully build on that over the next few days.
Q. Tell us about the journey, obviously Malaysia, and via home, as well.
MARCUS FRASER: I haven't been home, but yeah, I went straight from Malaysia to Perth, and yeah, felt like I was starting to, even though before Malaysia, my game didn't feel that great.  Then all of the sudden it clicked in Malaysia.  I feel like I carried that into Perth and feel like I've done that again today.
Q. How good did it feel to get back in the winner's circle?
MARCUS FRASER: Yeah, it's I think six years since I last won, so nice to not only get in the mix but then to go and make a couple of good putts on 17 and 18 to win the tournament.  You forget pretty quickly how special it does feel, and how hard it is to actually do it, so it's nice.  I really enjoyed that one, that's for sure.
Q. How did the course today play?  What do you think you did well today?
MARCUS FRASER: I felt like I did everything really well.  Felt like I played really steady and I putted really well again.  The greens is perfect out there.  There's not a mark on them, so if you feel like if you read them well and get the ball started on line, it's a good chance to go in I felt like everything was pretty good today and felt like it was all around, I did a good job.
Q. Will you get any extra rest tonight or do anything different?
MARCUS FRASER: No, I think luckily I've got a another late tee time.  It was one o'clock today and 12 o'clock tomorrow.  So it actually works out really well to try and get as many hours in as I can and try to adjust to the different time zone and all that kind of stuff is difficult.  But at the same time, it is what it is and I felt like I've got some good rest in so far this week, so hopefully I continue to do it.
Q. This is obviously a big event this week.  In general, what other events if you look ahead are you looking forward to for the rest of this year?
MARCUS FRASER: Obviously get into the Match Play.  Obviously before Malaysia, it wasn't even a chance, so definitely my schedule has changed a hell of a lot just from that win.  Been lucky enough to obviously get in this week, the Match Play.  I'm not far off the Masters, and hopefully a good week this week, I can get into the Masters.
US PGA, Akron, all these events have been added to my schedule now from obviously one good week.  It's completely changed my year and I'm obviously very thankful for it and going to enjoy it, as well.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT