DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 19, 2015
Marcus Fraser
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What are your thoughts on 6-under par to start this championship?  
MARCUS FRASER: It was good.  I felt like I played great.  Felt like I was in control of my game most of the day.  Managed to make a couple of putts.  Greens are that good; if you pick the right line and you hit it online, it's going to go in.  Pretty simple.  Some of the best greens we can putt on.   
 Q.  From the start, three birdies in succession and flying to halfway and moving to 7-under at one stage, as well?  
MARCUS FRASER: It's always nice to get off to a fast start and kept it going.  16 is always a hard hole for me.  Missed my drive and going in with a 3-iron, it was always going to be a bit tough.  That's the way it is.  But did a lot of good out there, so it was good fun.   
 Q.  So is this a continuation of Shanghai, because you're playing pretty well out there?  
MARCUS FRASER: I felt comfortable last week.  Felt like I practiced really well at the start of the week and yeah, you just never know in this game.  To go out there and shoot 6-under, bit of a sleep in tomorrow, which will be nice.   
 Q.  Is it good to be back here, because you had to miss last year, didn't you?  
MARCUS FRASER: I had to miss all of last year.  After playing well last week and making sure I got in, it's always -- you know you've done a few things right if you can come and play this tournament to finish off the year.  So yeah, especially after a year like I had last year, pleased to get into this tournament.   
 Q.  Is it nice to see these Golf Estates growing, maturing, the course so much more established these days?  
MARCUS FRASER: Yeah, there's people actually living in some of the houses now.  It's great.  The trees have matured so much and the golf course is fantastic.  The condition of it, you just can't fault.  It's a nice way to finish off the year and have a course in this kind of condition is beautiful.   
 Q.  You did make the point in China that that course was probably a bit too long for you and this is one of the long ones, as well.  Have you got the strategy right?  
MARCUS FRASER: This course is longer but doesn't feel like it plays long because the greens are quite undulating.  You get quite a bit of assistance on the greens.  You're hitting sometimes two clubs less because the greens, they fall away and the ball just runs out.  It is a long golf courses but for some reason it doesn't feel quite as long.  Gives you plenty of options off the tee, as well, which is nice.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT