ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 1, 2015
Marcus Fraser
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What are your thoughts on a round of 66?  
MARCUS FRASER: It was perfect out there this morning.  Only the last half an hour the breeze has kicked up a little bit, only a club breeze.  Missed a couple of chances and could have been a really good round, but hopefully get we those tomorrow.   
 Q.  Probably a silly question, but is it easy?  
MARCUS FRASER: The pins they are not tucked away anywhere and all straightforward spots.  Such a generous golf course when it's pretty benign like it is out there.  Definitely some good scoring out there today.   
 Q.  Which means when you start the round, presumably you're chasing those birdies and frustrated if they don't drop?  
MARCUS FRASER: Exactly.  It felt like I had three really good chances the last three holes and didn't get one of them.  A bit frustrating to finish like that but that's the way it is.  Felt like I had plenty of chances all day so hopefully that continues.   
 Q.  Are you conscious, as well, when you start at Kingsbarns if you really do want a foundation throughout the courses to come?  
MARCUS FRASER: If the weather stays like this all week, who knows what the scoring is going to be.  It's going to be pretty impressive at the end of the week.  You know when a course is set up like the way it is in the conditions we have, you know the scoring is going to be good so you have to get after it.   
 Q.  Put this in context, then, because we haven't seen you up on a leaderboard for a little while?  
MARCUS FRASER: I felt like I played all right last week.  Just didn't hole anything.  Yeah, I had six weeks off before Italy, so time at home, which was nice.  Pretty busy end of the year now so looking forward to hopefully playing some good golf.   
 Q.  That's part of the planning, was it, knowing it's going to be a busy spell?  
MARCUS FRASER: Yeah, I think six weeks off at home and then I'm playing 10 in 12 weeks to finish off the year.  Not easy on the kids back home but going to try to hopefully make some money and put some food on the table.  That's the way it is and hopefully we go out and have a good week this week.   
 Q.  While we trust the injury problems are well and truly behind you, is it a case of having to manage things, as well?  
MARCUS FRASER: Yeah, for sure.  Obviously getting older now, so there's always something niggling away, and there's always past injuries that pop up.  Yeah, hopefully learning to manage things a little bit now than what I used to and hopefully get a couple more years out of this game.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT