THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2015
Marcus Fraser
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. You got yourself back in it.MARCUS FRASER: Yeah, I was just trying to tag along with Leish.  He got off to a flyer and I was just trying to keep up.  Couldn't do that, but still pretty happy for him, otherwise a good score on the Old Course.  That's always good.Q. Did you think you were witnessing a 62 out there?MARCUS FRASER: Yeah, I thought we were for sure.  On 16 and 17 he hit two -- nearly his two best putts for the day and they managed to stay out so it was a bit unlucky, and then it was good to see him get up and down on the last to go and shoot 8-under.  He played pretty much flawless golf all day long.  It was pretty impressive to watch.Q. When you're playing with a guy who's on like that, does that propel you along, as well?MARCUS FRASER: Yeah, for sure.  I was just plodding along and I think I turned even par, I think, and then once he sort of lit up, I sort of just tried to tag along the back of it and managed to make about four birdies in the last 10 holes, I think.  Yeah, definitely I was excited for him to play well, but I wanted to join in the party, as well, and try and make some of my own, so it was nice to do that.  It was good fun.Q. You've played here in the Dunhill Links?MARCUS FRASER: Yeah.Q. Is that your best round around this golf course?MARCUS FRASER: I think I've got 6- or 7-under a couple of times, but it was pretty benign weather, which it was for most of the day, as well, today.  But towards the end of the wind sort of got up and we got a bit of rain and got a bit tricky, but yeah, managed to get a score in.Q. (Inaudible.)MARCUS FRASER: Yeah, it feels like I've been playing all right all week, the last few weeks, but haven't really got anything out of it, so it was nice to have a pretty steady round and play some good golf again.Q. (Inaudible.)MARCUS FRASER: Well, he's on his way to the airport, so he can't take any credit for Leish's performance today I don't think.  That's only fair, isn't it, that he's on his way to Canada?  No, I feel sorry for him because it's the first time we've played together in a long time and to be paired together in a major at the British Open, he's missed out on it and he's on his way to the airport.  We'll send him a few texts, don't worry.Q. You've played a lot of golf together and that sort of thing.  What was the vibe like when he was hot?  Did you sort of pump him up through it?MARCUS FRASER: Yeah, every time he hit a good shot, a good putt, just tried to keep him up, which wasn't that hard because he's a pretty carefree sort of man, so nothing really fazes him.  He played great all day and it's always nice to be tagging along behind somebody who's playing well, but one of your good mates is even better.Q. Guys talk about when they're playing a major (inaudible) easier to do that than playing with someone you're so familiar with?MARCUS FRASER: Yeah, I mean, we had a practice round together, so it felt pretty cruisy out there just to go and have a hit, so it was nice and a relaxed sort of day, especially playing in a two-ball.  It makes a big difference.  I didn't feel like the third round of a major, but at the end of the day, it was, and we both played well, so it was nice.Q. (Inaudible.)MARCUS FRASER: Well, I think next week in Switzerland is a co-sanctioned event, so hopefully that counts.  I think maybe the end of the year, Hong Kong, hopefully get back over there.  I always enjoy playing over there.  It's good fun.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT