HONG KONG OPEN
October 19, 2014
Marcus Fraser
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What's your verdict? 
MARCUS FRASER:   Pretty frustrated I suppose.   Any time you have a chance to win a golf tournament, you're leading the last round and not do it, it's pretty frustrating.   Been pretty good at that the last few years.   Done that quite a bit.   So something I've got to sort out.

Q.   Is this occasion different given the eight months you've had away from the game? 
MARCUS FRASER:   A little bit but still kicks you in the guts when you do it.   To go out and play so well for three days and play pretty ordinary for most of today was pretty frustrating.   To get back in with a little bit of a sniff and make two bogeys straightaway was pretty frustrating.   It is what it is but just when you think you're happy to be back on a golf course, this game knows how to kick you in the guts once again.

Q.   You look like you've recovered after that shot at the first, basically?
MARCUS FRASER:   Yeah, just went to pitch it down the fairway and came out left and went into the rough and had no shot.   That's the way it is.   But hopefully a few things to work on for next week in Perth.   Back‑to‑back weeks is what I was aiming to do, see if I can get through two weeks and now get through next week. 

Q.   And no problems with the hand? 
MARCUS FRASER:   No, it's fine.   It's just the brain is a bit scarred, that's all, which is always is when I walk on a golf course.   Try and sort it out and hopefully next week is a better week.

Q.   Might not be the best time to look ahead but quite some track in Perth and a terrific event?
MARCUS FRASER:   It's a great golf course.   I enjoyed it last year and finished I think 15th or 16th last year.   It's a good golf course and got work to do to try and have another good week next week.

Q.   Work to do, but there must be so many positives?
MARCUS FRASER:   Yeah, positive just being back on the golf course.   That's the fun part but when you have a day like I did today, brings things back to reality.   But that's all right, get over it pretty quickly, take a sleeping tablet on the plane tonight and wake up in Perth.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT