HONG KONG OPEN
October 18, 2014
Marcus Fraser
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Wonderful round and some beautiful short play there. 
MARCUS FRASER:   Yeah, it was good.   Towards the end it was pretty good.   But the start of the round wasn't ideal.   Was a bit scrappy.   Then finally started playing golf on the back nine, which was good.   Very happy with the finish coming down the stretch.   That was good.

Q.   No element of surprise to see yourself where you are? 
MARCUS FRASER:   No one is more surprised than I am, that's for sure, after eight months of sitting on the couch.   Hasn't been the best eight months, but you know, when you go out and play like that makes it worth it, that's for sure. 

Q.   We touched on this yesterday but what did you expect out of this week?
MARCUS FRASER:   I felt like practice last week was really good.   Felt like I was sort of heading in the right direction.   Started practicing probably six, seven weeks ago and it was going along okay but last week felt like everything fell into place.   Then coming out and playing a tournament is just a completely different thing.   And not playing for eight months, you know, wasn't really too sure what to expect.   To come in and play the way I did on the back nine today was pretty pleasing.

Q.   I presume you couldn't have picked a better tournament to return to? 
MARCUS FRASER:   Yeah I think I've had three Top 10s here in the past and a third a couple years ago.   I love the golf course.   I wish I could take this golf course every week we play.   I think it's the best golf course we play all year, and it's just a proper golf course where you have to play well. 
You've got to stay out of trouble and you need to hole putts, which I'm pretty sure that's the way the game was designed.   Credit to the way they have turned it out this week, as well.   Probably the best condition we've ever seen, especially with the rough up.   It's pretty impressive.

Q.   What are your thoughts into the final day?   You didn't expect much but now you're right up there?
MARCUS FRASER:   I had no idea coming into the week and I've got no idea going into tomorrow.   Hopefully just go out and keep playing the way I'm playing and I feel pretty comfortable out there at the moment.   Forgotten how much fun it is to play a golf tournament, especially being in the mix, it's fun. 

Q.   What's the injury update?
MARCUS FRASER:   I pulled out of Dubai I think first week of February after the first round.   I had it since the British Open last year.   I had cortisone in the top of my hand, had shooting pain across the top of my hand, so the surgeon went in and took bone out of the top of my hand.     Got all that right and had tendonitis on the left‑hand side of my hand. 
So that was down, three months' worth of injections where they take your blood out, put you in the machine, spin the blood and inject it back into the tendon.   So that got rid of the tendonitis and then I was trying to do a bit of rehab and get back into practice and start playing again. 
Been a long process but if I can play like I did today, it's all worth it.

Q.   Do you still feel it? 
MARCUS FRASER:   Still flicks around a little bit and caries on a little bit but just more stiffness and just trying to get strength from playing golf every day.   In my practice the last few weeks, the most I've done is play three days in a row.   But this week, I've played Tuesday, played the Pro‑Am Wednesday and played obviously the last three days.   So six days in a row is going to give it a good test and then try and play again next week. 
These two weeks are pretty important to see where I'm at. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT