HONG KONG OPEN
October 17, 2014
Marcus Fraser
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MARCUS FRASER:   Yeah, not what I expected after eight months out of the game but nice to be back here first and foremost, but to be playing well is a bit of a bonus.   Yeah, nice to be back in Hong Kong.   It's a great golf course.  
   
 Q.   Feel good standing over the ball?  
MARCUS FRASER:   Feels all right.   I've been practicing last few weeks, getting back into it.   Wasn't sure what to expect but everything is going okay at the moment so hopefully there's more of that.  
I've been playing a few rounds on my home course in Melbourne but to come out on Tour and play in tournament conditions is completely different.   There's a bit of the unknown but everything is going okay at the moment.  
   
 Q.   You mentioned it, eight months, last time we saw you on The European Tour was Dubai.   What's happened in the interim?  
MARCUS FRASER:   I pulled out after the first round in Dubai.   Struggled with my hand.   Had to have a bone taken out of my hand and some tendonitis on the left‑hand side.   Three months of injections on the left side of it and hopefully now it's all sorted and we can get back into playing some good golf.   
   
 Q.   Presumably it was worrying for a while.   
MARCUS FRASER:   Yeah, not so much worrying.   Just something into had to be done.   Tried cortisone.   Started at the British Open last year.   Tried cortisone a couple times and wore off after four or five weeks.   The last resort was to have surgery and I had to go and do it.   Everything's been fine ever since.   Hopefully it holds up.  
   
 Q.   It was the back before, and that was career‑threatening.   
MARCUS FRASER:   Yeah, had a disc replaced in my neck 3 1/2 years ago.   I suppose when you don't look after yourself, you're bound to have some injuries along the way.   Just one of those things that hopefully that's the last of all these injuries.   Starting to show my age I think.  
   
 Q.   Prognosis is good, I reckon full recovery should be fine?  
MARCUS FRASER:   Yeah, the surgeons and osteo, she's happy.   So if they are all happy, I'm out here playing golf which means I'm happy.  
   
 Q.   When you find yourself in this position on a course you really enjoy into the weekend, do you start having those great ambitions once again?  
MARCUS FRASER:   Yeah, for sure.   As I said I didn't know what to expect coming here this week.   But obviously to get back to tournament golf, the idea was to come back for this tournament, because it's probably my favourite week of the year.   You know, to come back and be playing well at this tournament is always nice, because I do love it here, that's for sure.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT