WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 21, 2013
Marcus Fraser
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Obviously you must be pumped, maybe not so underestimated now?  
MARCUS FRASER:   No, it was good.   I knew it was going to be obviously a tough match.   Keegan is a major winner and Ryder Cup player, so he's used to match play.   Down the stretch he's probably one of the best in the game.   It wasn't the prettiest match.   We were probably both around level par, 1‑over maybe.   But as I said before, it's match play, you can play really well and get rolled or you can play average and hang in there.   And that's what I did today, hung in there and made a nice putt on 17, which really helped.   That was a good sort of 30‑footer down the hill.   Yeah, I just backed myself.   That was the difference.   Normally standing there pretty negative, but I stood there on the back nine and backed myself, and it was nice to come away with a win.  
   
 Q.   Your putting has always been a feature of your game.   When you were looking at about 28 feet there on 17, you're thinking, I've got this?  
MARCUS FRASER:   Absolutely.   I know I'm one of the best putters in the game.   My putting stats in Europe and Asia have proved that sort of the last 10 years.   But that's the whole idea, every time I look at a putt I try and make it, and I was lucky that that one went in.  
   
 Q.   So you'll be coming back tomorrow, obviously trying to do it again, and you've taken that first little step toward that top 50.   
MARCUS FRASER:   Yeah, sure.   That's the main goal is try and break that top 50, but you've got to play well to do that, so I've got a bit of improving to do before I tee it up tomorrow.   Hopefully we can iron a few things out.   It's not horrendous, but just a couple little sloppy shots.   But looking forward to tomorrow, that's for sure.  
   
 Q.   Obviously here in America not many guys pay attention to the guys in Europe and whatnot.   You might not be known.   But that'll probably introduce you to a few people.   Are you happy to be up in the limelight?  
MARCUS FRASER:   For sure.   You've only got to have a look at the European Tour.   Yeah, we don't play for as much money, but the fields are just as strong as the PGA TOUR.   I'm not sure of the exact record, but the Ryder Cup over the last however many, ten years or five Ryder Cups, I think Europe was in front.  
   
 Q.   Seven out of nine.   
MARCUS FRASER:   Out of 18 years, not just 10.   But Europe is just as strong as the PGA TOUR.   Yeah, we don't play for as much money, but the fields every week are strong, and it's no surprise that there's so many European players in the field this week and international players.   This week is not a PGA TOUR event, it's a world event.  
   
 Q.   What's your match play history?   
MARCUS FRASER:   As a pro, I think, I'm 3‑2‑down, won two, lost three.   As an amateur I won a New Zealand amateur, I won a state amateur in Victoria.   Never really did very well in an Australian amateur or British amateur, never played in a U.S.Amateur.   Yeah, I suppose it's around 50/50.  
   
 Q.   Your mentality, you're not phased by much, are you?  
MARCUS FRASER:   I'm probably the shortest player here this week, but that doesn't worry me.   I'm used to that.   I've been used to that for the last 11 years playing in Europe, I'm usually first to hit, so sometimes that's a good thing in match play, first to hit, try and stick one nice and close to put them under the pump.   There is a positive to being short, and I might have found it in match play today.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT