COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 24, 2013
Marcus Fraser
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MARCUS FRASER:   I played really well.   It was a little bit scrappy down the last hole but managed to scramble a par.   Overall, yeah, felt like I played pretty steady most of the day.   Made a few birdies once I got on to the back nine, which was the front nine, but yeah, pretty happy with the day.  
    It was definitely one of those courses where you need to be patient and just take your chances where you can get them.   Definitely did that on the second nine, so that was nice.  
   
 Q.   Is there a difference playing in the morning compared to the afternoon?  
    MARCUS FRASER:   Breeze got up a little bit late in the afternoon yesterday, but the weather has been unbelievable so far this week.   It normally blows a hurricane every year we come here, but the weather yesterday and today has been beautiful.   It's perfect conditions to get out there and shoot a good score.   
   
 Q.   Tend to speak to Australians at this time of the year and it's not much of a break because you're in your summer back at home; so did you get time off and refresh the batteries?   
    MARCUS FRASER:   Yeah, I had four weeks away from tournament golf, so I had three weeks where I didn't do anything apart from drink.   And then the last week before I came away, I got stuck into a little bit of practise.   
    Last week I put in a new driver, a new R1 driver and new TaylorMade ball, and straightaway have noticed a big difference and pretty comfortable using it, so it's made a big difference.   
   
 Q.   A lot of talk late of having new clubs, but these are critical clubs in your bag and you did gel with them very quickly.   
    MARCUS FRASER:   Yeah, I played nine holes on Monday last week with the new R1 driver and straightaway it went in the bag.   It was a pretty easy decision and the new ball, as well, last week was the first week of the new Lethal ball.   
    As soon as I started using it, it was straight in the bag, definitely felt like I picked up a little distance out of it, which is always a good thing, especially for someone like me that doesn't hit it too far.   
   
 Q.   You've been out here a little while and been to Qatar several times; do you have different resolutions at the start of the year, different aims?  
    MARCUS FRASER:   Yeah, lucky enough I suppose to get my World Ranking up a lot higher in the end of last year, so just knocking on the door for that Top‑50.   
    So that's obviously my goal this year is to try to break into Top‑50 and obviously being at the right time would be nice, too, end of March, gets you in the Masters and hopefully get in the Match Play, as well, in another month's time.   
    There's a lot of bonuses to getting inside that Top‑50, so this is a good week and plenty of World Ranking points to do it, so hopefully have a good weekend and get stuck into it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT