UBS HONG KONG OPEN
November 16, 2012
Marcus Fraser
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MARCUS FRASER:   Pretty ordinary, played very average today, some good stuff at the start and it just fell away at the end.   
Yeah, a bit frustrating after playing so well yesterday.   But I mean, 1‑under in those conditions and not playing well was pretty good, I suppose.   Going to go do some work now and try to sort it out.  
   
 Q.   Those conditions, meaning it's more blustery than on day one?  
MARCUS FRASER:   Yeah, it was pretty windy yesterday afternoon, but this morning it was gusting all over the shop.   Made it pretty tricky; any time you miss‑hit a shot, you paid for it pretty severely.   
The course is still playing really well, and it's such a good golf course that it needs a bit of wind as its defence.  
   
 Q.   You're in fine position, and you can't see the leaders moving away much?   
MARCUS FRASER:   Yeah, if the wind stays up, I don't think anyone is going to shoot a really low score, but the last time I said that, someone did.   Probably just helped someone out there.   
Yeah, it's pretty tricky to get that breeze right, and the greens are pretty small and it's just a great golf course.   
   
 Q.   Your thoughts on the Asian Tour's Order of Merit, as well as the tournament itself?  
MARCUS FRASER:   Yeah, for sure, there are a lot of things running through my mind at the moment, World Rankings and that sort of stuff, Asian Tour Order of Merit, Top‑30 in Europe which gets into The Open next year.   A lot to play for this week.   Got to keep my head down and keep firing away.  
   
 Q.   In terms of The Order of Merit, you were commanding it for so long and then it changed recently.   
MARCUS FRASER:   I don't know about for so long, but it was probably a month or so a couple of months, where I was in front.   But Thaworn won in India for the third win this year; he's having a great year and deserves to be well out in front.  
   
 Q.   In terms of the rankings, is it something that you've looked at the permutations of what could possibly happen?   
MARCUS FRASER:   For sure, as far as World Rankings, trying to get close to that Top‑50, obviously gets you quite a bit for next year, so if I play well, keep doing the right things, I have a chance to do it.   But there's a long way to go before that happens.   It's always in the back of your mind, but have to play your golf at the same time.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT