BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 24, 2012
Marcus Fraser
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MARCUS FRASER:   It was such a tough hole, 18, for me, with that breeze.   It was a struggle to get home at the start of the playoff.   I hit a really good drive up there the last playoff hole, good second shot but the wind just didn't touch it.   Then the first putt missed and, yeah, just a little bubble on the second putt and unfortunately we are out of there. 
It was good fun.   Danny is such a great guy and he's an awesome player.   It's the first of many tournaments for him, that's for sure.   It was nice to have a chance but unfortunately I couldn't do it. 
But it's the same old story.   Keep giving myself chances, and one day it might happen eventually.   You know, it's got to happen soon, because I'm running out of patience. 

Q.   Don't be too hard on yourself.   It has happened.   You've already won a couple of times and that's the first time he's ever won, which is something we ought to applaud. 
MARCUS FRASER:   For sure.   As I said before, he's a great player and he's going to be a future star on The European Tour, there's no question about it. 
I've got to be pleased with the week.   I played really well, three out of the four days and managed to make a few putts.   You know, it's just the way this game goes sometimes.   You have to cup it on the chin and get ready for the next week. 

Q.   I know we touched on this earlier in the week but in Sweden you had said how rubbish you had been for far too long and suddenly you had a good finish and now you've had a very good finish. 
MARCUS FRASER:   It felt so far away at Wentworth and Wales, and all of a sudden something just clicked in Sweden and felt like I played well. 
I had a good week off with the family last week, and you know, felt really comfortable here this week.   It's a golf course that suits me.   You have to drive it pretty straight and get the putter going, which I managed to do most of the week.   If you had given me second at the start of the week, I would have taken it, so I can't be too disappointed. 

Q.   And you've made the man on the bag very happy, having Gerry Byrne with you for the first time?
MARCUS FRASER:   Yeah, first time.   He's great, good fun out on the golf course.   My previous caddie, Mick Donaghy, we finished up before this week but he's got to probably take a lot of the credit for the way I played this week.   He taught me a lot over the last 12 months, so it was good to have someone different on the bag but Mick did teach me a lot of things and about myself in the last 12, 18 months.   He's got to take some of the credit as well. 

Q.   And Gerry's final words to you, "Always next week," Irish Open. 
MARCUS FRASER:   Yeah, I haven't played the course but I'm sure it's a beautiful golf course and looking forward to getting up there.   But get home tonight to London and got the qualifier tomorrow at Sunningdale for The Open.   Hopefully we can sneak through there and make an extra week.

Q.   In this run of form you should be confident ahead of Sunningdale.   I know a lot can happen but you should be in a good mood?
MARCUS FRASER:   For sure.   I'm feeling more and more comfortable that I'm playing and Sunningdale is a course that should suit me.   Hopefully have a lot of fun and we can scrape through. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT