BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 23, 2012
Marcus Fraser
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MARCUS FRASER:   It was good.   I played really well at the start and gave myself a lot of chances.   Missed a couple of putts but overall pretty happy.   Made a couple of good par saves and scrambled pretty well from the start of the back nine and managed to birdie the last which capped off a good day.  
   
 Q.   In windy conditions once again?   
MARCUS FRASER:   Yeah, probably not quite as strong but still pretty tricky.   Everything seems to be a cross‑breeze; you're either trying to hold it up or let it ride on the breeze.   It's pretty tricky out there.   It's playing pretty tough.  
   
 Q.   Of course you were leading after day one, fell back just that little bit and you're right in the mix again aren't you?  
MARCUS FRASER:   Yesterday was good in my mind that I didn't put myself out of the tournament, because I didn't play great, and could have quite easily been well back but made a few putts and stayed in there.   Today played well and got back into it.   So it was a good day.  
   
 Q.   So what was that feeling at the end of day two?   Frustration?   Or the realisation that you were still involved?  
MARCUS FRASER:   Both, yeah.   I was frustrated I didn't play well and I just got off to a poor start.   I think I bogeyed three of the first four or five holes.   That was annoying, but played fairly steady.   Didn't hit it close enough and made a few par saves through yesterday.   You know, it's just good to stay within reach.   
   
 Q.   I'm sure I'm asking the obvious but this course must play so differently depending on the weather.   
MARCUS FRASER:   Obviously makes it a lot easier without the breeze, but the breeze is a cross breeze the last two days, so just makes hitting the fairway so hard.   You need to hit fairways around here to give yourself a chance to hit these greens.   
That's why I think the scores have come back a little bit the last couple of days because everything is a cross‑breeze on most holes.  
   
 Q.   I take it you've seen time out to see Australia dominant in the rugby, as well as Black Caviar dominant at Royal Ascot?  
MARCUS FRASER:   Yeah, I just watched Black Caviar's race but no interest in the rugby.   Aussie Rules are my team, won today, so I'm a happy man.   I couldn't tell you who was playing in the rugby.  
   
 Q.   And football here?  
MARCUS FRASER:   Be a good game tonight.   Hopefully I win.   Otherwise I'll watch the Euro Cup and that sort of stuff.   Any sport for me is good.   That will be good and hopefully watch that tonight.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT