BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 21, 2012
Marcus Fraser
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MARCUS FRASER:   It's great.   Played really well.   Drove the ball really straight.   Only missed one fairway.   Any time you do that, you're going to give yourself plenty of chances.   Especially the course, the way it's set up at the moment, it's quite soft because of the rain yesterday.   The greens were nice this morning and managed to make a few putts and especially a few at the end, which was great.  
   
 Q.   Blistering finish, five birdies in six holes,  
MARCUS FRASER:   Yeah, and on 17, I just missed the left edge, as well, so could have been six.   But that's always the story; we're never happy.   Played really well and gave myself a lot of chances.   It was nice to roll a few in.  
   
 Q.   The one on the last certainly did roll in from a huge distance.   
MARCUS FRASER:   Yeah, I think a good 35, 45 feet.   Had a couple of those today, so hopefully that continues for the rest of the week.  
   
 Q.   We spoke in Sweden, you had a good finish there, and yet you said you had been playing rubbish, what was it that turned the corner?  
MARCUS FRASER:   Back to a few basics, quick chat to the coach again and sorted it all out.   Always go back to bad habits and try and fix those, and normally my game improves so hopefully it continues to do that.   
I felt really comfortable today which I didn't for those three weeks for Wentworth and Sweden, I didn't feel comfortable at all.   But that felt pretty comfortable on the course and it was nice to roll in a few putts to go with it, and it all adds up to 64.  
   
 Q.   Silly game, isn't it, because you're just doing nothing wrong particularly and then suddenly it just clicks into place?  
MARCUS FRASER:   Yeah, I think that's why we are all so addicted to it and it's such a great game.   We just keep coming back for more regardless.   No matter how bad it is or how good it is, you always are pretty keen to get here the next day and work it all out.   Luckily today was one of those days where it went right.  
   
 Q.   Maybe a cyclical thing, but what is it with Australian golf?   There has not been one around the world this season?  
MARCUS FRASER:   Yeah, hopefully that will change in the future, I'm sure it will, there's a lot of great players obviously playing over in the States and good players here playing in Europe.   So hopefully it's not too far around the corner.  
   
 Q.   Do you get questioned about that from people at home?  
MARCUS FRASER:   Not really, only when it builds up like it is as the moment but probably gathering momentum.   One of those things, a few years ago, everyone was just accustomed to a lot of the guys winning in America.   Has not been that way, but I'm sure it's not too far away with the quality of players they have over there.   
   
 Q.   And a win for yourself, hopefully doesn't seem too far away?  
MARCUS FRASER:   Hopefully yes, towards the end of last year, felt like everything took a turn for the better and heading in the right direction.   So if you keep giving yourself a chance you never know when it might happen.   Just have to keep practising and playing hard and hopefully it will happen sooner rather than later.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT