BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
April 29, 2012
Marcus Fraser
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Thoughts on the day?  
MARCUS FRASER:   Frustrating.   Felt like I played okay at the start, and made a few putts for par, but every time I had a chance for birdies, couldn't seem to get one in and that was the story for the weekend.   
I think I made just six birdies for the weekend, two bogeys.   Frustrating; had a lot of chances yesterday and a few chances today but didn't take them.   I think I played the par 5s in 1‑under for the weekend.   Going to finish seven shots behind, and with the par 5s, that's the majority of it right there.   
But to finish third in a European Tour event is never a bad thing, but still frustrating.  
   
 Q.   Vital to bounce back as you did at the last?   
MARCUS FRASER:   Yeah, I thought I hit a pretty good tee shot.   It just drifted a little bit and caught the very top of the trap and rolled back in and was pretty tight up to the lip.   Hit the lip coming out and then the next putt, thought I made the putt and somehow found a way to miss the hole.   
A good putt at the last to go from a tie a lot of guys to tie with one other guy.   Now three weeks off and get ready for Wentworth.   
   
 Q.   Did you still fancy a chance on the final day?   
MARCUS FRASER:   I mean, I did, yeah, for sure.   I thought if I could play the front nine in 4‑ or 5‑under, I thought there was a big chance.   
Like I say, I played well enough to do that, but putts just kept rolling past the hole and I was just about to give it the bird at one point but thought better of it.   It's one of those games, and some days you stand there and you can't miss, and some days you can't hole it.   Unfortunately this game is like that.   The game feels great, so I can't be too disappointed.  
   
 Q.   And two days with Bernd Wiesberger; impressive?  
MARCUS FRASER:   Yeah, I said just now, get used to that because you're going to do that quite a bit.   He's as impressive a golfer as I've ever seen.   If he keeps working on the right things and doing what he's doing, he's obviously got a great support team around him and he can do onto do whatever he wants.     
He's got so much game:   A guy that size and hits it that far and still putts unbelievably, you don't see that too often.   He's got massive things ahead of him and wish him all the best.   And he's an absolute gentleman on the course.   It was great fun being out there and watching it.   It was pretty cool.   
   
 Q.   And down to mentality, as well, didn't lose his head with a five‑stroke lead?  
MARCUS FRASER:   Yeah, 12 months ago he would probably be the first to admit he would lose the head.   But he was unbelievable; he was so cool and calm, and all the credit to the people that helped him to get to where he is now.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT