BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
April 28, 2012
Marcus Fraser
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MARCUS FRASER:   Felt really comfortable out there.   On the front nine, flushed it.   Hit a lot of good shots inside 20 feet, inside 15 feet and just couldn't get anything going.   Hit putts where I was wanting to hit them.   But they just weren't taking the break.   
Made a couple of birdies on the back nine, and made a couple of silly errors on the back nine late, but a couple ordinary putts and one bogey and one par, but good birdie at the last.   3‑under is still a pretty good score.   
Felt like I was playing chasing out there most of the day and trying to keep up.   Bernd is playing great; so much game and definitely a star of The European Tour to come.   He's obviously a great player now but he's got big things in front of them, that's for sure.   
   
 Q.   Yours is a good score and you look at the board and see your mark, and think, that's very respectable, but he's so far ahead.   
MARCUS FRASER:   Yeah, and it reflects the way he's playing.   He played great here and gives himself a chance on every hole and he's a great putter, as well.   
I said before, if I was a betting man, I would put the house on him.   He's just played so well and looks very comfortable.   Him and his caddie, Shane, do a great job, and they work really well together.   So they do a good job.  
   
 Q.   Is that frustrating, irritating for you, when you're out there playing alongside and knowing you're not making headway?  
MARCUS FRASER:   At the same time, I couldn't really do too much more.   I played great on the front nine and could have turned 6‑ or 7‑under the front nine the way I played but only turned 1‑under.   Some days they don't go in and some days they do.   Unfortunately today they didn't.   
You know, not getting much out of my round and I shoot 3‑under, I've still got to be happy with that.   Can't do much more.   
   
 Q.   Take it on the chin and go again tomorrow?   
MARCUS FRASER:   Yeah, my old man always said to me, just cup it on the chin and move on.   Definitely got to do that today and hopefully tomorrow, if I keep playing the way I'm playing, I've got a low score in me so hopefully I can do that tomorrow.   
The greens are perfect, so it's just a matter of getting the right read, hitting some good putts, and they will go in if you hit on the right behind.   Hopefully they decide to go in tomorrow instead of hitting the hole and bouncing out.   That's the way it is.   That's golf.   
   
 Q.   Anything you can do to influence that, or is it just a matter of fortunes?   
MARCUS FRASER:   No, just go and do my putting drills now, and go back and sit on my bum for the rest of the night and watch a bit of footy which I like to do.   Just keep doing my drills, I know they are the right drills to do, so hopefully tomorrow they drop.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT