BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
April 27, 2012
Marcus Fraser
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  SCOTT CROCKETT:   Marcus, thanks for coming in and joining us, as always, very well played today, excellent effort, puts you in the lead.   Just give us your thoughts on today and your position in the tournament.
MARCUS FRASER:   Yeah, very happy with the first two days.   Obviously yesterday was very windy.   Pretty tricky for everybody.   I thought it was pretty fair over the course of the day. 
And then today was completely different.   You know, we basically had no wind for most of the day and then sort of kicked up a little bit over the last maybe five, six holes.   But yeah, overall, very happy and very pleased with the way it's going at the moment. 
SCOTT CROCKETT:   You won in Jeju in 2010 and obviously played quite well last year, what is it about Ballantine's and Korea that inspires you? 
MARCUS FRASER:   It's obviously just the alcohol; can't really survive without it.   (Laughter).
No, it's obviously one of our premiere events now on The European Tour, and Ballantine's have been such a great sponsor and product.   We have a great venue this year, same course as last year, and I think the brand, Ballantine's suits very well with the exclusive club, and it's just a great week and somewhere I love coming back. 
SCOTT CROCKETT:   Not a single five on your card.   Is the conquering of the par 5s the key today? 
MARCUS FRASER:   Yeah, for sure, they are all‑‑ I think apart from one or two, they are all fairly reachable.   Wedge game was great today.   Every time I couldn't get home, I managed to wedge it in there pretty close. 
Maybe first time I haven't had a five on my card.   Yeah, it's nice, I noticed that when I was signing my card.   I didn't realize, but yeah, it's nice when that does happen. 

Q.   So right now with about three shots' difference, you're in the lead.   For the next two rounds, will you make your game a stable game or will you be aggressive in your approach?
MARCUS FRASER:   Yeah, just basically more of the same.   I feel like I've played pretty steady.   Just kept the ball in play and got it on the fairway and got it on the green and managed to make a couple of putts.   And I think that's the key out here is just to keep the ball in play and give yourself a chance. 

Q.   So I was wondering about the heart on your hat. 
MARCUS FRASER:   Yeah, it's a marketing campaign that TaylorMade, my sponsor have that basically, "driver love," you love your driver, and so far this week, I do.   So you know, it's quite a big marketing campaign that they have around the world, and last week and this week we are targeting Asia.   So pretty important. 

Q.   Fantastic two opening rounds, carry on from last week in the Volvo China Open.   Did you feel that way coming in? 
MARCUS FRASER:   Yeah, for sure, I played great the past week.   I felt like it was just around the corner to keep playing well.   Played pretty good yesterday in the pretty tricky wind and then played great today.   Just missed a couple of putts coming home.   Yeah, it's as good of golf as I played today, so it was nice. 

Q.   What do you think the key to this golf course is? 
MARCUS FRASER:   Just keep it in play.   Same old sort of story.   Get it in the fairway, give yourself a chance on the greens, and the greens are rolling pretty pure.   So you know, you give yourself plenty of chances, you're going to shoot a good score.

Q.   What's your game plan as far as going out there?   Looks like you're going to have the lead overnight?
MARCUS FRASER:   Like you said, probably a bit of a plodder of a golfer, so I just plod along and try to give myself plenty of chances.   Normally a pretty good putter, so hopefully give myself a few chances and roll a few in over the weekend would be nice. 

Q.   Yesterday you shot a 1‑under par 71 under quite tough playing conditions.   Tell us about yesterday. 
MARCUS FRASER:   Yeah, it was brutal yesterday.   So far the scoring, I think 4‑under was the best score by two shots.   So it's not very often that happens on The European Tour. 
It was pretty tricky and you just have to be pretty patient out there yesterday.   A little bit different today. 

Q.   An excellent 67 second round today.   Seems like you're still continuing to play as well as you did last week?
MARCUS FRASER:   I played great last week, so it's nice to be able to take it into a second week in a row, and hopefully we can keep doing it over the weekend and give myself a chance.   Feeling really good with the game at the moment so hopefully continue that. 

Q.   Is there any special thing on this course, scoring‑wise, despite of the wind that you think players have to be aware of? 
MARCUS FRASER:   Yeah, I think you've just got to drive it pretty straight.   That pretty much sets up the hole.   The greens are pretty tricky.   You've got to give yourself a chance to get on the right level of the greens where the flag is, and you know, it's just driving is the key.   I think keep it in play and sort of sets up for a good golf course. 

Q.   So this afternoon, lunch and practise? 
MARCUS FRASER:   Lunch, a few putts and as little practise as possible and go back and watch more Aussie Rules Football tonight.   I'll be parked in front of the computer most of the night watching that. 

Q.   How do you reflect on two days? 
MARCUS FRASER:   Yeah, good.   Felt good last week and pretty comfortable about my game last week and it's nice to be able to take it into this week. 
Played great today.   Gave myself plenty of chances out there, and you know, it's just a shame I missed a few putts on the last probably six or seven holes, which was a bit frustrating.   I hit pretty good putts, but they just didn't go in.   I gave myself chances all day long basically so I can't complain about that. 

Q.   Plenty of differences in terms of conditions for the two days but both are equally good rounds I think. 
MARCUS FRASER:   Yeah, for sure.   I think yesterday was probably five shots harder than today.   I felt like I played pretty good yesterday, and then to be able to come out in different conditions and still play well, I thought it was good. 

Q.   We spoke in advance of the tournament, you are looking forward to coming back.   Does not always map out as you hope; I take it this week is. 
MARCUS FRASER:   Sure, I always love going back to Ballantine's.   Formed a pretty good relationship with most of the guys at Ballantine's now, and obviously winning in 2010, it's obviously something that's pretty special to me.   So I love coming back here.   It's a great golf course, a great sponsor, and it all fits in and works well together.   So, it's nice. 

Q.   You are seeing in golf course in a different light. 
MARCUS FRASER:   Yeah, for sure.   Played well here last year, so I felt like it suited me.   We had a bit of everything last year, it was cold, wet and windy.   And yesterday was windy and cold, and then today, got the jumpers off.   So a nice change. 

Q.   It's a beautiful place, as well. 
MARCUS FRASER:   Yeah, some of those views out there are beautiful.   Very mountainous country and I think they have done a great job fitting a golf course into quite a hilly bit of land.   It's one of the best courses I think we play on Tour, so, it's nice. 

Q.   You must have a mountainous collection of bottles from Ballantine's. 
MARCUS FRASER:   I've got a few, it's nice.   They looked after me after I won, and developed quite the taste for it now.   I'm not sure if it's a good thing or a bad thing, but I'm sure it is.   It's a pretty impressive product, so I'm getting quite accustomed to it. 

Q.   Your caddie seemed thrilled with the 17 Year Old he got today?
MARCUS FRASER:   Yeah, he yelled out "Whisky!!" as soon as the ball disappeared in the hole.   I just assumed he was going to claim it, so I didn't get much of a say in that.   Yeah, he's been great, it's the least I can do is give him a bottle of whisky now and then to shut him up. 

Q.   I hear you've been keeping yourself busy in the evening. 
MARCUS FRASER:   Yeah, Aussie Rules Football started.   My team lost by a point on Wednesday and I was gutted about that.   But another couple of teams play tonight and six or seven games over the weekend, so I'm going to be busy at night which will be nice. 

Q.   Keeps the mind off golf. 
MARCUS FRASER:   Yeah, exactly, good way to be I think. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT