UBS HONG KONG OPEN
December 2, 2011
Marcus Fraser
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MARCUS FRASER:     I played pretty ordinary actually, just had a hot putter.   Riding that from last week.   Yeah, hopefully we can find a bit of form over the weekend and get amongst it.   
   
 Q.   Getting out of trouble on the greens?   
MARCUS FRASER:   Yeah, it's nice when you just keep‑‑ I had a lot of putts inside ten feet that managed to go in, so hopefully that continues.  
   
 Q.   Tricky conditions, on the first day in particular, a little bit flatter, calmer today?  
MARCUS FRASER:   It's a bit quieter this morning, and freezing when we hit off.   The course is playing a lot different than what it did last year.   Sort of no rough and a little bit softer last year, bouncing a little bit, and I think the scores proved that it is playing a little bit tougher.  
   
 Q.   You do stand here in short sleeves now, but first thing this morning, you must have got here when it was still dark?  
MARCUS FRASER:   Yeah, I had a beanie ready for this morning.   I didn't have to use it.   Very close.   It was pretty cold, I reckon it was probably 10,11 degrees when we played, so after the last three weeks of being in Singapore, Johor and Coolum in Australia, felt pretty cold this morning.  
   
 Q.   Reflect on last week, and wonderful to get into a playoff and have that victory chance?  
MARCUS FRASER:   Yeah, it was a bit of a roller coaster week, playing great the first two days, and then I think I was leading by two after two rounds and then played awful on Saturday and holed everything to shoot 2‑over.   
So I managed to stay in the tournament, and didn't get off to a great start Sunday and then played great down the stretch and I think I was 3‑under the last seven holes to get into a playoff.   Then hit a poor tee hot in the playoff, but a bit of a bonus after laying an absolute bomb on 18 to get into the playoff.  
It was a good, exciting week, and after the start of the year, everything going on with my neck, I'll take anything at the moment.   So it was good fun.   
   
 Q.   Well, you were thrilled to get back and play at the Ballantine's, so that's a lot of water under the bridge since then but presumably coming this close, at least you know you're back?  
MARCUS FRASER:   Yeah, for sure.   A lot of my golf last week was great, the first two days was as good of golf as I played in a long time and in the weekend I didn't play great but managed to stay in the tournament.   That's a big positive I think and hopefully going to get it moving in the right direction this week over the weekend, and, you know, keep holing a few putts, and you never know.   
   
 Q.   I guess similarities, because even if you say it's fairly ordinary, you're still in the tournament and in a nice place?  
MARCUS FRASER:   Yeah, exactly, by far have not played anywhere near my best golf the last two days so hopefully we can find the clubface and hit a few more greens and keep rolling putts.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT