BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 29, 2011
Marcus Fraser
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MARCUS FRASER: It was great. I played really well all week. It was just the 9th hole that gave me a bit of grieve. I think I was 6-over for the week and hit a par today, say no more with that one.  
 I played really well. It was great to come out today and play well on a Sunday at Wentworth. It's obviously a big confident boost more than anything. Everything went right today and apart from a couple of bogeys on the back nine, but overall, very happy. I played really, really well today.  
  
  Q. It did look like just about every day you were getting it going and slipping back, and then today, four birdies in a row, you're suddenly right in contention?  
 MARCUS FRASER: That's all right. Played pretty steady at the start and managed to make four in a row from nowhere, and obviously to get off to a about start around here is so important, we say that every year, but very pleasing to put a round together.  
  
  Q. What were your thoughts at the start of today? You probably were aware that Simon Khan came from seven back last year.   
 MARCUS FRASER: Still definitely in the tournament. I thought anything can happen out here, it's such a brutal course now, if you are just a little bit off, you pay the penalty, which I found out on the 9th hole all week. It's one of those courses, that, yeah, a couple little tweaks here and there, and it's fantastic. Obviously a big challenge and doesn't hurt us for one or two weeks a year to make us work for it.  
 A couple little things here and there, but it's good fun.  
  
  Q. And it has tended to be a course where you've done well on in the past?  
 MARCUS FRASER: I played well previously before the greens were done, and sort of messed it up a little bit on Sunday. But you know, it's just nice to come out and play well on Sunday. At the start of my career, I didn't do that very well and I was hopefully getting a little bit wiser now, to start being a little more patient and starting to work it out a little bit.  
  
  Q. You set a lovely and formidable target. Do you fancy winning from here?   
 MARCUS FRASER: I think the three bogeys hurt me on the back nine. I think four, possibly five, the two par 5s to finish with, and 17 is downbreeze, and 18 is not easy, but anything is possible. We'll wait and see. But I think maybe a couple shy.   
  
  Q. Come what may, the best since you've returned?  
 MARCUS FRASER: Yeah, exactly. Thinking I would never play golf again, and to be back in this position, can't get the smile off my face, so very happy.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT