UBS HONG KONG OPEN
November 20, 2010
Marcus Fraser
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  Third Round 67. 12-Under Total. 198  
   
  Q. 67 today, must have been pleased with that?  
 MARCUS FRASER: Yeah, I didn't get off to a great start. I bogeyed the first and the fifth, but I hit a couple of birdies in between so level through five.  
 Towards the end of the round, I felt like I played really well and had a couple of big lipouts on 16 and 17, which is a bit frustrating. But overall, you know, it was a good day. I felt like I started to play really well again on the back nine so it was nice.  
  
  Q. You must be happy -- it's nice to be on top of your game and having a run, isn't it.   
 MARCUS FRASER: Yeah, for sure. I haven't been in contention for -- I suppose Ballantine's or thereabout. I think I'm too far back to have a chance tomorrow.   
 The guys in front, the calibre of players that they are and out in front, they will be pretty hard to catch. I think I probably need to be 15- or 16-under to have some sort of a chance and shoot a really low one tomorrow. I'll just go out there tomorrow and try to shoot as low a round as I can and see what happens at the end of the day.  
  
  Q. Has the course changed much over the week?  
 MARCUS FRASER: Yeah, fairways got a little bit firmer but the greens get a little bit more bounce in them but not too much. It would be nice to get a little more there. They have to keep them still playable.   
 It's just a little bit on the soft side still, but course is great. It's playing nice and setting up for a good final day.  
  
  Q. Try to be aggressive, get it going tomorrow?  
 MARCUS FRASER: Might as well. As I said before, too much ground to make up. Just going to go out there and try to shoot as low a score as I can and count them all up at the end of the day.  
  
  Q. When you look at some guys, 60, 61, do you think, why not me, as well?  
 MARCUS FRASER: Yeah, I had a chance yesterday. No one is ever happy with their rounds but I shot 63 yesterday and there was still quite a few putts that burnt the edge so you're going to have those every day. Just got to try to make the ones when you can.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT