ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 4, 2018
Marcus Fraser
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. We know how tough this golf course is, especially when the wind is up like that, to come in at 4-under you must be happy?
MARCUS FRASER: Yeah, over the moon.  I just sort of stuck it out most of the day and waited for the putts to drop and at the end I made a couple of good par saves.  A nice long one at the end from about 30 feet.  It's brutal out there.  Doesn't really matter if it's into the wind or downwind, and then you get the cross-breeze off 8 and 9.  Yeah, it played -- that's as strong as I've played the golf course I think.
Q. How much did the front nine give you confidence?
MARCUS FRASER: I think 12 and 14, they are not gimmie birdies but they are definitely probably the easy ones out there.  You've still got to go out and just keep it in play and you're going to get rewarded.  On Carnoustie, it's hard to keep it in play sometimes.  It's pretty tight out there, and all the bunkers are just in the perfect spot.  Just got to try and avoid those, and luckily enough I avoided all of them apart from one.  It was a good day.
Q. Golf course is so tough when you have the wind up and you're going backwards and forwards.  How do you adapt to that as you go around?
MARCUS FRASER: It's tricky.  I think into the breeze, you probably prefer it almost playing into the breeze because you sort of know what it's going to do.
But downbreeze, and you get a little firm bounce, it can just take off, a 5-iron on 16, I've hit driver there before and it probably would have got pin-high and that was playing about 235 metres.  For me, that's not even close to where it should be normally.  It's really tricky to judge and you've just got a couple of bounces that you get.
Q. The Dunhill, it's always a favourite event of the players, as well.  You must enjoy it.
MARCUS FRASER: Absolutely.  The more you play this tournament, the more you fall in love with it.  A lot of other people have tried to emulate this tournament and copy it, but those haven't got close.  I think when you're playing on these three golf courses with the amateurs that we get to play with, it's an amazing event.  I just love playing it every year.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT