BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
April 24, 2010
Marcus Fraser
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   STEVE TODD: Marcus, been a difficult week, really, with the delays and the called-off day yesterday but after 65 the other day, how pleased were you with the round today?   
 MARCUS FRASER: Very happy. I played really well. Just didn't make a couple of putts through the start of the round, probably the front nine, but you know, I made a couple good birdies towards the end of the round and felt like I played just as well as I did on Thursday. But it was just very tough conditions out there.   
 So I think 2-under was a pretty good score today.   
  
  Q. I think anything under par is a good score today. How tough were the conditions?   
 MARCUS FRASER: Just so gusty. It was windy most of the day but a couple of times it dropped and came back and was just hard to judge shots coming into the green. You know, it's a bit flukey, really, but managed to try to hit plenty of greens and holed a few putts when I had to.  
 STEVE TODD: A different proposition after two rounds going in clubhouse leader into the final round.  
 MARCUS FRASER: Yeah, for sure, it is a bit strange and knowing that it's only a 54-hole tournament, but I've got to go out there and give it my best shot and just keep playing well, and if the outcome works in my favour, so be it.  
 STEVE TODD: In conditions like today, how important is scrambling and saving par? You had a run of I think about 12 in a row, pars there.   
 MARCUS FRASER: Sure, I had a couple, I think I was just pretty steady. I had a couple of good birdie chances but didn't manage to make them. I was just trying to plod along and make pars. Par is a good score on most of the holes out there. It's very tricky and managed to get a couple birdies toward the end.  
  
  Q. A rare thing, a full day off during the tournament yesterday, maybe talk us through what you did?  
 MARCUS FRASER: Yeah, I had a pretty crazy sort of morning. I came out to the course about eleven o'clock and did some practise and putting. I had some physio and yeah, just went back and listened to the Aussie football last night, so always nice to listen to a game of that. Not too often we get to listen to that when we are away.   
 Yeah, just very strange midway through a tournament not to be out there playing, but managed to get some practise done and that was that.  
  
  Q. Is it difficult then to keep the concentration and momentum going?  
 MARCUS FRASER: Yeah, a little strange. Today it actually felt like we were starting the tournament. It was a very strange sort of feeling, but you have to adapt to all of these things if we are going to be doing what we are doing.   
  
  Q. A few missed chances?   
 MARCUS FRASER: Yeah, 16, I hit it -- I had about a seven- or eight-foot putt for birdie and I missed it.   
 18, hit it to about ten feet and didn't make that one.   
 On the third, I hit it to about six, seven feet again. Didn't make that.   
 Then lipped-out on the fourth hole and managed to birdie 5 and 6, and then on No. 8, probably the best shot I hit all day, and came up short in the bunker and didn't get up-and-down.   
 So that was my only bogey for the day. But other than that, it felt like I played really well.   
  
  Q. And was 4, the greens --  
 MARCUS FRASER: That was on 7 I think. I thought I had that one. I was a bit unlucky to stay on the hill. I think if it had rolled back down, it would have been close but they are the breaks you get.   
  
  Q. You spoke about the conditions, you were at the course yesterday; how different can you compare between yesterday and today?  
 MARCUS FRASER: I think when I came out and practised a bit yesterday, it was pretty windy yesterday. It was just as windy today I thought, maybe a little bit warmer today than anything.   
 But you know, no question, the first day we had perfect weather to play in. So easily without question we had the best side of the draw.   
 But you know, what goes around comes around. I can think of a lot of times I haven't been on the right side of the draw and you just have to make due with what you've got and that's the way it goes.  
 STEVE TODD: Having come yesterday and seen the wind, I think the wind is actually the same today; did you have a score in mind what you thought might be a good score today?   
 MARCUS FRASER: Yeah, I thought -- I didn't really have a number in my mind. Anything under par was pretty good golf. I think just got to go out there and hit plenty of greens and try and take your chances when they come and managed to do that a little bit at a time today.   
 STEVE TODD: Thanks a lot.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT