BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
April 22, 2010
Marcus Fraser
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   STEVE TODD: Marcus, many thanks for coming in. We know it's been a long day so we appreciate your time. Fantastic start there. Must be difficult given the six hours we spent backwards and forwards.   
 MARCUS FRASER: I mean, when we walked on to the tee this morning, I think we walked on about five to 7.00, we were hitting off at 7.00, and by the time it was time to go at 7.00:00, you couldn't see 40, 50 yards in front of you. But then it sort of kept happening, but it's out of our control.   
 STEVE TODD: So no bogeys today, how pleased were you with that?   
 MARCUS FRASER: Yeah, very pleased. I feel like I drove it very well and putted really well. Gave myself a lot of chances on the greens and managed to make a few.   
 STEVE TODD: Any particular highlights out of the seven birdies?   
 MARCUS FRASER: Probably long putt on No. 8, holed about a 35-foot putt there. So that sort of kept the round going, and managed to get a few more throughout the round.   
 STEVE TODD: Given your form at the moment, did you feel that round was there, or was it a bit unexpected for you.  
 MARCUS FRASER: Well, I've just had five weeks off back in Melbourne at home, and then -- I mean, I felt like I played really well last week in China, but I didn't putt very well.   
 So it felt like it was very close and I felt like I practised really well at the start of the week, so I was sort of hoping for a good one to get going.   
  
  Q. You didn't have any sub-70 round last week, was it today putts just went in or was there anything else that was different?  
 MARCUS FRASER: Yeah, it was just basically the putter. I managed to make some putts, instead of walking up and tapping them in from a future, they managed to go in it's a much better feeling than just sliding by the hole all the time, that's for sure. That was the biggest difference, for sure.   
  
  Q. Playing alongside Mark, you were both getting the birdies and keeping each other going, is that key or does that help keep you going, as well?   
 MARCUS FRASER: For sure, Mark got off to a great start so I just tried to keep up. Yeah, we managed to just sort of keep making a few birdies through the round and we sort of kept managing to pull each other along before.   
  
  Q. So on a day like today, we had to stop twice and I think especially you need very strong concentration and ability to concentrate and you didn't make any bogeys, so what was the secret behind your success today?   
 MARCUS FRASER: I have no idea to be honest with you. But yeah, it's just one of those days where I felt like I did a lot of things right, and you know, managed to make a few putts when I had to. You know, it's nice when rounds turn out that way. It would be nice if you could play like that all the time.   
  
  Q. So I think today we had very cold weather and there was the fog, so if you could tell us what your feelings are or impressions are about Jeju Island's weather and did that affect the weather -- did weather affect your game?  
 MARCUS FRASER: Yeah, the fog obviously we couldn't do anything about the fog. But the conditions were perfect out there most of the day. It got a little bit cold probably the last three or four holes, but apart from that, we were quite happy with the draw that we got; that it's not too often that you get it dead still, dead calm around here, after last year, it blew a gale. So we are more than happy to get the draw that we have had I think.   
 STEVE TODD: Thank you, Marcus. Good luck for tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT