OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 5, 2010
Marcus Fraser
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How good was that?   
 MARCUS FRASER: Good. I played great. Weigh pleasing, drove it really well. Put in a new driver this week, new TaylorMade driver, R9 Super. It's great. It was the straightest I've ever hit it off the tee. It was nice little change from last week. So it was a good move putting in, new ball, all that sort of stuff, so very happy.  
  
  Q. That's saying something, straightest ever?  
 MARCUS FRASER: For sure, I think I missed four today, which around here is pretty good, it was very pleasing.  
  
  Q. I take it that is the major difference?  
 MARCUS FRASER: Yeah, I felt like I played pretty good the first week in Abu Dhabi, just didn't make the putts. Played average last week, and then just knuckled down this week and it's going well.   
 Here you miss the fairway, you're lucky to get it on the green. Very happy.  
  
  Q. What do you make much conditions and overall scoring?  
 MARCUS FRASER: Thought we were going to get wet after four or five holes, but yesterday was pretty brutal with the wind and dust and everything. Today feels like a pretty good day for scoring, so I think you'll see some good scores.   
  
  Q. You're in fine position?  
 MARCUS FRASER: Sure. If I can keep driving it as well as I have been, I'll be right there.  
  
  Q. Probably not much of a winter for you, you go home to the sunshine?  
 MARCUS FRASER: Yeah, I think our winter is in July or something like that when we are not there. It was about 40 degrees every day, so a little bit different.  
  
  Q. Any downtime?   
 MARCUS FRASER: Yeah, we had a week's holiday with my little boy and went to the beach. Didn't spend too much time at home, so back at my parents' place and her parents' place, just trying to hang out with the little man. He rules the house now. So whatever he wants to do, that's what we do.   
  
  Q. I bet it's quite a drag for you to come away.   
 MARCUS FRASER: It's not easy being away from him but my caddie has a three-month old girl so that's all we're doing is talking about nappies on every hole. We used to talk about a lot different things than that, but that's changed a bit.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT