UBS HONG KONG OPEN
November 21, 2008
Marcus Fraser
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Tell us about a good day.
 MARCUS FRASER: That was good. I didn't play very well today. I only had 23 putts, so it was pretty nice out there. Played really well the first day, so hopefully can combine the two and do it on the weekend.

 Q. A nice way to get yourself out of trouble? 
 MARCUS FRASER: Yeah, I hit a couple of pretty average shots and it was nice to get away with it, and I only made one bogey today, which was nice.

 Q. A continuation of the form we saw to the back end of the season?
 MARCUS FRASER: Yeah, I felt like I was playing quite well and I hurt my back in Madrid, a bit of a shame, and I had to pull out of Portugal and CASTELLON Masters, so a bit of a shame. Had some work done at home the last four or five weeks. Have not really done much practice. It was a bit of a surprise this week to be playing so well.

 Q. Have you got to the bottom of what the back problem is?
 MARCUS FRASER: Yeah, I had a CT-scan and X-rays, and I have a bulged disk in the lower back, a stress fracture in one of the vertebras and I have another bulged disk in my neck and a flattened nerve. Well, the nerve has got three layers coming out, and it's now down to two layers. 
 It's a bit worrying, but just taking it pretty easy at the moment.

 Q. How did you do it? 
 MARCUS FRASER: Just through practicing and playing. Obviously carrying too much weight doesn't help, too many barbecues and beers. Just wear and tear and progressively got worse over time and I have some work to do to fix it now.

 Q. So something you've suffered from in the past but it's been diagnosed properly?
 MARCUS FRASER: Yeah, it's like general tightness all the time and with the scans, it's obviously a lot worse than originally what we thought it was.

 Q. Did they say anything you should do like practice less or change technique?
 MARCUS FRASER: Yeah, I haven't really done any practice this week. I was home for four or five weeks and I think I played golf for three days, just because I physically couldn't do it. 
 Yeah, something I've got to try and get a little bit fitter maybe and strengthen it up and try to get it better.

 Q. Given all this, your position on the leaderboard is all the more impressive, isn't it?
 MARCUS FRASER: Yeah, feels pretty average at the moment, just try to get myself up for the weekend. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT