ITALIAN OPEN
October 15, 2017
Marcus Fraser
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  After a disappointing day yesterday, how determined were you to put in a good performance?  
MARCUS FRASER: Yeah, just wanted to get the putter working again.  Yesterday it was bone cold and I was a little bit jumpy most of the day.   
Today I was pretty calm and we both got off to a good start out there today.  Pretty much just fed off each other.  It was nice playing with Fish.  We've known each other for a long time.  It's always good fun when we play because you know you're going to see shot after shot -- we definitely fed off each other and pumped to find a bit of form finally, which is a big relief.   
 Q.  How important was it to get off to such a good start?  
MARCUS FRASER: Yeah, once I got through the turn, I'm like, keep going.  Don't look back and keep pushing onward.   
I felt like I played pretty good the back nine.  Just a couple of things didn't go my way.  Overall, I'm very pleased and happy to finally find some form.   
 Q.  What's it like being in the heat of battle again?  
MARCUS FRASER: It's good.  When you're back in it, you realise how much you do miss it.   
Unfortunately I haven't been in the mix too much this year, but when you get back in the mix, that's why we play and practise, and that's what we want to do.  When you do get that chance, you realise how special it is when you get a sniff.   
But yeah, that's why we play the game.   
 Q.  To have such a big week under the circumstances, you must be relieved, to say the least.  
MARCUS FRASER: Exactly.  I just changed my schedule again.  I think I may be going to Turkey and South Africa now.  Wasn't even in the ballpark before this week.   
So yeah, hopefully that happens now and probably head home tonight back to Australia and reassess.   
 Q.  What can you take from this performance when you do come back to The European Tour?  
MARCUS FRASER: Yeah, it's been back to basics this week.  Kind of go back to things that I know I do well.  That was pretty much the key, and everything sort of fell into place, apart from yesterday, where I was just maybe a little bit jumpy on the greens.  Overall, very happy to go back to some basics and just trust that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT