ITALIAN OPEN
October 13, 2017
Marcus Fraser
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Career low round of 62.  Good fortune on 18?
MARCUS FRASER: Yeah, there was a lot of fortune.  Hit the tree off the tee, as well.  Probably stopped it from going out of bounds.  Then I hit a good shot coming in from that far back and then it clipped the tree, and probably was still going to be on the green if it had missed the tree but shot toward the hole a little bit and just on the front edge.
Q. Six birdies in seven; tell us about that run.
MARCUS FRASER: I haven't felt like I played all that well for the first two days.  Even for me I felt like I putted unbelievable.  Didn't really leave too many out there at all.
Yeah, it's nice when that happens.  The greens are great out there, so it's nice when you get a good feel for the speed.
Q. You're 136th on the Order of Merit; what's been the story this year?
MARCUS FRASER: Well, yeah, I think it's just been frustrating.  I felt like it has not been far off most of the year and feel like it's really dropped off the last part of the year.  Just very lost with where my game was at.
Been a pretty rough year, I suppose but when you have rounds like that, you know that you're capable of still doing it, and today was a bit of reassurance to being close to packing it in and heading home.  It's nice having that cushion of being exempt for next year but I need to keep progressing and working hard and getting back to the way I know I make.
Q. Did you know you had a 62 in there?
MARCUS FRASER: I haven't seen a 62 all year to be honest.  It's nice when it felt like it was progressing but haven't felt that comfortable for a long time with my game.  Felt like I putted well and scrambled well this week.
Today I took it to a new level with the putter.  Felt like I putted well yesterday and probably out-did it today.
Q. Where do you feel the round kicked in?
MARCUS FRASER: Towards the end of the back nine there.  I made birdie on 6 and then on 8 and 9 and then I got a bit of momentum through 10, 11, 12.  You know there's birdies out there but you've also got to go do it, as well.
It was nice to keep going with it.  I feel like over the last few weeks I've got off to a good start with my round and sort of thrown it away.  Feels like it was in there somewhere and today was a bit of reassurance.
Q. Does it make it extra special bearing in mind the form you had over the past few weeks?
MARCUS FRASER: As I said before, I've been very close to chucking it in and going home and having a nice long break and trying to find out where my golf is.  When you have rounds like that today, it's a bit of reassurance that you are capable of still doing it.
Q. Were conditions when you teed off this morning conducive to that round?
MARCUS FRASER: Yeah, it was dead still.  The greens were perfect and it was a little cold and the ball wasn't going as far early on, maybe only five or six holes.  The rest was perfect out there, and I think you'll see some good scores this afternoon, as well.
Q. You've had a reasonably long European Tour career; is there a better round than this morning?
MARCUS FRASER: Probably not.  Just due to the circumstances where I've been form-wise and being able to turn it around and produce a round like that, I think you feel like you go from the tee most nights and start questioning what you're doing.  To come and do that today, pretty proud of myself and quite reassuring that I still can play golf.
Q. Top of the leaderboard, what will you take from that round going into the weekend, bearing in mind your position?
MARCUS FRASER: Yeah, I think it will be somewhere thereabouts after today.  I'll just keep pressing on and trying to stay patient.  I feel like I've done that really well and haven't lost the head.  That's very important out here, as we all know.
But yeah, hopefully I can just keep pressing on and trying to keep making some birdies and keep making some putts.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT