UBS HONG KONG OPEN
December 7, 2016
Marcus Fraser
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You've had some good success here in the past.  
MARCUS FRASER: Absolutely.  Love this golf course. Probably my top three, definitely top three favorite tournaments of the year.  Yeah, I think had it been any other week, I would have shut it down for the year.  I love this golf course and love this tournament.   
 Q.  What is it about the golf course that you like so much?  
MARCUS FRASER: Just like an old golf course, tree-lined and small greens, and there's no just bombing away and just hitting it.  You've got to think your way around the golf course, and I really enjoy it.  It's one of the few golf courses of the year that I really enjoy playing, and there's probably only a handful that I really, really enjoy.  It's probably one of the first ones that I make part of my schedule.   
 Q.  You played the Pro-Am this morning.  How did you find the golf course compared to previous years?  
MARCUS FRASER: I think it's probably in the best shape I think I've seen it.  I think they closed the course last week, and the greens, anything downgrain and downhill is lightning quick.  The greens are really good.  Hopefully they don't kick up too much with the grain, but yeah, I can't fault the golf course.  It's in great nick.   
 Q.  Final event of the year.  How would you sum up 2016 so far?  You've had one win, one second place finish and tied fifth in the Olympics, as well.  
MARCUS FRASER: Yeah and I think I was eighth in Indonesia, as well.  There's been some good weeks there.  There's been some awful weeks.  Majority of the weeks have been pretty average, so it's been a frustrating year, so the good thing is that there is some good there.  So there's plenty to work on in the break.  Going to take a couple of months off and charge the batteries up.   
 Q.  You won in Malaysia, and the track is similar to this one, as well?  
MARCUS FRASER: Yeah, absolutely.  They are the golf courses I like to play.  I don't like to play the big golf courses.  That's why I made this tournament, it's always part of my schedule, and had it been any other week, I wouldn't be playing this week.  It's always nice to come back here.   
 Q.  Got to ask you about the Order of Merit race, the final event of the year, and you need a win to actually just sort of push Scott Hend.  But this is a good event for you to try and do that, isn't it?  
MARCUS FRASER: It is a good event for me but at the same time, it's like giving Usain Bolt a head start in a 90-metre race; it's highly unlikely.  It's not one of my priorities.  My priority is playing well this week.  It's a golf course I love playing, and Hendy has played well all year and deserves to win, and in my eyes, I think it's all done and dusted.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT