ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE OPERATION BASKETBALL
October 25, 2017
Kevin Keatts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We're joined by North Carolina State coach Kevin Keatts.
Q. With Al Freeman transferring in from Baylor, how has he transitioned from a different program, what role will we have on your team, how well do you think he will assume that role?
COACH KEATTS: That's a great question.  First of all, I'm excited to have the opportunity to coach Al Freeman.  He's a young man that I've known for a long time.
He's from right here from Charlotte.  He brings a lot to our program, especially -- a lot of people will think his contribution on the court is going to be major, but I think just having an older guy in your locker room certainly helps a lot.
Now, on the basketball court he's a guy who can play either guard position.  The experience that he had at Baylor I thought was great, when you talk about going to NCAAs and everything else.
But he's a guy that certainly has to have a great year for us to be successful.  Could lead us in scoring.
Q. You've got a lot of guys in the front court that have experience from last year, whether it's Omer or Malik, or even Lennard.  He's had experience when he's not injured.  Do you feel that will be a strength for this team, and how they help you along with this transition process?
COACH KEATTS: Absolutely.  If I could find the way, and I know I can because obviously playing in the ACC you can't play those bigs together.
When you talk about Malik and talk about Lennard, who is coming back from injury, and Omer who we're blessed to have back, surely that's the strength of our team.
It's a situation where I finally got a guy who I can throw the ball inside and feel comfortable that he can score the basketball.
Q. If you were not available and none of your assistants were available, which player would you leave practice in their hands and feel remotely comfortable?
COACH KEATTS: I don't know about that one.  You know, I haven't had them long enough to have that.
I take that back.  I probably would leave it to Lennard Freeman.  Lennard is becoming a great leader for us.
When I go back and look at NC State games from last year, they missed somebody with that type of leadership.  They missed somebody who can rebound the basketball.
But he's got a tremendous personality.  Guys like him.  They listen to him.  So he would probably be the guy that would run practice.
Q. We're talking to your players earlier, and I asked them about some of the biggest differences from ending last year and to how practice is going with you.  And they said the competition, just everything, every drill is competitive.  So my question for you is, what have you seen out of that competition in practice, whether it's drills, plays, just between your players?
COACH KEATTS: Well, as you guys know, I'm trying to create a competitive atmosphere.  And with these guys, it's accountability.  It's effort.  It's competing every day.
But it's been good.  Ever since I've taken over the program, and we were fortunate enough to have 10 practices before we went to Italy, and now I think we're I would say 16 to 17 practices in before we start playing, these guys have competed and gave me great effort every day, and I'm proud of them for that.
But one of the things I want these guys to learn is how to compete.  And I think I'm getting that with these guys.
Q. Last Friday was "Prime Time with the Pack."  Just talk about your first experiences with Wolfpack Nation, seeing them for the first time?
COACH KEATTS: Unbelievable.  What a great experience.  It was a great show.  We lost our 3-point shooting contest to the females, if you saw that.
I warn you, the only reason why we lost is because that's where they play their games at and they practice there all the time.  I thought it was a great atmosphere.  I thought it was ran very well.  It was first-class.
Our guys certainly had a good time.  It was great because I think we were -- around 5,000 people showed up.  And when you talk about "Prime Time of the Pack," just to have that many guys come out, I thought it was good.  It was a dunk contest.  It was a great experience.
Q. You're an experienced head coach.  You're in a brand new venue.  What are your expectations for the '17/'18 season?
COACH KEATTS: Well, my expectation is if you come and you watch us play, that you leave the game saying, man, wow those guys compete.  As a head coach, you know, I'm going to go into this season just like everybody else.
My objective is, if we're playing 35 games, I want to be 35-0.  But somehow if we stub our toe and we lose a couple games, we'll reassess what we're trying to do or what we're trying to accomplish.
But my biggest thing is, when I was able to go on all the caravans and meet a lot of NC State fans, the one thing that came back to me is they wanted to see a product that would compete every night.  And that's what I'm looking for.
Q. With the seasoned veterans of Al Freeman and Lennard Freeman, what expectations do you have from them in terms of mentoring the younger players coming in?
COACH KEATTS: Well, first of all, you've got to give me a little credit that I was able to bring two Freemans to this event.
I have high expectations.  When you're a senior and this is your last opportunity, and not just Al and not just Lennard -- I talk about that with Sam Hunt.  I talk about that with Malik.  And even with the younger guys, I challenge the younger guys to play for the seniors.
One thing I've told those guys is one day you're going to be an upperclassman and you're going to want some freshman or sophomore to play for you.  So, really, this season should be dedicated to those guys.
Q. Last season Markell had essentially played second banana to Dennis Smith Jr.  Talk about how he's developed in trying to transition to the starting role now.
COACH KEATTS: He's getting better.  The one thing about Markell is that he's learning how to compete every day.  He's a guy -- and it's a great thing, because we've got a freshman, Lavar Batts, who is from around here who is really pushing him every day.  You'll either see a lineup with those two guys in there together.
But for Markell, the great thing about it is because he played beside Dennis, he can play a 1 or 2.  And the same thing with Lavar.  But he's coming along.  A little slower than some other guys, but he's getting there.
Q. Coming from UNCW and now at NC State, I talked to -- a couple of your guys are from North Carolina.  And I talked to Al about North Carolina's reputation as a hoop state.  He definitely pointed to the fact that he thinks this is the number one place for basketball.  I just wanted to get your thoughts on that.
COACH KEATTS: Oh, absolutely.  What else would I say?  This is the mecca of college basketball.  And I mean that.
If you look around North Carolina, even as far as recruiting, some good young players, but certainly there's some talent in this state.  Always has been and always will continue to be.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT