BUICK LPGA SHANGHAI
October 20, 2019
Yu Lui
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So, great round today.
YU LIU: Oh, thank you.
Q. You closed so well today. How do you feel right now? You're going to be the lowest Chinese player in the field. Best score. Got to be a great feeling.
YU LIU: Yeah, definitely coming into this week I just have a good feel about the golf course and the vibes and everything playing my sponsor's event. It's one of -- definitely one of my favorite tournaments to play in on the schedule.
So, yeah, I had pretty high expectations, to be honest. That's why I kind of didn't do as well as I would have liked on the first round playing with Nasa and Nelly, two of the very top players.
So, yeah, I wasn't in my tournament zone for the entire round, but I thought about it. Like I give it a lot of thinking after the round that night. I'm glad it paid off the very next day and I shot a very low round in tough conditions.
Q. What do you have to tell yourself to bounce back from that tough round?
YU LIU: Yeah, just stay more concentrated I would say. Stay within my shot. Just not play overly aggressive on this golf course, because I was trying to make -- like I was craving for birdies too bad because a it's very tough golf course that requires a lot precision, a lot of thinking, and patience for sure.
Just take it shot by shot and just try to, you know, play smart instead of trying to go for every pin.
Q. So you've played in this event before. What does having Shanshan here and what she's done -- what has she done for you and Chinese golf?
YU LIU: She's just the greatest icon, the greatest role model for all the young kids, for all the next generation golfers. Her achievements, it's just so high up there. I looked at her stats one day. I was looking through the career Money List and she ranked top 15 in history, so that means she's like one of the greatest golfer of all time.
Her consistency, her attitude towards the game, life, is just something that we can always look up to and learn from.
Q. I'm guessing is she one of your biggest role models out there.
YU LIU: Oh, for sure. Without a doubt.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT