LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 24, 2009
Soo-Yun Kang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN: All right, Soo-Yun. I know you're disappointed. And if you would, just talk about today and how you felt you played. 
 SOO-YUN KANG: I'm not sure of my mind right now, if my brain is all right. 
 I'm okay with the way I played today. I think I played pretty well, but I'm obviously very, very disappointed that I missed the putt on 18th. 
 So I played well overall, but I'm hugely disappointed. 

 Q. Back on nine, you made birdie on nine and then on 10 drove into the sand trap and took a bogey. Was that difficult to come back from?
 SOO-YUN KANG: It's just missed the tee shot make the bogey. I didn't think about that one. Just everything on 18 is -- I make the birdie on nine, it was a good putt for over there. But after that, just maybe a little bit higher. 

 Q. Were you watching the scoreboard? Were you aware of where Yani was?
 SOO-YUN KANG: I can see she make birdie or par or something like that. 

 Q. You made nice birdie at 16. 
 SOO-YUN KANG: Uh-huh. 

 Q. To go to 21. Talk about your drive on 17 and having to hit from under the trees. 
 SOO-YUN KANG: My shot did a draw, but I tried to hit a straight ball, but it make a little draw going left side in the trees. It was no shot for the high shot. I tried to make low to get on the green. 
 But I saw that Yani make the birdie on that hole, so I keep trying for I want to make birdie for that hole, that little shot and then come back for the front of the green, just make par. And I tried to make birdie for the last hole, and made three putts. 

 Q. You had beautiful drive on 18. What was your club hitting into the green?
 SOO-YUN KANG: Pitching wedge. But a little punch. 

 Q. And about how far was your birdie putt?
 SOO-YUN KANG: 20 yards. 

 Q. And how far to come back for par?
 SOO-YUN KANG: Like this much. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: I'd say three, four. We'll say four. 

 Q. Did you feel a lot of nerves stepping up to your last putt?
 SOO-YUN KANG: No. A little bit nervous. It was like I have to make this putt to go into playoff. I had to hit it like that. Nervous. But I missed the one, that kind of putt on number 14 for birdie. But I feel like I can make it. But I didn't watch until after the hole ball going two. It looked like right to left, the ball going right. I missed the ridge that way. 

 Q. We can forgive you on 14 because you haven't putted much on 14 this tournament. 
 SOO-YUN KANG: 13. 14, three putt on four days. 

 Q. Did you hit the green on the 18th hole?
 SOO-YUN KANG: Yeah. 

 Q. And still setting in that -- is it disappointment or -- hard to say because it has to be frustrating to miss that putt for the playoff, but what was your first thought when the putt did not go in?
 SOO-YUN KANG: Just nothing. I felt all right, and then, oh, nothing. 

 Q. Did you see Yani's drive on 16?
 SOO-YUN KANG: No. 

 Q. You seem quite composed after losing as tough as this loss was. Is it more maybe when you get alone tonight you might have a good cry over it when you think of it or are you just going to go onto next week and mark this up to just experience? 
 SOO-YUN KANG: I wanted to cry on the scorecard, but yesterday when I left the golf course, I not think about the golf, and at this point, I played well this week. I can make a win on a lot of the tournaments. I can make a win there. I'll just keep trying hard and remember for that putt, don't ever do that. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: All right. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT