LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 23, 2009
Soo-Yun Kang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN: All right, Soo-Yun. Nice birdie on 18 to tie for the lead at 17-under going into the final round in the final Corning Classic. If you would, just talk about your round and how excited you are for tomorrow. 
 SOO-YUN KANG: It's so good right now. I make almost every putt today. One chip in and then one hole shot. 
 I'm feeling so good. I keep going for tomorrow and my plan is just to focus on my game. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Questions? 

 Q. Getting towards the end of your round it looked like you almost could have been challenging for the all-time record and then you had a couple of bogeys. How were you able to snap out of that and come back with a nice finish?
 SOO-YUN KANG: I just keep trying for the shot, to focus for the shot. I forget that I made bogey or something. I forget it. 
 And after that, I just keep trying to make the hole, the shot. I just thinking about the next hole and not making bogey. 

 Q. The playing conditions here obviously must be pretty good because the scores are so low. Is this as good a playing condition as you've had all year, that you can remember?
 SOO-YUN KANG: Yeah. I think this time is very good conditions because almost every week has been windy so much. 
 But this week is just perfect. It's just a little wind, and then the course condition is so great. We can play low. And the course is good. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: I just want to get your thoughts on eagle on 14 and then coming back on 15. I think you over-shot to the green. Was there maybe just a little adrenaline that played there, having over-shot on 15? 
 SOO-YUN KANG: No. 15? Yeah, No. 15, I hit perfect, but just maybe went a little longer, just the pitch went pin high and just to go over. 
 My fairway is not so bad. I hit it good, but the wind make it longer. I make the bogey, but if I can hit it straight, it's a good thing. I don't think about the next bogey. 

 Q. Can you talk about hole 16, your first shot landed into the rough on the hill and then you pulled it to the left on the side of the green. Looked like you were actually hitting it off the path and maybe a tree root over there?
 SOO-YUN KANG: The first shot? 

 Q. No. After your approach to the green was left of the green. You had to hit off the tree root. 
 SOO-YUN KANG: Yeah. 

 Q. On to the green. Can you talk about that a little?
 SOO-YUN KANG: Yeah. 

 Q. That was a great shot. 
 SOO-YUN KANG: Yeah. I just concentrate just to hit it, hit perfect and just to make green. I'm not thinking about the cross. I had to make par. I was thinking just to hit it perfect. 

 Q. What are you going to do tonight now that you have a share of the lead?
 SOO-YUN KANG: Actually, when I go out of the golf course, I not thinking about the golf. I'm just watching Korean drama. And it's just a game, and when I come back to the golf course, I think about the golf.
 But I think I'll sleep good maybe tonight. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Well, it worked today, obviously. All right. Anything else? Soo-Yun, thank you so much. 
 SOO-YUN KANG: Thank you very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT