WENDY'S CHAMPIONSHIP FOR CHILDREN
August 25, 2006
Soo-Yun Kang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PAUL ROVNAK:  Thanks for coming in and joining us.  A great round out there.  You birdied No. 9 and then played the back nine extremely well.  What was working well for you today?
SOO YUN KANG:  I think the putting.  The first nine holes, I didn't make it close to the hole.  I just make one birdie.  And then after the 10th hole I did pretty good.
Q.  Were you frustrated at all because the first eight holes you had parred, but you didn't have any birdies the first eight holes?
SOO YUN KANG: No.
Q.  Not at all?
SOO YUN KANG:  No.  I made a great par on No. 5.  I hit driver in the bunker.  I hit like a top and then it went 50 yards.  And then 100 yards to the pin, I hit it just like three feet.  I made par there.  So almost a birdie there.
Q.  Talk about what part of your game    other than putting, what did you do well today?
SOO YUN KANG:  I think everything is good:  Driver, irons, putting.  I shot 6 under.  When everything is perfect, I can shoot under par.
Q.  Considering how well you played here last year, did you just have a good feeling coming into this week about being able to do it again?
SOO YUN KANG: Yes.  At the start of this year I didn't play well.  Sometimes when I wake up, I can't move my neck.  But I got the feeling from last week, but I didn't play well last week.  But this course, last year I played it perfect, but the last day I didn't make the birdies.  I made one.  I think this year I got the feeling back.  When I made putts I thought, I can make them in this tournament.
Q.  Are you getting any treatment for your neck?
SOO YUN KANG:  In the middle of the season I got an injection and acupuncture and everything.  It helped for maybe one month, two months.  But I cannot take two times injections for a year, so I cannot take anymore.  I try hot packs on the neck and then sometimes take some medicine.  After this I go back to Korea to it fix this one.
Q.  Talk about Tartan Fields, what you like about Tartan Fields, this golf course.  What do you like about this golf course?
SOO YUN KANG:  I like the greens.  I can read.  It's almost perfect.  When I hit it straight, I can make every putt.  I think it's the greens.
Q.  Did your neck, was it your neck that caused you to withdraw last week?
SOO YUN KANG: Yes, in Canada.  Maybe six tournaments I withdraw from because of my neck.
Q.  When you go back to Korea, are you considering having surgery on your neck?
SOO YUN KANG: No.
Q.  What kind of treatment will you try to get back there?
SOO YUN KANG:  I try to work out.  Somebody told me it's nothing helped by a doctor.  Injections didn't help for the neck.  I have to work out for the neck so I can fix it.  Everybody that has a neck problem, it's not a perfect fix.  I have to work out, keep trying and make the muscle here tight.
Q.  When you go back to Korea, is it for good?  Are you not playing anymore on this Tour?
SOO YUN KANG:  I'll come back. (Inaudible.)  I play in two tournaments in Korea, too.
Q.  You're tied for the lead with Jee Young.  What is your relationship with other South Korean golfers?  Is it competitive or is it more friendly, would you describe it?
SOO YUN KANG:  Friendly, yes, we are very friendly.  After we finish a round, we go to dinner sometimes, and we drink.  We talk a lot.  We're very friendly.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Take us over your scorecard now.  Start with the birdie on 9.
SOO YUN KANG:  9, hit driver, 3 wood, maybe 5 feet, made birdie.
PAUL ROVNAK:  You were on the green in 2 or 3?
SOO YUN KANG:  Three.
Q.  Where was your third shot?
SOO YUN KANG:  Right side of the green, pin high right side and then chipped it to 5 feet and made putt.

11, hit driver, 3 wood.  It was pin high but going maybe right side maybe 25 yards, then two feet.
PAUL ROVNAK:  So you had to chip on again on 11?
SOO YUN KANG:  Yes.

13, hit 9 iron maybe seven feet, birdie.

15, 9 wood, 9 feet.

16, 5 iron, 15 feet, made birdie.

17, 9 iron, maybe four feet.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT