WENDY'S CHAMPIONSHIP FOR CHILDREN
August 27, 2005
Soo-Yun Kang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PAUL ROVNAK:  Soo Yun Kang, thanks for coming in.  One shot off the lead, you're in a great position to win back to back weeks.  So you'll be in contention tomorrow.  Talk about that.
SOO YUN KANG:  If I concentrate, I have a chance to win.  If I have luck, I have a chance to win.
Q.  With regard to concentrating, how tough was it to concentrate the whole way today when you had the interruption because of the rain and waiting on groups ahead of you after the rain delay?
SOO YUN KANG:  I'm so tired right now.  I could not concentrate on the last five or six holes.  I keep trying.  I had a lot of putts today I didn't make because I'm so tired.  I kept trying just to make par.  I was just concentrating, keep going, and don't make bogey, don't make a big mistake, I can get the top position.
Q.  You made an excellent birdie putt, I think it was on 4, when it was raining really hard, the par 5.  You seemed to hit the putt really firm.  Was that your intent, because it was raining so hard at that point?
SOO YUN KANG:  Yes, that putt is a little bit uphill.  Today's greens were very slow, and after the rain it's more slow, so less break and hit it hard.
Q.  The players you were playing with were struggling out there a little bit.  Does that make it hard to keep your concentration, especially Matthews having a tough day.  Does that make it hard?
SOO YUN KANG:  A little bit, but it doesn't affect me.  I just think I feel so sorry for her.  I wished she could be better, I kept thinking.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Take us over your score card again.
SOO YUN KANG:  No. 3, maybe seven, eight hours ago, I hit 8 iron to five feet.

No. 5, hit 6 iron to 18 feet, 20 feet.

No. 7, made bogey, hit 7 iron, made a 3 putt.  I missed it six feet for the par putt.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Do you know how far that first putt was?
SOO YUN KANG:  20 yards, 18 yards or 20 yards.
PAUL ROVNAK:  No. 9, it's 15 yards to the green, 15 yards chipping to seven feet, make the putt.

No. 11, 50 degree wedge to nine feet, make putt.
Q.  What number do you think you need to shoot tomorrow to win?
SOO YUN KANG:  Like maybe 22, something like that, 21.
Q.  When you were talking about trying not to make the big mistake, is that reflected in the fact that you parred the last seven holes, you were just possibly trying to play, hit the green, 2 putt, par, not do anything bad to put yourself in trouble, as tired as you were feeling?
SOO YUN KANG:  I kept trying    when I was in not a bad position, but tough pin position, I just praying for the safe shot.  Some holes I'm praying to make birdie, but I make the par putt.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT