WENDY'S CHAMPIONSHIP FOR CHILDREN
August 26, 2005
Soo-Yun Kang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PAUL ROVNAK:  Soo Yun, thanks for coming in and speaking with us again.  Another very good round today.  12 under par.  You're tied for the lead.  You won last week.  Can we have some opening comments about the round today before we take questions?
SOO YUN KANG:  I have good mood today, same as yesterday.  And except No. 12 hole, I'm really satisfied with today's play.  But 12 hole, I made mistake.  It became chip hole.  So that was my huge mistake today.  Except that, that was perfect today.
PAUL ROVNAK:  We'll go ahead and take questions.
Q.  That was my question.  How do you come back from a triple bogey to shoot 66?  How do you hold yourself together?
SOO YUN KANG:  I think it was because of No. 1 and    first and second hole, because I did birdie (indiscernible) two hole.  And after I made chip hole, I was mad.  But I thought I can get over this, because, you know, two holes I did perfect shot, it goes like one foot only.  So I did birdie 4th hole.  So, yeah, I feel like get over it already.
Q.  Does it make any difference at all when Annika Sorenstam is in the field too, you know she played fairly well, she moved to 8 under today, so she's within 4 short shots of the lead.  I'm just wondering.
SOO YUN KANG:  I don't care Annika playing    Annika is playing this tournament.  Even Tiger Woods come here, I don't scared about that.  I only focus on this game.  And I think my    I have to (indiscernible) myself.  So I only control myself.
Q.  Do you think it's going to take two more rounds like you played the last two days to win this tournament the way everybody else is playing?
SOO YUN KANG:  I think some players can do better than me.  But I will try to win again.  Yeah.  That's all.
Q.  You're 12 under now.  Do you think that it might take 24 under to win the tournament on Sunday?
SOO YUN KANG:  I can try.  Yeah.  I think so.  21, 22.  Not 24.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Can you take us over your score card today?
SOO YUN KANG:  Yep.  Second hole?
PAUL ROVNAK:  Okay.  No. 2.
SOO YUN KANG:  Second hole hit pitching wedge, four feet or five feet, make birdie.

And No. 5 hit 6 iron, and 3 foot.

No. 7 hit 8 iron, half foot.

And No. 9 hit 3 wood (indiscernible) edge of the green.  Maybe 15 feet, 20 feet, and make chip, putt for birdie.

No. 10 hit pitching wedge, one foot.

No. 11 hit pitting wedge and one foot.

And No. 12 hit driver in the water, and I drop it and    in water, I drop (indiscernible) pitching wedge, two putt.

And No. 13, hit 8 and 8 feet, make birdie.

No. 15 hit 9 wood, 20 feet, make.

And No. 18 hit 7 iron, one (indiscernible).
Q.  Obviously this tournament isn't over yet so it's not better than what you did last week, because you won.  But how are you playing now compared to last week?  Are you playing better than when you won ?
SOO YUN KANG:  (Indiscernible) my putting is not good as last week because the green is slow.  But my shots is even better than last week, so that's why I can make good putt birdies.
Q.  Have you ever had a round before where you hit four shots    four approaches to a foot or less or even birdies?  I mean, that's an incredible round when you've got one that 6 inches and three more that are a foot.  Have you ever done that before?
SOO YUN KANG:  Yeah (laughter).
Q.  Is that due to you playing your irons very well or the green holding?  Where you'd hit it, it'd stick?
SOO YUN KANG:  You mean
PAUL ROVNAK:  He wants to know if it's because you're hitting your irons, your approach shots so well, or is it because when you hit the green, the ball sticks.  He wants to know since you put them so close, what was it?
SOO YUN KANG:  The green is so soft, can make perfect shots is why, yeah.
PAUL ROVNAK:  So it's a little bit of both.
SOO YUN KANG:  The last green is little bit hard, hard green.  I hit perfect, but something bowed, something spinned to make cross the top.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Thank you.
SOO YUN KANG:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT