MICHELOB ULTRA OPEN AT KINGSMILL
May 6, 2004
Soo-Yun Kang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PAUL ROVNAK:  Thanks for coming in joining us.  6-under puts you at the very top of the leaderboard all by yourself.  I imagine that's a pretty good place to be.  Tell us about your day and what was working for you; then we'll go from there.
SOO-YUN KANG: First few holes like all miss the green, just one hole for make green.  But not much missed like edge, something like that, but first few hole not comparable to the shot but after a few hole I got feeling and today I think putting is very good feeling.  After nine holes every time make a birdie chance, but I didn't few putts, but today feeling is very nice and then  -- yeah.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Let us do the score card first.  Go over the birdies and bogies.

We'll start with the birdie on 11.  Do you remember what you hit in?
SOO-YUN KANG: 60 degree  -- 60 yard for 60 degree.  One and a half feet.

Then bogey on 13, ball go left.

VOICE:  Hit it in the back of the ball, she only got  --
SOO-YUN KANG: I am hitting just in front of the ball and then 2-putt.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Do you remember what club you hit off the tee on 13?
SOO-YUN KANG: 7.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Birdie on 15.
SOO-YUN KANG: 15 is a par 5, I hit 3-wood and then maybe 20 yards, going to the right side and then hit the 60 degree like  30 yard.  Pretty close, two feet.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Birdie on 3, another par 5.
SOO-YUN KANG: I hit 3-wood and then hit the hill, then back to downhill, down there, and then maybe 40 yards.  Three and a half feet.
PAUL ROVNAK:  What club did you hit in?
SOO-YUN KANG: 60-degree.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Birdie on 4.
SOO-YUN KANG: I hit 7-iron and then, long, 10, twelve feet.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Birdie on 5.
SOO-YUN KANG: 7-iron and then one feet.  Almost a hole-in-one.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Birdie on 7, the par 5.
SOO-YUN KANG: Hit 3-wood, ball go left just chip, 60-degree.  Then maybe half feet.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Half a foot?
SOO-YUN KANG: Yes.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Birdie on 9.
SOO-YUN KANG: 9, hit 7-iron and maybe ten feet.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Questions.
Q.  I apologize for not looking this up in the Media Guide.  Did you play here last year?
SOO-YUN KANG: Yeah, I played last year.  I missed the cut here, but I am playing very good last year, so I make Top-10 for 6th time.  Then I finished for the second for the Takefuju Classic.  I am playing very good for the last year, but I am starting this year for a little bad, missed the cut, but I got the feeling for the Takefuji I finished for 11th and then last tournament finished for the 23rd, so because first day I am hit the best shot very, very best shot for one hole to make double-bogey to finish 2-over.  But I got feeling for the -- after Takefuji for putting and short game.  So today everything matching.

So I am playing good.
Q.  Even though you missed the cut here last year did you like the course and feel like it might suit your game?
SOO-YUN KANG: Because actually last year is almost a rookie year so I got card from 2001 but conditional, I am not playing here, just two, three tournaments.  Then I go back to Korea and I am playing for the Korean Tour.  This course is very deep rough, first time playing for the deep rough, very tough and then I cannot get out of the rough because I missed the cut here.  I like this course.
Q.  Speaking of matching, what color are we calling these fingernails here?
SOO-YUN KANG: Pink.  I like the pink.  Not matching, just put on this and then today my clothes is red and pink.
Q.  You said you almost had a hole-in-one at 5.  Did it hit the stick by chance?
SOO-YUN KANG: No, just make spin for the shorter than pin, like I think so I am hit it so feeling good, oh, I think it made it, but it bounced and stop.  So I think so a little bit release, but stopped kick.
Q.  Have you ever had a hole-in-one in a professional tournament?
SOO-YUN KANG: Yeah, in Korea.  I hit 5-iron and roll and hole-in-one.  I got car.
Q.  What kind of car was it?
SOO-YUN KANG: Ford, but I upgraded for the Lincoln.  (Laughter).
Q.  Have you been the leader before?
SOO-YUN KANG: I think so tie.  Not alone.
Q.  Are you comfortable with that?
SOO-YUN KANG: Yeah, because I am playing for the Korean Tour a lot.  I make the win a lot there, not much different, low and high.
Q.  You had a bunch of birdies that were very close.  Were you just knocking pins down all day?
SOO-YUN KANG: No, just hit the pin and roll across the hole.
Q.  I mean, you were really close all day.  Did you feel like you were hitting everything close today?
SOO-YUN KANG: Actually, yes.
Q.  One of those days.  Can you ride that into tomorrow and hopefully continue just hitting it as well as you are hitting it right now?
SOO-YUN KANG: I think so.  Yeah, I feel like that.

VOICE:  She said when she hit it before she had a feeling that the ball was like moving away from the pin and not where she intends to hit it, but today she was hitting same way and she felt same, but this time ball was going in towards the pin, so hopefully in the future like tomorrow or day after tomorrow, hopefully it will be the same way.  She feels the same way too.
Q.  Was today as good as you have hit the ball all season?
SOO-YUN KANG: No, actually I playing good last week but I didn't make the putt then I missed the one shot is bad for  -- but last year also  -- last two week also play pretty good.
Q.  Have you won a lot in Korea?
SOO-YUN KANG: Yes.  Maybe seven, eight times.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT