TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 19, 2015
Tevin Madison
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Tevin, obviously, not the performance people want from the offense.  Nobody feeling like this is a good win.  Yet the defense, you guys stepping up late, that had to give you a great amount of confidence for you guys to make those plays and seal that win.
TEVIN MADISON: Definitely, the defense took a big step being able to hold Kansas to 20 points and scoring on the defense for the offense when they couldn't get it going.
Q. What was going through your mind?  Seems like late you guys had the touchdown recovery in the end zone?  Get the ball back the very next play, and Jah'Shawn gets the pick six.
TEVIN MADISON: It was big when Jah'Shawn gets the pick six.  Like you said, I thought we had a touchdown on the play before.  But you stay focused and get to the next play, and he was able to make a play, and it helped us out a lot.
Q. Talk about the challenge of going up against a team that put up 55 on Kansas State and a lot of weapons in Norman.
TEVIN MADISON: Yeah, good offense, good quarterback, good receivers, good running back.  We look forward to playing against another good opponent in the Big 12.  We're going to work this week to get better and try to improve on last week and build on last week.
Q. Do you feel like the defense has become a little bit more opportunistic now, especially with the turnovers and key interceptions?
TEVIN MADISON: Definitely.  Turnovers is always helping us out.  Any time we create multiple turnovers, we get a win.  Coach is always harping on turnovers.  That's what we try to focus on throughout the week.
Q. Obviously, you didn't play with Baker, but do you sense it up in the defensive room guys wanting to play well against him because he was here?
TEVIN MADISON: Not really.  I think we want to play well just because we know we've got a great opponent coming in.  Like you said, I didn't play with him, but I heard great things about Baker.  He's a good quarterback from what I've seen.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT