BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 22, 2007
David Griffiths
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Tell us about the day if you would.   
 DAVID GRIFFITHS:  Yeah, I played very solid the last few holes habit of scramble coming in but managed to keep it up.  Yeah it's been a solid two days.   
  
  Q.  Nice series of birdies, you seemed to have momentum with you?   
 DAVID GRIFFITHS:  Every few holes, just gradually builds up and it was a good day.  I putted nicely for two days and hopefully I can keep that going.   
  
  Q.  Not to concentrate on any negatives, but what did happen at the end?   
 DAVID GRIFFITHS:  Just missed a couple of shot out to the right.  I don't know.  I didn't commit to them.  I don't know really.  Just hit a few bad ones and four in a row out to the right and it's a scramble and made three pars and just the one dropped shot.   
 So go hit a few on the range and figure it out.  I wasn't there for the first to holes, so get back to that and be okay.   
  
  Q.  Scoring better today than the first day but is it harder?   
 DAVID GRIFFITHS:  It's quite breezy in the afternoon.  It's definitely colder now and feels like it's picking up.  But from the afternoon yesterday about the same.  I think in morning, it was a lot calmer yesterday, yeah.  Not far off.   
  
  Q.  First day it's a tough course if you find yourself away from the fairways but plenty of birdie opportunities.   
 DAVID GRIFFITHS:  Yeah, as soon as you miss a few, you start to realise how tough it is.  But if you keep it in the short grass, yeah, definitely there are some opportunities out there.   
  
  Q.  I guess you're pretty confident about yourself at the moment because your form has been good in recent weeks?   
 DAVID GRIFFITHS:  Yeah, pretty solid.  Just had a couple of weeks off and fresh and ready to go.   
  
  Q.  Do anything much in the time off?   
 DAVID GRIFFITHS:  No, not a whole lot.  Yeah, I'm pretty good at not doing too much.  So, yeah, it was good.   
  
  Q.  That's the beauty of it.   
 DAVID GRIFFITHS:  Yeah, definitely.   
  
  Q.  Leave the clubs in the garage.   
 DAVID GRIFFITHS:  Yeah, two or three times hit a few, but nothing too much, big stretch of golf now, so fresh to go.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT