NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v COYOTES
May 21, 2012
Drew Doughty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Drew Doughty.  
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)   
DREW DOUGHTY:   We need it.   We know a lot of times in playoffs special teams are key.   Our penalty kill has been great entire playoffs.   Our power play needs to pick it up.   If we get a goal, at least one on that power play, it changes the whole momentum of the game.   
We definitely got to make sure that we're capitalizing on those opportunities.  
   
 Q.   Looked like they were blocking shots early.   
DREW DOUGHTY:   They were doing a good job at that.   But we need to make sure that we're getting pucks off our stick quicker.   Once you make that pass, getting that shot there quicker.   If you take your time, it gives them more time to close the lane down, get in the shot lane.   We need to maybe take more one‑timers and find a way to get past them.  
   
 Q.   Dustin says because he stands in the front, you should be looking for him in front.   
DREW DOUGHTY:   That's what we have to do.   It's not always about the bomb, the one‑timer, whatever it may be.   It's about getting to the puck, creating a battle.   
   
 Q.   The Bruins proved last year you don't need a great power play to win the Stanley Cup.   Do you think it's overrated?  
DREW DOUGHTY:   No.   Power play is so key.   Like I said, if we just get a couple on that power play last night, that changes the whole game.   With a man up, you should be creating those chances, scoring opportunities to put pucks in the net.   
I think we're getting some good zone time right now.   But it's definitely very important.   I know all the guys in the power play are pretty disappointed with themselves right now.  
   
 Q.   Is it looking for that perfect opportunity?  
DREW DOUGHTY:   I think it's a little bit of that.   Then when we do shoot it, we're getting our shots blocked.   We need to figure out one of the two.   If we don't have those plays, it's about moving the puck quickly, getting the puck quick to the net.   
They're doing such a good job with that now we need to find a way to get by it.   For the most part, guys on the power play are there because they're good at it, find ways to create opportunities.   That's our job, we need to do that.   
   
 Q.   (Question regarding Mitchell.)  
DREW DOUGHTY:   I thought he's been great.   I'm always talking to Mitchie about stuff, more so defensively.   He's obviously great defensively on the team.   He's so good positionally, stuff like that.   I've learned a lot from him.   
Played with him as his D partner once in a while.   You learn a lot.   In the room, he's big on being positive all the time and having fun, too.   So he's been a great leader on our team and he's done a great job at it.  
   
 Q.   Does he still talk to you, give you advice?  
DREW DOUGHTY:   Yeah, all the time, if he sees something.   Like I said, more so defensively, if he sees something I did wrong, could have done differently, he'll point it out to me.   It's a good thing because I always want to be learning, getting better.   To have him back has been a big help.  
   
 Q.   You're still leading the series 3‑1, you're still in good position, but you don't want to let them get hope and momentum.   
DREW DOUGHTY:   We got to win this next game.   We gave them hope last night.   We let them back into the series making it 3‑1.   This next game is huge.   If they win that one, we're coming back, they win one more, they push it to a Game 7.   
We got to play our best game.   Our last couple games we really slacked off, haven't played our best hockey as a team.   Going into the next one in their barn, we have to be at our best or things are going to change on the series.  
   
 Q.   Why do you think you haven't played your best?  
DREW DOUGHTY:   They're playing good hockey, too.   I thought last night they played really well.   It starts with our top players.   They need to lead the way.   They need to play their best.   Their top players played some good hockey last night.   We have to match them and play better than them.   
We didn't do that last night.   I know we're working on that.   Next game is going to be a different story.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT