THE HONDA CLASSIC
February 28, 2020
JT Poston
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Good way to finish, birdies at 17 and 18. You have to be pretty happy with that finish.  
JT POSTON: Yeah, definitely. I mean, those last four are not easy. 18 you've got a good birdie chance, but any time you steal one on 15, 16 or 17, you feel pretty good about it.   
 Q.  How were the conditions today compared to yesterday? It seems gorgeous out there.  
JT POSTON: It's nice out there. I think yesterday we were pretty fortunate to play in the afternoon. The wind looked like it died down or felt like it died down, and it's obviously warmer. I felt like we definitely had a little bit better conditions in the afternoon than in the morning, and then this morning kind of same deal. It's colder, feels a little windier than maybe what we played in yesterday afternoon, but I'm sure it'll probably be the same for the guys this afternoon, it'll die down a little bit.   
 Q.  I've admired your game for quite a few seasons, and of course at the Wyndham last year it came together with that 62 in the final round. Where is your game right now heading into the new season?  
JT POSTON: It's close. It's there. I feel like the short game is really sharp. My putting has been really good, pretty much like it was that week in Greensboro. Just trying to get the ball-striking a touch sharper. Tee balls have been fine, but the iron shots haven't been quite as solid as I'd like them to be. But I've been missing them in some good places, and short game has been sharp enough it's bailed me out. If I can figure out the irons a little bit more, give myself a few more looks, then I like where it could go.   
 Q.  Lastly, your putting stance is so casual, straight up, feet close together. It looks completely relaxed. You have no tension at all anywhere, do you?  
JT POSTON: Yeah, that's kind of how I learned to putt as a kid, and that's kind of how I've always done it. It's just whatever feels comfortable. To me I know it probably looks a little different to what you see with most guys, but to me it's comfortable and I can see where I'm lined up, and it just feels like I'm rested in. So I think the more relaxed I can be I think the better chance I have of making those putts.   
 Q.  Great way to finish, make bunch taste a lot better with birdies on 17 and 18. Just a few comments on the round today.  
JT POSTON: Yeah, it's a tough golf course, so even on days like today where you shoot a good number, it feels like a grind pretty much most of the day. That was the case for me most of the day. Felt like I was kind of battling and making some good pars and even a good bogey on 11 after hitting it in the water, and pretty fortunate -- nice to make a couple birdies coming in to finish off a good round.   
 Q.  You mentioned over here the wind. Do you feel like you may have gotten the better draw in the wind scenario this week?  
JT POSTON: Yeah, it definitely felt like it yesterday. I know it was cold and windy for those guys yesterday morning, and for us it was warm in the afternoon. Definitely felt like the wind died down. I don't think we ever played a shot more than maybe one club down or into or whatever. But today it felt a little different. I think we played a couple shots that were two, even three-club winds maybe. But it evens itself out. I'd say we might have gotten a little lucky with the draw, but it definitely played a little tougher in the mornings, I think.   
 Q.  No one ever hits 65 good shots in a round, but at this place do you have to accept that there's going to be bad holes; it's just going to happen here? Do you have to accept that when you come play this place?  
JT POSTON: Yeah, you know the scores aren't going to be low because it's a hard golf course, so par is fine. If you hit some good shots, you can shoot 5-, 6-under. I wouldn't be surprised if somebody does it at some point this week, but to put four good rounds like that together is pretty tough, and anything under par around here is a great round. If you can do that for four days in a row, then you've probably got a decent chance come Sunday.   
 Q.  How do you handle the next 24, 25, 26 hours knowing that you're going to have a pretty good shot going into tomorrow?  
JT POSTON: Yeah, well, tomorrow is Saturday, so we've got 36 more -- we've only halfway. But it's pretty much the same business as usual. Just try and focus on what I can maybe do a little bit better, which I think after these first two rounds is probably a little bit better iron play, and just keep trying to make some putts like I have been and give myself as many looks as I can and just see where we end up at the end of the day.   
 Q.  When you show up here, it's not supposed to be cold here. How much move are a challenge does that add to the mental part of this place when it is 48 when you teed off or whatever it was?  
JT POSTON: Yeah, it was definitely chilly when we teed off, but fortunately we're coming from the West Coast where the weather is pretty unpredictable and can be cold. I'd say we're a little bit used to playing in this kind of weather, and living in Sea Island, this is pretty normal for this time of year. It makes it harder, but it's not anything that we haven't seen before.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT