SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 20, 2019
JT Poston
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Ramp up with 64 and then shoot 70. Good day. How would you describe it?
JT POSTON: Yeah, it was a solid day. Definitely a few more bumps along the way in the second round.
But I think it was windier. The holes that are usually your birdie holes, scoring holes, they had some tough pins and winds to make it a little bit harder to make those birdies.
I felt like the second round was playing a little harder. The greens are still soft; the greens are still really good. See where we end up.
Q. No question it was tougher conditions with the breeze. You were minus 4 on the par-5s with a 64; plus 1 on the par-5s and a 70. That obviously was a huge difference?
JT POSTON: Yeah, like I said, the par-5s are the scoring holes. I felt like the first round you had some pretty accessible pins and the winds were helping you get there in two on most of them.
Today it was a little bit tougher to do that. You only really got one easier pin on No. 3, so it made it a little bit tougher.
Q. Best-ever round here. Just evaluate your round for us today.
JT POSTON: Yeah, finished up the first round; got off to a start yesterday afternoon before the delay, and came back this morning and kind of got it going again.
Shot 8-under, which is obviously a great round around in any golf course.
And then this afternoon, the second round was -- I didn't quite hit it as good, but I would say the conditions were a little tougher. The wind was up a little bit more than yesterday. It just made it a little bit trickier I thought.
So 70, I felt like could have maybe been a couple shots lower, but I'm happy with it.
Q. Speaking of conditions, you've played here in years prior. How has the date change and the conditions change helped you?
JT POSTON: Well, it's hotter so the ball goes further. You know, that makes this golf course -- it's not necessarily a long golf course for us, but it makes it that much shorter.
I would say the rough is up and makes it tricky, and the greens are always some of the best greens we play on. So I would say putting usually a strength of mine.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT