THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 15, 2019
JT Poston
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Just get some quick comments about your round today.  It seemed to go pretty well.
JT POSTON: Yeah, it was good.  I hit it really good tee to green, hit a lot of fairways, and I think I only missed one green, so that's always nice around here.  Greens are small, pins are in some tough places and it just makes for a pretty stress-free round.  So hopefully this weekend make a few more putts and see where I end up.
Q. Talk about the course conditions here, how has the course been playing?
JT POSTON: It's good.  I think that in the afternoon the wind picks up a little bit and greens can get a little firmer, a little crustier, and that makes it a little bit tougher to get it close to the hole.  We kind of dealt with that a little bit yesterday, but in the morning it's not as windy, it's a little softer, and you can really kind of attack some of those pins.  But, yeah, it all depends on the weather, really.
Q. Being a first timer here, how has the experience been?
JT POSTON: It's been great.  PLAYERS is obviously very high on the list of tournaments you want to play in and it's a great event, so it's been a great event so far and, yeah, pretty excited about two more days.
Q. Any specific goals for the weekend?  What are you hoping for?
JT POSTON: Yeah, obviously win.  Everybody's trying to win.  I'm not scared to say that.  It's easy to, I guess, get ahead of yourself a little bit and there's a lot of golf left and a lot of guys still got to play this afternoon, so we'll see where we end up.  I'm just going to try to keep hitting it like I am and make a few more putts.
Q. Having played in THE PLAYERS now how does that change your career and the way you look at your career?
JT POSTON: It's a step in the right direction.  My first couple years on TOUR I didn't keep my card my rookie year and last year I was playing out of the conditional category, so to be fully exempt and to be here it's definitely a step in the right direction, but hopefully from here on out we are here every year.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT