TMS MONTE CARLO
April 24, 2004
Marat Safin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.


Q.  Marat, you asked for the trainer, I think, in the first set.  What was the problem?

MARAT SAFIN:  I have a big  -- not a big, just a blister that was bothering me.  So I take painkillers and antiinflammatories so it doesn't bother me.

Q.  Was it a problem during the set or..?

MARAT SAFIN:  No, but just I started to feel it because I didn't take before the match, so I had to take during the match so I just don't think about it.

Q.  You are very used to play clay courters.  I mean, you trained in Spain.  Why is Coria different than the others, or is he a typical clay courter?

MARAT SAFIN:  No, doesn't do anything like just make the difference between the Spanish and Argentinians.  He plays pretty similar tennis.  He is full of confidence, that's it.  I had my opportunities today.  I was a little bit unlucky in the first set, the third set.  But also for me it's difficult to play against these kind of guys.  I have to step in on the court, and when it's like the courts are not really in conditions to  -- I don't feel secure, you know.  Every time I had to play the ball fast, it come back down.  So for me it's difficult.  So I have to go back and play a little bit longer rallies with them, and it's difficult for me to beat them.  So just the only chance you can beat them is just inside, playing inside the court and playing fast. 

Q.  Do you have to improve your net game a little bit to know you can volley more?

MARAT SAFIN:  No, but just because you have to look for the net.  I mean, it doesn't matter if you make mistakes because also, you know, is a kind of a player that you have to place it really good, the volley, otherwise he can pass you very easily.  But also, in order to look for the net, you need to like to play a fast game.  Couldn't just make rallies and all of a sudden go to the net.  You need to prepare.  Today just I was a little bit upset because I couldn't, I couldn't do it, I couldn't play faster.  Because every time I tried to step in and play fast, it was a bad bounce so it was like the ball wasn't  -- I could not control perfect.   And I was feeling a little bit insecure, you know, in my shots.  For example, on backhand and on forehand.  Every time I have it like ball in the middle of the court, just suddenly, you know, I make a  -- so we have to place it really good, really close to the lines.

Q.  The last two or three games, the ball was coming off your racquet, it didn't seem like you were going through totally confident with those shots. 

MARAT SAFIN:  That's the thing, because the bounce.  Because every time, you know, you expect for the ball to come normally, just have a strange bounce.  Or basically every time I saw the short ball to come to him, just was far away.

Q.  Is it the particular ball that they're using this week?

MARAT SAFIN:  No, it's just the courts. 

Q.  Just the courts?

MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah.  I can blame easily the courts.  Everybody's complaining and everybody's like having really difficult time.  Me, particularly against these players in the semifinals, it's really bothers me because of that. 

Q.  At the start of the third set, was that where you were having..?

MARAT SAFIN:  No, it was the first set, you know.  Like for example in the second game when I had Love-40, twice it touched the line and didn't bounce.  Third time it was just  -- so it's just like all the time it's coming more and more.  So once you get too many of them, you get little bit upset. 

Q.  What did you say to Guillermo at the end?  You seemed to have a chat with him.

MARAT SAFIN:  No, just I said, "Well done," and "Congratulations," and "Good luck in your next round."  He said something about, "Sorry I was waving my hands..."  I don't know.  I don't know what he was talking about. 

Q.  You didn't know what it's about?

MARAT SAFIN:  I don't know, but it's okay (laughter).  No, we behaved really good on the court, no problems.  We had no problems.  He was quite fair.  It was nice to play against him.

Q.  You had three net cords went against you as well fairly quickly  - one from him that deflected, and then two that hit the top of the net and went back to your side.  Did you feel things weren't going your way then?

MARAT SAFIN:  No, was just I had an opportunity, yeah, like, in the third set when I was on a deuce.  So I went to the net, and all of a sudden he pass me and touched the net.  So basically the ball was mine. Again it was deuce, and I tried, I went for the backhand shot.  That touched the net, didn't go on the other side.  So it's like little bit frustrated but... But at least I tried.  It's not like -- if it would go my way, so it would be the same score but on my side.

Q.  Not a bad start to the clay court season?

MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, it's great.  I can't complain.  It's really a pity to not be in the finals, but the way I'm playing is great.  He was a little bit luckier today than me.  But I'm satisfied.  I will catch him another time (smiling). 

Q.  If you weren't playing against him, is Coria the sort of player you'd like to watch?  Is he a good player to watch, entertaining?

MARAT SAFIN:  Well, is not for me to judge, you know, if he is entertaining or not.  I mean, if the spectators, they like him, then it's great for me.  But I'm not really a spectator, I'm his business partner (laughter).  It's little bit of a different story. 

Q.  What do you need to do to be at your top for the French now? 

MARAT SAFIN:  No, keep continuing like this, and I will have more opportunities to win one of the next two Masters Series tournaments.  And if I continue like this, I think I'm really playing very well.  I can work on some things, just to improve a little bit.  But it's  -- I'm getting really, really in shape.  And then the French Open, it will be  -- then it's five sets, and I'll play five sets, I'll have time.  It's enough time to correct the mistakes in a slow match.  You have a lot of opportunities to come back. 

Q.  What about him in five sets?  Do you think for Roland Garros, because, you know, he is a small one...

MARAT SAFIN:  Well, for him, I think it's a little bit difficult, while he is really in shape.  He doesn't serve big, really good.  It's not like a powerful serve.  He doesn't get really free points, a lot of free points.  He has to work every point, and he has to run a lot.  He has to build up very much.  But he's in really good shape.  He'll be interest.  But in five sets, I think it will be  -- in this case, I would be the favorite. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT