TMS MONTE CARLO
April 23, 2004
Marat Safin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Marat, please.  
 
 
Q.  From the seats, it was a strange match.  You looked in control of the match when it first started, then everything went bad, then you came back.  What happened exactly? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  No, but just a little bit difficult for me to play after the matches that I played against Mirnyi and Arthurs, then to go and completely change the game, to switch and to play also great match against Martin.  Because, yeah, you can play one set, but then he start to get used to the fast, fast rallies.  So the only thing he could try to do is to make me play an extra ball.  So it also is, for me, is difficult to adjust myself.  So I little bit had the match in control.  I breaked in the second set, first game.  But then he start to play better.  He started to miss less.  I was trying maybe to go for too much.  I start to rush a little bit.  But then by the time I realize it, it was already the end of the second set.  I tried.  He played well.   And the third set I just had to hold my serve and wait for the opportunity and take it.  
 
Q.  Towards the end of the second set you were touching your back.  Did you have problems or..?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  No, just a little bit of recharge.  Because for two weeks, a lot of matches.  So it's kind of... No problem.  
 
Q.  You stay in Monte-Carlo?  You live in Monte -Carlo?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, whenever I can.  
 
Q.  Where exactly? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Upstairs, in Park St. Roman. 
 
Q.  So you just walk from there?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  No, but I stay in the hotel. 
 
Q.  Yes?  Why?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Because the hotel room is bigger than my apartment (laughter).  
 
Q.  What is most difficult for you on clay, to adjust to clay?  You played a lot on clay when you were very young.  What is it?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, but it's, for everybody, is a big change.  You have to play an extra few balls.  You have to prepare more the point.  You cannot just play fast shot and go to the net and whatever, and wait for the short ball.  Here, we have to play.  You make him run, and you have to wait, wait, wait.  You cannot just make winners all over the court because it's a little bit slower, the bounce is little bit higher.  The serve doesn't work this way like it works on the hard courts.  So you have to play, you have to be consistent, you have to be focused a little bit more and wait for an extra ball, because it's always coming back.  You have to finish the point, like, properly. 
 
Q.  What is difficult for you?  Is it the concentration more than the physical part or technical part? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Just be, you know, be focused during all the match because the match is very long and the other opponent has a lot of opportunities to come back because it's very slow, so he also thinks.  And, you know, it takes time.   On hard courts maybe it's very fast because it's just fast, fast, and two points and one bad return from him and just one double-fault and I play a good shot, and that's it, the game is over.  
 
Q.  So next  - Coria or Nalbandian.  What can you say about that? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  They're pretty similar players.  They're playing the same , all the same game.  They attack whenever they can, they like to control the point, they don't like to be dominated.  And of course they are running fast, they have very good  -- well, good legs, good hands.  So you have to be  -- but it's a kind of similar Spanish style.  You have to push them and be in control of all the match from the beginning.  Otherwise, it's a little bit difficult.  Because once they start to be confident and then it's difficult to turn the other way around. 
 
Q.  Are you ready physically?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah.  Semifinals, it's a great motivation for me to get into the finals. 
 
Q.  First time?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, so it's good.  So I hope I have a little bit of luck tomorrow, I'll have more opportunities that I can finish in two sets.  But just have to be really, really focused for that, have to really play well, have to serve well, be consistent to not make a lot of unforced errors, be there all the match.  
 
Q.  Do you get the feeling, Marat, that this could be a very good year for you?  Are you beginning to feel in yourself that this could be a good time? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, well, just... 
 
Q.  You give that impression. 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  You cannot be so sure, you know, the year is gonna be really good for you.  Because once you start to feel this , once you start to have this feeling, you have bad luck or you're not playing  -- you start to play not really well, you have bad draws.  So you never know.  For example, me, I had  -- for all the months of February, I had Federer first round, Roddick I had, and so it wasn't like really they beat me, it was just a matter of two points  - 7-6, 7-6 against Federer.  Roddick was a little bit lucky in the first set, so in the second set I felt a little bit frustrated so I didn't play.  These kind of matches, they cut your motivation.  
 
Q.  Yeah. 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  But once it's starting all over again, played well in Estoril, playing well here.  Will try to have a rest next week, then Rome, Hamburg and French Open and then slow down a little bit, prepare for the grass, a big tournament in Wimbledon, and we'll see how it's gonna go. Then I will take a few months  -- a few weeks off before the big  -- before I go to the States. 
 
Q.  It seems as though you're enjoying it, you're getting a lot of enjoyment out of it. 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  You have to prepare.  You have to prepare a little bit.  It has to be  -- of course if you don't enjoy it, it's really difficult for me to play.  Just it's really difficult.  Otherwise, sometimes it's a little bit boring.  So you have to make it very interesting for yourself not to get bored, because it's really difficult job and it's really difficult thing to travel around the world and living in a  -- traveling with a suitcase and living in hotel rooms.  So you have to make it interesting.  
 
Q.  You have to be motivated?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Of course.  If you are winning, it's great.  But whenever you have two big losses, then it's like everything goes down and you have to really push yourself a little bit to work on something.  It's tough, but...  
 
Q.  Do you think that you take losses harder than most?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Not anymore.  Not anymore.  Yeah, I'm get frustrated on the court whenever I'm losing; everybody does.  But outside the court I am taking very easy right now because my time will come.  Whenever I have the opportunities, I will take them.  Everybody will lose some day.  There's no chance to win all the time.  There's no chance that you're gonna play great tennis during all the year.  Sometimes you have really bad losses to the people that you shouldn't lose in a thousand years.  It's gonna happen.  It's gonna happen to everybody for some circumstances.  So you have to accept this.  It's a part of the job. 
 
Q.  You talk a lot about frustration.  For someone young and with a great potential like you, is a word important.  Can you explain to me the difference between the frustration of losing or not being able to play, to win, against someone you think you are better than; and playing against someone like Federer or Roddick, you feel you are the same level, and you lose for one ball, two balls.  What is the difference between the two situations? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  You can... No, because against Federer, Roddick, it's kind of  -- is a big player, and you gonna play well, you know that.  Because it's just  it's a kind of a challenge.  It's already motivate you, it's already giving you extra power, and you want to beat him.  It's a kind of a challenge.  But once you play against the players you think you have to win, you have to find this thing in case something goes wrong.  For example, today, for me, it was  -- I beat him five times.  And for me, it's like I knew that I have to win  - I mean, that I have to win.  So once you are winning 6-3, 1-0 and you really want to finish it, just make it short, make it two sets, "Thank you very much, Bye-bye," then comes the problems when he start to play better, and you are keep on going faster and faster, you know, to finish, because you really want to finish.  You don't want to stay here for three sets, you don't want to suffer in the third set, in case he gonna play well, you gonna miss a few shots, he start to play unbelievable shots.  You don't want to get to this point.  So you get frustrated with yourself.  You see it, and for some reason you cannot get it.  You miss by a little bit, you miss little bit there, little bit there.  He played well one ball, and it's, like, unacceptable sometimes from my mind but... But that's really difficult, because you have to understand that other people, they know how to play tennis also. 
 
Q.  He was playing well. 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  He played a great match.  But just this kind of tennis, it just make you a little bit nervous.  Because really, I understand  -- I started to understand better the game over the years.  And you know what's gonna happen, you see it coming.  And when it comes, you get frustrated by that because you see it coming.  
 
Q.  What is the way to cope with that?  Is it to stick to the basics, say, "Move your feet, watch the ball, hit cross-court..." Things like that?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, but sometimes, you know, like you go, because it's your nature.  You don't fight the nature, you know.  It's like nature, you don't want to go down the line, but you go.  It just like automatically calls for it.  You miss it.  Then you say to yourself, "I shouldn't have done that."  But once you don't miss it, so that's normal.  But once you miss it, that's not normal.  So these kind of things.  I also speak to guys like Henman or Costa, and I say, "Is it true once you are young, you have no fear, you are playing the matches and you don't understand anything basically about tennis.  You are playing and you don't care about the score."  But now you start with the time, you start to... 
 
Q.  You start to lose your innocence? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  No, but...just, yeah.  You lose your virginity.  Once you start to know, understand tennis really good, you see, you can predict what's gonna happen.  So that's why sometimes you choke, sometimes you start to be scared, that's why when you only play against the young guys you don't play really good tennis, and then you start to play and win ugly.  But it's like this.  
 
Q.  Then you win if you take some risk?  So it comes again. 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, it's all coming back.  
 
Q.  It's like life. 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, exactly.  There is nothing... Don't fight the nature.  Don't fight it. 
 
Q.  So you're not surprised, then, that Henman is playing the way he's playing at the moment?  It's not a surprise to you how well he's playing.
 
MARAT SAFIN:  He improved.  He improved really much.  I already told him that he's playing really good game.  Before, I told him, he was really bad on clay.  Yeah, few years ago, he didn't know how to play on clay.  Now, he really improved.  He can play from the baseline.  He can, you know, do rallies, and also to play.  That's why he's in the semifinals  -- or in the quarterfinals.  He has a big chance to win today.  
 
Q.  You said you have to make it interesting if you want to stay in tennis.  How do you make it interesting except talking to us (smiling)?  What is the way to make it interesting? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I need to  -- depends.  Everybody has own hobbies or own philosophy of life.  Maybe it's just -- I mean, sometimes when you are too many weeks on the tour, too many weeks, you just have to just have a few days off, just not to go to the courts, walk around the city  - wherever city you are  - I mean, there's some cities you cannot go anywhere because there is nothing (laughter).  But these cities, you try to practice as hard as you can just to kill the time. But it's really difficult.  Sometimes you need a couple of days just to forget about everything, just enjoy it, and not coming to the courts, don't even touch the racquet.  Then when you come back, it's little bit easy for you to start all over because it's not anymore physical, it's not anymore about  -- it's more mental, more than nothing.  Just whenever you have the brain is like free and it feels comfortable, then it's much easier to play. 
 
Q.  So how can you explain a situation like Agassi and Navratilova?  They still there, they still doing practice and moving and doing...
 
MARAT SAFIN:  That's what I'm saying.  Everybody has different mentality.  I'm not  -- I'm really surprised that he can push himself at the age of 34  - running, playing five sets in Grand Slams, and be there and play great tennis.  Probably that's  -- he really can't live without it. 
 
Q.  Maybe because in Las Vegas there is nothing to do (laughter)? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Well, otherwise, you gamble or...(laughter).  
 
Q.  Lose money.
 
MARAT SAFIN:  So it's better to make money than to lose money (smiling).  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT