TMS MONTE CARLO
April 22, 2004
Marat Safin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  It's always strange to play a guy like Arthurs on clay?

MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, a little bit.  Very difficult, is very difficult for me to play against him  - actually, for everybody to play on hard courts, indoors, grass.  But on clay, it's completely different story.  He really serves well.  But for him, here, it's too slow so he cannot play. 

Q.  You were playing some good variation shots in the second set.  Were you happy with your shot-playing? 

MARAT SAFIN:  You try to do everything.  You try to get all the balls back so it doesn't get complicated.  So basically you do whatever you want.  If it becomes a good shot, great for me.  But you try to put all the returns back, let him play from the rally, because it can get very complicated and then it's difficult to play. 

Q.  You're surrounded by Argentinians in the top half of the draw.  What do you think, is it more difficult than the lower part? 

MARAT SAFIN:  But I don't know.

Q.  You have Calleri, Coria...

MARAT SAFIN:  Calleri beat Martin? 

Q.  Martin's winning.  Martin was serving for the match.  Sorry. 

MARAT SAFIN:  Still, I have one match to go to meet the  -- they gonna have a difficult match, still.   Nalbandian, I don't know if he gonna beat Santoro.  Then Coria has to play against the winner of them.  So still long way to go.

Q.  You played Mirnyi and now Arthurs, different kind of players.  Now you have to adjust to the clay. 

MARAT SAFIN:  Different kind of players?

Q.  Very different. 

MARAT SAFIN:  From each other or from other players?

Q.  No, from the other.

MARAT SAFIN:  It's good.  It's better to get through this way than making a lot of kilometers against Argentinians or Spanish.

Q.  You're starting a new tournament now.

MARAT SAFIN:  Yep.  I hope it will be successful. 

Q.  Are you surprised about the results of Davydenko?  I mean, he's beating everybody very easily. 

MARAT SAFIN:  This guy is very, very strange.  I mean, he can play great tennis but then all of a sudden he can lose to anybody.  But I think he has great hands, very fast.  I mean, he's very skinny, but he's really, really fast guy and he really plays well.  I mean, he beat very easy Corretja.  He beat very easy Ljubicic.  So he must be playing well.  Who he plays next round? 

Q.  Either Moya or Chela. 

MARAT SAFIN:  Well, it's tough match, Moya or Chela.  He can give trouble to any of them.  It's gonna be interesting match tomorrow also. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT