TMS - MADRID
October 14, 2003
Marat Safin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Marat, please.  
 
 
Q.  It looks as if the year is still not being very kind to you. 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah.  But is the way it is, so I have to take care, take it slow, try not to get upset too much because I've been out for a long time, for six months.  So is difficult to come back and start winning matches because you lose everything.  You lose the movement on the court, you lose the eye, you lose the confidence, you lose everything.  Then when you come back, you start to picking up all these small things step by step.  So for me at least I make three sets today, and I was very close to win the match.  Unfortunately, because of my confidence, I'm a little bit too slow on the court, I don't see the ball, so that's why I problems, you know, like playing from the baseline, going to the net.  I don't see the point.  I cannot read the other player.  
 
Q.  Can you remind us exactly what was the injury?  Was it one injury, two injuries? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I had two injuries, but the same thing.  Then I twist my ankle.  I was out for a month.  But last time I was out for six months, so...  
 
Q.  Could you describe the injuries and how they happened? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  The same thing.  Backhand, other time backhand.  I had a cut in the ligaments.  I broke -- the problem is with the meniscus inside, in my wrist, and also cartilage.  It was broken.  I had some injections over there.  It took a completely different shape, the cartilage.  So they had to put in a same way, the same shape how it was.  That's why I had to wear a cast for a month.  Then I had to make the exercises.  Basically I'm playing for three weeks.  So it's very difficult to come back, especially to guys that have been playing for all the year.  
 
Q.  Did you already feel any improvement through these two weeks or three weeks?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Slowly, but my improvement will be when I win my first match.  But I'm looking forward.  Still two tournaments left.  But I'm definitely not in a best shape.  It's difficult for me.  It's coming too fast, so I have to take it easy.  That's why I'm trying not to get upset too much when I lose, because is not magic, you know, to come back from injury, start away straight win matches.  But I'm preparing myself for the next year.  This year is definitely not my year.  I was not lucky at all.  With my injuries, my results, yeah, I had all these things.  
 
Q.  Did you feel upset for a little while today on court and then perhaps get control of it? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, but I was a little bit upset with my foot faults.  I was upset.  They were very close calls, which makes a lot of difference.  Always 15-30, always 30-15.  Small things which makes the big difference, you know.  Point there, point here, overrule over there.  It's coming like point there, point there.  Is like basically all the time you're under pressure.  And for me every point counts like two points, because every point that I'm winning, it's really difficult for me.  I'm counting point by point.  When they take out from you, so then that's hurts.  
 
Q.  If you have an injury-free year next year, how successful do you think you could be?  What realistic aims do you have for next year? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I hope I'm not get injured.  But if I will get injured, I have no other thing than take care of it. 
 
Q.  But if you are injury-free throughout the year... 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Then it's up to me.  Yeah, my game, if I can find my game straightaway, if I will be able to get in a good shape, make the good pre-season program, get my confidence back, because I'm completely out of confidence.  If I can get it back, I can be dangerous.  But still, you know, it's the next year.  This year is not finished.  I hope I'll be alive for next year.  
 
Q.  Do you still have any pain at all on the court?  Do the doctors say it's totally safe to play a hundred percent?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, no problem.  I'm playing.  I don't have any pain.  Sometimes when I hit with the frame, it's vibrations.  But I can play, no problem.  I just lose a little bit completely the movement, you know, how to hit the ball, you know, just the confidence from the shots.  This is the most important thing for me right now.  I can serve, I can return, but the baseline I'm shaky a little bit because I don't see it, I don't feel it, no timing.  So that's what I need to get back.  
 
Q.  When you see this year, Ferrero, Federer, Roddick winning the last three Grand Slams, do you watch that and feel that you should be there, part of that group, the new generation?  Are you frustrated?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  No, why not?  They deserve these guys, they deserve to be there.  I mean, I had my times three years ago.  I was the same like them, but they're already same age (smiling).  We're in the same situation.  But I'll be back for next year.  I hope I can fight with them.  I'll be fighting with them for No. 1.  This year, it's all theirs.  But the next year, I'll be also there.  I'll be really dangerous.  
 
Q.  There's been a lot of publicity this week following the story about the betting.  What has been the general reaction of the players?  Is it one of astonishment, in a way sort of almost chuckling at the way other people are taking advantage or what?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, but the thing is just rumors, just talking.  Basically I have my own problems to take care of.  You know, there's rumors that they're writing on the papers.  There is nothing.  So is basically I have my own problems to take care of.  If somebody has to say something, they should say.  But there is like some comments of John Lloyd was also good.  I read the article, it was good (smiling).  He never knew how to play tennis, I think, but he's judging.  It's okay.  
 
Q.  Have you had any doubts about any match? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I never had doubts about anything.  I never saw it.  Of course, there is like some suspicious, as everybody thinks.  But personally, I don't know.  
 
Q.  Earlier in the year, Brad Gilbert said that only two players would make him come back on the tour as a coach:  Andy Roddick and Marat Safin.  I don't know whether you heard him say that.  What do you think of that comment?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  The only thing that I heard is just he said that I'm injured completely on my brain, which didn't give me any respect to myself.  He should take care of Andy, he's doing really good job, and just leave me alone.  That's the only suggestion I can give him.  And he's doing really good job, so why to break my balls?  
 
Q.  What is your coaching situation now?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I'm satisfied with my coaching situation.  I'm great.  There is no issues with the coach.  Definitely I'm not asking for the opinion of other coaches to speak about me.  This is the way he spoke.  That's definitely not really nice from him.  
 
Q.  But you're not looking for somebody else?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  No, no, I'm not looking.  I'm not going to look for anybody.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT