AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 16, 2003
Marat Safin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions for Marat. 


Q.  How do you feel after that sort of a match?

MARAT SAFIN:  Good.  One more match behind, playing better, feeling better.  So just nothing special still. 

Q.  What positive did you get out of your game today?

MARAT SAFIN:  That I won is the most positive thing.  Just won my match, that's it.  Next match  -- we'll see what happen next match.

Q.  Your serve seemed to be really back in the groove today. 

MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, really (laughter)? 

Q.  Have you been doing anything extra? 

MARAT SAFIN:  Just, you know  -- just I try to watch out the serve, the motion.  No, just the toss, I was trying to throw the ball in the right spot so I don't have to, you know, like  -- I don't have to use too much my shoulder, I mean, like to use the power so is going to be the good motion.  So just I go with the swing.

Q.  Are you still having much treatment on it?

MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, every day.  Every day spend some time in the doctor's room and just making some exercises, getting better. 

Q.  How much better is it feeling?  Do you think it's going to continue?

MARAT SAFIN:  It's going away completely.  Slowly going away.  Every day is much better and better.  So hopefully for next match, I'll be perfectly. 

Q.  How would you sum up the week so far, bearing in mind you were a little uncertain coming in how the shoulder would stand up?

MARAT SAFIN:  No, slowly, it's good.  It's the first week, so basically is not a big deal.  But still, you know, every match I'm going to play, it's a tough one.  And I'm trying to use less power, less energy, so I'll be okay for second week.  I'm thinking about the second week.  But every match that I'm playing, it's a tough one, and I'm trying to do my best.  For the moment is working.  I have a next tough opponent, Schuettler, so just I will try to be concentrated from the beginning and try to give all my best and let's see how it's going.

Q.  What sort of record do you have with Schuettler?

MARAT SAFIN:  Schuettler, I don't remember.  We played I think once in the finals of St.  Petersburg and I beat him in three sets. 

Q.  Russian tennis is on a high right now.  Can you pinpoint a reason for this?  You have the Davis Cup, a lot of young players coming through. 

MARAT SAFIN:  For the last couple years have been big boom in Moscow, in Russia.  Everybody's playing tennis  - a lot of kids, even politicians, businessmen, everybody who can just likes tennis, everybody's trying to play tennis.  They have coaches.  Even the old people, they have coaches.  The professionals try to  -- you know, they come to you, they ask you what you should do, how you have to play.  They're playing doubles.  That's good.  It's a nice atmosphere.  A lot of indoor courts has been constructed.  I think is good.  Also we have a lot of girls, you know, in top hundred.  I don't know how many.  It seems like to me we're playing in Russia.  All the girls are here.  Is not the same situation with the guys.  We have only four or five in top hundred, which is not  -- I think we can have much more, for example, like Spanish players, they are like 14.  But for sure they going to come some young Juniors, and they'll be there.

Q.  What's the secret that there's so many?

MARAT SAFIN:  I don't know.  Just thanks to Yevgeny, thanks to Boris Yeltsin kind of because he started with all these things.  You know, he started to play tennis.  Since then, the people, they start to like it.

Q.  Is there a big change in the quality of the facilities since when you were there until now?

MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, big change.  You cannot even compare.

Q.  Doesn't compare?

MARAT SAFIN:  No, you can't compare.  Is just completely different.  If I'm telling you before, we're talking about '94, there were no  -- basically no  -- it was really impossible to get the Head racquets.  So now you can buy it everywhere.  On every corner I can buy the racquets.  You can buy anything, balls, racquets, clothes, not a problem.  But before, it was really impossible.

Q.  In the first set early you grabbed at your back, what was that?

MARAT SAFIN:  It was kind of stiff.  I was a little bit stiff.  So I'm working on my back all the time, because at the end of last season I start to have problems with my back because I'm tall.  Tall people, they have problems, you know.  It's normal.  So I'm trying to work.  I didn't stretch too well, so that's why sort of it was a little bit uncomfortable.

Q.  Is it made worse by the shoulder?

MARAT SAFIN:  No, no, no.  It has nothing to do.  Just trying to work a lot with my back, and that's it, so I don't have any problems in the future.

Q.  Are you enjoying the tournament, or is it a bit of a job? 

MARAT SAFIN:  Of course, I'm enjoying, otherwise I would not come here.  Already I can decide what I want to do in my life.  I came here, I want to win, and I want to do well.  But sometimes it's difficult.  Everybody playing great tennis, you know.  Even Montanes, which is not hard court specialist, he can give you trouble.  So you have to be focused all the time.  It's tough.  It's tough.  It's difficult because I'm kind of nervous and I want to do well, so it's like a little difficult to play your best tennis.  But I'm on the way.

Q.  Your sister is coming along very well.  Have you been giving her any secrets, any help?

MARAT SAFIN:  No.  She has a coach.  She knows what she has to do.  I don't want to be involved, you know.  Just I should take care of myself.

Q.  Does she ever tell you what to do?

MARAT SAFIN:  Still not.  No thanks. 

Q.  Have you seen any of Agassi or Hewitt at this tournament on TV?  Agassi impressed a lot of people yesterday.  Your thoughts on where the title might be heading off to? 

MARAT SAFIN:  It's great, very impressive, but I don't really  -- he's in good form.  What I can say?  He's in great shape, he's physically strong, concentrated.  He came here with the family.  He has to do well here.  The guy is playing, he's enjoying.  He's 32 years old and he wants to do well.  It's great.  He find the motivation to play at the age of 32, so great. 

Q.  You said in Sydney last week you didn't know whether he would be able to be No.  1 this year at his age, to get back to No.  1.  Do you think he has the stamina, the fitness, to win this tournament? 

MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, but by winning this tournament, you're not going to become a No.  1 at the end of the season.  Doesn't mean.  He can win this tournament, why not?  But there is like another people who wants to win also.  So maybe they're not playing their great tennis at the moment, but they will get much better in the second week and they can be more dangerous, you know.  So we'll see.  It's just we passed two rounds.  You cannot judge the people by just playing two matches.  You cannot say that you're going to win for sure the tournament.  You never know.  One day is another day coming, another match, and it will not be the same like the first one, and the second one is not going to be like the third one.  You don't know.  But the guy for the moment is playing great.  Let's see what's going to happen in the second week - if he'll get there.  Of course, let's see if he can play this same level of tennis during all the year.  It's really difficult.  One tournament is one tournament, but all the year, it's completely different thing.  You have to be in shape.  He's not a 22-year-old guy.  It's really tough at this stage to be focused, be in great shape, that's for sure.

Q.  What about Yevgeny?  What is on his mind?

MARAT SAFIN:  Ask Yevgeny what is on his mind.  Why should I know? 

Q.  Because he's Russian. 

MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, but I don't really  -- his life, ask him.  Because me, I don't know what he wants to do, what he has on his mind.  I think even himself, he doesn't know what he wants.  So you want me to tell you?  I really don't know, really. 

Q.  You say it's tough at your age.  What's the toughest thing about it, the physical or mental side for you?

MARAT SAFIN:  Both things.  You know, because now tennis is getting more and more physical, and you have to be really, really in good shape to be able, like I said before, to play during all the year, really prepared mentally, you know, for a long run, because you can play one tournament well and then you play five not so good, and then you lose points, you drop in the ranking.  So you need to be prepared.  So what I'm trying to do.  I have nothing to do.  I play my tennis.  I try to concentrate every tournament I play, and let's see how it's going.  For the moment, it's working.  You know, I didn't lose a match this year, so it's not bad (smiling).

Q.  You were saying the revival in Russian tennis began with Boris Yeltsin.  You said he played.  Was he a good player?  Did you have a hit with him?  Is that what you meant, or did you mean he spent a lot of money on tennis?

MARAT SAFIN:  No, he was a player.  He used to play tennis.  I mean, he used to play tennis, like amateur, not like a professional guy.

Q.  Did you ever play with him?

MARAT SAFIN:  No, no, no, no.

Q.  Maybe a doubles player?

MARAT SAFIN:  The people, for this kind of people, they like to play doubles.  You don't have to run too much.  At least you can talk with your partner.  You know, they take it easy, not like the tennis players that they have to stretch, you have to think, change your shirt, energy drink.  The guy, he's having fun.

Q.  (Inaudible) he drinks to me. 

MARAT SAFIN:  I will tell him.  What is your name (laughter)? 

Q.  Are there people playing for leisure as much as for competition?  Is it just as much popular now for a leisure game, not so much people that want to get competitive?

MARAT SAFIN:  Again? 

Q.  Are many people wanting to play for fun, as for leisure?

MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, they're playing just for fun.  They put money.  They take, for example, tennis players, the professional tennis player , let's put it this way, guys like 500, 700, and they play amateur with a professional.  They play against each other, they put some money, they have fun.  Why not?  You play, but you play for something.  For example, if you play for Coke, they're playing for whatever money it is, just to pay the dinner.

Q.  In Russia, is tennis more for the rich or is it open to everyone?

MARAT SAFIN:  Like everywhere, everybody can afford it right now, everybody. 

Q.  What do you think of the Masters in Shanghai last November?  There will be another ATP event in Beijing in September.  Do you plan to play that?

MARAT SAFIN:  We're in 16 of January, man.  16 of January, I don't know if I will be alive tomorrow.  Don't ask me what's going to be in September.  I really liked Shanghai, really nice place.  I was really impressed.  I never been in China before.  Really it was a great organization.  The people, they really work hard to do that tournament.  Let's see.  If they have the same organization in Beijing, for sure it's really going to be nice tournaments and you have great players.  It's the first time I hear there's a tournament there, so I will have it on my mind. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT