adidas International
January 8, 2003
Marat Safin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  
 
 
Q.  The first set was strange (inaudible). 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  (Inaudible).  He just played great in the first set.  Second set, he just made a few errors, I got some confidence.  
 
Q.  It looked like you had problems moving in the first set.  Was it the heat?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, but it's tough conditions.  It's windy, you know, you don't know where the ball is going, too hot.  It's tough to play.  
 
Q.  Are you worried about the sweltering nature of the climate?  Five sets when you get to Melbourne.  Are you worried about the conditions here draining you?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  It's good conditions to practice, the heat, windy.  So it can't be any worse.  I think it's great place to practice for that. 
 
Q.  So you say a good place to practice?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, yeah.  Tough conditions.  It's difficult to play, but it's great for practice.  
 
Q.  How hot was it compared with other times you've played? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  One of the hottest I think.  Maybe Cincinnati, it's also difficult to play.  It's just too hot.  If you go to play (inaudible), but if you get used to this kind of weather, then you play anyway. 
 
Q.  What do you personally do to bring your body temperature down?  Do you shower, take an ice bath, what?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Just enough is air conditioning (inaudible).  First few minutes, it's really, really hot.  So you take a shower or just  -- I think it's cool shower is good.  
 
Q.  What is the main problem?  Is simply breathing when it is that hot?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Not breathe, just it's the atmosphere.  It's difficult to  -- it's just hot.  Your muscles, you are quite slow on court.  (Inaudible).  Your brain is not like ...  When it's cold, at least you can  -- when it's not so warm, you can think.  But here, you just want to finish the point quickly and you want to get out of the court (inaudible).  To run for long points, it's difficult.  That's why you try to make them quick.  
 
Q.  Is it a claustrophobic feeling?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, you just want to get out of there.  
 
Q.  You still have to play doubles today?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, long day (inaudible).  
 
Q.  After a couple of matches, you're reasonably happy then, are you, with the way it's going?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah.  If I can play the same way, it would be great.  Just, you know, every time it's tougher and tougher, so...  But I think too much (inaudible).  I'm prepared, I think, for the Australian. 
 
Q.  You're keeping the foot fault judge on his toes, I noticed.
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, but I think last time I went for too much.  He said I foot fault this way.  Even if you want to make foot fault, you cannot make such a big foot fault (inaudible), but that's okay.  
 
Q.  Certainly the one was so close (inaudible). 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, but this much doesn't make any difference, you know, doesn't make any difference.  He can make  -- (inaudible).  This much doesn't make any difference.  
 
Q.  Do you think a couple years ago in a match like that where it's hot, you were down a set, you would have been capable of fighting back? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, but it's  -- I don't know if I would get (inaudible).  Probably yes, but it's tough. 
 
Q.  Is that something you've been developing, a steeliness?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  (Inaudible).  I'm growing up.  I'm going to be 23 now.  I have to mature somehow. 
 
Q.  What will you do in between now and the doubles match to keep cool?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Just have some food.  Have some food, stay inside (inaudible).  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT