TMS - MADRID
October 15, 2002
Marat Safin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Can you talk about the match. 

MARAT SAFIN:  I had chances in the first set.  In the second one, I was 5-4 in the tiebreak.  It went to 5-4.  He played an incredible ace there.  He played a very good volley.  One ace and one volley, those two points, I was overwhelmed by those two points, especially coming from him, because he doesn't have such a good volley.  The match was taken away from me.  It's quite hard for me to take this defeat.  Also the surface is a bit strange.  I can't figure out how the ball bounces.  I played quite flat, and this ball flies up a lot.  In the second set, I really think I played better than him, but he had those two shots that were decisive.  If we had gone to a third set, I think I would have been able to have won the match, but it's too late now.  In the last weeks, I've been playing quite well.  It's a pity I had to face Calleri in the first round.  It was unfortunate for me.  Although, in the second set, I should have won that second set.  The third set would have come easier.   Didn't give me the chance to go to a third. 

Q.  What do you think about your position for the Masters Cup? 

MARAT SAFIN:  Well, we are all very tight.  It all depends on the last tournaments. 

Q.  Do you really want to go to Shanghai? 

MARAT SAFIN:  Well, of course I would like it.  Well, if you go to Shanghai, you would also like to win Shanghai.  It's not only the fact of going to Shanghai or earning money because you are there. 

Q.  You've been all over the globe.  Week after week must take its toll on you. 

MARAT SAFIN:  It's every time, it's getting more difficult.  Every week there is more deceptions, you know.  First of all, I think it starts with Hong  Kong.  I arrive, I was completely dead on the court in the second round.  I was dizzy, I had no more energy.  I flew back to Moscow.  I had a few days to recover.  Then I lost in semifinals to Mathieu, which was a nice match, but still the way I was playing, I should have won, because I was playing at home.  Everything was set perfectly to win this tournament.  Then I had the tournament in Lyon, lost in the quarterfinals to Kuerten 7-6 in the third.  Today I lost 7-6, 7-6.  So I'm losing already three tiebreaks in a row.  It's getting on my nerves.  I'm disappointed, you know, because I'm very close to Shanghai.  I'm playing much better.  I'm trying to do well.  But unfortunately, luck is not on my side right now. 

Q.  Is it possible to have a week where you don't play and recharge your batteries? 

MARAT SAFIN:  Now I have a few days off, but I have only two tournaments left this year, and I will have to do well if I want to get into Shanghai.  But I'm not sure because everybody's playing well.  Ferrero, he won this match today, he's just right behind me.  Henman, it's going to be tough.  Now I'm basically out in the first round.  They're going to get closer and closer, even pass me.  Not so many chances to get there. 

Q.  In the end, Davis Cup is bound to catch up with you, you had a tremendous performance there. 

MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, Davis Cup, I mean, but it was a long time ago.  I had enough time to recover.  I've been playing great for the last few weeks.  Just I think is not more physical, is not more mental, it's just something, two points, it's luck.  I need to start to win in tiebreaks.  I'm not having them.  I have to wait and I have to wait and I have to wait until it will come. 

Q.  The match was so close.  What do you think made the difference between you two? 

MARAT SAFIN:  I told you before, there was these two points that made the difference.  I knew that the match was going to be hard because I lost against him some years ago in Kitzbuhel, and I know how he plays.  I know he hits the ball hard.  He's a brave player.  He serves well.  Anyway, if I had won the second set, or even the first one when I was 4-1 up  -- and also in the tiebreak I was 5-4, there were several times where I should have turned it around.  It's a question of luck.  But, well, what can I do?  We could speak about the match for a long time, but I lost. 

Q.  You hit really risky shots. 

MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, it's true, I took risks.  I played some great points.  But what can I do now? 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT