WESTERN AND SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 5, 2002
Marat Safin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions.


Q.  What happened in the second set? 

MARAT SAFIN: Terrible, bad, just I cannot call it tennis, that's it.  Just bad.  Terrible.

Q.  Do you think you lost your focus?

MARAT SAFIN: I didn't lose my focus.  I lost my game.  That's what is going on.  And that's it.  That was my second set.

Q.  Any explanations, a little bit of wind problem, with your back?

MARAT SAFIN: Just playing bad.  No confidence, I don't feel it.  I have no confidence and it's really sad that the train is going away and I cannot jump on it.  It's really sad.

Q.  The trainer is going away?


Q.  Is this something just today or have you been having trouble lately?   You won a couple of rounds up in Toronto...

MARAT SAFIN: Yeah, but still, like I don't have my game and I don't have -- I don't have any shot, any special shot to play against all these guys and to beat them.  I feel like I cannot beat them.  That's what I am feeling right now.  It's terrible.

Q.  Is it really a shot or it is something in your head because I mean, obviously  --

MARAT SAFIN: A shot you don't have to take it really, you know, it's  --

Q.  Feel like a critical situation coming into the Open?   You have obviously had success there --

MARAT SAFIN: No, no, I mean, a shot, it means something that you have special in your game that I can use it against other guys and that's why I am beating the other guys, but right now in this moment, I have nothing to beat all these guys, I have nothing.  I am just going on the court, I am just playing my match.  I am making a great match, a few good points, people they can clap me and that's it.  That's all I am doing.  It is ridiculous.  I am not satisfied with my game.  I am not satisfied the way I am playing and it's not my game and I am not enjoying it anymore playing this way.

Q.  Is this critical though, you are going into the US Open, you have done really well there, obviously winning it, that you are not finding your game and you are pretty close  --

MARAT SAFIN: What I can do?  What I can do?  Let's way and let's see what is going to come out because this way definitely I will not make the first two rounds playing this way.

Q.  Do you have any ideas how to turn it around?

MARAT SAFIN: No.  No idea.  Completely lost.  If I would have this idea, if I would have something in my mind, I would definitely change it.  But that's why I am struggling.  That's why I am losing first round in Cincinnati and it's really pissing me off and that is why I am losing my confidence, and I am not sure if I am going to be able to play US Open and try to win it.  Definitely not, far away, far away from there, far away from getting into good shape and just do well there.  It is difficult.

Q.  What are you going to try to do to prepare for the Open?

MARAT SAFIN: Practice, practice and practice.  What are you going to do?   Nothing else.  Just you need to spend  -- if you need 10 hours I will stay 10 hours on the court.  If I need 24 hours I will have to stay 24 hours a day.  There's no other solution to get better in tennis.

Q.  You had your chances in that first set, didn't you, you had three set points and looked as though you had your hands on the tiebreaker.

MARAT SAFIN: It means that you have no confidence.  That you miss the shot and it's -- everything is turning around and everything is going against you, that's tennis and that's  -- that means that you are in bad shape and that means that you are in a bad mood and that means you are not playing well.  And it is really difficult to come out of this situation.  I know this, everybody knows this, but nobody can help me as I can see.  It's really sad.  Really sad because I have been preparing for a long time, to come here to the States and try to do well because I was sure that I will do well here.  Toronto, okay, it was quarterfinals, but still here, you know, when you are training for long time and trying to do well and winning a couple of tournaments and suddenly you lose in the first round, lose against Rusedski, I don't have anything against this guy, he played great tennis but still, just disappoint me so much that I have no power to move on, but I would have to.  I still have two weeks, almost three weeks before the Open, but no idea.

Q.  You have been in this situation before, haven't you and you have come out of it and played well, at times earlier this year, for instance, you seemed to feel similar to this and came out and played well?

MARAT SAFIN: But, right now, again in the same situation that I am playing bad, but now I am so lost that I cannot find where I can go and what I have to do to come back and play well because I was supposed to, you know, I was supposed to fighting for No. 1 in the world.  I was supposed to win at least one tournament this year, a big one.  I had so many chances and I just, you know, I couldn't make it and it's just coming one after another one and you feel like it's just you are losing -- you are losing your game and at the end loses game completely, so to come back you need to do something which is  -- which will just change my game, just to maybe something else, but it's just  -- I don't know, I don't know what to do.  Seriously I don't know what to do.  I don't have no clue.

Q.  Do you travel on your own here?

MARAT SAFIN: No, I have a coach. 

Q.  You are with him now?

MARAT SAFIN: Yes.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT