TENNIS MASTERS SERIES - ROMA
May 6, 2002
Marat Safin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  First question for Marat, please.  
 
 
Q.  You must be pleased by that kind of win today?  Your opponent was quite dangerous on clay.  You won pretty easily. 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, I played really good today.  I was surprised.  I was impressed by myself that I can play so good  - especially here.  Because the courts are very, very fast so it's -- the clay is quite fast, so it's easier for me to play here.  And for him it's more difficult because he's more player for the very slow clay court.  
 
Q.  How much does it change when the courts are so fast, 30%?  How much is the difference between it for you? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I don't know how much the percent, but it's  -- for me, it's easier to play on hardcourt.  So basically it's also very, very fast clay.  So with my serve, and also I return quite well, so it's very difficult for the guys like him to play and play fast, the way I'm playing.  So that's make the difference.  If it would be very slow, the courts, then it's going to be tough match and maybe three sets with him.  
 
Q.  You played a few good matches in Monte-Carlo.  Even if you lost to Moya, it was a very good match.  What did you do since then, between Monte-Carlo and here? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I had a few days of vacations because I've been playing for a long tournament like five weeks in a row.  So, for me, it's very difficult.  And I've been holidays, then practice. 
 
Q.  How much practice? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Basically it was physical conditions.  Because for clay, you need definitely to be very prepared physically.  Now you have Rome, Hamburg and Dusseldorf and two weeks of French Open.  So you have to be really good prepared.  
 
Q.  For the clay season everybody's looking to Ferrero and then maybe Hewitt because he's No. 1 in the world.  At which level do you put Mr.  Safin? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I think I can play with all these guys, especially I'm just  -- I'm still No. 6 in the world. I'm going up and up.  I started year 11, now I'm 6.  I'm not defending anything until basically the US Open where I make semifinals, and I am full of confidence and I'm gonna be dangerous on clay - very dangerous.  I think  -- but I prefer to stay like this or that nobody will take me serious or I will not have too much pressure on myself.  I just play my matches, I win my matches, and I'm getting closer and closer to No. 1.  
 
Q.  You seem thinner.  Have you lost some weight? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  No, I gained some weight.  I gained 2 and a half kilos.  Usually my weight is 92, 93 kilos.  Now I'm 94 and a half.  So thank you for the compliment (smiling). 
 
Q.  Must be muscles. 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Thank you.  Thank you for the compliment (smiling).  
 
Q.  You seem much more focused on your tennis this year than last year.  Is it an impression?  Is it true? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Thank you for another compliment.  No, just... I have to be serious.  I mean, now I have  -- but last year was a little bit difficult because I've been injured for two months so I lost Monte-Carlo, I lost Rome, I lost Hamburg and I couldn't find my confidence back.  And I have some  - my personal problems.  So basically it was  -- the year wasn't so great  and I could finish 11, so is not so bad.  And this year I'm playing great.  I start the year very well  - finals in Australia.  And I'm quite solid, so I'm not losing easy matches.  Just I am there quarterfinals.  But the problem is I cannot make  - like  - get over the quarterfinals.  But I'm playing well.  I'm satisfied.  I am confident.  I think Rome, Hamburg I will have to do something special, just be prepared for the Open.  But I think I have a chance there, definitely.  The way I'm playing right now, big chance.  
 
Q.  Looking back to the final at the Australian Open, what can you say about that match?  Was it you missed a chance?  Was it the wrong day?  Was it an incredible experience?  Was it the experience of your life?  What? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I think, like I said, I mean, it's  -- (inaudible) just give the explanations.  Because actually it's true that I've been taking antibiotics two days before the tournament starts.  So basically I've been taking antibiotics for six days.  Eventually, I could make  -- of course I could make the finals.  But also when I played, it was the time when I played.  It was late, or it was with the roof so I could run.  Suddenly, with the sun, especially what happened with the match with Haas, we start to play with the sun, it was very hot and just I couldn't run.  Then they close the roof and the score was 6-love, 6-2.  And the finals, of course.  But definitely I think part of it, Thomas played a really good match and just I lost my  -- I lost my game after first set.  That was the key.  I couldn't stop him.  I tried, but he was too good.  So it's a great experience for me  - not really nice to lose the final on my birthday, but still it's nice.  We cannot change it.  
 
Q.  You were very kind in Australia to invite some of us to your party with the blonde "Safinette." 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Can you answer me one question, how many times you gonna repeat the same question (laughter)?  Because it's already past five months and everybody's asking the same question.  I have done so many good things afterwards.  I think we can talk about tennis, not my private life.  
 
Q.  Any private life in Rome? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  No, I don't think so.  I am here to play tennis and to answer your questions and do my job, and my object is to finish this year No. 1.  And if you have some questions about the subject, I will answer it with pleasure.  
 
Q.  What do you have to do to become No. 1? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  What do I have to do?  Just stay focus, play the way I'm playing, work hard.  I mean, it doesn't take so much time.  And just stay focus, stay  -- never give up.  And especially with the help that I'm having right now, Marc Rosset is helping me this moment.  He's trying to help me.  And we're doing well, you know.  Already like three weeks together, he's just assistant coach, and we're doing well.  We're doing well.  So I hope that this year I could finish No. 1.  It would be a great present for me.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT