NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 28, 2002
Marat Safin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 
   
 
Q. Marat, it was a fantastic match.  I know how you feel, but where do you think was the difference?  What made the difference tonight? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  My opinion is definitely that the serve make the difference.  Because without serve, you're gonna beat this guy.  I mean, he's No. 1 in the world.  He's playing great.  He has a very good baseline, he has unbelievable legs.  Very good anticipation.  Very fast, you know.  And of course you need to serve much better against him than I served today.  I was quite bad.  My serve didn't work at all.  I think that made the difference in the third set.  Because I had an opportunity when I came back at 4-all, I just had to play, you know, my ^ decent service game.  I couldn't make it, because I was playing great and returning was just  -- I could play with him from the baseline, I was pushing him.  I could make some good points.  But I need the serve, of course, to beat this guy.  
 
Q.  And the difference between the first and second set? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Oh, the first set just I think that I played good.  I didn't make many mistakes.  I served okay, pretty okay in the first set.  And then, just my percentage of my serves just went  -- it was too low.  Second and third set, just first set I don't think I put many first serves in.  That's the key of the match.  Because from the baseline it was perfect.  That's why the score was 7-6 in the third.  Just I lost by two points, two, three points.  So, if I would have serve, you know, in decent way, I think I would have  -- I could had the chance to win two sets even.  
 
Q.  There was a sensation that after this acrobatics you made and you won the point and you broke, you would have changed the tone of the match? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, but it's just I think  -- it was like in the movie, you know?  Everybody, of course, wish after this jump that you turn the match completely different way and you can  -- you have to win this match.  But is not, is real life and you have the No. 1 in the world.  He's still fighting.  He's just still there.  Nothing changes.  I make the good shot, and that's it.  But is not Rocky and is not Rambo.  
 
Q.  In the tiebreak, you made some errors off the backhand.  Does he just force you to go for those tough shots all the time to the lines? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah.  I think it's also my game, you know.  I can't just keep, you know, just playing for him from the baseline.  I cannot play his game to beat him.  I have to do something else, and my game is hitting the ball.  That's what I try to do, and that's why I think I was successful still without serve.  I was successful.  I had some great game to him.  That's why it's 7-6 in the third, because I played my game.  He tried to play his game.  And eventually he won by three points.  It's really sad, but it's like this.  That's life.  He was too good today.  
 
Q.  Seems like you had a nice moment at the net with him graciously afterwards.  What did you say to him?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  No, just  -- just I think it was great match.  I said, "Thank you," and just, "Good luck for the tournament."  He was too good for me today.  That's what I said. 
 
Q.  What did he say?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I don't think he could speak, he would speak but he was excited.  And I think it's very happy moment, and it's really nice moment for him.  I think was a great match.  He played good.  I don't think he has to say something.  It was just... Was too good.  Was a good match today.  I think spectators, they would enjoy it very much. 
 
Q.  I think it was the best match of the tournament. 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Thank you.  
 
Q.  What is it about Hewitt that makes him tough to beat? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Tough to beat, that he's really consistent, you know  - he doesn't lose his mind and he's just playing his game.  It's not really impressive game, but he's running, he doesn't make any mistakes, he has really fast hands, fast legs.  You cannot play his game.  And when he's starting to play his game, it's just baseline, he just kills you.  You know, he plays the balls in the right way, in the right place, and it's difficult to play with him, against him from the baseline.  He's really, really consistent. 
 
Q.  Is there a better fighter on tour than him? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I don't think so.  That's why he's No. 1 in the world.  
 
Q.  The one first serve that you did make in the tiebreak was 132 miles-per-hour into his body.  How surprised were you that that ball came back? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I mean, you know that he's probably one of the best  -- he has one of the best returns on tour.  You have to serve well against him, you know, to just... just to make free points.  So I have to make it  -- serve into the body or keep away from him.  So it's  -- for me, it was, in the tiebreak, was easy to serve to the body than to serve wide because I just  -- I lost my serve.  I lost the motion.  
 
Q.  Marat, how do you see the chances of Marcelo Rios against Agassi? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  The score I've beaten them is 2-love for Rios.  Rios is playing really good.  He made some great results.  He's confident.  And when he is playing great, he is playing great.  I mean, he's so talented.  I think he's gonna be tough for this tournament, and he's going to be tough for Agassi.  Even if Agassi is American, he's playing at home, he's playing great also, it's gonna be tough match.  I think is gonna be three sets and it's gonna be very nice to watch it.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT