NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 25, 2002
Marat Safin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Marat, please.  
 
 
Q.  I know you're much better than this.  When are you going to get some consistency in your game? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  It's difficult.  I didn't play well today; I know that.  I almost lost my match.  I had big opportunities, you know, 4-3, serving  -- with a serve.  6-5, serving for the match.  Just bad game.  But I was there, still was there.  I fight and eventually, in the tiebreaker, I could finish it. 
 
Q.  You did fight today.  But those easy volleys you missed?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, I played bad, I know that.  I didn't play my best tennis definitely.  But it happens, you know, and I hope next day I will play better.  But it just didn't work.  Anything didn't work today.  Didn't work the serve, didn't work the baseline.  The volley wasn't great.  But still, you know, I was there, 7-6 in the third.  Third round still not bad. 
 
Q.  Does it concern you that you could have a great Grand Slam and then not quite put enough together?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  But the Grand Slam, I play much better because I think is five sets so I have time, you know, to get into the match and I have more chances to win the match.  Five sets, is long way to go.  And here is you have one break and you are basically down a set and you have to be careful in the second set.  So, it's very difficult for me to play three-set matches than the five sets.  
 
Q.  Tell me something about your new coach. 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  The guy is, you know, we're working.  We just started to work.  So maybe it will not work, maybe it will work.  So who knows.  But I have to give him some time, you know.  And if it's not working, is not a problem because he's still my manager and it's  -- I will stay friend with him.  But I need to give him some time, you know, to get to know each other better and see if it works or not.  For the moment, I don't think it's working.  But I have to give some time. 
 
Q.  Did Mats impart some mental things to you during your time with him? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, but you have to understand by yourself that what you need in your game, that what you would love to be in the future.  Because I don't think that when I am going to be 26 or 27 I would love to run in the sun like when it's 30 degrees and just play from the baseline.  So I have to improve my volley.  So at the end, I would definitely change my game, you know, to more serve and volley.  It's gonna be difficult to play from the baseline, definitely, when you're 26, 27.  You don't have so much energy anymore.  You want to play fast points.  So, I would have to change.  
 
Q.  Pete Sampras, throughout his career, narrow focus on tennis, nothing but tennis.  Can you possibly be like that? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  No.  No way.  No way, no way.  No way.  I love tennis, but not like, you know, I like to enjoy my life.  It would be a pity to spend my best  - probably best years of my life just living with tennis.  It would be the biggest mistake in my life. And I like to enjoy my life.  I'm having fun on the court.  I love to play tennis.  I love to practice, you know - not much, but still, I am trying to do my job, and I like it.   But only tennis, definitely not. 
 
Q.  How important are Grand Slams to you weighed against the other things in your life? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Grand Slams is the biggest thing that can happen to you.  If you win the Grand Slam, you are just  -- it  -- anything can't be better.  The Grand Slam is the best, the best feeling when you're winning a Grand Slam.  It just give you so much confidence and you're having great time because it's two weeks.  And it's like five sets, and every match is like, you know, big-time.  Because you're on your way to win a huge, huge price, being a Grand Slam champion. 
 
Q.  There are so many good players out there, like this young player today, that maybe unless you focus all your energy into your tennis, maybe you can't win anymore Grand Slams.  What do you think?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I don't think so.  I don't think so.  I don't think that you have to destroy your life just because of tennis.  I think it doesn't make any damage living your life and doing your job on the court.  Because your job you're doing, it takes how many days to practice?  Two, three hours, okay, yeah?  Definitely.  You cannot practice a lot during the tournament because it's very hard, because you have to play the next day.  So you play one hour, one hour and a half, you go to the gym, make it two hours, I don't know.  Two to three hours.  Let's put it this way, three hours a day.  The rest of the day, what you are doing?  You have to stay at home.  Watching stupid TV?  That's it?  That's all the thing can give?  Is boring.  It's very boring.  I am 22 years old.  I want to enjoy my life.  I am living right on the beach, Miami Beach.  I am having so much fun.  So why I have to change my way of life?  I like it.  I love it.  Sorry.  
 
Q.  What else do you love to do?  Beside tennis, what do you like the most? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I mean, it's my personal.  It's too personal.  
 
Q.  Too personal? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Too personal. 
 
Q.  Is there anything you wouldn't be embarrassed about telling us? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  No, because I don't think that everybody has to know what I like to do.  That's what I'm telling you it's something personal.  I don't like to share it.  That's it.  Sorry, I like, like everybody, I go to cinema, do things.  But there is something that just secret.  Confidential.  
 
Q.  Probably next, Pete Sampras. 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I would love to.  I'm doing everything as possible to get there.  But also to live my life. 
 
Q.  Want Pete to stay on the court this time? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  We'll see.  
 
Q.  Would you rather play Pete or would you rather play Gonzalez? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I would love to play Gonzalez, but Pete, I think he's  -- with him I have quite good results.  In Indian Wells he make some finals I think?  Or semifinals, no?  Indian Wells?  Indian Wells, I don't know what he make.  But I think semifinals, so he's in good shape.  Is a tough, tough player.  But you never know.  Last time I beat him in Australia, so we'll see.  I don't know.  Whatever it comes.  
 
Q.  Marat, if you play Pete, the match is probably 7 o'clock, Stadium Court, lights are on, TV cameras.  Is this what you crave, one of the things you live for, big moments like that? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, you have to live this big moments, you know.  It's very nice to go out of the court so probably we gonna play in the evening, I think so, no?  
 
Q.  Will you play better under those conditions? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I think it's better also because it's gonna be full stadium I think.  It's gonna be a lot of people, right?  It's probably good match for the spectators.  TV, you know, it's gonna be great atmosphere.  So it helps you - a lot - the atmosphere on the court helps your game definitely.  Is not boring, it's gonna be fun.  It's playing against big guy.  You have to play well.  It gives you a lot of motivation.  
 
Q.  What about today.  The crowd wasn't big, but it was very lively for your opponent. 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Today when I went into the court, it was like ten people maybe?  So it was like, you know, you working at 11 o'clock in the morning.  But then it's  -- it was much better, the time.  So third set it was quite a lot of people.  
 
Q.  Can you hear the crowd rooting for your opponent?  Does it help  -- does it bother you or does it help you when it roots for you, or do you block it out? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I mean when the people are coming to watch tennis and they are enjoying it, you enjoy it also.  You know, it's just  -- because I am playing for the spectators.  If they're having fun, it's great.  I'm feeling much better.  I'm playing much better.  And also when they are cheering for me, then it's too good.  It makes your game easier. 
 
Q.  Marat, because you have, you know, this well-rounded life , were you able to put the Australian Open loss behind you quickly? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  That's what I'm trying to do, I'm trying to forget.  It's a bad lose, not a good memory.  It's not a good memory to lose on your birthday, being the favorite.  It happens.  I'm just 22.  I have many years to play, many chances to win a Grand Slam.  I think I will forget about this quite soon.  
 
Q.  How much does Davis Cup mean to you? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  This year, too much.  Because first of all, we are playing everything at home.  Every -- match is going to be in Moscow.  Yevgeny wants to retire.  He wants to retire only in the case we gonna win Davis Cup. 
 
Q.  He told you you have to play your best all year?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yes.  Yes.  I am responsible also for this. 
 
Q.  You're going to drive him into retirement?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I will give him a present. 
 
Q.  Don't you think he's too young to retire?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  He's done a great career, ten years?  How many years has he been in Top 10?  Since he was 21.  He's 28.  He spend seven years Top 10, two Grand Slams winner, Olympic champion, 21 tournament singles titles, no?  21 singles titles?  21 doubles titles.  That's quite good.  He's from old generation, and it's really, really good.  I would love to have the same career like him.  It's good.  And I think it's the perfect way to retire, being in the still up in the Top 10, and you're just retired.  That's going to be perfect.  Winning the Davis Cup.  
 
Q.  Your philosophy about life in general, do you think it applies to most Russian tennis players? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  My philosophy of life?  If I am thinking like typical Russian?  What do you mean?  
 
Q.  Yeah. 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  No, I don't think so.  Because I spend too many years  -- I am more European, I would say.  I would say.  I would say so, because I spend eight years in Spain since I was 14.  So, I cannot be typical Russian.  And I am proud of it, that I am not typical Russian.  
 
Q.  You might have talked about this, because I came in late; I apologize. 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  That's okay.  
 
Q.  The difference today in the match and how you think you did, talk about the tiebreaker.  Unless you did already. 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I played bad.  I think you noticed this.  And just it wasn't my day.  But I was there, I fight.  I try to do all my best.  I try to do serve and volley, even if didn't work at all.  But still I was there and I had opportunities at 4-3 serving, 6-5 serving for the match.  And I lost them.  I just start to play really good the tiebreak.  I'm not satisfied with my game, but I'm satisfied with my win, the way I fought today.  Definitely.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT