PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 10, 2002
Marat Safin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Questions for Marat.  
 
 
Q.  Looking back at last year, can you evaluate your decision to play with your back?  You played at this tournament when your back was hurting, through other tournaments.  Can you evaluate, was that a good thing to do, looking back at it a year later?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah.  I think it was the right thing at that moment, to play all these tournaments, because I had no other solution.  I already spoke about this.  I think everything is clear.  I think for me it was the right decision.  That's it.  
 
Q.  Tell us about how you're feeling at the moment, your tennis, everything.  How do you look at this tournament?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I'm good.  You know, I played well in Australia.  I won the last match in Davis Cup.  I played only one tournament after Australian Open.  It was in Rotterdam.  Unfortunately, I didn't do very well, I lost second round.  But I'm just trying to play less, and I try to do better in the tournaments, than to play a lot of tournaments.  Some of them you'll not do well.  It's just less tournaments, better quality.  
 
Q.  When you were going around playing with your lame back, had you been advised by medical people that you could not make it worse by continuing to play?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  No, no, no.  
 
Q.  You could have made it worse?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  No, I couldn't made it worse because I spoke with my medicals, with the people that I know.  They said is not a problem.  Just, you know, you have to wait and you have to take a rest during one month, three weeks, then it's going to be okay.  But I couldn't make it because I had no other solution, so that's why I had to play all these tournaments.  That's why I couldn't do very well actually here.  Basically I spoiled all the year.  Like I said, I had no other solution. 
 
Q.  Why did you actually decide to play less?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Because anyway, if you're playing a lot of tournaments, it's difficult to do well in all of them, and the quality of your game is going down with the time because your fitness is not so well, you're not fit after two or three weeks of playing tournaments in a row, you know.  It's not good for the spectators, it's not good for me, because I'm also losing confidence.  I think it's better to prepare well, play less tournaments, do better results and have more confidence.  You are more satisfied, have you more time to enjoy your life actually.  You have enough time to enjoy it, to spend the money as well (smiling). 
 
Q.  Can you give us an update on your coaching situation?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  No.  I'm traveling with a guy, his name is Amit Naor.  He's my manager.  We're trying to work with him.  I'm trying to work with him.  For the moment is going well.  I don't want to change anything.  I'm satisfied with the work we are doing. 
 
Q.  What happened with Mats?  Is that finished?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Mats, yeah, I think everybody understands that Mats is playing tournaments, Senior Tour, and he has a family.  It's a little bit difficult to have a coach for all the year.  That's what I need, a coach that he can spend with me like 30, 40 weeks a year.  He could not make it for these reasons.  He's playing tournaments and he has a family, which I respect.  So I think the right solution was, you know, just to finish.  I'm still having contact with him.  We are good friends.  That's more important than to have a business together, I think.  
 
Q.  Can you go through details of what you've been doing between Rotterdam and here? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I have my vacations, you know, because after the trip to Australia, you need a few days to recover because it's a long trip.  You have to celebrate anyway because it's not many times in life you will make the final of Grand Slam.  Then, yeah, I played Rotterdam.  I had like also two weeks, so I had time to rest.  I had ten days of preparation before this tournament, and I'm fit.  I'm looking forward.  I want to do well here because I have nothing to defend.  I think I'm ready for this.  
 
Q.  After the US Open, do you remember where you were, how you heard about the terror attacks?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, I heard this when I left.  I left New York on Sunday.  The planes crashed I think on Tuesday morning.  So basically, yeah, I was lucky that I lost to Pete, so I had time to get out of there.  
 
Q.  Where were you?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I was in Tashkent.  I was really shocked.  I think it's too much.  It was too much for me.  Too much for everybody. 
 
Q.  Do you think a lot of things have changed in the world?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  It will be more difficult to get a visa to the States, that's the main thing, especially for Russians (laughter).  But, no, it's okay.  It's more important for you guys, you know, you just recover from all of this.  I think it's very difficult and really scary what happened here.  I hope everything is okay, everything is in order, and everything will come back, just live the normal life like you lived before.  
 
Q.  How long have you been practicing here in Indian Wells?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I came here on Wednesday night, so since Thursday I'm practicing twice a day, doing my footwork, fitness, and getting ready for a tournament.  Not much to do actually here.  But it's really nice, nice and easy, enough time to concentrate for the tennis.  
 
Q.  Have you heard from any of your entourage in Australia, your friends in Australia?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I don't think.  They're just friends and that's it.  Not many words I can say about this.  
 
Q.  It was in the paper every day. 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, but it's okay.  
 
Q.  At the stage where you are now, tennis-wise, what do you think you are happy with and what do you think you still need to work on?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  You have to improve something.  I have many things to improve.  The year is just beginning.  I have a lot of time.  I'm just wondering, you know, like that I can play for all the year and keep the confidence that I'm having right now, just to play my best game is the most important thing, just keep in the same shape during all the year. 
 
Q.  You seem much more serious than when I've observed you at the US Open where you were laughing. 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I'm growing up.  I'm 22 now, so I have to be more serious. 
 
Q.  Is life less fascinating for you at 22?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  No.  You know, I'm trying to be serious and try to do my business as best as I can.  
 
Q.  When you play a tournament where you have a lot of points to defend, then where you play a tournament like here where you don't have much to defend, what is the difference?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  The difference actually is the same.  When you're playing a tournament, you are trying to defend the points.   When you have nothing to defend, you're thinking to get as many points as you can so you can go up in the ranking.  So also you're under pressure all the time.  It's like difficult sometimes. 
 
Q.  How is your confidence level?  Is it back where it was once?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, you know, I'm getting better.  I didn't play very well in the last year.  But I'm coming back, I'm playing very well right now, looking forward that I can play the same level like I play in 2000.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT