US OPEN
September 3, 2001
Marat Safin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  You have a way of somehow playing so great and then so shaky in such a short period of time.  You go up 6-2, 2-love, then all of a sudden lose six straight games.  Can you figure out how you do that, go back and forth so quickly?

MARAT SAFIN:  No, I just  -- I'm not used to  -- seems a long time I'm not used to play these kind of matches, you know, against these kind of players.  I didn't make any good results, you, know,  during all the year.  And I've been injured for some reasons.  Didn't play well.  And of course when you play against guys like Johansson, it's tough to be focused.  Because it's such a high rhythm from the baseline, you know, it's no time to think.  And also you start to think,  "I'm playing so good.  It can't be possible because it's a long time I'm not playing this well."  Then you lose concentration and don't believe in yourself.  Then just you lose the set very easy, you know. Then of course you have to fight and you have to find a way to beat him.  Of course it's very difficult.  But it's a very good example.  You know, see if the first set you are playing great tennis, you still have to be focus first two, three games because it's gonna be  -- they are the toughest ones.  And so... But it was good.  It was good to play, you know, and come back after the second set, horrible second set and play match.  And I think I made  -- it's a very good result for me for this year.  It's unbelievable.  Very good.  And even I played some points like too nervous.  But I am happy that is going better and better.  And each time I feel more comfortable on the court, you know.  The guy like Johansson, he always plays well against Russians, and especially he's playing very well in US Open.  To beat him, it's really good.  Very perfect. 

Q.  What has Mats Wilander done for your game, for your approach? 

MARAT SAFIN:  Just you have to  -- first of all, of course I have to work a little bit more for my concentration because it's like you have unbelievable ups and downs.  You can play great, and suddenly you're playing, you don't know how to play anymore.  You don't know how to hit the ball inside the court. Of course it's little bit to put pressure on the opponent since the first point of the match.  You know, he has to be under pressure all the time.   And try to make break, improve my serve a lot.  You know, the way I served the beginning of the year was terrible.  And I'm improving, and I'm just trying to play more aggressive, and, you know, and try to go to the net as many times as I can.  And bring something new, because everybody know how to play from the baseline, is not enough already.  Everybody's like looking for volleying, trying to make the points little bit shorter.  And just pressure all the time. 

Q.  Looking ahead to your next opponent, how do you feel your chances are with Zabaleta?

MARAT SAFIN:  Zabaleta, I think, is very tough.  Because right now he was injured at the beginning of the year, right, for six months.  That's what he told me.  And he is trying to come back, and he is doing well.  He makes quarterfinals.  For him is great result for second tournament he's playing.  But last time I beat him at  -- last time it was  -- we played in Barcelona last year, first round, and I beat him.  I think, yeah, I have a chance.  Of course I have a chance.  Just it will  -- I will try to just start from the beginning, like focus, and not try to lose  -- try to be careful with the concentration.  I think I have little bit more experience.  I played more matches this year, and I make some good results.  And also I beat Johansson, and it's very good for me.  I'm very confident. But Mariano is playing very well.  It will be tough, really tough.  Because he's serving well.  He has a new coach, Filippini, and I think they are doing a great job together.  And it's gonna be  -- I have to take him very serious.  Very serious. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT