US OPEN
September 1, 2001
Marat Safin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  This tournament, for you, is beginning to look suspiciously like last year.  Start a little slow, get better.  By the second week you were rolling. 

MARAT SAFIN:  I hope it's  -- it will go the same way.  Because I'm feeling quite well.  I played today much better than last two matches.  I mean, it's very difficult place to win.  It's all these days and it's very difficult to make unbelievable tennis.  But still, I make some good shots and I'm there in the match and I'm playing quite well.  Second week, I'm gonna be dangerous for sure. 

Q.  I don't know whether you meant it to sound like it did, but earlier in the week one got the impression that,  "I'm here, happy to be here, hope I do well.  If I don't, dig deeper." I wonder now whether or not your motivation is getting stronger. 

MARAT SAFIN:  Of course, because you know, the beginning of a tournament is 128 players and everybody wants to win, you know.  Now it's only last 16 players so it's getting closer and closer and I have more chances to win.  Every time it's less, less persons playing tennis.   And the way I'm playing, I'm quite sure and I'm quite confident in myself and I feel every match I am playing I know that the next match is gonna be quarterfinals.  And then quarterfinals, you never know.  So it's everything is there.  And it's  -- I have very good motivation right now.  Unbelievable. 

Q.  Although you have to get past Johansson. 

MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah. 

Q.  Rusedski's out of here now, and your half of the draw is beginning to look very comfortable. 

MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah.  Is nice to hear, but still, Johansson is tough.  But I'm playing well, so it's  -- I'm confident in myself.  It's definitely-- I have a big chance to beat him.  And I think  -- I feel comfortable in the court.  Depends on me all the time.  I hope it's-- everything gonna depend on me, every match, every point, every set.  I'm not depending on anybody, any player.  I depend on myself.  The way I'm playing, the way I'm gonna win.  And if I play bad, I still have a chance to win.  If I play good, I mean, the other guy has no chance. 

Q.  Have you played Thomas before? 

MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, I played twice.  (Inaudible). I beat him in Dubai where I get injured.  I got injured against him in the first set.  But I don't know how I won this match.  Then I played next week in Indian Wells.  I was injured.  I couldn't serve, so it was 6-4, 6-4.  But still, I think is gonna be very interesting match.  But I'm telling you, I'm gonna be very, very dangerous.  Very dangerous. 

Q.  He's a very streaky player.  When he's hot, he's unbelievably hot.  Then sometimes it just goes cold. 

MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, but when I play good, it's nobody has a chance also.  When I'm play well, it's no chance to beat me.  So, I hope I'm gonna be the same like I played today or even better, and it's gonna be very tough to beat me.  He has to play very good tennis to beat me, definitely. 

Q.  In the bottom half of your draw, Rafter, Agassi, Sampras, Federer.  At some point all these great players are going to have to play each other in very emotional matches to reach the semifinal.  Do you think it's possible that if you get there, whoever survives is going to be a little bit emotionally drained from all those tough matches? 

MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, but still I have Johansson.  Other parts of the draw, who is there, Malisse, Zabaleta.  Who is there?  Malisse, Zabaleta.   These guys, I lost to Malisse.  I mean, not playing well, but still I lost to him.  So I have to give little bit respect to these guys still.  But of course somehow you start to think about the semifinal and it's very nice, you know, if you think about semifinal, it means that you are confident with yourself.  But still I am going match by match.  You know, I have Johansson.  If I win, I can think about quarterfinals and semifinals.  That's for sure, I am closer.  But it's difficult.  I cannot say,  "Yeah, I'm gonna be in semifinal."  If I'm not in semifinal, you gonna give me so much shit in the press conference, so I have to be quiet, you know. 

Q.  But now in the bottom half, in your opinion, in a tournament of this magnitude, bigness, whoever survives out of these great players, is he likely to come through stronger at the end of emotionally drained? 

MARAT SAFIN:  I think it depends what matches.  It depends who gonna be there.  Of course if somebody gonna  -- if Pete or Andre or Patrick or Federer gonna get into a semifinal, definitely they will have a lot of confidence and they will feel unbelievable comfortable on the court.  But still, you know, they played.  They gonna have two tough matches.  You know, it's very close.  And I hope they are tired and I hope they are not playing well, all these things.  But I cannot say.  It's gonna be very tough for sure.  Because whoever gets to the semifinals is gonna be very confident and really tough to play, definitely. 

Q.  Very frightening.  When you came here to New York, did you think it would be possible to win consecutive US Opens, as Rafter has done? 

MARAT SAFIN:  Is still, you know, first of all, you don't believe in yourself.  You just come here and I'm playing okay.  But still I am not 100 percent.  I am still not happy what I am doing.  I'm not happy the way I am playing, you know.  Suddenly, you start to think,  "Why not?" I start the same way last year.  You know, the first two rounds was horrible.  I played horrible tennis.  I almost lost to Pozzi, I almost lost to Grosjean.  Now I am in Round of 16.  I am playing much better.  I think I have a chance to win.  Why not?  Every time I'm more confident and I have more confidence.  Every time I go to the court I feel more comfortable.  And I'm still there.  Definitely I want to win.  If I have a small chance to win, I'm gonna take it for sure.  For sure. 

Q.  The public's general perception of Marat Safin is, "He has everything you need to be dominant, but we're still not sure about what's up here.  We know he can hit the ball, great serve, hits off the ground great, he can volley.  But we're not quite sure about what's up here."  Is that fair? 

MARAT SAFIN:  I mean, yes.  But everybody is struggling, you know.  Ones they struggle, they don't show any emotions on the court, but they still have so many things in his head that he cannot play tennis anymore, you know.  And of course I have something to improve, right?  If I have nothing to improve, I'm gonna be the best tennis player in the world for next ten years.  So it's at least it's good to have something to improve.  That's why I have Wilander with me, so he puts my head in the same place it was last year.  So... But I'm working.  I'm working on myself. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT