US OPEN
August 27, 2001
Marat Safin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  You haven't had a great season so far, but you have a chance here to make everything right again by a good performance at a place where you've won a title.  Do you feel, coming back here, the familiarity of the courts make you feel like you can win this event? 

MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, of course.  I mean I'm coming here again, I'm coming here to win it.  For me, to be  -- would not be enough if I make quarterfinals or semifinals.  It would be okay, but still I have a chance.  I'm still in draw, and I'm playing okay.  I feel more comfortable in the court.  I have huge support with spectators.  And, yeah, I win the first match.  So it's the most difficult  -- I mean, first match is always difficult.  So it will be great if I can make  -- if I can pass two more rounds and then it will be tough.  And I think I'll definitely want to win it here.  And it doesn't matter with who I'm playing, how I'm playing, I will fight and I will give everything.  I want to win, definitely. 

Q.  Last year you started out here.  The first week was not so great, okay.  You kept building, and in the second week everything came together.  Do you think that could happen again this year? 

MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, I think it's like you need to have two tough  -- one or two tough matches, you know, that you're struggling, you're not playing well and you're like winning in the fifth set.  Definitely I'm going to have one of these matches.  And if I can win, I will be very tough. I think it will give me a lot of confidence, for sure, these kind of matches.  These kind of matches, it's very important for me and it's very important for every player playing a big tournament I think.  One or two tough matches, when you are playing great, it's a completely different story. 

Q.  There's a difference this year, obviously, the expectation that you are the defending champion rather than a guy who comes in as an underdog and takes the title.  Can we expect more of you this year?

MARAT SAFIN:  I don't want to be obsessed with  -- I don't want to put myself under pressure.  First of all, I'm enjoying playing tennis.  I'm enjoying to stay in New York.  For me, come here every year in August, staying in great hotel, you're playing tennis, people coming to watch you, and everything is great.  Just I would like to  -- it would be great if I can keep winning, keep winning and just enjoy my  -- these two weeks.  It would be great - I mean, perfect. 

Q.  Are you feeling mentally and physically the best you've felt all year? 

MARAT SAFIN:  I mean, the way I played at the beginning of the year, of course now I am  -- I'm okay compared to what I  -- how I did before.  I couldn't move, I was tired.  Then I get injured and I start to change the racquet.  Then I lost my confidence.  It's all the time something happen to me.  And right now, right now it's like the end of the season.  I'm trying to make some good results.  And it would be great if I could make  -- I mean, it's gonna be a miracle if I can win here because the way I played all the year, it's a joke.  It would be great.  But I'm there.  I'm trying.  I'm still fighting, and I think I can  -- everything is possible, huh? 

Q.  Can you just talk about the frustrations of this year? 

MARAT SAFIN:  There's so many that you can not  -- it will not  -- we don't have enough time.  (Laughter.)

Q.  In Pete Sampras' greatest years, his entire focus was on tennis, almost nothing else except maybe television, maybe some golf.  Can you be that person?  Or do you have so many other interests outside of tennis you can't be 100 percent tennis? 

MARAT SAFIN:  No, never.  No, it's impossible.  I mean, every person is completely different.  And it's  -- I can't.  I can't live only with tennis, otherwise I go crazy.  I cannot spend a lot of time practicing on the court.  I go crazy.  I need to enjoy my life.  I need to  -- it's so many great things to do out of tennis court, out of site, that you cannot imagine.  Especially being in New York.  I mean, it's so many things to do.   And it's just a part of my life.  I'm playing tennis, I'm having fun.  It's my job, yeah, but it's  -- I'm living my life.  I'm not living my job, you know. I want to live my life.  I would like to have just  -- I'm 21.  I want to enjoy. 

Q.  Some would say the way tennis is today, you can't stay at the top unless you are like Pete and concentrate on nothing but tennis.  Do you agree with that? 

MARAT SAFIN:  No, no, no.  Look at me.  I am not focused at all. (Laughing.)  No, of course I am focused.  No, I'm just  -- yeah, I'm playing.  I'm trying, and I am working and I am working hard.  But apart from this, I am trying to live my life and I'm still  -- I'm still No. 3 in the world.  I mean, just I was unlucky this year.  I got injured and I lost four Masters Series.  Otherwise, I would be still one, two, three maybe.  But it's  -- you can stay there, I think.  And if you want, I can prove it next year if you want, okay? 

Q.  In the year since you won here, was there one incident that made it clear to you within yourself that you were a Grand Slam champion and not just a run-of-the-mill player, either being recognized someplace or getting privileges or something along those lines? 

MARAT SAFIN:  No, but I mean, it's great to be a Grand Slam winner.  Still, it's already history.  That was one year ago.  You cannot live only with history.  Life is going, you know, you have to improve, you have to win.  You have to prove that you are still there, that you are a great player, you can win another one.  It's all the time like this. And of course it's nice, because when you go to the restaurant, at least they give you a table, you know, otherwise you have to wait.  Or people in transportation, they don't give you a car because they don't even know what is your name.  At least now I can go there and they recognize me - sometimes.  It's good.  (Laughter.) 

Q.  What was your first response when you heard the comment that you're like Russians:  win one year and celebrate the next? 

MARAT SAFIN:  It's a lot of smart people in the world.  It's good.  It's good to have so many smart peoples.  It's very good.  I am happy for them. 

Q.  What do you think of the draw with you, Agassi, Sampras, Rafter all on the same side?  Obviously very tough for someone to get out of that?

MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, but still, I just won one match.  Next match I have a very difficult opponent and I'm just  -- it will be great to win the second match.  For me, it's very difficult, this guy, Ljubicic.  I think Ljubicic won.  So for me, it's very tough. If I have a chance to beat him, and I will beat him, I can see what's going on in draw.  I don't even know who I have in third round.  Just step by step.  It's difficult draw, I know, but you cannot rush. 

Q.  Besides tennis, what do you plan to do in New York? 

MARAT SAFIN:  You tell me.  I mean, you also stay in New York, no?  (Laughter.) It's a beautiful city.  I mean, you have  -- it's so many things to do.  Too many.  Seriously, too many. 

Q.  You've proven that you can beat anybody on this tour except one little Frenchman by the name of Fabrice Santoro.  Why does he give you so much trouble? 

MARAT SAFIN:  It's... I think it's mental.  I think because just one match, it was  -- when I play the first time, I just  -- I wasn't focused.  He make me like four games, he give me four games.  And since then, I can't play against him because it's just mental.  Because I played bad, he played unbelievable, and every time I play against him, I think he's just joking with me.  And, yeah, of course you get frustrated and you get scared, you have no confidence and you're playing bad. But he's another part of the draw, no?  Where is he, up or down?  Where is he, upstairs or downstairs in the draw? 

Q.  Yours. 

MARAT SAFIN:  Thank you very much.  Thank you.  You gave confidence now. 

Q.  If I recall correctly, at Wimbledon you said that Mats was expensive.  Has he been worth it?  What's the best thing he did? 

MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, yeah, of course, I mean, to have a coach like Mats Wilander it's very nice to work with him, first of all.  I mean, it's great.  And I think it's worth it.  And of course he cannot  -- the results are not coming straight away.  You have to wait.  It's not coming after one day, two days.  It's coming.  First we have to work for three or four months, then it's coming.  Slowly they start to come.  You can't rush.

Q.  Can you give us one or two things that he's been focusing on? 

MARAT SAFIN:  No, just it's trying to give me some confidence because it's very important for a player to have a confidence that  -- the coach, he has to be very confident.  You have to trust him, and I trust him 100 percent.  He's teaching me, I don't know, everything, just to improve my game.  I think I have already my game, but I need to be improved.  Volley, serve, forehand, backhand, these kind of things.  And he's teaching me.  It's great.  Slowly, slowly I'm going to be there.  If he stays with me for a long time, I think I can win a few more Grand Slam. 

Q.  Considering the tough times you had this year, the fact that you did well in Indianapolis, coming into this tournament, does that give you confidence? 

MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, this kind of  -- I mean, this kind of tournament, this kind of matches that I played in Indianapolis, I almost lost to Sa in first round.  I was a break down in third set.  I was playing bad.  Suddenly I had won.  Then I had Robredo, a young Spanish guy.  And I won, playing better.  Then I beaten Enqvist playing unbelievable, and I was little bit unlucky against Rafter (inaudible).  So already of course it gave you confidence to beat guys like Robredo and Enqvist.  It's amazing.  I mean, these kind of matches make the difference. Now I feel more confident on the court and I can play my tennis.

Q.  Psychologically, being a defending champion, can you talk a little bit about that?  This is the first time you've come in and defended a major championship. 

MARAT SAFIN:  I don't really care.  Okay, if I don't defend, what's gonna happen?  Nothing.  I'll be 12th, 9?  So next year I have  -- I have nothing to defend next year.  It's perfect.  (Laughter.)

Q.  Have you found this title to be a burden at all?  Has it , I mean at any point during this year, been a burden to you, this title?  Has it been giving you more pressure because you had this title? 

MARAT SAFIN:  Not at all. 

Q.  I'm sorry? 

MARAT SAFIN:  Not at all.  Nothing.  Just I want to play.  I want to win here again.  I'm not thinking to defend how many points I have, how many points, what's gonna happen if I make quarters?  What's gonna happen if I make semifinals?  I want to win again.  I don't really care.  I don't want to count any points.  I want to win.  If I'm not win, it's bad luck.  But still I want to win again.  Why not?  Because if I won last year, it's okay, I won, but I can forget about this.  It's a new year and I want to win again. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT