WIMBLEDON
June 29, 2001
Marat Safin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  What happened after the second set?

MARAT SAFIN:  No, just had a big opportunity.  I was serving for the match in the third set.  I missed one volley.  Just afterwards everything was against me.  He was making great shots.  I couldn't do anything.  Was like I lost completely the game in the fourth set.  Then the fifth set, I just came back.  That's it.  Nothing special.

Q.  Did you have the impression anytime in the match you would lose it?

MARAT SAFIN:  Of course, I have some doubts about this all the time, especially if you are not playing very well.  But then you have to be focused.  In the fifth set, I just had to make a break.  I was lucky to make the early break.  Actually, the match was almost over.  But still, he was hitting great shots and still he was fighting.

Q.  How do you feel now with grass courts?

MARAT SAFIN:  I don't think it's my courts, definitely, because it's very difficult to play from the baseline.  You have to make some serve and volleys all the time.  But it's okay.  I'm in the third round.  I'm happy.

Q.  Are you surprised to be in the second week?

MARAT SAFIN:  Very surprised, yeah.

Q.  Do you remember how you were one week ago in your mind?

MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah.  I'm happy that at least I can get my confidence here.  This kind of matches, you can get the confidence.  Then if you playing well, you can be dangerous here.

Q.  But are you surprised or not?

MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, I'm surprised in a good way.

Q.  How is your physical condition?

MARAT SAFIN:  Okay, I think.  I played ten sets in two days.  Yeah, I'm okay.  I still can play some more matches.

Q.  Any pains in the back?

MARAT SAFIN:  Not much, but still I can feel it.  Sometimes I have sore.  But, yeah, I'm okay.  I'm okay. 

Q.  Before Goran Ivanisevic say two Goran's exist, one that is calm, reasonable, another one that is completely crazy.  Is that something that works also for you?

MARAT SAFIN:  No.  Ivanisevic is one guy, Safin is another guy.  They has nothing to do.  Nothing to compare, I think.  Maybe it's because we break the racquets.  But is nothing to do.  Is different way of life.  Different way of thinking.  Completely different game.  You cannot compare.

Q.  Do you feel sometimes for you, as well, there are two or three Marat's inside your body?

MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, I hope so.  Otherwise I feel lonely.

Q.  Do you sometimes tell yourself in a match when you start smashing the racquet, "Stop it now"? 

MARAT SAFIN:  No.  Yeah, it's difficult.  It's difficult to say to yourself.  You know, because there's no way, if you start to do something, you cannot stop until it's like you have a warning or you broke the racquet.  Yeah, of course, sometimes it's not the best way to do it.  Sometimes it's for easy mistake.  I cannot find another way.  I need to do something because I cannot have it inside during all the match.

Q.  Is it better to play on grass because the racquets don't break as easily?

MARAT SAFIN:  They break very fast, believe me, any surface. 

Q.  Can you tell a few words about your next round. 

MARAT SAFIN:  Yes, Clement won, no? 

Q.  Yes. 

MARAT SAFIN:  It's tough.  The guy is very fast, very good serve for the little guy.  He has very good anticipation, I don't know, very good fit.  You have to be careful with him because he's a big fighter.  But, still, I think I have a chance, you know, to win the next match.  I will try to do it.  I hope I will play better.  I try to be there.  If I have any chances, I will take them, for sure.

Q.  Do you think grass is better for him or better for you in terms of game?

MARAT SAFIN:  I never saw him play on grass, actually.  I don't know.  We'll see day after tomorrow how it will go.  But I don't think he's a grass court specialist - me either.  Is okay.  They can put us on Court 18 again, no spectators.  We can make some good match like clay court style.

Q.  Going back to an earlier theme, you were discussing breaking the racquets.  Can you estimate how many racquets you've broken over the years?

MARAT SAFIN:  Many, many, many racquets.  Too much. 

Q.  Too many?

MARAT SAFIN:  Yes.

Q.  If you break it down today, what made the difference between you a and David Prinosil?  What made you be the winner in the end?

MARAT SAFIN:  Two, three points.  It was I think a little bit of luck maybe.  I think he get scared.  I think he saw that he can win, he has a chance, and he didn't take it.  But I was also lucky, you know, in some shots.  I was there.  I fight for it and I win it.

Q.  Will you go and watch your sister tomorrow?

MARAT SAFIN:  I've seen too many matches already.  I spend a lot of time on the courts.  I need to relax a little bit, otherwise it's too green everything. 

Q.  Do you go to the centre of London sometime?

MARAT SAFIN:  I will.  I went there, yeah.  I will go again.

Q.  To do what?

MARAT SAFIN:  To do what?  Food.  What you can do there.  Not many things, actually, if you know very good London.

Q.  Do you know very good?

MARAT SAFIN:  I know it.  I know it. 

Q.  You said you need to relax a little bit.  Do you feel you've been a bit stressed and a bit tense so far?

MARAT SAFIN:  If you spent in total of ten hours on the court in two days, I think is more than enough.  I think it's too much, especially very close matches.

Q.  In a more general sense, not just time on the court. 

MARAT SAFIN:  I think it's more than general.  If you spend ten hours on the court, you had like very tough matches, you get tired of tennis because you can't be like hundred percent concentrated during I don't know how many hours, ten hours.  I mean, you can't.  You have to relax a little bit, take your time, just forget about tennis for 24 hours.  Because you can't play tennis like non-stop.  You go crazy.

Q.  But you did arrive at the tournament feeling like you needed a break, feeling a little bit stressed?

MARAT SAFIN:  Not before the tournament.  I was ready.  Some circumstances, I had two tough matches, even first round, second round.  I'm glad the guy retire.  I had doubles.  We save two match points.  Today I had five sets, tough match.  It's too much.  For me it's too much.  I get too stressed. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT