WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2001
Marat Safin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Ladies and Gentlemen, Marat Safin.  
 
 
Q.  You obviously have been trying to work your way in, find where your confidence level is throughout this tournament.  Is it tough when a guy retires against you?  You come out of the match not knowing exactly where you are. 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, but I think first set was actually okay.  I played okay.  But the second set, he played unbelievable.  Last two games, it was ridiculous.  From the volleys, he was making dropshots, lobs, winners from return.  I mean, he's great player.  But he played for like 15 minutes unbelievable tennis.  I couldn't do anything against this.  This is why I'm happy that he retired because otherwise it would be a very big problem to beat him.  
 
Q.  When were you first aware that he was having problems?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I didn't actually realise.  I don't know, at the end I think.  He called Doug, the physio. 
 
Q.  Second set?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah.  But he was still playing great tennis.  From the baseline, he was just  -- I couldn't do anything against him.  Then he couldn't walk actually.  He couldn't run to the net.  He just served, but nothing special.  
 
Q.  What did he say to you?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  No, what can he say?  I'm retiring.  I can't play.  Sorry.  
 
Q.  Exactly each word he said?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I don't know exactly words. 
 
Q.  What are your targets now within this tournament? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Try to play my next match because you cannot make big plans for this tournament not playing very well actually.  
 
Q.  And the plans for the whole year?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  You never know because my plans for this year at the beginning of the year was like stay in Top  5.  Now it's my goal to try to be in the Masters, which is 8, 9, try to be there.  I don't know what's going to happen next months.  You can be injured again, just not playing well.  Get the confidence back, play unbelievable tennis here, you can win.  I don't know, some things can change your game completely. 
 
Q.  Can you give me an update of the injury situation?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  It was okay, but now I start to have just a little bit start to bother me again a little bit.  But I think with the time, it will go.  I think it's because I played lot of tournaments.  That's why it's very difficult to recover from the injury completely still playing a hundred percent, still playing tournaments. 
 
Q.  Will you keep on playing a lot of tournaments?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I have to.  I mean, I have to.  Coming now the Super 9's, the Masters Series.  You have to play.  It's things I have to do, I have to play these tournaments.  I can't stop now and just take a rest, you know, something.  I have to keep playing, take care of my back with physios, with everything, just try to play. 
 
Q.  Yevgeny Kafelnikov was here yesterday and he told us he spoke to you, maybe expressed his opinion that it would be better to step back for a while and recover, then return more stronger. 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I don't know, it's his opinion. 
 
Q.  You had some words with him about that?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Maybe.  I don't remember.  But, no, thanks for his opinion, but I know what I'm doing.  Thanks a lot anyway.  
 
Q.  Speaking of points, the other day Andrei Medvedev made the now famous comment that in the former Soviet Union there was a saying that you won one year, then you celebrated the next, then came back and won after that.  Have you been celebrating this year?  Is there any truth?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I've been celebrating when I have a lot of time from the injury.  What can you celebrate this year?  What can you celebrate this year?  What things?  That I get injured?  I didn't win one tournament for six months?  I just make one final?  You cannot celebrate anything.  It's your job.  It's a part of your life.  You make money with this.  There's no time for celebration. 
 
Q.  Was there any kind of letdown after the US Open breakthrough, or not really?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  No, no.  
 
Q.  An important yet silly question.  Why did you cut your hair?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Why I cut my hair?  Maybe now I can be more faster on the court.  I don't know.  I was try to change something.  Maybe it will change my game. 
 
Q.  Has it worked?  What do you think?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  You see the people retire, they get scared (smiling).  
 
Q.  What has Mats been telling you about playing on grass?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  He cannot say many words.  He can give some advice, you know, to take care of the serve, very important the first two points of the game, try to be focused, try to move your feet a little bit more because the bounces are very bad.  Just this.  I mean, you cannot make many comments.  Try to play the same game.  You cannot change completely the game for the grass.  You can add some things.  Yeah, what I'm trying to do, go to the volley.  You cannot go for the volley each time because is not my game.  Nothing else.  Just play the game the way I'm playing on hard court or clay, the same.  Just to try to think a little bit more, try to play a little bit more focused because one, two points can decide the match actually. 
 
Q.  Is your serve as good as it was at the US Open?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I'm trying to get there, but no, I don't think it's working a hundred percent.  Yeah, it's getting better compared to weeks before.  It will be okay for the second week. 
 
Q.  You are a veteran in a short time of the great highs and the great lows of playing professional tennis.  You win a US Open, then the injury.  Andy Roddick is getting this hype around him.  As someone who has been through it, do you have any advice to give somebody?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I don't give advice.  I mean, it's his life, he has a coach.  I am nobody to give advice to anybody.  I think he's great player, that's for sure.  It's not secret.  I think everybody knows that he going to stay in Top 10 for a long time.  I mean, is not a new thing.  He just has a coach.  He doesn't need anything else.  I think the coach, he knows what to do.  
 
Q.  You have a lot of points to defend in the next couple of months.  Does that add a lot of pressure?  Does it discourage you that you have an injury?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I don't care how many points I have to defend because it depends a lot the way how you play.  I mean, if you play okay, doesn't matter if you have to defend final of US Open, quarterfinals in all these tournaments.  Doesn't matter.  If you play well, anyway you can make quarters, semis.  Is not a problem for me.  If I lose the first round, it will not change my life.  If I drop to 20, doesn't matter.  I have a coach.  I know what I want.  I know my best tennis.  So next year.  Nothing going to change.  I'll be in Top 10 for long time.  Probably you will be tired of watching my tennis for next ten years, but I'll be there.  If it's not this year, it will be next year for sure.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT