WIMBLEDON
June 25, 2001
Marat Safin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Good afternoon, Ladies and Gentlemen.  Could I introduce Marat Safin.  
 
 
Q.  How do you rate your play at the moment on grass? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  It's very difficult to play the first match of Wimbledon because it's a little bit difficult because you don't know actually the opponent very well.  Of course, you are a little bit nervous because the first match, you want to win it, you want to get the confidence back.  It's a little bit tough.  
 
Q.  How do you rate your game today? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I could play better, I think.  But I'm satisfied what I did.  I won.  I think it's enough.  It was enough for today.  I hope I'll play better next day - hopefully. 
 
Q.  Is it harder to break a racquet on a grass court?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I try.  No, it's very difficult (smiling).  
 
Q.  I think you're up to it. 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, I will try definitely.  For you, I will try.  
 
Q.  Was that the first time you played Knowle?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yes.  But I knew him from four years ago, we played some challengers together.  I knew more or less how he's playing.  He can play great tennis, I think.  He's a good player. 
 
Q.  Do you think you underestimated him?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Of course, it's a little bit tough.  To go to the court, to look at the ranking, it's 150 in the world.  You think, "Yeah, anyway I'm going to beat him."  At least it's good one way because you have confidence.  Another way it's not good, because if he play very good tennis, you don't wait for it.  It can be surprise.  But he surprise me a little bit because he was twice a break up - second and the third set.  I had to concentrate a little bit more just to finish the match, otherwise I could be in big trouble in the fifth set. 
 
Q.  You look at this guy, two hands both ways, "God, no, not another one"? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Santoro (laughter).  No, he's playing a different way.  I'm happy.  He's hitting the ball.  At least he lets you play.  You have some rhythm.  It was okay for first match of Grand Slam, of Wimbledon.  Is okay.  
 
Q.  How unhappy are you on grass?  Does Mats Wilander help to change both your approach and your mental outlook in the game?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  How you can be, I mean happy?  What's mean happy?  If you winning, you happy.  If you're losing, you not happy.  It's this way.  The way you're playing, you know, you can't be happy on the first round if you make four sets.  You cannot be definitely happy.  But you trying.  You trying.  You have nothing to lose anyway.  Nobody expects anything from you.  They put me even fourth seed.  I was surprised, I was shocked.  "Good, thanks a lot."  Give me another chance to play on grass.  Yeah, keep trying.  I think it's going to work.  
 
Q.  Are you serving with a hundred percent power right now?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yes. 
 
Q.  Hundred percent?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, yeah, I'm trying (laughter).  
 
Q.  Has the real Marat Safin returned?  We've been waiting a long time. 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, but not yet.  
 
Q.  Not quite yet?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Not.  I need some time, to win some matches.  It's difficult to play without confidence at all.  I mean, you're not playing best.  I'm not playing very best tennis.  I'm far from there.  You need to go slowly, try to get the confidence.  It's very difficult. 
 
Q.  Are you confident that you'll regain confidence?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I'm confident  -- I was confident today, but I don't think I'm going to be confident against Nestor.  I'm not sure yet if I'm confident or not.  I need to win some matches.  
 
Q.  Mats Wilander, has he taught you patience on grass?  How has he changed your mental attitude? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  How he can change that, the person?  I mean, he just can explain to me the way I have to play, but he cannot teach me.  He can show me.  Actually, it's me.  I have to understand it. 
 
Q.  But you have a very positive relationship with him as your coach?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, of course. 
 
Q.  And does he have anything extra to teach you about playing on grass?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Extra?  I don't know.  Nothing special.  I mean, what do you have to teach on grass?  It's very bad, fast hard court.  Let's put it this way.  Very, very bad hard court, and very fast.  That's it.  
 
Q.  Are the balls bouncing higher than you recall?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  The balls this year are a little bit heavy.  Everybody has some problems with the shoulders, with the arm.  Lot of guys, they are suffering a little bit because they're too heavy.  It's not nice actually to play with these balls.  They are like stones. 
 
Q.  What do you know about Nestor?  What do you expect playing against him? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Good doubles specialist, no?  Lefty, which is not very nice.  But, yeah, it's one more match.  Try to beat him.  Doesn't matter.  I mean, I want to play, I want to win.  I think it's enough to try to beat him.  
 
Q.  What advice would you have for somebody that wanted to go to one of the legal betting shops and bet on Marat Safin to win the tournament?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Don't do it (laughter). 
 
Q.  Don't do it?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  No.  I don't want to be a bad guy in this situation, no.  
 
Q.  No chance for somebody who bets on you?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  No, no, no, no.  Otherwise I would bet on myself.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT