TMS - ROME
May 9, 2001
Marat Safin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 

THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  In an ideal world, would you play that second set again?

MARAT SAFIN: I would play?


Q.  Replay the second set. 

MARAT SAFIN: Yeah, because I think I played okay the first set, and by the second set I had big chances to finish the match like 2 and 3, 2 and 2.  Just I let him play and just came back.  And the problem, that was the problem, that I let him play in the second set, so he thought that he has a big chance.  In the third set, of course, it was a little bit different, different story, and it was a little bit tough to win this match. But if I would have the same opportunity to play, it would be great. 


Q.  I know you practiced together before, right, yourself and Roger?  But this was the first match you've had.  Was there an element there that you were both very determined to show whatever one could do, you could do better and this sort of thing? Because you're both young players who were waiting to become rivals for a long time.

MARAT SAFIN: Yeah, but with any way, with all my respect to Roger and all these things, I think I am  -- you can't compare.  But I mean we have completely different  -- I think I won more tournaments than him, I have more experience than him.  Sorry, but you cannot compare us. Of course we are  -- he is one year younger, but still, I have more experience.  I already won one Grand Slam title and I have more titles.  The problem is that because I know how to play against him, and I made everything is possible to make  -- I try to make the second break in the first set, so already I don't let him play.  But I couldn't do anything, so it was 6-4.  Then second set, I wanted to make an early break and try to hold the serve.  I made it, but I was a little bit unlucky because I didn't serve for actually one month and a half, I lost it.  So I think I have more experience.  If I would be  -- if it would be match in two weeks, from here to Roland Garros, I think I would have more chances.  I don't think he would have so many chances like today.  I would not let him play for sure.  It would not be for sure the third set.  No chance. 


Q.  How much are you concerned about your shoulder and how much treatment are you having now?

MARAT SAFIN: It's not the shoulder. 


Q.  Beg your pardon. 

MARAT SAFIN: Who cares, no? (Laughing.)  No, I think I get  -- I'm okay.  I'm starting okay.  But still I have no  -- I didn't serve for a long time so still my serve, sometimes I make double-faults which was just ridiculous.  But I think is the reason, I didn't serve for at least for one month and a half, since Dubai I couldn't serve.  So sometimes when I get shaky, I can't serve.


Q.  Has the pain gone?

MARAT SAFIN: No, it's perfect.  It's okay.  I'm very satisfied with it, the injury.  I'm okay now.  At least I have to  -- I can come back, I have two more weeks to prepare for Roland Garros.  I think I will be okay.  


Q.  Since when have you been able to practice?

MARAT SAFIN: I start to practice like backhand, forehand without any problems two weeks ago.  And the serve, I just serve my first time I serve was on Friday before the tournament.  So I mean also it was  -- the way I'm serving now, it's okay.  But anyway, it's not  -- I'm satisfied the way I'm playing.  For the first two days is, I think is great.  But of course you get disappointed because when you are losing to somebody, 7-6 in the third especially, it hurts.  But with the help of Mats, with the help of my friends, it will be great and I'll try to make this year -- at least do something big here  -- do something big.   Because I think everybody's waiting something from me, but for some reasons I can't do it right now because of the injuries.  You have to get back, get used to play long matches, the fitness.  So many things.  I think I have two weeks, I'll be okay for Roland Garros. 


Q.  How has the association with Mats Wilander gone so far? I mean, have you seen each other a lot recently?

MARAT SAFIN: Successful.  I won my first match with him yesterday, and I think is gonna be okay.  He is coming for  -- to Hamburg.  He will stay with me until Roland Garros.  And just keep working and just...


Q.  At the moment he's still playing on the Senior Tour, isn't he?

MARAT SAFIN: Yeah, is also.  He wants to play some tournaments by himself.  That was a agreement.  And I'm satisfied.  So he's coming Friday, Saturday, to Hamburg, and we'll work hard and try to do something. 


Q.  Towards the end of the match you looked pretty tired physically.  How much have you been able to do?  Have you been able to do any fitness during your injury? Nothing or...?

MARAT SAFIN: But it's still what you doing in the fitness, you have to use to play matches.  I mean, you can't come and  -- after the injury for one month and a half, I wouldn't be able to do anything for one month, and last two weeks I start to do something.  I come here and try to win the tournament, it's little bit ridiculous.  It's little bit  -- I mean, the guys who are here are playing unbelievable tennis for already one month, I think, on clay.  Then coming from an injury, trying to beat everybody who's in the draw, I think it's little bit stupid.  So at least one, two rounds, I had a big opportunity today.  But anyway, I was unlucky today but I'm satisfied.  I need few weeks to adjust, get used to playing, and I'll be okay physically and technically, whatever. 


Q.  The fact that most of the big players have lost, is that because it's at the beginning of the preparation phase for Roland Garros? Is it too early in the preparation phase for Roland Garros?

MARAT SAFIN: No, if the people they lose here, it's because they are  -- I mean, the other people are better than them.  I think it's one of the biggest tournaments on the Tour, this tournament, and everybody wants to win.  I don't think it's  -- nobody wants to make prisons of like points, money.  I don't think it's the reason.  I mean, everybody want to win here.  If they lose, it's because they are not in the best shape.  


Q.  Did you break any racquets today?

MARAT SAFIN: Nothing, no.  Not yet. 


Q.  What's your feeling about the seedings controversy at Wimbledon?

MARAT SAFIN: I mean, if I want to get involve in all this things, I don't actually need to get involve.  I don't care if I'm seeded or not.  For me, maximum that I made was second round.   Of course if I want to make something bigger, of course it matters, and I think it's  -- my opinion is that I think if the rules are  -- I mean, rules are rules.  We're playing in the same ATP all Grand Slam titles, all Grand Slam - Australian Open, Roland Garros, US Open, they respect.  Why Wimbledon they really don't have to respect?  I mean it's a little bit  -- sorry, but is not correct for the players and those things.  I don't think it's correct. 


Q.  Would you play if they altered the  --?

MARAT SAFIN: If I am not seeded? If I will play if I'm not seeded?


Q.  Yes. 

MARAT SAFIN: I have to play.  Look at my results.  The beginning of the year, I didn't make any good results.  And also I've been injured, so I have to play anyway.


Q.  You would play anyway?

MARAT SAFIN: Anyway.  But next year if I play a little bit better in the beginning of the year, I will think about this.   I mean, because if there's some people, they trying to make some good results to get seeded in Wimbledon, and the people, they think that's not good enough to play on grass, just...(whistling) Just... It's something that is not correct, but nice. 


Q.  But even if, say, a lot of the members of the Players Council on the ATP say, "We don't agree with what Wimbledon is doing and we think there should be a boycott," say it got to that stage.  As Kuerten has said, if they don't seed according to the 16 on the entry system, you know, it's not right, even if they change a little bit from that.  Would you still play anyway this year?

MARAT SAFIN: I mean the Council... But, it's just a big mess.  I mean if we start now to discuss about these things, it's gonna be ATP involved, the Lawn Tennis Association I think is gonna be involved and gonna be big mess if I say something wrong now.   It's not nice to do all these things to these players, and they have to do something else.  They have to respect us.  I mean, we are running 365 days a year, trying to get the points for Wimbledon to get seeded in Wimbledon, and it's coming there and you are not seeded? Well, you say, "For what I'm playing tennis?" I mean, the people who doesn't know - probably no idea  - some of them have no idea about tennis, they have to decide if I am  -- if I have to be seeded or not.  I think it's not correct.  And I want to say it's my opinion.  And I don't want to get in any polemics or anything.  I think it's just my version. 


Q.  But you're willing to play  --?

MARAT SAFIN: I think this is better. 


Q.  But you are going to play?

MARAT SAFIN: I will play.  Play, play.  I am seeded I think. 


Q.  What do you think about the fact that your sister is playing well here in Italy and she's playing well in general?

MARAT SAFIN: Yeah, she  -- I think she won tournament here last month and she's playing good tournament.  So I'm happy for her. 


Q.  Do you follow her?

MARAT SAFIN: No.  No.  The results, but...


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT