AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 17, 2001
Marat Safin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  First question for Marat.  
 
 
Q.  Richard Gallet (ph) Australian newspaper.  How did you find your form today on the court?
 
MARAT SAFIN: It was a difficult match for me because I wasn't  -- I was a little bit out of the court at the beginning of the match.  So that's why I start to lose  -- that's why I lost first set.  I was just little bit  -- I didn't know what to do, where to return, what I had to do. I was a little bit out of  -- not confidence.  But I didn't know what exactly I need to do to beat him.  I was a little bit confused and also the guy, I mean the guy he played unbelievable tennis.  He make not many mistakes the first two and a half sets.  He was playing great tennis.  And I was just trying to do something.  And finally I found my game in the second and third set.  In the fourth set, I was just a break up, then the guy, he called physio and took him three minutes to do something, I don't know, with the feet.  So I was little bit  -- I lost my concentration.  And that's why I was in trouble in the fourth set.  But I was lucky, and then in the tiebreak, I made some good shots and I won.  I'm happy.  
 
Q.  Do you think you have a pretty easy run going up in the next couple matches?
 
MARAT SAFIN: I don't know who I have to play.  I don't know who's next.  Tabara.  It's already, they are kind of matches they are not easy opponents.  If he pass two rounds, that means he's in good form and he can play some tennis.  But we'll see, I mean... I know that he was a great junior.  He was finalist of European Championships.  I am just one year older -- one year younger.  I know his style, he can play good tennis.  But we'll see.  It's not gonna be easy, definitely.  If I will start the way I started today, I will be in big trouble.  
 
Q.  Are you having any trouble with the injury you had last week at Kooyong?
 
MARAT SAFIN: It wasn't injury.  I was afraid that it can be worser.  When you start to feel something in the elbow, especially in my elbow because I -- once I had big problem, it was one year and a half ago in Roland Garros.  So it was quite the same pain.  I had to stop and I didn't serve for four or five days.  But now here, I have to play with 100 percent.  And if I get  -- if I will break my elbow, my capsule, so it's bad luck.  But I mean these kind of matches you cannot play with second serve definitely.  I am going for full power and just try to take some rest and days off to work with the physio, you know, make some ultrasound and all these things.  And for the moment is okay.  I'm satisfied.  
 
Q.  For sure the capsule is not broken?
 
MARAT SAFIN: No, otherwise  -- I don't know, if the capsule is broken, you cannot stretch the  -- it's very simple.  You cannot stretch like this.  You cannot go like this.  The only move you can make is this.  I had this  -- but was  -- the capsule is very dangerous.  If you ask players that had problems with the capsule, it's very dangerous because you cannot play for one month, one month and a half, two months.  And if it's second or third time you break the capsule, you can make operation.  If you make operation, it will take from four months to six months.  So you decide what you want.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT