TMS - LISBON
December 2, 2000
Marat Safin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MODERATOR: Questions for Marat.  
 
Q. This tournament has ended in disappointment for you. Overall, though, you've had a
fantastic year with a number of achievements. How do you assess your year?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: I think it's not -- the year is not only one tournament, which it was
here. Me, Guga, we played during all the year, from the beginning to the end. Of course,
we get here, you are tired. Is not the same. You don't have the same feeling. Some things
don't work. Probably is mental, technique is going somewhere. Impossible to play very well
during all the year. It's not good to finish the year like this. I mean, Andre and Pete,
they didn't play well. Pete, he didn't play at all after US Open, so he is fresh. He
played a horrible match against Hewitt, but after he played a great game. Also Andre, he's
been injured, as we know, since Lyon, so he had time to rest. That's why he's playing very
well here. We just had no time to rest. Unfortunately, this week, it wasn't the best in my
career, but I'm satisfied what I did during all the year. I'm satisfied with the game,
with myself, with people, with everybody. 
 
Q. How did you injure your ankle? Could you tell us what the problem was?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: It happened today. Just a problem with the shoes. But it's not a big
problem. It happens. But I'll be okay in two weeks. I think I can play tennis next year. 
 
Q. Were they the wrong sort of shoes?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: It was just a problem of shoes, too small. I don't know how to say it.
From here, it's not wide enough (indicating at his heel). Not wide enough. That's the
problem. 
 
Q. Were they gripping the surface too hard?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: Anyway, nothing happened. Going to change the shoes. I will tell please to
adidas to change the shoes. It will be great. I don't think they're going to complain
about this. Just everybody -- to every player, you have to put the right shoes. Somebody
has to wear different shoes. It will be okay. It was a small accident. It's over.  
 
Q. But is your ankle injured, swollen?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: I will survive, for sure. It's going to be okay (smiling).  
 
Q. Have you been wearing the same shoes all week, the same type of shoe?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: Yeah, but I didn't run so much like today (laughter).  
 
Q. Where are you going from here? Are you going to Valencia or Moscow?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: Moscow. I want to go there. I will just spend a few days, few weeks with
my family and with my friends, enjoy my life. It's getting better and better each time.  
 
Q. Are you going to Spartik?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: Unfortunately, not. I can't, for some reasons. 
 
Q. Why?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: It's too far. It's too far. I am too lazy. 
 
Q. You had four chances to break Agassi in the second game. You couldn't convert them.
How much did it affect your game afterwards?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: Enough. I lost very easy. Just probably if I -- if, if, if, all the time
if. If I would break, I would change a little bit the game. Anyway, I didn't had any more
chances than the second game in the first set. Andre, he played too good. He was too fast.
He played very fast. He played great, what can I say? I can't play like this way, fighting
for No. 1. Actually, No. 1 cannot play like this, without serve, without putting pressure
in some moments. Is difficult to beat these kind of players. Probably I'm not satisfied
with my game this afternoon. I'm happy and I'm satisfied enough with the game of this
whole year. I served well, but something just changed in my serve. It doesn't matter. Just
I didn't serve well. That's it. That was the problem. To play against these guys, you have
to serve, that's it.  
 
Q. Did the talk about you having the chance to reach No. 1 bother you and annoy you
over the last couple days?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: I don't think it's already nobody get nervous on the court. Everybody's
playing here. Everybody has enough level to play and beat the top guys. I think yesterday
I didn't play at all, for some reasons, I don't know. I still don't understand why I don't
play. Today, he was too good. I didn't serve well. I don't think it's the problem of
thinking that I can be No. 1. Everything going to come. The numbers are going to come. You
have to show your game. If the game is there, the numbers will come from both sides. I
hope Pete going to make my job.  
 
Q. Are you going to see the game?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: No, I will watch it on TV. Let's see what going to happen. I mean, we'll
see who is the best, if Guga going to win, good luck in the final. He deserve it. If he's
No. 1, he won more things, more tournament. Just he's better than me, that's it. You have
to accept.  
 
Q. Are you going to stay here tomorrow to see the final?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: Yes, uh-huh. I saw enough tennis already this year. I want to go home. I
don't want to see any more tennis at least until next year. 
 
Q. This tournament is unique because of the round-robin and also because of the high
standard of the matches. Because of that, it's totally different from the other
tournaments. Do you think it helps if you already played it once or twice? Does experience
matter in this tournament?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: Experience? Of course. I mean, the guys like Andre and Pete, they spend
ten times here. They came away from Masters ten times. They like going to the hometown
tournament. For them it's very easy to go out there and make a great game and play a
hundred percent. We are the juniors, as everybody knows. We still juniors for Pete, for
Andre. It's a little bit different, a little bit tough to go there because people, they
expect a lot from you. They coming, they want to see real tennis. It's tough. Also the
players are not that different. Is not anymore easy rounds. Everybody's here to win the
tournament. Everybody going to fight and show his best game here. Of course, it's tough.
But that's life. Nobody has an easy life.  
 
Q. You said you didn't serve well. Was this because you couldn't push off on your
injured ankle? It looked like that.
 
 MARAT SAFIN: I didn't serve well already for two or three weeks. I have to work more.
At least there is something in your technique that you have to improve. I'm happy of it
that I have to improve something, otherwise the game gets boring. I will improve it for
next year.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT