TMS - LISBON
December 1, 2000
Marat Safin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Questions for Marat.  
 

Q.  Pete said his defeat in the US Open played a big part in his preparations for the game.  How did you go into the game today against Sampras?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I think I didn't play at all.  I think it was, I don't know, I couldn't hold my serve.  I couldn't pass him.  Actually, I didn't do anything.  Of course, he played very well.  He had his serve.  I'm not satisfied with my game because playing against guys like Pete, you have to, first of all, hold your serve like a normal player from the Top 10, not losing two serves in the second set.  
 

Q.  Pete also hinted before you can become the world's No.  1 player, there's obviously a lot of hard work and a lot to learn.  Is that something you would agree with?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yes, I'm learning.  That's why I'm here.  I have to learn.  
 

Q.  Given that you're so close to taking that No.  1 spot for the end of the year, did that have any influence at all?  Were you at all nervous as a result of that?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  You think I was nervous today?  The question is I didn't play.  I think it's not only the things on the court, it's the things out of the court.  I think everything together was a small disaster today.  I didn't show anything today.  I think the people are not satisfied with my game - me also.  I hope I will change tomorrow.  
 

Q.  But were nerves any part of the reason for you not playing as well as you can do? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Nerves?  I don't think that was the case.  I think it was a little bit different things than nerves.  Just very simple things.  Just I couldn't do the most simple things today.  That's why it was so easy, so fast, without any chances. 
 

Q.  Do you think the loss of this match today will change your mood and your expectations, will harm your performance with Agassi's match tomorrow? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I'm sure if I'm going to play the same way like I played today, I have no chance at all because to play against the guys like Pete, like Andre, like probably all the Top 10 guys, without holding any serves, just cannot play your game.  You cannot win many points, many matches.  Also if I'm fighting for No.  1, which is very important for me, for sure I cannot play like this.  Is not the game which I know, which I played most of the time.  I will have to think about what I'm going to do tomorrow.  But the way I played today, I have no chance tomorrow at all. 
 

Q.  How tired do you feel, not only after this week, but after the whole season?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I think mentally you get tired because after three weeks in a row, maybe once or twice I had one week off holidays.  It's difficult to play like this all the year and hold the same concentration in your head, make a good tennis.  I think I'm going to be okay for next year, but today I don't think that's the case.  Sometimes it happens, just you have no chance, everything is going in the wrong direction, and everything just doesn't work.  That was this day, nothing works at all.  Every passing I made it was on his racquet or it was easy volley for him.  All the time I wanted to pass him, it was a mistake, wrong side because if I playing online, he was already on the line, if I make cross-court, he was already on cross-court.  I mean, that's why it's 6-2, 6-3, without completely any chances.  Of course, I have to say that he played great game, great serve from the second serve, didn't give me many chances.  But the chances I had, just make this. 
 

Q.  Do you know the number of the racquets you broke today, throughout the year?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Two racquets, but is not the most important thing at the moment.  I think just something, frustration, just when you feel that it is not working, it is not working.  During 50 minutes already is not working, you get really mad.  It's not my game.  Also every ball is a mistake.  I didn't make only one right decision, only one in the whole match I make a passing shot.  How can I beat Pete this way?  No chance.  Okay, is one set, you want to start the second set, maybe I have a chance.  Second set is a break, no chance at all.  Of course, you get mad.  Finally you have to do something because everything is in your mind.  It's difficult to play like this.  
 

Q.  Was it your fault or was it Pete that was playing extremely well?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Okay, let's put another way.  Yes, I know that Pete, he plays very good.  But also I'm not the guy who is one thousand in the world.  Sorry, but I'm fighting for No.  1 in the world.  I cannot do this mistakes, not because I'm a genius here, I'm the best in the world, just because I have enough experience, I make some good results this year, I won some tournaments, I won one Grand Slam title, I won a lot of things this year, and I have enough experience to show a good game and pass these kind of people, make passing shots.  But when you can realize that you have no chance at all, you cannot pass him at all, not down the line, not cross-court, not lob, nothing.  Just understand that you are making sometimes ridiculous.  Of course, the guy, in this case Pete, he start to play better and better with more confidence.  After, the result is there, 6-2, 6-2 (sic).  After the match, you start to feel that really you have to think the way you play today, analyze the situation.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT