TMS - LISBON
November 29, 2000
Marat Safin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







ATP: Questions for Marat. 

Q. How would you compare the way you played today with last night?

MARAT SAFIN: How I play today compares to yesterday? 

Q. Yes. 

MARAT SAFIN: Way better. I didn't serve well today because I was twice a break up in
the second set, and I made very easy mistakes. I lost my game without any chances.
Actually, I'm satisfied with my baseline. Sometimes I didn't work enough with my legs. I
was too lazy. But actually, I played quite well. Yesterday I was completely lost on the
court, except the third set when I start to build my game again. I hope I will not make
the same mistakes like yesterday and like today, a break up in the second set against
Pete, you cannot play like this. 

Q. To have two very important tasks in front of you, the year No. 1 and reaching the
semifinals here, does it have influence on your play? It makes you excited a little bit? 

MARAT SAFIN: Excited? I don't think it's very exciting to play against Pete. For sure
it is not very exciting. For the people, yes. But for me, to go from one corner to another
one, try to take his serve, I don't think is the most beautiful job in the world. That's
my job; I have to do this. It's very nice because I am fighting for the place in the
semifinal and also for No. 1. But you never know because Pete is the best player in the
world. But I will have to work a little bit more tomorrow, day after. 

Q. Going to play Pete after the US Open final, is the feeling that you're going to have
a mental edge or do you feel the pressure that you're going to have to prove it again?

MARAT SAFIN: I think it's completely different story. The way I played in the final of
US Open, I will never play again the same tennis. It's impossible. I mean, to beat Pete in
the final of US Open in front of 20,000 people, playing my best tennis without any breaks,
I mean, it's unbelievable. But here, I mean, Pete is getting better and better each day.
Tomorrow he will be very tough, I'm sure. But, for sure, I will have more opportunities.
If I'll be able to take them, I can win. If not, I going to lose (smiling). 

Q. What gives you the most joy in playing tennis? What do you most like about playing
tennis?

MARAT SAFIN: If you ask me the same question when I was six, I will tell you, "I
hate this game." But now I think I'm enjoying this. Actually, is not a game, is a job
already. A game it was when I was ten, when I was nine. Now is a part of my life. I'm
spending during all the year traveling all over the world playing for the people. But, of
course, enjoying this job. Thanks a lot to my parents to push me there because otherwise I
have no future in other sports, for sure. Here, especially now, I never enjoyed my life
more than today, these two weeks. I'm very satisfied with my life. Thanks a lot to tennis.
I'm here talking to you. 

Q. Could you talk a little bit about what it's like playing against Lleyton Hewitt, and
what do you think of his chances in the rest of the tournament?

MARAT SAFIN: Lleyton, I think he's playing probably his best tennis. Today I played
very good. I played, I don't know, close to perfect. He was a little bit unlucky on some
points. But I think he has very good chances because the way he played against Pete, I
mean, it was unbelievable how he returned his serve. I mean, Lleyton is very fast. You
have to play point by point to beat him. He doesn't miss at all. He's serving aces. He can
play from the baseline. He goes to the net. I think he has very good chances. I think he
can beat Alex. But you never know, because Alex, he played very good against me. I was
lucky there also. I mean, Alex, he was a set and 5-3 serve. Today he was also another day
unlucky, two set points, 15-40, five breakpoints in the second set. I think it's going to
be tough match tomorrow. But I'm sure Lleyton, he going to be in Top 10 for long time. 

Q. If you leave Lisbon as No. 1, it is your best Christmas gift?

MARAT SAFIN: I don't know what can be better than this. I don't know. For sure is going
to be the best present, best gift to myself. 

Q. What present will you ask Santa Claus for Christmas?

MARAT SAFIN: We don't count this, no, No. 1? I have so many things in my head. Let's
say one more car, which one I am waiting for from Mercedes, which one I ordered already. I
told you the story. I supposed to pick up it on the week of Stuttgart. Two days after, we
called there, we asked, "What happened with the car?" Just the car has
disappeared from the factory. So I ordered another one. I hope it's going to be ready for
Christmas. That's going to be one of the second best gift for me.

Q. Do you sense that you and Lleyton Hewitt are going to strike up a rivalry in the
next five, six, seven, eight years to stand alongside rivalries like Sampras and Agassi?

MARAT SAFIN: It will be nice. It will be really nice. I don't think is going to be
another -- I hope I'm going to be wrong. It's not nice to talk about yourself what I'm
going to say now. What Pete and Andre, they did for tennis, I mean, that's huge. It would
be great is going to be another two guys who going to take their places. Who going to be
there? I don't know. 

Q. At the moment, it's a fair bet it's going to be you and Lleyton. 

MARAT SAFIN: It will be great. But you never knows. 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT