TMS - LISBON
November 28, 2000
Marat Safin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MODERATOR: Questions in English.  
 
Q. You spoke about nerves in Paris a few days ago. Were you nervous at the start?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: I wasn't nervous, but I was a little bit angry with myself that I didn't
make so stupid mistakes. I mean, I 5-3 in the first set, 5-4 serving for the set. My
confidence, my concentration completely gone. Alex, he serve for the match. But then
suddenly everything just changed. He just let me play a little bit more. He let me get
into the match. Because he serve all the time from the second serve, so he gives me an
opportunity to make him a break. Finally, satisfied with my third set after these two
horrible sets. Finally I found my game. It gives me confidence, at least.  
 
Q. With the fact you're reunited with your coach, how important is that and what does
he bring to your game?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: I think it's important for me because he knows me very well. He knows me.
We know each other since 14 years old, since I was 14. He knows what I need in each moment
of the match. Sometimes we get angry on each other, but it's normal. I mean, we know too
good each other, so it's almost after the match it's not any problem. But in the match,
when I get nervous, you have to shout on someone, so we shout on each other. We get angry
in the difficult moments of the match. But I need him. I definitely need him because he
support me a lot, gives me confidence.  
 
Q. Is he responsible for you winning or losing?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: For what?  
 
Q. If you win a match, is it because he has helped you? If you lose a match, is it
because he didn't help you enough? 
 
 MARAT SAFIN: No, I think it's also we have to be -- we have to understand that it's
anybody's fault. It's my fault because I'm losing the match, definitely. But also you need
some help when you are out there. You need some not support, but to hear something new
because sometimes you get lost in the match. From the side, you can see what is happening
on the court. And I need it. I need someone to help me. So sometimes I get nervous because
I don't receive anything. You know, I don't receive some few words that you need to know
what is going wrong. Because today, as you can see, in the first two sets, something was
going wrong. I didn't know what happened, so I need to, you know, show something, to tell
me something, you know, to get me back to the match. But also if I lose, it's anybody's
fault. First of all, it's my fault, definitely.  
 
Q. Who do you think is favorite next week in the Davis Cup final and why? 
 
 MARAT SAFIN: With all my respect to Australian team, I mean, they have great players:
Lleyton, Mark and Patrick, great doubles. But we have to understand that they going to
play in Barcelona, in Spain. It's probably going to be probably 10,000 Spanish people, you
know, with the flags, with everything, with all the things you can imagine just for
Spanish team. Also they're playing on clay. It's going to be very slow clay, so I don't
think -- of course, they have chances, but the favorites for me are the Spanish team
because they're playing at home, because it's going to be slow clay court. I think is
enough.  
 
Q. You said that you only found your game in the third set. In the first two, did you
feel pleased of the way things were going? Did you feel any way happy with this victory?
How do you feel it, in general?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: In general, for the first day, I think it's okay. But also I'm not happy
because I put in a wrong way all my game. It was a big mistake. I mean, 5-3, I was playing
okay. I was doing the minimum that's possible to beat him. He just beat me first two sets,
and suddenly I decide to play tennis. Already I start from the beginning, and was getting
better and better and better. Finally in the third set, it was okay. But also you can
realize that No. 1 cannot play like this, like second set and like first. 
 
Q. It's hard to hear, so you may have been asked this question, but how much is No. 1
on your mind when you're playing these matches now? Are you thinking about it out there? 
 
 MARAT SAFIN: First of all, it's responsibility. You have to be responsible because No.
1 -- I mean, it's nice to be No. 1, right? At least once in your life, it's nice. But also
when you're going to the court, you have to understand, you have to have in your mind that
you are No. 1. You cannot do stupid things. Yes, of course, breaking racquets, shouting,
it's normal. But, I mean, making so many mistakes, get lost in the match, I didn't know
where to run, no serve. I mean, of course, the guy, he played very well also. I don't want
to say that I didn't play at all. I was there. I fighting. I fighted there. But also I was
responsible because I No. 1. I have to fight. At least I have to show something to the
people because they're coming here to watch the No. 1. 
 
Q. I mean, how much motivation this week is the idea of finishing the year No. 1? Are
you thinking about it?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: Enough motivation to play, but it's tough also. I mean, everybody wants to
beat you, it's normal, and you have to give all your best on the court. Of course, I would
like to finish No. 1 this year. It would be great. 
 
Q. By winning today, you eliminated Sampras mathematically from contention for
finishing No. 1. Can you comment on that?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: Sorry about that. That's life.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT