TMS - LISBON
November 27, 2000
Marat Safin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Questions for Marat.  
 

Q.  How many stitches did you get?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Three.  
 

Q.  How did you feel?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  After the stitches or after the match?  
 

Q.  Stitches. 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  You feel nothing.  You cannot do anything.  Is only one week.  
 

Q.  How many days did you rest?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Two days.  
 

Q.  You went to Monte-Carlo?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I had to go there because I live there.  
 

Q.  Did you practice?  Do you like the place?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, it's good.  It's normal surface from Stuttgart to all the Super 9's, except Paris Bercy, was Taraflex or something like this.  Stadium is very nice, good atmosphere, doesn't look so big, 11,000 people can get in.  I think that's good.  
 

Q.  If you look back at your schedule, would you be satisfied with it?  Would you do the same thing next year? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  The problem is, first of all, I didn't expect that I'm going to fight for No.  1 in the world.  I thought at least try to be in Top 20, but now I'm fighting for No.  1.  I'm a little bit surprised for myself that I did all these things actually in seven months, since April.  Before April, I only win four matches.  Next year, it's going to be different.  You have to defend.  Everybody wants to beat you.  How it's possible the young tennis player from Russia can be No.  1?  Everybody wants to beat you.  Also the people, they expect something more from you.  People from Russia see No.  1.  Everybody think he got to be there for long time.  It's difficult.  Pete I think is the greatest player in the world.  Nobody is going to be the same like him.  It's a little bit different story, but we'll see next year.  
 

Q.  How about your schedule? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I think it's going to be less tournaments.  Definitely because it's difficult to play.  I'm already tired.  I played 30 tournaments this year without Davis Cup.  Two weeks more, Davis Cup, done.  I think it's too much.  But I think next year it would be nice to play less tournaments, but more quality.  
 

Q.  Like Sampras and Agassi, for instance?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yes.  But I'm not even close.  At least to get something, some good things from them. 
 

Q.  (Inaudible)?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I think I have more opportunities to win there because it's a clay court.  I play quite well there.  More chances I have there.  But also it would be nice to win there because actually there I start my real tennis career and get in Top 100 when I beat Andre and Gustavo.  It would be nice to finally win the tournament there.  
 

Q.  You said now everyone wants to beat you.  Do you feel like that, all the other opponents in this tournament want to be No.  1? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Of course.  It's like in all the sports   - somebody is getting to the top, everybody wants to show him that he is not alone there fighting for No.  1.  In this case it's me, so I have to let's see how I will do, how I will play this week, with the pressure, with all these things.  I hope they going to be okay.  I will try to make my game.  If I make my game, I will have more chances.  
 

Q.  About your opponents, which one do you fear most? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I think everybody knows sitting on the tables, favorite is Pete.  I mean, everybody is afraid of him.  
 

Q.  If you meet Pete Sampras in the final, you have (inaudible)? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  If I meet him in the final?  
 

Q.  Would you like that? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  No, but that's life.  We'll see.  I mean, to meet Pete in the final, you can win one from ten maybe.  I won the US Open, but now I don't think that I'm a favorite.  I mean, Pete, how many times he win here?  Five times the Masters? 
 

Q.  (Inaudible)?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  He will pass through the qualifying rounds and win the tournament.  Everybody knows this.  I think he going to win.  
 

Q.  Vladimir Putin, did he say anything to you?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  He has no time to meet me.  He has more important things to do.  He send me a telegram, is more than enough.  I'm going to put it on a small nice paper. 
 

Q.  Are you going to keep it as a souvenir?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Of course.  At least you can show it to your kids, show them that I've been the No.  1, otherwise they will not know.  
 

Q.  Do you follow the politics in Russia?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Actually, yeah.  I mean, is difficult story.  Follow the politics?  First of all, they exaggerate a lot.  I don't like that.  Also they're telling too much, but not realistic things, a lot of this.  It's not realistic:  People are coming to me saying, "Russia is so bad."  What is so bad?  Of course, they're showing people without legs, these things.  Doesn't matter.  Why don't they show New York or Bronx or whatever?  It's the same story.  For me, it's not nice.  I don't want to see it.  Of course, watching the important things, but normally I don't like to watch because they're telling too much, which is not true, exaggerate.  
 

Q.  Are you happy to work again with your former coach?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, because I need him.  I was there  -- he was there and he knows me very well.  It's very easy to work with him. 
 

Q.  Will you work with him next year?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Let's see after here.  That's life.  You have to decide if it's the right decision or if it's not.  I'm going to decide after here, if I'll have time.  After we'll sit down and decide.  
 

Q.  And you'll talk with Ion?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Ion is good for advice, but finally it's my decision.  You can get some advices, but nothing else.  
 

Q.  How important is Davis Cup for you? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I want to win at least once.  I don't think we're too lucky this year.  Next year wasn't too lucky with the draw.  As you can see, Spain, they've been so lucky.  Yes, they played, and they have very good players, but they play all the matches in Spain.  I would like to play also all.  
 

Q.  But is it important for you?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Of course.  I would like.  I will go for it.  I think with Yevgeny, finally we can do this because we never won once.  I think now is the time.  I think we can do it.  I hope we can do it next year.  
 

Q.  Do you know there's more interest in Russia since you've been doing so well?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Of course.  Also because we have eight girls I think in the Top 100, two guys in the Top 10, another two is close to the Top 100.  
 

Q.  Is tennis booming now?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I hope so.  It was a boom when it was Volkov, Chesnokov, Yevgeny starting, but then it was going a little bit down.  I think for already two years, it's going up and up.  More people they want to invest, they start building courts, St.  Petersburg, Moscow.  A lot of kids want to play tennis.  For us, it's very important to promote tennis as much as we can in Moscow, in all Russia.  It's for the kids, nothing else.  
 

Q.  When you finish your career, do you intend to stay in Moscow or to live in Monte-Carlo, Europe?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I don't know what's going to happen tomorrow.  You ask me what's going to happen in years?  I hope I can live in Monte-Carlo, I hope I can live in Moscow, travel a lot, have an ATP there, have a big house.  What better going to happen tomorrow.  
 

Q.  Do you like that your future son will be a tennis player? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  It doesn't matter if he's  -- if he'll go to tennis, be a football player, basketball.  At least he has to do something because it's very important that he's doing something, he's trying to get to the top.  It's very important for the kids, for my kids at least.  They have to be somebody.  Many kids, they are living on money of parents.  That's horrible.  I will not do this to my kids:  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT