US OPEN
September 10, 2000
Marat Safin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MODERATOR: Questions for Marat. 

Q. You said if you were scared a minute before you went out, you wouldn't be able to
talk. Do you remember saying that?

MARAT SAFIN: Yeah, I didn't talk on the court, I just played.

Q. Were you scared?

MARAT SAFIN: When I was really scared, it was in the last game. Actually, last two
games. I think I had breakpoint for the 5-2, 5-1, I don't remember. 

Q. Two. 

MARAT SAFIN: Yeah. So I knew if I would miss this, I can lose, so I was already start
the game with my service game. I start with a lot of pressure myself. That's why I make
double-fault. I didn't know what to do. I was under pressure. I couldn't play. I couldn't
serve. I serve all the time with a second serve. I was close to lose it. I don't know what
going to happen if I lose this game. I don't want to think about this. I was completely --
I was so nervous, I cannot explain what I felt. "It's now or it's never, never going
to be." 

Q. Why were you not scared before? It's your first Grand Slam final. 

MARAT SAFIN: Because I didn't even think about final. I was trying to beat Pete. Just I
knew what I had to do. I made it try to hold my serve. I think from the baseline I'm
better than him. He has to accept this, that I'm better than him on the baseline. But in
other parts of the game, he's much better than me. So with my baseline, I can win my
service games easy because I didn't actually had big problems with this. Also with his
serve, I knew I have to risk sometimes. I have to return his legs and after I have to pass
him. It's simple. I know it's not simple, but it's simple to understand. Otherwise, you
have no chance to beat him. If you start to make great returns, 200 kilometers per hour,
you're not going to beat him. So it's very simple. We return to his legs and after we pass
him. Very easy. 

Q. When did you feel you had control of the match today?

MARAT SAFIN: Not until we finish, you know, yeah (smiling). Not before.

Q. Even after being up two sets?

MARAT SAFIN: It doesn't matter two sets. It doesn't matter if it's two sets and I had a
match point. Doesn't matter. We can see against Todd Martin against Moya,
two-sets-to-Love, match point. After what happened? 

Q. You're obviously quite right, this is one of the greatest moments of your life,
fantastic occasion. 

MARAT SAFIN: How do you know (laughter)? 

Q. How can you relate the feelings now to those you were feeling, say, going into
Monte-Carlo in April?

MARAT SAFIN: I was much better in Monte-Carlo. No, it's difficult to explain because I
just won a tournament, a huge tournament, but it's a lot of attention, I can see it,
everybody wants to ask me. It's one step forward. 

Q. Could you have imagined then? You must have had some disparaging moments then.

MARAT SAFIN: I think about quitting the tennis in Indian Wells. Now I won the US Open.
Just I played -- I start to play better, and before I was thinking to stay in the Top 20.
With luck, I can finish in Top 20. Maybe I can go to Top 15. Now I'm thinking about to be
for No. 1 in the world. I have a big chance, so it's a big difference, I think.

Q. Was there one thing that turned that around for you, a match with somebody, a
conversation you might have had with somebody that turned things around for your year?

MARAT SAFIN: I think Andrei, he just explain to me, and I understood this. My ex-coach,
he was explaining the same thing. I'm just start to understand it now. But he was
explaining the same thing like he did Andrei Chesnokov. I don't know how I understood
better Andrei than my ex-coach.

Q. What was it?

MARAT SAFIN: What was it? "Just fight. When you're playing bad, you have to
fight." I didn't fight. You know how many matches I lose 6-Love in the second set? I
mean, it was a disaster. I was just making Christmas presents. I cannot do this. So I
start to fight. I was playing -- I didn't play my best tennis in Barcelona, but I start to
fight. I had a tough match against Zabaleta, a tough match against Portas. Then my
confidence came. I start to play already with a big serve, inside the court, putting
pressure all the time. I just found it in two days, three days. I don't want to lose it
now. 

Q. Do you believe in destiny? Did you see something written before coming here? You
were so convinced in the third round saying, "I came here not to win the quarters or
semifinals, I came here to reach the final and win." 

MARAT SAFIN: I was right. I was right. No, because if you come here, if you have in
your head make quarters, last 16, semifinal, what is this? It's nothing. Actually, it's
nothing. You have to come to the tournament, to Grand Slam tournament mentally to win, to
win it. Why not? Why I can't win it? I have everything to be in the final, even beat Pete.


Q. But you never said that in the previous tournaments. 

MARAT SAFIN: Yeah, I start to convince myself, otherwise I have to think in positive
way, not negative. I came here and said, "I come here to win. If it works, it
works." Sometimes it doesn't work, but at least you have in your head that you want
to win here. So already you have inside to your body to win, to win each round, you know,
just show to the people that I want to win this tournament. It doesn't matter with who I'm
playing, it doesn't matter in which court. I want to be in the final. I want to win.
That's it.

Q. How important was it that you had clothes given to you from Kiefer on your way to
this win?

MARAT SAFIN: Gives me luck. Gives me luck. 

Q. Without his clothes, how would you have done it?

MARAT SAFIN: Without his clothes? I would smell on the court, that's it. 

Q. When you played Pete earlier this year, did you see any tendencies in his game that
you thought you might be able to exploit?

MARAT SAFIN: Before? 

Q. When you played him earlier this year, did you see any tendencies of his that you
thought you could exploit or work on?

MARAT SAFIN: Everybody knows how to play against Pete, but nobody can beat him.
Normally. Earlier in the year, I would not -- is no chance to beat him. I was playing so
bad, maybe I would win one game in both sets, that's it. But now with the confidence, you
know how to play, you have to receive, you have to risk sometimes, you have to be sure
when you're going out to the court. But is also difficult to play against him when you are
out of confidence. When you are with confidence, it's easier. You have to make right
decisions in right moments. If you miss one shot, the set is gone, so you have to be a
hundred percent sure what you are doing on the court.

Q. You said earlier that you had no confidence until you had won the match. Does this
match change your confidence level? Do you not think that you can't lose one point for
giving away the match? Will you be different when you come to play tennis next time?

MARAT SAFIN: Explain one more time. 

Q. Is your confidence level much higher now, now that you've won?

MARAT SAFIN: Of course, of course. But, you know, the confidence is coming and is going
very fast, very fast. One week you're playing great tennis, like I did last year, I played
great tennis during two weeks. It was unbelievable for me. Playing great tennis for two
weeks, make two semifinals, it was huge. After, the confidence gone until the tournament
in Boston. It was like five months, something like this. I couldn't put one ball inside
the court. Now I have the same situation, I have my confidence back. It's already during
five months. You have to understand this situation, this feeling. You have to hold it
because the game is there. The problem is in your head, nothing else. You have a head, and
you sometimes use it. You can play great tennis. Otherwise, with only the shots, there's
no chance. Now I have this situation that I'm playing with a lot of confidence, so tennis
is much easier for me, much more easy.

Q. Pete just made a very strong statement. He said you could be No. 1 for many, many
years. Maybe you don't want to think about it. What is your response? What are your
thoughts about that comment?

MARAT SAFIN: Thank you very much, but I'm still No. 2 or No. 3 I'm going to be. Thanks
a lot to respect me, first of all.

Q. Is this the best match you ever played? Was it the best return of serve you ever
made?

MARAT SAFIN: Probably I can say it was best match when I return. I was returning -- I
didn't return better in my life. But sometimes I was thinking too much from the baseline
because I knew I'm better than him and I can't lose a point against him, so is not
correct. You have to be -- you have to play your game. I start to push the ball inside the
court. The last game was the same situation. I start to push the ball. I start to wait for
his mistakes. You cannot do this. You have to play your game. If you start to push the
ball, you can lose your game in five minutes. After you have to run from one side of the
baseline to other side. So I hope I'll not do the same mistake, otherwise it can cost me
the final. 

Q. When you were age 14, you moved to Spain, you were very lonely, did you ever dream
about this moment?

MARAT SAFIN: Never, never. When I was 14, I was thinking about how to get my first
point in a Satellite. To get a point in Satellite, you know how difficult is it? It's very
difficult. I was thinking about this. I was playing quallies. I couldn't pass one round in
the qually. To get one point, you have to pass two or three rounds in the main draw.

Q. Most kids dream of winning a Grand Slam, holding the trophy. You didn't?

MARAT SAFIN: No. For me it was more important Satellites (laughter). 

Q. How do you feel now about winning the US Open?

MARAT SAFIN: I don't have time to think. After when I go to the locker room, maybe I
start to think about this. Now, it's just nice trophy. I hope I will take it with me. I
can't explain to you right now what I feel. I'm still a little bit in the match, in the
last game. It's very difficult feeling it was in the last game. I had adrenaline all over
my body. I was so scared, I didn't understand. Now it's difficult to go out from this
situation. I cannot think about how great is it to win a Grand Slam. 

Q. If you think back to the whole tournament, what do you think was the toughest match
that you had in the tournament? In the early rounds you struggled. 

MARAT SAFIN: Three times I struggled, with Guardiola, Pozzi, Grosjean. I was almost on
the plane with Grosjean. It was 7-6 in the fifth set. I was two sets up. I don't know what
I start to do in the court. In half an hour, I lost two games. I was already a break down
in the fifth set. I felt like I don't know how to play tennis anymore. I was making so
many mistakes. I was running. I was just running all over the court. I didn't have any
time to think. After, when I get through this rounds, I just said, "Marat, come on,
let's concentrate, just play your game, make it three sets, and go home." I start to
make it with Ferrero. With Kiefer, it was a little bit difficult, but I made it. I found
my game after match of Grosjean because I was scared to lose. I just understood that I can
lose here very easy.

Q. Early in the third set, you've already beaten Pete Sampras, up two sets, early
break, were you as shocked as the crowd was?

MARAT SAFIN: I'm already three years on the Tour, so I'm used to play with the crowd,
you know, with this huge crowd. I played like in Moscow also against Slovakia in the Davis
Cup. Was the same, but for us. You don't think about this when you already played for
three years on the ATP. You play your game. You don't think about spectators. It's a
little bit different. 

Q. Where did you get that point?

MARAT SAFIN: Which one? 

Q. The point you were looking for, the Satellites. 

MARAT SAFIN: Spain. I was very happy - more than now (smiling). 

Q. Do you remember who you beat and where?

MARAT SAFIN: I beat guys like David Sanchez, he's 90 in the world, Peuntas (ph), he's
100. For me, they were like 400, 300. I had no points at all. When I beat them, it was
unbelievable for me. It was something incredible. I was more happy than now.

Q. More money?

MARAT SAFIN: More money also. 

Q. Despite your nervousness in the match, Pete said he's not sure you could have played
any better. Can you look at that and just see the fact that you beat a guy who is 13-2 in
Grand Slam finals, pretty much blew him away, can you look at what you did? Are you in
awe, as a lot of people who were there were?

MARAT SAFIN: Probably I was less nervous than him because for him it's very important
to win here, in New York with the crowd. I mean, 20,000 people coming to see you. I just
-- I'm the guy from Russia who had not a lot of spectators here, so I had nothing to lose,
completely nothing. So I just played my game. I was relaxed. He has a lot of pressure on
him because everybody wants him to win here. I'm just one guy who came here. I didn't feel
any pressure, except the last game. Then I start to think, "Yes, I can win."
Pete, he become a little bit bigger on the court. He was all over. You know, he become
huge. The racquet is huge. Everything is huge.

Q. Was it easier than you expected? 

MARAT SAFIN: Actually, I didn't expect it's going to be three sets. But I returned very
well, definitely. I can't return better, any better. I can't. I just made it. That's why
it was maybe so easy. Probably he didn't play his best game also. But it's difficult to
explain what happened.

Q. Before the finals, Alexander Volkov said you were in a hurry to get back to Spain to
your girlfriend, Sylvia. Then after the match, he said you were in a hurry to get back to
Tashkent. 

MARAT SAFIN: I have to go to Tashkent.

Q. What about Sylvia?

MARAT SAFIN: She has to wait. I mean, the business is business.

Q. Champagne is already here. 

MARAT SAFIN: Yeah, but everybody start drink without me.

Q. Are you going to get drunk tonight?

MARAT SAFIN: Guys, what do you want me to say yes to put in the press? Between us, I
hope so (laughter). It's for free. If you want also, it's for free.

Q. You went from being a clay court player primarily in Europe to winning maybe the
most important hard court tournament in the world. How did you do it? 

MARAT SAFIN: You cannot believe, but it's very simple. I become a fighter. I start
understand better the game. I start to fight on the court. That's it. Is not so difficult
to play this game. But you have to fight. You have to be there on the court. If it's five
hours, you have to be during five hours there, running all over the court, point by point,
be there, be tough. After, everything is coming.

Q. Can you believe now you were fined for tanking a match earlier this year?

MARAT SAFIN: What? 

Q. I'm told that you were fined for tanking a match earlier this year. 

MARAT SAFIN: Yes, but I don't know why the press -- somebody put that I just pick up
the ball with my hand from the serve. I didn't.

Q. You didn't?

MARAT SAFIN: No, I didn't do this. Probably I was angry with myself. I return one serve
on the fence. Another return, I just wanted to make a dropshot. Maybe it wasn't the right
decision, but I wanted to make dropshot. Just went to the net. The guy just said that it's
for tanking. I mean, at least I'm in history already.

Q. Is this ring around your neck of any special significance or do you wear it just for
the US Open?

MARAT SAFIN: Yeah, especially I bought for the final. It's from my sister.

Q. Is it good luck?

MARAT SAFIN: Yes. Actually, it's funny. When she just make me a present, I start to win
matches, I start to play great. It gives me luck.

Q. When did she give it to you?

MARAT SAFIN: In a Challenger in Holland. I was like 400. She make me a present. I
finish the year in top 200. I'm still with it. I'm already 6 in the world.

Q. When was this? When did you get it?

MARAT SAFIN: Three years ago. 

Q. Will you ever say now that your sister will be better than you?

MARAT SAFIN: My sister? 

Q. Yes. 

MARAT SAFIN: I hope so. At least I have a big future coaching her. 

Q. How will winning the US Open Championships change you as a man and how will it
change your life?

MARAT SAFIN: Explain me one thing: Why you have to change? Why? Because of this
(pointing to trophy)? I just win a huge tournament. I get this. Yes, I have a check of
$800,000, it's here (pulling it from his pocket, all folded up). That's it. 

Q. Did you sign the check already?

MARAT SAFIN: No. I have to get it out. The money in cash, I will take in cash
everything.

Q. When you went for the dropshot early in the match, you slipped on the court, did you
have any concern about hurting yourself?

MARAT SAFIN: No, you don't think about this. 

Q. I was worried. 

MARAT SAFIN: At least for me the match can finish a little earlier so I don't have this
headache on the court. 

Q. Pete said you could be No. 1 for many years if you wanted to. Are you aware of the
sacrifices you need to make?

MARAT SAFIN: No, I don't want really (laughter). Of course, I want. Of course, I want. 

Q. How much you want it, how much you want to be champion. 

MARAT SAFIN: There is different levels how much you want. For me it's one level. I
want. I definitely want. I want. If I have this opportunity, I will do this. If I can stay
for one year, for one week, I will make it. If I have a chance to make it for seven years,
for ten years, I will make it also. Everybody has opportunity to be in top. But if you
want, you can be there. I want. I personally want. 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT