US OPEN
September 5, 2000
Marat Safin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MODERATOR: Questions for Marat.  
 
Q. You finally got by in three sets. Does it feel good?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: Yes. 
 
Q. You've had to work pretty hard to get here. 
 
 MARAT SAFIN: Of course. I passed one match from four sets and two matches in five sets.
The last one was in the tiebreak. I was lucky to win two days ago, so now I was lucky to
win this match so easy. I think if you work very hard, you have a difficult match
definitely in every tournament. I hope it was two days ago. I hope it will never happened
again to me. I hope also that it's going to be much more easier. I'm not sure, but I hope
so, that I can play much, much better than I played two days ago, like I played today, so
I can have some chances at least to be in the final. I said already that I'm not coming
here to make fourth round, not quarters, not semifinal, I came here to win, and I'm going
to do everything to do this. If somebody going to be better than me, I have no problems
with it. But I'm here to fight, to win this tournament. So if I play like this, I can do
it. I think so.  
 
Q. Did you play very, very well today, and did he also play pretty bad?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: Yeah. I think because you cannot describe with other words. I think he
played not his best tennis, for sure. Also, I mean, three sets, 6-1, 6-2, 6-2, it means
something that I also can play tennis, and I can play very good. So it's not only his
fault that he didn't play well. Yes, that's true also. But you have to say also that I
served well, I didn't let him play since the beginning. I played very good from the
baseline. Also I didn't let him play. I didn't let him to make his game, which was very
important since the beginning, just to start to put pressure on him. Otherwise, it's very
difficult to beat him if he's playing his game because he's very fast player, very good
hands, and he's always played two, three shots. It's always difficult. He played very good
also. He opened very good angles. If he's in good shape, it's no chance to beat him. So I
did my job. I didn't let him play. That's it. That's why I think he couldn't play, he
couldn't play better.  
 
Q. Is it difficult to play a fourth round match at a Grand Slam in a very empty stadium
like that? 
 
 MARAT SAFIN: If I would be a spectator, I would go home not because of the match, maybe
because it's too cold to stay there definitely.  
 
Q. Is it disappointing for you as a player to have so few people?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: I don't care. Of course it's much more fun to play with a lot of
spectators. But if I win 6-1, 6-2, 6-2 without the spectators, it doesn't bother me. I
think the spectators, they have some other things to do. I think if they're not here, they
have to be somewhere, no?  
 
Q. Do you feel at this stage that the fast hard courts suit you even better than the
clay?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: Two years ago, everybody told me that I can play only on clay. Now the
people, they say I play better on hard. It's means that I can play everywhere, not because
I'm 6 in the world. It means that I won two tournaments on clay, so I can play there also.
I won one Super 9 on hard court, so I can play also on hard court. I can't play yet on
grass, but I'm working for this. I think I need a little bit more of experience. If you
propose to yourself something, I think you can get -- maybe when I'm going to be 30, I
will play better on grass. At least I'm trying. Definitely I can play on clay, and I'm not
playing very bad if I'm also in quarters at US Open. So you decide.  
 
Q. What surface do you prefer?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: Okay, like this? You build the question like this (laughter)? Doesn't
matter. When you're playing good, you can play everywhere, I think. When you are out of
shape, you cannot play anywhere. If it's clay, there is a lot of bad bounces. If it's hard
court, it's very fast. You cannot find the best surface when you're playing bad. But if
you're playing good, you can play everywhere. Not yet on grass, but I hope next year. 
 
Q. Did you bring with you today a lot of socks, shorts, shirts?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: Yeah. I get a lot of stuff here. I hope I will do it next day the same, to
be a little bit more professional. 
 
Q. Do you think you had the problems on Sunday because you don't have the proper coach
to take care of your shorts and your socks? Is that the problem?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: Because I make the five sets?  
 
Q. No, because you had problems with your socks and shorts. If you had a full-time
coach, he could take care of that. 
 
 MARAT SAFIN: Yeah, I think I need the coach definitely for this only (laughter).  
 
Q. What is the difference between having Chesnokov and Volkov as coach? What is the
main difference between the two guys?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: I cannot say because if I said bad about Chesnokov, he going to kill me,
otherwise Volkov going to kill me.  
 
Q. Give the good points of both, if there are. 
 
 MARAT SAFIN: Of course. Of course. Let me think. I think Chesnokov, he's a hard worker,
definitely. I mean, he can run thousands of kilometers on the court. He was a big fighter,
not so much talent like Alexander. Alexander, he live in a different world. He can see the
tennis from other dimension. Nobody can understand tennis like him. For him, tennis is
very simple - too simple. Did you ever seen him play?  
 
Q. Yes. 
 
 MARAT SAFIN: I mean, the guy, he never move. You see the court, how can he get these
balls? It's amazing. He make the tennis very simple for him. I don't know if it's the job
of his coach. If it's his coach, it's unbelievable. If you make the guy so good, you take
from the guy so much talent. For him, if he can explain to you about tennis, tennis is so
simple. There's just different vision of tennis. Andrei is just a hard worker. He just
show you how to work, how to be professional. Alexander, how to make tennis much more
easier. I think I'm right. 
 
Q. Is it simple for you to understand what he says?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: From the beginning, I couldn't understand him. What are you talking about?
Now I start to understand. 
 
Q. Can you talk about your mental development since Roland Garros, where you lost a
very tough match, to where you are right now, and whether you think you can win a big
match two days from now, four days from now?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: I think I'm the same like it was in Roland Garros. I just getting a little
bit more of experience each time I'm playing. I'm much more stable on the court. I can
play, I can realize situation when I'm in the fifth set. I can play tennis. I'm not going
crazy. I'm not breaking any more racquets. It just help me a lot to be hundred percent
concentrate on the court. In Roland Garros I wasn't the way to where I am now. Now is
another level. I have to step to another level if I want to be better than now. Just you
have to build something more. You need something new, you have to work on your mentality
definitely. It's not the end; it's just the beginning to where I want to be.  
 
Q. Where do you want to be?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: I impressed you, huh? Also myself (laughter).  
 
Q. Where do you want to be, Marat?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: If it's possible, if the God will let me, No. 1 in the world. Why not? I
am 6. I think is not enough. If the people will let me, I will be there. Otherwise I will
be satisfied with No. 2 - but I will fight for it, for No. 1. 
 
Q. Do you think you'd be satisfied with No. 2?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: No. But if the people will not let me, I have to be satisfied with No. 2.
Right now I want to be No. 1. When it's going to be my time, I will try to do this. 
 
Q. Pete Sampras said earlier in the tournament when he wanted to be No. 1, it took
absolute commitment of his entire life, he had to move away from his family. He said he
didn't really see anybody else on tour who he thought could become a dominating No. 1,
didn't see anybody who he felt had that great level of commitment. Do you think you have
it in you to do it?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: I think so. But we'll see - we'll see (smiling). Not this year, because
there's other guys like Kuerten, like Norman, they start to play tennis from January. I
start to play tennis from April. Four months, five months even, it's difficult now to
think about No. 1. Next year we can talk about this. I hope I will start from January like
normal person, normal tennis player - not like somebody somewhere who starts from April. 
 
Q. It just has been a while since I heard a young player say, "I want to be No.
1." Kafelnikov at one point said, "I'm tired of being No. 1."
 
 MARAT SAFIN: And you believe him? You think we are stupid here on ATP Tour? Everybody
wants to be No. 1. Is only 15 or 16 guys that were No. 1 in the world. How many?  
 
 MARAT SAFIN: 17, sorry. It must be tough to get there. But definitely I'm a hundred
percent sure you can take everybody to the same question, "Do you want to be No. 1 in
the world?" I don't think they're going to say, "No, no, no, I don't need
this." Of course, they will say yes, I'm sure. If you say no, it's because you are
too nice guy.  
 
Q. This is the first time that you're the favorite on your side of the draw. How does
that feel?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: Nothing. I don't feel anything. There's how many, three more guys who
wants to be in the final. Martin is playing unbelievable tennis. Kiefer, he beat Norman. I
think is a huge win. Johansson, he beat Arthurs with probably the best serve on ATP Tour.
Everybody's playing good tennis if they're in quarterfinals. So is nothing. Just for
spectators, for the fans, for you guys. You can say that somebody's a favorite. But it's a
little bit different story in the locker room because we know each other, we know how we
are playing. Even the guy who is 100 in the world, he can be in the final. You just have
to make your job. Next round I play against Kiefer. I have to respect him. After this, if
I will beat him, we can talk about other two guys. Favorite, it's just a word, nothing
more. Nice word to me. Thank you very much.  
 
Q. You've played Kiefer before, you've beaten him. At what level will you have to play
to beat him? 
 
 MARAT SAFIN: Like I said before, he's in the forefront. He beat Magnus Norman. It's a
huge win. To beat Magnus, he's a big fighter. He beat him in four sets. It means he's
playing great tennis. But I can also play good tennis. The question is, who going to start
better? Who going to be less nervous since the beginning? Who going to make his game
first? Who going to build his game as soon as possible in the first two games? You have to
build your game already. You have to make your tactic. If you can make it, you can beat
him. If you don't make it, you have to fight, definitely. The problem is you have to build
your game very fast, don't let him play because he's on good conditions. If you let him
play, it's very difficult to come back. It's very tough. If you don't want to have a
headache on this game, you have to build very fast your game, make your tactic, hold your
serve and put pressure. That's it.  
 
Q. You keep telling us that you don't want to break any more racquets. Against Pozzi,
you were very close to breaking one. When did you break actually the last one?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: The last one? Against Guardiola. 
 
Q. Not a long time ago?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: No (laughter). 
 
Q. You've changed the last few days?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: I become a good player.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT