US OPEN
September 3, 2000
Marat Safin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Where were you in the third and fourth sets? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Definitely not on the court because, I mean, actually when I finished the second set, I was a little bit thinking how to hold my serve.  Just because I was a little bit tired, was too much  -- because I was winning actually.  I was thinking, "One more set.  I have to start the third set at least holding the serve and after I will get in the game back."  Just I didn't expect that it going to change so quickly because it was 6-1, 6-3 in half an hour or less.  I don't know, it was very fast.  Actually, in the third set, okay, I can do it 6-1, but now I'm going to concentrate a little bit more, move a little bit more on the court, try to hold my serve, approach a little bit on the return.  The same situation, 6-3.  I couldn't do anything because he start also to play better.  I gave him confidence in the third set, 6-1.  Of course, the guy, he's with a lot of experience.  I mean, he's a huge player.  He was Top 20.  He's 25 now, playing great tennis.  I gave him confidence in the third set, so he start to play much better.  I just stopped.  I didn't move from the court, so it was also 6-3.  After, I was a break down in the fifth.  It was 6-1, 6-3, 2-Love for him.  I went crazy.  How is possible?  Actually, I'm not playing so bad.  How it's possible that happening to me these things?  Actually, my serve didn't work so well the last three sets.  I mean, to play like this, I cannot  -- to play against these guys, you have to serve a little bit better, like first two sets, good serve.  Actually, it was quite easy for me on my serve.  The games was quite easy.  It also gives me confidence.  Finally, I mean, the break, it was the question of two, three points.  Who going to be more lucky?  Is a lottery.  The final set tiebreaker, it's what you want to expect.  Somebody going to risk, and other guy going to try to put the ball inside and try to hold the situation.  I was trying to not risk too much, but at least doing something new, something special, hit the ball sometimes because I cannot do it all the time.  Like normal human beings, I was afraid.  I had eyes bigger than my face.  Finally, I made it.  I'm happy.  I'm still nervous.  I'm still on the match.  I hope it will not happen to me again to let the guy to play his best game.  
 
Q.  Are you finished (laughter)?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  (Smiling.)  
 
Q.  In the second set of this match, you were consistently in the net, scoring a lot of points at the net.  The third set and fourth set, you got away from the net.  Seemed like you were reluctant to come forward.  Why? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I just explained.  I lost my concentration at all.  I wanted to hold my serve, try to start again, the third set.  I just lost my concentration.  I mean, how you can lose 6-1, 6-3, 2-Love?  I just lost.  I was out of the court.  I start to play another game.  My game was quite easy.  I mean, try to put pressure on the other guy, play inside the court, go to the net, do my game.  When I lost the concentration, I start to play a little bit far sometimes from the baseline, which is not my game.  Of course, the score, if you play another game, was 6-1, 6-3, 2-Love.  Where is that thinking?  "Now I can lose."  You start to play, try to play your game, to play the game like two sets ago.  I tried, at least.  It works sometimes; sometimes not.  It's already difficult.  Guy's playing unbelievable tennis.  It's difficult to play your best game without concentration.  So at the end it came finally. 
 
Q.  You said that you borrowed socks and shorts from Kiefer. 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah. 
 
Q.  Why did you need to do that?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Why I needed?  
 
Q.  Yes. 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I mean, I don't think that the people, they will like, if somebody will smell on the court, smell bad, no?  
 
Q.  You didn't have any extra?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I like, you know, take shower, to have new clothes, new stuff.  I just forgot my socks in the hotel.  I came with one pair of socks, which was for practice.  I came and I didn't have any socks left.  I asked Kiefer to give me.  No, first Jeff, he gave me.  After another rain delay, I ask Kiefer for the socks and for this one (indicating shirt).  
 
Q.  You two have the same sponsors?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Adidas, no?  Yes (smiling).  
 
Q.  Who was the first one you said?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Tarango. 
 
Q.  He gave you something, Tarango?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yes, socks (laughter).  Everybody sponsor me today. 
 
Q.  What did you do during the rain delays?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Nothing.  Trying to find the socks and the shorts.  Trying to find Kiefer, at least.  He was there somewhere.  I didn't want to take his bag, open his bag.  I send Alex to look for him to give me some socks and shorts.  Finally he gave me.  I was lucky. 
 
Q.  Do you feel like the last couple of matches of the US Open have been maybe a little harder than they should have been for you?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yes.  Twice five sets, four sets.  Already today was a tiebreaker.  What can I do?  The people, also they know how to play tennis.  Gianluca, Guardiola, Sebastien, they also players.  You cannot say why?  It also depends on me.  The other guys, they play tennis also.  They can play unbelievable, unbelievable game.  I need to play five sets to beat them, not three.  I think they also players, you have to respect them, no?  Agree?  
 
Q.  How much did the rain delays help or hurt you?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I cannot tell exactly.  I don't know.  I don't like the situation when you stay in the locker room and start to think, "Oh, my God, I'm down in the fifth set.  Tiebreaker is 5-4.  I don't know what to do with the ball."  It's a lot of headache because you don't know.  You start to think all the time.  Of course, you get nervous because you don't know what to do.  I don't like this situation.  Is better to be there, and you don't think about these things.  When you go to the court from the locker room, you're completely  -- you are scared.  I don't know, you think too much on the locker room.  I think you can become crazy like this.  It's going to rain again for two weeks. 
 
Q.  Could you see when he hit the last forehand that it was going to go out?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah.  I was like this on the floor (indicating praying), "Please, please, please, out, out, out."  I don't want even think what going to be if it's going to get in.  I don't want.  I don't want to know.  I don't want to think even about this match again, only for 20 more minutes with you guys. 
 
Q.  You said in Paris this year, you were just too tired from all the tournaments you played ahead of time.  Now are you like that?  Even those you played these tough matches, are you still fresh?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, but it was different because it was clay court.  You have to run twice more than here.  Here you can serve, easy points.  You have much more easy points than in Roland Garros.  You have to run to beat the opponent.  You have to serve, you have to run - run a lot.  Here, it's different game.  A lot of easy points.  But I'm fit.  I'm fit.  For this year, I'm fit for US Open, I hope so.  If I'm not going to die until tomorrow, I'm going okay. 
 
Q.  6-3, 6-1, 2-Love, were you tempted at all to destroy one of your racquets?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  No, because they were new.  They are too new.  I string them yesterday.  I didn't want to  -- I promise to myself that I will not do it today.  Actually, I was quite nice on the court, no (smiling).  
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT