MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 14, 2009
Marat Safin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. SAFIN/L. Hewitt
  6-4, 7-5 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Marat.   
  
  Q. You must be pleased you have beaten a guy who just won a title on clay. It's a good sign for you.   
 MARAT SAFIN: Yeah, well, but he arrived like two hours before the match. Not really hard thing to do. But he played well. Just a little bit out of -- took advantage that he is not used to these balls, I guess, and conditions were not really at his best. But that's why he missed a couple of easy shots in important moments, and I took advantage of it and won the match.  
 So nothing great. Nothing incredible to write about.   
  
  Q. Were you satisfied with the way you moved on the court?  
 MARAT SAFIN: Yeah, well, I spend a couple of days in Spain, five days it took me. Just enough time to get used to the courts. Was lucky to play on Tuesday, so I had the extra day so I could play a couple of sets here with some players. So helped a lot.   
  
  Q. Next is Nicolas Lapentti.   
 MARAT SAFIN: Well, tough opponent. We played only once nine years ago. Tough player. Got back to top 50, I guess. He knows how to play. Has a lot of experience. We'll see how it goes. I think he's playing pretty well. Had a tough match against Stepanek. We'll see.   
  
  Q. What is your overall feeling about how you're playing at the moment?  
 MARAT SAFIN: I take it day to day. I'm not really under a lot of pressure. I just try to enjoy as much as I can see I can enjoy it. Be on the court. Not an easy thing to do.   
  
  Q. You manage to have good sensations during the match?  
 MARAT SAFIN: Yeah, well, but it's a little bit tough to play when you know the guy's coming, just arriving, and you have to win. So it's a little bit of pressure there. But overall I served well, I moved around pretty well, so it helped a lot to be comfortable in the court and basically to build up the game running around. It's a little bit easier to play this way on the clay court.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT