US OPEN
August 30, 2000
Marat Safin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 THE MODERATOR: Questions. 
 
Q. Well, were you ready in the second set there? You hit some pretty wild stuff.
 
 MARAT SAFIN: So what you want me to say? That first of all, it's first round. I didn't
play like for ten days, since final of Indianapolis. So you come to also the big stadium,
a lot of people. So it's little bit tough to start again. To play a tournament in ten
days, I think it's too much. You practice, you practice, but you need to play some
matches. So the first one is really tough one because you have to start to move your legs;
you have to be concentrated. And today it was, this match, you have to find, even playing
not your best tennis, you have to try to have this attitude on the court, just trying. Try
to make the game a little bit easier. Try to put the ball inside the court. I don't have
to make some winners. Just trying to play my game. I mean it's for the next match, because
you start to prepare. You have to play better and better. So try to put the ball inside,
try to make something new, open angles, better play tactically. Sometimes, of course, you
lose your concentration, what happened in the second set. Because, of course, after ten
days, it's a little bit tough to be 100 percent on the court and actually especially
against this guy because he makes unbelievable winners. Sometimes he miss the balls, I
mean easy balls. So it's a little bit tough to be there because you don't know what's
gonna come on next shot. Also, I'm glad that I made it. I won the next two sets 6-4, 6-4.
Not playing my best tennis, but I was there. I tried to hold. He had some opportunities. I
just played. Even the percentage was very low, but I make 23, 24 aces, so not so bad. And
actually I try to put the ball inside the court, but sometimes I miss very easy shots. So
now I have -- I know where I have to work on the court now for the next match. 
 
Q. It looked like you had a little bit of trouble getting his serve back in the first
set. Was there a kind of spin on the ball or something?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: In the third? 
 
Q. In the first set.
 
 MARAT SAFIN: First? 
 
Q. Yes.
 
 MARAT SAFIN: It was a problem in all sets I think. But actually I didn't serve -- I
don't know -- just is difficult to serve. It's very, you know -- you mean return the
serve? 
 
Q. Returning the serve.
 
 MARAT SAFIN: Oh, returning. I have this problem already three weeks against Guga
especially, happened in the final of Indianapolis. I had so many opportunities on the
second serve, and I couldn't put the ball inside the court and try to make the point.
Because I missed all the time. So I have to focus a little bit more on the second serve,
return. You have to -- you don't have to put you under pressure, also. Because always when
you think, "Oh, second serve, I don't know how to return," also you don't have
to think this way. You just have to think what you have to do and try to make it. And one
day it will come. Because it's not a question of five minutes; it's a question of days.
And I hope if I will start this way just to say to myself, "Okay, let's put inside --
the ball inside the court, try to hit it because otherwise it's just pushing the ball, is
no chance. Because it's flying very far." So you have to hit it. But I cannot -- is
difficult to convince yourself, because you -- I was a little bit scared today returning
second serve, because I wanted to make a break and so I was a little bit under pressure. 
 
Q. Was it the --
 
 MARAT SAFIN: Was a mistake. 
 
Q. Was it the US Open? Did it kind of get to you a little bit?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: Of course. It's a big opportunity to -- not to win, but, yes, actually, I
want to win it. (Laughing.) But the question is first match, you want to pass through it.
If you pass first round, you gonna be dangerous. So I try to find my game, but I was a
little bit under pressure. Little bit too much. You don't have to put yourself so tight
because the game, it will come. It's a question of two, three days, nothing more. Two
matches, and everything gonna come. 
 
Q. Your first-serve percentage today was very low. Have you done any self-analysis of
why; are you letting the ball drop too much, overhitting it? What do you think?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: I think when I -- I rush. Sometimes I rush too much. You know, I come, I
serve, second serve, boom, boom, double-fault. You have to come, you have to stand, bam,
bam, bam, bounce the balls, enough to think about the movement and just think. But
sometimes I forget about this. But when I hear, "Yea, Marat," it's already
Love-40. Sometimes it's too late to remind yourself you have to throw the ball a little
bit higher, relax, take it easy. But sometimes I thought about this when it was 15-40,
Love-40, so I have to be a little bit clever. 
 
Q. There's a lot of talk about you and other players being the next generation of
tennis. Do you enjoy being part of that push, and do you like the attention, or is that
added pressure?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: Is not the pressure, it's very nice from the part of ATP Tour just to make
-- to promote us. Because I think we are the future of tennis. I think Ferrero, Guga,
Hewitt, a lot of guys there. We will be there in two, three years. Sampras and Andre, they
not gonna play forever, right? So somebody has to take their places. Everybody wants to do
it. Everybody from the new generation, New Balls Please, we want to be there. So it's very
nice that they took it, everything serious. I mean the new guys. It's very nice from their
part. But it's just a name. Now you have to show who you are, what you can do, and what
you want also for yourself. Because it's just a name, is nothing special. You not a
millionaire because your name is in New Balls Please, so you have to show that you are
these kind of guys who will be in two or three years No. 1 in the world. 
 
Q. When you become emotional on the court, does it help you or it hurts you? What do
you say to yourself?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: Sometimes it helps me a lot. Sometimes no. But I can't play -- I can't
play very quiet. I have to -- because otherwise it's coming like -- it's coming, you
missing, every time you say to yourself, "Don't worry, don't worry," but when
you miss the tenth ball in a row, I cannot handle it. 
 
Q. What do you say to yourself?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: That I'm a very nice guy. (Laughing.) If you do it one more time...
(Laughing.) No. I just want to, I don't know, I need to shout or I need to throw the
racquet. Otherwise, it's difficult to play because you get very nervous each time. So you
throw the racquet, you shout, you say to yourself, "Come on, let's play a little bit
tennis," then you start to -- you become relaxed, a little bit more relaxed, and you
can play tennis. Sometimes it works; sometimes no. But normally it works. 
 
Q. How many coaches out there who are looking to associate themselves with a rising
star have approached you trying to get you to employ them as your coach?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: I don't know. I don't -- I'm not interested for the moment in the coach
because -- 
 
Q. I know you're not interested in a coach. But how many are bothering you or on the --
 
 MARAT SAFIN: No, no. Because everybody is not coming to you and say, "If you want,
I'm here, just give me a call when you need me." I never heard this. I know the
circle of people, you know, who wants to work, who needs a job so I will make a choice.
Not them. But I know if I will come, I have to choose. They don't have to come. I mean I
know who is there, who is not there because I mean -- I don't know. They're not bothering
me at all. I'm very satisfied that the people, they don't want -- they're not putting
pressure, "Just work with me, I'll make you No. 1 in the world," or, "Come
with me, I'll make you the best." It's very nice. They don't come and they don't
bother me. It's good. 
 
Q. How many racquets do you bring with you to the court on any given match?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: Six. 
 
Q. Six. Is that more than most other players?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: I don't know. I think I have -- I think I'm the only guy who coming out
with six racquets. Normally people, they have more. 
 
Q. When you left the court today, were all six racquets intact?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: Unfortunately, no. (Laughter.) 
 
Q. How many were intact?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: Five. (Laughter.) I make the present for the people. 
 
Q. You needed Boston last week, didn't you?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: Yes. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT