TMS - CINCINNATI
August 9, 2000
Marat Safin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







THE MODERATOR: Questions for Marat. 

Q. Could you talk about last week, what you were able to accomplish last week. 

MARAT SAFIN: What do you mean exactly?

Q. Just the whole week. How does that rank now among your tennis accomplishments, to do
what you did last week?

MARAT SAFIN: Well, first of all, I was playing very bad before Toronto because I make
second round in Stuttgart and first round in Kitzbuhel. I play bad, so I went there to try
to get my confidence back. And of course it depends -- the ranking depends how you play.
If you play well, the numbers will come. The money, the points, everything will come. So I
think of course you want to, when you are No. 9 in the world, you want to be a little bit
more -- a little bit up. So you start to think about this also. But I think most important
is the confidence. If you have confidence, it's much more easy to get upstairs and
everything. Life is much easier in the court and out of the court. I think your confidence
is very, very important. Because it's numbers. It's only numbers. It depends how you feel
inside. 

Q. Do you know what was missing in those few weeks?

MARAT SAFIN: No, just very simple thing. I went for holidays because I played a lot of
tournaments. I played two months. I start in Barcelona, I won this tournament, another
one. I had some good results. I need to rest a little bit. Otherwise my head, I was going
crazy little bit with tennis, with the balls, with the racquet. The same people each time.
I was just -- I went to holidays. And I lose three kilos. For me, three kilos is too much.
Normally my weight is 85 kilos, so I came to the Tour back, in Stuttgart I was 88. I
couldn't move. For me, they players I played, I play against, they are playing very fast.
So they are not like the kind of guys that you can pass the balls and just keeping the
ball inside the court and not run. You get confidence with each set, you get your
confidence. Because you run, you are more concentrated. But when they guys, they hit each
ball 200 kilometers per hour, you don't understand what is happening because they don't
let you play. I mean it's difficult to get confidence because the confidence you can get
only in the practicing, but most of the time it's on the tournament. But with a draw --
with the draws, that's what I mean, there's lots of big names. Also in the ranking of
these guys, they are not very high. But the problem is their style of tennis, everything
is too fast. It's too fast and it's gone. They don't let you play. You can't get
confidence. You start to miss balls. You get nervous inside. So that's how -- that's why I
came to Toronto, to play tennis. I practiced, I played first two rounds, I mean it was
tough match. I get power, I could make some rallies on the baseline, so it gives me
confidence back. I won those two matches and after it's becoming much more easier. I get
my game back. I get my confidence and everything was perfect. In the final, I played good
tennis I think. This is just very simple. You just need to have good draws, try to keep
your tennis and try to keep your confidence always with you. That's it. I know you don't
have to worry about anything more. 

Q. Can you tell me, has Kafelnikov helped you on the Tour?

MARAT SAFIN: Everybody, they have different personalities. What he going to help you,
how to play tennis? I mean I know how I have to play, but of course I learn some things.
But is not from him, it's from everybody. You cannot come to the court and think,
"It's okay, I'm gonna beat this guy," because everybody is playing. If you play
better, better ranking, more guys, they want to beat you. If I say I don't care, okay. But
when you're five or six, whatever, Top 10, if they beat you, they get motivated. It's
tough. I beat Sampras, I beat Kafelnikov, so each time you have to play 100 percent so
that's the people -- they have to respect you. Otherwise --.

Q. That's not from him, that's from everybody?

MARAT SAFIN: Everybody.

Q. Are you particularly close with him?

MARAT SAFIN: No, because we have different life. He has kids, he has family. I'm just a
young guy, new. Big kid, yeah, and I just have some other interests. So it's little
difficult because I am little bit much younger. So the life, when he start, it was
different life than when I start. 

Q. For those of us who just watched, he's one of the more difficult players to
understand on the Tour. I was wondering, because you're a colleague, if you understand
what motivates him. He plays every week. He runs all over. He never stops. 

MARAT SAFIN: Okay. Is very simple I think. If you want to play not like him, I know
it's little bit exaggerate, yeah? Play 35 weeks. But you have to practice anyways, right?
You have to practice. It's better to come to the tournament, you have a good hotel, you
have a swimming pool, you have sauna, you have a gym, you have a good room, and I mean
normally the tournaments, they are nice places. Also, he's winning money. I mean if you
want, you can stay at home. It's more expensive. I mean doesn't matter if you have 20 or
2, you don't have any money. Expenses, you practice, you win money, and it's boring to
practice like this. I think when you spend one or two years on the Tour you start to
think, "What I need to do to stay at home just for practice? I can be here, I win
some matches, I get money, I get points." Is also good life. Is not so bad to come
for two hours to get what we get. I think it's better than be at home. Also you have a big
crowd with you. They come and enjoy tennis. You go to practice, you start to sweat,
nobody's watching you. It's a little boring. 

Q. Sochi is a beautiful city, though, right?

MARAT SAFIN: Yes. I was there.

Q. He lives in a great place. He doesn't ever get to go there?

MARAT SAFIN: No, he goes sometimes of course. You need to go home. But not for long
time. Because when you go for long times, you -- I mean it's difficult to come back. You
need two weeks to get your way back, to be in the right physical condition, technique and
all these small things that they help you. Holidays sometimes are dangerous. 

Q. Is it too much of a leap to say that's the Russian mindset? Or even because the
generation is different, something -- you came up under Communism. He came up in the
Soviet Union, the idea of you have to go out there every day and keep doing it. 

MARAT SAFIN: Yeah, I think it's because this question about the -- I mean it's
completely -- he already come not from Communism. He already become a normal person. If he
hurt, he have nothing to do. In Communism, you can ask Chesnokov. This is the generation
of Communism. They can you explain you many stories you say, "How is possible?"
Everything is possible. But Yevgeny and other guys, me, we come little bit later. So they
didn't bother us. It was little different. 

Q. Your legendary racquet-breaking, does it distract you when you get too emotional?

MARAT SAFIN: Of course sometimes it's not the best way to act on the court. But I
think, first of all, I was like this since I was -- since I start to play tennis. Second,
because you need this. You're gonna play tennis, you're not a machine. My mind, sometimes
I get scared. Sometimes I get -- I'm afraid on the court. I'm afraid with the ball. So I
need to do something, you know, to be little bit more relaxed. Because more you get
afraid, more minutes you're still playing and playing. You can't play any more tennis.
Some moments of the game you get scared, you get upset because you are missing easy balls.
So it lets you -- you become a little bit more relaxed. I mean the people, there are a lot
of people there in the stands, and I think they don't shout at me when I am breaking
racquet. I didn't destroy racquet, they start to shouting and everything is bad, I don't
like this crowd. But I just broke my racquet; that's it. It's not so dangerous. I didn't
kill anybody. But also you need this for -- I think it's -- many guys, they understand.
They also do this. But maybe not so much on the court, but not in a tournament, but in
practice. So many guys, they swing the racquet. It's only racquet; it's not -- it's just a
piece of graphite. That's it. 

Q. But you lead the Tour?

MARAT SAFIN: I lead the Tour, yeah. This year around 30. I can make some records.

Q. ...(Inaudible)?

MARAT SAFIN: Yeah, I was there. When I was 10, I went to Indianapolis to see this
tournament, actually. It was interchange of the guys Americans to the Russians. I went
there and for me, it was, you know, McEnroe, these guys. It was nice, big names. But I
didn't -- it was little bit different. I have even -- I have a picture with Boris Becker
when he was in '90. 

Q. '90?

MARAT SAFIN: Yeah, it was '90. If I had to come there, become like a player. I don't
know what I'm going to feel, but it's little bit...(Inaudible.)

Q. (Inaudible)?

MARAT SAFIN: Yeah. I was really -- feel really bad when I won there because I was too
far from home without family, but just living in also with the family. They don't
understand anything in English. But then they start to talk little bit. So it was -- but
it was good for the language, but not for my tennis because I didn't know how to take the
racquet. It was horrible. But at least I saw some people and make some good pictures. 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT