THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 20, 1999
Marat Safin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MIKI SINGH: Questions for Marat.  
 

Q.  What does playing somebody like Boris and beating him, even though he's no longer at the peek he was, what does that mean to you?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Today was a nice match because he's  -- I think it's my opinion, he's not ready to  -- he's not playing good, I don't think.  He wasn't ready today.  But he's still Boris Becker.  He was No.  1 in the world.  It doesn't matter how he's playing now, he was No.  1 in the world.  It's everything. 
 

Q.  How did you regard him eight or ten years ago when you were a little boy starting to play?  Was he a hero?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, I like him, watching in TV or somewhere.  It's nice, play against him.  I mean, it's very important to me that I can say to my kids that I was playing against Boris Becker.  It's nice.  Sorry for the people that loves him a lot. 
 

Q.  How much a better player do you think you are now than you were in the French Open last year?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I think more experience.  Now I know what I have to do.  Most important moments of the match I can think.  I can do a lot more, I can play better now because I feel better, with more confidence, I know everybody from the Tour.  I have more experience, just this. 
 

Q.  Although you're preparing for this tournament and the hopes to win a championship, what do you think about the area itself in South Florida?  Are you enjoying any recreational activities at all?  Do you like it here?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, I like it.  But I'm 19 years old, so (laughter). 
 

Q.  No marriage in your plans there?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  No.  I just playing my tournament.  I bought a computer three days ago, so I'm playing with computer.  I can go anywhere. 
 

Q.  Are you on the Internet all the time?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, but I like this place.  Miami is very nice.  I like it very much because I was here like seven times playing Orange Bowl, a lot of tournaments.  So I like it.  
 

Q.  You know this was Boris' last match in the United States.  Do you have any feelings about beating him so badly, especially in the second set?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Very badly, yeah (laughter).  
 

Q.  That's tennis, right?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Really it's not very nice, but I really sorry about that.  I was doing my job.  I was playing because I can't lose the concentration.  If not, Boris can make turn around the match.  I had to play all the points, so that's why the score in the second set was a little bit not so good. 
 

Q.  What do you sense was the difference?  5-5, double-faulted three times.  Seemed like the lights went out after that. 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I think it was the key there.  He make just three double-faults.  If it's going 6-All, I don't know what can happen in the tiebreak.  Maybe in the second set he play with more confidence, because he doesn't play a lot of tournaments, so he's losing confidence, confidence is going.  I still don't know what can happen the second set if he win the first one.  He can play unbelievable tennis. 
 

Q.  He did, you say?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  No, he can play unbelievable tennis.  If he win the first set, feeling better, maybe 7-6, 6-0, but for him, 7-5, 6-0. 
 

Q.  Did you watch him?  When Boris won Wimbledon the first time, you were four or five years old. 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I was in a kids garden. 
 

Q.  Were you interested in watching tennis when you were young?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I didn't see him too much on the TVs.  It was a little bit difficult for us, for Russia, to see Boris.  Sometimes in the big tournaments like Wimbledon and Roland Garros, of course I was watching him. 
 

Q.  That must give you a lot of confidence because you played so excellent, with the Davis Cup now against Germany. 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Really today was a little bit nervous because still it's Boris Becker.  I was playing good today. 
 

Q.  When did you first see him in real life, not on television?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Last year, Stuttgart.  Boris, Boris (laughter). 
 

Q.  Did you feel you had to show him some respect early in the match?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Is difficult to respect him.  Of course, you respect Boris.  In the match, you have to think how to beat him.  It's not the respect  -- it's not the same respect. 
 

Q.  Apprehensive of his reputation?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I don't know.  It's different.  I was thinking about to win this match.  Doesn't matter who is standing in there, Boris or Pete Sampras, who else.  Out of the court, of course I will respect him. 
 

Q.  Do you follow the history of tennis?  Do you know how many Grand Slams he's won, how many Wimbledons he's won?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Really, exactly, I don't know. 
 

Q.  You mention you're 19 years old.  How does it feel having a job like this, you're on top of your game, other people are going to work with a briefcase and suit and tie?  You're 19, having a great time playing tennis.  How do you enjoy your position at such a young age?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  It's true, I'm 19 years old.  I don't know what can happen next year.  Maybe I'm going back to play satellites.  19 years old is a good age.  I'm 26 in the world.  I don't know what can happen.  It's not for sure, a hundred percent, that I'll be a great player.  Maybe, maybe not.  Maybe I'm going back to satellites.  Maybe I retire in one year.  Maybe something can happen tomorrow.  Nobody knows.  I don't have a good contract with, I don't know, a good magazine like somebody here.  I have to be worry about this.  This is my job. 
 

Q.  Where are you going to start your clay court tournaments after Davis Cup?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Estoril, and everything, Barcelona, Monte-Carlo.  I have to play because I'm young.  Why not?  I will try this year. 
 

Q.  Are you going to play anything on grass between France and Wimbledon?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah.  I'll play Queen's and Rosmalen.  Not too many chances. 
 

Q.  In Spanish you said that you felt sorry because of the crowd, that you defeated Boris.  But you didn't show any mercy when you were 5-Love.  When Boris was in his prime time, he was the same.  Did you feel a little bit, "I am winning this set in such a way against Boris"? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  It's not nice, but if I give him one game  --. 
 

Q.  -- He can come back?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah.  Why not?  It's too dangerous.  Sorry about this.  It's too dangerous for me.  
 

Q.  You thought that?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, of course.  I know it's not nice, but this is tennis.  I have to think about me.  
 

Q.  When Boris was 19, he wouldn't have given you a game. 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  For sure.  This is for sure, a hundred percent. 
 

Q.  Are there public radio stations or TV stations where you're from?  Do you listen to public radio or television where you're from?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  What do you mean?  
 

Q.  Like National Public Radio or public television?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Talking about me?  
 

Q.  Yes. 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  For the moment, no.  I hope you will talk about me. 
 

Q.  We certainly will.  Tomorrow you play Mark Philippoussis.  Lost to him in Indian Wells.  How are you going to approach this match?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Last week he was teaching me how to play tennis.  This week I don't know.  I hope I'll play better.  I will try to do all my best.  I think he won Indian Wells last week.  He's playing good, big serve.  He's been playing good from the baseline and unbelievable volley.  It will be really tough.  I have to be clever in important moments of the match.  It will be just two or three points.  It will be all the match.  So I have to be with more confidence and be clear. 
 

Q.  Are there other sports you have a passion for as much as tennis?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Soccer.  I like hockey, but it's too dangerous, I think, my teeth (laughter).  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT