US OPEN
September 7, 1998
Marat Safin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. You went out there saying the other day that you didn't think you had a chance. Did
you think you had a chance after the first serve? 
 
 MARAT SAFIN: No, because normally he made two aces per game, so it's very difficult to
play. I didn't return so well. I make my serve, he makes first set break at 4-All. It was
a break, maybe it's a lucky break because it was one double-fault, because passing shot,
unbelievable passing shot. Maybe could be, I don't know, 7-5, 6-4, 6-2. But I think it's
enough for me. He shows me how it is playing No. 1 of the world. 
 
Q. Having played Pete Sampras, how much do you think your game needs to improve so you
can get on his level?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: I have to improve too many things to be like Pete. He played tennis
perfect, almost perfect. That's why he's No. 1 for seven years or eight years, because he
has unbelievable serve. You can see, he serve over 100, second and first serve. He made
today 18 aces. He put the ball all the time close to the line, so it's very difficult to
return. He put many pressure all the time because he's moving to the net all the time. He
played perfect, I think. 
 
Q. He said that he thought at some point here you'll have to start hitting your
groundstrokes less hard so that you'll keep the ball in play more.
 
 MARAT SAFIN: I think I had more chances on the baseline. When you make a point
normally, I won the point. I mean, I feel much better when we playing on baseline because
I was playing all the time on his backhand, and he missed some balls, because the forehand
is no problem. He just make a winner. If he's moving to the net, it's very difficult to
pass him. When he stay on the baseline, I had some chances to win the point. 
 
Q. Did the break in play affect you? You came out and he broke you I think the first
game.
 
 MARAT SAFIN: Yeah. 
 
Q. How much did that affect the outcome of the match?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: I have to fight to break him. But it was impossible today. I didn't make
just one break. Couldn't make it. 
 
Q. Did the weather delay bother you?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: No.  
 
Q. The two hours.
 
 MARAT SAFIN: No. It doesn't matter, because it was again just serve and volley. That
wasn't the rallies, so it doesn't matter. You just have to serve, volley, maybe two, three
groundstrokes, nothing more. So it doesn't matter the weather. 
 
Q. I know that you've had a tough summer after the French. But when was the last time
you felt helpless against a player? Pete really handled it. When was the last time you
felt that way? Obviously, you're a top player. It's been a long time, I would think.
 
 MARAT SAFIN: One more time. 
 
Q. I'm wondering when was the last time you felt on a court where no matter what you
did, this guy is just too good, too big for you?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: In the summer, I didn't feel like this. It wasn't this problem. Because
when I'm playing Sampras, he's playing like this. In the summer was I play against the
guys who are playing more or less my level, because this unbelievable level, is No. 1 in
the world. The other guys was maybe 50, 40. I mean, you can play against them. They are
very good players, but you can play against them. But I couldn't put one ball in, nothing.
I couldn't do anything because when I hit the ball, I didn't feel where it will go, maybe
two meters out. It was one bounce on my side. It was like this all the time. Then I feel I
couldn't do anything. 
 
Q. Have you been called for that many foot faults? Is that unusual for you? Does that
happen quite a bit?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: It's happening. But sometimes maybe it wasn't my fault. Maybe I think it's
the people. Sometimes -- I mean not in my match, in other matches it was, I think my coach
told me in one match I make on TV, was the second serve, set point, second serve, foot
fault. I mean, you can't do this. Second serve for set point, you call foot fault. I mean
is not correct, I think this. 
 
Q. How disappointing is this loss to you?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: For me? 
 
Q. Yes.
 
 MARAT SAFIN: For me it's okay. All my matches like this. Sometimes when you're losing,
they're calling foot fault, you get more nervous. But I have to improve this too, because
you can't make ten foot faults on one match. I have to work on it. It's not normal. 
 
Q. After you beat Dent, you were saying, "He shouldn't hit the ball so hard."
You said, "I used to be like that. I used to do the same thing." Pete said today
that you need to not hit the ball so hard. I'm wondering if you felt you were playing like
you used to, you were going for it a lot more than you usually do?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: No. I hit the ball like this all the time. It's normal, normal shot for
me. I didn't go for too much today. It's just my game. I didn't hit the ball so hard. 
 
Q. You didn't?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: Yeah. Because I know if I hit so hard, I can't play like this all the
match. This is my shots, normal shots. Dent, the other day, he was going for too much for
sure. 
 
Q. What was the most impressive thing about Pete for you? What impressed you the most
about him?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: Nothing. Just he's No. 1. He played perfect, perfect. Nothing more. 
 
Q. You see him on TV. You know he's No. 1. What's it like when you get on a court
against the No. 1 player, playing very sharp tennis? It must be more than you expected. No
or yes?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: I couldn't do anything today. 
 
Q. Was this a really good experience for you, though, to play him in the stadium court
here at the US Open?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: Not bad, but not so easy (laughter). 
 
Q. Does it inspire you, like maybe you can be someday as good as he is or better?
 
 MARAT SAFIN: Oh, very tough. I think I can't play this game. Who knows what can happen,
but I would like to play like this. I will try (laughter). But I'm not sure, because I
have to work a lot to be like him. Half of Pete Sampras, to be half of Pete Sampras, is
enough for me. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT