AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 15, 2008
Marat Safin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  How did you assess your match today?  Straight sets, but it looked a bit up and down.   
 MARAT SAFIN:  Well, it's a little bit tough to start the beginning of the season, especially when it's the first official match.  It's not exhibition or something like that.  So it's kind of difficult to play and be relaxed and play your best tennis.   
 So, you know, the first set was okay, but then I got a little bit tight.  The guy started to play well.  I think for the first match, it was a great one.   
  
  Q.  Any parts of your game you've got to work on to progress further?   
 MARAT SAFIN:  Just play more matches and it's gonna come up.  I'm playing well, moving well.  Knee doesn't hurt.  I don't have any injuries.  I think if I keep up this way, it's gonna be a good year.   
  
  Q.  What does it take for you to be happy about your game?   
 MARAT SAFIN:  Well, it's good to know that you can move around the court without any pain and you can move pretty well and you can play good tennis without any doubts on yourself.  So I think it's pretty good feeling.   
 But also, you know, you need some confidence, build up the confidence, because I didn't play any great tennis lately.   
 So for me to start the year this way, I think it's just to continue.   
  
  Q.  Going to need more confidence going into the harder part of the draw?   
 MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, I think I will need a little bit more, just a little bit more matches.  But it's going to come up this way anyway.  Big players like Baghdatis, Hewitt in the future.  But it's getting much better, for sure.  Second match.  I already played a tough one today.  It's going to work out well.   
  
  Q.  I heard you have been doing snowboarding back in Europe.  Did you find it fascinating?   
 MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, I think it's pretty cool.   
  
  Q.  Are you any good at it?   
 MARAT SAFIN:  I'm improving and improving, yeah.   
  
  Q.  Not too many falls?   
 MARAT SAFIN:  No.  I'm alive, so I think it was good.   
  
  Q.  What is your fear about the new surface?   
 MARAT SAFIN:  I don't fear anything.  I think it's great.  The balls are great.  Actually nothing to complain about.  Just maybe the color is too bright for me, but it's just my personal opinion.  I think otherwise, the speed of the ball is good enough to play good rallies and it suits to all the kind of players.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT