ATP CUP
January 5, 2020
Daniil Medvedev
Marat Safin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
 Q.  Daniil, congratulations on your performance and win. How do you think you played?  
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: I think I played great. To beat John with such score is really great achievement. I knew before the match I just have to try return as much returns in as possible. Worked out well.   
On my serve, I had only one tight game, missed some first serves. If not, I think the match was under my control. So really happy for me and really happy for the team that we got the important win.   
 Q.  Were you surprised how quickly you did break down his serve?  
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Yeah, of course. I was really expecting some maybe three tiebreakers or something like this. Played Opelka last year, was three tiebreaks. Played Raonic with tiebreaks.   
Really happy that I managed to kind of read his serve, return really well, and win without a tiebreak.   
 Q.  How much did you enjoy the doubles just then with Karen?  
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Was a tough one. They played good. Ram-Krajicek, I think for Norway to beat them is amazing achievement. I played them once before in ATP tournament. Top doubles players. They know what to do. We're only getting used to it.   
I think we played not that bad. We had some mistakes that cost us the match. But I think we will only improve.   
 Q.  Marat, are you enjoying the captaincy? Do you think you may get involved in tennis a little bit more moving forward or are you happy with your life?  
CAPTAIN SAFIN: Let's wait for the result here. I mean, I'm very happy with the guys, the way they are performing. Looks like I'm helping them as much as I can. I'm also getting used to the guys because they are very special ones. He's special. Karen is special.   
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: I'm very special (laughter).   
CAPTAIN SAFIN: Very special. And you have to be careful with the words (smiling).   
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: You have to be really careful (laughter).   
CAPTAIN SAFIN: But I'm really enjoying it. I'm having a great time actually sitting on the bench. I was talking to their coaches, analyzing the points, the way they play. It's quite interesting. It's surprisingly interesting.   
Maybe in the future, but never know.   
 Q.  Marat, are you tempted to tinker with your doubles combination looking forward ahead to the finals? Are you going to change your team at all?  
CAPTAIN SAFIN: No, I think for the moment I want them to play as many match as they can so they get used to it for this tournament, their future career, if they decide to play doubles at some point together.   
I know it's tough a little bit to get used to play doubles. You got to get out of comfort zone. For example, a few tips that I give them, they're not used to it.   
But if they get used to it, they will manage. Not today, maybe not tomorrow, but in a week or month they will get used to it and it will be much better.   
They're tall guys and they need to use their advantage. They serve well, return well. Just a few things to change.   
But it's okay to make mistakes. It's okay to lose matches. But at least try to do the right thing, and everything will come up.   
 Q.  Daniil, Casper Ruud on Tuesday morning, being talked about as a giant killer. You must be looking forward to playing Casper.  
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Yeah, actually didn't see the match today. I watched the whole match against Isner. Great two wins for him. A lot of points also he got from these wins.   
It's going to be fun to play him. Of course, I have some things in my mind already talking about tactics. But looking forward. Hopefully I can show good game. If I do it, I think I'll have my chances.   
 Q.  Playing John Isner tonight, very important to try to nullify his serve, which you did. You beat him in the ace count. That was key tonight, wasn't it?  
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Yeah, as I said, I managed to get something on his serve. I think, yeah, I mean, to get only four aces is amazing. Maybe he was serving not as good as he can.   
But still I managed to make a lot of returns in, a lot of passing shots. So really happy with my performance.   
 Q.  Looking ahead, it seems like your play is coming together in terms of Australian Open, which is what you're aiming for.  
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Yeah, of course. First matches of the season, never easy after pre-season. You kind of don't know how you're playing at this moment, are you able to beat these top guys. So already beat also two top-20 players. Really happy about it. I mean, a lot of confidence.   
Of course, I want to try to win many more matches in ATP Cup, and hopefully go like this to Australian Open.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT