INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA (MEN)
May 8, 2007
Marat Safin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  (From Italian) Can you talk about the match?  Just start with it was a little bit difficult and it got better.   
 MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah.  It was pretty difficult for me.  He started to play very well.  He was going for the shots very well.  Playing incredible shots on the line.  He put me under a lot of pressure, so I couldn't understand what was going on the first set.   
 And then the second set I was just -- for me to have a chance I had to play a little bit -- try to run for every ball, return all the serves, and try to make him play an extra ball.  That's what happened.   
 He missed a couple of forehand and just that's how I broke him.  The just the third set I had just to play with him and make sure that I put as many balls as I can to his backhand, forehand, doesn't really matter, to make him play.   
 He's a hard court player, so for him to come and play well on a clay court is very difficult because it's much slower and you have to play an extra ball.   
  
  Q.  (From Italian) What about the second turn against Davydenko, what do you expect?   
 MARAT SAFIN:  Well, it's a tough match because he's been a long time in the Top 10 already for two years in a row.  Played some great matches, great tournaments, a lot of confidence, fast guy, not many mistakes.  The only chance I have is that he didn't play well the past couple months, so I have a chance down there.   
 But I have be solid; I have to play my best game and make him move, go for the shots.  Make sure that I have my serve and stay with him.   
  
  Q.  We all know that when you play your best game you can beat anybody in the world.  How have you been feeling lately?  Do you feel you're coming into form?   
 MARAT SAFIN:  Well, just had difficult months.  A lot of the difficult matches that slipped away from just in front of me.  So it was difficult to play without the confidence, because every person makes you play and every guy wants to beat you.   
 They see you're not playing 100% and you're not feeling well on the courts, so that's a good chance for them to beat me and get through and get the confidence.  Every time I lose the confidence is not there.   
  
  Q.  When did you last have that?   
 MARAT SAFIN:  Well, just right after final in Vegas I played terrible, Miami, had chances there, and then I had also four matchpoints in Monte-Carlo in second round against Vliegen.   
 So kind of put me in difficult position because now, especially to play without confidence on clay it's very tough because you have to run and you have to run a lot and make sure you play all the balls.  It's tough, because the courts starting to be too small and the ball is very small.  They're not falling down on the court sometimes.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT