AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 17, 2007
Marat Safin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  The first four sets were a bit of a struggle.  The rain came and then you dominated.  What was the story of the match?   
 MARAT SAFIN:  Well, I kind of was playing pretty well, actually the first set and a half, and I was serving for -- I think I was serving for the second set, and then I just lost a little bit the rhythm of the match and I lost a little bit -- yeah, the rhythm.   
 And then I was struggling for about two sets, then I couldn't understand what to do and I couldn't really serve.  I was struggling on my serve, couldn't return his.  And whatever I was doing, he was making passing shots all the way around the court, running around, making great -- he was full of energy, great spirit, and I just couldn't find the key.   
 And then the rain came and changed everything because otherwise I don't think I would win if the rain doesn't come.  I was lost.   
  
  Q.  What did you say to yourself in the break when the rain was coming?   
 MARAT SAFIN:  No, just that the most important thing is just to go to the tiebreak, and the tiebreak is just a different story.  He's not really a big server, and I would have my opportunities, and that's what happened.  I served wide, perfect, and then it give me a little bit of confidence and then it went to a tiebreak and I knew already that I would have to push a little bit and everything is going to be all right.   
  
  Q.  How aware were you that the rain was coming?  Could you feel that the rain was coming?   
 MARAT SAFIN:  Well, it start drizzling a little bit before, and then it stopped.  Actually I couldn't see the ball because I asked for the lights because it started to get dark and I cannot really see very well.  It was tough conditions and I was trying to make some changes, just something to change because of the way everything was going.   
 And on the same -- down the highway, one-way ticket, and there was no chance for me to break him.  So I asked for the lights.  I asked them to stop the match because it was really a little bit slippery, so I just wanted to stop the match.   
 I wasn't an asshole, but (laughter) I used the opportunity.   
  
  Q.  You used it to your advantage?   
 MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, but it was reasonable.   
  
  Q.  You've beaten Andy Roddick in the semifinal in Moscow in September.  Do you think that might have an influence on your third-round match over here?   
 MARAT SAFIN:  Well, it's a different story.  It's not Davis Cup.  It's not clay court.  It's a hard court.  It's playing pretty well.  It's a new season.  If it's Roger Federer in exhibition Kooyong he is full of confidence.  He struggled a little bit in the first round and today he looked very solid, serving big.   
 But I am already 100 percent into the game and I had two tough matches, so it's kind of also an advantage for me because I already have been running for seven hours on the court and I'm already warmed up.   
  
  Q.  You had another experience with rain at this tournament and it worked out well for you, as well, again.  Tommy Haas?   
 MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah.  You remember this even (laughter).  Yeah, it's kind of surprising.  Against Tommy it came down all of a sudden.  I couldn't even expect.  And then all of a sudden it rained and they closed the roof and it was a completely different ballgame.  The same like today, just -- I was lucky it started to rain a little bit stronger, because before like I said it was drizzling a little bit and they didn't want to close the roof.   
 So this time I said, No chance.  I'm not going to play.  I'm not going to risk it, and I just took advantage.   
  
  Q.  What's the dynamic with you and Andy?  How does the match decide itself?  How does it play out?   
 MARAT SAFIN:  Well, he improved his game.  He changed a little bit.  He started to improve his backhand, and he's playing a little bit more solid.  Other than that, he's using more his serve and he's not running around the baseline.  He's trying to go forward and take position at the net.   
 So I don't know, it's very important for us, for both of us, I guess, who is going to be more aggressive at the beginning of the match and who will take the opportunities and who will choke first (laughter).   
 So it's kind of interesting match for both of us.  I think he's looking forward.  I think he was watching my match and studying me as well as I was studying him, and hopefully it's going to be interesting.  I'm pretty sure it's going to be a late match.  So let's see how it goes.   
  
  Q.  These two particular five-setters, how do you feel physically?   
 MARAT SAFIN:  Like I said, warmed up.  Well, I'm not really tired, but these kind of matches actually gives me opportunity.  Maybe it's a little bit too long, but otherwise I would need one or two matches like this to get the rhythm of the game.  Because I lost it a little bit and I was struggling in the first match with the rhythm, and I was all the time making -- I was in the wrong place all the time.  I couldn't see the ball right and I couldn't move, and I was a little bit too nervous, like too stiff.   
 And today was completely different.  I started to hit the ball pretty well.  We were playing around, volleys, serving, that sort of thing.  I think it gave me some kind of a confidence, but I'm not tired.   
  
  Q.  Can you compare the coaches, Volkov against Jimmy Connors?   
 MARAT SAFIN:  Well, Volkov beat him once and he retired after this match (laughter).  Both lefties, both talented players.  Of course Jimmy achieved much more.  But I think they have pretty similar view of tennis because of the things that Connors is doing with Andy is pretty similar that Alex wants to do with me.  So I guess it's all generation classics and same era of tennis.   
  
  Q.  So he wants you to move ahead all the time then, Alex?   
 MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, well, there's not much you can do from the baseline, because from the baseline everyone is playing pretty well.  There's a lot of guys that they can stay forever, so there is no fun for me also to run around with 1 meter 95 for running around to the baseline at the age of 27.  Looks a little bit ridiculous.   
 So to make my life a little bit easier and to use my height and my serve a little bit to put a little bit of pressure and to try to look for something at the net even though they are passing me on that, but at least be more aggressive and look for the life at the net, not at the baseline.   
  
  Q.  Had you seen Sela before, and were familiar with his game?  How familiar were you with his ability?   
 MARAT SAFIN:  Well, I knew he was a really good junior.  He warmed me up maybe four or five years ago in Roland Garros before a match, and afterwards, I never saw him.   
 All of a sudden he appeared here.  He qualified to beat Srichaphan.  He's a very decent player.  He's kind of similar to Rochus, but great talent, good legs.  He sees the ball pretty early and he knows what he's doing.  Pretty smart and he's using his advantages.   
  
  Q.  Will you be getting a chance to watch your sister play at all this week?   
 MARAT SAFIN:  Well, yeah, if she's playing in -- if they're going to show it on TV.  I'm looking forward.  But I didn't see her this morning.   
  
  Q.  How well do you think she'll go this year?   
 MARAT SAFIN:  Well, I know what kind of a draw she has.  She won the tournament the first week of the year.  She beat Hingis.  I saw that match, and I think she's doing pretty well with her coach.  She improved a lot.  She's top ten, and I'm pretty sure she's fit and she's ready to win, and I think she can go far.   
  
  Q.  How many five-setters do you think you have in your body at this tournament?   
 MARAT SAFIN:  As many as I need to win (laughter).  Getting better.   
  
  Q.  Seven?   
 MARAT SAFIN:  No problem.  If you get me to the final, I will run as many as you want.   
  
  Q.  I don't think you've ever lost a five-setter here.   
 MARAT SAFIN:  Well, let's knock on wood.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT