ATP CUP
January 4, 2020
Daniil Medvedev
Marat Safin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
KHACHANOV-MEDVEDEV/Bolelli-Lorenzi   
6-4, 6-3   
Team Russia - 3   
Team Italy - 0   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Daniil, how do you feel after two great wins tonight?  
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Perfect. I mean, I'm really happy for the team. That's what we wanted, 3-0. Great doubles match out there. As I said on the court, last year we didn't have one win with Karen, we lost three matches, were playing really bad.   
Today I think was a great match. I think even zero breakpoints for the other team. We were on top of them. Really great, great night tonight.   
 Q.  Bit of a slow start against Fabio earlier. What was behind that?  
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Yeah, I think it's both I started a little bit slow, first match of the year, it's never easy to start the season. He was playing I think little bit too good, which is okay. He has a right to do it.   
But then he made some errors, so I came back in the match, started playing a little bit more aggressive, started to using more angles, more tactics. After the match was on my side, I saw in the statistics that he had two breakpoints during all the match. He made both of them. I had 18, so I think the result is how it should be.   
 Q.  Now you come up against John Isner on Sunday. What do you have to do to prepare for that match?  
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Tomorrow I'm going to put one guy at the net to serve (laughter).   
No, I mean, you cannot prepare such matches. You just need to be ready, try to fight. Actually like Rudd, I saw all their match today. I think he had like two, three breakpoints during the match. Made one of them finally at the end.   
You just have to try to put some returns on the court, pass him, be solid on your serve.   
 Q.  Marat, do you see the team now cruising to Sydney?  
CAPTAIN SAFIN: Well, I think the first match of the year, especially with a team, against Italy, they're all fighters. They can be complicated opponents. It's very important to go through, no matter how.   
Today they were do the job, 3-0. Gives them a confidence. They got used to the court. The court is very slow, the ball is becoming big. They need to get used to it.   
I understand Karen, I understand Daniil, was a little bit tough at the beginning. Then they got used to it and it was already a different ballgame. I'm happy for them that they got used to it.   
It will be easier already against States, which going to have a complicated game against Isner. But is good for the confidence, that's for sure.   
 Q.  You have referred to your team as the Dream Team. You have great belief in Team Russia?  
CAPTAIN SAFIN: Yeah, you know I don't lie. When I lie, I'm saying the truth even (laughter).   
I honestly believe in them, the way they are, because they're close to each other, the players. They play games together, they play cards, they play all the time something, which is good, good vibe in the team. This is the key to success.   
They support each other. They joke around. It's a good atmosphere, which I'm happy about. I want to just be helpful in this atmosphere, not to destroy it. They are the stars of the team and they should be. That's why it's a Dream Team.   
 Q.  How much did you use the real-time stats on the iPod? Did that help in any way with service returns to work your way back into the matches?  
CAPTAIN SAFIN: I have to admit, I don't know how to use it (smiling). We are old-school.   
I think, well, there are coaches behind me. We can see straightaway. We are better than the statistics, I think. Old guys, you know.   
We communicate all the time, see what they should improve, how to do so. It's a group concilium. You have to be careful what to say to them because they can be very special moments. Don't want to piss them off. They're too tall for us, man, and younger (laughter).   
 Q.  How would you have reacted as a player to a similar situation with coaching and input from teammates?  
CAPTAIN SAFIN: Well, I have to admit, sometimes I was not good at all. A bit better now. I apologize to my coaches and people who have been around me that I could be sometimes not really good person.   
But, well, now I understand. Now I can see from a different point of view. I really see it what I could have done better. At least I learned. I learn on my mistakes.   
 Q.  Daniil, if you get a win over John on Sunday, how much confidence does that give you heading into the Australian Open to beat two top-20 players within three days?  
DANIIL MEDVEDEV: Yeah, it's going to be amazing. But that's why ATP Cup is so strong, that almost every time if you going to play No. 1, it's going to be a guy from top 20, sometimes from top 10.   
It's perfect to see where your game is. As you said, first set, okay, not happy about the first set, but happy about the win against Fabio who is always a tricky player. I mean, I'm really happy with my level.   
First, I'm going to need to win John, which we don't know yet. I'm going to try my best. Of course, the more wins you get, the more confident you come into Australian Open.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT