ATP MASTER SERIES MADRID
October 20, 2006
Marat Safin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  You fight back, but it was not enough.  How frustrating is it? 
 MARAT SAFIN:  Well, I'm actually more happy than frustrated because it's already my fifth week.  I've been playing some great matches, a lot of matches, a lot of three-set matches.  And of course out there I was completely flat. 
 And in order to defeat players like Nalbandian, you have to be 100 percent fit and strong.  Even though I had my chances, it didn't work my way.  The referee made a couple of mistakes, and I didn't have any challenges left.  I heard they were both in the last game they were in.  The thought was upsetting with me, but what can I do. 
 I'm pretty happy.  My situation was much worse months ago.  I was 104, now I am fighting into the Top-30. 

 Q.  That was the third match in a row your opponent has been serving for the match and he increased his level markedly toward the end, didn't he? 
 MARAT SAFIN:  Him? 

 Q.  Yes. 
 MARAT SAFIN:  He didn't serve many first serves.  But it's excuses, but still it's a lot has to do with paying attention to even though you can't just deal with the Hawk-Eye without paying attention and making over rules.  Even though the balls were in and I heard about it, and unfortunately it's sad, but I don't think it really matters right now.  But of course -- so what's the story here? 
 It's a little bit disappointing.  Nalbandian, he kept his mind on the court, and he was calm during the whole match.  He had his chances.  I had my chances.  He was a little bit luckier at the end.  That's how it is.  I cannot say that he raised his level.  He was just there.  I made a couple of mistakes and let it slip away. 

 Q.  You did seem to get your act together about halfway through the match.  And you seemed to improve a lot after that.  We thought that you mentally improved a lot through the course of that match? 
 MARAT SAFIN:  But also I don't have a lot of energy left, so I cannot just be shouting and discussing with everybody.  There were a lot of things really pissed me off today, but I tried to stay calm. 
 Of course it's tough.  But like I said, five weeks in a row is difficult to keep the energy.  So you need to save on anything you can and just keep yourself calm and whatever comes, comes. 

 Q.  I'm not updated with your coaching status these days.  We talked about the situation with your coach after the U.S. Open.  You've been with Sasha.  What is your coaching status these days? 
 MARAT SAFIN:  We decided to work with Sasha until the end of the year, and then I'll see was going to happen next year.  I don't know.  I definitely don't want to travel with 100 percent coach during all the weeks because it's a little bit tough.  Especially I'm not 19-20 years old who needs the babysitter and somebody to bring the rackets and the sandwiches.  It's somebody to come with me for 20 weeks to the most important tournaments and travel with the fitness coach and make it a little easier.  I think that will be the better situation for me. 

 Q.  How do you rate your level of game right now overall? 
 MARAT SAFIN:  It's much better.  Like I said I've been struggling all the year.  It looked like nothing was going my way.  I lost a lot of matches 7-6 in the last set.  And it was pretty disappointing.  But I was fighting.  My situation was even worse.  Before the U.S. Open.  I was 104 in the world, right now I'm fighting to get into the Top-30.  It's a pretty good situation. 
 I managed to have make all these points in the last four and a half months.  I hope I can be seeded in the Australian Open.  I'm just hoping for next year.  For this year I'm not expecting anything anymore. 

 Q.  Are you going to play Bercy? 
 MARAT SAFIN:  Of course. 

 Q.  But you need a wild card? 
 MARAT SAFIN:  No. 

 Q.  You're in? 
 MARAT SAFIN:  Protect. 

 Q.  Davis Cup Finals, are you going to play the Argentineans?  Do you think about it during the course of this match?  And will the surface be faster than this one? 
 MARAT SAFIN:  No.  It's going to be the same because Nalbandian, he beat me today doesn't mean anything.  It's still 6-2 for me.  I had so many chances, if I were fresher, I would have won in two sets without any problems. 
 I'd like to play against him.  He's a very comfortable player for me.  It's going to be as fast as here.  And I think we have pretty good chances.  Hopefully the other players will be in good shape, me and Davydenko.  I hope I can continue the same way for another two months so not to lose my game, even though that Europe is finishing in two weeks. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT