WESTERN AND SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 18, 2005
Marat Safin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.


Q.  After that tough first game, was that the key?  When you won that, you started on maybe a little bit of a roll.

MARAT SAFIN:  I don't know, but it was definitely a tough one.  It was really important.  Maybe if I would lose this first game, it would be much tougher. And, you know, early break actually, when I broke him the next game, it helped me a lot to gain the confidence and be a little bit aggressive and just go for some shots without being afraid.


Q.  What was the difference today?  Were you feeling more comfortable from the start?

MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, I was, you know -- I tried to be as aggressive as I can and try to get into the match very quickly.  Because with him, with the style of game that he has, it's really difficult to get used to it because he's playing really fast, not much spin on it, and he's moving really well and he makes you move.  He's the kind of player that you need to be really careful and really focus from the beginning of the match.


Q.  How comfortable are you feeling out on the court in general here since this is your first tournament?

MARAT SAFIN:  Well, it's getting better.  But still, you know, it's little bit too early to know, to say that I'm getting closer to my best shape. But the way I'm playing, you know, at least I'm fighting.  It's not like I'm playing the most unbelievable tennis; I'm struggling to win some shots.  But basically I'm hungry, I want to play, so it's probably what helps me a lot.  Even though I'm not playing well, I'm still there.


Q.  Everybody feels different on different days.  Does your motivation tend to increase the further you go in the tournament?

MARAT SAFIN:  Well, but also, you know, it's little bit more pressure because the closer you get to the final, the better you want to do.  I'm in the quarterfinal, so I want to get into semifinal.  There's a big difference, you know, being quarterfinals, being semifinals.  Because, yeah, it's up to quarterfinals doesn't really matter, but afterwards it's pressure, but also in same time you have more confidence.  Coming into the quarterfinals means that you are playing well and you beat some good players - as well as your opponent so...


Q.  Do you ever enjoy that pressure, or is it always a hard thing?

MARAT SAFIN:  Sometimes it's a little bit -- it's a little bit too difficult to deal with that.  But sometimes when you are playing well it doesn't really matter because you are really enjoying your tennis.  But in my position right now, the tennis, my knee is bothering me and I'm trying to find my game and try to work.  I have to spend here, I don't know, four, five hours in the locker room, try to get better with my knee, and I think about next match and hopefully my knee will not hurt and I want to win.  All these together, it's kind of tough. But also it's a great feeling to be in there, to be in the quarterfinals, knowing that if you gonna play well, you have a chance to reach something, something more.  And I think I have a chance.  Especially when you start to believe in yourself, it's a little bit easier.  Otherwise, it's a little bit too much pressure.


Q.  Are you getting more confidence as each match goes on?

MARAT SAFIN:  Well, I think so.  Today I looked much better than yesterday, especially first set.  Second set I was a little bit - today - a little bit nervous because it was I was playing too good, and I almost lost the second set. But definitely playing better and better each day because I am starting to get used to the rhythm of the match and to the speed.  Because not playing for a long time, the speed is a little bit too fast and it's difficult to react on his serves, fast forehands down the line, or backhand.  So you kind of slow.


Q.  What is it like playing with an injury?  Is it something you're thinking of all the time?  Does it hurt more when you serve?  What is it like for you?

MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, because all the time you thinking and you always checking and you always try to -- not to do strange movements.  And of course it's a little bit -- you cannot focus on one thing 100%, just on your game, because you think of the knee, you cannot jump, you can jump, you can run, you cannot run.  Just all the thing that makes you sometimes a little bit crazy.  Especially in the difficult moments when you need to be 100%, you are not, and that's why you get pissed at yourself - because it's there and you cannot take it because I'm thinking a little bit of the knee.


Q.  You obviously have the reputation as being one of the most passionate guys, sometimes explosive if you're having a long day.  How do you think the fans react to you as being the unpredictable guy?

MARAT SAFIN:  "Unpredictable" (smiling). Well, I have to admit that the crowd is really good to me everywhere I'm playing:  France, States, even London.  They're very good.  They respect me. Sometimes they go a little bit -- I had a problem in Barcelona this year.  For some reason, I didn't even throw the racquet once, I been nice to everybody, but for some reason they didn't like something about me, which is okay. But throughout my career I never had a problem with the public whatsoever, and they've been really, really nice.  And they enjoying, I guess, my game or the way I am, whatever how you call it.


Q.  Twenty or thirty years ago there were a lot of guys who would explode on the court, you know:  McEnroe, Connors, Nastase.  Do you have to be a little more careful nowadays because there's that chance if you throw a racquet or break something you might get a warning or something like that?

MARAT SAFIN:  I'm used to it.  I'm throwing racquets.  But I'm trying to hold -- sometimes I try to hold myself, but sometimes I cannot do it because I'm pissed and that's very difficult.  And if I don't play well, I need to do something - break the racquet, throw the ball out of the stadium - to have a relief so then I can continue with my game. But also the chair umpires have been good to me.  They never give me a hard time.  Had problems a couple of times.  But most of the time, you know, they respect that.  And, you know, I try not to do very crazy things, you know, not to insult anybody. But sometimes it's difficult to hold it, so if you hear it once on the TV, it happens.  It's like it happens in soccer, it happens in football, in hockey and every other sport because you give -- when you working on a -- with a pulse of 180 and you are losing, of course it's difficult to control a little bit yourself.  It's not like when you relax, you can think a little bit what to say, when to shut up.


Q.  Do you mind that you haven't played that much in the runup to the US Open?  Does it bother you?

MARAT SAFIN:  No.  I mean, with this tournament, Cincinnati, and the tournament in New Haven I hope I will have enough matches coming into the US Open.  I hope it will be enough.


Q.  Are you saying it's a little bit like Australia in that respect?

MARAT SAFIN:  I hope so.  I really do (smiling).


Q.  Have you already started thinking about the next match?  I think your next opponent will be either Moya or Ginepri?

MARAT SAFIN:  Not yet.  Give me some hours to rest (smiling).


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT