TELECOM MASTERS ITALIA
May 3, 2005
Marat Safin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 
 
 
Q.  Was that satisfying because you came back, or frustrating because it should have been two sets?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  No, in my position right now I think I have to be happy that I came up from this difficult situation.  I'm happy, actually, the way I played the second and third set, even though that I was not winning too many matches on clay. But for the first round here, losing the first set this way, I think it was pretty good. 
 

Q.  If tomorrow in the newspaper we make a headline, "Safin, Unpredictable as Usual," "Crazy as Usual," what would you say?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I'm not (smiling)... I'm used to it, so you will not surprise me with anything.  I heard during my career a lot of things, so it's not going to be anything new. 
 

Q.  What were the things you were saying changed in your life?  I heard you saying it on TV.
 
MARAT SAFIN:  A couple of things that I was -- they were bothering me during, you know -- that I couldn't play some matches, you know, like wouldn't concentrate.  Just I had to get rid of these kind of things.  Now I feel much lighter, I feel much happier on the court.  Actually, it's good changes. 
 

Q.  Anything specific?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  No, I can't -- no, it's just private life. 
 

Q.  Having waited four and a half years between the first Slam and the second, do you think that long wait has meant that it was difficult for you to concentrate in the couple of months after winning Australia?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  No.  I just, you know, I had my -- I made two finals of Australian Open, so basically I was one match away from winning a Grand Slam.  It's not like it took me a little bit longer, because I lost two finals.  Otherwise, if I would win all the finals, I would have four Grand Slams in my pocket.  So you completely -- you talk about completely different things. I got injured a couple of times.  So it's not like I was doing nothing and not, you know, dedicating myself enough.  I had my problems.  I couldn't find a person who would guide me as a coach, and I was struggling with some other things. But I had a decent career, and I have.  I still have a few years to go - four, five years.  I think that the way I'm playing right now, just for the past two years, I think it's pretty good.  If I will continue this way, I will have a chance to win another few Grand Slams.  Why not? 
 

Q.  When did you move to Monte-Carlo?  You left Moscow, Valencia.  I lost a little bit the track.  Where are you staying?  Where are you based now, and why?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I have no base.  I'm based where I'm playing.  Like I said, like every time I'm saying, we have such a long season so basically you cannot be based anywhere.  Last time I was home, it was one month and a half ago. 
 

Q.  "Home" is where?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Huh? 
 

Q.  Home is where?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Home, I have no home.  My home is in the hotel right now.  I don't know when I'm going to go back home, actually.  I might go after Hamburg, or I might go only after Wimbledon.  Then we have a Davis Cup and I have nowhere to stay. So basically every time, you know, I wake up in the morning and I finish a tournament and I have one week off, it's difficult to, you know -- I don't have anywhere to go.  Can you believe it, huh? 
 

Q.  I would invite you to my home if you don't have a home.
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Don't worry.  There are some other people that take care of me.  Don't worry. 
 

Q.  Can you say something about this tournament.  Would you like to win on red clay?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I never did well here.  I never played well.  I never could pass even the third round or even second round.  It's difficult to play here because some -- a few years the courts have been changing a little bit.  There was too much clay, then there was no clay, then there was sliding a lot, and every time like was so difficult to adjust myself to the courts.  Hopefully, I can do well this year. I like the tournament.  I like the city.  I enjoy it very much.  I would love to, you know, also to find my confidence and make a great week and whatever, if I would pass a couple of more rounds and I have a chance of doing something great here, as winning a tournament. 
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT