AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 25, 2005
Marat Safin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  
 
 
Q.  Were you happy when you heard they would close the roof? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah (inaudible) .  
 
Q.  You said on court that you and Dominik were actually talking about that, you were talking in the locker room about whether it would be closed?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, we were waiting actually because we knew the rule has been changed.  Because, yes, if the temperature reach to 35, they gonna close the roof.  So basically it was 12:30 and it was almost 35.  So basically I thought like it was supposed to be 35.  We were discussing.  I said they're gonna close the roof.  I said actually I saw that he really wanted to play with the heat.  But actually I think it's advantage for him.  Really honestly prefer to play against him in the indoors.  It's much, much better.  
 
Q.  What was his reaction when you found out? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Well, I suppose I didn't really ask him what you think about that, and how do you feel right now about this, that tournament director came and said that we're gonna play with the closed roof.  It looks like he wasn't really happy with that. 
 
Q.  Did you ever feel so confident coming into the quarterfinals at any Grand Slam?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I wasn't really so confident and so comfortable in the beginning of the match because I knew anyway if it's indoors, outdoors, it's really tough match, especially that he's playing really well.  He came into the quarterfinals beating some great players.  He's in good shape.  He's really fit.  He's working hard.  He's a tough guy to play, especially in quarterfinals where he has even more confidence and he has basically nothing to lose playing against me.  I'm little bit higher ranked and basically - supposedly - I'm the favorite, of the numbers.  It's also easier for him to compete against me this way.  I was really happy that I started the match this way, with a break and it was actually good.  
 
Q.  Do you feel this was the easiest match against him? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, in a way.  Yeah, because then after the first couple of games that I was a little bit tense, I found out myself, and I discovered how to play against him, what I have to do.  That is why it looks a little bit so easy.  But on the court is completely different.  You feel differently because the way he plays, he plays really fast, flat balls.  If you gonna rally and try to beat him, his game, it's really difficult.  So basically you have to change something, try to play little bit slice.  If you change, if you play smart against him, yeah, of course it was easy by the numbers. 
 
Q.  Davydenko is still in the game.  How do you feel the men here from Russia can do better than woman? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Once in a while, we can.  But I'm glad that Davydenko, that he's -- to be honest, no matter what, he is from my country, there is vanity, whatever you call it.  Like, for example, two people, couple of them on the same side of the draw, they get to the last rounds of the draw, so basically you know there is a competition.  But between us, there is no competition.  I'm happy that he's doing well, really honestly happy that finally we have a couple of players in Top 20.  It's basically it's a good thing also for Davis Cup.  We have pretty good team.  He's doing well.  He's working hard.  He deserve to be here.  He's a hard worker, so good luck.  He has a tough match and I think he can give a surprise. 
 
Q.  Do you feel this was the best you played so far in the tournament? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, probably.  
 
Q.  Is it a good sign for the semifinal?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Well, it's the second week and you better play well if you want to be somewhere around the final.  You have to play well and you have to really be comfortable and confident about your game, otherwise there is no chance.  Because the further you go, the more difficult matches you will have.  There is no more easy matches.  But other round is Federer or Agassi. 
 
Q.  Any preference?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  None (laughter).  Well, it's depends.  It depends.  
 
Q.  Will you be looking for anything out of that match tonight?  Will you be watching that? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I would watch it because I just -- I think it's gonna be great match.  But no matter who gonna win, is gonna be tough match for me as well as for them.  I just -- I will just watch, as I respect both of the players.  First of all, Andre achieved a lot.  He's a good player.  It's gonna be experience against the talent basically.  It's gonna be great match, I think.  We gonna see a good quality of tennis.  
 
Q.  Talking about great matches, that match you had with Roger in Houston was as good as they get.  Do you think that was one of the greatest matches in your life that you've lost?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Thank you, by the way (laughter).  No, no, no, from the first part of the question, thanks.  Let's put it this way.  The second set, yeah, I was really happy, I had my chances.  I really felt that if I can win the second set I would have a chance in the third one.  I was even break up.  I started to play well.  I really felt that first time in my -- in how many matches we play against each other, even the score 6-1, the first time I really felt I can beat him and there is a chance for me and I'm not so far away as I was seeing myself before, you know, from him.  I was really close.  In the tiebreaker I had so many chances.  It was -- I think it was great quality.  Really I played well.  I don't regret at all that I lost, but I prove myself also that I was really close. 
 
Q.  You can take positives out of that?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, of course.  I mean, of course.  You start to learn little bit more.  You start to look what he likes, what he doesn't like, what you can do against him.  I really felt that I can give him trouble.  Because last year, not many people, they could give him trouble.  Whenever he was playing well, there is nobody even had a chance.  So for me, it was great to see that I have a chance.  
 
Q.  Do you feel that you're peaking at the right time now and you're going to face a challenge against either Agassi or Roger in the semifinal and get to the final? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Well, what do you mean?  Reconstruct your question, can you please.  
 
Q.  I mean, do you have a preference of playing one or the other, and how good do you feel at this stage? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  It doesn't -- to be honest, it doesn't really matter.  Probably you can also -- only can expect that Andre will win this match in five sets and he will get tired.  He is not any more 25.  He is 35 or 34, he is.  I have a chance because he will be tired.  
 
Q.  Variables. 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, but there's also little bit of dreaming.  But it doesn't really matter who gonna win because if the person gets to the semifinal, it means that he's in great shape.  And if Andre got into the quarterfinals, beating good players, he must be in good shape.  So it doesn't really matter who gonna be on the other side of the net in the semifinals because they're coming with confidence and they will fight until the end because it's getting closer to the final.  And there is a huge chance to win the tournament for any of them.  
 
Q.  For a possible matchup with Roger, is it an advantage for you that you have his coach, his former coach?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  But coach cannot go on the court and play.  Just he can give you advice, advice that everybody knows.  But nobody can do anything against -- everybody knows basically how to play against Roger, but nobody can manage him to get any closer to that, even get into the three sets -- I mean five sets, you know, make him at least be even.  It's like 6-2, 6-2, 6-1 or 6-1, 6-2, 6-2.  It's like a little bit he's just toying with everybody.  So it basically doesn't really matter.  You have to be really hundred percent of yourself and try to be as confident as you can, just not to be scared of anything.  Also it's little bit easier for me because I'm not losing anything.  
 
Q.  How are you planning to spend the next two days before the semifinal?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Try to have some rest today.  I think I deserve it.  Take a good treatment, because it's second week.  You need to rest and be prepared mentally and physically  because even though that I didn't play so many tough matches, but every match takes a lot of energy, mentally and physically, because you're a little bit tense, because you are nervous, because sometimes you are not feeling really good.  So I need to recover, I need to be fit.  You need to take care of yourself.  So tomorrow I try to hit a little bit for half an hour, just to feel the ball, and then it's enough, I think. 
 
Q.  What about entertaining yourself a bit? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I'm going to watch a match today, Federer-Agassi.  I think it's enough.  It's enough.  
 
Q.  Just on today again, you mentioned on court hitting with Dominik.  You hit with him this week?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, we hit like three or four times.  I hit also with him in Perth.  I really like to play -- to practice with him because he gives you really good rhythm, goes really fast, he doesn't miss any balls, he works hard.  It's just he's good practice partner.  
 
Q.  Do you try and beat someone when you're hitting with him?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  No, it's not about beating him.  You little bit think about yourself to find the rhythm, find the timing.  It's all about it.  Doesn't matter -- many guys, they beating you 6-1 in the practice, 6-0.  Then you go on the court, it's completely other way around.  For example, the juniors, any junior can beat you in the practice 6-1, 6-Love.  Then it's like when you go on the court, it's completely other way around.  But in practice, everybody can play well.  That's why I'm saying you need to feel the ball.  Practice is all about feeling the ball, timing, groove, feel comfortable with the shots, we'll work maybe on something, little bit something is missing.  
 
Q.  Could you give some comment on the trend in sports that male athletes pay more and more attention to the way they look.  Do you find that happening in tennis? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I don't think it's an issue.  What's an issue?  What's the question?  Can you repeat it?  
 
Q.  I mean, like what was your comment about a male sports star paying more and more attention to the way they look. 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Like who?  
 
Q.  I mean like, okay, like in soccer, David Beckham, for example. 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, but he is -- first of all, he is great athlete.  He is the best in the -- probably he is the best in the world.  So if you don't play really good and if you're not a good player, doesn't matter how you look.  
 
Q.  I mean, do you think that happened in tennis, like is happening in tennis, too?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  No, it doesn't.  It doesn't.  I don't think so.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT