OLYMPIC TENNIS TOURNAMENT
August 17, 2004
Marat Safin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions. 


Q.  Where does this leave your year, starting so well, and it's gone off in the last couple of months? 

MARAT SAFIN:  Why?  I'm still No. 30 in the world.  I started the year 89.  I'm sorry.  Is that so bad? 

Q.  No, no, it's good.  But having started so well, since Wimbledon, were you not hoping to have done a bit more than you have? 

MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, but you cannot expect a lot, you know.  I had a couple of tough matches.  I mean, against Kiefer, I lost 7-6 in the third.  He was in semifinals.  Make quarterfinals in Cincinnati.  I lost to Hewitt.  But I could have won or been in the finals also.  I'm missing a little bit of winning these tough matches is the thing. 

Q.  Was the Olympics any motivation for you because it doesn't fit into the pattern of a normal tournament?

MARAT SAFIN:  Yes, is a lot of points in the game.  It's very important.

Q.  You've had up and down feelings, as first you were reluctant, then happy to be here.  Suddenly losing in the second round u a bit of an emotional rollercoaster?

MARAT SAFIN:  No.  I mean, he played -- I didn't like to play against these kind of people, and I never beat him.  I played him once, and he beat me quite easy.  So I knew it was a tough match.  I had my opportunities in the first set, I couldn't take them.  He started to play well.  I had my chances.  I think I didn't take them.  Could be 7-6, 6-3, other way around.  But if you don't take your chances, you don't deserve to win. 

Q.  Have you enjoyed the Olympic experience, not just playing tennis, but just being here with other athletes?

MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, it's great.  It's my second time already, so I know more or less what is it.  It's great.  I'm enjoying it. 

Q.  Now preparation for the US Open. 

MARAT SAFIN:  Yes.  Couple of days off and then I'm going to New York the week before, just get used to the courts, the balls.  Then we'll see what's going to happen in New York.  It's definitely much better conditions than here because, first of all, it's different kind of balls.  For me it was a little bit difficult to play with these kind of balls here.  I know for everybody is the same, but for me personally it was a little bit too tough.  So I'm expecting a lot from the US Open, which is five-set matches that I really like.  We'll see what's going on.  The year is still on, there's plenty of tournaments to play.  There's like two Super 9's, two Masters Series, and a Grand Slam. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT