OLYMPIC TENNIS TOURNAMENT
August 15, 2004
Marat Safin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Can we have the first question for Marat.  
 
 
Q.  You had a very, very strong opening set.  What happened in the second set?  Karol's game didn't improve quite that much.  Was there a problem with the wind?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, it's a little bit of both.  Tough conditions.  We have very bad balls, I have to admit and I have to be honest.  It's not balls that we used to play.  I don't know who choose to play with these balls, but it definitely made a lot of people suffering.  And especially for his game, you know, it's a little bit windy, quite windy, and strange balls for him, for his game doesn't suit.  So first set it took him a little bit -- took him like all the first set to get used to it.  But then he start to play better and better, felt little bit more confident on the court.  
 
Q.  Were you surprised with the few fans that were around the stadium, at least the number?  Do you think that perhaps -- I know you made some comments a month ago, a little different than what you made a day or so ago.  Do you think the people might just be watching other Olympic sports instead of tennis?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, but even this, I didn't see a lot of people watching other sports.  If you check on the TV, there are not that many people that are really watching.  
 
Q.  Is that surprising to you?  It's an Olympic Games?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  It's not surprising to me.  But I don't know what is the reason.  But I definitely know there were some rumors that not many people are coming here.  Even that I saw the rumors that the hotels, they are reducing 50% of discountt they're making on the rooms.  So I'm not surprised. 
 
Q.  Do you actually notice it?  Some players say they're so focused they don't see anything.  Do you? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Of course, we have to focus a little bit on our job, but we don't care about those kind of things.  But still, we have eyes and we see that not many people are interested in the sports.  It's not like I'm catching you by surprise, no?  You've noticed that also, right?  Obviously.  
 
Q.  You were a little bit reluctant to come to begin with.  Last night you were saying that you were actually happy to be here.  What made you come if you were a bit reluctant? 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Okay, that's the thing.  It's a little bit -- it is a little bit different, Olympic Games, like for the tennis players than for other sport, for the other athletes because we have a little bit different schedule.  We have 42 tournaments, 42 weeks we can play tennis, you know.  For other athletes, they prepare for the World Championships, European Championships and Olympic Games.  So basically they have three biggest event, and Olympic Games is every four years.  For us we have four Grand Slam events a year.  So that's what I'm saying, it's a little bit different.  You cannot just, you know, what is really important, what is not?  Of course, Olympic Games is important because you're playing for the country and it's a little bit prestigious, and it gives you a good image.  So that's the thing.  I don't think it's not really nobody cares.  Of course, everybody cares; otherwise, no people would come.  And especially that we have points also for winning this event.  So basically if you play well, you can get lot of points, which is good for the race, to get to the end of the year to the Masters. 
 
Q.  So what made you decide to come?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I said the reasons.  
 
Q.  What would you think about having the Olympic Games as a team event?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Like Davis Cup?  I don't know.  Maybe it's a good idea.  But still like this, maybe there is more chances to win more medals for the countries.  You know, there is singles, doubles.  Otherwise, it would be by team, is only one medal.  
 
Q.  Or a combination of team and individual. 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Could be also a possibility.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT