NHL ENTRY DRAFT
June 22, 2002
Ryan Whitney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  You said yesterday that Pittsburgh had not given you any indication that you would be their guy; when did you find out?

RYAN WHITNEY:   I didn't even really know until the pick happened right there.  I interviewed with them on Thursday, so I knew they were interested some what but I didn't know until a few minutes ago. 

Q.  Do you plan to go back to university next season?

RYAN WHITNEY:   Right now I plan on going back.  I'll sit down with the team after the draft and my parents and my advisor and see what's best, but I see myself going back to BU. 

Q.  Did you have any inspirations growing up, any players?

RYAN WHITNEY:   I was always a big fan of Chris Pronger and Rob Blake growing up.  I grew up, family and friends always had a lot to do with my success. 

Q.  Do you figure you're ready to make the team next year?

RYAN WHITNEY:   I don't know.  I don't really know.  I'm thinking about going back to school, that's where I think I'm going, so I'm not sure if I'll be ready.

Q.  Can you talk about taking the college route, instead of going to juniors, just your decision?

RYAN WHITNEY:   I grew up always being a fan of BU.  I always wanted to play there.  I knew when I started getting recruited that I was going to definitely play college hockey and that it was going to definitely be at BU.

Q.  What's your major? 

RYAN WHITNEY:   I'm undecided. 

Q.  Is there anything, what would change your mind about going back to university and pursuing the NHL? 

RYAN WHITNEY:   Right now I'm going back to BU.  I don't think I'm ready yet but I'm not sure.  I enjoy school a lot there, I have a lot of friends there and my family, so it's a pretty easy decision.

Q.  Do you plan to go to training camp? 

RYAN WHITNEY:   Yeah, I don't know what I can do because of NCAA rules and whatnot.  If I can go there, I will, pay my own way or something like that.

Q.  What do you think about sharing the ice with Mario Lemieux?

RYAN WHITNEY:   It's pretty unbelievable, just to get a chance to meet him, never mind being on the same ice with him.  It's pretty special. 

Q.  What do you know about the Penguins and what were your initial thoughts when you heard your name at No.  5?

RYAN WHITNEY:   Growing up, the Penguins were always a really good team.  I know they struggled last year, but watching Lemieux and some of the other players, it was exciting.  When I heard my name picked, I was just thrilled.  It was a team that I would love to play for. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT