DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 29, 2005
Kenneth Ferrie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Well done today. It has developed into quite a big year for you?

KENNETH FERRIE:  Yes it has been. It got kick-started qualifying for The Open at Sunningdale and winning at The K Club the week after. I have found some form since then -- I think all it was was confidence. Having a win at The K Club has given me the confidence that I can play well every week.
Q. Are you enjoying the extra attention that comes with playing well?

KENNETH FERRIE:   Yes I am. It is always nice doing the interviews and appearing on TV. When you are asked to do these things it means you are playing well, so it's nice to do them. It's nice that people want to talk to you and want the autographs.
Q. A good round today, but is there a feeling it could have been better?

KENNETH FERRIE:   I missed a short putt at the par five third hole, missed a 6-footer at the fifth for birdie and missed a 6- to 8-footer at the last for birdie. It was a good solid round - I was happy with the round - but I feel as though I left a couple coming in. But all in all in the first round of a tournament it is nice to get off to a good start and put yourself in a position to go forward rather than having to scrap around to make cuts and worrying about that situation.
Q. You are at Carnoustie tomorrow, which could prove a bit tougher?

KENNETH FERRIE:   I like Carnoustie -- it's a tough course but a very fair golf course. You get what you deserve. If you go off line you hit it into bunkers and if you hit it down the middle of the fairway you get rewarded for good shots. I am looking forward to it.

We had a good day today -- Raph and l played really lovely as well and I played with Jonathan Edwards. Jonathan played really well. Obviously when we started off he didn't come into any holes because it's hard for him to come in when I'm making birdies. He had a birdie net eagle at six and par net birdie at the last. He helped by four shots. He has held up his end today and I have to make sure I keep going tomorrow or I will be letting him down.
Q. As this year has been a breakthrough for you, are you already setting targets for 2006 -- particularly with it being Ryder Cup year?

KENNETH FERRIE:   It's too early. The Seve Trophy and the HSBC World Match Play were by-products of winning at The K Club. If I win this week, come and ask me on Sunday if I am interested in the Ryder Cup and I will say that it is my main goal now because I have a head-start on a lot of other guys. At the minute there are 300 guys starting basically from scratch. Until I give myself a realistic chance I am not going to focus on it.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT