TEXAS CHRISTIAN UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 18, 2017
Austin Schlottmann
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TCU-27, TTU-3   
 Q.  You were the closest to Shawn all day.  Talk about your impressions.  
AUSTIN SCHLOTTMANN: I thought he was pretty calm for being in there as a freshman, first start.  He ran the ball well, threw some really good balls, and just really did his job.  That's what we needed him to do.  Let everybody -- got calls in, got everybody in the right place, so it was good.   
 Q.  When you were first and 25 on that first drive and he breaks off that 41-yard run, what were you thinking?  
AUSTIN SCHLOTTMANN: I was like, wow, this is awesome.  It's cool to see him get in there and just have success right away.  We knew he could run the ball and he really did it well today.   
 Q.  How much did you guys talk all week about establishing a strong front game to help him out?  
AUSTIN SCHLOTTMANN: It was pretty important for us to be able to run the ball, just to kind of take some pressure off of him.  Just having him -- him having the ability to run the ball, too, helps.  So we knew that we would be doing that this week, we would be running the ball a lot.   
 Q.  Was there a plan that you would try to get him some confidence?  
AUSTIN SCHLOTTMANN: Yeah.  After that long run it seemed like he was pretty cool.  Even from the start of the game, he was pretty calm, so.   
 Q.  You guys are up 10-3, Shawn unfortunately has that fumble, defense comes up big.  How much momentum did that give you guys at that point on offense to go back out there.  You guys went back out there and had a long-scoring drive.  
AUSTIN SCHLOTTMANN: Defense played awesome today.  They held them to three points, which is pretty hard to do here.  So that was really good.  Just the turnover kind of hurt us a little bit, putting them in good field position.  But the defense did their job, we went out there and just started running the ball.  That was -- I don't think we threw the ball on that drive, maybe once or twice, but most of it was running the ball.  So we just had to establish the line of scrimmage and get positive yards.   
 Q.  Do you wish every game could go like this?  Run the ball as many times as y'all did?  
AUSTIN SCHLOTTMANN: Yeah, it's fun.  But the passing game has to be part of some games.  Some games you can play like this, so.   
 Q.  What kind of questions did Shawn have for you during the course of the game?  
AUSTIN SCHLOTTMANN: He said I was snapping the ball pretty fast today.  He told me to slow that down, that was about it.  I mean coach had him, had everything for him on the sidelines, had advice and telling him what to do.  So he was just making sure the snaps were good and catchable, so.   
 Q.  He looked pretty calm out there.  He didn't have the deer-in-the-headlight look that you would see from true freshmen.  Did you notice that, that he was pretty calm and collected out there?  
AUSTIN SCHLOTTMANN: Yeah, just from the first play, the first drive, he was just out there, just making his calls, getting everybody lined up.  Throughout practice this week, we knew he was going to be able to come in and the game wouldn't really pressure him at all, or however you want to say it.  But, yeah, he's a good leader.  I think he's got a lot of room for improvement and I'm excited for what he did today and fun to watch him keep improving.   
 Q.  When you guys learned you might be without Kenny this week what was the reaction?  
AUSTIN SCHLOTTMANN: That's always tough having -- not having your starting quarterback come to the game, but we knew Shawn has the ability to make plays at any time, just like Kenny does.  So we kind of focused on being able to run the ball, take some pressure off Kenny and just give them some ability to throw the ball down field.  I think it worked pretty well today.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT