AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2009
Gilles Simon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 G. SIMON/P. Andujar
  6-4, 6-1, 6-1 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. What gave you the most pleasure out of that win today? What pleased you the most?   
 GILLES SIMON: Well, I just think I played a good match. It was really nice to play on the Hisense Court. A new name (smiling). So I just have a nice sensation not right in the beginning of the match because it's never easy to play. But then I felt better game after game. Finally I was really enjoying myself in the third set.   
  
  Q. You handled the hot conditions very well.   
 GILLES SIMON: Well, it's never easy. I prefer when it's 20 degrees.   
 But I know that I can play, yeah, a very long time even with the heat. That's not a problem for me. But, as I said, it's not easy to play.   
  
  Q. After having such a good season last year, what did you do during the off-season to try to build on that?  
 GILLES SIMON: Well, I just tried to be a little bit more aggressive. I've not always managed to do it on the court. Even today when I had to play from my baseline in the first set I was just playing three meters behind my baseline. But finally in the second and third set, I was playing really better and I was very offensive.   
 Even during the last set, I didn't check the stats yet, but I think, yeah, I did so many winners in the third set. That was good.   
  
  Q. Seems like you're playing now the way you did the second half of last year. Were you surprised at your sudden jump in results?  
 GILLES SIMON: No, that's where I wanted to be. That's not because I want to be there that I am able to do this.   
 But I don't have to be surprised. If I'm surprised, it's not a good sign for the next season.   
  
  Q. So many French guys are doing well at the moment. Who are the players you get along with and are close with?  
 GILLES SIMON: Well, I'm very close with Jo Tsonga and Gaël Monfils. Even Richard a little bit less, but we are still good friends. We are four players who have the same age. It's very good for us to be playing good at the same time because I hope for the Davis Cup we are gonna do something good.   
  
  Q. Can you talk a little bit about their different personalities, what makes them unique?  
 GILLES SIMON: Not easy. We all got different style. Jo is very confident always. That's his strength. Gaël is so amazing (laughter). Richard, it's difficult for him because people are waiting for him to do something unbelievable every day, so it's hard for him. But he's really a nice guy. I hope he's going to play very good this season.   
  
  Q. What about you?  
 GILLES SIMON: Me, I don't know. It's you to tell me.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT