TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 14, 2008
Gilles Simon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  G. SIMON/R. Stepanek  
6-1, 6-4  
   
  Q. The obvious question - can you answer it two ways - first of all, if make the semifinals, how will you feel?   
 GILLES SIMON: Well, it's not easy to say right now, because I was watching the match. So it's really not easy to see someone playing and cheering for him.   
 But I hope I have the chance to play the semifinal, because I won two match. That will be bad luck if I'm not reaching semifinal and winning two match in the round robin.   
 But, like I said yesterday, if I had win against Murray, I didn't have to wait tonight. So I won two match. Maybe it's going to be not enough, but we'll see the result after.   
  
  Q. So just if you do play the semifinal, I think you would play Djokovic. If you have to play Djokovic, just talk about how you match up against him.   
 GILLES SIMON: Well, he was playing very good. I saw the three match he played, and it won't be easy. When you play someone who's No. 3 in the world, it's never easy. So I expect a tough match if I have the chance to play.   
 Like I say, it's difficult for me to think about the match because maybe I'm going to be in the plane.   
  
  Q. Last press conference you just say it's pretty hard to play Stepanek because you lose to him last time in French Open. How come you manage so well today to win?   
 GILLES SIMON: Well, I just remember first that the last time it was very hard, so I expected from the beginning a very tough match. I was prepared to play a difficult match. I was a little bit -- I was more focused than the last time. I think I did a great job. At the beginning of the match, I broke him in the first game. This time I was not one set down, break down. I was just leading in every set. It was much more easier for me.   
  
  Q. So this is the first experience in Shanghai and in the Masters Cup. What are you going to say about this trip?   
 GILLES SIMON: Yeah, whatever happen now, it was a very good experience for me, because after this tournament my best ranking. At least I will be No. 7. So it's amazing because I didn't think that I would be at this ranking at the end of the year.   
 I won two match for my first Masters Cup, and I think it's good for me because I felt the pressure when I came here. It was not easy. I was No. 9. I just played because Nadal pulled out before the tournament. So I really wanted to show that I could win some matches. I was here to win, to reach semifinal, not just to play some matches. I think I did a great job.   
  
  Q. After the conference, will you go and watch the game between Roger and Andy or just go back to the hotel?   
 GILLES SIMON: No, I go back to the hotel. I was waiting in my locker room, and it was really difficult (smiling). To see the match won't change anything anyway. So it start to be late now, and I think I just have to come back to the hotel to rest in case of Murray is going to win.   
  
  Q. I would like to ask you, other than the games and here, did you enjoy any other, for example, things like eating and going and doing shopping or anything other than the competitions in Shanghai?   
 GILLES SIMON: Well, no, just the organization was perfect. It was the first time I had so many thing just for me. So, yes, it was pretty nice for us.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT