TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 10, 2008
Gilles Simon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  G. SIMON/R. Federer
4-6, 6-4, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. I'm wondering what was your reaction when you found out that you qualified for the event and then that you were playing Federer in the first round? How did you prepare?
 GILLES SIMON: Well, I was just happy because it was a good thing for me to play here in Shanghai. I knew it was a good experience, too. Finally, yeah, I played against Roger the first match. 
 I just wanted to play my chance, and I just wanted to give everything on the court. 

 Q. Not many people are able to beat Roger Federer. You've beaten him both teams you played him. Talk about how that feels and also what you think you have in your game to beat him, what bothers him. 
 GILLES SIMON: Well, I hope I have the game to defeat so many players. It's always hard to win against Federer. I know that I have to play my best tennis. But in another way, it's easier for me because I have just, yeah, I have no question in any head. I just want to give everything, every point to my may best tennis to win.
 It's easier to play in that way. 

 Q. I would like to ask you in the eighth game in the decider, you were leading, and you were trailing behind and then you came back. What were you thinking about? In the third set, the eighth game of the third set. 
 GILLES SIMON: Yes, I was really nervous at this time because I had so many opportunities to break him the game before. I lost I think eight points in a row. So it wasn't the best moment of the match for me. 
 But finally I played a good game with a good passing shot and then an ace, then a wonderful lob, too. So I was just happy when I was leading 4-3 in the third because I knew I had just a hard time just before, and then I had the chance to win one more time. 

 Q. Could you please compare this match with the Toronto one. Roger said his service is not that powerful because he was conscious with his back. Do you feel so?
 GILLES SIMON: Yes, his serve was a little bit slower than unusual. But, like I said, he's not -- he has a good serve, but his serve is not that fast. But he has all the serve. He serve everywhere in the first serve and the second serve, so it's really hard to read. It's never easy to break him because every time it's an important point he always has his first serve. 
 So it was a little bit easier for me, but not that much. 

 Q. As the one who qualifies for the Masters Cup at the last second, what's your reaction and emotions to make one of the biggest upsets in the history of Masters Cup, to beat Roger, who won here like four times? 
 GILLES SIMON: Well, like I said, I was first really happy to come here because I was just No. 9. So I knew that I had the opportunity to play. And after when I get into the court, it's to win the match. So I kept that in my mind from the beginning of the match. I felt that I have a chance to win in the second set. I just wanted to do the maximum for that. 
 I defeated him once in Toronto, so it was easier to finish the match. I had no complex when I served in the last game. And, for sure, it was one more time one of the best victory of my career. 

 Q. You beat Roger Federer once. People might call it an accident or surprise. Now it's the second time. What would you call it? 
 GILLES SIMON: A second accident (laughter). 

 Q. I would like to ask you, I notice that during the game a few times you were trying to smash your racquet but you controlled yourself. What were you thinking about? You thought actually you need to be more patient with Roger Federer, considering that he's been suffering from his back pain? 
 GILLES SIMON: Well, so many questions (smiling). 
 I was, yes, a little bit nervous today because I had really nice sensation when I was practicing this morning, when I was practicing, yeah, yesterday. So I felt that I have a good chance to win. But finally in the first set I didn't play the game I wanted. I was not that much confident on the court because it's never easy to play against Federer. 
 But then, like I said, in the second set I really felt that I have a chance to win, but I didn't manage yet to play my best tennis. So, yeah, I was a little bit nervous when I lost some important points not playing my best tennis. 

 Q. When the game was going to the third set, were you confident that you will win the game? If the match is a bit longer, is it easy for you? 
 GILLES SIMON: Yes, it's always easier when it's a long match because you lose all your complex and you just play your game when you start to be tired. When it's one hour and a half that you are on the court, you just play your best tennis because you're just thinking about the game. So for sure it helps me. 
 But I didn't wait the beginning of the third set to think that I have a chance to win. Because if you come on the court and if think that you have no chance to win, you just lose in two sets. So I really start to believe in me and my chance to win at the beginning of the match. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT