WIMBLEDON
July 8, 2015
Gilles Simon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. FEDERER/G. Simon
  6‑3, 7‑5, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   What can you take from that to carry forward to the Davis Cup, as it's on grass?
GILLES SIMON:   Well, I was in a great shape in the five‑sets match.   I was playing a good tennis also. 
I played also in Queen's.   The grass is a bit different, so I think I have everything I need to be ready for it. 

Q.   Is this like the longest grass court season you had?
GILLES SIMON:   Yes, of course.   We had one week more.   I used the first week to practice.   I was in Stuttgart already. 
Yeah, it starts to be long.   But I have been successful.   So I had worst trip than this one.

Q.   Had you hoped for more presumably from today's match? 
GILLES SIMON:   Well, I have less occasion today than in Shanghai.   I think Roger played a great match, especially on the serve.   I had a lot of pressure because of that.   From the first point in the match, he served perfect.   He never gave me any occasion. 
The only break I did was really good.   I just played a perfect game to break him.   But I really felt it would be hard to break him. 
Well, on my serve he was returning.   We were playing a lot of points on baseline.   So the general feeling is it was a matter of time before I will lose my serve.   It was hard to have a grip on him. 
That's why I feel it was a bit tight today.   He was a bit too relaxed.

Q.   This has been by far your best grass court season.   What were your thoughts on the surface before you started this year?
GILLES SIMON:   Well, I always felt good on grass.   Game‑wise I had no problems with the courts.   It was just out of physically.   I have a lot of trouble with my knees.   You know that the grass courts are not very healthy for the knees. 
So I made a different schedule than the last years.   That's why I was in Stuttgart to prepare the grass court season.   I did some mistake in the past, and I just tried to improve. 
Now that I'm 100% physically, I'm playing better. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT