ROLAND GARROS
May 31, 2015
Gilles Simon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  S. WAWRINKA/G. Simon6-1, 6-4, 6-2THE MODERATOR: Questions in French, please.Q. What's your analysis of what happened today?  Was he too strong, or did you not manage to put in place your tactics or were you in a bad day?GILLES SIMON: Oh, a bit of everything.  He was much better than I was.  The conditions were quite heavy, and it gave him the opportunity of playing his game.  He had a very heavy ball.  He managed to push me behind the baseline in two shots when it was very difficult for me to get him to move. So he was playing very well, very relaxed.  A lot of power, he put a lot of power in each of these shots.Q. It was a much tighter score last time in five sets.  Did the conditions have an impact this time?GILLES SIMON: And other things. But he played very well today.  He was hitting very hard right from the beginning.  He had a very good serve, as well. When I play him, it's helpful to me when the court is faster because I can move him from right to left, but I could not put any stress on him today.  He knew that he would have to move a couple of times, and then he would be able to shoot this very fast and deep ball that was pushing me back behind the baseline.  So that was not very helpful. But, you know, he played very well.  I never had any opportunity.  It's just this one time that I could have taken the lead, and he won the game and he was back at 5-4.  And then he developed his tennis.  When he does that, he is impressive.Q. You said he is impressive.  Do you think this is the Wawrinka we knew when he won his Grand Slam?GILLES SIMON: That Wawrinka is always there.  He played such a high level of tennis that day.  Sometimes he can do that again. When you play him, you have the impression that it's always going to happen.  When his balls are in, they are in for a reason.  When they're out, they're out for a reason. And playing me in these conditions, that was perfectly adapted to his style, to his game, and I didn't manage to put enough stress on him. When he is confident, as he was today, well, you've seen it.  He is very good.  He managed beat Novak when no one else could do that. But when he freezes, it's for a reason.  It's not just in his head.  It's because his opponent is doing things which are difficult for him.  Another opponent could have made him feel nervous, but I didn't manage to do that today.Q. So what are the lessons you learned from this tournament?  You came in slightly injured, not at the top of your shape.GILLES SIMON: Well, I said it already: You're never happy when you lose.  The last Roland Garros I lost in five sets and I was very disappointed. This match reminds me of when I lost to Soderling.  He was shooting missiles to me, and all I could say was, Congratulations.  You were much better than me. Still, I'm disappointed.  So I have this feeling of disappointment.Q. Quite a general question.  You're part of a very good generation of players in France.  If none of you manages to get a Grand Slam title, would it be kind of a lack of achievement?GILLES SIMON: Well, first of all, I think of myself.  I don't think of the group. I'd be very happy if any of the other guys managed to win a title in a Grand Slam.  When any player wins a Grand Slam, I'm happy for him. But I'd like this to happen to me.  So if I can't do that, I'd be disappointed.  Because, you know, when a player grows up, that's part of our dreams. Now, the question is probably a question you want to ask not to me but to the crowd, the French crowd, people who support us. We try and do our best.  If he won 6-1, 6-4, 6-2, I put everything out on the court, but I didn't have enough today.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT