ROLEX PARIS MASTERS
October 29, 2019
Gilles Simon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








D. SHAPOVALOV/G. Simon
2-2 [Ret.]
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French, please.
Q. We saw that you stopped suddenly. What are you suffering from?
GILLES SIMON: Well, "suddenly" is the word. I felt bad twice. It should be my adductors, but I don't know yet. I will make tests tomorrow.
I've never had this pain till now. So when you feel two strains in a row like this, you have to decide quickly whether you will endure such a pain for a longer period of time or stop altogether.
I felt bad twice in a row. Because he was back on my forehand, and I felt, Oh, my God, it's not going well at all. I'm not going well at all. That's it.
Q. What did the physiotherapist say? Because we saw you discuss at length.
GILLES SIMON: He said, Oh, you're risking a lot if you continue. He advised me to stop at once. And he didn't feel it. I didn't feel it.
Because you never know. You might think, okay, it's painful, but we can still do it. But if I continued and had an important injury, then it would be a detrimental decision. You never know. You would like to walk, to try out, but you can't go progressively. You have to serve. You have to work on your footing, and you can actually destroy everything.
I didn't have the right mindset in this tournament. I felt that this week was a week too much. It was not a surprise. And when you feel it as early in a match, with a pain that you know nothing about where you could actually have anything, the discussion is wrapped up.
Q. You felt that you had pain already before that match? Could you have balanced out?
GILLES SIMON: Well, it's the end of the season. It's a tournament that I like to play because there's a great crowd.
But I have a lot of matches under my belt. And having five tournaments back to back with Tokyo, Shanghai, and all this, without making great achievements but not underperforming, I managed to arrive in the quarterfinals at Antwerp.
Monday, Tuesday, it's back to back. It's a matter of movements and energy. When I was in Antwerp, I could see that I was moving fast. And here, when I arrived, I could see that I felt bad. The warmup required a lot of time, and yet I had a long period of warmup. I was ready to go when I arrived on the court, but the last days were not as smooth on many levels, physically speaking. And I said, Oh, it's the Paris Masters. I have to give my utmost, but I couldn't.
Q. What about the end of the season? What are you going to do?
GILLES SIMON: It will depend on tomorrow, on the MRI. I don't know what I have yet. So we'll see.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT