BNP PARIBAS MASTERS
October 28, 2014
Gilles Simon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







F. VERDASCO/G. Simon
  6‑3, 3‑6, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please. 

Q.   I just have a quick question about Davis Cup.   Do you think it's at all strange that the Davis Cup final is four men who live in Switzerland playing against Switzerland?
GILLES SIMON:   I expected the question, but not from you (laughter).
No.   I don't think it's strange. 

Q.   Why do you all live there?   Is it the obvious tax reason?
GILLES SIMON:   Yes. 
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French.

Q.   A question about Davis Cup.   Do you have a strong memory about this competition?   We wish you will be playing in Lille in a few days. 
GILLES SIMON:   I remember the match played by Arnaud Boetsch against Kulti.   I don't remember how old I was.   I remember those three match points.
This is a memory I keep in my mind.

Q.   Would it be a highlight of your career to play in this final?   It's a team event, and tennis is usually an individual game. 
GILLES SIMON:   Yes, it's a goal for many tennis players, and I'm part of them.   We had an opportunity in 2010, but we didn't convert it.   So we will try to be better this time. 

Q.   There were ups and downs in that match against Verdasco today.   How did you feel?   Was it because of his game, or you were not playing your best tennis?
GILLES SIMON:   It's always the same.   I don't control anything.   It's a pity, because physically I felt I was fit.   I had energy and I could have played a lot. 
But I was not controlling the ball the way I wanted to.   I'm not happy with the way I played.   It was not flowing, and I can't have a control over it.   I tried my best, and still there are really long moments when I'm not playing well. 
And I'm extremely disappointed because I like this tournament and I felt I could do well here, and I'm extremely disappointed. 

Q.   When you say you can't control the ball, why is it so?
GILLES SIMON:   It's because of the balls, like every year.   This ball I have good statistics with this year again, and every time we play with those balls, it's the same for me.

Q.   When is the last time those balls bothered you?
GILLES SIMON:   Indian Wells, Toronto, Cincinnati, Shenzhen, Valencia, and Bercy.   Seven tournaments. 

Q.   (Question off microphone.)
GILLES SIMON:   There's no surprise.   It's always the same with those balls. 

Q.   But other players can manage.   Why does it happen to you?
GILLES SIMON:   I think it's tougher for me because I have a way of playing that might be different from the others.   I mean, each player has his own approach.   I'm a player who doesn't like to miss.   I want to find a good rhythm where I know I'm not going to make a mistake, and I will be able to control the point.
So when I play well, the rhythm is high and I can play fast like I did in Shanghai.   I was hitting hard, I was making almost no mistakes, I was playing the ball wherever I wanted.
But here balls can go out by seven meters.   So like in the end of that first set I make many mistakes.   I try my best, but it is extremely difficult for me to control that ball.
I don't want to play a backhand anymore.   It's really strange.   But I was not that far. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT