COUPE ROGERS
August 6, 2013
Gilles Simon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. DAVYDENKO/G. Simon
  2‑6, 6‑1, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French.   
   
 Q.   Big difference in the scores of the first set and the last two sets.   Was it due to your own performance?  
GILLES SIMON:   No, it was rather due to his.   He had an extremely bad start, making countless errors.   I knew he was not in good shape in this moment, so I tried to take advantage of it.   
In the second set I should have started a bit better.   Instead I gave him two games that helped him get back into the match.   After that he was able to make me run all over the court.   
   
 Q.   After the pertussis, were you able to have rest and are you fit again?  
GILLES SIMON:   No, I'm not fit.   This is my job, trying to do the best I can for the time being.   There's nothing to dream about.   I'm still far from a normal level.   
   
 Q.   So where do you have pain right now?   You have your ribs and the cough.   Anything else?  
GILLES SIMON:   Well, I have two broken ribs, but I'm not coughing anymore.   During a whole month, I wasn't able to do anything at all.   I couldn't even run.   With a broken rib you cannot play.   You can't do any type of exercises.   
Now that I'm playing again, everything hurts.   They say if you stop a month, it will take another month having pain everywhere.   Now it's been two months, I'm starting to feel a bit better.   I might be able to get ready for Cincinnati.   I am only able to serve since yesterday.   
   
 Q.   How were your spirits during the period where you couldn't do anything?  
GILLES SIMON:   In the beginning I was thinking that maybe in the end of the season it would help me to feel more fresh, but when you have to stop like this, what you want to do is train a little bit so you will be ready when the pain goes away and starting training again will not be as painful.   
In this particular case, I couldn't do anything at all.   Now it hurts everywhere.   
   
 Q.   Is it all coming back quickly?   It's been two weeks since you started playing again.   
GILLES SIMON:   More or less.   It's coming back slowly.   I started again just before Washington.   It was because of the rules about the points.   If you don't play those tournaments, you get zero points.   I thought I would try.   But it's been tough.   
Now it's getting better little by little.   I will finally have a week where I can practice every day.   I made a decision to come here because first of all it is mandatory, and second because I wanted to be ready as soon as I felt better.   
   
 Q.   What hurts for the time being?  
GILLES SIMON:   Well, my ribs still hurt.   But the time has come when the pain should subside.   So the goal is to be ready when the pain will go away.   I believe I wasted time in Washington because it was too early.   Now at least here I'm able to practice, which is good.   
   
 Q.   What are you going to do after this tournament?  
GILLES SIMON:   Before the tournament I thought if I didn't feel good here I would go back home.   But it's getting better.   If I have a chance to be ready for Cincinnati, I will take it and go.   
   
 Q.   Can you tell us a bit more about the match today.   
GILLES SIMON:   In the end I was playing a bit better, but I believe he knew that I wasn't up to it today.   In the beginning, this is part of his game, he was trying to hit hard and all over the place, and he was making errors.   But very soon he realized I didn't have much to offer, so he felt he wasn't in danger and started playing it down a little bit and putting the ball into the court.   I couldn't do much about it.   
   
 Q.   How did you break your ribs?  
GILLES SIMON:   In Eastbourne and in Wimbledon, after that I really felt pain and I knew it was not normal.   I tried to rest.   I was coughing so much that I was losing my breath and I was vomiting.   I felt that deep pain in my ribs.   
In Wimbledon I got an x‑ray, but the doctor said they couldn't see anything.   After that it was still hurting.   I had a scan.   They said they couldn't see anything either.   But I knew that something was hurting and it wasn't normal.   
Finally I had an ultrasound, and there we could see it.   I had two broken ribs.   So pertussis is supposed to make you stop playing tennis for one to three months, and a broken rib is six months, more or less.   But now things are getting better and finally I can play a little bit.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT