APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 9, 2013
Gilles Simon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Gilles, as you well know, has had to withdraw from his match today.   There will be a lucky loser.   He will explain to you his knee problems and whatever else questions you might want to ask.   
   
 Q.   What's the problem with the knee?  
GILLES SIMON:   Well, I made a bad move yesterday during the double, during the supertiebreak.   It's not the first time it's happening to me.   
I knew it would be complicated to me, but I did a lot of treatments yesterday and this morning.   I feel better, but not good enough to go on the court and defend my chances.   
   
 Q.   It's been an ongoing problem?  
GILLES SIMON:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   For months?   Years?   
GILLES SIMON:   Yes.   No, it's years.   Yeah, I still try to find some solutions to this because it happens too many time.   Unfortunately, it's not easy.  
The shape of my back is not as it should be, and then I don't know if it's why, that's the problem.   But more or less every two months I have one problem there, and unfortunately it was yesterday.   
   
 Q.   Do you have time to get better before Melbourne?  
GILLES SIMON:   Yeah, I have time if I don't have any complication.   Every time it's really difficult for three or four days, so it will be all right.   
But it's of course not the best preparation.   I had the same problem on the same day last year.   I was not playing the tournament, but then it was complicated in Melbourne because I couldn't practice as I wanted to.   
When you have to play the five sets there you have to be ready, so this is just my job now to make it as good as possible until the first match there.   
   
 Q.   Is it nerves, bone, or muscle?  
GILLES SIMON:   I think it's more the bones.   Nerve/bones, but not muscles.  
   
 Q.   We see a lot players not playing tournaments the week before the Australian Open these days.   Is that something you will have to consider?  
GILLES SIMON:   As I told you, I didn't play last year the tournament and I had exactly the same when I was practicing.   So I think most of the time I don't play the week before the slams.   That's what I did for the last season, maybe last three or four season.  
But this time I wanted to play a bit more match.   I tried to be a bit more relax on the court, so I wanted to play some match to get used to that attitude on the court before the slam.   
Unfortunately, I will not be able to work on this here.   
   
 Q.   What would you say to Sydney fans who were excited to see you play here this year?  
GILLES SIMON:   Well, I am sad of course.   I couldn't defend the title last year.   I was about to play against Jarko who was the defending champion, so it would be I think a great match.   Well, I'm just sad that I couldn't make it to the court, first.  
I'm sure I will have one more occasion to play here at least.  
   
 Q.   Seems to be a Frenchman's curse.   Gasquet and Tsonga had to pull out, and now you.  
GILLES SIMON:   You had one very lucky today.   Have to play four points only to make it to the quarters.   Maybe it's compensation.  
Well, yeah, sometimes it's difficult.   As you said, the week before the slams also maybe players don't want to take any risk to be ready for the tournament, which is normal.   
It's sad so far for this one, because I think Sydney is a very nice tournament and deserve to have a very nice draw.  
One more time, we just try the maximum to be ready.   If we feel like it's too difficult to go on the court or if it's going to get worse‑‑ I mean, for me today there is no point to go on the court and lose 6‑2, 6‑2 playing 50%.   Of course I'm first very sad that I can't play today, but have to deal with it.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT