BNP PARIBAS MASTERS
November 3, 2012
Gilles Simon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. JANOWICZ/G. Simon
  6‑4, 7‑5 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French, please.   
   
 Q.   Today it was much more difficult to play your own game, mainly returning his serve.   The score was quite tight.   It's not a bad score.   You succeeded in doing something.   
GILLES SIMON:   Well, that's nice.   
   
 Q.   So can you tell us about what you felt on the court?   
GILLES SIMON:   Well, there was no surprise about this.   I played a player who's totally confident right now.   We feel he is playing and having fun while he's playing.   He's hitting as hard as he can each time.   
This is what I saw from his game on the previous matches, and I was not surprised with how he played against me today.   He is very difficult to return.   Normally I'm supposed to be one of the best returners on the tour, and I was not able to do that today.   
It was going very fast on every serve.   When I served I was not good enough, though.   That will be my regret for that match.   Against this type of player, if you want to have them having doubts and hesitating, you need to serve perfectly well.   You need to show them they will not have opportunities.   
I was not able to do that.   I was not able to dominate the game, and he took some risks and he succeeded.   
   
 Q.   Can you tell us how you felt against such a player?   What kind of tactics could you use?   Did you think he would start missing?  
GILLES SIMON:   He's not the first player that's tall and serving hard that I've played.   In the beginning it's quite annoying, and after you get used to it.   So I knew what to expect to do.   
As I said, I was not able to do what I wanted to do on my own serves.   Sometimes this kind of match depends on a bit of luck going on the right side at the right moment.   You know you're not going to win 6‑2, 6‑3 without effort.   
So more than his serve, because everybody talks about his serve, it was not that that made me lose.   His serve didn't bother me that much.  
   
 Q.   Did you have problems finding the right tactics, or do you believe he was unpredictable?   
GILLES SIMON:   Well, yes, I can play those kind of players, but I need to play my serve games a bit better.   I need to be able to hit right and left and take the advantage as soon as I can in the rally, and I was not able to do that.   
I saw he was very aggressive with his returns and using a lot of dropshots, so what I have to do tactically is very simple:   Just need to prevent him from doing that.   I was not able to do that today.   
   
 Q.   Janowicz is 21 years old.   What's your impression of him?   Do you believe he's going to be a future top 10?   I believe his game is pretty similar to Safin's game.   
GILLES SIMON:   I think he can play very well.   Anyway, that is what he showed this week.   When he's confident, he's able to beat very good players.   Even better than that since he beat Andy Murray.   
So we feel he's very confident, but of course it's difficult to make a general judgment on just one tournament.   I would like to see him play outdoors with wind and sun and everything.   I would like to see if he can be precise and play all his shots on the line as he does indoors.   
But we know now that when he's confident and when he starts off well, nothing can stop him.   
   
 Q.   How would you assess the end of this season with this semifinal in Bercy?   
GILLES SIMON:   Well, you're never happy when you lost a match anyway.   Either first round or in the final, it's the same.   Maybe in two weeks I will think, Okay, it was a good tournament.   
Right now I am disappointed.   I believe that player was beatable.   I didn't play a very good match.   I know I can do better.   I was not able to do better, and it is a disappointment of losing today.  
I'm going to use the lessons I'm drawing from that match, the things I wasn't able to do, to keep working and do better next time.  
   
 Q.   And about the whole year, how do you assess the year?  
GILLES SIMON:   It was a very difficult year for me to play.   I was not calm.   Physically I had many problems, and it affected me mentally.  
Every time I stepped on the court I was not sure I would be able to fight at my best.   What I need is to be able to trust my body and trust my health.   I need to know I can play without any physical problems.   
   
 Q.   Are you going to train physically differently then?  
GILLES SIMON:   Yes.   Anyway I'm going to focus on my physical condition.   Before during the winter I was using my time to improve my fitness and do cardio and things like that because you can't do this during the year.  
But now I'm going to focus on treatment and taking care of my body differently.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT