BNP PARIBAS MASTERS
November 1, 2012
Gilles Simon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 G. SIMON/K. Nishikori
  [Walkover] 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French, please.   
   
 Q.   Are you going to play Lotto?  
GILLES SIMON:   Yes, that is my week.  
   
 Q.   So what is your experience of this week?   It's a bit strange, isn't it?  
GILLES SIMON:   Well, there are ups and downs.   Well, first, the draw didn't seem easy, but in the end it opened up for me.  
This morning I didn't feel very good this morning, and the other one retired, so I will try to feel better tomorrow.   Everything just turns out right.  
   
 Q.   What did you have this morning?   We heard your neck was hurting, and maybe he retired before you did.   
GILLES SIMON:   Well, I don't really want to explain in details where I'm hurting, but it was good he retired today because some days you feel ready and today I didn't.  
But when I saw him warming up this morning, I didn't think he was very fit, either.   We were playing next to each other this morning, and I saw him.   I thought he was a bit tired.   
Normally he runs a lot.   He just played a quarter of an hour today, so I did think maybe he's not very fit today, either.  
   
 Q.   Is it the first time you have so much luck in one single tournament?  
GILLES SIMON:   I remember Casa Blanca, when I won Casa Blanca.   I was really going to retire that time, and Jo retired before I did.   He withdrew.  
But now when I think about September, I was the one retiring and not playing, so for once it's my turn.   I'm happy.  
Last week also I had a bit of luck with the retirement of Janko, but I had many matches this year where I couldn't do what I wanted to do, so in the end of the year it's nice to have that kind of circumstances.  
   
 Q.   Why don't you want to talk about what you have, what's hurting?  
GILLES SIMON:   Well, I don't want to give too much information to other players.   Well, that's it.   I just don't want to talk too much, because like if my opponent says his ankle is hurting, I will make him run a bit more.  
   
 Q.   Who would you like to play next round on this surface?  
GILLES SIMON:   Well, they both have a similar style of game.   Berdych normally on paper is supposed to be better, but I think head to head I'm 4‑2.   I'm leading.   
I thought Anderson played extremely well against Richard yesterday.   Berdych plays well, too, so I have no favorite.  
The only thing I want to do is be extremely pumped up when I get onto that court.  
   
 Q.   You will be among the seeded players in Australia if you win this tournament.   
GILLES SIMON:   I'm not thinking about that.   The only thing I want is to be focused on tomorrow's match.   I stopped looking at my ranking.   
After the French Open I was supposed to be top 10, but then everybody did better than I did, so I thought I should just think about playing.   I will be in a quarterfinal of a Masters Series tomorrow.   I believe I played about 10 times in quarterfinal of a Masters Series, and every time I played a top 4 player.   
This will not be the case tomorrow.   That doesn't mean it's going to be an easy match, but I want to play that match the best I can.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel good on this surface?   Does it suit your game?   
GILLES SIMON:   It's okay.   It's not very fast, and the bounces are not very high.  
It's okay.   I think I can play well on that surface.   When you play against a player like Anderson, just remember the set point of Richard, the kick.   Bounced three, four meters high, and this was on this surface which doesn't bounce much.   So imagine.   
So I will have less returns to do on those very high balls.  
   
 Q.   Do you believe you are improving, that things are getting better?   Are you confident for next year?  
GILLES SIMON:   Well, there's no reason for me to have problems for the rest of my life.   I'm sure I'm going to get over all this.   
Until now I was feeling good, and when I warmed up this morning I felt it wasn't so good.   I couldn't guess it was going to be like that today, so I know, anyway, it's going to get better.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT