MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 20, 2012
Gilles Simon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







G. SIMON/J. Tsonga
  7‑5, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French for Gilles. 

Q.   After the match you said it was a strange match.   Can you explain what you meant?
GILLES SIMON:   It was a strange match for two reasons.   The first one is that he didn't start the match well at all, especially for the second break.   It was different than what I expected because I thought I should be aggressive, and he was playing defensive. 
Also the conditions tonight were very difficult because with the sun setting, it was sometimes hiding behind a building and reappearing, so it was changing all the time.   It was difficult for both of us.   I had trouble staying focused. 

Q.   You asked for the doctor twice.   Can you explain to us what happened. 
GILLES SIMON:   I was just suddenly tired.   I wasn't feeling well.   Especially after the game of 5‑3 on his serve, it was an extremely intense and long game with long rallies, and I had no energy anymore. 
I don't know if it was because of yesterday's match. 

Q.   You say the conditions were changing all the time, but you were able to adapt better than he did. 
GILLES SIMON:   I'm not so sure.   I tried to be solid on my serve.   But today there were many breaks in the match, or I should say break opportunities.   When I was able to find my own rhythm, and when the sun had gone, then I started feeling a lot better and I was able to move well, hit the ball well.   Before that, it was two games yes, two games not. 

Q.   It seems after this week that you are now back to business.   I'm sure this must give you confidence. 
GILLES SIMON:   I don't know what you mean by 'back to business.'   I know I'm playing well.   I will try to enjoy my match tomorrow.   Of course, it's going to be a very tough match.   I want to take advantage as much as I can of this match. 
It's true that I've been able to play for a while now without being bothered by any pain, and I am now able to think about my opponent and think about the ball.   Before, when I was hitting the ball, I was not thinking about the next shot, I was thinking, How come I'm not feeling any pain?   But now I can think only about the ball. 
I'm no longer trying to do what I know already I can do and do it again, I'm just improving.   Also having good results is a help.   I never had doubts about my ability to have good results if I was able to play well, but I was having doubts about my ability to be healthy. 

Q.   The fact that you feel nobody can out‑run you is a change, isn't it? 
GILLES SIMON:   Yes.   I really feel good now.   As I said, I can think about the ball.

Q.   Would it be an accomplishment to beat Nadal, if the word is correct?
GILLES SIMON:   Yes, it is correct.   I beat him once, and it was an accomplishment already.   So it would be an accomplishment every time I'd do it, but even more here on clay. 
Of course, I will not be under three tons of pressure, but it's going to be tough.   I will try to play a good match.   I don't want to totally miss it, so I will try to give him as much trouble as I can, although he's very good at finding solutions.   So even if I lose, I want to play that match the best I can. 

Q.   Jo was saying that he didn't know whether you should go for it or just wait.   What do you think? 
GILLES SIMON:   I will do what I can.   Normally when you play against him, you should not play only defensively.   But, of course, it depends on him.   If he hits mid‑court, it's tough because the ball bounces very high.   If he's able to play deeper, it's even worse.   Every time you have to step one meter back. 
I know what I have to do.   But, of course, it doesn't depend only on me.   If I need to be defensive, I can do it.   If I need to attack, I can do it, too. 

Q.   Does it mean something beating the No.1 French player?
GILLES SIMON:   I always said, and I'm saying it again, that the French ranking never interests me.   But what I like is beating the top five in the world. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT