SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 25, 2012
Gilles Simon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







G. SIMON/J. Melzer
  7‑6, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You had a little trouble at the end of the first set, I think.   How was that in the end when you had your treatment?
GILLES SIMON:   I have a lot of troubles.   I had some pain in my back the last year.   I had some problem.   I always have some troubles with my back, and I had one more.   I tried to do the maximum after that. 
And I think it was hard for my opponent also, because we were playing good tennis at the beginning.   I tried at the end of the set, and then I really thought it would be hard, but he dropped down a little bit.   He didn't play very good after that. 
So was a little bit upset, I think.   Managed to win this one, but it's not a good sign for me. 

Q.   How challenging is it for you now you're a father and you have your family with you usually?   Is it hard for you when you have to focus in your matches but then you have to give the little one attention?
GILLES SIMON:   No, it's easier.   It's easier, because when tennis is difficult, when I don't feel good, when I lose my match, when I am injured, I am always happy to see my wife and my little boy.   It's easier to have them on the tour.
So it doesn't change my motivation.   I still want to win.   I still want to improve, but it's easier when I lose because I have something else.

Q.   How do you regard your matchup with Andy Murray?
GILLES SIMON:   Well, right now I just want to‑‑ I know I have to work hard for the next two days to be ready and 100% against him, because I lost so many times to him already.   I know I have no chance to win if I am not 100%, so it will be my first challenge in this match.
So that's why it's not easy to speak about it at the moment, because I have, yeah, some work to do before playing him.

Q.   So you're just a little anxious about your physical condition; is that fair?
GILLES SIMON:   Yes, I'm always anxious, and because of this I am more (smiling).

Q.   How would you say that the Penn balls at this tournament play relative to the balls at other tournaments?
GILLES SIMON:   Too long.   Um, no, I have just a bad constitution in the back, and so I have troubles happening in different parts of the body.
Now after my knee injury, right after it, I start to have it, and it's almost now two years.   It's almost two years now that I cannot trust my body.

Q.   I mean the balls, tennis balls. 
GILLES SIMON:   Oh, the balls, sorry.

Q.   How do the Penn tennis balls play relative to the balls at other tournaments? 
GILLES SIMON:   It's because I don't hear you with the... 

Q.   How do the Penn balls at this tournament play?
GILLES SIMON:   Well, we start to be used to it.   We have the Penn balls in all the Masters Series on hard courts since, I don't know, four years, five years now. 

Q.   But compared to like Wilson balls. 
GILLES SIMON:   Ah, they are different.   Yeah, of course.   They get big here.   They are not always reacting the same, but here they get big, so I feel they are flying less than before.   I don't know why.   I don't know if it depends on the court also, which is slower.
But I feel like I have more time and that I control them better than usual, better than the last years, yes.

Q.   You are one of the best players in France and you have injuries.   You usually play the top players really close.   So do you feel a lot of pressure not being physically well when you have just to step it up against the best players?
GILLES SIMON:   Well, I just feel sad because I know that when I defeated them I was 100%, and that was the only reason I was able to win or to be close sometimes, even if I lost it.
But not only against help them.   I had a very bad month last month in South America because of it.   I didn't play the top players, but I didn't win any match because everybody's playing very good. 
You really have to be 100% to have a chance to win no matter who is in front of you.   So I just hope it will be okay, because I had a very good tournament last week.   I feel good on the court.   I played a long match, and I was ready to fight for three hours every time. 
For a long time I didn't feel that good on the court, I mean physically, and this week, yeah, I was, as I said, playing good.   I hope that tomorrow will be okay.   It's not easy because I just finished it, but I hope that tomorrow will be fine and I will have a good practice and then be 100% against Andy. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT