WIMBLEDON
June 26, 2010
Gilles Simon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MURRAY/G. Simon
  6-1, 6-4, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Hard luck on your match to you. It's been a tough year for you injury-wise. How are you feeling now physically?
 GILLES SIMON: Tired, but it's good for me, because I was -- at the beginning of the match I was really tight. I just couldn't play my points. When I decided to attack I was missing everything. 
 When I decided to just, you know, play the ball in the court, three, four times in a row, then I was not able to brace. So it was really difficult for me. 
 Finally, after half an hour, it was a little bit better. I was moving better, hitting better, and finally I played a good match until the end.
 But it was just too late. 6-1, 2-0 on grass, it's hard to win. 

 Q. Do you think if this match happened even a month or two down the road it would have been a lot closer? Do you just think you needed another few weeks? 
 GILLES SIMON: Yes, of course I need a few weeks, even a lot of weeks. What was nice was that when I was able to play my tennis at the end of the match, I mean the second half of the match, it was good. I was hitting good. 
 It was hard for him to win the points also. He was serving extremely well. Huge first serve, and it was hard for me to return. So we were fighting only on my serve, but it was a good tennis. I think I was playing close to the level I played before. 
 The thing is, it's hard for me, you know, to play like this for three hours yet. It was easier for me to play like this when I was close to be out, I mean. 
 But it's nice, because it could be you know, 6-1, 6-2, 6-1 without any sensation and just missing the match. So at least I played two sets.

 Q. You must be looking forward then to the season from here on out just to get more match play and get back up to your top level. 
 GILLES SIMON: Yes, I hope. The next week will be important for me. It was hard to be ready for a slam just playing one tournament before in Eastbourne. I knew it. 
 I saw that it was possible for me to play against Andy third round. So as I said this morning, even when I was at the top of my shape in 2008 I lost twice against him. I knew it would be hard this time.
 But finally, I played my match. I had a good level at the end. I will try to keep that for the next week.

 Q. Just one more question. This is a question for your fans, because I Tweeted on my page if they wanted to ask you one question. They say that you know Robert Patterson is the most famous man on the planet from Twilight.
 GILLES SIMON: I know.

 Q. They say you look just like Rob. Do you ever get confused for Robert Patterson? It's a great compliment to look like Robert Patterson. 
 GILLES SIMON: Too many person told me that at the moment. So, yeah, I think that should be.
 But, you know, when someone tell you that you look like someone you're never happy. You just wasn't be yourself . 
 But I know my coach told it to me the first time, and then Novak Djokovic always call me Robert when he see me.

 Q. Looking at your hair now, are you going to let your hair grow a little bit longer to get to R-Pat's?
 GILLES SIMON: I don't know. I don't care about my hair. I just leave it like this. I just took the shower. I don't know how I look like now. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT