BARCLAYS DUBAI TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS MEN
February 22, 2010
Gilles Simon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. BAGHDATIS/G. Simon
  7-6, 6-4

 Q. How do you think it went? All your thoughts? 
 GILLES SIMON: Well, I think I could do better than that today, but it's not easy. I didn't play in that match. So every time it was tight at the end of the set, I was my level was dropping out too much to win.

 Q. The weather conditions were good or no? 
 GILLES SIMON: No, it was good. As I said, I had just two problems today. The first one, I couldn't serve as usual. I was just serving 180, not more. Because I had a pain right here, so it was not easy when I serve. 
 The second thing, as I said, I had many opportunities sometimes but every time I was close, I just did too many mistakes. Easy points for him. 

 Q. Considering how little competitive tennis you've had in three months, this was a pretty difficult first round to get, wasn't it? 
 GILLES SIMON: Yes, it was difficult. But Marcos is playing good. But the thing is today, I don't think he was playing better than me. I didn't think at the end of the match I was playing far better than him when we were playing the game.
 But he was serving good, very good. He served many aces, so it was hard for me to have a chance to work him. And finally the last game, he didn't have to do anything (smiling). Just did four mistakes, because then I think it's just because I need to play more match. 

 Q. He said obviously you're a great player and you were playing some great tennis out there, but he thought you lacked confidence because of lack of matches. Is that correct or not?
 GILLES SIMON: Yes, that's it. I think the shot I missed at the end, I was able to put them on the court just a few games before when it was much more important. 
 So, of course it's harder to play some great shots when you're playing. But the thing is I was playing four winners two games before and four mistakes. And that is not normal. You can do one or two, but not four in a row. 

 Q. Can you tell us what the doctor has said about your knee? That you can play, but if you feel it, you must stop; is that correct? 
 GILLES SIMON: Yes. It's difficult because it's the tendon. It's not regenerating itself. It's very hard. So I know I have to get used to it. I just work a lot to be stronger all the muscles around. And I just practice just now 15, 20 days I'm practicing after three months of rest. 
 So, of course, it showed. That's why even with the knee I had so many problems everywhere on the body. But it's not a problem. It's going to disappear when I get used to it.

 Q. Is the doctor optimistic? 
 GILLES SIMON: It's difficult. You never know what's going to happen. But the thing is now it's hard to play because I did what I had to do. And from here on my leg I have no inflammation anymore. So inflammation can come back any time, but at the moment, I have to play. 

 Q. What is the problem in the chest you mentioned? 
 GILLES SIMON: Well, the thing is as I said, I need to practice a lot to come back as quick as possible. So I didn't rest anything of this since I'm practicing. I'm practicing hard. I practice the more I can, and my body is not used to it. So it really is now that I have a huge pain right here and I cannot serve. 
 But it's not a problem. I have to do it. I have to practice a lot. My goal was not to win this tournament. It was to be ready for the U.S. I have 15 days more to practice, and I'll try to do something good during these two weeks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT