SHANGHAI ATP MASTERS 1000
October 16, 2009
Gilles Simon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DJOKOVIC/G. Simon
  6-3, 2-6, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Great game tonight. It must be very frustrating to play someone like Djokovic. You play great shots and he keeps getting them back. He keeps returning these impossible shots?
 GILLES SIMON: Yes, he's a very good player, and I know that, so I know that I have to play my best tennis to have a chance to win. 
 I think that today I was close even if the score is seemed other, but the thing is that I had some problem with my serve, and I really had to fight on every point to -- you know, each point was really hard to win, and without any points, you know, just easy on my serve. It was complicated to win today. 

 Q. The third set it seemed like you had lost your energy. Was it because of all the long rallies that you had between?
 GILLES SIMON: I don't know. Maybe I seemed tired, but of course I run a lot. But for me, I just think that he played far better in the third set than in the two first ones.
 In the second set he was doing some mistakes. In the third set, I don't know how many unforced errors he did, but not too much, I think. I mean, he didn't miss anything, and then it was hard for me, because in the second set I just wanted to make him run, to make him miss some shots, and finally in the third set he was not missing anything, and then I really had to run everywhere on every point just to try to win one. I just think he played better than me in the third. 

 Q. What are your short-term goals right now in terms of getting a higher ranking and win?
 GILLES SIMON: Well, I don't know what will be my ranking next week, so still it's different, because the -- it will be too hard to reach the Masters in London, so try to finish in the 10 best players two years in a row would be nice.

 Q. What about the next year?
 GILLES SIMON: For next year? 
 Well, I think I had bad moments on the court during three months this year, so I feel that I'm playing better now since the US and the few tournaments before, so just try to keep that, to enjoy again to play, as today, even if I just lost the match. 
 I had fun on the court even if I was nervous or so, and, yes, just try to play good match like this but during all the season, not just, you know, two months good, two months bad.

 Q. I'm from Russia, and our player, Davydenko, is playing Djokovic tomorrow. So any kind of advice you could give to play against a player like Djokovic? Because they're both defensive players. 
 GILLES SIMON: The thing is every time Novak defeating me, then he won the tournament. (laughter.)
 No, I'm wrong. He lost the final in Cincinnati. But anyway, in Doha -- in Dubai I lost 7-5 in the third and he won. The semifinals here last year during the Masters Cup, I lost and he won, so we'll see. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT