JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 28, 2009
Jonathan Caldwell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JONATHAN CALDWELL: It was good. I played nicely. I played very similar yesterday. I just managed to make a few more putts and keep the mistakes off the card, and the weather was good going out in the morning.

 Q. Must be an enormously satisfying season you've had?
 JONATHAN CALDWELL: It's been a long time coming. I've been playable fairly decent the last couple of months and it's all starting to fall into place nicely.

 Q. Any particular reason why it's worked today? 
 JONATHAN CALDWELL: Not really, no. Just I've been just kind of grinding, working hard on the range and at home and working hard on my putting. I don't know why it happened today, and it just happened.

 Q. But on a course like you like?
 JONATHAN CALDWELL: It seems to suit my game quite nicely. It's playing reasonably long. The fairways play a little wider and it's always nicer to come in from the fairway than it is from the wet rough. I've been driving the ball fairly decent this week which is good.

 Q. Tell us about the highlights out there today. 
 JONATHAN CALDWELL: Not too many. I played quite solid. I did manage to get one severe plugged ball on the bunker and managed to get it on the green from 130 or something. Moved about 30 yards in the air right-to-left. Pretty pleased with that one. Looked like I was going to drop a shot there maybe.

 Q. That sort of things builds the confidence and keeps you going. 
 JONATHAN CALDWELL: Yeah, because I missed a few chances, fairly close chances the two holes previous, and had a decent tee shot and got a little unlucky and to make bogey would have been nasty but I managed to scrape away with a par.

 Q. How do you reflect on this last year for the first time on The European Tour?
 JONATHAN CALDWELL: I've learned a lot about myself and my game and I know now what I've got to work on and get better at. I was delighted coming out of Q-School to get my card. I knew it was going to be a tough task to keep it but I've certainly learned a lot. The way everything is run and the travelling and all stands me in good stead for next season.

 Q. You're obviously good. You wouldn't be here otherwise. But what have you learned? 
 JONATHAN CALDWELL: I've made a lot of silly mistakes this year, being on cut lines and taking on a few shots I probably shouldn't have taken on; and a double-bogey here or there where bogey would have gotten me in and things like that. Just maturing into a better player hopefully and those double-bogeys will quite. 

 Q. You sound like you're pretty relaxed about it, as well. 
 JONATHAN CALDWELL: Absolutely. I have nothing to lose. I've had a very poor season up to now and hopefully tomorrow the game will still be there that I had today.

 Q. With the situation regarding your card, are you sort of still positive over coming events? 
 JONATHAN CALDWELL: I'm more looking at Challenge Tour probably next year than anything. I'll go back to Q-School for sure, I'll play a few on The Challenge Tour at the end of the year here and hopefully secure a Challenge Tour card and I can go to Q-School knowing I've got that. 

 Q. Did I hear you say you'll do Kazakhstan? 
 JONATHAN CALDWELL: I'm not playing next week hopefully I'll be playing next week with a Top-10 maybe, but I'll play Amsterdam for the Dutch Futures and Kazakhstan the week after that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT