INDIANA UNIVERSITY BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 29, 2019
Justin Smith
Damezi Anderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Indiana - 84, Gannon - 54
Q. I think it's 29 points off turnovers tonight. Do you feel like particularly that strong start to the second half was really triggered by getting out in transition? Just how important is that element of defense to offense for you guys this year?
JUSTIN SMITH: That is definitely a big part. Coach has really preached of letting our defense create our offense. I'd say one of our strengths is getting out in transition, getting easy baskets, so as many turnovers as we can cause and get out and running is definitely going to help us.
Q. Justin, that block you had on Matt Johnson, was there anything that got said there between your old high school teammate?
JUSTIN SMITH: No, I didn't say anything to him. But it was good to share the floor again and to see him.
Q. Both the freshman had 12 points a piece Armaan and Trayce. What did you guys see from them today that impressed you?
DAMEZI ANDERSON: They just they played hard today for their first time out there. I feel like they did everything they were supposed to do out there for the first time for them to be out there as a freshman. So I feel like they played hard and had a good time.
JUSTIN SMITH: I might also say that they played confident, they were aggressive and they really didn't really shy away from the competition or really try and be a little bit passive, so they really went at it.
Q. Justin, you had a really good line tonight, 18 points in 20 minutes, perfect from the field, 8-9 from the line no turnovers, three assists. What were the big keys to being that efficient during the time you were out there?
JUSTIN SMITH: I would say justly letting the game come to me. Not trying to force anything, not worry about, really just letting my teammates play, just get open, not -- really, honestly, just not forcing anything when it comes down to it. The way our offense is organized it's very free flowing, just if it happens, it happens and it just worked for me tonight.
Q. For both you guys. Better night from the free-throw line. How did you guys manage to focus in after Marquette?
DAMEZI ANDERSON: We just worked. It was just hard work and then just playing together and being confident in our throws.
Q. Just how comfortable were you the first game where you actually shooting from the new distance. You were 2-4. How did it feel and your thoughts about it?
DAMEZI ANDERSON: Just like a normal three-point line. It's just a line right there. I just got to contribute and score.
Q. How would you describe the tempo and the flow you guys had the first half compared to the second half of the game?
JUSTIN SMITH: I would say the first half was definitely a little awkward. It was kind of, we were kind of playing together for the first time different lineups, really just seeing what the game atmosphere is like and once we kind of got settled down at halftime we really got into our groove and really got it going and like everything started clicking from there.
Q. Justin, you mentioned how the offense is kind of more free flowing. Without Devonte out there playing who can probably help you guys move the offense how do you guys think you did out there?
JUSTIN SMITH: For the most part, I think in the second half it was definitely much better than the first half. In the second half we really got into our offense, really got moving, really got screening moving the ball. And once we made a couple passes it's easy to get inside, it's easy to capitalize on defensive mistakes. So once we get Al and Devonte back that will really help us even more.
Q. How much work at point had Armaan Franklin had and what impressed you about how he ran that position specifically, starting out there and having to do that stuff at that position.
JUSTIN SMITH: Well, when Al had his little knee thing, then, that was like a week ago, so I would say he's had about a week at the point. And for his first time I would say he did a pretty good job. It's not easy playing point but he was steady, he got us into our offense, he got us into our sets and he can definitely build from it going forward.
Q. For both of you, how much did it help to have Rob get out, there at least a little bit?
DAMEZI ANDERSON: With Rob out there it just helps automatically because he's experienced, he had his first year, he started as a freshman, so when he's out there it just makes everything easier for everybody.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT