TMS MONTE CARLO
April 18, 2001
Arnaud DiPasquale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 

THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  What went through your mind before you stepped on to the court? Did you think,  "I don't have the right to miss that match"?

ARNAUD DI PASQUALE: No, I don't think that kind of thing anymore.  I feel inferior now.  That's what's nice about it.  It's the good thing. 


Q.  Do you feel inferior in front of any player?

ARNAUD DI PASQUALE: No, but I don't want to think about this kind of thing anymore.  I want to avoid putting pressure on myself.  Last time I lost to him in two straight sets, and I wanted to go on to the court and see what happened without asking myself any specific questions.  I just wanted to play and see what would happen. 


Q.  Were you able not to ask questions to yourself until the end?

ARNAUD DI PASQUALE: Very good question.  No, I wasn't able to do that.  I started off very well both sets.  I was rallying, I was relaxed, and I felt there was not even a match being played because I was playing well.  I was up 4-1 in the first set, and I was playing well.  And I don't know what happened then, if I lacked concentration or I was not as concentrated as in the beginning, but every time he came back in the score, he stuck back to me.  This is maybe one regret I can have about that match, is that each time it was 5-4 again, but the main thing was to win.  I'm happy.  I have no complaints. 


Q.  Is it strange not to have someone to talk with about the match after it happened and to analyze what happened during the match and your mistakes and everything?

ARNAUD DI PASQUALE: Well, no, because I know what the mistakes I make are  - most of the time.  They are always the same mistakes, so it's not always difficult to analyze. No, in fact, it doesn't bother me.  I made mistakes for sure, I did stupid things.  I'm a bit angry at myself, but I don't know what to say.  It's different.  As I said last time, it's not that bad to be without a coach.  In fact, I go out there, play my match.  If I miss, I miss.  If I win, all the better.  Now one important thing is that a whole year without a coach is not possible.  From time to time, it's okay, but not the whole year. 


Q.  What do you like in your game presently, in your way of playing, your attitude?

ARNAUD DI PASQUALE: Well, not many things, in fact.  I won two matches.  That's a good thing. But I'm not delirious about it.  I have nothing to be really proud of.  I didn't do anything fabulous on the court yet.  I made mistakes, I'm not perfect.  Today, he forced me to play long rallies, long points.  It was more of a match.  Yesterday, Safin was missing after two or three shots.  So it was more of a match today. It's not bad, but I think today in the important moments I was able to tighten up the game.  But each time I felt I could reach a new level, he came back into the match again.  So...


Q.  But there were strong points in your game today.  What were they?

ARNAUD DI PASQUALE: Sorry, I have to think about it.  It doesn't come immediately to my mind. In fact, maybe when I didn't want to miss, I didn't miss.  Even on a first serve on his part, I was able to return.  But at 4-1 in the first set, I made two or three mistakes.  I put the ball in the net.  So it's either I'm able to dominate the game, either I let myself be back in the court by the opponent. 


Q.  Do you like playing early in the morning?

ARNAUD DI PASQUALE: No, I hate it.  This morning I was surprised, though, because I woke up at 7:20 and I was feeling energy, given the early hour it was in the morning.  And this is, in fact, because I feel eager to play.  That's the positive point, in fact, this week  - it's I'm motivated. 


Q.  Are you going to the beach now?

ARNAUD DI PASQUALE: I don't know.  I'm looking at the weather.  No, in fact, I'll hang around doing nothing.  I'm very good at that.  (Laughter.) I'm not sure I'm going to hit again today.  The first thing I'm going to do is go and see the physiotherapist to get treatment.  That's the first thing.  Because I played a long time, I was cramping. 


Q.  It seems that you totally refuse to take yourself seriously.  You don't want to take the tournament seriously. 

ARNAUD DI PASQUALE: Well, that's the way it's going to be for all the other tournaments.  I want to remain cool, and this will not change normally. I'm alone now, so I'm taking things as I feel them, and I want to remain relaxed.  And I think it's better that way.  But, in fact, this is my nature.  This is how I am.  Lately, I changed and I was thinking too much.  I was asking too many questions to myself all the time about everything, so it's better if I'm now back to my habits and being more natural. 


Q.  Are you thinking about the next match?

ARNAUD DI PASQUALE: No.  But what is positive is that the last two evenings I was thinking about the match I had to play the next day.  I'm saying that because it's rare that it happens to me, and, in fact, I'm pleased to see that the flame is still there. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT