THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 1, 2019
Sung Kang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Well, you've played this event several years, you had a top 10 a couple years ago.  What do you know about this course, and the fact in a when you get to the weekend there's not a ton of scoring opportunities with some of those pin locations.
SUNG KANG: I mean, it's hard out here.  I think the closer you can hit to the greens -- they're really firm, so it's hard to hit it close to the hole.  Before entering this week, I told my caddie, there won't be anything negative from my mouth this week.  If I say something bad about anything, I'll just be negative each time.  So that was my key, just be patient and then be positive, and whatever happens -- I hit some good shots that ended up in the wrong spots, and that can happen down here, so it's all by the natures and bounces and whatever, so just take it.
Q. When these are kind of new greens for everybody, based on the fact that they've been resurfaced and maybe it's not so easy to read the greens quite yet, what have you learned about them so far over the first two rounds?
SUNG KANG: Putting-wise, I think the turf is better than last year.  It's easier to putt.  The only thing is the greens are so firm, so can't really attack the flag.  You've got to be going mostly -- a 7-iron is bouncing like 25 feet most of the time.  The greens are tiny here, so you've just got to be going to be fat side of the green all the time.  So you're not going to have as much opportunity to make birdies.  Even the wind is not blowing as much.
Q. At this point in the schedule, done with the California swing, kind of getting geared up for the big events, so to speak, on the schedule.  How do you treat a work like this?  Are there things you're focusing on so it peaks at a certain time?
SUNG KANG: I think every week is different.  I had a week off last week.  I play all the events, Bay Hill, this one, PLAYERS, so I was really trying to prepare for those three events.  I think it's a easier for us this time because we can just ride down, it's only a couple hours' drive and we can -- the grasses are all the same, weather is pretty similar, so I think it's way easier for us now.
Q. How much different is it to have all the Florida Swing in one shot?  How much does that help?
SUNG KANG: Oh, way more.  We don't have to get on a plane not even one way.  We can just drive down like an hour and a half, two hours, and it'll be way easier for us.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT