AT&T BYRON NELSON
May 11, 2019
Sung Kang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Sung, just some comments about your day.  Obviously a long time waiting to get on the golf course.  What did you see out there?  
SUNG KANG: Yeah, I waited long enough.  I was prepared for this and I just made a couple bad mistakes on the golf course and pressed a first few holes.  I'm glad we were able to finish quick today.  Expecting to have a good one tomorrow.   
 Q.  Made a big par putt on 5 for momentum to keep going.  Finally fell victim to a bogey for the first time in several holes.  
 Any reset of your mindset or plan going into tomorrow?   
SUNG KANG: Definitely I didn't play as good as the last couple days.  Who knows, tomorrow I just play like what I normally play and I'll be good.   
 Q.  They mentioned before the experience in Houston when you held a big lead.  Draw on any of that in your 9 holes today and anything you can draw from that going into tomorrow?  
SUNG KANG: It was so weird, I probably had so much time to rest today, I felt really calm and wasn't as nervous as actually even last couple of days.  It was kind of little different day.  It was a little different experience today.  Not what I expected.  I thought I was going to be more nervous and things like that.  I was really calm and really different.   
 Q.  Sung, can you talk a little bit about how you spent your time?  You obviously had a long wait.  How did you spend your time getting prepared?  
SUNG KANG: You know, I just tried to save as energy as I could save and I still fresh.  Worked out a little bit yesterday and slept a lot and then take a couple naps.  Ready to go tomorrow.   
 Q.  You have a long day tomorrow.  How do you mentally prepare for a day like that?  
SUNG KANG: The good thing is, positive thing is we only play 9 holes and I made a couple mistakes I shouldn't have.  We know how to adjust tomorrow.  Just play like the last couple days and it will be just fine tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT