JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 12, 2015
Chris Stroud
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. 8-under 63 for Chris Stroud today.  You started the day at 10-under par.  Just take us through the mindset when you teed up today.  What were you thinking going into the round?CHRIS STROUD: You know, after finishing my round pretty early yesterday and watching Jordan Spieth come down the stretch and shoot 61, you know, it's pretty awesome to see.  It's nice to see somebody dominating the sport right now.  I just wish it was me.  So I knew today coming out there I had to do the same thing.  I had to go shoot 9 or 10-under.  That was my goal.  The honest thing, the weather conditions couldn't have been any better.  The golf course was in great shape.  The mud balls were the only thing we had to fight today, and I had a few shots, probably some of my best ones of the day, including my 6-iron on 18, you're guessing.  You have no idea where the ball is going to go.  Even Scott Piercy, who I played with, he had a few shots, beautiful swings and the ball just takes off.  Everybody is going to have to deal with that, and that's the only thing I would say that was tough.  You had to be really patient and hopefully miss it in the right spots.  My short game saved me a ton today.Q. With that patience, was there any point in the round you felt it was going to be a special tournament?CHRIS STROUD: You know, I've thought that so many times.  This is my ninth year on TOUR, and I thought so many times coming down the stretch, this may be my time.  But I try to just stay in the moment, really enjoy it and do the best I can, and I've done a great job this week mentally fighting through it.  I had a tough, really slow year this year, really been putting well the last few months.  Finally started hitting the ball nicely the last couple of weeks, and it's coming around.  It's showing.Q. And do you feel like staying in the moment is the key to your game at this point?CHRIS STROUD: I think so.  You know, trying to have as much fun as possible.  I know I'm working as hard as I possibly can, and I've had my family out the last few weeks on the road, my two little girls, and it just keeps perspective on things, and I've really enjoyed having them, and I think I've got one more week next week.  Doesn't look like I'm going to get the spot next week to go play the British, but I'm going to go play the Barbasol next week.Q. Chris, great round of 63 there.  What was working this whole tournament?CHRIS STROUD: The whole tournament, I would say Thursday, Friday, I was driving it okay, which is good for me.  I've struggled with the driver the last couple of years.  But my short game and putting have just really helped me out.  Thursday, Friday, I was even par.  I didn't make a birdie on the par-5s, I think, until today.  I don't know if I even made a birdie on the par-5s.  I was one over through three days on the par-5s.  Really, wedges were great, chipping was great and the putting's been very solid.  I knew if I can start hitting the ball a little better, I've got a chance, and there was a guy I talked to for 10 minutes on Saturday morning, yesterday before we went out, and he gave me a couple little tips to do, and I started hitting the ball really nicely, and gave myself a lot of opportunities, hit a lot of great iron shots.  Those greens are really pretty soft and a lot of spike marks out there, and you just gotta hit a lot of good putts, because you get over those 8 and 10-footers, you know you're supposed to make them, but best thing you can do is just give it the best putt you can and hope for the best.Q. Are you comfortable with the position you're in?  A couple of things have to go your way, but you're sitting at 18-under?CHRIS STROUD: You know, at the end of the week, the way my year has gone, it's been a slow year for me.  Not anymore.  I finally broke through and played really well this week.  You know, I wish the best on everybody coming in.  It would be nice to be able to take that spot to the British, to go back to the home of golf, it would be very, very special, but that's asking quite a bit.  I think guys would have to fall apart really bad.  It's going to be hard on these holes to really fall apart.  It's set up to make birdies.  I had my opportunities.  The only thing we were fighting today were the mud balls, and 18 I hit a 6-iron just as good as I could hit it, trying to a low draw in there and it just went straight right, and luckily I had a shot to chip it.  And that's the only thing that everybody's going to be struggling with today is hitting the fairway, and you've got mud on your ball and you gotta fight that.  And you just gotta be patient and hopefully it doesn't mess it up too bad, but other than that, it was a great week for me.Q. You mentioned this is a potential breakthrough for you.  Sounds like it's been hard for you to get those Top 10s.CHRIS STROUD: This year has been tough.  I think last year I had eight, nine or ten Top 10s, it was like I just teed it up and I finished Top 10.  It was so easy last year, last two years.  Golf is tough, and everybody knows that.  And you just get a little bit off and it's a slippery slope, and I started the year off not hitting it well, not putting it that well, and then I just kept working, working, working in the wrong direction.  Finally got things put back together.  I got my mind back to where it needed to be, and just keep working on my drills and don't worry about the results as much, and I started playing really well back in February.  And you know, I think this year, this last year I got invited to a bunch of world events, played in Malaysia, played in Japan, played last year in the British Open.  Had a lot of world travel last year.  So it wore me out in the fall, and I think that's really hurt me in the spring.  So these guys that travel all around the world I'm very impressed with, because it takes a lot to get used to.  I'm just going to have to plan better on how to prepare myself for the spring coming out, you know, Hawaii, coming out sharp, because I was dead.  I was tired.  Spring took a lot out of me.Q. You'd be more than happy to make a trip overseas, though, tonight, wouldn't you?CHRIS STROUD: I would not say no.  I would love to be on that jet.  We'll see.  Like I said, I played the best I could.  I'm very happy where I'm at.  I would love to have had a couple more, but it's not up to me anymore.Q. Do guys come prepared regardless?  I mean did you come in --CHRIS STROUD: I've got all the stuff.  You know, I've been on the road for three weeks and I'm going to be on the road for probably another three.  And I usually don't like to go six in a row, but I'm playing well.  I don't have to practice too hard, and I got my family on the road.  I got my two girls here, so it's nice.  So it would be an absolute bonus and a pleasure to go play the Open Championship at the world of golf, basically the home of golf, and I sure hope it happens, but like I said, I'm happy.  I had a great week, and I've really made some good strides.  That might be the lowest under par I've been on TOUR in nine years.  So I'm really happy with that.  18 under is a nice breakthrough for me.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT