SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 3, 2015
Chris Stroud
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Chris, I thought we were going to see a PGA TOUR first out there with a pair of Lamar graduates tied for the lead.   Shawn Stefani up there at 9 and you had a couple good ones.
CHRIS STROUD:   I really hit the ball great the last two days.   Missed one short one today.   I made all the short ones yesterday, but it was nice, nice to see Shawn's name up there.   I was chasing him.   Giving all I had.   Gave myself a few chances coming in.   Little bit too far, 30, 40-footers hard the make.

Q.   You have missed for the week five fairways and seven greens over 36 holes.
CHRIS STROUD:   Yeah.   It's been nice.   I mean, I've been working hard all year.   Just haven't been putting the scores together.   And weeks that I've hit the ball well, I haven't been making the putts.   Finally starting to put some good rounds together.   Shot the exact same score on Wednesday in the Pro-Am.   Kept my score on Wednesday.   I shot three 68s in a row.   I talked to my coach, Brian White, I started working with again, and no matter what I do, no matter who I go see, every time I work with him, it seems to work.

Q.   You've gone through a couple variations of putters through the years.   Tell me about the latest one.
CHRIS STROUD:   I'm not necessarily loving the center shaft, like no, you know, offset, but it seems to help me get the ball starting on line.   For some reason I've been struggling with short putts this year.   I feel great over the ball and I hit a good putt, but it seems to go right.   This putter hopefully -- I don't know how long I'm going to use it.   It's a great Scotty Cameron putter.   Rather more of a new style.   I'm putting well this week.

Q.   Let's talk about "Stroud proud," everyone in neon yellow T-shirts today, you're rocking the neon yellow pants.   Do we have a coordinated outfit for the weekend?
CHRIS STROUD:   I wore these pants for them today.   It was actually a surprise for me last night.   I think everybody ordered like 150 shirts.   It's really awesome.   Hopefully get to play some golf with Shawn the next few days.   I may miss him tomorrow, but hopefully I get him Sunday.

Q.   What color variation shirts?
CHRIS STROUD:   It's a secret.   I can't tell you.

Q.   Little drama.   Great talking to you.   So happy you're playing well.
CHRIS STROUD:   Thank you.

Q.   Talk about your round today, what was working for you?   How did you feel?
CHRIS STROUD:   That's my third round in a row that I've hit 14 or 15 greens in regulation.   Hit a lot of fairways.   I'm not hitting the golf ball very far.   Instead Jason Kokrak, he's hitting it 40 past me every hole.   I can't look at it that way.   I'm just trying to play boring golf.   Hit the fairway and green.   I'm hitting my irons really nicely and starting to make some putts.   That's what it takes.   Lot of good chances.   Keep myself in the short grass.   The greens are so nice, you can really get them to roll and make some putts.

Q.   You're obviously focused on what you're doing out there.   It's nice the see fellow Houstonians.   Shawn was hoping for a Texas, Houston shoot-out on Sunday?
CHRIS STROUD:   He must have teed off early this morning.   He's playing some great golf.   I played with him at Bay Hill this year.   He's putting great and driving it great.   You got to do that out here, especially this golf course.   Got to keep the ball in the fairway, and if you get it close to the hole on the greens, you can make some putts.

Q.   What was it like seeing that group that's following you with bright yellow?   You can't miss them.
CHRIS STROUD:   It's pretty cool.   I really wish they could travel a little more often, keep my spirits up.   It's really nice.   It's fun to play home town and have all the family and friends that don't get to see you all year long.   They finally get to see you in person.   Nice to be playing well.

Q.   They try to cheer as much as they can, whenever they can.   They give you a little bit of motivation?
CHRIS STROUD:   Keep your spirits up.   Just get as loud as you can.   I don't want to be quiet, but the first two days, just take care of business, nothing crazy, don't make any big mistakes.   There's four rounds.   You got to make the cut first and give yourself a chance on the weekend.   And that's my goal, to go out there and do the same thing, lot of boring golf, lot of fairways and greens.   See if I can put myself close to the pins.

Q.   The women were the ones that chose the colors for the shirts.   The men kind of go along with it?
CHRIS STROUD:   They were trying to get this bright, bright highlighter green.   Little more yellow.   It's awesome and cool to see.   Obviously I tried to match them a little bit with the pants today.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT