THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 4, 2014
Chris Stroud
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  CHRIS STROUD:   Very solid.   I mean I left a few out there both days.   Putted‑‑ I made some long putts today.   Yesterday I didn't make any bogeys.   Today I made I think one, almost two bogeys.   I made one bogey today. 
Left a couple loose ones out there.   I definitely drove the ball better today.   It played a little longer. 
Couldn't quite keep up with my boy, Billy Hurley today, but we played really nicely.   It was nice.

Q.   The temperatures are about 15 to 20 degrees cooler than it was yesterday.   So did the conditions change, and if so, how did that change the way you played the golf course?
CHRIS STROUD:   It definitely played a little longer.   This morning we‑‑ I think we teed off at 7:00, it was probably 60 degrees, but there was no wind.   So you know, we didn't play any percentage as far as elevation or cool.   As the day heated up, it plays a little shorter and a little shorter.   But the fairways definitely dried out a little bit, which was nice. 
But definitely, I mean I'd say the first nine holes played, you know, maybe a club or half a club longer every hole.

Q.   First, I wasn't there at the time.   I understand you rolled in a 32‑footer to birdie the hardest hole on course?
CHRIS STROUD:   I think that was about right, actually.   What hole was that? 

Q.   13. 
CHRIS STROUD:   13.   It kind of got my round going, I feel like.   I made birdie on the first hole.   That back 9, I've been playing well on the back 9.   I feel like there's a little bit more birdie holes.   That's not really a birdie hole.   But I hit a driver‑‑ really good driver 4‑iron into that hole, made a great, beautiful 30, 32‑footer on that hole.
Played beautifully on the back.   I kind of gave up one.   Didn't birdie 17, the par‑5, which anytime you make a par‑5, you should give yourself a chance at birdie.   Didn't quite get it up‑and‑down for 50 yards.   Feel like I kind of missed the boat there.
Then on 18, it was 160‑yard shot and just hit a terrible shot short of the green.   Didn't get up‑and‑down, made bogey.   So it was a little bit of loss of momentum there.
I kind of got it going on the Front 9, the first few holes, I gave myself some chances, didn't make them.   And then I made a birdie on, what was it, 2.   And then kind of leveled out again.   And just kind of hung in there.   Wasn't really hitting great shots, wasn't hitting it close.   15, 20, 30 feet, a bunch of 2‑putts, and then I actually 3‑putted on one hole, No. 5 or 6 out there, long par‑4.   Hit a great driver, a little chip, 7‑iron and the ball just fell out of the air, I guess from the mud on the ball, and I had like 40 feet, 50 feet and I hit a great first putt about four feet by and I missed it.   So that was really the only‑‑ 18 and that hole are the only two holes I kind of gave up shots today.
But very happy with it, played beautifully.   I definitely need to tighten up a little bit on my chipping, even though I got a lot up‑and‑down from the short side of the greens a couple times, but my wedges really aren't as sharp as I'd like them to be.   I'm going to go out there, just make sure I keep hitting fairways and should be good to go.

Q.   How cool is it on July 4th having Billy leading the tournament with his military experience?   And what's that mean to a player like you?
CHRIS STROUD:   It's awesome.   It's special.   And Billy is one of the greatest guys out here.   He's been a great friend of mine.   He was on the Palmer cup team with me out of college.   And it's impressive, a guy that when he turned pro‑‑ actually, he didn't even turn pro.   He went to the military and took off three, four, five years of golf and comes out and gets his game back and gets on TOUR. 
There's a lot to be said about that.   He couldn't be a more solid guy.   I'm happy for him.   He's playing great, and I hope I get to play with him tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT