THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 3, 2014
Chris Stroud
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Overall impression of your round today?
CHRIS STROUD:   I left a few out there, but the golf course is in great shape.   Fairways are a little soft.   But I played solid.   I got a new driver in play.   I drove it very good.
I hit a couple of loose shots, but I don't think I made a bogey, if I can recall.   I don't think I made a bogey, so that helps.
Hit a lot of good shots.   I had a lot of 9‑irons for some reason.   Same shot today.   But the wind's down.   It got a little windy on the back 9, but I would say played solid.   I mean finished really strong.   I mean 4‑under‑‑ I feel about 4 or 5‑under is how I played, but it really was only 2 until the last two holes.   I birdied the last two holes.   But I putted strong.   Definitely struggled on the greens with the speed.   The greens are a little slower‑‑ they look really fast and they're not, so I want to go putt a little bit and figure it out.

Q.   And then just talk about your shot on 18.   What did you hit?
CHRIS STROUD:   It was right in between 9‑iron and 8‑iron.   We adjusted 156 hole which is a perfect 8‑iron, but it was a little downwind.   I teed up an 8‑iron, tried to hit a really high 150 shot, just really soft.   And it came out just perfect.   So best shot of the day.   Nice to finish a little 2.

Q.   And then lastly, what do you have to do to keep it up this week?
CHRIS STROUD:   Gotta keep the ball in the fairway.   This driver is really good.   You know, I think the last six months I've learned that over the week my swing gets looser and looser with the long game.   So if I can keep my long game nice and tight and keep hitting fairways, I know I'm going to hit a good.   I always wedge it good.   I always chip it good.   I all's putt it pretty solid.   So gotta maintain my driver.   Keep the ball in the fairway, make sure my long stuff is really good.

Q.   And you have a new driver?
CHRIS STROUD:   I got a new driver.   It's great.

Q.   What kind?
CHRIS STROUD:   Yeah, it's a TaylorMade Slider, SLDR S, the new one, the gray one.   And I got it all fixed up, and it's awesome.   It's actually better than the one in my game I've been playing with for eight months.   So I'm really excited about it.   I drove it great today. 
I mean I think I only hit one or two bad drives, which is really good for me.   I mean that's what I struggle with.   Hit a lot of good ones, especially under the gun and I hit an awesome shot on 17, 2 85 hole and I hit it on the green in two with my little slider, mini driver.   So really strong.   Good way to finish and see if I can shoot about three more of those. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT