CROWNE PLAZA INVITATIONAL AT COLONIAL
May 23, 2014
Chris Stroud
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Pretty strong day for you.   Just talk a little bit about conditions and what went well for you? 
CHRIS STROUD:   Well, I put a new driver and 3‑wood, it's called a Mini Driver from TaylorMade.   I put it in this week.   The Mini Driver is doing great.   My driver has been bad, so I'm going to go back to my other driver.   I've hit it terrible the last two days, really, really bad, but putted awesome.   So I don't have to worry about the greens.   I just need to get the ball on the greens.   Usually it's the opposite.   I usually hit the ball really well and struggle to get the ball in the hole. 
So it's a little different this week, obviously, but, man, it sure is nice to make putts.   I was so relaxed out there.   It's obviously a little luck.   I was making a 50‑footer, 60‑footer, making every 30‑footer, so it's nice.   But the key is every putt I hit today I hit really, really solid.   I never really hit a bad putt, so I'm really happy with that.

Q.   Is that the same putter? 
CHRIS STROUD:   It's a different putter.   It's a different putter.   It has no lines on it.   It's got a Scotty Cameron putter I picked up this week.   I've been using another, but it had a bunch of lines on it.   I simplified my putting, get over it, lineup, and try to bring the putter back square and back to the ball square at impact.   I've just been rolling it beautifully.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
CHRIS STROUD:   I don't know what it's called.   I don't even know what it's called.   Something, I don't know.

Q.   How many drivers do you have? 
CHRIS STROUD:   Well, I've got just one, but one of them is called a Mini Driver.   It's like a 2‑wood.

Q.   I mean on the holes. 
CHRIS STROUD:   Not many, three or four.   That's why I put that new one in play.   I haven't changed my driver in 8 months.   But the driver I use is anti‑left, and the only holes I'm going to use driver on you need to hit them more left than right, so I tried this driver.   It's a really great driver, but it's a little too far left.   So I'll go back and put my other one back in play. 
It's sort of an experiment.   That's what this game is.   It's a constant experiment.   It really is, and I've tried different clubs.   The 2‑wood I put in play was an experiment, and I hit it great so that worked, the driver didn't, and put it back in play.   Trying to get the combination right. 
It's a crazy game, but I think the biggest difference I've made is absolutely no expectations when I walked on the tee box.   Last month I played poorly because I got on the first tee, and my expectations are so high, and I put so much pressure on myself.   It's not fun that way.   I heard Furyk playing so good, Kuchar, all these guys.   They walk on the tee, no expectations and just try to have fun out there.   It's hard to do that. 
As much as we practice, you want to get out there and expect so much, winning all those great shots.   But you know what, you've got to practice hard and know that that's going to help you in the long run.   Just go out there, commit to every shot, and just have no expectations.

Q.   At 9, after the second shot, did they have to move some things around? 
CHRIS STROUD:   Yeah, I hit it up past the bleachers, so you need to take a drop.   The bleachers were in the way, but also the railing was in the way so we had to go even further down.   It really was a good drop, but the grass was really gnarly, so I had to hit a low runner, and I was actually pretty happy just to get it over and out of trouble because it could have been like fairway it would have been fine.   I probably could have gotten it up‑and‑down.   But with it being like that, I couldn't take the chance of hitting the tree and going in the water. 
It was just a poor drive.   I set up and put myself in a bad position.   Tried to ‑‑ I hit a pretty great shot on the second shot.   I could have laid up and had the wedge in, but I knew the back pin was going to be hard to keep the wedge on the back tier, so I thought I could slice this 5‑iron and run it up on top, but I just hit a bad shot. 
It was just a bad tee shot that put me in a bad position.   So that's what I'm going to focus on the next two days.

Q.   Free drop there? 
CHRIS STROUD:   Free drop.   It's called an immovable obstruction, so...

Q.   You drop on the cart path? 
CHRIS STROUD:   You drop on the cart path, then you take a free drop from the cart path if you choose.   So I had choices.   I could have stayed up there on top and hit it over the bleachers, I could have stayed on the cart path.   I took it all the way down, had a good lie‑‑ I mean, and had a good angle but not a very good lie.

Q.   That tree impacted? 
CHRIS STROUD:   The tree, definitely. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT