ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 26, 2012
Chris Stroud
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   6-under, 66.   Got off to a little bit of a slow start.   You can talk about the eagle at 13.   That kind of jump started your round.  
CHRIS STROUD:   You know, I put a lot of time with my wedges over the last three, four, five months and I've hit a lot of good wedges.   Even today on 11, my second hole today I hit a perfect wedge in there three feet but it backed up 20 feet of the hole. Just one of those times I hit a great little wedge and it just landed exactly where I was looking and went right in the hole.  
   
 Q.   What wedge did you hit in there?  
CHRIS STROUD:   A little sand wedge.   I was 99 yards -- 97, trying to land it 92 and I hit it exactly where I was trying to land it.   It was awesome.   
You work hard, you hope to have that happen a lot and obviously a little luck involved there but, you know, I just felt very comfortable.   After I made that 2 there, it seemed to just catapult me for the rest of the day.   
I just had a great vibe going, we were feeling good.   I got a new driver in the bag this week and I'm hitting it great.   So, feeling very good.   Just keep doing the same thing.  
And looks like this course, the scores are going to be low.   The field is so strong this week.   There's going to be a lot of good scores here.   
And I really like the finish they did on 18.   They redid that bunker.   That's really going to help the TV.   I think that's going to help the tournament and that's going to make a lot more drama on the 18, which I think is great.   So, I'm really happy with what they've done.  
   
 Q.   Just talk about the golf course this afternoon.   Obviously the wind kicked up.   Just talk about the conditions out there.  
CHRIS STROUD:   You know, my goal today was to shoot 2-under on each side, 4-under.   I shot 6.   I'm very, very happy.   I didn't think it was really possible as hard as it was blowing.   
Obviously I chipped in once, I holed out from 97 yards so I had a couple extra bonuses there but it played very difficult this afternoon and luckily my short game was -- I didn't hit many greens.   I think I hit 10, 11 greens today.   Not that I hit it bad, I just -- you know, you can miss greens pretty easily here but I think I got up and down every single time except the first hole and just played beautifully.   So, I've just got to keep doing the same thing.  
   
 Q.   Obviously you've got to like your position going into a morning round tomorrow, maybe a little wind lays down a little bit for you.  
CHRIS STROUD:   Exactly.   That was my plan, shoot 4-under today.   I did better and then got a couple extra for the morning round.   It's going to be nice, soft greens tomorrow and hopefully the wind will be down for us and see if we can play through.   It's one of my favorite tournaments of the year.   I'm very excited to play here.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT