MAYAKOBA GOLF CLASSIC
February 25, 2012
Chris Stroud
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  NELSON SILVERIO:   Welcome Chris Stroud to the interview room here at Mayakoba Golf Classic.   Chris, 10‑under par.   You're just two shots off the leading heading into Sunday.   Maybe talk about your round today and what you're looking forward to tomorrow.
CHRIS STROUD:   You know, I wasted a lot of shots today actually.   I counted five shots that I wasted and if you count the last hole in that bunker, that's six shots, but the other five are all inside a hundred yards, and for me I've been working so hard on my chipping, my wedges and my putting that you know, when I get up in that 120, 130‑yard range I'm very aggressive and I gotta go right at it and at least hit some great shots.   I really wasted a lot of shots today.   I still made a couple more birdies, but I'm not where I'd like to be, but you know, Daniel's playing very well, so I'm going to have to play very well to beat him tomorrow.
NELSON SILVERIO:   And just talk about this golf course.   We were talking about it on the way in, but what about it fits your eye.
CHRIS STROUD:   You know, this is one of my favorite golf courses on TOUR, easily Top 10, maybe Top 5 for me. 
It's one of the few courses that we play that line is more important than distance off the tee.   And you gotta be more precise than you do just bombing it.   And a lot of the courses we play today, you know, there's no hazards, there's no ‑‑ there's not much off the tee and maybe bunkers, but you can blow it 50 yards right and be okay a lot of times, and I like these type golf courses where you're penalized if you hit it 50 yards off line.   And you know, you gotta be very, very straight off the tee.   I mean look at the winners here the last few years, all those guys are very straight ball hitters and you gotta keep it in play off the tee.   And you know, I grew up on flat greens and these are pretty flat greens.   This is one of Greg Norman's best designs.   I've played a few of his.   This is my favorite of his.   He did a great job setting this course up into the trade winds. 
I love coming here, the whole feel, the tropical feel being in Cancun, it's just an awesome place, so I'll be here every year. 

Q.   How's the pressure going to be tomorrow, do you think, just two shots off the lead, paired with the leader and in the final group?
CHRIS STROUD:   You know, it's the same for me every day, seems like.   This is my sixth year on TOUR.   I've had a few opportunities to win, and it's going to be the same for me tomorrow.   I've gotta make sure I stay within myself and not get in my own way, and that seems to be the case for anybody.   I'm not going to be any more nervous tomorrow than I have been every day here.   You have to be on your toes here.   You have to hit the ball very straight.   You gotta be very in control of the ball flight and the speeds of the greens. 
So I'm looking forward to tomorrow.   I'll be playing with Daniel.   I believe he's playing very well, and it's going to be nice to be right there with him because he's going to start with the lead and I'm going to have a number in mind tomorrow and I'll be going after it. 

Q.   What impact does the wind have on ‑‑ do you think it's going to have tomorrow and what impact has it had so far this week?
CHRIS STROUD:   The wind is everything on this course.   This morning they said it didn't blow very hard, and I'm surprised the scores weren't better, but that's the defense of this course is the wind because if it's not windy, the course is pretty wide open, but if it's windy, most of your shots are into the wind or cross wind.   Sometimes you're down.   And everything the wind has huge effect on every shot, into the greens, off the tees, especially have a lot of elevated tee boxes into the wind and you better hit it really straight off the tee or you're going to be in the mangrove out there and trying to find your ball.   So the wind is the most important thing out here for sure. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT