DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 5, 2011
Chris Stroud
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   CHRIS STROUD: On 17, I made that par, I knew I was -- I bogeyed, I think, No. 15, the par-4, missed that little six-footer for par. I moved from 72 or 74 to 76, and I'm like -- I knew I had to make birdie-birdie on 17 and 18. I made par on 17, so I told Scotty from the tee, we've got to make 3 to get in. We hit a great drive. I haven't had any trouble with that drive all week. But we got up there and the pin was exactly where my ball ended up on the second round. I hit a great little hybrid on there in the second round. I told Scotty, let's hit the shame shot, and I hit the exact same shot, a little cut in there, fed off that hill, and obviously really close to going in. 
 It's nice, you've got to have some breaks in this game. Today was just a rough day all the way around. I didn't drive it well, I didn't make any putts. I made a couple putts -- I think I made a putt on 10, I thought I might get something going, struggling with the swing, and it's just nice to get of get a little pat on the back and get to Chicago.

 Q. It would be pretty easy to get down on yourself today, wouldn't it?
 CHRIS STROUD: It was frustrating. I felt pretty good going into the round, especially when the wind was up. I thought, this is my kind of golf. I love when it plays difficult like this. And Hunter did exactly what I thought I would do. He was right down the middle of the fairway, right in the middle of the greens, and he just made so many putts, and he just caught fire. I didn't want to get in his way. I was trying to feed off of him, and I just could not get anything going.
 It was a flawless round today by Hunter. He hit some great shots. But you know, like I said, I'm just happy to be there. I thought I wouldn't shoot any worse than even par today, but at least I have a chance in Chicago and hopefully I'll do some good there.

 Q. What was your yardage in?
 CHRIS STROUD: 232 hole, and I don't know if you watched, but I was back and forth between 2 and 3, 2 and 3. My caddie, Scott, said, "Dude, I think it's the 3. It's the same as the other day." I got over it with the 2, and I backed off of it and said, "Give me that 3." And it was perfect. He was right. Sometimes you've got to listen to those caddies; they know what they're talking about.

 Q. Will he get a bonus?
 CHRIS STROUD: We'll work something out, I'm sure. He's done good. No, it's just nice. After a long, lousy day and you watch Hunter play just flawless golf, it's nice to finally see that I'm not going home all empty handed, so I get to go to Chicago.

 Q. Where was it you saw yourself drop?
 CHRIS STROUD: I knew I was playing okay. Even though I made a double on the drivable par-4 this morning, I knew I was going to be all right. I was like, keep giving myself chances, see if I can make some putts, and I just could not get myself in the fairway today, and on top of that I could not get to the greens because the pins were tough to get to. I knew I was hanging in there, and then when I made that double on -- anyway, that was just tough. I knew I blew myself out there. So I needed to -- I was just being aggressive. That's why on 16, the par-3, I told Scotty, I'm going to see if I can make a hole-in-one here, see if I can rope it in there and get it close, and I hit a great shot about 15 feet, and then Hunter makes this 50-footer, and I'm just like -- I hit a good putt, and it misses. I just couldn't get anything going. 
 Like I said, 18 has been good to me today, and I really like this course. They did a great job with the setup, and I'm just happy and thankful that I have a chance in Chicago.

 Q. Did it wear you out with Hunter making putts?
 CHRIS STROUD: No, he's a great friend of mine. I was rooting for him. I'm rooting for him. The guy is a stand-up guy. I root for everything for him. He works hard at it. He's respectful, and he's just a great guy. Every time he plays well, I'm rooting for him, and I'm glad he's playing good today.

 Q. Were you tight on 17?
 CHRIS STROUD: I thought I was tighter. When I got up there it was 15 feet short -- I'm sorry, 17, that par-4? 

 Q. Yeah, when you know you need birdie-birdie finish --
 CHRIS STROUD: Wasn't tight. I was loose. I was playing so bad, I was like, you know, let's just get it in the fairway. I missed the fairway on 17, had a good lie out of the thick hay, and I hit this perfect shot, I thought, came up way short in that little slope over the bunker, hit a great chip and got up-and-down.
 Then 18, I was like, it's all or nothing here, so made 3. Did good. Did good. 

 Q. The last couple years you've been right on the cut line for the money at 125 for Disney --
 CHRIS STROUD: Yeah, I don't get warmed up until halfway through the year. I can't figure it out. I don't know if it's because I get more comfortable or I get warmed up in the heat, who knows. But I definitely played better this year. I got off to a better start. Hartford I really started playing well. I made six cuts in a row there, really played solid golf all the way through. I took a week off, missed Greensboro and then made the last two cuts here. It's just been a solid year. 
 I'm making lots of mistakes, especially this week, but I can definitely see myself winning. I've just got to keep working, just keep getting better and better and more efficient with my game and just got to get the chipping and putting more solid, more solid all the time. When you have those days you're not going to hit it good, you've got to save yourself, and I just didn't do that this week.

 Q. When you said you saw yourself drop after the double, you were looking at the boards? You were watching what you were doing?
 CHRIS STROUD: About four or five holes left after I had fallen down so far, I was curious how far I had went down because I knew I was fine all day, but after I made that double, I was like, man, we've got to be outside the number now, and that's when I started looking. Then I made another bogey on the next hole, and that's when I was like, three holes left, I've got to make birdie-birdie-birdie and maybe have a chance. And then parred 16, parred 17, and then I saw that I was 76 on 17 green, and I was like, maybe birdie will get me somewhere. We went out there and hit a great drive down there, great little 3-iron, perfect hybrid in there, three feet, eagle. It was a great way to finish. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT