THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 8, 2010
Chris Stroud
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   CHRIS STROUD: I got off to a great start. I missed a few putts early, but I hung in there, I made a great up-and-down on 3, kept it even par, and then I started making some putts, and I knew if I just kept hitting good shots -- I've been hitting the ball nicely all week. I knew if I kept giving myself some chances that the putts would start falling. And I just had to be super patient out there. 
 Patient just is not enough word for what it really is. I feel like I've just had to be incredibly patient. But the longer I keep giving myself chances, keep rolling good putts, I know the putts are going to go in. These greens are absolutely perfect, so I'm looking forward to tomorrow.

 Q. Your best man in your wedding, John. I ran into him today. He said you guys walked the course a little bit on Tuesday. Tell us about that experience and how did that help?
 CHRIS STROUD: Yeah, great friend of mine. He lives here. I lived in Sea Island, Georgia, for a couple years when I first turned pro and I was on the mini-tours, and I came down here and played a few times, but I told him to come out Tuesday and Wednesday, just kind of show me around the golf course. He gave me some great pointers, and it's been a great experience so far. 
 And like I said, I'm just very calm, I'm staying within myself this week, and I'm very happy to be in the position I am, and hopefully tomorrow end up on top.

 Q. He said you're the most positive person he's ever been around, and he said some of the guys on TOUR actually like being around you for that very reason. 
 CHRIS STROUD: You know, I don't know what it is. I just -- I believe it's a choice in the way that you live your life, and I've chosen to just be just positive about everything. You have to see positive in everything. If you're not, you're just going to fall off. 
 I feel like a lot of people, if they just viewed the world a little differently, a little more positively, they'd get a lot more out of it.

 Q. Did you see this round coming? Has your game been rounding up to this point?
 CHRIS STROUD: That's a good question. I did. The last few rounds, the last two weeks really I just have played some great golf. I just have not made enough putts, not getting the ball up-and-down enough and missing those momentum putts or momentum chips. 
 But I kept telling my wife all week and all last week, I said, I'm so close. I'm so close to playing some great golf. You know, I mean, I just very happy to be where I am and I'm just going to keep doing what I'm doing. I'm playing some very playable golf. I'm hitting the ball in the fairway, keeping it in play, giving myself a lot of chances, my putting stroke is coming around. I feel like I've got a good chance tomorrow.

 Q. Which parts of your game --
 CHRIS STROUD: Short and game and putting. I've always hit the ball decently out here, I've struggled with just scoring, getting the ball in the hole. I've really done a good job the last three weeks of getting the most out of my game that I can, and I still feel like -- I'm sure we all feel that way, but I'm just trying to maximize my score every day. No matter how I'm hitting it, just get that ball in the hole as quickly as possible. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT