RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 26, 2018
Chris Stroud
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 7-under par today, excellent start.  Can we get some comments on your round?
CHRIS STROUD: You know, all year -- I've had a tough year.  It's been a long year, one of the worst years in my 11 years out here on TOUR, so it's been tough.  You've got to hang in there.  There's a lot of good players out here.  I got hot late in the season last year and played really well, won Reno, Barracuda Championship, then got in the PGA Championship and almost won that and went all the way to third, FedExCup.  I plan on doing the same thing, just got to keep giving myself a lot of looks.  I hit the ball really nicely today.  It's been a long time.
Q. What's it like to separate where you are with the actual round in process, big picture, little picture?
CHRIS STROUD: It's a great question.  One shot at a time.  You've got to keep it really simple.  I'm working on some very simple stuff golf swing wise, and it worked.  I never hit anything left today.  I've been trying to keep the left side of the golf course off.  My misses were a little bit to the right, and then hit a lot of nice shots and made some putts today.
Q. Great day for you; that back nine was terrific, too.  You've got to be very happy.
CHRIS STROUD: Very happy.  It's been so long.  I've been talking to my caddie all year, I haven't shot anything lower than 69-68 all year long, and I was focusing on my putting so much.  I think I was putting a lot of pressure on myself.  The truth is I wasn't hitting the ball as close as I thought I was.  My misses were off the green and out of the fairway.  Today my misses were on the edge of the greens and edge of the fairways.  Hit a lot of greens and took -- really took advantage of the par-5s on the back nine and got on a roll and made four in a row the last four.  I think I shot 7-under, which is par -- I shot 31, so 6-under on the back.  So very happy with that, and it's nice to see some low scores.
Q. It's a roller coaster for you guys.  You win the Barracuda and then it goes up and down and all around.  That's professional golf, isn't it?
CHRIS STROUD: It's tough.  I had some personal stuff at home happen that I had to deal with and I had a tough six months.  I'm finally coming out of that and feeling pretty good about it.  Now it's just focusing on golf and seeing if I can make a late run in the FedEx.  It is a little bit late to get hot, but I feel pretty rested.  I'm pretty beat up.  A lot of tournaments we played this year.  I've got a bad knee, bad shoulder, but everybody is hurting.  It's like what one of my coaches always says:  Everybody quits in the 19th mile, so it's time to keep pushing.  I've got four good chances going into the FedEx to give myself a good chance to make a run in the FedEx.
Q. You're from Houston; you proudly wear the Astros hat, a wool hat.  Not a lot of golfers wear the wool hat.  That's pretty cool.
CHRIS STROUD: You know, I was a baseball player for years, and I absolutely love the Astros and Jim Crane, the owner, good friend of mine.  I love the Astros.  I've been following them all year.  I'm just trying to get the vibe from them, and I've got a Crane Safety and Astros bag that I use and I wear, and I'm just proud to have it.  I feel like as soon as I started wearing the hats, I felt like a new vibe, and it feels good.  So I'm just trying to carry -- take care spirit and just take it out on the golf course with me.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT