THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 5, 2010
Chris Stroud
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Welcome to THE PLAYERS. Can we just get your comments on playing the tournament for the first time?  
 CHRIS STROUD: First off, I feel very privileged to be here. I've worked hard for this. It's an accomplishment in itself just getting in this tournament. This is one of the hardest tournaments to get in, and this is basically the fifth major. It's one of the strongest fields I've ever played in. Very excited to play this week.   
 It's fun to play for a lot of money, but the golf course is in great shape, great fans. I used to live in Sea Island, Georgia, for a couple years when I first turned pro, so I'm very happy to be here.   
 I feel like I'm at home. I'm from the Houston area, same exact climate, hot and humid, just the way I like it. I always seem to play really well when it's really hot, so I'm just looking forward to it. It's going to be a good week. I think the weather is going to look okay for us.   
 They did a great job reviving the golf course. They were having a struggle in the growing season and didn't have a very good winter with the cold.  
 I'm just happy to be here and looking forward to a great week and see if I can bring home some hardware.  
  
  Q. Talk about your season up to this point.   
 CHRIS STROUD: Got off to a slow start, had a baby back in November so really didn't do much, didn't play until the Bob Hope and I kind of slowly started my season, got off to a slow start, and then when I started warming up, I started playing better, played well the last two weeks. I finished top 25, top 30 the last two weeks, really seeing some signs of improvement, game is coming around.  
 A big part is the putting. If you're not putting well out here, no matter how good you're hitting it, you're not going to play well. You have to putt well every week, so I'm seeing some good signs there and just working hard and ready for it to just click for me.   
  
  Q. Just comment on those last three holes here, what it would be like playing those three holes on Sunday afternoon in contention.   
 CHRIS STROUD: You know, I think a lot of it is -- this is one of the greatest finishing holes, stretches, in golf. 16 you have a chance for an eagle, and 17, one of the greatest par-3s in the world, especially in tournament play, and then 18, one of the toughest par-4s to finish on. It's just a great finish. I think many times, a lot of us pros, we imagine how we're going to play the hole, and we hope when we get out there that we can execute that. But it's exciting. It definitely is a great theater for drama.   
 You know, I hope I can be in Henrik Stenson's position like he was last year. He played those three holes beautifully, or Craig Perks, the way he finished them. That's one of the greatest finishes of all time. I'm looking forward to it. It's going to be a great week. As I said, my game is coming around. I feel pretty solid, and I hope that I can be in position to win this tournament. That would be great.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT