FRYS.COM OPEN
October 24, 2009
Chris Stroud
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Your thoughts on the day.   
 CHRIS STROUD: I hit the ball really nice. I mean, I think I hit 16 greens in regulation. Smooth day. Mentally I was solid.   
 I only had one hiccup. Got up for an eagle on 11; I blocked the drive on the right and had to take an unplayable. Had an awesome save. I chipped out. So that was a big moment for me.   
 Birdied the next hole and just played all the way in. I really -- all of us, our whole group, we didn't make as many putts as we could have.   
 You know, I'm happy again. Playing solid. Giving myself a lot of looks. That's what I hope to do tomorrow. 16, 17, 18 greens and give myself a chance to win the tournament.  
  
  Q. What will to take?  
 CHRIS STROUD: You know, honestly, what I'm thinking, I'm gonna go out there to try get to 20-under. Whatever anybody else does, whatever. If Troy shoots another 62 tomorrow and gets to 20 whatever, I can't control that.   
 You know, 20 is within my grasp. I'm playing well. Just have to do the same thing tomorrow: give myself a lot of chances and get in good spots and make some putts.   
  
  Q. Talk a little bit about when you do know all of that stuff that's going on today, Nicholas Thompson with a double eagle and an ace...   
 CHRIS STROUD: I didn't know that.  
  
  Q. Yeah, he did.   
 CHRIS STROUD: What'd he double eagle?   
  
  Q. No. 11, and then he had the ace on 13.  
 CHRIS STROUD: Wow.  
  
  Q. But when scoring conditions are so perfect, do you put a lot more pressure on yourself to keep going as low as you can?  
 CHRIS STROUD: You really can't. It's easy to do that. But this week I've been doing just the opposite. I've focused on staying within myself and staying with that shot and just pick my spot and hit it and don't worry about anything else.   
 I'm going doing a great job with that. My mind is very clear this week, I think because I know exactly what I need to do: You know, top 5 and top 3 this week and get out of here and go take care of my baby girl.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT