SENTRY TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 5, 2018
Chris Stroud
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  66 today, I thought the first shot you hit into 1, it just sort of set the tone and there you went and it was a consistent day for you.  
CHRIS STROUD: I think that's exactly right.  Today I hit a really good 3-wood off the box and didn't get it to the down slope.  Hit a really wonderful 6-iron in there, one of the best shots of the day, to about eight or nine feet and made that.  And really putted great today.  I could have made a lot of bogeys today and I put myself out of position a few times off the tee and into the green and had a lot of six and seven and eight footers for par and I made them all.  So really just a recovering type of hang in there kind of round and it just so happened to make all the right putts at the right time and had a lot of chances for birdie.   
 Q.  You made a hundred feet of putts, not just yesterday but today.  Have you found these greens to your liking and what's been the key to success for you so far through 36 holes?  
CHRIS STROUD: I grew up on really slow, grainy greens and on Bermuda greens and these are right there.  I prepared very hard the last few weeks at home.  I found some courses that have those type greens and it seemed to help.  But really the big change is yesterday after the round -- I really struggled putting coming in the back nine -- I went to work on my putting for about 20 minutes to figure it out and it worked today.   
 Q.  I'm curious about the mindset, too, I mean, you know you're going to get those FedExCup points this week, the winning opened so many opportunities, how did you approach your mindset to start the new year?  
CHRIS STROUD: Aggressive.  To be honest, I don't get to play with these players all the time.  I'm not in the TOUR Championship every year, I'm not in the Majors all the time -- hopefully that does change -- so my goal here was to be really prepared, be aggressive, and try to get to 16, 18 under after four rounds.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT