KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 28, 2018
Laetitia Beck
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Opening with a 68, what do you think were the keys for you out there on day one?
LAETITIA BECK: I kept it pretty simple.  I only missed one green that I had to chip, and I hit plenty of fairways.  And then once I was hitting the fairways, short irons to the greens, and I was hitting them pretty close.  It just felt easy today.
Q. A little bit of an up-and-down season for you so far; what do you think has been the difference coming into this week?
LAETITIA BECK: I think overall I'm playing better this year.  Just sometimes I just don't finish great, but I'm still playing better.  So just today, I didn't make any mistakes.  But I still feel I'm playing the same, just a few less mistakes, more fairways this week, which helps me.  But overall, it's about the same.
Q. You've had a lot of changes in recent weeks with your coaching team and your caddie.  Tell us about your new caddie and how he helped you out there today.
LAETITIA BECK: Yeah, so I have a new caddie for the week, the next few weeks.  I want a caddie to help me just to know the course better, especially here where it's a new week.  Often I do my own thing, but having a caddie and someone that I can communicate with about the distance, about the club, it's nice.  But usually it's not a big deal.  He was very helpful.  It's nice to have someone new on the bag.  You have more to talk about, I think.  So it was nice.
Q. You suffered an ankle injury last week; how were you feeling out there physically, and tell us kind of what happened?
LAETITIA BECK: It's still painful.  I sprained my ankle, and I was hoping that -- it happened last week, and I was hoping this week it would be okay.  Still painful walking.  I'm hitting it fine.  Maybe it distracts me from what's going on really.  I try to take breaks and I sit a lot, so people probably think I'm lazy.  It's a little painful, but hitting the ball it's okay.
Q. They say beware the injured or sick golfer.  As you head into the rest of the week here, this is kind of an unfamiliar position for you being atop a leaderboard at a major championship.  How are you feeling being in this position?
LAETITIA BECK: I haven't had that much time to think about it, but again, I just stay in the moment, try to enjoy it, stay relaxed, let it happen.  I don't try to think too much.  I just want to play well.  I want to be relaxed.  That's my main goal of the season.  Last year I was a little bit uncomfortable with the swing and a little like stressed over the ball.  So my main goal is be free, just let it happen, and yeah, that's my main goal.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT