SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
June 8, 2018
Laetitia Beck
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So looked like that was your best round maybe that you've had at this tournament before, I think, 3-under.  
LAETITIA BECK: I don't know.   
 Q.  I think so.  Based on what I could tell.  What was the difference today?  
LAETITIA BECK: You have to keep the ball in play.  Off the tee is really important.  After that it's a little easier because it's not a long course.   
So as long as you keep it in play and give yourself chances, it's a good course to score well.  Off the fairway then it makes it really hard.  For me, I really have to (indiscernible.)   
 Q.  Yeah.  Talk about the last three holes, how you were able to get a couple birdies down the stretch.  
LAETITIA BECK: On 16 it's a tough pin placement to the back, but I just hit it to -- my 9-iron.  It was an easy birdie.   
Then the next hole, par-3, short -- like a gap wedge pretty much.  I hit it close.  I mean, not a gimme, but I made a short putt for birdie.   
18 a little disappointed.  I had 200 yards to the flag and I missed an opportunity there.   
But 17 is a good birdie hole; also 18.  So I think most girls are going to score on those holes.   
 Q.  You had some good results this year so far.  How have you felt about your game and your year so far?  
LAETITIA BECK: For me it's all about my tee shots, if I can feel comfortable.  I have the distance.  I still don't utilize all my distance because I'm like bumping the shot out there.   
But if I can keep it in play, with my distance I will have short irons.  Usually the shot to the greens, I don't hit it close enough to go really low at the moment, but I hit the green -- a lot of greens.  Usually hit the fairways.   
So a lot of stable rounds, but not super low rounds, so I need to work on that.  I do want to start shooting low ones.   
 Q.  What are some of those important things that you like to work on week to week?  
LAETITIA BECK: For me the key is feel comfortable over the shots.  Last year I had an issue that over the ball I really didn't feel comfortable and I felt scared.  It just wasn't enjoyable.  I don't want stand over every single ball scared.   
This year I found few things that helped me feel a little bit more comfortable.  So that's No. 1 for me.  I feel comfortable.  Doesn't really matter how I hit the ball.  As long as I feel comfortable out there, I'm fine.   
 Q.  Did you see some people that you have known from past years or something?  
LAETITIA BECK: Yeah, my charity.  I might see some familiar faces here, because in e my club in Miami we have a lot of people from New York, New Jersey.   
So, yeah, we'll see.   
 Q.  Very cool.  What club is that?  
LAETITIA BECK: Turnberry Isle in Miami.  They're a little far away from here but, you know, yeah, like you said, throughout the years, same faces.  Jewish community, too.  That helps.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT