MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 12, 2013
Nathan Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about the conditions out there today.   
NATHAN SMITH:   We were laughing, you put all that work in and you get to tee off the first tee shot in the driving rainstorm, but it kind of let up with just conditions all over the place.   I mean, you can see it in the scores.   That back side, I've always felt if it's cold here, 55 or 60, it's really hard, and then if the wind starts humming like this, I mean, it's so tough to get the right club in your hand and hold the line on putts, the little putts.   12, what club do you hit, just the whole thing.   And the pins I thought were really tough today.   Maybe they heard Mickelson's comments yesterday.   I thought there were a couple out there that were like, wow.  
   
 Q.   Rory called them Sunday pins.   
NATHAN SMITH:   I was blown away by the pins on 5, 7, 14, 3.   I mean, wow, they brought it today.   So we weren't‑‑ I think that was in response to something.   
   
 Q.   You seemed to be having a good time anyway.   I don't know if there's any way to prepare for these conditions in Pennsylvania?  
NATHAN SMITH:   Not really, no, not off the mats into the snow.   But I'm going to soak it up at the same time.   I was trying to watch the scoreboard, guys were coming back, I'm thinking if somehow I can somehow play the last‑‑ when I made that birdie at 13, if I could somehow play the last couple maybe a couple under or something, I mean, hey, you never know.   But obviously the pin on 14, I didn't get it up over the hill with either the approach or the putt, and that was a tough pin.   But you just can't do that.   
But I had fun.   Coming up 18‑‑ 16 almost made my life.   I thought I made it.   I thought I had a hole‑in‑one.   I hit it to this far, the crowd went crazy, and at first it was back left so you can't see in the shadows, and everybody went nuts, and I thought it went in, so I'm jumping around, and of course‑‑  
   
 Q.   It ended up right next to it?  
NATHAN SMITH:   It was hanging on the lip.   
   
 Q.   What did you hit?  
NATHAN SMITH:   6‑iron.  
   
 Q.   Could you have blown it in?  
NATHAN SMITH:   I wish.   I wish.   That would have made my life.   But yeah, it's a blast.   Family is here, dad is on the bag, soaking it up.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT