MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2013
Nathan Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   We've been here before.   It's just incredible that you win the mid‑amateur year after year.   What are your goals for  this Masters?  
NATHAN SMITH:   Well, my goal was to try to make the weekend, and I'm going to stick to that.   Hopefully I can play a good one and hopefully they don't go too low today.   But it's good to be back, and got to put a score out there tomorrow.   It's tough out there.   I thought there were some tough pins out there, tough to get to.  
   
 Q.   Does this year seem different than the others or is it more of what you expected?   
NATHAN SMITH:   It's different because we were the first ones off.   There was a charge in there after going off.   I think for me it seems to settle into the round, so I kind of had to play catch‑up.   There was a buzz in the air.   Going off early, it's great for me if I can get the firm roll‑out and everything.   But it was rolling out and I hit it far enough.   
But that's probably the only difference, kind of the first ones off.  
   
 Q.   Even though there's a little bit of an age range, is there any kind of bond with the other amateurs where they come to you with your experience here?   
NATHAN SMITH:   Well, I've played with a lot of those guys.   We bond.   I don't know how much they're going to‑‑ we talk about different pins and stuff like that, maybe where the tees might be.   I guess I've played here three out of the last four or five years, so I kind of have some experience if they may ask.   But as far as that, they just go do it.   
   
 Q.   What were conditions like?   You were first off.   Anything different?   
NATHAN SMITH:   Well, it was a lot different actually than the rest of the week, and I'm sure maybe these guys will feel this afternoon.   It just seemed all week, it was 80 degrees, ball was running out and everything.   This morning being the first ones out, the dew, the fog.   It's different.   It's still probably playing pretty firm out there.   I thought the greens were soft in some spots and firm in some other ones.   
But they had some tough pins out there.   That was probably about it.   
   
 Q.   Where were you when those guys‑‑ were you on the green when they‑‑  
NATHAN SMITH:   Yeah, I was on the putting green, and I was attempting to hit putts, but I don't think I hit any.   I was just watching them.   It was special.   It was neat to soak that in.   I'm glad I did that.   I've always wanted to do that.   I've always heard the roars from over at the range.   It was kind of special to be over there and watch that, get a ringside seat.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT