SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 14, 2011
Nathan Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. 5-under, obviously your rookie year, first tournament. You've got to feel really optimistic. Just talk a little bit about the round and how you're feeling about your game. 
 NATE SMITH: Yeah, it was cool. I kind of got out there on the first tee, and during the off-season it's obviously very exciting to be qualified for the PGA TOUR this year, but it doesn't really set in I don't think until you get out there. Even warming up it was still very much similar to any other place I've played. But standing on the first tee, I was just kind of like, okay, here we go, this is the PGA TOUR, and it kind of got me going a little bit.
 Took me a little while to get going. First few holes I played okay, just kind of scrambled around, made a nice birdie putt on 9, 15-foot putt, and that got me going. 
 I got to the back nine, hit the ball really well in the middle of the fairway, on the greens and was lucky to make some putts and birdied the last. So it was a great feeling. 
 I mean, I feel like I belong out here, but you don't really expect to come out and play so well during the first event. But that being said, maybe it was just because I didn't have any time to think about it. We had the weather delays the last couple days and I went and did some spear fishing and swimming in the ocean and went up to the north shore and kind of like, oh, we're actually playing golf today? I didn't really have time to think about it. So it was awesome.

 Q. Just a couple comments, brief history of how you wound up out here, a little bit of history of Nate Smith. 
 NATE SMITH: Yeah, well, I graduated from Duke University in 2006, played on the Hooters Tour, and then I went and played over in Europe two years ago, both the European and the Challenge Tour, traveled around and lived over there. It was a great experience for somebody with no responsibilities, no kids, anything like that. And then I came over and played the Nationwide last year, barely missed out on my card at the Tour Championship and was able to get through Q-school so kind of found myself here. 
 I feel very well prepared for life on TOUR and what's going to come at me just because I've kind of been through so much. There was a lot of points where it could have been easy to turn back. But I decided this was what I wanted to do. It's my dream, and it's exciting to be in the middle of it. 

 Q. The 5-under today, you said that you were not really expecting that. But does that change how you're going to -- your mindset tonight, and you're obviously playing late tomorrow. Have you always been somebody that's just been able to roll with what you've got?
 NATE SMITH: Yeah, I mean, Q-school is the worst because you're sitting there and you have five, six nights or whatever, and if you count the two practice days, eight nights to think about everything. It's the longest week ever, and it's not even really the time on the golf course, it's the time away. I'm lucky enough to be sharing a house with some other guys this week, and we'll go fishing, and I won't really be too concerned about it. It doesn't really change what's going to happen. 
 Tomorrow I'm going to go out and try to play one shot at a time. Obviously that's very cliché, but the same attitude. I won't be dwelling on it this evening and thinking about getting ahead. I've been in enough experiences so far where I've had success and I've looked forward too soon where I know that I'm going to try and stay away from that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT