WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 19, 2007
Andy Bare
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Kind of a rough start but a great finish.  Best tournament?   
 ANDY BARE:  Yeah, it was.  Get a couple better.  But, yeah, rough start.  I guess a little nerves in there but it felt good on the second tee and got that out of way and then was able to hang in there.   
  
  Q.  Describe your feelings on the first tee shot.   
 ANDY BARE:  You know, I just didn't put a very aggressive swing on it and that, unfortunately, lead to a double bogey right off the gate which is never good.   
  
  Q.  What did you learn these last four days and how do you feel now compared to Thursday before you teed up until right now, confidence and yeah, I can do this?   
 ANDY BARE:  Yeah, I've had a lot of people say this is where I belong and where I should be playing and, you know, it probably hasn't sunk in yet but I think I proved to myself that I can play with these guys, definitely.   
  
  Q.  Where do nerves come into play or after awhile do they --   
 ANDY BARE:  Yeah, they do.  I think if you're wanting them to get involved, then they will.  If you try to, you know, just focus on the shot and just a walk in the park, you can deal with it, but once you get out there going, the second, third hole normally you're pretty good.   
  
  Q.  Tough to go back?   
 ANDY BARE:  Probably.   
  
  Q.  What are your plans now?   
 ANDY BARE:  I'm going to do some Nationwide events, Idaho, California, Oregon, Utah, Q-School in late October.   
  
  Q.  How different of a world is it out here this week as opposed to other things?  Can you just put it into words?   
 ANDY BARE:  They treat you well.  It's just a bigger atmosphere but it's still the same game and if you can keep that in perspective, like I think I did pretty well this week, then you'll do alright.   
  
  Q.  What kind of car do you have?   
 ANDY BARE:  GMC Yukon.   
  
  Q.  What year is it?   
 ANDY BARE:  2005.   
  
  Q.  Now an '07 Cadillac?   
 ANDY BARE:  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  How fast did you get it?   
 ANDY BARE:  I don't know.  It's got a lot of power, I know that.   
  
  Q.  You've had such a week, can you picture your life out here?   
 ANDY BARE:  Yeah, I can.  I've thought about it before and now I've been through it once and actually twice, played in the Open, played terrible but playing well this week.  It would be something I can get used to, you know what I mean?   
  
  Q.  Appreciate it.   
 ANDY BARE:  Thanks.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT