WEATHERTECH SPORTSCAR CHAMPIONSHIP: ROLEX 24 AT DAYTONA
January 31, 2016
Ryan Dalziel
Marc Goossens
Ryan Hunter-Reay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: We'll continue with our third place team today in the Rolex 24. We're joined on stage by Ryan Hunter‑Reay, Ryan Dalziel, and Mars Goossens, drivers of the VisitFlorida Corvette Daytona Prototype. 
Ryan, it was almost a strong battle of attrition out there today. Ryan Hunter‑Reay, yes. It was a strong battle out there today in the prototype class. Can you describe what it was like, just the fight for survival to stay out there? 
RYAN HUNTER‑REAY: Yeah, first of all, it's great to be with this team. These guys are friends of mine off the racetrack. They're great teammates. Couldn't ask for a better team to be teamed up with. It's great to be back at Daytona, and we had some balance issues that we've been working through, some grip issues. We never quite got a handle on it. So we had our hands full today. I think we salvaged a result out of it, and we're looking forward to the future. 
But, yeah, it was tough out there. You just had to keep your nose clean, and especially for us, it was just so tough to put the power down.
THE MODERATOR: Ryan, you're no stranger to this form of racing and this race itself. What was the biggest challenge that you faced today? 
RYAN DALZIEL: I think, yeah, like Ryan said, we had a rough month in general. We had three new guys into a team. None of us had driven a Corvette and never driven for this team. So a lot of time a new guys comes into a team, and it's kind of plug and play, and you deal with what you're left with or what the other guys like. 
We didn't have that. We all came in. We all liked something similar. It wasn't what we had with the VisitFlorida car and unfortunately weather, as everybody knows, was not on our sides and we just kind of ran out of time to get the car dialled in. But we made some pretty significant changes in pit lane in the first six, seven hours, which was a plan. We had planned to make certain changes had we needed to under yellow. I think it was the right direction. 
But we never really had the pace, for sure, of the 10 car. I think at times through the night we could run with them. But for us, it was just a matter of keeping on the lead lap, hoping for some attrition with the guys in front. I think for our first race and with the conditions we were dealt, a third place almost feels like a victory for us. 
THE MODERATOR: Marc, are you equally as satisfied with the third place finish? 
MARC GOOSSENS: Yeah, for sure. Because I think to what Ryan "Diesel" as we call him now, was saying, our issues started at the roar. We had quite some mechanical issues with the car, gear box issues. So we lost a lot of track time then. So with the weather that we had this week, we had very limited running time trying to make the car better. So we knew before the start of the race that we didn't have the greatest car in the field. 
Like the boys were saying, there were some other guys, maybe the GTD guys, I can't remember, but somebody was saying a lot of guys that were in contention for a win took themselves out. 
I think we hit our marks all the time. The team did as well. We kept working on the car during the entire 24 Hours. So like these guys are saying, coming away with a third place is pretty strong for the championship at this point. 
RYAN HUNTER‑REAY: It's the team's best finish here too, so that's a good thing.

Q. Ryan, normally your program is open‑wheel racing. IndyCar you've raced here quite often. Nevertheless, can you describe how different such a DP car to your normal open‑wheel IndyCar? 
RYAN HUNTER‑REAY: It's a lot different. That's why I love coming here. I love changing up driving styles. It makes me think about my driving style and how I can change, and ever evolving as a racing driver. So that's why I love doing it, especially with a group like this. So it's definitely something I look to do a lot in the future as well.

Q. Ryan, as far as wins mean everything to you guys, that's always the case. But talk a little bit about that smile you're going to take into St. Petersburg next month? 
RYAN HUNTER‑REAY: Yeah, well, I hope so. We're busy at work on the IndyCar side of it. I'm actually testing at Sebring all day tomorrow, so I've got to get some rest and head over there. I'll be a little sore tomorrow. 
But it's something that we're really focused on. We were just in the early stages of testing. We've got a lot to do. So I really can't tell you how we're going to look there, but I think we'll be stronger than we were last year. 
RYAN DALZIEL: We'll be thinking of you tonight at the bar. 
RYAN HUNTER‑REAY: Thanks, man.

Q. It's been a while since you've had the chance to run for this race here, the Rolex 24. Give us your thoughts, please. 
MARC GOOSSENS: Well, I've been here quite often. But, yeah, the last couple of years was always in the GT class, so you kind of forget how intense the DPs are, especially like you were saying, with the car that's not a hundred percent. It's actually requiring even more work. 
But, again, the good thing is we know we have a good group of people, all professionals, all fits of‑‑ we thought it was a big advantage to do this race between the three of us. And like Ryan is saying, I think we all feel a little sore right now, but we're working on this program and we'll be back stronger next time. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT