adidas International
January 7, 2003
Tatiana Panova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  First question, please.  
 
 
Q.  How much did the wind have to do with the result today?
 
TATIANA PANOVA:  It was helping me a lot because she's actually, she's a hitter so she can't used to  -- and she, last two matches, I was losing her so easily.  So she was killing me.  This time, I don't think she's in a good shape now.  But, yeah, she doesn't play that well  - many double-faults, errors.  Maybe because the wind, it's so hard for her as well.  I play one match, so three sets already.  You know, I already used to it a little, so it was a little bit easy for me.  So that wasn't my side today. 
 
Q.  What about the game in general?  How do you think everything went from your personal playing level?
 
TATIANA PANOVA:  Actually, I did what I can.  Just my serve was not good enough.  So even if I have more good serve, even first serve in, so many double-faults.  So, I mean, I was winning much easy than 6-4 in the third.  And then, yeah, I lead first set 4-2, I lead second set 4-2.  I have all my game.  I can't finish first set.  Actually should be finish in two sets.  I mean, I didn't have to have third set.  I have to win in the two sets, because I always was ahead.  
 
Q.  You mentioned that you had the chance to play before, so the heat wasn't that big a factor.  How hot is it in the stadium?  There's been a lot of talk about the heat this week.
 
TATIANA PANOVA:  About what?  
 
Q.  How bad is the heat?
 
TATIANA PANOVA:  I mean, it was hot.  First match was more hotter than today.  Yeah, it's hot right now. 
 
Q.  Is that going to play into the player's hands as the week goes on?  How quickly do you get over a game like that? 
 
TATIANA PANOVA:  I don't know.  I can't understand your question, sorry.  
 
Q.  How long does it take you to recover from that heat?
 
TATIANA PANOVA:  I'm already okay (laughing).  So two matches that long, so I already used to the heat. 
 
Q.  Do you think Jennifer might have been better served by having a match in the first round to warm up for it?
 
TATIANA PANOVA:  Yeah, that's good for her.  She's warm up, she has three sets.  So she plays, she knows already, she used to the surface, and she get better on the Australian Open, I hope. 
 
Q.  How do you rate that, on a personal level for you? 
 
TATIANA PANOVA:  Win or...?  
 
Q.  The win, the victory. 
 
TATIANA PANOVA:  Right.  Yeah, it give me some confident and it give me something that I can think about that I can moving in my ranking more, yeah.  It just give me confident to look for the coach, because I need one, and I can be better to have somebody.  
 
Q.  Is that the biggest win that you've had, biggest victory?
 
TATIANA PANOVA:  That's right.  I had actually Top 10 was Dokic in the indoor, the last tournament in Filderstadt.  So this is the second win, Top 10.  
 
Q.  Did that help you when you served for the match?  You served twice.  In the third set, were nerves a factor?
 
TATIANA PANOVA:  Yeah, it was a little, but my serve was not good enough.  I didn't hit strong, so I just  -- even hard, because windy.  So you just have to put in it.  
 
Q.  While you were on the court, do you think the crowd were favoring one player over the other, or did you feel some support there as well?
 
TATIANA PANOVA:  Yeah, was some support, some Russians.  First match was the flag, and so many Russians was sitting so I was really enjoy that, that somebody coming and support myself.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT