OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 10, 2015
Paige Spiranac
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Thoughts on your play?  
PAIGE SPIRANAC: I think a bar of soap could have played better.  It was just a tough week for me.  A lot of stress.   
 Q.  But there must be a lot of positives that you take from it?  
PAIGE SPIRANAC: Yeah, just getting experience and knowing that I can do this.   
 Q.  You didn't hit 80.  You did really well.  
PAIGE SPIRANAC: I'm sorry, it's just been a long week (crying).   
 Q.  If you look back on the week, the experience that you've had here in Dubai, are you glad you came here?  Do you think you're going to be a better golfer?  
PAIGE SPIRANAC: Yeah, for sure.  It was a great learning experience for me.  I'm going to take a lot from it.  It's just I think I'm upset because it's been a lot of stress on me and it's a lot of pressure.   
I feel like I was invited here and I wanted to prove that it was for other reasons than just my social media.  Hopefully other people know about this tournament and watch this tournament and I hope they watch the next two days and watch the leaders and know how amazing these players are.   
 Q.  Do you think this will inspire you to go onto better things in the future, or are you going to give up golf?  
PAIGE SPIRANAC: At the moment, clubs are going in the water.  But I think I'm going to, I learned a lot this week and I grew a lot as a person.  I think I'm going to go back home and kind of re-evaluate everything and see if golf is still in my future or not.   
 Q.  You're obviously going to be a lot better for this tournament; everyone has to get a first tournament out of the way.   Once the dust settles, what would be the positives for you?  It's a lot of change.  You've come to a new country for the first time.  
PAIGE SPIRANAC: Yeah, like I said, I grew a lot as a person.  It took a lot to come out here and go to a new country for the first time and play my first professional event with all of these people just looking at me and staring at me and wondering how I was going to do.  I'm definitely going to not look at my phone for awhile.  Probably take a break from social media just to kind of, like I said, step away and kind of re-evaluate everything.   
But I learned a lot and I'm really grateful for this experience.   
 Q.  Your caddie said afterwards that you have an amazing fighting spirit and you focus on everything and you try to give it your all.  That must bode well for the future.  
PAIGE SPIRANAC: Yeah, my parents raised me well and they told me to fight for everything, and I think I did that this week, so I'm proud of coming out here and getting through this and I'll definitely carry this with me for the rest of my life.   
 Q.  You said about the nerves on Tuesday -- was last night a little better for you as you prepared for this round?  
PAIGE SPIRANAC: Well, I got like maybe three hours of sleep instead of 30 minutes.  Haven't really been sleeping this week.  Like I said, a lot of pressure on me.  A lot of it was self-induced, as well.  I worked really hard and I wanted to play well, and this isn't how I play or how I've been playing.  So it's frustrating and very disappointing.  Hopefully I can learn from this and grow as a person.   
 Q.  A lot of the stuff that you've done away from the course this week, I know there's been a lot of focus on the golf understandably, what's been the highlight and what have you enjoyed around Dubai?  
PAIGE SPIRANAC: I haven't really seen too much of Dubai yet.  Luckily I have a couple days now to do that.  So I'll try to take a positive away from that.   
We went on a sea plane this morning which was pretty cool, so I saw Dubai from kind of like a bird's eye view which is awesome.  There's so much that Dubai has to offer, and I'm just lucky enough to be here and experience it for the first time.  I'm excited for the next couple days to kind of explore a little bit and have some fun.   
 Q.  Do you think we might see you again on the LET?  Or will you just go back and like you said, re-evaluate?  
PAIGE SPIRANAC: I'm going to re-evaluate everything.  I wanted to before all of this, but I'm just not sure if I have it in me or if I'm cut out for this.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT