OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 9, 2015
Paige Spiranac
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Thoughts on the day?
PAIGE SPIRANAC: I guess okay.  So last night, I was like in my room, kind of locked the door and I was like, I'm not going to play tomorrow, they can't make me.  I was crying and I didn't want to go.  So I guess today was pretty good compared to how bad I thought it was going to go after last night.
Q. Got off to a steady start, six pars?
PAIGE SPIRANAC: It was funny, my first drive, I was so nervous.  My hands were shaking.  I couldn't even like think straight and I just snap hook it like 20 yards and I end up making par, which kind of steadied my nerves a little bit.  It was a pretty good round except for the shot on the last hole where I hit in the water.
Yeah, I'm pretty happy with how it went for my first round and how nervous I was.
Q. You must be glad to have it out of the way?
PAIGE SPIRANAC: I'm so glad to have it out of the way.  I've been, I wouldn't say dreading this, but I've been nervous and thinking about this and anxious about this for the last couple months now.  So to have it kind of over, it's a relief and I'm really excited to play tomorrow.
Q. What about the first birdie as a professional golfer?
PAIGE SPIRANAC: Yeah, it felt really great.  It was on the par 3.  There was water.  So it felt good to commit to it and hit a good shot and make my first birdie.
Q. What about the short game, you were looking forward to really performing with your short game, but from what we have heard is that you were driving the ball pretty well, much better than your short game.  Was that the case?
PAIGE SPIRANAC: Yeah, my short game saved me the first couple holes because I was so nervous, so I couldn't even like swing properly or anything.  My backswing was so short; I was barely swinging through it.  So my short game definitely kept me in it through the first part of it.
Towards the end, I started to get my rhythm back and started to hit some pretty good shots.  Hopefully I can carry that over to tomorrow.
Q. How would you rate your first round in a professional tournament?
PAIGE SPIRANAC: Score, it wasn't very good, but considering everything, I would consider it like an eight just for how actually nervous I was and how bad last night was.  So to get over that was pretty good.
Q. The highlight of the day for you?
PAIGE SPIRANAC: I think it was making par on the first hole after my drive that was just so bad.  I ended up making like a 15 footer.  It was good to relax a little bit and I could breathe, kind of carry on a little bit with my day.
Q. You said you were looking forward to tomorrow.  What will you learn from today that you can take into tomorrow to hopefully be a little bit calmer?
PAIGE SPIRANAC: I just hope I won't be sick hopefully the entire front nine.  Like I said, I've been working really, really hard and I didn't really play my best today obviously with the score.  But I just want to be able to like let all the nerves go and just play how I know I'm capable of playing.
Q. Finally for me, your message to your Instagram followers?
PAIGE SPIRANAC: Please be nice to me.  I know 77 is not the best score, but I broke 80, and I know people were putting bets on it last night.  They were saying I wasn't going to, so at least I got that going for me.  Just being nice, 77.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT