U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2014
Lee McCoy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  You gave it a whirl, trying to get the medal by yourself, but that putt there at the end just curled away.  LEE McCOY: It couldn't have been any closer.  I had no idea where I was.  I just had a feeling I needed one more, even one on 17 probably should have dropped.  I was leaning pretty hard. But you know, that being said, I made a couple putts I probably shouldn't have today, and you know, I holed a bunker shot on 4 and made birdie on 2 from like 260 up there in the tree.  I had some stuff that went my way that probably shouldn't have, so I can't complain.  I'm just so happy to be in this situation.   Q.  And the fact that you did become the medalist, that's got to be a great feeling for you.  LEE McCOY: Oh, it's unbelievable.  I couldn't be any happier.  Well, I guess I could be.  I'd like to be holding the trophy at the end of the week but that being said, it is a long week.  It's great to be a high seed going into the weekend, but you know, main goal is still in check.  Still trying to get that trophy.   Q.  Birdie at 6 and 7, and how much did you miss by on 8?  LEE McCOY: You talking about 17, 18?  Either one of them could have dropped.  They were both just dying at the hole and I was begging.  But couldn't get it to fall.  But like I said, I couldn't be any happier.  I can't complain about anything today.  I definitely got my share of breaks.   Q.  How about the fact that you're doing this so close to home.  LEE McCOY: Oh, it's awesome.  I've got so many "Go Dogs" out there on the golf course today it was unbelievable.  Didn't hear any "Go Jackets" from anybody, so that was good. It's awesome to be so close to home, and I've got plenty of friends and family out here to support me this week.   Q.  Have you played here before?  LEE McCOY: I played here about two weeks ago.  Got out and saw it.  This is actually the first time I've ever played this golf course completely.  I had never seen the back nine before today because I had like a 20-hour lay over in Chicago flying back from the Canadian Am and I couldn't even get myself to play when I got here, I was so tired.  So I just kind of saved it for today. Luckily it's pretty much straightforward.  There's nothing too quirky.  It's a great golf course.  Everything is pretty much right in front of you, so I didn't have too hard of a time.   Q.  How does your mentality change now going into match play?  Does it change at all?  LEE McCOY: It doesn't.  Don't do anything dumb.  Make birdie when you can.  The goal is the same now as it was at the beginning of the week.  Like I said, I want to be holding that trophy and playing in the Masters and the U.S. Open next year. Unfortunately that doesn't do it for me but it gets me a step closer.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT