U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 11, 2014
Lee McCoy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  LEE McCOY: I shot 1-under on the front.  I didn't have any bogies.  I shot 1-under on the front nine.  I birdied 10, 11, 13, and 15, I want to say.  No, was that 6?  I birdied 10, 11, yeah.  Yeah, that's right.Q. And the long birdie putts you mentioned, what were they?LEE McCOY: I hit a terrible tee shot on 11, the par-3 with water, and I absolutely chunked the crap out of it and got lucky ended up on the front of the green.  Me and my caddie we agreed on the same read and I felt good over it.  It was probably 50 feet right in the middle, perfect speed.  Stuff like that just kind of keeps your round going. The biggest momentum swing for me today was I had about a 15-foot par putt on 9.  I hit a terrible second shot into the left bunker and got a good read there and put it right in the middle, and that kind of kept me going.  That was a big point for me today.Q. With the poor feeling you had in the warm-up, was it only with the driver or was it with everything?LEE McCOY: I felt okay with the short clubs.  I just felt a little quick, just couldn't really tell where my hands were.  But I remembered something on the first tee today and got my hands in a good position going back to where I could just take a good swing at it.  I hit some great iron shots today.  Everything, 7-iron and under I was going right at the flag without a care in the world.  It was fun.Q. What would it mean for a Georgia guy to come in here?LEE McCOY: It would be huge.  It would be huge.  I'm just happy to see a Georgia guy win and not a Georgia Tech guy win.  There are too many Yellow Jackets around here.  It drives me crazy.  But, yeah, it would be huge to win in the home state.  It would be huge to win anywhere.  But if I go a long ways this week or even tomorrow maybe I might have some hometown guys out here watching me, so that extra support always helps.Q. Might get a few "Go Dogs"?LEE McCOY: Yeah, just a couple.  I heard a couple "Go Dogs" out there, and that made my day.Q. What would be your mindset going into today and the qualifying process overall?LEE McCOY: Qualifying process overall it changed this morning.  I was talking to those guys when I got to the range and I was hitting it every which way.  I started thinking let's just go get it in play and see if I can make some putts here and there.  Once I started hitting it okay, everything kind of changed.  I was like, you know what?  I can win this thing.  I started firing at some flags and fortunately it worked out for me today.Q. How many times have you played in USGA events?LEE McCOY: I played in two U.S. Juniors and this is my first U.S. Am I've tried to qualify several times.  I tried to qualify for the Open several times, but no luck.  It's awesome to be here, especially in my home state, it's a big honor.Q. What is the difference between playing in a U.S. Amateur and any other event?LEE McCOY: It's huge.  It's 312 guys.  It's a huge field.  Most of it is college guys, and it's the best college guys because you've got the top 50 on the World Amateur rankings are here and that is a huge statement.  This is the only amateur tournament in the world where you have the top 50 straight down the list that are all here, but the competition is pretty intense.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT