THE WALKER CUP
September 12, 2015
Scott Harvey
Lee McCoy
John Miller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MIKE WOODCOCK: We'll make a start. We are joined by the US a captain, Spider Miller, and Lee McCoy and Scott Harvey.  
Spider, I would say a challenging day today, but a two-point deficit. How did you feel it went today and what are your thoughts looking out to tomorrow?  
SPIDER MILLER: Well, if I start from the beginning in the foursomes, I was hoping we would do maybe one point better; obviously three points better.  
Given our start, I'm pleased where we are at this point after one day's play. Our guys played hard. They reached down; they delivered on some matches when they needed to, so I'm very proud of them all, yeah. A lot of golf going tomorrow.  
   
 Q. As you say that, a lot of golf tomorrow, is that what you're going to be preaching to your players tomorrow as they are 2-down?  
SPIDER MILLER: I haven't preached a whole lot to them. I was an alter boy for five years, so I will tell you that.  
But yeah, I've told them that we know where we are. It's obvious what we need to do. We need to reach down and play our best. We didn't make some putts we would have liked to have made, and hopefully we'll make them tomorrow.  
   
 Q. You're 3-1 in the foursomes. I know that you probably haven't handed in your pairings yet for tomorrow --  
SPIDER MILLER: I have handed them in. I had to do that before I came over here and see you guys.  
   
 Q. So can you tell us what your pairings are for tomorrow in the foursomes and how much did you change, and did it have anything to do with what happened this afternoon?  
SPIDER MILLER: I won't tell you who and what exactly I'm doing. I will tell you that I have made some changes, and it wasn't necessitated necessarily by my displeasure with the way everybody played. It was more necessitated by my desire to live up to the word I had given players before they were even selected.  
I said the math works that six players will play three times, four players will play four times. I'm not going to only play a player two times. So given my math requirements, yeah, I made a few changes and that's the way it will end up.  
I'm happy with it, and I think you guys agree, are you happy?  
LEE McCOY: Yeah.  
SCOTT HARVEY: Yeah, everything you've done so far has been great.  
SPIDER MILLER: So there you have it.  
   
 Q. How do you feel about the fact that you're only two points behind going into tomorrow?  
LEE McCOY: Obviously I was out there watching this afternoon, and I've got to say, I was a lot more nervous watching than I was playing this morning. I've got a lot more respect for what my parents go through watching me play. It's absolutely terrifying being out there and not having a club in your hand.  
But while I was out there watching and keeping with the scores really closely, it could have ended up a lot worse than what it did. We were down, I think halfway through the second 18, we were down pretty good and I saw a lot of guys dig deep and fight back, and I was really proud of what I saw.  
SCOTT HARVEY: Yeah, I agree with Lee. While I watched the morning matches, it's certainly a lot tougher to watch sometimes than it is to play.  
But when I was out there playing, looking at the scored board, there was a lot of blue, and I realised the importance of every point, every point is really important. There's 14 available tomorrow, so being down two is really not that much in the big scheme of things.  
   
 Q. If you could pinpoint at all this afternoon where you thought things might have changed the momentum for your team, where would it have been?  
SPIDER MILLER: Well, I tried to follow with -- well, yesterday, I drove a cart and today it was more of a pain in the rear to have that cart and walk. So today I walked the front nine trying to keep up.  
But it seemed as I received the scores in on my little box here, it seemed as if the momentum kind of went in waves. I would hear with my ear that we would win a hole, we would win a hole, we would win a hole. And then it came back that we would lose a hole, lose a hole, lose a hole. It was very much a seesaw battle.  
And since I jumped around, I didn't focus in on one match. I saw a little bit of most every match. It was exciting. It had to be great if you just followed one match. Robby Shelton's match, I thought, well, that's going our way, it's good. Next thing I know, it's even, next thing you know, he's 1-down and he's back to 1-up, a great seesaw battle.  
Jordan Niebrugge's was not necessarily that way, but Bryson's match, I didn't necessarily get to see that much of Bryson's match, but I don't think anyone was ever more than 1-down. You guys would know better than I, because all I have is my earpiece.  
   
 Q. 3-down, yeah.  
SPIDER MILLER: There was some great matches, and I was proud of our boys, because there were points where it didn't look that good for us. And to come back and be 2-down, I'm pleased with their performance.  
   
 Q. Is there anything that you can see when you look back over the day's play that made the difference?  
SPIDER MILLER: I think starting out, our boys were a little short with their putting. And obviously it rained overnight, and we tended to leave some putts short. Would you guys agree with that?  
SCOTT HARVEY: The wind changed. We played the golf course almost the total opposite than it played today. It was almost re-learning the course, don't you think, Lee?  
LEE McCOY: Yeah, one thing I found really interesting, the prevailing wind is you play 1 through 3, and then 5, 6, 7 downwind, which are some of the longer, more difficult holes. And we played them the last three days and this morning dead into the wind where we hitting hybrids and 3-woods into most of those holes, which is brutal.  
And then I got onto -- I think when I was playing, I was third off, and I think I was on No. 8, and the wind turned completely around. And then I turned around and played the whole back nine dead into the wind. But at the end of the day, I'm playing the same golf course as the guys next to me.  
But the one thing that I really noticed about the golf course today was the greens were significantly slower in the morning. I mean, I know they single-cut them and didn't roll them this morning after a hard night's rain. I mean, they were at least -- and they were much softer. There were balls actually backing up on the first six, seven holes this morning which is something I had not seen. I haven't fixed a pitchmark all week before today. It was a little bit of an adjustment.  
SPIDER MILLER: What's fair for one's fair for all.  
   
 Q. Changing wind --  
LEE McCOY: It's different and we have been lucky to be here now for over a week. We've had a lot of time on it and we've played this golf course now in every wind you can imagine. So it's nice to feel a little bit more comfortable. We are definitely I think a little bit more ready for tomorrow than we would have been if we would have come over two days early. It's different golf, for sure.  
   
 Q. We didn't get a chance to talk to you after the pairings came out yesterday, but two questions. One, who is the guy that was chomping at the bit to go out first?  
SPIDER MILLER: Hunter was yesterday. He went off first.  
   
 Q. And secondly, some of us were a bit surprised that the U.S. Amateur and NCAA Champion didn't play this morning. Can you explain why?  
SPIDER MILLER: I can. Bryson has had some issues with his neck, and him and I both felt that it was better that he sat out. Like I've said all along, it is a team event. And it was good, he played good afternoon. He just had trouble. We've had someone massage his neck or manipulate his neck every day the last five days, Bryson, someone at the hotel, a chiropractor or a masseuse at the beginning.  
He says he's fine now and I take him at his word, and when he told me yesterday he felt it best if he sit out, I took him at his word for that, and what's that I did. Yeah, that was not in the plan.  
   
 Q. In your system, Bryson would play two tomorrow; is that the plan?  
SPIDER MILLER: In my system, Bryson will, yes, because he told me he was -- yes, and he wants to play two. The only way someone wouldn't play three times is if they convinced me that physically it was not the right thing for them to do. But he says he feels fine, he's raring to go and he can't wait to play two tomorrow, and he will.  
MIKE WOODCOCK: Spider, Lee, Scott, thank you for joining us. Best of luck tomorrow.  
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT