U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 18, 2015
Lee McCoy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You finished today at 4-under for 36 holes, and like you said, you've got a starting time tomorrow.  That's got to be gratifying.  
LEE McCOY: Yeah, I mean, there was two goals today.  It would have meant a lot to me to medal, but as long as I have a tee time tomorrow, I'm a happy guy.  There were 64 winners today, and like I said, I'm just happy to be one of them.  Nobody has an advantage over anybody going into tomorrow.  I mean, last year I was the No. 1 seed and drew the 64 seed, Nathan Smith.  You never know what you're going to get.  It's a box of chocolates.  As long as I'm here tomorrow, I'm a happy guy.   
 Q.  How about your play today?  Give me a little assessment.  
LEE McCOY: Honestly, it was a lot more solid than yesterday.  I just burned a lot of edges, gave a couple away, but ball-striking was phenomenal today, hit a lot of good putts that didn't go in.  I obviously played a little bit of a tougher course in the afternoon, but I could have easily shot 4-, 5-, 6-under today.  It just wasn't the day.   
 Q.  So what do you owe Beau's instructor now?  
LEE McCOY: A good handshake, considering I'm in college and I've got nothing.  But yeah, I mean, that was a lucky break to meet up with him, and it really paid off today.  I hit a lot of shots that started right where I was looking, and that's how you build confidence.   
 Q.  Did your Walker Cup selection make coming into this easier for you?  
LEE McCOY: I can tell you that I'm glad I'm in my shoes and not one of those guys that's right on the bubble.  It's certainly a weight off of my shoulders, and I mean, that's been my biggest goal.  I've said it a bazillion times.  It's been my goal the last couple years is to get on that team, and there's nobody more excited than I am to go play on the Walker Cup team.  It was nice coming into the week knowing that I was going to have another great tee time in a couple weeks.   
 Q.  So now going to the match play portion hopefully tomorrow --  
LEE McCOY: Hopefully.   
 Q.  Do you feel like you've got a red X painted on your back because you are a Walker Cup guy and there's a little bit more in somebody's belly to take somebody down?  
LEE McCOY: I hope so.  I do.  Having an X on your back is something that you work for, and I would be very happy to look at a guy tomorrow on the first tee and know that he thought that I was a really good player, and maybe that'll make him a little nervous, you never know.  But at the end of the day, I'm confident in the player that I am, and whoever I get, I'm going to give it everything I've got.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT