U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2015
Lee McCoy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Nothing special on the first side, but then the back side you got it going.  
LEE McCOY: I'll tell you, the front nine was more special than the back.  I hit two greens and two fairways, and I was hitting it about as crooked as I ever have, and honestly it was one of the best scoring nines I've ever had.  I left a shot in a bunker on 1 and got up-and-down for bogey, and then, I mean, I was hitting it everywhere and just scraping pars like I've hardly ever done before.  That was really what kept my momentum going.  If I would have shot 3- or 4-over on the front I don't think I would have gone and made as many birdies on the back.  It was definitely a good mental test today.   
 Q.  What adjustment did you make?  I heard you talk about a little bit of a --  
LEE McCOY: A little swing adjustment that I got actually from Beau Hossler's coach yesterday that was out here, and I was just -- man, I hit it so bad yesterday.  If I would have played yesterday, if I would have counted instead of just playing a practice round, I probably would have shot 79.  I hit it so bad.  And I went to Hossler's coach, who I met before, and I knew that he had kind of watched me swing a little bit, and I asked him to just take a quick look, and he said, I don't even need to look, I can tell you, because he was watching me on the range that morning, and he had videotaped some of my swings at Chambers and was showing them to some of his students back at home and saw something on the range when I was warming up and didn't want to say anything unsolicited.   
But he told me, I know exactly what you're doing, go to the range and do this.  I got away from it a little bit on the front nine and kind of dialed myself back in on the back.   
Yeah, I'm really lucky I ran into Beau's coach.  That really helped me.   
 Q.  Tell me about the birdies at 12 and 13.  
LEE McCOY: Well, don't forget about the birdie at 10.   
 Q.  I didn't forget.  
LEE McCOY: I wonder what the Vegas odds would have been on me birdieing 10 and 12 today.  Slim.  10 and 12 are arguably two of the hardest holes out there and certainly the two hardest on the back nine.  You've got a 500-yard par-4 that's supposed to be a par-5 uphill into the wind with a tough pin and made a bomb there, and then hit it to a foot on 12, first good swing of the day.  Everything just seemed of kind of go right today, considering what I had swing-wise.  I wasn't hitting it real close very often.  I wasn't hitting a lot of shots that started right online, but I scored really well.   
 Q.  You've been in this position before.  Are you one of those guys who puts the foot on the pedal or are you just going to kind of cruise along and get into match play?  
LEE McCOY: Well, winning the co-medal last year was something that meant a lot to me, you know.  I can't exactly call myself a USGA champion, but I won the half that nobody cares about.  But it still meant a lot to me, just to be able to stand on the stage at a USGA event.  I'm going to have tougher conditions tomorrow.  I'm going to be playing the North in the afternoon, but I've definitely got a shot at it.  I have no idea what people are going to shoot today, but another co-medal would be awesome.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT