NHL DRAFT
June 26, 2009
Jared Cowen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Your thoughts and impressions of being taken by Ottawa?
 JARED COWEN: Very impressed. I've always liked Ottawa. They have always been one of my favorite teams so, to actually go there is you could say a dream come true so I'm very excited about it.

 Q. Did you have any indication leading up to it that Ottawa was interested new?
 JARED COWEN: Not more so than any other team. I met with them yesterday and checked me out and I talked to everyone on their staff. It was a good meeting, so I think from that I had a little bit of an idea.

 Q. Inaudible. 
 JARED COWEN: I've skated twice, felt much better the second time than the first time. That was just on Sunday. So for me that's pretty good where I had a schedule by five weeks, and it's going as good as it can right now. 

 Q. Inaudible. 
 JARED COWEN: That's a great comparison. He's a great player, and he's obviously won the Norris Trophy this year and hopefully I'll be able to fill the shoes he's left in Ottawa and Boston. 

 Q. Did you think that you might have a chance of playing in the NHL next year?
 JARED COWEN: That's always been the goal. I want to play as soon as I can. I think I'll get more of a feeling if I can or not, when I get back and I think that's something I'm looking forward to and it's definitely my frame of mind right now. 

 Q. How did you injure your knee. 
 JARED COWEN: I hit a guy and he just fell on the inside and pulled me down with him. It's pretty awkward but definitely innocent.

 Q. Which knee is it? 
 JARED COWEN: Right knee. 

 Q. ACL?
 JARED COWEN: ACL, MCL and a little bit of meniscus tear. 

 Q. How anxious were you about the draft considering that you were hurt? 
 JARED COWEN: I didn't really know what to expect. I didn't know if it would affect me too much. I think it has a little bit, but I'm definitely not disappointing right now. I'm happy to be going to Ottawa, so it's a little bit of a blessing in disguise.

 Q. What are your attributes?
 JARED COWEN: I think because I'm a big guy I can use my body well and I'm not afraid to play physical. I enjoy that part of the game. I think I'm very versatile. I don't have a weakness that's holding me back too much, so I think I can bring every parts of the game and be successful here. 

 Q. Are you rehabbing the knee at all?
 JARED COWEN: Oh, yeah, should be fully ready for Spokane on August 27, so no problem for the actual Ottawa camp. 

 Q. Are you coming to Ottawa now? 
 JARED COWEN: I don't know, I just found out it's pretty quick here so I'll have to talk to the staff of my agency how that's going to work. 

 Q. How much time do you spend in rehab every day?
 JARED COWEN: Usually it's six times a week, sometimes twice a day. I usually swim on Tuesdays and Thursdays. 
 So it's a pretty vigorous schedule, a lot different than past summers. It's a good learning process but a lot of hard work. 

 Q. You mentioned that you skated for the first time --
 JARED COWEN: A week ago, I guess on Wednesday, and second time on Sunday.

 Q. How hard did you go, light skate? 
 JARED COWEN: First time I was pretty nervous but second time I felt a lot better and I did pretty much everything I could without injuring it, so I felt better than I expected it would. 

 Q. Did the doctor look at it -- 
 JARED COWEN: He was very impressed with it and he said it looked very good and I was very happy with what he said about it. 

 Q. You're going to a team that -- inaudible. 
 JARED COWEN: I don't know about that. I hope he stays there. He's a great player and hopefully I can be around him and learn some things. If he goes, that's fine but if he stays, that's even better for me. 

 Q. Talk about the Memorial Cup, what part of junior prepared you for this next step?
 JARED COWEN: Obviously last year when we won, that was a great experience for everyone on the team. It did a lot for all of us, especially me, I learned how to win playing all of those more than 20 games in the playoffs. That was a big step for all of us and I was very happy that it happened considering how I was injured this year and cut my season short. So that was more important than maybe some people thought it was. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT