U.S. OLYMPIC SWIM TRIALS
July 2, 2016
Maya DiRado
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So, did you ever imagine that you could come back and win three?
MAYA DIRADO: No, this is a dream, and I think it speaks to the changes that Greg has made to Stanford swimming.  We were comparing our swims from four years ago to now, and we're just a totally different program, and I'm so happy to go out and represent Stanford.  Someone made the comment this is the last time we will be wearing these caps, and so I wanted to go out and have a great last race for Stanford.
Q. Is this what swimming with no future in the sport can do?
MAYA DIRADO: Apparently, yeah, I think everyone should try it, just to call this one your last meet.  I'm having so much fun and I think it's freeing to be able to swim like this.
Q. Think there was pressure off after winning the first one?
MAYA DIRADO: Absolutely.  The meet got so much better after that.  You can try to control your nerves all you want but there is no staying calm when you are trying to make the Olympic Team, so having that out of the way has made this so much better.
Q. Have you been able to enjoy the week a little bit more?
MAYA DIRADO: Yeah, absolutely, and you really are able to get into the emotions and the storylines people are going through, because you don't have to worry about yourself, so it's been really fun.
Q. Can you get faster in the next five weeks?
MAYA DIRADO: I think so, actually. At least for the 400 IM, for sure, because swimming with all that tension, it will be nice to go out there and race freely.
Q. (No microphone.)
MAYA DIRADO: Obviously, when they're not saying her name in lane five, Missy holds the world record in this event, so it's fun to be able to compete against her but, you know, you're just out there swimming the race.
Q. You like the close I see?
MAYA DIRADO: I've been working on the third 50 and it feels good to pull away and know that I can finish strong.
Q. And your new Olympic clothing?
MAYA DIRADO: That was a really fun.  It was a really fun day today to be able to do all the processing.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT