U.S. OLYMPIC SWIM TRIALS
June 26, 2016
Maya DiRado
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Maya, some opening comments.  Tell us about your race and what you're feeling right now.   
MAYA DIRADO: Oh, man, I was very, very nervous before that race.  I think I kind of freaked Greg out, too, but it's -- you know, it's a different way of swimming when it's not about how well you do, it really comes down to are you first or second, and so that's a little stressful, but once the race got going, I just felt really strong and chill and then I kinda had a moment where, like, I woke up in the middle of the race on the freestyle and kind of looked down at the bottom of the pool on the first 50, and it was just surreal, like, is this happening right now?  Because I could see that I was ahead.  I don't even know.  It was perfect!   
 Q.  It looked like you had the race in control the whole time, your breaststroke was obviously very good to keep you where you were.  What were your emotions when you're coming into the finish and you know you've actually won and you're going to the Olympics?  
MAYA DIRADO: I mean, it felt like a dream.  I was trying to, you know, still be in the race, still working hard, obviously it hurts, so you don't have to convince yourself too much that you're really swimming, but I just wanted to be, like, remember that -- those last 25 meters knowing that I was about to touch the wall and see a first place next to my name and, I mean, it's just -- I can't believe that happened!   
 Q.  Maya, you said you freaked Greg out a little bit.  What was it like knowing you were coming out favored to make the Olympic team, unlike four years ago when it was -- when you didn't really have that pressure on you?  
MAYA DIRADO: Yeah, it's a totally different ball game, with the lead-up, and being on the door out there, like it's cool, but it's also kind of scary, but, you know, you just look at it in that I've done the work to put me in a spot where people were expecting me to make the team, and that's good!  That has its bonuses, and, you know, coming in 4th after prelims, that's actually pretty good for me, because my prelim swims are generally underwhelming, and I know that I always improve at night, so it was a pretty good spot, I just had to hit my breaststroke, and after that first 50 I knew it was going to happen.   
 Q.  What was it about that breaststroke that was on tonight?  
MAYA DIRADO: I don't know.  I think we got lucky.  I think -- it's kind of hit or miss for me, and I've been pretty good in training, and it's just getting that to happen in a race was what we needed, but we made good adjustments and, yeah, it all came together.   
 Q.  When you entered Stanford, were you on a quadrennial program with Greg with the Olympics plan in mind and a step up?  You had a very good year of training; it's been very good.  Has this gone according to plan, your plan and Greg's?  
MAYA DIRADO: I would say it's gone better than planned.  When Greg took over in 2012, I wasn't expecting to swim past 2014, my senior year, because Greg is Greg, and he's a genius, slowly but surely he convinced me, like, you know, 2013, my first full year with him, I had my breakout year, I would say, and then it's just gotten better from there.   
We didn't lay that all out in our first meeting in 2012, but it's just kind of been a slow building to getting to this point.   
 Q.  Have you gotten better because of the Durden Cal influence on Greg?  
MAYA DIRADO: I think Greg has run a great program on his own, and I think he learned a lot there, but he's definitely taken it and made Stanford his own, and we're really lucky to have him.   
 Q.  Can you talk about the difference between four years ago and now where, you know, you've gone from challenger to champion, and how tough that was on you mentally just throughout even the last couple years now?  
MAYA DIRADO: Yeah.  To go from kind of being in the mix and getting fourth and not really feeling that close to then now winning, it was almost in a way less stressful going into these Trials, because I just felt so much more prepared.  Going into 2012 it was like I have no idea how this is going to go, but coming into this one, I knew I did the training, I knew I'd put all the pieces together, and it was just a matter of executing.  So there is obviously the added pressure of kind of coming in as a top seed, but in the same way it's less stressful because I know I've done the work.   
 Q.  And now you're one of the faces of this Trials, you've done all kinds of photo shoots and all kinds of promos.  What has that been like to be known as one of the faces of the United States?  
MAYA DIRADO: Yeah, it's a little weird, but, you know, I would say I'm one of the supporting characters.  You have the stars like Ledecky, who I can't wait to watch swim tomorrow and, you know, I'll kind of be putzing in the background but enjoying it nonetheless.  Happy to be a part of this team.   
 Q.  Maya, congratulations.  
MAYA DIRADO: Thank you.   
 Q.  You said something in the Mixed Zone that struck me as having zen certainty that you were getting a lot of confidence from not holding on too tightly, even though you knew it was your last go-round?  How do you know that this experience that you're about to have is not going to transform your attitude and change your mind?  
MAYA DIRADO: I guess there is no way to know for sure, but, again, I think the reason that I've had this success this year is because I know that swimming is wrapping up for me and it's so much easier to work hard every day and push myself and be excited about all the little things that make swimming great, but are kind of hard to get excited about when you're looking at this like, oh, I have so many more years ahead of me of doing this.   
So it's been a treat to swim every day and to be in the group that I'm in and be at Stanford.  So I think having that kind of closure, and I knew I had done the work, and I worked as hard as I could, so whatever happens, happens, was really calming going into that race.   
 Q.  You said in the Mixed Zone you couldn't wait to see your coach and your family.  What were those moments like?  
MAYA DIRADO: It was really emotional seeing Greg.  He gave me a big hug, and anytime you can make Greg cheer up a little bit, you know it's been a good swim.  I haven't actually gotten to see my family yet but I called my husband after the race and he told me -- he kind of described the scene going on.  My mother-in-law he said has not stopped crying, my mom was just, like, all over the place, like what happens now?  When do we get to see her?  Where is she going?  And I was like, I don't know anything.  I don't what's going on!   
My dad was very calm and collected as he is generally.  I'm sure I will see a little tear when I give him a hug, but he pretends like he's got it all under wraps.   
THE MODERATOR: All right, thanks everyone.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT