ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 26, 2019
Brian Stuard
Russell Knox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How did starting with the better ball format benefit you guys today?
BRIAN STUARD: I think, well, that's obviously the easier format.  We got off to a good start, and that just kind of propelled us along.
RUSSELL KNOX: Yeah, I agree.  We both played this event where you start with foursomes, and it's just kind of tough to get into a rhythm, whereas when you start with four-ball you can kind of ease into it.  You have your partner to back you up if you hit a bad shot.  It's a fun format.
Q. How do you guys benefit each other on the golf course?
RUSSELL KNOX: Our games are very similar.  Our biggest strength so far is we've kept the ball in play.  We've hit it in the fairway.  We've always been in the hole.  We've chipped it well.  We've putted well.  It's been good.  We went bogey-free today 36 holes, which was always good.
BRIAN STUARD: Yeah, I agree.  We've played really nicely.  Didn't have too much stress.  So it was kind of easy and free.
Q. How important is a late tee time tomorrow after 36 holes today to your success the rest of the weekend?
RUSSELL KNOX: Well, it'll be nice to sleep in, obviously.  I mean, we've been out here obviously for a long time today.  My feet is tired.  So it'll be nice to have a nice dinner and put our feet up, sleep in a little bit, knowing we don't have to wake up at 5:00 tomorrow.  But we'll go out again and do it again.
Q. How big of an advantage is it over the guys who have to be here at 7:00 a.m. tomorrow?
BRIAN STUARD: Yeah, I think we kind of got a bit of a break not having to come out yesterday and then getting it all in today, like you said.  It'll be nice to relax for a little bit.
Q. Kind of a long day; was it like weathering the storm out there or just kind of business as usual?
RUSSELL KNOX: It was a perfect day.  There hasn't been a cloud in the sky all day.  The course was pretty soft.  It was attack this morning, and then a quick refuel and this afternoon alternate shot, and you're just trying to play as good as you can, try and survive the tricky format.  We were able to do that, and obviously in a great position going into tomorrow.
Q. Just as a past champion here, how special is it to just return here and be at the top of the leaderboard once again.
BRIAN STUARD: No doubt.  It's very cool.  Like you said, 2016 was a great time for me, so it's always fun to come back, and I seem to play pretty well here, so I like it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT