DUBAI DUTY FREE IRISH OPEN HOSTED BY THE RORY FOUNDATION
July 8, 2018
Russell Knox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
RUSSELL KNOX: This is an excellent venue, Ballyliffin golf club was terrific.  Obviously I loved it.  It was amazing.  I can't believe I'm standing here holding this right now.   
 Q.  What a finish this afternoon?  
RUSSELL KNOX: Yeah, I mean, obviously to make a putt like that, it's a dream come true, on the last hole to win.  Fortunately I've done it before, so I knew I could do it.   
But to make a putt of that length, twice, a little lucky, but obviously very happy with it.   
 Q.  When you were chasing down the lead all day, did you just try and hang in there thinking, look, if I can just get myself into contention here at the very end, it could go to a playoff?  
RUSSELL KNOX: Yeah, to be honest, I didn't really care about where anyone else was.  I mean, it was all about how I played, head down.  I usually watch the score boards but I had nice rhythm and flow to my game on the back nine and I didn't want to like lose the aggressive feeling I had there by looking at the board and seeing that I was close.  Obviously I knew I was.  I did look up on 17.  Disappointed not to birdie that hole.  Knew I needed to birdie 18, and then obviously the putt was amazing.   
 Q.  You came close at The K Club a couple of years ago, and it was a McIlroy spectacular finish that closed it out and it's your turn today. The putt you holed to get into the playoff was a cracker.  
RUSSELL KNOX: Absolutely.  Obviously that's why I practise.  I've struggled with my putting for a long time but I mean, I've worked hard with my coach back home, Ramon Bescansa with Perfect Putter.  I've just been visualising more, seeing the ball go in.  I mean, this week was one of the best putting weeks I've ever had.   
 Q.  How do you feel now heading to the Scottish Open and The Open Championship a week later?  
RUSSELL KNOX: Obviously thrilled to go back to Scotland for two weeks where I grew up.  But right now I'm going to enjoy this victory and this tournament.  I'll cross that bridge next week, but obviously over the moon right now, and can't wait for everything.   
 Q.  To sink a long putt like that on the 72nd hole was amazing but to do it again in the playoff was even more, you must be feeling pretty good?  
RUSSELL KNOX: Yeah, amazing.  It's so hard to win tournaments.  I mean, the way I managed to do it, holing those two long putts, it was just my time.  Ryan played incredible, obviously.  That lip-out on the last, felt for him.  But just like I say, it was my time.  I feel very lucky.   
 Q.  You came from a few shots back as Alex Noren did last week.  At what point did you feel you could post a score that could put you in contention?  
RUSSELL KNOX: I knew after I eagled the fourth hole, I had a chance.  I had not missed a shot to that point anyway and I was swinging well.  I knew I was going to make birdies.  I just had a nice, calm comfortable feeling.  I put my head down and didn't look at the board until right at the end.  Fortunately it was my time.   
 Q.  You spoke about France about how well you played there and now that form has carried forward and you have The Open Championship.  Good time to be hitting form on the links?  
RUSSELL KNOX: Yes, absolutely.  The goal was to come to Europe for a month and then try and win a tournament, and to finish tied second last week in France and then to win this great tournament, I feel very lucky and unbelievable.   
 Q.  You're the latest winner of a Rolex Series Event, transforming European Tour golf.  That must be a very special feeling, as well?  
RUSSELL KNOX: Absolutely.  Rolex, obviously a massive sponsor of The European Tour, and I'm just lucky to win one of these massive events, so thank you very much to Rolex.   
 Q.  You've come close before, but you got over the line this time.  What have you made of the course here at Ballyliffin?  
RUSSELL KNOX: I love Ballyliffin golf course.  It was a fun course.  I think we got very lucky with the weather.  This course in bad weather would have been a beast.  But it played unbelievable.  It played firm, fast.  The greens were very true.  Nobody would complain about the greens.  It was just a joy to play, a great mix of holes.  I'm very happy to be the champion.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT