AT&T PEBBLE BEACH PRO-AM
February 11, 2021
Russell Knox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Some takeaways from your round here today at Pebble Beach?
RUSSELL KNOX:   Yeah, anytime you get a chance to play Pebble Beach is amazing, and obviously happy with the way I played.  Got off to a great start the kind of first seven holes and then was just able to kind of play solid from there and shoot a good score.  So always happy.
Q. What was the key today for you?  What felt like you were really on within your game?
RUSSELL KNOX:   Probably the first tee shot.  I probably hit the worst first tee shot of my, maybe my professional career.  I hit a 5-wood and hit like 4 inches behind the ball and hit it 40 yards offline to the right, so kind of set the tone for the day.
But I was able to settle down after that and play some really good golf.  The eagle on 2, I hit a beautiful shot in there on 2 and made a nice eagle.  That really just settled me down after kind of a nervy first hole.  And then I had some chances and the putter cooperated today so it was nice to get off to a good start.
Q. How much are you checking the weather forecast when you're out here?
RUSSELL KNOX:   I do.  I mean, I think all of us golfers that live on the Weather Channel app just to see the wind and the temperatures and whatnot and if it's going to rain.  It's very similar conditions to where I grew up and you know here there's a chance it could rain at any moment.  It's going to be cold.  I mean, if the kind of the sea, kind of fog haar comes in, the temperature can drop.  Full rain gear in the bag, umbrella, at all times at Pebble Beach.
Q. It's obviously a different year without the amateurs.  From a course setup perspective, what do you finding out different this year than in years past related to golf course setup?
RUSSELL KNOX:   Yeah, I mean, there might be a few tighter pin positions, especially these first few days.  I thought the greens were a little quicker than normal as well, but, and then also because of the U.S. Open tees here the course setup guys have flexibility to kind of make it longer and harder, if they want to.  But, I mean, today I thought they set it up very well.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT