WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
October 26, 2016
Russell Knox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CLARE BODEL: Welcome back to Shanghai, Russell.  You're here as the defending champion, taking part in one of the strongest fields we've ever seen here in Shanghai at the WGC - HSBC Champions.  How important is that playing in a field like this, having is this kind of test going into The Final Series?
RUSSELL KNOX: Yeah, it's amazing when you get to play against the strongest fields in golf.  There are so many massive names here as there was last year and it's the best way to test your game to see how good you stack up against the best of the best.
So it's an honour to be the champion here and to come back and defend.
CLARE BODEL: Talking about the defence of your title, Russell, if you were to win here today, here this week, you would become only the second player after Tiger Woods to successfully defend a WGC title.  Do you think about those kind of landmarks?  Does that come into your thoughts at all?
RUSSELL KNOX: It does now.  It would be unbelievable to be in the same conversation as Tiger Woods for winning back-to-back.
But no, I expect to come here and play well, but I mean, obviously winning is extremely difficult, especially calibre of field that is here this week.  I'm just going to try and enjoy myself.
This is my first professional title defence, so I'm really going to try so soak it all in and do my best and see what happens.  But by no means, am I going to put extra pressure on myself to try and do it again.
Q. Can you pick out three things from your life that have changed since you won this title 12 months ago?
RUSSELL KNOX: Bank balance, being the first one.  Schedule; I've now got into -- get the opportunity to play in all these WGC events and the majors.
And third one, to be honest, not much has changed.  I mean, I smile maybe a little bit bigger.  But all in all, I mean, life was great before I won this tournament and it's still just as great.  So to be honest, not much has changed.
Q. Can you recall the last time that you had to play in a tournament that's with such heavy rainfall, and during this weekend, the weather forecast, there's a prediction of rainfall and of course the temperature dropping, as well.  So when is your last time having such a difficult situation going into a tournament?
RUSSELL KNOX: This year in the US, it's rained a lot.  There have been a lot of rain delays.  The PGA Championship, the weather was bad.
And to be honest, we play in poor weather all the time, and especially growing up in Scotland, the temperature being a little cooler here is nice for me.
So yeah, I like playing in poor conditions.  In the past, it's been good to me.
Q. You were saying how you never watched Dustin hit a shot until you had him beat.  Is there anyone else that you played with that you wouldn't let yourself look at them as they were hitting?
RUSSELL KNOX: No, I don't think I've ever done that before.  I just woke up that morning thinking, okay, well, I'm just not going to watch Dustin drive it, because obviously he hits it a million miles further than I do.
So I didn't want to get sucked into his game.  I'm not really sure why I thought to do that.  But I think it turned out to be an important part of the final round last year, because I just stuck to my game plan.
So it worked out good for me.  It's probably something which I'll do in the future, too, if I'm in a similar situation with someone whose game is different from mine.  Really, you can't benefit from watching someone else swing, unless you -- like Ken Duke, for example, I love playing with Ken Duke because I like watching the rhythm of his swing.  I guess there are certain players that it can help but there's also players that it can hurt your rhythm.
Q. Did you watch Rory hit that 3-wood into 18 at The Irish Open?
RUSSELL KNOX: Yes.  I didn't watch his 3-wood into 16, though.  And then when it landed on the green, then I watched how he acted.  I wish I would have watched it because it was a heck of a shot.
Q. I think I remember you saying last year that you have very seldom altered your swing and it's been the same since.  Does the same still apply or have you changed anything at all in the last few months?
RUSSELL KNOX: No, I still don't have a swing coach.  I don't like being told what to do when it comes to that.  The great thing about not having a coach is you can swing however you like.  You can almost change your feeling or your swing day-to-day.
Right now, things are going well.  I feel like I'm striking the ball good, so I don't feel like I have the need for one right now.
Q. Do you look at yourself on sort of video from time to time, or do you just leave it down to feel?
RUSSELL KNOX: Very infrequently, I'll look at a video.  I took a couple yesterday.  I don't really know what I look for to be honest.  Just see how good-looking I am or something, good posture.
But no, I'm such a feel player that I feel like that's the way I play my best, and when I become too technical, too many thoughts enter my mind.  I mean, it's just golf.  You go out there and you whack it around and do your best.
Q. How often do you do cryotherapy, and did you have to get talked into it and can you give us the details?
RUSSELL KNOX: My wife and her sister opened a cryotherapy place in Jacksonville, Florida.  I do cryotherapy every day I'm at home.  And I am forced into it (laughter).  But no, I think it's excellent actually.  I feel great.  My body feels great.  So hopefully it's helping me.  I miss it when I travel.
Q. How cold does it get?
RUSSELL KNOX: Really cold.  Come and try it out.  Minus 246.
Q. How long do you stay in the cryo?
RUSSELL KNOX: Three minutes.  You wear gloves and boots and your underwear, and your head's sticking out for three minutes.
Q. If you were really honest with yourself and with us, and you're tied for the lead going into the final round of a tournament, who is the last guy you want to be shaking hands with on the first tee, and why?
RUSSELL KNOX: Probably Jason Day.  The few times I've played with him, I mean, he's played unbelievably well.  And I feel like when he's playing his best, he's extremely difficult to beat, because he drives it super far and his iron game is very solid, and his short game and putting is incredible.
I would say Jason Day.  But I would love the chance to tee it up with him tied for the lead.  I love testing myself like that.  So he's beaten me obviously more times than I've beaten him.  But it would be nice to take him down.
Q. He's not here this week.
RUSSELL KNOX: Exactly.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT