TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
August 6, 2016
Russell Knox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  It's been an incredibly consistent year for you.  Where have the fireworks over the last three days come from?  
RUSSELL KNOX: I mean, this is how I feel like I play.  I've been driving the ball very well the last few weeks, which has set me up for my biggest strength is my iron play, so yeah, being in the fairway here, and then I can attack.  So it's been fun.   
 Q.  As a dual member of both the European Tour and the PGA TOUR, where is your focus now with the Ryder Cup around the corner and also trying to get as many FedExCup points as possible?  
RUSSELL KNOX: Yeah, I mean, after the Open Championship at Troon, I'm back here in the U.S. now for the rest of the year, and my goal is FedExCup, and this is the highest I've been since my rookie year, 2012.  I've never made the TOUR Championship, so that's a huge goal of mine, and of course if I can play well, Ryder Cup is of course in the back of my mind.   
 Q.  6-under today, 64, your thoughts on how you played?  
RUSSELL KNOX: Yeah, I played beautifully.  I had loads of chances.  Obviously I made some, which was great.  I missed a couple, but to finish with a birdie left a good taste in my mouth.   
 Q.  I kept saying as I called your iron shots, especially maybe the first 13, 14 holes, you were dialed in.  I thought there was some really strong play today?  
RUSSELL KNOX: Yeah, I felt great.  I felt positive.  I had good kind of rhythm to my play, had some great yardages there.  Yeah, I just went for it.  Aim at the pin, you might hit it there.   
 Q.  A momentum builder at 18 because you had a chance at 17 and I know you weren't happy with what happened at 16, the par-3, but a good birdie to finish.  
RUSSELL KNOX: Yeah, that was real important for me.  I had hit a couple poor putts on 16 and 17, and I was just kind of battling with my stroke.  I was moving too much.  Just tried something a little different there on 18 and pured it right in the middle, so that was nice.   
 Q.  Yesterday you told the assembled media, I am a beast.  That round was that of a beast.  
RUSSELL KNOX: Thank you.  Yeah, I was happy with how I played.  I played nicely.  I drove the ball very well.  My iron play was terrific at times, and I managed to hole a few putts.  All in all, I'm very pleased with my position.   
 Q.  Starting from the tee, the fact that you're hitting the fairways, you hit 11 of 14 fairways, 15 of 18 greens, doesn't it play to your strengths to set you up for good iron play?  
RUSSELL KNOX: Absolutely.  I mean, my iron play has always been my strength.  So is the driver, really.  If I keep playing like this, I should give myself loads of chances, which I have done, and if they go in, they go in.   
 Q.  Tomorrow should be somewhat of a shootout.  Are you mentally prepared?  
RUSSELL KNOX: Absolutely.  This is it.  I'm ready to play well.  I always tell myself, don't be scared to play well.  You've got to go for it.  You've got to play to win, and hopefully I'll do that tomorrow.   
 Q.  A lot of names on top of that board.  
RUSSELL KNOX: Yeah, absolutely.  I played very well.  I drove it well.  My iron play at time was extremely good, and I made a few putts, so yeah, all in all, very good.   
 Q.  The strategy when you know you have to make birdies to win this thing, do you change the way you approach things?  
RUSSELL KNOX: Yeah, especially playing this morning, this course dries out as the day goes on, but all of us being out there early this morning, everything was just a little softer, so it was really fun because you could attack.  I mean, we all love playing when it's like that.   
 Q.  What was working well for you today, driving the ball, approaches, putting, the whole nine yards?  
RUSSELL KNOX: Yeah, I drove it extremely well.  I wasn't out of position too many times, and then a bunch of good iron shots, so I just gave myself loads of chances for birdie, which was nice.   
 Q.  What are your thoughts heading into tomorrow?  You're only a few shots out.  
RUSSELL KNOX: Yeah, I'm feeling great.  I mean, it's all to play for.  There's going to be a bunch of guys that can shoot a round and win this thing, so it's going to take some great golf, and I look forward to trying.   
 Q.  Speculate for me, if we get rain and we get soaked tonight, how much more fun might that be trying to attack a softer course in the final round tomorrow if that happens?  
RUSSELL KNOX: Yeah, I mean, let's hope it doesn't rain too many.  But no, it will be fun.  This course is one of the most fun courses we play all year on the PGA TOUR.  I mean, the last nine holes, anything can happen.  I love being here, and if it's soft, it's going to take a really low score to win this thing tomorrow.  Someone is going to shoot a really good score, and I hope it's me.   
 Q.  What's with the skull and crossbones on the belt?  
RUSSELL KNOX: Vineyard Vines do some cool belts, and I got it last week.  Every time I wear it, I play pretty good, so you'll probably see it tomorrow, too.   
 Q.  Did you wear it yesterday?  
RUSSELL KNOX: No, I did not.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT