TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
August 5, 2016
Russell Knox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. A 67 today, a 67 yesterday.  How would you compare the two rounds?
RUSSELL KNOX: About the same to be honest.  I had a couple stretches where I played really well and then a couple where I just kind of was hacking it around a little bit.  But all in all, I mean, very pleased.
Q. You've had a busy summer, an emotional summer playing at the Scottish Open and the Open and of course the PGA Championship.  How much is pacing yourself and battling fatigue been a part of this season for you?
RUSSELL KNOX: I'm a beast, man.  I'm not tired.  I'm ready to go.  This is my life.  I love every minute of it.  But no, of course I've taken some weeks off.  I mean, you have to.  It's grueling.  But I've waited my whole life to do this.  I'm ready to roll.
Q. Speaking of waiting your whole life for something big, the Ryder Cup is coming this fall.  You said you may be closer to making that European Ryder Cup team than people realize.  What would Darren Clarke be getting should you make the European Ryder Cup team?
RUSSELL KNOX: Yeah, I mean, I hope I can make it.  I mean, I love match play.  I grew up playing a lot of match play, and he knows that.  I love the competition.  But I mean, we all do, so I would love the make the team, and if I don't, 12 people deserve to be there ahead of me, so we'll see what happens.
Q. 4-under making the turn.  I thought, hmm, he's going to shoot a low number today.  You burned a lot of edges on the back side.  Your thoughts on how you played?
RUSSELL KNOX: Yeah, I played well.  I mean, we had that little wait on 10 for Matt Jones getting a little treatment, and I three-putted there.  Just kind of lost the momentum.  I had a couple chances after that but just wasn't able to bend them.  I felt pretty solid tee to green, and that's going to help me out this weekend.
Q. Yesterday it seemed like the back nine was more gettable.  In fact, you had four birdies, shot 32.  The entire field has had a better time on the front side today in the second round.  Why is that?
RUSSELL KNOX: I mean, when we turned, 10 was tough because we all had mud balls there.  That's a tricky hole, and then 11, 12 and 13 and 14, the wind was howling for us.  It was whipping down there, and those holes aren't the easiest when it's into the wind like that.  I think that made it tricky.
The pin on 15 is, I mean, a very tricky little hole, and then 16 played tough.  Every hole can play easy if you hit good shots, and they're difficult if you don't.
Q. Your thoughts heading into the weekend?  You're right in the mix at minus 6.
RUSSELL KNOX: Yeah, so is everyone that makes the cut, though.  It's unbelievably bunched.  It's anyone's game.  I've got to play better than I have probably the first two days here, make a few more putts if I want to have a chance.  But I feel great about where I'm at.
Q. Talk about your round; another 67.
RUSSELL KNOX: Yeah, I was pleased.  I hit the ball nicely.  Got off to a great start.  I was 4-under at the turn, hoping to keep going.  But it got a little trickier on the back nine.  I was happy to make a bunch of pars to finish with.
Q. You got three straight birdies there on the back side.  Talk about that and the length of the putts.
RUSSELL KNOX: Yeah, I mean, on the front side there, I birdied -- what did I birdie?  5, 6 and 7 I think I birdied.  5, I holed a nice putt from maybe eight feet.  Then on the par-5, 6, I holed it from maybe 12, 15 feet, and probably almost 20 feet on 7.  That was a great little stretch to see some go in.
Q. They're talking about possible thunderstorms tomorrow, some nasty weather.  Where you're from, is this nothing for you?
RUSSELL KNOX: I mean, we're all so used to it.  We've all done this a million times, so it's not really going to affect anyone.
Q. I overheard you over here describing yourself, and you said you are a --
RUSSELL KNOX: I'm a beast.
Q. Why are you a beast?
RUSSELL KNOX: No, I mean, we've all played a lot of golf.  This is my first year I've got into all the majors, all the WGCs, so it's been a dream come true to get to play against the best players in the world every week, so I mean, I'm -- it's tough to take a week off.  This has been my dream to play the PGA TOUR and play well, and I'm right in the thick of it now.  Hopefully I'll have a long time to do this, but I'm enjoying playing right now.
Q. What will your approach be tomorrow?  As you said, you're right in the thick of things.  Will it change your approach at all, or do you have to keep it the same as it's been?
RUSSELL KNOX: I mean, foot down.  You've got to go for it, try and play as best you can.  I mean, you've just got to pretend it's just you out there and nobody else and just play as good a round as you can, and if it doesn't go well, oh, well.
Q. Are you a little bit surprised that as good as the weather has been, not much wind, a little bit more than yesterday, but that even more guys didn't post really good scores?
RUSSELL KNOX: Yeah, to be honest.  But the course is just tricky enough.  There's a few nice little pin positions.  The greens are firming up.  It's just one of those courses that you can shoot a super low score like guys have in the past, Kevin Streelman, for example, to win, or if you're just a little off, every hole is a tough par.  It's what makes this course so good.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT