ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 8, 2016
Russell Knox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Second round 70 to go with yesterday's 72.  Give us your verdict on your play today.  
RUSSELL KNOX: I played very well.  Better than the score -- I had three 3-putts.  I struggled with the greens a little speed-wise, but overall tee-to-green was good.   
I didn't forget how much I love playing links golf, but it's in my blood.  It truly is the best way to play.  You can run the ball on the ground.  It's really fun battling the conditions.   
 Q.  Obviously your position, you're the centre of attention this week, lots of media, functions to attend; is that difficult or have you enjoyed every minute?  
RUSSELL KNOX: No, I have enjoyed it.  It's what I want to do.  I want to play well and be a star.  Hopefully I'll get used to it.   
 Q.  And last night?  
RUSSELL KNOX: It was a really nice evening, they awarded me honorary membership.  It was a nice evening and a lot of people came out and said some really nice things about me.   
 Q.  Nice to have the family there, as well?  
RUSSELL KNOX: Absolutely, great having my parents and my sister here, which was very nice.   
 Q.  You must be tired, been a hell of a 24 hours.  
RUSSELL KNOX: Of course I'm a little tired, but the adrenaline, of course, is in me, so that's going to help me get through it all.  But don't worry, won't be tired.   
 Q.  Happier with the course today?  
RUSSELL KNOX: The greens were slower today, and I struggled with that, left a lot of putts short.  But that was understandable after yesterday.  They probably weren't going to make it fast in case it was windy.  They are rolling perfect.  The whole course is flawless.  I just need to hit the putts a little harder.   
 Q.  Good position going into the weekend?  
RUSSELL KNOX: Yeah, I've played nicely.  Maybe felt like today could have been a lot lower, but it is what it is, and happy to make the cut, and two more days in front of my home fans.   
 Q.  We spoke before about the pressure you might have of being the home favourite on your home course.  How have you been handling it, have you found it okay, an inspiration?  
RUSSELL KNOX: Yeah, absolutely.  I think it makes it easier to be honest, because you have to try and smile as much as possible and really be thankful that everyone is out here supporting me.  Hopefully I'll use that as a plus on the weekend.   
 Q.  How important is this week, obviously it's a huge week for you naturally, but obviously The Open is just around the corner, as well, so just sort of getting everything lined up; is that a challenge?  
RUSSELL KNOX: Yeah, but I mean, that's what it's all about, trying to play well in the tournaments you really want to play well in.  That's something I've been looking forward to this for a long time, and I'm happy to have played pretty solid the first two rounds.  I'm going to have to play a lot better on the weekend to have a chance.  But yeah, I look forward to it, every minute of it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT