ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 7, 2016
Russell Knox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
RUSSELL KNOX: Today was extremely difficult.  I haven't played in too many tougher rounds to be honest.  So I'm happy with my round.  I think it was fair.  I didn't play great.  I kept it in play for the most part.  I think even par was pretty good.   
 Q.  How tough was it out there with the wind, keeping the ball down?  
RUSSELL KNOX: It was a guessing game.  Everyone, we were just pulling a club and hoping for the best.  It was borderline too windy.  I mean, balls were rolling on the green multiple times during the round, but somehow we kept going.  It was hard, though.  It was really hard.  When a par 5 plays driver, 3-wood, 5-iron and I was nowhere near the hole, pretty tough day.   
 Q.  Playing in front of home crowds, the atmosphere today, what was it like?  
RUSSELL KNOX: The atmosphere was amazing.  A lot of old friends and people I've known for a lot of years showed up, which was great.  Hopefully that will continue for three more days.   
 Q.  And finally, you're in contention going into the second day.  Over the next few days, you'll be looking to move up the leaderboard?  
RUSSELL KNOX: It's all weather permitting for me.  If it's this hard, it's just a battle.  It's kind of luck; whoever can get four or five hours of decent weather.  It's very challenging, but it's kind of fun, though.  It's goofy golf when it's this windy.   
 Q.  For 5 1/2 hours, a little bit tricky, was it?  
RUSSELL KNOX: Just felt like we were out there for ten hours.  I mean, long, long day.  Obviously very tricky conditions.  But yeah, I'm going to sleep good tonight.   
 Q.  Mentally tiring, as well?  
RUSSELL KNOX: Yes, very mentally tiring, because every shot is so difficult.  You have to put so much thought into it.  Like, okay, it's 140 yards, it's into a 25-mile-an-hour wind; is it playing 180 yards.  So you have to keep it down.  You're constantly thinking, which makes it hard.   
 Q.  The 18th was a bit of a beast, wasn't it.  
RUSSELL KNOX: I mean, it's a terrible setup in my opinion:  600 yards straight into a 30-mile-an-hour wind.  They could have easily moved us up a tee.  I disagree with that hole today.  But I hit three good shots, and three bad putts.   
 Q.  The conditions, were some of the holes unplayable?  
RUSSELL KNOX: It was very close.  The greens were as perfect a speed as they could be for today.  There was a couple holes there, the exposed ones, which the ball was moving a little bit.  They could have quite easily stopped it.  But I'm glad they didn't.  Get on with it, it's the same for everyone out there.   
The balls, was it No. 12, I think the group in front of us, the ball was moving.  But I mean, if the ball is moving, I don't know how you can keep going.  So it was close.  I had the ball oscillate a couple times, but in my opinion, it was good to keep going.   
 Q.  Were there any other holes --  
RUSSELL KNOX: 17 was tough, too.  17 played shorter than 16, and that's a par 3 compared to a par 4.  So that shows you.  I needed to hit one more club on the par 3 than I did on the par 4.   
 Q.  I think you're due to pick up honorary membership in less than an hour's time.  
RUSSELL KNOX: I was hoping to go home and eat and shower, but that's not going to happen.  Wasn't ideal.  I would have loved to play early today but not to worry, I'll just go and show my face and go home and eat.   
 Q.  A couple familiar faces behind the ropes, any interactions with the crowd?  
RUSSELL KNOX: Not really.  I tried to stay focused.  I saw a few people out I would have loved to have went and had dinner with tonight.  But it's tough, because you see them, and then, poof, they are gone, and you don't see them again.  I would have loved to come over maybe earlier so I could spend time with a lot of people.   
 Q.  Was there many complaints in your group about the time it was taking or course setup?  
RUSSELL KNOX: Just general.  I mean, it was so difficult.  Obviously we had to wait many holes just because of the greens on par 4s and whatnot.  It takes a long time when you have to do that.  When it's this windy, putting is very difficult.  We all backed off putts, so that adds time.  To be honest, we probably couldn't have played much faster.   
 Q.  At the end of the day, you're still very much in the mix at level par.  That must be pleasing.  
RUSSELL KNOX: Yeah, absolutely.  I mean, a day like this, it's easy to get it away from you.  Like I said, my swing didn't feel unbelievable, but hung in there and would have loved to have shot under par obviously but even par is still pretty good.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT