U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 19, 2016
Russell Knox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How would you assess the week?  
RUSSELL KNOX: Pretty good.  Yeah, I think it was fair what I finished.  I didn't have my best swing this week, and I putted really nice, which was a nice change.  Now I've just got to -- normally, it's the other way around.  Now I've just got to put it together.   
But, yeah, it was hard.  My goodness.  I putted off the green on No. 2 today and made a triple, and then I was even par for the other 17.  Pretty decent effort.   
 Q.  Yeah, definitely.  
RUSSELL KNOX: All in all, I'm quite pleased to make the cut.  I don't know where I'm going to finish, but hopefully top 25 would be nice.   
 Q.  You told us at the top of the week that making the cut was one of your primary aims of the week to improve your cut record in majors.  I guess that's mission accomplished from that point of view anyway.  
RUSSELL KNOX: Yeah, absolutely.  This will be my best ever finish in a major, because at the other U.S. Open I made the cut and finished in, I think, in the 40s.  So, yeah, got to be positive.  Yeah, this is good.   
 Q.  And it gives you something to build on.  You've got some big ambitions this summer as well.  
RUSSELL KNOX: Yeah, I played well.  I changed my driver today actually, and that made a huge difference.  I drove the ball very nicely.  So that was why I was able to keep the score halfway decent after a triple.  So I was very pleased with that and the putting there.  I've just got to -- I mean, this was -- well, I played 4 of the last 5 weeks flying overseas.  I'm probably tired a little bit.  Then playing 36 yesterday, I think I can give myself a break.   
 Q.  I was going to say, it's a long week as well.  And coming up, you've got Scottish in a few weeks?  
RUSSELL KNOX: Yeah, I'll take a week off Bridgestone and Scottish Open, then PGA.  There we go.   
 Q.  Coming fast and furious after that.  
RUSSELL KNOX: It's what I've always wanted to do.  So it's time to get to play these big tournaments, and I can't wait.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT