BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 25, 2016
Russell Knox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MICHAEL GIBBONS: Russell, welcome to the BMW PGA Championship.   
RUSSELL KNOX: Thank you very much.   
MICHAEL GIBBONS: Thanks for joining us.  Russell, just give us your thoughts on being here, your first BMW PGA, obviously a massive event on The European Tour.   
RUSSELL KNOX: Yeah, it's great to be here.  Grew up watching this tournament.  Obviously growing up in Scotland, always dreamt of getting to play here.  First time obviously.  Seems like an amazing event.  There's a lot going on.  There's a lot of people here.  Haven't made it out to the course yet but will do this afternoon, so look forward to that.   
Hopefully I'll play all right.   
MICHAEL GIBBONS: You seem to be playing very well, after last week.   
RUSSELL KNOX: It's a simple game if you hit it where you're looking.  So drive it in the fairway and try and make the putts.  A lot of people complicate things, but I try and make it as simple as possible.  It's extremely hard at times and very easy at other times.  Hopefully this week will be the easy one.   
 Q.  Just to follow on about last week, I suppose you did all you could for 69 holes, and then you just had to stand back and watch when the world No. 3 produces a finish like he did.  
RUSSELL KNOX: Yeah, it was amazing.  After 15, I was one ahead, and I never thought I had the tournament obviously, because Rory is capable of anything, which he proved.  The shot he hit into 16 was one of the best shots he'll probably ever hit, and definitely that I've ever seen.   
It was a bummer obviously for me, but at the same time, how can you not take a step back and say well done to Rory for that.  He played the last three holes like a champion and he deserved to win because of it.   
 Q.  I suppose you've shown that even though it's been awhile since you've played in Scottish conditions maybe, that you can still play in these European conditions; you haven't been too pampered across in Florida.  
RUSSELL KNOX: Yeah, I guess it's in my blood to be able to play in that horrific weather.  But the reason why I moved is because I don't enjoy it.   
No, I enjoy playing in that kind of weather to be honest.  I mean, I'm good at it.  I get the ball in play a lot of the times off the tee, which makes it easier.  And sometimes it's fun to play in the rain.  I mean, put on the rain gear, one foot in front of the other.   
But I didn't expect it to hailstorm.  That was kind of interesting.  It was fun.  I enjoyed every minute of last week and I'll enjoy every minute of this week, too.   
 Q.  Clearly the reason you've taken up a European Tour card is to get into that Ryder Cup Team.  How realistic a goal now is that for 2016?  
RUSSELL KNOX: Yeah, it's a huge goal now.  After I won in China, it was realistic to make the team, but at the same time, there's still a lot to be done.   
Now I've finished second three times since that.  I played good enough to be right up there at THE PLAYERS for 71 holes.  So really, I've had four really good tournaments since then, and to be honest, I expect to make the team now.  If I keep playing the way I'm going, I think I can do it and I sure hope I do.   
 Q.  Do you expect to make it automatically; wouldn't be a case of relying on a captain's pick?  
RUSSELL KNOX: Yeah, hopefully.  That's the goal.  Wherever I am in the points list, I mean, arguably, I'm higher up because my win didn't count.  But obviously Darren Clarke knows that, as well as all of you.  But it didn't count points-wise, so hopefully I'll make enough points to qualify automatically.   
But at the same time, I won that tournament, and no one can take that away from me, so we'll see where it ends up.   
 Q.  I wasn't going to bring it up, but you brought it up yourself, so I may as well.  71 holes were great at THE PLAYERS Championship.  I suppose when you have what happened on 17 on Saturday, do you just have to laugh about it?  
RUSSELL KNOX: Yeah, until you're in that situation, you don't quite know how you're going to feel.  After I almost hit the wrong island in my second attempt (laughter) it's just a weird feeling.  I mean, you start to like panic.  There I thought, well, I'll try it again.   
I should have went to the drop zone after the first one.  I learned my lesson there if I ever do that again.  It was one of those things.  I guess you can take it terribly or you can take it good, and I was fortunate enough that I took it well enough and was able to go on.   
I felt like a big moment for me was the 18th tee shot.  I mean, I go up there and I hit a good one tee shot.  And we had to wait for five to ten minutes on the tee, as well.  Zach Johnson kind of put his arm around me and started laughing.  I think that was very nice of him.  Kind of calmed me down.   
I ended up 3-putting the hole for a bogey, but I was happy the way I was able to hit the green in two shots.  I mean, if I hit it in the water off the tee there, the tournament's completely away.   
Obviously I had no chance of winning after making a 9, but still, it was nice to be able to come back on Sunday and finish Top-20.   
 Q.  Just with that Ryder Cup bit in mind, where are you going to be playing the next couple of months?  
RUSSELL KNOX: After this week, I'll go back to the U.S. to play the Memorial.  Week off, U.S. Open, week off, WGC Bridgestone, Scottish Open, The Open Championship.  So really, the only additional European start would be The Scottish Open.   
 Q.  Have you got a new driver yet, and did you text David Lingmerth after last week?  
RUSSELL KNOX: I do have a new driver.  I had four yesterday I hit on the range, and fortunately David Lingmerth's agent, Ben Harrison, one of his friends happened to just have the same driver head that I was using, and it turned out almost identical to the one I had been using for 3 1/2 years.  So that was extremely lucky.   
David Lingmerth has been a huge part of last week and probably the future (laughter).  We happen to live five minutes from each other in Jacksonville, so it will be easy enough to buy him a beer.   
 Q.  What's the best part of your game?  
RUSSELL KNOX: Probably has been the driving.  But my iron play's been very good, too.  Distance control of my irons, aim it at the pin in case you hit it there; that's been my strength.   
 Q.  What was it like playing with Rory in the final group in Ireland?  
RUSSELL KNOX: It was amazing, and Danny Willett, too.  I'm walking down the fairway and I'm playing with the Masters Champion and a four-time Major winner who is going to win a bunch more.  It was an amazing day.   
And to stand there toe-to-toe with one of the best ever to play golf was a thrill, and I almost beat him, but he showed why he's Rory McIlroy at the end I guess.   
It was amazing and can't wait to do it again.   
 Q.  And lastly, how does life on The European Tour differ to life in the States?  
RUSSELL KNOX: The bacon sandwiches are much better on The European Tour, that's for sure (laughter).  I much prefer the bacon over here.   
It's pretty similar to be honest, especially big tournaments like this.  The US, they put on a show almost every week, so it's pretty special.  But every time I've come over to play in Europe, it's been amazing.  The fans are incredible, loads of crowds.  It's very similar.  Just the weather is way worse (laughter).   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT