THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 15, 2016
Russell Knox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Well played today.
RUSSELL KNOX: Thank you.  I've never been so nervous over a shot in my whole life.  It was a career-defining moment for me.  If I couldn't get off the tee there today, I was in big trouble.  So I was very happy that I hit the green.  Even though I three-putted, I beat my score by five yesterday, so pretty solid.
Q. It was your only bogey of the day; you clearly were in control out there.  Were conditions a bit easier, greens a little easier to putt on?
RUSSELL KNOX: Yeah, the conditions were good.  The greens were still fast, but they weren't getting away from you today.  The course setup was perfect.  Yeah, I was disappointed not to go bogey-free, but I mean, I hit a great par putt on 17 and just lipped out.  Not to worry.
Q. You've had a terrific career already and bright days ahead.  Is that the attitude that you had in your mind as you were going through it?
RUSSELL KNOX: Yeah, I kept telling myself how well I played yesterday.  I mean, to put up an 8 was a joke, considering how well I played.  I expected to come out here and play decent today.  It was nice to shoot the score I did.  It's always a challenge, and I'm glad I got off 17, and look forward to a crack at it again next year.
Q. Everyone has been commenting how they're impressed the way that you handled hitting it in the water three times yesterday on 17.  When you made it there safely today, was it a relief?
RUSSELL KNOX: I've never been so nervous over a shot in my life.  It was a career-defining moment for me.  If I couldn't get off the tee today, I was in big trouble.  I was thrilled to find the green.  Even though I three-putted, I beat my score by five.
Q. I have your Tweet that you sent out this morning, and you said, "Shank-You very much for all the nice messages."  Looking forward to getting my revenge today.  How have you approached this whole thing?  It seems like you've been pretty good about it.
RUSSELL KNOX: I mean, you've got two choices.  Either you're good with it or you're not, and I chose the good side, I guess.  You can only laugh.  I mean, it's the 17th of Sawgrass.  It's one of the coolest holes ever, and yesterday it got my lunch.  But I knew I could come back, and I'm glad I hit the green today.  I mean, I wish I could have yesterday over.  It would have -- I would have been right there, I think, but at the same time, it is what it is, and look forward to -- I would say I got my revenge, even though I made a bogey.  Whatever.
Q. And you had a great round today, so thank you very much for your time, and good luck next week.
RUSSELL KNOX: Thank you very much.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT