THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 14, 2016
Russell Knox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Is that the best way to handle it, just kind of enjoy it as much as you can with the crowd there?  
RUSSELL KNOX: Yeah, I guess so.  A lot of people were rooting for me here.  I mean, I guess -- I don't know what to say.  I mean, that was an epic fail.  But yeah, I mean, until you're in that position you don't understand what it feels like.  I thought I hit a good first shot.  I thought I'd stuffed it.  And then after that, I mean, it just goes so quickly.  It's hard to describe how you feel.  Your whole body is like just -- just like -- I don't even know, where your blood is just pumping through your brain.  I should have went to the drop zone after the first one.  I didn't even realize -- I thought it was a shorter shot.  It's an easy shot from there.  I did horrible to hit it up at the top.  I should have hit a much better shot.   
I'll learn.  Should have went there, cost me four shots probably, but I've never shanked a pitching wedge off a tee before, so that was a first.   
 Q.  How did you feel like the course was overall today?  
RUSSELL KNOX: I think everyone knows that it got out of hand slightly.  I mean, the greens were the fastest I've ever putted on.  It was fun, I mean, because it was so hard, but it was -- I looked up on the board and saw Ken Duke shot 65, and was like, what?  That's the best round of golf ever probably.  It was incredible how hard it was out there.   
If I made a par, I was delighted.  Somebody shot 7-under?   
 Q.  Third tee shot, did you feel like you hit it well?  
RUSSELL KNOX: I just -- I actually hit it good.  I mean, I was just -- I had pitching wedge.  I knew I had to hit it good.  I mean, it was only 123 yards to the front, so I was like, all I need to do is hit it on the face and I'm going to be on the green.  The first one, I must have just hit it a groove high because I hit it pretty decent.  It wasn't a total chunk.  I was very shocked when it went in the water because I never once thought it was going to go in, and then obviously the second one, epic fail.  After that, it's just difficult.  You're so nervous.  I mean, you've got thousands of people laughing at you.  It's a very uncomfortable feeling.   
Yeah, it's a bummer because I hung in there.  I was playing great.   
 Q.  It seemed like being a local guy they showed some support for you and you kind of gave it back to them a little bit, but did you feel like they were kind of in your corner there at the end when you were on the green finishing up?  
RUSSELL KNOX: Yeah, absolutely.  I had no idea what I was going to make.  I mean, I ended up made an awesome putt for 9.  After I was walking through the tunnel, I was like, whoa, that was to avoid a 10.   
 Q.  What do you do tomorrow now when you stand on that hole?  How quick do you wipe this out of your memory banks?  
RUSSELL KNOX: I'll be terrified probably tomorrow.  I don't know.  I mean, that's the first time I've ever hit it in the water on that hole.  The only other time I've ever hit it in the water, I did it on purpose the week before the tournament two years ago because I had never hit it in the water before.  That's the first, second and third time I've ever done it.   
 Q.  How often do you play here when you're home?  
RUSSELL KNOX: Really not anymore.  I played one time since last tournament, but I used to play here all the time.   
 Q.  Never in the water, only in a practice round?  
RUSSELL KNOX: No.  It's such an easy shot when you have no nerves or adrenaline.  A pro would never miss that.  I mean, we should know what we're doing.  But it's a different story once you've hit two in a row in the water.  The green felt like it was the size of a quarter.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT