RBC HERITAGE
April 15, 2016
Russell Knox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  8 birdies and just two bogeys in a round of 65.  When you stood at the first tee this afternoon, what was your goal today?  
RUSSELL KNOX: To shoot under par.  It was kind of chilly and windy.  But good conditions.  I'm thrilled about it.   
 Q.  The long putt at 18, how crucial was that to finish on a good note today?  
RUSSELL KNOX: Yeah, I putted beautifully all day.  The best I've putted in a long, long time.  I had some good confidence.   
 Q.  Got your first win in China in the fall.  What's the difference between being a PGA Tour member and a PGA Tour winner?  
RUSSELL KNOX: Winning is much better.  It's the greatest feeling ever.  And we should all do it more often.  But I'm thrilled to have won a tournament.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
RUSSELL KNOX: I holed putts.  Yesterday I played beautiful, too.  I hit a lot of great shots.  I just kept it going today.  I went over the round in my head last night.  I'm playing great.  I'll keep going.  If the putts went in, great.  And I was able to hole some putts today and keep the momentum.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
RUSSELL KNOX: Yeah, I mean the conditions were fine, really.  It wasn't as windy as they forecasted, which was nice.  And it didn't rain.  If it would be raining right now it would be super cold.  I think we're all happy it didn't rain.  Because of my ball flight this kind of wind doesn't affect me too much.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
RUSSELL KNOX: I've done it before.  I can sit there and look at all the guys on the leaderboard, and think, yeah, I've beaten that guy before.  So that's a comforting feeling.  But it certainly doesn't make it any easier.  Winning is the hardest thing to do, that's why so few people can do it.   
 Q.  Russell, 8 birdies today in the second round, under these conditions, how were you able to pull that off?  
RUSSELL KNOX: I holed so many nice putts today.  I struggled seemed like forever.  And today made a little adjustment and this week and today was the best I've putted in a long time.   
 Q.  You mentioned some struggles, but all of a sudden just like that it can click for you in this crazy game of golf, right?  
RUSSELL KNOX: Yeah, I had a full team up here this week helping me, my buddy, Ramon, and Tad from Seemore Putters.  And we got it figured out.  It wasn't very good yesterday, but practice works.  And I'm kind of lazy at times, so I just have to put in the time.  I did a little practice earlier before I went out today and I think I'm going to do it again tomorrow.   
 Q.  How great to finish with that birdie right here on 18 in front of the lighthouse?  
RUSSELL KNOX: Yeah, it's a tough hole.  I was between a 4 and 5 and I just smoked a 5-iron.  To make the putt, especially, is a huge bonus.   
 Q.  How do you feel about the weekend?  
RUSSELL KNOX: I can't wait.  I have the family coming up.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT