WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 6, 2015
Russell Knox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
RUSSELL KNOX: It was nice to head to Malaysia knowing there was no cut.  Because, I mean, I missed the cut in Fry's by a shot.  I missed like a 7-footer on the last to make the cut.  And then I was very lucky in Vegas to make the cut.  I hit a 4-iron from 224 to six feet to make the putt to make the cut on the number there.   
So I was happy I played well on Sunday which gave me a little momentum.  Then coming to Malaysia, it was like, oh, sweet, I don't have to deal with the pressure of making the cut.   
I played well on Sunday which gave me a little momentum coming to Malaysia, it was like, oh, sweet, after dealing with the pressure of making the cut.  I played nicely there and getting in here was obviously a bonus.   
 Q.  When did you find out?  
RUSSELL KNOX: Thursday, Friday.  I was in touch with the ladies from the PGA TOUR via e-mail and they said there was a chance I could get in.   
 Q.  What did you do about a visa?  Did you have one just in case?  
RUSSELL KNOX: No.  My wife was a superstar and she filled out all the forms for us, and while we were playing on Friday, she took all the stuff to the Chinese embassy in Kuala Lumpur and had all the stuff processed.  Then we had to wait around till Monday at 2.00pm to get them back and they gave us our passports.  Flew Tuesday morning here.   
 Q.  You're lucky you got it.  Do you realise how hard it is to get sometimes?  
RUSSELL KNOX: Yeah, the process was tough.  She had a really tough day on Friday filling out all the forms and contacting, you need this paper and this flight.  She had a tough day.   
 Q.  Would she get the earnings from this week?  
RUSSELL KNOX: Don't worry, there was a nice mall across the street that she took care of herself (laughing).   
 Q.  Didn't get here till Wednesday -- did you not play this course?  
RUSSELL KNOX: My caddie -- she couldn't fill out his paperwork.  But he didn't have proof of accommodation.  So he was a day behind us, so when we got here on Tuesday, my wife caddied for me.  We got a stand bag from the pro here and chucked the clubs in and played the quickest practise round ever and she complained heavily for the last nine holes.  (Laughter).   
But it was nice to run around quickly, so I did get to see the course, but my caddie did not.  He was lazy and did not walk the course, so I told him what we were going to do.   
 Q.  Is he an older brother?  
RUSSELL KNOX: No, he's just a normal dude.   
 Q.  Is 4-iron your go to club?  
RUSSELL KNOX: I like that club.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT