THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 16, 2015
Russell Knox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  RUSSELL KNOX: I had a decent lie but I was in the rough and I made a stupid mistake with my second shot.  I don't know what I was trying to do.  But to birdie the last was a great way to end.Q. Was it a coincidence?RUSSELL KNOX: I just tried to hit kind of a low runner, a 4-iron and I didn't even know there was two cross bunkers down the left, and I just pulled it a little bit and I didn't even know those bunkers existed and I hit it in the face of one 70 yards short of the bunker that I didn't even know existed.  And from then I was in big trouble, so I kind of hacked it left and two-putted for double.  It was a stupid mistake for me.  But it was nice to come back with birdie.  It makes lunch taste a little better.Q. Were you conditions just as you feared, pretty cold?RUSSELL KNOX: It was chilly, but it was very scorable.  That's why some of the scores on the front were really good because it was right in front of you if you hit good shots.Q. What time did you get up?RUSSELL KNOX: 4:45.Q. Did you feel tired being first off?RUSSELL KNOX: Not really.  I flushed it off the first, wedged it to a couple feet, tapped in for birdie.Q. What are your thoughts on tomorrow?  It's going to be very tough conditions.RUSSELL KNOX: Yeah, I look forward to the challenge.  I prefer it when it's as hard as possible.  It's going to be a good battle.Q. On 17 when your ball was in the air did you realise the bunker was there?RUSSELL KNOX: I didn't know the bunker was there until I kind of stepped to the side and thought, huh, I bet my ball is in there.  I should have just hit a mid-flier, a high 4-iron, and it would have -- but I tried to hit it low and run it up.  I tried to be too Scottish.  That was my mistake.  I guess in the practice round I drove it right down the middle of the fairway both times, so I didn't know if you hit it left you'd have to deal with that bunker.Q. You've got quite a long time today and tomorrow morning before you play again.  How do you deal with that?RUSSELL KNOX: Just rest.  I don't know, my wife and my parents -- we'll probably do some family dinner.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT