ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 26, 2019
Russell Knox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  66 to start. What's the secret to that performance?  
RUSSELL KNOX: I played very good to be honest. It was probably one of my best ball-striking rounds I've had all season. I felt very much in control and holed a few putts early, which to save par from kind of like five, seven feet, which was nice. A few went in for birdie. It was a good day. I was very pleased.   
 Q.  A little birdie told me that you weren't a massive fan of the Old Course. Did that change today, and why is that?  
RUSSELL KNOX: I've always played horrible today. I obviously played better today. Another good round hopefully on Sunday and maybe my opinion will change.   
 Q.  As a Scotsman playing here, does it make it extra special?  
RUSSELL KNOX: There's very few places in the world I've been to that are as special as St. Andrews, even if you're not a golf fan, being a professional, a Scottish professional, it's a dream come true to play here. It's kind of a pinch yourself moment. I'm very proud of my 66.   
 Q.  How good was that?  
RUSSELL KNOX: Very happy. I've never really played very good here before, so nice to play good today and shoot a decent score. I was very happy the way I played. Ball-striking, putting, everything was good. It was nice to have one of those rounds where hopefully I can kind of spring board off and finish the year very strong.   
I've been working very hard and been very close kind of all year. I put a new set of irons in from Srixon this week, so maybe the magic, secret recipe. Today was good and hopefully can build on it the next few days.   
 Q.  How special a feeling to go out on the Home of Golf as a Scotsman and perform like that?  
RUSSELL KNOX: Yeah, all of the Scots would love to win this week. There's few bigger ones than this for a Scot. It was great to play well. Be great to be back here on Sunday with a chance and hopefully the crowd will get behind me.   
 Q.  Does the unique format relax you, the Pro-Am format, compared to what you're doing as an individual?  
RUSSELL KNOX: Yeah, you know standing on the first tee, the pace of play is going to be slower than normal, obviously the amateurs. So you have to be a little more relaxed. My amateur partner, legend. He's the faster golfer I think I've ever played it. He gets it and he had some excellent holes today. As a team, we scored well, too.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT