THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
June 4, 2015
Russell Knox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   I know you're not happy with a bogey at No. 9, but all in all you've got to be very pleased?  
RUSSELL KNOX:   Yeah, I played well and I got really fortunate breaks today, which was nice.   I putted well, too.   I'm glad.   I took my medicine on the last hole.   I had a bad tee shot and could have tried the heroic shot, but realized that 5 is better than 6.   I'm thrilled with 6‑under.  
   
 Q.   You're an excellent putter, and you probably don't get as much credit as you deserve.   But these greens have to fit right into your game, because you really are a good putter?  
RUSSELL KNOX:   Thank you.   I putt best on fast greens, and these greens are as quick as we're putting on all year.   I like to visualize, because there's so many putts with so many breaks here that you have to just see it going in and die it in there, and that's one of my strengths.  
   
 Q.   How were the conditions this afternoon as you played?   It seemed like the wind really died down.   
RUSSELL KNOX:   Yeah, it was very humid.   That was the only tough thing is that my hands were sweating every hole.   But the ball was going for miles, though, because it was so warm and humid.   It was about as perfect as you could ever play.  
   
 Q.   What did you learn last year from your two rounds here?  
RUSSELL KNOX:   I was not very good last year.   I struggled.   But I've improved so much over the last year.  
So I knew that this course is more a second‑shot course, and that should be a strength of mine.   I knew I could come here and play a lot better.  
   
 Q.   What was working well for you today?  
RUSSELL KNOX:   I took advantage of my breaks.   I got stuck on the bank in a par‑3, instead of going in the water, I got up and down.   I chipped in on one hole.   So just all the lucky stuff you need to shoot a good score.  
   
 Q.   I covered the British Open when Nicklaus played his last one at St. Andrews, and the love that the Scottish people have for Jack was so evident over there.   Can you express what that means, what Jack means over in Scotland?  
RUSSELL KNOX:   Yeah, he's a legend.   He's the best of all time.   For me and all of us getting to come to his course here is a dream come true and playing well is even nicer.   
So hopefully I can keep it going and be there on Sunday, shaking his hand.  
   
 Q.   You mentioned taking your medicine on that last one, is that just something you learn as you get older to be a little more patient?  
RUSSELL KNOX:   Yeah, because I could have maybe tried to get it in the greenside bunker, but it wasn't worth it.   I gave myself a putt for par.   And like I said, 5 is better than 6.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT