WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
January 31, 2015
Russell Knox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Softer off the back side and you took advantage of it.  RUSSELL KNOX: Yeah, that was a huge break with the tee time when you get first out and you have nine perfect greens and no one to hold you up.  I like to play fairly quickly, and fortunately my playing partners did today.  We created some good MoJo.   Q.  Nice run of golf for you, 15, 16, 17.  RUSSELL KNOX: I think those holes, the difference between the guy who wins and loses this week.  You can make bogeys and you can obviously make birdies too.  Yesterday I did horrible, and today I...   Q.  You birdied all three.  What was the Colosseum like early in the morning?  RUSSELL KNOX: I was the first to hit, and they sung the National Anthem, which was cool.  Then I think I almost made it.  Hit it to like three feet and looked like it shaved the edge of the hole.  I love that. I mean, I hit it to three feet the first day, eight feet yesterday, and three feet today.  Something about that hole brings out the best of me.   Q.  You put yourself in a position to make a run in the final round, too.  RUSSELL KNOX: I can't wait.  I have been there a few times now.  Not quite done it.  I'm not sure -- Martin will probably get a couple more, but I can't wait to give it a blast tomorrow.   Q.  Do you have plans for tomorrow night?  Super Bowl?  RUSSELL KNOX: No.  No, I don't think so.   Q.  No interest in the Super Bowl?  RUSSELL KNOX: I like soccer.   Q.  This is like turning into the Scottish Open.  RUSSELL KNOX: Yeah.   Q.  So at 29, you're still a very young man, but when you see 20-year-olds and 21-year-olds on the leaderboard, do you feel like they are a generation removed, or what is that like for you?  RUSSELL KNOX: Yeah, I mean, I played with Justin Thomas last year.  It was pretty obvious he was going to be a superstar.  I think everyone thinks that.  And he's not the only one, obviously.  Everyone has just improved so much.  Of course we owe Mr. Woods for all that.  He's just made everyone so much better. My generation obviously grew up idolizing him, and, I mean, he just made everyone want to practice harder and get better.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT