THE 148TH OPEN
July 21, 2019
Russell Knox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








RUSSELL KNOX: It was difficult.  I guess it was right at the turn.  And then 11, 12, 13, 15, 16 are the hardest I've played in.
Q. Was it the gusting?
RUSSELL KNOX: First it wasn't an issue.  Started raining, and then the wind started really picking up on 15 probably for us.  14, 15.  Before it was probably 10, 15 miles an hour and then it started whipping.  We were starting on 15 tee and it started coming down.  It felt like it was blowing 40.  You were holding the umbrella like this.
Q. The playing conditions at The Open, is it tough?
RUSSELL KNOX: The conditions -- I was in great position off the tee.  I mean, I bogeyed 8 from the middle of the fairway.  Didn't hit a good tee shot on 9.  Bogeyed 10 from -- just in the first cut.  Bogeyed 11 from the fairway.  I had done the hard part.  I mean, I just had to get on the green from there.  And I wasn't able to do it.
I holed obviously nothing all day.
Q. (Inaudible.)
RUSSELL KNOX: I did see he shot 3-under, good for him.  That's an excellent round to finish.  I hope he keeps going.  It's good for all of us to try and keep playing well.  But he's on a great run right now and hopefully can keep it going.
Q. What's next?  Are you going to Memphis?
RUSSELL KNOX: No, I'm not going to Memphis.  I'll go home and regroup.  Clean my clothes.
Q. Can you compare that to anything --
RUSSELL KNOX: This was normal to be honest.  It rained and it was windy.  It's not like it was worse than that.
Q. (Inaudible.)
RUSSELL KNOX: Absolutely.  We've played in worse rain.  We've played in more wind.  Yes, it was on the biggest stage on a demanding course.  So everything is kind of highlighted.
But it was still doable.  If you could hit good shots -- it wasn't like Mickey Mouse conditions.  I mean, it was terrible but if you just made decent swings, kept it in front of you, it wasn't impossible to make pars.  Yes, to make birdies at times it was hard.  But if you just kept it in front of you, you could shoot a par.
Q. With the weekend, maybe some encouragement going forward?
RUSSELL KNOX: Yeah, I finished here -- I don't know what I shot.  I bogeyed every hole, I felt like, on the back nine.  But I felt like I swung the club pretty good today.  After a reasonably good start, had perfect drive down 8 and was a little unfortunate the stance I got was on a severe slope.
But I made a lot of good swings.  I only had a couple of drives in that tough stretch where I was in a little bit of trouble.  But my approach shots to the greens were very good.
This was not the worst I've played in a long time but I just didn't hole anything.  The greens were three feet slower than yesterday.  I couldn't get the ball to the hole, and when I did it was blowing 50 and it was hard to read it.
It was hard.  By this stage of the game, three weeks of links golf and I have no excuse to be struggling with the pace of the greens.  When there's a bit of moisture on it, it seemed to make a big difference, it slowed them up a lot.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT