RBC HERITAGE
April 17, 2014
Russell Knox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Russell Knox, 2‑under par 69 in Round 1.   How would you rate your performance?  
RUSSELL KNOX:   I was pleased.   I played nicely.   The conditions were challenging, especially the last couple of holes.   Very windy.   You've got to be on your game to score out here.  
   
 Q.   Talk about that 18th hole and how tough it's playing today.   
RUSSELL KNOX:   I smashed a drive for me, anyway, and I don't know if it went 220.   I had 210 last time.   I was really trying to hit the green there.   So a 5 is not a terrible score on that hole right now.   It's very difficult.  
   
 Q.   You said this is your first time here, how do you like the small greens?  
RUSSELL KNOX:   I knew I was going to love this place.   Everyone I've spoken to who knows my game and said, "This course is tailor made for you."   I was excited to come here and very happy to get off to a nice start.  
   
 Q.   You've had a pretty good year so far.   What are you looking for in Round 2?  
RUSSELL KNOX:   Just the same.   Keep plugging away.   This course can bite you really anytime.   It's very tough to judge the wind.   So, yeah, just keep plugging away and hole the putts.  
   
 Q.   Just overall comments on your day?  
RUSSELL KNOX:   Started off very nicely.   I hold some nice par putts, and then kind of lost it towards the end.   We turned back into the wind.   It's tough.   I thought there was a few holes where they were set up very difficult.   And the par‑3, 14.   The par‑5, 15, it was hard.   I was on survival the last few holes.  
   
 Q.   So you're really pleased with the round?  
RUSSELL KNOX:   Yeah, I was pleased for sure.   I holed some nice putts.  
   
 Q.   Take us through one of best birdies of the day that you had.   
RUSSELL KNOX:   Birdied No. 10, that was a good one.   Hit a nice 9‑iron in there, holed a nice putt.   Holed a couple of nice putts on the back nine.   A really good one on 16 for par.   I hit a terrible second shot, misjudged the wind, had a terrible lie in the bunker, hacked it out, and made a 25‑footer for par.   The ones you make for par you always remember rather than the birdies.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT