THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 1, 2014
Russell Knox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   The 68 today, I know how good that 63 was yesterday, but given the conditions today, you have to be just as pleaded the way you played today?  
RUSSELL KNOX:   Yeah, I would have taken 68 before I teed off probably.   Pretty different course I think than the guys played this morning.   It was windy.   It was tough out there, and greens were fast.   No, I'm thrilled.  
   
 Q.   12 of 14 fairways, managed to limit any mistakes off the Lee and put yourself in a lot of good positions today?  
RUSSELL KNOX:   That's kind of my game, I get it in the fairway and I see what I can do from there.   No, I was pleased the way I drove it, and hopefully I'll do the same tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   No worse than the next to last group it looks like for you tomorrow, what are you taking from your game into Sunday, what do you like and how do you gauge your chances?   
RUSSELL KNOX:   I feel great out there.   It's not my first time of being in this situation.   Obviously some guys around me have been there a lot more.   No, I feel good.   I look forward to my chance tomorrow, and I mean, you never know.   This course is so demanding that you've got to be right on your game and hopefully my AGame shows up tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   How difficult was it out there?  
RUSSELL KNOX:   It was challenging.   It wasn't impossible, though.   You just had to hit really good shot after really good shot, so I was lucky to do that on some of the hard holes with the water and made some nice putts.  
   
 Q.   How do you feel at 9‑under, do you think you're right in the thick of this thing?  
RUSSELL KNOX:   I have a great chance tomorrow.   I mean, I don't need to win this tournament to have‑‑ to leave being happy.   I mean, if my day is tomorrow, then albeit, but I'm just looking forward to going out there and walking tall and playing as well as I can, and if something great happens, bonus.  
   
 Q.   Huge names in this field, tough course, through three rounds, how happy are you that you are right there?   
RUSSELL KNOX:   Yeah, I mean, I'm delighted but at the same time, I mean, now that I'm a professional, I should play good.   That's what I hope to do. If I was playing this game not to be in this situation, then I might as well quit.   So I'm right where I want to be and look forward to tomorrow.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT