UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS AT SAN ANTONIO FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 23, 2019
Josh Dunlop
Carl Austin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Florida Atlantic 40, UTSA 26   
 Q.  Josh, what was the atmosphere like in the locker room after the game?  
JOSH DUNLOP: We still got positive heads. That's just how we train ourselves. We don't really get too down and out about a certain loss because the way really all college football is played, as soon as the game is over, it's already time to start to prepare for the next opponent.   
Yeah, it was Senior Night, all this extra stuff. At the end of the day we just have to focus on next week.   
 Q.  Is there any sense of disappointment in not being able to reach bowl eligibility?  
JOSH DUNLOP: Yeah, it kind of stings a little bit. You can't really think about all that stuff just yet because we still have Louisiana Tech to come in. We got to go to their place. We got to finish strong. Regardless of bowl game or not, we still got another game to play.   
I'm really proud of my guys, my offensive line. I love each and every one of them. I love coming here to the Alamodome, great place. Remember that for the rest of my life. We still got Louisiana Tech.   
 Q.  Carl, what are some of your emotions having played your last game here?  
CARL AUSTIN: I mean, I hate to be here for one last time. I've been here for a while. I played a lot of snaps on this field. I've had a lot of ups and downs on this field. There were a lot of emotions after the game.   
Lie Josh said, a lot of extra stuff. Unfortunately we didn't come up with the dub but we're getting ready to prepare for La-Tech already.   
 Q.  You always play hard. Sometimes the other team is better, good. Can y'all talk about their squad. Were they as good as advertised?  
JOSH DUNLOP: They definitely did some good things defensively. They have a really good D-line. They made some plays in the secondary.   
As big, as bad as the media hypes them up to be, UTSA, we kind of shot ourselves in the foot tonight. There were a lot of things we did to ourselves, not so much them doing to us.   
Sincere breaks a huge run for 30 yards. We fumble the ball. I mean, that's on us. That's not what FAU did. That's ball security and we got to handle that. We will handle that for the next game.   
 Q.  Carl, in general what were the biggest challenges their offense presented you?  
CARL AUSTIN: Honestly, like Josh said, it was on us. We were shooting ourselves in the foot. The game plan was holding up. We just had some minor hiccups, not being focused the whole four quarters, 60 minutes.   
Coach preached to us that there are minutes in the game where we lose focus, we let big plays go on offense and defense and special teams. We got to find a way to stay focused and compete the whole 60 minutes.   
 Q.  Talk about their tight end. Coach went on and on about him.  
CARL AUSTIN: He's a good player, a play-maker. They game plan to get him the ball. He made the plays when called upon. He's focused, gets the game plan going.   
Focus the whole four quarters, man. Showed spurts of greatness out there, every game we have mental hiccups. We have to eliminate that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT