OLYMPIC GAMES RIO 2016: GOLF
August 13, 2016
David Lingmerth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How do you feel about just where your position is and heading into tomorrow, looks like it might be five, six strokes back. 
DAVID LINGMERTH: Right. I'm a little bit behind, but I'm really happy about today because my process and my attitude and everything was really great out there. After a bit of a rough start, bogeying the first, which played really easy today, and was able to focus on the right things and stay patient. 
It was playing pretty tough today, different wind. Some holes were extremely tough. I was able to battle through, and like I say, stay positive. So I'll bring with me tomorrow my mental attitude and the same approach tomorrow, I think it can be a lot of fun.

Q. How aggressive do you have to be tomorrow? 
DAVID LINGMERTH: Well, that's the thing. Depending on the wind and everything, it's really going to determine a lot what you can and cannot do out there. There are some holes that can really bite you, even though they don't look that intimidating. 
So you know, just one shot at a time. I'm sure being a few shots behind, I've got to, you know, make some birdies. They are not all going to come back to me. But I'm going to stick to the process and see what happens. 

Q. How does it feel now, has it really settled in, being able to be called an Olympian for the rest of your life?
DAVID LINGMERTH: It's a pretty cool experience here, especially being the first ones back for golf here. It was a really cool feeling Thursday morning to get to tee off. I had an earlier tee time than Henrik, so I was the first Swede to tee off in the Olympic tournament here. It was something I thought of that I feel is pretty special. It's been a great week, just the atmosphere around here, the village, and out on the golf course, as well, it's been cool.

Q. The crowds, the nationality and the reaction is a little bit different. 
DAVID LINGMERTH: A little bit different than what we see normally out on Tour. It's really cool. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT