WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
July 2, 2016
David Lingmerth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 1-under today, and I thought you played a really solid round of golf.  You kind of struggled there on the front nine but made the turn, you hit a bunch of fairways, got some birdies, your thoughts on how you played?
DAVID LINGMERTH: Yeah, tee to green it was way better today than it was yesterday.  You know, I thought for the most of the part of the day I played really well.  Just a little disappointed with a couple swings here in the end.  Didn't like to bogey 16.  Yeah, but overall it was a step in the right direction from the day before, even though it was 67 yesterday and 69 today.  But I feel really good, and I'm looking forward to tomorrow.
Q. What about the golf course?  Any different than what it was yesterday?
DAVID LINGMERTH: Oh, the greens were so firm.  I thought I hit a couple good approach shots into the greens that just got away from me when they landed.  They kicked so hard and got me in a couple awkward situations there on No. 5 and No. 8, which resulted in two bogeys.  Other than that, like I said, I felt like I was in pretty good control of it out there.
Q. You went toe to toe with the world No. 1, started the day one shot back, ended the day one shot back.  What's your takeaway from the 69?
DAVID LINGMERTH: You know, Saturday of a big golf tournament, playing with the world No. 1, and I felt comfortable all day.  I'm looking forward to tomorrow.  I think I played a lot better today really than I did yesterday.  Just didn't score quite as well.  The greens were really firm.  A couple approach shots I thought I hit really good kind of got away from me.  Once they hit the green they kicked really hard.  It's playing pretty tough, and you can't be greedy out there, but I feel like I'm in better control now than I was yesterday, and tomorrow is going to be a lot of fun.
Q. What were the keys to your day?
DAVID LINGMERTH: Yeah, I don't know.  I got a nice putt to go there on No. 6, I guess, for birdie, and kind of got going from there.  I felt really good over the ball.  Hit a lot of good shots.  Obviously didn't want to make bogey on 16 and felt like a couple drives in the end got away from me, but it's all really close, and tomorrow is going to be a challenge, but it's going to be a lot of fun.
Q. Look back over your round; what was the key today?  You managed to get it in 1-under par.
DAVID LINGMERTH: Yeah, yeah.  It played tough today.  I think the greens firmed up a lot.  Today I was in a lot better control of my ball than I was yesterday.  I didn't quite score as well, but it was tough, and just got to hang on out there, try to give yourself some chances, and hopefully tomorrow will be even better.
Q. You trail the lead by two; what's the mindset and where do you look to pick up some of those shots?
DAVID LINGMERTH: Yeah, you've got to be aggressive when you can, but it all starts by hitting the fairways.  You know, there's a bunch of birdie holes out there when you're in the fairway.  You can hit some wedges into some greens.  You need wedges to make birdies, really, because the greens are so firm.  We'll see what the pin placements allow us to do tomorrow, but I feel better about my game today than I did yesterday, so it's looking like it's a good sign, I guess.
Q. How do you prioritize your thoughts between here and the Olympics?
DAVID LINGMERTH: Well, I can only worry about what's going on right here and now, so going to rest up and aim for a great day tomorrow, and if the Olympics happens, that'll be a lot of fun, too.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT