WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
July 1, 2016
David Lingmerth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What is it about Ohio that you guys like so much?  
DAVID LINGMERTH: Yeah, Ohio is a special place.  Yeah, well, I don't know really, but the courses do have some similarities.  I feel you've got to be really strong off the tee because it's penalizing if you can't keep it in the short grass.  The rough is nasty.  Greens are pretty firm this week, even though it rained last night.  They held up really well.   
But yeah, it's kind of an undulated course, too.  It's a lot of height change and approach shots off the tee and everything.  It's a fun little course, a lot like Muirfield, the Memorial.   
 Q.  Not a lot of low scores, difficult conditions.  Do you find yourself adapting kind of a mental frame of mind similar to a major in attacking this week?  
DAVID LINGMERTH: Yeah, I like this sort of golf, kind of like Oakmont, my last start.  It's a grind.  You have to really pay attention to every shot because any little mistake and you put yourself in a terrible spot and your number can easily get away from you.  I see a lot of high scores on the leaderboard, and if I didn't chip and putt well today, you don't know what it could have ended up for me, as well.   
I'm feeling good overall.  I've been playing good the last few months and hoping to put it together this weekend.   
 Q.  What were the key moments out there?  
DAVID LINGMERTH: You know, I chipped in on hole 5 to get to 2-under par, and then I was able to scramble for a par again on 6 and missed a birdie on 7, but birdied 8 and 9, and that was kind of nice to get those two, and from there on, I felt good the rest of the way.  Obviously I didn't make as many birdies on the back, but my game is really close, and I'm just happy.  Days like these don't come around too often when you don't feel like you're striking it that well, but you can still post a pretty good number.  I was happy I could do it with my short game today.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT