THE HONDA CLASSIC
February 25, 2016
David Lingmerth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What a well-played round of golf, I thought conditions were very difficult?
DAVID LINGMERTH: Yeah, the wind is strong and it's coming from a direction which makes a lot of holes really hard.  Hard holes got harder today, and it's a tough course.
Q. You were able to par that par 5, 14th hole.
DAVID LINGMERTH: Yeah, 14, that was my only bogey of the day.  But definitely felt like almost a par, because that one, also No. 10 and No. 11, extremely tough today.  So yeah, pretty happy with it the way I played.  I wish I could have made a couple more putts, but you always do.  So I should be happy.
Q. I thought these greens were fast enough and the wind blowing hard enough where it actually affected the break of putts.
DAVID LINGMERTH: No, it definitely did, absolutely.  The greens are pure.  They are bermuda and they are supposed to have some grain in them but the grain didn't affect the ball much today.  It was more the wind.  But it's a fun course to play and like I said, the greens are solid.  So looking forward to the rest of the week.
Q. Five of six scrambling, including three out of the bunkers.
DAVID LINGMERTH: My short game is really good today.  I hit some very nice chip shots and all those up-and-downs were like gimmies.  It was a pretty stress-free round until 14 where I made my bogey.  But feeling good about things.
The putts I made were short and I actually missed a couple short ones here coming in.  So a little bummer, but I'm right where I need to be.
Q. 3-under par in tough conditions, that's a great start to the tournament.
DAVID LINGMERTH: Yeah, very happy with this start.  A day like today, it's really tough out there.  Had to really battle through.  You can't expect to hit all the greens, so scrambling was key today, and I was able to get it up-and-down a few times and make a few other birdies.  Fairly stress-free round considering the conditions.  So, yeah, happy with the start.
I kind of like the tough conditions, too.  It really makes you have to zero in a little bit more.  Makes you focus harder.  I was also paired with some of my best buddies out here.  We just had a nice, relaxed round out there.  Yeah, it was a fun day.
Q. How often do you get a stress-free round out here, especially with the wind?
DAVID LINGMERTH: Not a lot.  Usually expect to have some wind out here.  Today was, like I said, a little extra stronger and from a direction where it was extra tough.
Stress-free rounds are hard to come by out here, especially with the Bear Trap and tough finishing holes.  Yeah, I'll have to enjoy this one, because I can't expect all of them to be stress-free.
Q. Given your game and your past results, do you feel like the tougher, the better plays into your hands?
DAVID LINGMERTH: I generally like tough conditions, yes, but then we have Palm Springs where you've got to shoot low, and obviously I've had a little bit of success out there, too.  I like a good challenge.  It's a challenge to shoot really well as well as to play around par when the conditions get tough.  I enjoy the challenge and I'm really looking forward to the rest of the week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT