PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2015
David Lingmerth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How were you able to shake off yesterday and put out a number today?  
DAVID LINGMERTH: Yeah, I was a little disappointed yesterday.  I had two pretty solid first rounds there.  And I felt comfortable yesterday, I just didn't play very well, which is unfortunate.  I wish I could redo that third round.   
But today I just tried to finish on a good note.  I played solid golf.  I played solid golf for three rounds, so, yeah, playing-wise, probably best Major so far.  So, yeah, I'm still learning.   
 Q.  You've been in a good swing lately, basically from the win on.  Where do you go next with this?  
DAVID LINGMERTH: Yeah, no, I'm looking forward to a week off.  I've been playing a lot lately.  But really going to regroup here for the FedExCup playoffs.  It's going to be fun.  Hopefully I can try to make a run there.   
I made the playoffs a couple years ago, but didn't do any good.  So I want revenge.   
 Q.  What will you take out of this week into that playoff?  
DAVID LINGMERTH: Yeah, just Major tournament, you never know -- I mean, I'm supposed to be able to handle that, I feel like, after having some success here lately, but it was the first time I felt like my play was performing on a pretty high level in a Major Championship.  So that's always good to have with you.  Hopefully it can help me in the playoffs and a lot of tournaments to come up here.   
 Q.  You played pretty well on the back nine all four days, including four birdies today.  What is it about the setup here that allows you to attack those holes?  
DAVID LINGMERTH: I'm trying to figure that out myself.  I got a pretty good start on the front nine, too, every day, just that stretch there, 6 through 9, killed me this week.  I wish I could tell you why, but I know the first day was pretty windy, pretty rough.  This last day with -- it's been pretty windy too and the wind has been basically in the same direction.  I guess one direction first and last day kind of suited me out here for some reason.  But, yeah, 6 through 9, I need to work on for next time.   
 Q.  You said you learned something this week, what have you learned this week that's going to help you win Majors down the stretch?  
DAVID LINGMERTH: Just any experience out here, playing in the second to last group in a Major, it's good to have that with you.  It's hard to win tournaments or win a Major before even having been in that situation before in the heat of things, so to speak.  So now I've been around it a little bit and I need to be around it more, but hopefully I learn some from it and can bring that with me next time.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT