PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2015
David Lingmerth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What is it with you and hot starts?  
DAVID LINGMERTH: Yeah, last two have been pretty good.  I don't know.   
Super tough course here this week and really windy conditions in the afternoon, so didn't really know what to expect, but I got off to a flying start, was able to make some putts and give myself a lot of looks.  So, yeah, front nine was really good.   
 Q.  Were you thinking about what you did at the Open Championship when you were out there?  
DAVID LINGMERTH: It did cross my mind when I had a good look there at 17 to go to 6-under after, what was that, eight holes.  So it did cross my mind, but that was it.   
 Q.  How difficult was it in the afternoon?  
DAVID LINGMERTH: Yeah, I don't really know how difficult it was in the morning, but the afternoon, until the last about 30 minutes I played today, was pretty darn tough.  It was really windy.  The course is tough to begin with.  You really got to pay attention to every shot you hit out there and with the wind it just makes it so much harder.  So, you get tired out there.  It's a lot of work.   
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
DAVID LINGMERTH: Yeah, I got to put it up there.  It's a tough course, it's a Major Championship, and really tough day, so I'm very happy with how I played.   
 Q.  What do you attribute your play to?  
DAVID LINGMERTH: That win at Memorial kind of got me the confidence, I guess, and got me kick started.  I put myself in the position to have some good chances to win some more tournaments after that and it's really good practice for tournaments like these.  So, yeah, I'm hoping I can keep it up and be there on Sunday.   
 Q.  After you went low at the Open Championship in the opening round, what did you learn afterwards that can help you this week to keep it going?  
DAVID LINGMERTH: Yeah, I did get a good start that front nine, but I was very disappointed how I continued my play that week, so it's hard to tell what this week's going to -- what's going to happen this week.  But where I am right now, I'm feeling really comfortable with my game and I'm feeling good about the course.  I know I can play well out here, so just going to put one foot in front of the other and keep on going.   
 Q.  Does shooting this score in the afternoon raise your expectations for tomorrow morning?  
DAVID LINGMERTH: I haven't looked at the forecast, we'll see if the morning is better than the afternoon tomorrow, weather wise.  But hopefully it is.  I don't know.  If I can shoot a good round tomorrow morning, that will definitely give me a good position for the weekend.  So hoping to do that.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT