QUICKEN LOANS NATIONAL
August 2, 2015
David Lingmerth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Got off to a good start, put some pressure on the leaders.  What was the front-9 out there like for you?  DAVID LINGMERTH: Like you said, got off to a good start.  Kept giving myself opportunities and was able to make some putts.  So front-9 feel like they played a little easier.  Back-9 a little bit not and the wind -- was playing a lot of holes into the wind and there's some tough holes there so the scoring conditions were a little tougher coming in.  Yeah, I wish I could have made a couple more putts out there.  It was a solid day.   Q.  Let's take a look at some of the highlights.  This is the 2nd.  DAVID LINGMERTH: What did I do on the 2nd hole?   Q.  Made birdie.  DAVID LINGMERTH: That was nice.  Little right to lefter.  Good way to start.   Q.  Let's go to the 5th hole.  DAVID LINGMERTH: Okay.  Yeah.  Hit it over the green there in two and a fast chip that I ran by a little bit.  Actually I putted it from the rough and was able to convert that birdie.   Q.  It looked like the greens got a little bit faster today than they have been for the first few days.  DAVID LINGMERTH: I noticed also on the back-9 with the wind and sun they were getting pretty firm.  Yeah, they've been tremendous speed all week so, like I said earlier in the week, very fun to putt on.   Q.  This was at 14.  This is really quick down there.  DAVID LINGMERTH: Another really fast chip shot here which did a pretty good job.  Like you see there, ran out quite a bit.  I was able the make that one, too.  So, made a few putts today but now you're going to show the one I really wish I had.   Q.  I'm still trying to figure out how it stayed out.  DAVID LINGMERTH: Leaked right there at first and came back left.  Couldn't believe it.   Q.  Since your break thru at the Memorial this is now your second Top 10.  You got to feel real confident about the way you're playing going into a Major, WGC and The Playoffs.  DAVID LINGMERTH: I'm really looking forward to the next couple weeks coming up here.  My game feels good this week.  I played real solid.  I don't think I played exceptional but I still had a chance here today so really, really happy where my game is at.  Next few weeks are going to be awesome.   Q.  Great playing this week.  DAVID LINGMERTH: Thank you.  I appreciate it.   Q.  How tough was it out there this afternoon?  DAVID LINGMERTH: Yeah, today was probably the toughest day out of all four.  The wind was a little bit stronger and especially the last 9 we played a lot of holes into the wind.  The greens kind of firmed up a little bit and they're very fast.  Been fast all week. So, with all the undulations you have there there's some tricky putts you can get out there.  It was a solid week for me.  I wish I could have had a couple better maybe here in the end but, yeah, I'm still pretty happy with the way I played.   Q.  What was the key for you to get into contention this week?  DAVID LINGMERTH: You know what, I didn't do anything great all week.  I didn't do anything really bad.  My game is at a good point right now, I guess.  Just need to sharpen it up a little bit and maybe I would have had a chance.  It looks like Troy is going to wrap it up here.  I'm happy for him.   Q.  Well played this week.  DAVID LINGMERTH: All right.  Thank you  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT