QUICKEN LOANS NATIONAL
July 31, 2015
David Lingmerth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. David Lingmerth, 65 here.  Of course, David, this is a debut week for PGA TOUR Live.  Followed you for all 18 holes today.  65 on the board.  You're right in the middle of this tournament.  Talk about how exciting this is for your family back in Sweden.DAVID LINGMERTH: Yeah.  It's not everyday I'm on the TV all 18 holes so I'm pretty sure they're fired up about being able to follow the round and I was happy that I was able to make some birdies out there for them today.Q. Talk about this golf course here.  Certainly been soft but I mean playing surfaces a little bit soft.  Pretty quick those greens, too.DAVID LINGMERTH: The greens are about as fast as I've seen all year, maybe a couple other stops that were similar but definitely up there in speed and if you're rolling great, you manage to read them all right and hit it on the line they're very true and it's fun to putt on.Q. Talk to us about the momentum, the confidence that you picked up after winning at Memorial, playing yourself into The Open Championship and coming back here now, the confidence you've picked up in your game and what you've taken this weekend.DAVID LINGMERTH: Right.  It's pretty much all it's about right now.  That win definitely boosted my confidence quite a bit already going into that.  Already going into that week I felt my game was heading in the right direction.  Now I feel like I play a little bit more relaxed and there's no pressure from anywhere.  So, I just go out there and try to have fun and get another win somehow.Q. Well, you're certainly in pretty good position heading into the weekend.  All the best here.DAVID LINGMERTH: Thank you.  I appreciate it.Q. David, just quietly assembling 9-under par through two rounds.  Your thoughts on last two days.DAVID LINGMERTH: Yeah.  I don't know.  I don't think I've done anything really special, just kind of been staying in the game.  Pretty straight off the tee.  Gotten some good looks and finally today I got some putts to go in, too, so, yeah, 9-under after two.  I'm happy with where I'm sitting for the weekend.Q. You shot 65 today.  You speak of a few more putts going in.  Jimmy playing with you.  He had it going on some.  Do you feed off that momentum at all?DAVID LINGMERTH: I think we fed off of each other a little bit, maybe.  Jimmy had a great round today.  His putts that he missed yesterday definitely went in today so it was good to see.Q. Course, any changes from yesterday afternoon?DAVID LINGMERTH: No.  We played lift, clean and place yesterday so today it's still kind of soft, a little sticky.  Got a few mud balls but the course is still in good shape.  I'm hoping it dries up a little bit, though, and less mud balls for the weekend.Q. Little more roll off the fairways, too.  Great playing.  Get some rest, good luck on the weekend.DAVID LINGMERTH: Thank you.  I appreciate it


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT