THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 16, 2015
David Lingmerth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  It was a round of two halves.  Tell us about the brilliant front nine.  DAVID LINGMERTH: Yeah, got off to a great start there, obviously.  Made some birdies, made some putts in the beginning.  I got two really long ones to go on No. 2 and No. 4.  They were kind of bonuses, I guess, but kept on giving myself opportunities throughout that front nine.  Obviously I didn't make birdie on No. 5, which is probably the easiest hole on the front, and even on No. 8 I hit a good tee shot and had about a 25-, 30-footer for birdie, another putt you can't count on, but it looked like it was going in and just barely broke out in the last second there.  But nice to get another 20-footer or so on the last for a 29.   Q.  How were you feeling at that stage?  DAVID LINGMERTH: Yeah, I was obviously feeling really good.  Tried not to think too much.  I felt good on the back, too, just kind of instead of getting the good bounces -- I mean, links golf, you can miss 30 yards one way and be fine, and if you miss three feet the wrong way, you're in big trouble, and that's kind of what happened to me on the back a couple times.  Just left myself some really tough positions and had to fight.  Obviously the putter wasn't -- I wasn't making as many putts on the back, and it was a little tough coming in.  Glad to get a birdie on the last, though.  Makes the back nine feel a little better.   Q.  Where did you feel like it turned badly for you on the back nine?  DAVID LINGMERTH: There was no turn, really.  You know, I feel like the pins were a little tougher maybe, and like I said, I missed in the wrong spots.  They weren't really bad shots, and I just kept on putting myself in some trouble, so I had to fight a lot more, even though I was driving it well, I felt like I was stroking it well, it just wasn't going in.  I'm feeling really good about things.  It was just a shame I had to struggle so much on the back scoring-wise.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  DAVID LINGMERTH: It doesn't help, either.  It was probably a little bit of a mistake on me and my caddie's part.  We should have left it short right or long left.  We were trying to go long left and probably should have hit a little bit more club there.   Q.  What did you hit there?  DAVID LINGMERTH: I hit a 5-iron.   Q.  I understand you have limited experience here?  DAVID LINGMERTH: Yeah, it's my first week around St. Andrews.   Q.  Do you think that had anything to do with what happened on the back side today?  DAVID LINGMERTH: Well, I'm definitely learning as I go, and I definitely learned the hard way on the back today, so yeah, I'm learning.  I feel like I've gotten two full rounds plus about six holes on Wednesday, so I've gotten to see the course plenty, it's just links golf.  I'm not quite used to it.  I like it a lot, but definitely still learning out here.   Q.  How easy was it (inaudible)?  DAVID LINGMERTH: Well, it wasn't as windy, but the wind that was was downwind.  The front nine plays so much shorter than the back nine, at least today.  If you put your ball in play off the tee, you get short irons and you can get yourself some really good opportunities.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  DAVID LINGMERTH: Well, they'll be guesses, but on No. 2, I'm going to say probably about 30 feet or so.  No. 4 was probably 35 I'd say, if not 40.   Q.  They're quite short by St. Andrews standards.  DAVID LINGMERTH: Yeah, No. 5 you can make about a 102-yard putt.   Q.  Starting the day would you have been happy with 2-under?  DAVID LINGMERTH: I probably wouldn't be upset.  It all depends on the conditions out here.  This course can play really easy if it's not too windy.  But a day like today, I'm thinking 69.  I would have liked a few shots better, but I'll still have a chance for the remainder of the week if I play the way I would like to.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  DAVID LINGMERTH: Yeah, I didn't know about that.  Yeah, that's probably a pretty special feeling.  Thank you.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT