THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
June 5, 2015
David Lingmerth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Just start off by talking about your round.   
DAVID LINGMERTH:   Well, off bright and early and played pretty solid to begin with, too, just didn't get the approach shots quite as close to the hole as I would have liked.   Made 6 pars to begin with.   
On No. 5, I probably should have made a birdie, just didn't get it up and down off the right side of the green there.  
But after that, started giving myself some opportunities and the putts started dropping in and, yeah, fun to finish with a few good holes.   So 7‑under, I'm happy.   
   
 Q.   Was there a specific turning point in your game today that propelled you?  
DAVID LINGMERTH:   Not really.   But it was nice to get that first birdie on No.7.   I made probably a 13‑footer or so, actually from the fringe.   
And then I made a nice little longer putt on the next par‑3, too, and then after that I just kind of settled in and played well.  
   
 Q.   You haven't made a bunch of cuts lately, but you've played a lot?  
DAVID LINGMERTH:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   Something develop for you this week?  
DAVID LINGMERTH:   Not really.   I feel like I've been getting better every week.   I've struggled with getting off to really bad starts in tournaments and just have to fight to make the cut.   
Kind of started like that yesterday, too.   I was 2‑over through 4, or something like that, and all of a sudden I just started playing the way I know I can.   And it was pretty stress‑free after those four holes yesterday.   
I'm feeling good about the way I'm progressing with everything, technique and mentally and everything.   So hopefully I can keep it going this weekend.  
   
 Q.   You went to Arkansas?  
DAVID LINGMERTH:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
DAVID LINGMERTH:   Yes, it's a hog.  
   
 Q.   Pretty beast.   You're originally from Sweden, when did you first come to America?  
DAVID LINGMERTH:   For college.  
   
 Q.   College age?  
DAVID LINGMERTH:   Yep.   19, I think I was.  
   
 Q.   You have some distant ties to Ohio, your uncle very, very briefly‑‑  
DAVID LINGMERTH:   Oh, yeah, yeah, my uncle kicked for the Browns, I guess, for a very short period of time.   
   
 Q.   What was the name?  
DAVID LINGMERTH:   Goran Lingmerth.     
   
 Q.   Does he occasionally caddie for you?   He had an influence on your golf career somewhat, didn't he?  
DAVID LINGMERTH:   Yes, he works for Ping, he's a sales rep.   So I got my first set of clubs when I was 12 from him and kind of just‑‑ if I didn't have him, I might not even have played golf.   And obviously he was a professional athlete, and just mentally he's been the type of guy, he's pushed me and tried to get me to the mindset that I can do whatever I set my mind to.   So he's been a good inspiration in so many ways.   
When I moved over here for college, he was like my second dad.   He helped me out with whatever a little college kid can use as help.   He's been a big influence.  
   
 Q.   With what you've done, you've put yourself obviously into the weekend.   What's your mindset going into Saturday and Sunday?  
DAVID LINGMERTH:   I'm just going to enjoy it.   If I can just focus on what's important out there and just small details, keep on doing what I'm doing, I'll be just fine.   It was a little while ago since I was in contention last, but I've been there and I know I can handle it.   Just have a good time.  
   
 Q.   A lot of the people remember you from a couple of years ago from the PLAYERS, being right there on Sunday.   How does that experience change your life, change your game and help you shape your future?  
DAVID LINGMERTH:   Well, at the time I guess I didn't realize even how many people saw me and thought it was cool or whatever.   But I had lost in the playoff at Humana before.   So I had been in contention.   
I felt good at The PLAYERS.   So it's just been a matter of trying to put myself in that situation more.   And I think I can handle it.   I'm just going to go out and do it.  
   
 Q.   Were you aware that you were getting to the lead and then took the lead?  
DAVID LINGMERTH:   Yeah, I saw that I was right there.   I guess I saw someone at 9.   I got to 9 and I figured if I can get to 10 or 11, I'll probably be able to get the lead.   And after I did that I tried to push it even further.   I was looking at trying to get to 13 before I was done.   And that was through like 14 holes or something.   But I'm happy at 12.   
   
 Q.   How were the conditions today?   Anything different from yesterday?  
DAVID LINGMERTH:   The course is fantastic.   And the weather has been beautiful.   You couldn't ask for any better scoring conditions.   The greens are fast and probably‑‑ it might be the best greens I've putted on this year.   Just loving it out here right now.  
   
 Q.   Did you feel like you had this start in the bag coming into this week and on this course?  
DAVID LINGMERTH:   This is my third year here.   I've always liked the place, but I didn't really know that it was really suiting my game that great.   Just with where I've been trending technically and mentally, I was ready to have a good week here.   If not this week then pretty soon.   I'm happy to get going the way I did this week.  
   
 Q.   Have you done any place kicking of your own?  
DAVID LINGMERTH:   Very little.   During my first couple years of college, we probably messed around, but, no, not really.  
   
 Q.   The scores the way they are, what's it going to take to win this?  
DAVID LINGMERTH:   I don't know the history of this event, what the winning scores have been, if I can‑‑ I'm 5 and 7.   If I can get it around 20, I think I should be doing good.   I think the winning scores have probably been more like 15, 16, something like that.   Am I wrong?   I don't know.   But I'm aiming at 20.   We'll see.  
   
 Q.   You're at 11 today, so 15 or 16 might actually be a little low?  
DAVID LINGMERTH:   Yeah, let's go to 20 to begin with.   If I have to push it a little further, I'll try.  
   
 Q.   Have you been a 36‑hole leader?   Should this lead stand up on this Tour?  
DAVID LINGMERTH:   I have.   I've been in the lead a few times.   Don't know if I've been in the solo lead, and sure don't know that I'll be that after the end of day today, either.   I've definitely been tied for the lead.  
   
 Q.   What's tougher, the weekend pressure or keeping your card on the Web.com finals?  
DAVID LINGMERTH:   Well, I don't know, good question.   If you're talking about last year's Web finals, I got off to a good start there and played good in all four events.   I really didn't feel that much pressure last year.   It is what you make it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT