CROWNE PLAZA INVITATIONAL AT COLONIAL
May 25, 2014
David Lingmerth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  DAVID LINGMERTH:   The weekend was pretty solid.   Had a few missed shots here and there, but overall pretty solid week and made lots of pars and two unfortunate bogeys at the end that I wish I could have had back, but I played solid.

Q.   Especially considering, I think I looked back, you missed the last five cuts.   So did you see this coming, did you do anything to turn around your game this week?
DAVID LINGMERTH:   It's a crazy game.   It's a frustrating game.   I was playing pretty bad for a while and just had to dig deep to‑‑ I practiced real hard last week, didn't play Byron.   I was home practicing really hard. 
I don't know, I didn't know what this week was going to be like, but I felt like things were moving the right direction.   I just love this place.   I feel comfortable.   I think this was one of my favorite stops last year.   I don't know, something just started clicking a little bit.

Q.   Did you change anything?
DAVID LINGMERTH:   Not really, just trying to go back to what I know, trying to be me, not trying to think about too many things with my swing and stuff like that.   Just trying to do David Lingmerth.

Q.   Sometimes a player needs a week like this to kind of change the momentum around.   So looking forward, you're hoping thatthis will ‑‑
DAVID LINGMERTH:   That's what I'm hoping.   I'm hoping that this could be a fresh start for me this year.   It's been a little rough the last‑‑ the last couple of months.   So I'm ready to get it going right on track again.

Q.   Anything in particular that you fell like you've been struggling with the last few months?
DAVID LINGMERTH:   Once it starts going sideways, it can be hard to find.   It's frustrating mentally.   And just finding that state of mind where you go out and you have the right attitude all the time.   It's hard sometimes.   So I had to really dig deep.   But I feel like I'm in a good state of mind now. 

Q.   What's your schedule now?
DAVID LINGMERTH:   I'm trying to get in the U.S. Open after‑‑ I'm doing the Memorial.   Trying to get in the U.S. Open after that.   So, I'm playing Memphis, too.   I'm just going to keep on playing out for a little while.

Q.   Where did you qualify?
DAVID LINGMERTH:   Columbus.





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT