THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 12, 2013
David Lingmerth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  DOUG MILNE:   We'd like to welcome David Lingmerth to the interview room here after a successful PLAYERS Championship.   Congratulations on a great week overall, very well done, and you certainly drew the attention of a lot of people worldwide.   Three rounds to start off in the 60s, followed by an even‑par 72 today.   All of that said, just some comments.   I know you said outside overall it was a pretty good week.   Little sour taste in your mouth right now, but I would imagine you've got to be feeling pretty good right now overall?   
DAVID LINGMERTH:   Yeah, it was a great week overall.   I'm in it to win it.   I felt like a good couple of chances there towards the end, and just didn't putt very well.   
I didn't putt well all day, it felt like.   But I gave myself some opportunities, and, yeah, just didn't get it today.   
DOUG MILNE:   You were amongst guys, Tiger, Sergio, so forth, but the one thing I noticed is you never seemed to have any intimidation factor.   Like you said, you were in it to win it.   Did that ever creep into your mind or you were just out to play your game, and like you said, in it to win it?   
DAVID LINGMERTH:   I'm out there to do my own thing.   Sergio does Sergio, and Tiger does Tiger, and I'm going to do me.   But Sergio was really nice.   He came up to me and was really friendly from the get‑go.   We had a good day out there, and he's a great guy.   I really felt bad for him on 17 and 18 there.   That was a tough finish.  
   
 Q.   Once the sting or whatever gets over that you came so close here, I mean, it did take the number 1 player in the world to beat you, big picture, how are you going to come away from this week?   
DAVID LINGMERTH:   Obviously, there are all positives.   I've never been in that position before.   I mean, I've been atop of the leaderboard there's at Humana but I don't think the field was nearly as strong as it was this week.   And a lot of the big names were up on the leaderboard, so it's fun to contend with those guys, and I felt comfortable out there all day and all week.   If I get a chance again, I hope I can take it to another level.  
   
 Q.   I know you said earlier this week you weren't much of a leaderboard watcher.   Did you do any today down the back nine?   Were you looking at numbers or were you head down?   
DAVID LINGMERTH:   A little bit, because I don't know, if I would have started my round with a birdie, and I had a good look at birdie on number 2, if I would have kept on making birdies, I probably wouldn't have looked so much.   But I was trying to see how far ahead some of the guys were, and so I did look a little bit, yes.  
   
 Q.   So many people who have to go up against guys like Sergio and Tiger end up beating themselves.   I mean, what's different about you that you kept the pedal to the metal, as they say, that you just kept fighting and kept going?   
DAVID LINGMERTH:   Yeah, well, I really don't feel like I put the pedal to the metal today.   I felt like I left a lot of shots out there.   I shot even par, which is not a bad score out there, but I feel like I could have done a lot better, and that's why that's leaving a little sour taste right now.   Obviously, tied second is a great week.   But if you would have asked me if I would have taken a 72 before the final round I probably would have tried to do better instead of taking that.   
DOUG MILNE:   Last thing, four birdies, four bogies today.   If you would just run us through those eight holes and just give us some clubs and a little description and so forth, then we'll turn you loose.   
DAVID LINGMERTH:   All right.   Number 1, I hit a drive off the tee into a gap wedge to maybe 12 feet short and made that one.   Then number 8, I hit a horrendous tee shot with a 6‑iron, and terrible pitch shot with a 60‑degree wedge and two‑putted for bogey.   10, I three‑putted for a bogey.   12, I hit a little lob wedge from about 83 yards to 10, 12 feet short and made that putt.   And on 13, I hit an 8‑iron to the back of the green, and I think I was able to knock about a 25‑footer at least in on that one for birdie.   And 14, I was in the fairway and hit a bad 5‑iron short of the green, and that was a tough chip shot, and I couldn't chip it close and two‑putted for bogey.   
On 16, I drove it in the right rough and couldn't really go for the pin, so I decided to play left of the green and try to get it up‑and‑down, which I was able to do from that little bunker.   
On 18, I knocked it on in two and three‑putted.  
   
 Q.   Can you just talk about what it's like trying to chase down Tiger, which is what you were trying to do?   This is really your first experience trying to do that on a Sunday.   What is that like, and does it add to the pressure that you may be feeling in any way?   
DAVID LINGMERTH:   Yeah, I really wasn't trying to chase him too much.   I was trying to do my own thing and I ended up having a chance there towards the end.   Like I said, I shot 72, but it didn't feel like I was chasing him.   I was just trying to shoot a good score.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the putt at 17?   Did you feel like you had given yourself a really good opportunity?   
DAVID LINGMERTH:   Yeah, I kind of blocked that tee shot a little bit right of where I wanted to hit it, obviously.   But I had a good look at it, and I thought it was a right edge putt, and I just pushed it a hair, and left it hanging a little high.  
   
 Q.   Sergio, when his ball went in the water at 17, just run us through what you were thinking and what you felt about him and how he handled it?   
DAVID LINGMERTH:   Yeah, first off, I thought he hit a great shot.   It looked so pure coming off the face and I thought it was going to be good.   Then I saw the wind hit it and it went in the water, and my heart just dropped because he had been playing so good.   I felt bad for him.   Then the crowds were‑‑ some of them weren't acting that great, I think, towards him, and that made me feel a little weird.   Then he hit it in the water again, and the same thing happened over again.   I don't know.   It was just sad to see because we had a good day out there and I felt bad for him.  
   
 Q.   What did the crowds say?   
DAVID LINGMERTH:   I don't know.   They were just heckling him a little bit, I guess.   
DOUG MILNE:   David, congratulations on an overall great week.   
DAVID LINGMERTH:   Appreciate it, thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT