THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 12, 2013
David Lingmerth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   David, when you put your head on the pillow last night, you had to think about a couple of things.   You're in the mix of the tournament, you had the lead, and had you to play 18.   Can you tell me what last night was like for you?   
DAVID LINGMERTH:   It was quite fun.   After I got done playing there were a bunch of interviews and everything and kind of got me going.   So I had to take a little time to sit down before I could go to bed.   But once I did, it wasn't too bad.   I fell asleep pretty quick.  
   
 Q.   Bogeyed the last hole, but still obviously very much still in this tournament.   How do you feel now heading into the final round?   
DAVID LINGMERTH:   The last hole is a tough hole no matter what.   I can live with a bogey there.   I'm going to be in one of the last few groups no matter if I'm leading or not, I'm going to be in it.   So I'm just going to try to play the way I have been and make a few birdies and try to win it.  
   
 Q.   Is there a sense of leaderboard watching for you in the final round?   
DAVID LINGMERTH:   I don't think so.   I'm going to try to do my own thing.   Obviously, I'll know, whoever I'm playing with, I'll know what he's going to do, so it's going to be fun.  
   
 Q.   What are your expectations as you enter the final round?   
DAVID LINGMERTH:   I'm expecting to be good.   I've been feeling good all week, so I'm expecting to be in it.  
   
 Q.   First shot of the day, talk about the tee shot on 18?  
DAVID LINGMERTH:   Honestly, I feel pretty good over it.   Just kind of blocked it out.   I was trying to hit a cut, which is my go‑to shot really.   I just kind of slapped it a little too much.   The second shot was the one that was a little bit troubling.   Hit a bad one there and got lucky to be on the fairway.  
   
 Q.   What did you have there?   
DAVID LINGMERTH:   I had about 190 to the pin.   I was trying to launch a 6‑iron over that tree in front of me, which shouldn't have been a problem, but I kind of caught it a little low on the club face and didn't get the launch.  
   
 Q.   It didn't hit the tree, did it?  
DAVID LINGMERTH:   Yeah, it did.   It hit it right into the tree and just kind of scooted left.   I didn't even see until it bounced into the fairway.   That was kind of a lucky break.  
   
 Q.   You hit it about (Indiscernible)?   
DAVID LINGMERTH:   Probably, yeah, 30.  
   
 Q.   Do you think about that particular (Indiscernible)?  
DAVID LINGMERTH:   No, no, no.  
   
 Q.   You just let it go?   
DAVID LINGMERTH:   Yeah, just let it go.  
   
 Q.   Did it sink in at all last night that you were leading THE PLAYERS Championship?   
DAVID LINGMERTH:   It did, but from what I heard, it seemed like everybody thought I was leading the tournament after three rounds, but they're still out there.   They can easily catch me still.   I know I'll be in the mix, but I've been playing good, and I'm going to keep doing it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT