HUMANA CHALLENGE IN PARTNERSHIP WITH THE CLINTON FOUNDATION
January 20, 2013
David Lingmerth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk to me about the playoff hole here, what you were trying to do with that shot. 
DAVID LINGMERTH:   I hit a good drive and I had a good distance to go for it with my 4‑iron.   Unfortunately, the ball was quite a bit above my feet, creating kind of a hook lie for me.   And I don't know, it just ‑‑ I didn't feel that comfortable over it, obviously.   I just hit a bad shot.   I wish I could have it back, but, oh, well.

Q.   Everybody seems to birdie out here.   Were you thinking eagle on the hole or birdie to stay alive?
DAVID LINGMERTH:   Charles hit a great shot in there, so I knew I had to hit a good shot to have a better eagle chance, of course.   But I really wasn't thinking that. 
I've been in a few playoffs before and sometimes they're over quick and sometimes they go for a longer time.   And I just tried to tell myself to be patient and not go for that eagle shot or whatever.   But just with that lie, I couldn't quite get comfortable over the ball on the second shot. 

Q.   Regardless, you shot 62 today.   Did you expect that you could have a chance to be in such a position as the playoff started?
DAVID LINGMERTH:   Actually, even shooting 62, I didn't think I would be in a playoff because the way Scott played all week, I thought he was going to run away with it.   But I was fortunate to have a chance here, and I'm sure I'll learn from it looking forward to the next opportunity instead.

Q.   Reflecting back now, do you look at this as a positive?
DAVID LINGMERTH:   Absolutely.   This is my second start on the PGA TOUR, so T‑2 is not a bad tournament.   It's pretty good.

Q.   Does this change your expectations or the way you look at the early season going forward here, such a positive result so early?
DAVID LINGMERTH:   Yeah, I mean, we'll see.   At first, I was thinking that I needed to play as much as could here in the beginning.   And while I'm hot, I'm going to keep playing.   But maybe I'll feel a little bit more comfortable taking a week off here and there now.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT