THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 27, 2017
David Lingmerth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You got through that stretch on the front nine, what you needed to do, or was that the first thing from your mind?
DAVID LINGMERTH: I was trying not to have any sort of thoughts about this opponent my mind today.  Figured I had a bit of a cushion going into today.  I was playing pretty solid golf, even today, actually.  Just got into a bad stretch there.  Hit a tee shot on 5 that I thought was good, went through the fairway and into the water.  Dropped it, and hit a good shot again, I thought, over the green.
Pretty much impossible up-and-down, and ended up with a double.  Then I had two silly 3-putts the next couple holes after some pretty decent approaches there.
So I was really playing good.  The only bad shot I hit on the front was on No. 8 to put me in a bad spot that I couldn't get up-and-down.  And all of a sudden, yeah, I knew I was in a tight squeeze to make it to next week.  But I just tried to, you know, dig deep, knowing actually I'm not playing that bad.  I've just got to catch some breaks here and a couple birdies went in, and yeah, happy to finish with 2-under on the back and going to Boston.
Q. Is it pleasing that you're able to do that?  A lot of guys struggle to turn it around.
DAVID LINGMERTH: I guess it's pleasing but I'm a little disappointed that it got to that point because really, played pretty solid this week.  Was hoping to make a move up the leaderboard today.
Obviously I'm happy I dug in today, and I have a chance to make something happen next week instead.  So yeah, I'm glad I'm still in it.
Q. Have you ever done something like this before?  I should probably know that but have you ever --
DAVID LINGMERTH: Not really.  Honestly this is my fourth year making it to the Playoffs and previous three years, I had pretty solid regular seasons and once the Playoffs started, I kind of fell back and never really made a move in any positive direction.
Yeah, I guess this is the first time I'm really making a jump up to the next tournament from the outside.  I guess that's a good feeling at least.
Q. Could that back nine maybe propel you a little bit this next week and give you a little bit of confidence?
DAVID LINGMERTH: I hope so.  There's a lot of things I did this week that I'm proud of.  I putted well.  I think I drove it way better than I have most of this summer.  My short game, chipping's been pretty good, too.  Just got to, you know, be a little bit more consistent with some of the approach shots, and I don't see why I couldn't clean that up to next week and maybe have some fun there.
Q. When you were looking over that mid-range par putt on the last, did it ever cross your mind that this could be to move on?
DAVID LINGMERTH: Yes, it did.  I figured I was in a spot where I may be able to afford to miss it, but I really wanted to make it.  I didn't want to miss it and see what happens.
I thought if I made it, I'm through.  It was great to see that one go in for sure.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT