THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 6, 2017
David Lingmerth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Did it seem like the front was more gettable than the back?  They had some tricky pin positions on the back nine.
DAVID LINGMERTH: You may be right there, but I usually feel like the back nine is the more scorable one.
But, yeah, there were a few tricky pin positions out there today.  I shot 3-under and 3-under on both nines; didn't think it was a huge difference really.
Q. Were you surprised that you were able to lift, clean, and place it?
DAVID LINGMERTH: Not really.  We did it yesterday in the pro-am.  Had some mud balls.  It's not far off from being able to just play it down the way we're intended to really.
I think the course has softened up a little bit, but it's still in great shape.  I'll be surprised if we don't get a ton of rain that -- I'll be surprised if (indiscernible) tomorrow.
Q. (Regarding last Sunday.)
DAVID LINGMERTH: Yeah, like I said to someone else here before, if you gave me a fifth finish there before the tournament started last week I would've been pretty happy with it.
But the way the weekend went, 3-over, 3-over, obviously I was disappointed.  I don't want to dwell on that too much.  I'm going to take the positives away from it and go into this week and try to put the foot back on the pedal and put myself in contention again.  That's the goal.
Q. Really you've done that.
DAVID LINGMERTH: So far so good.
Q. David, I know Sunday at Quicken Loans International was a little bit disappointing for you, but you brought great form down here with a continued good performance.
DAVID LINGMERTH: Yeah, nice little start here today.  Played pretty solid all day.  Didn't really have my best stuff tee-to-green I didn't feel like.  Never really got in trouble.
Gave myself enough opportunities to get some putts to go in.  On the last four holes I got three nice putts to go in.  Puts me here at 6-under, and happy with the start.
Q. Was that an adjustment on the greens on the last three holes, or just you've given yourself enough opportunities where something is gonna drop eventually?
DAVID LINGMERTH: Yeah, that's kind of how it felt.  And the looks I did give myself on those last few holes were uphill putts, which usually helps, too, so I can be a little bit more aggressive with them.
Saw the lines really well.  The greens were rolling nicely.  Yeah, very good.
Q. Were you disappointed with the finish at Quicken Loans International or look at it as a building block you brought to the course this week?
DAVID LINGMERTH: I mean, if you gave me a T5 at Quicken Loans before the week started, you know, that's not a bad finish.  I can't go and be upset about it.
Obviously with the last two rounds shooting 3-over and 3-over, that's not really what I had in mind.
A little disappointed, but not going to dwell on it too much.  Just put the foot down on the pedal again and keep going.  Hopefully we can get ourself in contention again.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT