TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 24, 2017
David Lingmerth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Congratulations on a terrific round of 65.  You teed off 5 behind a proven champion in Jordan Spieth.  What was your mindset going out?  
DAVID LINGMERTH: Yeah, well, it's been quite windy today, and I thought if you can put together a decent round anything can happen.  Scoring hasn't been as low as you might expect on this golf course.  I figured a lot can happen still.  It's 36 holes to go, so I was fortunate enough to play some decent golf today and get a few birdies to go in.  So, yeah, happy with the 65.   
 Q.  One of two of those birdies, 15, this must have looked from the tee like it might have gone in the water, didn't it?  
DAVID LINGMERTH: Yeah, well, the wind was quite hard from the left.  I kind of put the water in play on purpose, thinking it was going to drift back.  Fortunately, it stayed out of the hazard and I was able to get that up-and-down for a three.   
 Q.  The birdie putt at 17, how are the greens putting this afternoon?  
DAVID LINGMERTH: They might have been the quickest today out of any of the days this week.  I really had it going on the greens today.  A great rhythm with the putter and great speed all day, which really helped you see the lines.   
 Q.  Finished 21st at last week's U.S. Open.  We know what a test that can be perhaps not a normal U.S. Open.  Is it nice to come to a place like this and kind of Decompress?  
DAVID LINGMERTH: Yeah, the U.S. Open, no matter where you play, it's usually a very long, demanding week.  I played a solid four days, but I was quite tired after the week was over.  Coming here, getting to kind of ease your way back into the week where you already know the holes.  Played here a few times already.  So kind of nice, relaxed feel.   
But we've still got a great golf tournament here, great players.  So you've got to really suit up and play some golf if you want to beat these guys.  But, yeah, always great to be here.   
 Q.  65, David, how exciting was that on a Saturday here at TPC River Highlands?  
DAVID LINGMERTH: Yeah, yeah, just trying to do it one at a time.  But it definitely feels good to kind of turn it around.  I started the day with a bogey, but I was very patient all day.  Had a great feel on the greens.  My speed with the putter was awesome and it helped me see the lines and I got a few to go in, so that felt really good.  Happy to be in a position where I think I may have a chance tomorrow, so really looking forward to that.   
 Q.  26 putts and an exciting birdie at 17.  It's always got to be a thrill to birdie that particular hole on this layout, right?  
DAVID LINGMERTH: Yeah, absolutely.  That hole can play really tough.  I was able, actually, to make a birdie there yesterday.  Today as well.  So 17 has been nice to me this week.  I'm hoping that I can keep it going for tomorrow.   
 Q.  Other than a bogey at the 1st, it was smooth sailing after that.  How did you put together the 65?  
DAVID LINGMERTH: Yeah, like you said, not the start I wanted, but tried to stay patient today.  I really had a great feel on the greens, great speed all day, which helped me see the lines and I was able to get a few putts to go in.  So that really helps.  But all in all, I'm feeling pretty good about my game.  I could have struck the ball a little bit better today, but I'm right where I need to be to hopefully have a chance at it tomorrow.   
 Q.  (Inaudible) was on fire today compared to the last two days.  What was going right today?  
DAVID LINGMERTH: Like I said, I had a great rhythm.  It started on the practice green.  I really liked the way my stroke felt.  Just try to keep that momentum going and not try to force the issue too much.  Just trust what I'm doing out there.  Yeah, it really worked today, so it was nice.   
 Q.  You put together a heck of a stretch here.  12, 15, and tied for 21st finish last week.  How has your game come together?  
DAVID LINGMERTH: Yeah, it's been kind of a tough year for me, actually.  I've been working hard, trying to find my groove again.  I kind of felt the momentum trending in my direction again at Crowne Plaza, Memorial, made it through there to the U.S. Open in the qualifier.  Yeah, just kind of trying to keep the foot on the gas.  Hopefully I can make something happen here.  Yeah, really looking forward to tomorrow.   
 Q.  How did you feel out there?  Right now you're tied for third.  When you came off you were tied for second.  How did it feel?  
DAVID LINGMERTH: Yeah, it felt pretty good.  Been a pretty solid week this week for me.  But wasn't until today that I really felt comfortable on the greens.  So that was probably the main reason I was able to put together a 65 today.  My speed and stroke felt really solid, and I was able to see the lines really well and get a few to go in.  So felt really good on the green, and I hope I can keep that going tomorrow.   
 Q.  You look at what you did the last week at Erin Hills, very solid finish.  Do you carry momentum from week to week, do you feel like?  
DAVID LINGMERTH: Sure you can.  I feel like I've been working hard all year and haven't really had much success.  But these last few tournaments, starting at Dean & DeLuca a few weeks back kind of felt like my momentum was trending.  I've been feeling pretty solid about my game ever since.  The U.S. Open is always a tough week.  If you can hang in there and play three solid rounds like I did, that's always a great confidence builder for what's to come.  So I'm trying to carry that forward tomorrow as well.   
 Q.  As it stands right now there will be a few you might be chasing tomorrow.  Do you feel like you have another low one in you?  Do you like the position of coming from behind?  
DAVID LINGMERTH: Yeah, I really don't mind.  I'd like to be good at being ahead and expanding my lead and stuff like that too.  But being where I'm at right now, it seems like it's going to be a little chase tomorrow.  Obviously Jordan and a few other players that are really good are ahead of me.  It just comes down to one shot at a time and being patient.  Hopefully things will go my way.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT