THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
June 1, 2017
David Lingmerth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Obviously a good round, probably 65 matches your best at Muirfield Village.  Talk about the round.  The eagle on 15 was a highlight?  
DAVID LINGMERTH: Yeah, that was a nice one, that was a bonus one when you can knock a 3-wood to about six feet, I think it was and managed to make that putt.   
I was rolling it good all day and got off to a good start with birdie on No. 1 and gave myself a few more opportunities on the first nine.  But really got going there, 5, 6, 7, got one on 8, as well.   
Got off to a nice start and trying to plug away.  Had three bogeys on the back nine, but that eagle and a couple more birdies, managed to scrape around for a pretty good 7-under.   
 Q.  It's such a mental game.  How much does that help you?  
DAVID LINGMERTH: Obviously having won here it brings back good memories.  And the other years I've played here, I've always loved it.  I haven't really contended all the way until Sunday, I guess, those other years, but I've always felt good about this place.  And just I like the way the course sets up for me.  And I feel confident out here.  I roll the ball really well on the greens, I have every year I've been here.  Just overall pretty good feelings about this place.   
 Q.  How difficult is it out there?  We've had wind, it's been dry at least for the last few days.  What's it like now and how much tougher can it get?  
DAVID LINGMERTH: I haven't looked too hard at the forecast.  I think we may get a little bit of rain, which obviously will help with the approaches into the greens, but this course can play pretty long at times if the fairways get wet.  I don't know, I think it will even out with a little bit of rain.   
Today the wind was down compared to last few days.  Last few days it really played tough out there.  Today I felt like it was a pretty good day to shoot a low number and I was able to do it.  I'm sure there's a few other guys out there shooting pretty good numbers.   
 Q.  Are you struggling or how has it been going?  
DAVID LINGMERTH: Golf is a funny game.  It's very humbling.  Been working hard all year and never really found my groove, I guess.  But sticking to it, and all along I knew that this stretch coming up here, I really like it.  Colonial last week, I love this week, obviously, and there's a few more tournaments here coming soon that I really like.  I just kind of try to stay patient all year knowing that it will probably start turning around eventually.  I feel like my game has been trending in the right direction.  So I've got some stuff I need to work on, but it's getting there.   
 Q.  What did winning here do for you?  
DAVID LINGMERTH: I mean, obviously anyone who plays on the PGA Tour and haven't yet won, they probably believe in their head that they can win, but just getting that black on white and I can win out here, that's a huge, huge thing.  So having gotten that out of the way, I feel just tremendous.  Obviously I haven't been able to win again since, but I know for sure that I have the capability to win and that means a lot.   
 Q.  Are you following any of the routines that you did two years ago?  
DAVID LINGMERTH: I tried to kind of do the same things a little bit hotel-wise and stuff like that last year when I came back to defend.  It didn't really work out again that year, last year.  So, yeah, kind of switching up a little bit, I guess, this year.  So I guess the answer is no.   
 Q.  Just 7 of 14 fairways, these greens can be kind of difficult to attack from the rough, but you were able to score.  Walk us through that.  
DAVID LINGMERTH: Yeah, I managed to still get some decent lies out of the ones that I missed the fairway.  And that's the one thing, I usually rely a lot on my driving, hitting a lot of fairways.  And that's the one thing about today I'm kind of disappointed, I didn't put the ball off the tee where I wanted to, where I needed to.  So that's something I'm going to go work on now.  But every other facet of my game feels good.  Hopefully I can improve on that.   
 Q.  What's your mindset for tomorrow?  
DAVID LINGMERTH: More of the same, you know.  One shot at a time.  See how many birdies we can make.  I won this one in the playoff last time.  Every shot really counts, doesn't matter if you're 7-under in the first round or shooting over par the first three rounds, every shot matters.  Just one at a time.  If the course stays the same as it was today --   
 Q.  Did you plan this scoring yesterday?  
DAVID LINGMERTH: You know, yesterday was really, really windy.  So I knew it wasn't going to be as windy today.  But with the wind being down, I figured the scores would be way lower than they were -- how tough it was the last few days.  I didn't know how low I was going to be able to go.  But I felt good out there, so hopefully I can keep going.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT