THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 11, 2017
David Lingmerth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You got off to a pretty good start this morning, front nine your back nine, but the first nine that you played was pretty impressive and then just a little struggle coming in.  But you still must be satisfied with your round.  
DAVID LINGMERTH: 69 I feel like is always a pretty decent score around this place.  Obviously the conditions were really nice there early on and I was able to take advantage of it, starting with four straight birdies there.  Didn't really keep that flow going on my last nine, I missed a couple shots but I kept giving myself an opportunities.  I wasn't playing bad, I gave myself some opportunities, the ball wouldn't really go in the hole for me.  But I'm playing pretty nicely, I think, so nothing I'm worried about.   
 Q.  Is it a different feeling playing at home with family around?  
DAVID LINGMERTH: Yeah, it is my fourth PLAYERS now and I think I've always had guests from Sweden coming over to visit and it's always a treat.  Get to sleep in your own bed and play at a great event like this one, so it's always something I'm looking forward to every year and always enjoy it.   
 Q.  What can you draw on from your past experiences here and you played this course a bunch, but how can you use those experiences to help you this week?  
DAVID LINGMERTH: Well, like you said, I played it a bunch, I've had my misses and I've had my great moments as well and pretty much every time you walk around this place you try to learn something new and I feel like I should have enough experience to make it be a fun week here, all the way through Sunday.  So, yeah, just looking forward to a continuation of this tournament.   
 Q.  What's your best moment been here so far?  
DAVID LINGMERTH: Well, in 2013 when I finished second to Tiger, I mean that was a great week, so I don't know if I can point out a single moment, but that was an awesome experience start to finish.   
 Q.  Did you think at all about going for 12 or was it a lay up?  
DAVID LINGMERTH: 12, no, that was a lay up.  No, I feel like it's a lots of guys have the approach, I think, that they're going to go for it and even if they hit it in the water they can still get it up-and-down and make a par and they're fine with that.  I think I'm going to try to lay it up and wedge it in there and give myself four good looks at birdie and if I only make one or two of them, so be it, but I'm going to try to get as many looks for birdie as I can and not risk hitting in that water.   
 Q.  Can you see a scenario where you're driving it really well and you're 11 holes in it and you think I'm going to give it a crack or are you pretty committed?  
DAVID LINGMERTH: I'm pretty committed, yeah.  I'm not going to rule it out 100 percent, but I'm pretty committed to my strategy there, yeah.   
 Q.  With all the changes that they made you're as familiar as anybody with the golf course, is it better for scoring, is it better to be more aggressive, how do you see it?  
DAVID LINGMERTH: I think with the, I don't know exactly what the weather's going to look like, but if it's windy I think it's going to be pretty tough for scoring because firmness of the greens.  Sure, there's some gettable par-5s and a few holes you can hit wedges where you can be fairly aggressive, but for myself, I know some of the guys hit it pretty far, hit it high, can stop it maybe a little quicker on the greens than I can, but it's really hard to be aggressive with anything over a 9-iron out here, so I'm not expecting it to be super low scoring, if the wind is up.   
 Q.  What did you hit off the tee on 12?  
DAVID LINGMERTH: 4-iron today.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT