UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
December 21, 2009
Chris Hall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q. What do you think of their offense and defense? 
 CHRIS HALL: They're really good. Really good. 

 Q. It's obviously a great time to be playing in the BCS. Did you have a special gift as a kid that you always remember or cherish? 
 CHRIS HALL: You know, as a kid, everybody always hated getting clothes, you know. You remember that, you know? You got like a T-shirt. I always wanted some kind of toy. So anything that was like play, you know, where I could be a cowboy or anything like that is what I always liked, rather than clothes. But now I'm thankful for clothes. 
 Actually, Chip gave this to us a few days ago, and I really like this. You know, like now, my grandma gives me razors, I think that's great, you know. I enjoy that now. 

 Q. She's trying to tell you something?
 CHRIS HALL: That I need to shave, probably, yeah.

 Q. Talk about how effective you and Colt and Jordan have talked about your Christianity that it allowed them to open up and talk about it as well? How much influence did you have? 
 CHRIS HALL: Yeah, well, man, it's wonderful. I didn't even know that. But, you know, I think that's probably the case for a lot of things. You know, often times it's the things that just a few people notice that make the most impact. 
 Like I'll give you an example. Colt has an excellent work ethic, and his character is amazing. Right after the Kansas game, before the Baylor game, we had that short week. I came up here on Sunday, we actually had the day off because it was a short week. We usually come in there and get a lift and that kind of thing. 
 But everybody had the day off. We came up there later in the day for the meeting, and Colt comes out of the weight room. He's been in there getting after it, you know. There's probably only a few of us who actually saw that. 
 But to see, man, this guy's character and his work ethic in doing that, that made a big impact on me. And so for high school students to say that about us three and others getting, you know, being open, speaking about Christ and that having an impact on them, I didn't expect that, but how wonderful.
 And you know what, maybe from other examples like Colt's, maybe it's not surprising, but we should have expected it, but I didn't. Yeah. 

 Q. Can you describe how exciting it is to get to play in the BCS? 
 CHRIS HALL: It's going to be a blast. What a great consummation to my career here and all our seniors for sure. Getting to go back will definitely be special and be fun. I got to go there my first year. But this time, you know, probably after four years of spring trainings and summer workouts and all that kind of good stuff, I imagine it may mean a little more. So what a special treat for our seniors.

 Q. Can you talk about the guys having that chance to play?
 CHRIS HALL: Yeah, it's going to be a football game, you know. Whether it's in Pasadena or whether it's in Austin, Texas, that field's still going to be 100 yards long, about 53 yards wide, and we'll be playing a great team in Alabama for sure. 
 But it's still just a football game. Like they've played all their lives. So this one definitely has a lot of importance to it, but it's a game that they love and they'll enjoy playing. 

 Q. I hate to tell you this, but the guys they play, look like Suh. 
 CHRIS HALL: Yeah, I guess it's good we got to play Suh then, if we're going to be facing three Suhs.

 Q. Is that the first time you've heard them say that? 
 CHRIS HALL: I guess. You know, looking at Alabama's defense, for sure you can expect to see a great defensive line and a great linebacking corps. You know, being an offensive linemen I don't look much at the defensive back field, but you look at the stats and they don't lie. They are a great defense. So it's good that we got to play Nebraska. What a great preparation it will be for Alabama. 

 Q. So what is it that you saw against Nebraska that can help you? 
 CHRIS HALL: Well, you know, because, you know, Coach Muschamp and Coach Saban obviously used to work together and share a lot of the same philosophies and stuff. It's helpful to get to play our own defense every day in practice. So to get to play against another top, upper echelon defense than ours every day in practice, it's a big help. So that's been huge for us.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT