NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v COYOTES
May 18, 2012
Adrian Aucoin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Adrian Aucoin.   
   
 Q.   Are you the cavalry, down three, bring you in?  
ADRIAN AUCOIN:   I hope so.   I mean, obviously I'm hoping to play next game.   It's been real frustrating watching.   
   
 Q.   What have you seen from your vantage point?   
ADRIAN AUCOIN:   It's been frustrating on many levels.   I think obviously in the first couple games, we didn't play close to where we wanted to.   I thought we were better last game.   
The way the bounces have gone, the way other things we can't control have gone, has been pretty frustrating.  
   
 Q.   Are they almost playing your game?  
ADRIAN AUCOIN:   Absolutely.   They're playing some good hockey.   Everybody is working hard.   They're doing the little things right.   
That's the way we like to dictate the game.   I think we've let them control the flow a little bit too much.  
   
 Q.   Is it going to be Tip's decision?  
ADRIAN AUCOIN:   It's always the coach's decision, absolutely.   It's always tough to keep any player out, regardless of where they're at.   It comes down to whether the coach thinks you're able or not?   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
ADRIAN AUCOIN:   I'm ready to go.   I would have played in Game1 if I could have.   It's just the way it is.   
   
 Q.   At this point in the series, you're down 0‑3, how do you manage to find some hope?  
ADRIAN AUCOIN:   I think obviously if you look at the 3‑0, there's not much hope.   But we've done some good things, still.   I think a lot of times when the games have been tied, if we would have gotten a bounce one way or the other.   Until you lose the fourth game, there's always some hope.   I don't think we're looking at it that way.   
   
 Q.   We haven't seen a lot of guys here.   What do you sense the attitude is right now?  
ADRIAN AUCOIN:   I think the attitude is we can win.   That being said, there was an attitude of a little bit of frustration.   Like I said, there were some things we couldn't control.   Sometimes those are the toughest.   
If you go out there and don't play well, you can blame yourself.   When there's things you can't fix yourself, it's a little bit tougher.   
   
 Q.   How much of an advantage can a day off like this be, not just physically, but mentally?  
ADRIAN AUCOIN:   I think it can be really important.   I'm always the kind of guy that likes to keep playing, keep it rolling.   Seeing how we haven't gotten the results, it's nice to take a day, refresh the mind, come back and have a win on Sunday.  
   
 Q.   Dave was talking about the embellishment in the play.   What are you seeing out there?   Is it getting to you guys?  
ADRIAN AUCOIN:   It is when we get in trouble because of it.   I think obviously we all know the refs have a really tough job.   There's always a fine line.   But I always like to consider myself an honest player and I always admire the honest players.   I'll leave it at that.   
   
 Q.   You were in this deficit last year against Detroit.   Can you take anything from that experience?  
ADRIAN AUCOIN:   Well, I think Detroit was a different scenario.   I don't think we were even close last year, whereas now we really know how good we can be and we just have to play that way.   
As much as I'd like to take something from that series against Detroit, I don't think there's much to take from it.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel closer in this series?  
ADRIAN AUCOIN:   Absolutely.   Absolutely.  
   
 Q.   How so?  
ADRIAN AUCOIN:   It's just a matter of games.   We win one game.   Detroit kind of blew us out, didn't have much of a chance.   Even though L.A. has outplayed us, we know we have a chance.  
   
 Q.   Don't have to worry about the Winnipeg rumors?  
ADRIAN AUCOIN:   We don't have to worry about the Twitters, which definitely was a distraction.   We have a more resilient group now, hopefully won't bother us as much.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT