ROLAND GARROS
May 27, 2018
Maxime Janvier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. NISHIKORI/M. Janvier
7-6, 6-4, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. This is the first Grand Slam for you.  What was your reaction when you found out that you are going to play Nishikori in the first round?
MAXIME JANVIER: Yeah, it's my first main draw slam, but I played already qualification.
But when I play, when I knew I play Nishikori, I was not surprised.  I mean, it's a guy like every other player.  Every player playing very good.
So was nothing special more for me.
Q. You play aggressive that Kei has talked at the press conference.  Is that how you usually play or did you play more aggressive than usual?
MAXIME JANVIER: Yeah, I'm an aggressive player.  I need to work on it every day.  I hope one day it will pay off.  For me, I would like to be like Nishikori, of course.
But, yeah, every day I need to be aggressive like this.  If I want to have some success later, I need to play like this every day and work on this.
Q. Today you had 10 break points, but you couldn't convert it.  Is that because of the pressure or, you know, Kei raised his level when he plays against at the break points?  What is your thoughts?
MAXIME JANVIER: Yeah, for me, I had more, I think -- I didn't check -- but I had more break points than him.  And I played very good.  I mean, on break points I miss one or two times, but it's my game.  So, yeah, I return very well, and he was solid.
Today, it's not paying for me a little bit.
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.
Q. What satisfaction do you feel for having resisted, although you missed a few chances?
MAXIME JANVIER: Well, I'm really frustrated, because I gave it my all, and with my present potential, I'm not frustrated.  I'm more disappointed, rather.  I know that my level of game is improving.  Obviously when you work hard, you want your efforts to be rewarded.
Sometimes you feel, yeah, it's cool, and it's okay.  You're succeeding.  But sometimes you're really trying hard, and it's not very rewarding because you miss.  Actually, my dream is not only to play.  It's also to be in a good position.
So it's a mixture, I'd say.  No frustration, as I said, because I know I had a potential and I did the best of it.  It's more rather, okay, I have some expectations and I hope that one day it will pay.
Q. I know that you have already answered this question on the type of game you have, which is quite aggressive, but I want to raise a question more clearly.  Do you think that you were more aggressive today from the very start?  You say it's your normal game, but I have watched you several times, and I think today you really started very strong, more than usual.
MAXIME JANVIER: Well, actually, you're a bit right, indeed.  There were some tournaments where I played really strong and others at which I was 90% of the hardest I could play, and sometimes it paid.  But in some cases, I didn't.
It's true that I have a very aggressive game, and that's how I'm developing my potential, because I'm leading the match.  That was what happened in the beginning, but against somebody so strong, it didn't work.
But what I have to say is that on every single match that I play, I have to have the same mindset, the aggressive mindset, and that's what my coach was telling me.  That's the only way I have a chance to win, being aggressive.
Q. On this specific match, what were you lacking?  What would you say would make a difference?
MAXIME JANVIER: Well, I'd like to know.  Maybe you can tell me.
But one of your colleagues said that I had 10 break points.  It's just that it didn't work for me.  I wasn't in luck.
I'm going to try and continue.
Q. If there was one regret when you were 3-2, do you have any regrets?
MAXIME JANVIER: I had a good returning shot, and I was at 85% and I missed it.  Sometimes I'm at 100%, and I have a very good returning shot.
Every time, even though I had a very good return at the break points, he managed to keep on track.  That was what upset me a bit.  I think there was no change in my game.  I wouldn't know how to explain.  I'd like my game to pay off one day.  I'm very aggressive, and I'm proud because I'm doing my job.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT