U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 10, 2015
Cindy Ha
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. So that was a nice little birdie there on 18.CINDY HA: Yeah.Q. Tell me about that.CINDY HA: It was actually one of the toughest putts that I've ever had.  On 9, that green is just so tough, so that pin location, it's a tough one.  I had around 10 feet left to right, just about two feet of break, and so just curled right in.Q. Did you know that that was for the clubhouse lead?CINDY HA: I didn't know.  I actually didn't know.  Wow, all right.Q. That's got to be a good feeling after the first day?CINDY HA: Yeah, it is, but still, you know, the tournament, it's a long tournament.  It's kind of a marathon.  You have to think about the Saturday round.  It's good to have a good start, but I want to play better and just continue playing kind of like with this momentum going into tomorrow and then hopefully match play.Q. Tell me about the rest of your round today.  3-under, you clearly did pretty well out there today.CINDY HA: There was a lot of birdies and bogeys, that's for sure.  I think I only had two pars on the starting nine, and I finished 1-under on that nine.  A lot of birdies and bogeys.  Just I had it going for some holes and then I didn't, and just went back and forth, but to finish with 3-under, I'm really happy with that.  It was a tough 3-under, I'm not going to lie.  It's not like -- I mean, it could have been lower because there were so many birdies out there and the birdies that I had with all the bogeys, but I'm very happy with it because I wasn't really hitting the ball too well.  Yeah, starting off, I wasn't hitting the ball too well.  I can't believe I shot 3-under to be honest.Q. What do you think turned you around?CINDY HA: Just a few swing thoughts, just focusing on tempo and focusing on one shot at a time, and just really rolling with the punches.  You don't have to play a perfect game to have a good score.  You just need to kind of adjust and adapt to the surroundings and adapt to the circumstances, and that's what I did really well today.  I didn't really swing it too well, though.Q. How was your first year of college?CINDY HA: It was tough.  It's tough being away from home, but I think I adjusted really well.  It's not easy playing college golf and being on the road all the time and then you're at a school where it demands so much of your academic abilities.  I'm hanging in there.  It's tough.  It's not easy traveling and doing work on the road and talking to professors at office hours.  I figured out there's not a lot of time to myself, so when I do have that time to myself, I'm either napping or doing my nails or something just to take my mind away from golf and school.Q. That's a good transition for the next step in life.CINDY HA: Right, it is.  It is.  I feel very much more independent and just much more -- yeah, like a lot stronger as an individual.  I feel like I can take on the world.  Not really.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT