CITI OPEN
August 2, 2019
Peter Gojowczyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
P. GOJOWCZYK/K. Edmund   
6-3, 4-6, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You've had quite an interesting week to go from being a lucky loser to finding yourself playing in the semifinals tomorrow.  Describe what it's been like for you, the highs and lows of this week.  
PETER GOJOWCZYK: Yeah, what do you say?  It's an incredible week for me.  Yeah, beat some good guys.  Really the lucky loser one.   
Yeah, even today was a great match.  It was close.  In the end it was a little bit tight, too.  Was 40-Love up, yeah, then back to deuce, a breakpoint, then he got a breakpoint.  Yeah, it was close match.   
But I'm happy to beat Kyle this time because I lost twice against him, twice in three sets I think.  This one goes for me now.   
 Q.  As the number two in the qualifying, there was always this possibility to get into the draw.  When did you find out you got a spot in the main draw?  What were your plans this week had you not gotten that spot?  
PETER GOJOWCZYK: When I find out, was the second day.  First day I was signing up for lucky loser, you have to be here in the morning till the end and hope someone withdraw.  On the second day in the morning Tomic was the guy.   
Actually, yeah, I was surprised that I play here in Washington, D.C.  Now I'm in the semis.  Sometimes it's like this.  To be lucky loser and to be relaxed even in the first match and second, to be relaxed on the court, to hit the ball hardest what you can, don't think about it, that's maybe the key, yeah.   
 Q.  I can totally see how you would maybe not be thinking about it in your first match.  Obviously you've been able to string them together.  Have you been able to play free, go out on court every single time?  Has that been the key for you?  
PETER GOJOWCZYK: Three big guys?   
 Q.  Freely, without thinking about it, even though you're stringing together matches.  
PETER GOJOWCZYK: About the three matches?   
 Q.  Sorry.  I thought you were saying it's been working for you because you haven't been thinking too much on court, you've just been playing freely.  
PETER GOJOWCZYK: Yeah, no pressure.   
 Q.  I could see how it would be that way maybe in your first match.  Now you won the quarterfinals.  How have you been able to stay without that pressure?  That was a long question, I'm sorry.  
PETER GOJOWCZYK: Yeah, good.   
Yeah, maybe was also the key from the first match.  Rublev, he was coming from Hamburg.  He was playing finals there, so he was confident.  I beat him.  It was close.  It was almost three hours.  It was 7-6 in the third.   
To have some close matches, it's important because I lost a lot of matches even in the third set.  That's why I'm dropping also a little bit to 120.  Some personal reasons, too.   
But, yeah, now what I say, lucky loser, don't think about it, go for the shots, find my game.  I find it.   
 Q.  Random question.  Have you ever played the game Scrabble?  
PETER GOJOWCZYK: Again?   
 Q.  Scrabble, the word game, a board game.  
PETER GOJOWCZYK: Scrabble, no.   
 Q.  Have you played that before?  
PETER GOJOWCZYK: No.   
 Q.  Your name has the highest point value of any ATP name or WTA in scrabble.  I don't know if that's something you're proud of or aware of, anything like that.  
PETER GOJOWCZYK: No.   
 Q.  You go from a huge server to Kyle, who is not as big of a server.  What strategy changes did you make?  How did you approach the match today?  
PETER GOJOWCZYK: I know these guys.  I have, like, a game plan.  Saw some matches on YouTube or Tennis TV.  You find out how is it.   
Yeah, in the first two rounds was like most of the time some rallies, against Rublev and de Minaur.  Raonic was hitting, like, service.  You have to be ready on the return.  Actually, my good shot is the return, so it helps me a lot.   
I beat him in Halle on grass court, 6-4, 6-4.  I think I lost against him in US Open, but also close.  Today against Kyle, yeah, you have to be ready for the rallies, go for the shot, too.   
 Q.  Have you been getting any texts from coaches?  
PETER GOJOWCZYK: No.  I'm alone this week, so...  I don't have a coach.  I'm searching.   
 Q.  Aside from wanting to go as deep as you can, you're now into Montreal because of this result, you'll be in the top 100, maybe get US Open coming up.  How big is this for the weeks ahead?  This sets you up for more success.  Maybe a little bit more at stake for you than some others this week.  
PETER GOJOWCZYK: Yeah, that's true.  This week helps me a lot.  Even, yeah, I was thinking 40-Love for the special.  5-4, 40-Love, I was thinking, Okay, you have a chance for the special for Montreal.  Now I get the special.  I'm very happy to have it.   
Again, I'm top 100 now.  It helps me for the planning for the tournaments, even for after US Open.  But for US Open, I'm in the quallies right now, yeah.   
 Q.  Have you been the lucky loser many times before in your career?  
PETER GOJOWCZYK: That's a good question.   
 Q.  Not a lot?  
PETER GOJOWCZYK: Not a lot, yeah.   
 Q.  Who are you traveling with this week?  
PETER GOJOWCZYK: This week?   
 Q.  Yes.  
PETER GOJOWCZYK: Alone.   
 Q.  No physio or anything?  
PETER GOJOWCZYK: Zero.  Here on this tournament is some Germans, Struff, Krawietz-Mies, French Open champions.  Krawietz and I played together in club matches at home.  He's a good friend of my.  But now I'm alone, yeah.   
 Q.  Generally in life, before this week, did you consider yourself a pretty lucky guy, or this is an exceptional sort of thing?  What is your luck like away from the tennis?  
THE MODERATOR: Do you usually have good luck away from tennis?   
PETER GOJOWCZYK: Yes, why not?  I don't know what can I say.  I think everyone has some luck, yeah.  This week I am the one.   
 Q.  How do you think you fit in with the current face of German tennis?  Your name is recognizable only because it's such an unusual name.  Most casual fans here in the States know Jan-Lennard Struff and maybe not many other German players.  How would you describe the current state of German men's tennis?  
PETER GOJOWCZYK: What do you mean actually with this question?   
 Q.  A good quality group of players overall compared to other generations?  
THE MODERATOR: Zverev, as well.   
PETER GOJOWCZYK: What do you mean with Zverev?  I don't know.   
Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT