CITI OPEN
August 1, 2019
Peter Gojowczyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








P. GOJOWCZYK/M. Raonic
6-4, 6-4
PETER GOJOWCZYK: I beat Rublev in the first round 7-6 in the third.  It was tough, but he was, I think, very confident.  He comes from Hamburg, and I'm very happy to win this match, too.  But I think today I had a good job, yeah.
Q. And you won so convincingly, and I was wondering what your strategy was going in against such a big server today like Milos?
PETER GOJOWCZYK: Yeah, you have to do your things well and believe in your game.  My game is like -- I have a good return, so I like to play big servers, and yeah, it worked well today.
Q. Do you prefer somebody with a lot of pace on the serve versus maybe Donald who doesn't have such the big serve, and how does that help you?
PETER GOJOWCZYK: Against big servers?
Q. Yeah.  Do you use the pace from their serve --
PETER GOJOWCZYK: Yeah, maybe.
Q. So your next match against Edmund, do you have any thoughts on what you might need to do to be successful?
PETER GOJOWCZYK: Yeah, it's a tough opponent.  I think I played against him twice.  I lost twice.  So yeah, maybe what I do the days before, like hitting hard from the baseline to take the ball early, that's important to play a big guy as this.
Q. Do you do anything to adjust to such hot weather and climates like this?  Do you change your game at all?
PETER GOJOWCZYK: Not really, but it's very humid here, and yeah, I had -- not really the day session because today was the second after 2:00, so tomorrow is at 2:00, it's completely in the heat, so we'll see how is it.
Q. One question for everybody who looks up to you and tries to improve their game.  Is there one tip you can give amateur players to help them improve and get better?
PETER GOJOWCZYK: Take the ball early.
Q. Did you have any idea coming in this week that it would shape up the way it did, the fact that you got back into the tournament after being knocked out, to get in as a lucky loser, now you've won some matches?
PETER GOJOWCZYK: What do you mean with this question?
Q. Well, let me rephrase.  How do your wins this week -- does it give you confidence going into the rest of the hard court season?
PETER GOJOWCZYK: Yes, true.  It gives me a lot of confidence, you know.  But it dropped a little bit because my best ranking was like top 50, 39.  And yeah, some personal reasons, too, but -- I have no coach anymore, so I'm here alone, and yeah, it's a little bit complicated the last weeks.  But yeah, now I'm back and I'm getting a lot of confidence now.
Q. So maybe a good tryout for hopefully a coach who's looking to take on a new client that maybe you'll be able to find a new coach soon?
PETER GOJOWCZYK: Yeah, hopefully.  That's actually my next step after this tournament.  I go home and then on to search for a coach for the US Open then.
Q. So you'll take some time off --
PETER GOJOWCZYK: After Washington, yes.  I don't go to Montreal and Cincinnati.  I go home.
Q. How would you describe the current state of German men's tennis, with you and Jan-Lennard?
PETER GOJOWCZYK: And the German doubles players?
Q. And the German doubles players who won the French Open title, Kevin and Andreas?
PETER GOJOWCZYK: Yeah, we know each other well.  I think Struff was playing well, too, yesterday night, but it was tough luck, and he lost against Thompson who's also a good opponent.  I think it was 7-5 in the third.  Even the French Open champion, Kevin and Andy, they're supporting my match today, so it was nice.
Q. That's great that the others are out there --
PETER GOJOWCZYK: Supporting, yeah.  It helps you a lot if you stay here alone.  Yeah, I'm very happy.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT