NHL ENTRY DRAFT
July 8, 1995
Jeff Ware
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
It was an incredible feeling.  I can't explain it.  I grew up watching the Leafs. You know, they have always been my favorite team.  My brother is in the organization.  So it's really a dream come true. 
 
Pardon me. 
 
I had a little bit of an idea, but it's really kind of a guess.  You can't really get too involved.  I'm just going to really go with what happens. 
 
Yeah. I thought of it and I think it comes with the territory; so, I think I'll be able to handle that. 
 
I think I'm a physical defenseman.  I try and use my size to my advantage and my skating to defensive now but I'm trying to work on my offensive game and I'm adding dimension to my style.  Thank you. 
 
Since I've arrived in Edmonton? 
 
Through out the whole year. 
 
Probably 10 to 15 teams all together. 
 
Well, I heard rumors that may be Buffalo was interested or Hartford as well in there. So, I was kind of crossing my fingers. 
 
I think they probably want me to use my size to be a tough defenseman and aggressive player and hopefully I'll be able to play well. 
 
It's a dream come true.  It's my hometown.  I couldn't ask for anything and it's incredible. 
 
Yeah.  I was really happy.  I think it was kind of a preparation year for me for next year.  Being the rookie in the league, I'm trying to get the feel of the ropes and just get a sense of OHL and think next year it will be a great opportunity to prove myself so I think next year will be a great year. 
 
No, not at all.  It gave us time to evaluate and make it much harder.  I have no problem with that.  
 
He was assigned a contract last spring and is going to St. John's next year. 
 
Yeah. Well as far as he has been involved in the class action from the beginning so he's all positive; it's been really great.  We're both excited. 
 
Mike. 
 
I have never played with Mike,. This is actually my first year playing against him.  I think we've worked well together and hopefully we'll lead the team. 
 
Yeah, I'd say so. 
 
Well, I've heard rumors that Toronto was interested but actually the drafting actually worked out really well.  I'm not really concerned with the draft or anything all that really matters is playing next year and the puck drafts.  So as far as that's concerned, I'm not concerned at all with how the rankings or anything like that. 
 
Yeah. I think there's definitely a connection there if you had the Memorial Cup you get more exposure.  You play a higher caliber of hockey. There's definitely a link there.  Yeah, I guess us losing might hurt a little bit, but it's really how you play when you're out there.  
 
There probably did a little and actually for me to take a little longer, but I think I can grow up in the same caliber as the top five guys. I consider myself in the same category as them.  I don't think that will be a problem at all. 
 
Yeah. The World Junior would be one of my highest goals.  I'm going to camp August 12th.  I think it is to Montreal.  And think our team goals, we're going to have a great team next year so hopefully I'll be wearing a letter next year and lead the team to the Memorial Cup.  That would be great for our team. 
 
Yeah. I think so.  But I think I think I can adapt to anyone's style of game.  I think I can play a fast, like good skating game or a tough, like tight game so I think I can adapt to any sort of game sort of. 
 
Yeah. I think it kind of works both ways.  It would be a nice time.  All my family and all my friends are around and this is my hometown and everything. There is -- and have a spotlight.  I guess than, a guess people look for flaws so it works both ways.  So, I think I'm up to handling that. 
 
Mike is up in the stands. 
 
I think he was in section 101.  
 
I was born May 19, 1977 in Toronto. 
 
Yeah. 
 
I lived in the Lawrence Park area of Toronto.  I went to school in Lawrence Park high school.  Before that, I went to Blessed Sacrament.  A Catholic school and since I was NHL, I was living at the school there. 
 
I have two brothers. 
 
Tim, he is 23 he goes to Queens. 
 
Yeah. 
 
He is the defensive captain of the team.  He is a line backer.  So he's like a little brick. 
 
Yeah. 
 
Yeah. 
 
Debbie. 
 
Yeah, school is definitely one of my main proprietors. 
 
I don't have a really great idea. Right now I think -- right now I'm leading into the business area into the economics and math and all that. 
 
Next year I'm going to finish my high school the first semester and afterwards I'm going to do a course at UFT.  
 
I finished grade 12 this year. 
 
My dad is the president of the company that made trivia pursuit.  I guess he runs the business and takes care of their financial situation. 
 
No, no. 
 
Yes. 
 
That was -- I think it was 10 years ago.  I'm not exactly sure though. 
 
I'm not exactly sure.  I know before he was involved in law he was practicing law, but as -- how did he get involved, I'm not really sure. 
 
Yeah, well we, of course, get to visit the owners and go on trips and stuff and actually have my dad -- all the pressure of my dad with practicing a lot.  He's enjoyed it a lot. 
 
No, I don't get to -- it's a little too expensive for me. 
 
I'm working on it.  I'm working on my game. 
 
Thanks a lot.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT