SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE MEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 13, 2021
Keon Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Alabama 73, Tennessee 68
 THE MODERATOR:   We're joined by Keon Johnson.  Questions.
 Q. You had a really good first half.  What was the feeling going into the first half?  What was the key to the success in the first half?
 KEON JOHNSON:   Well, the first half my teammates, we do a great job on the defensive end which led us being able to run the court, get open transition looks, which I feel like that's the type of team we are.  That's what led to the first half that I had.
 Q. The second half run, I think it was 35-15, Alabama, in the halfcourt what did they do to bother you guys, force turnovers?  What do you need to do better in the NCAA tournament?
 KEON JOHNSON:   Well, they packed the paint in on us, which we're a driving team.  We just had to get the ball moving side to side so we could get the shots we were looking for, which we didn't do, and it led to turnovers.
 For us, we just got to take care of the ball and stay locked in defensively till April.
 Q. How do you explain the way that keeps happening, where you play really good for 25 minutes, then the next 15 minutes are rough?  How does that keep happening?
 KEON JOHNSON:   Could you repeat your question, please.
 Q. How do you think it keeps happening where you have 25 good minutes, then 15 minutes where kind of the wheels fall off, never seem to get back on?
 KEON JOHNSON:   It starts on the defensive end with us.  We quit getting stops on the defensive end, made turnovers.  I mean, we're in March, so we can't be having those mistakes up to this point.
 We get another chance.  We'll have to perfect it from here on out.
 Q. When y'all have the turnovers, seems like they come in bunches.  Is there something that just happens with this team?
 KEON JOHNSON:   We got lackadaisical with the ball.  It started with one and led through the whole team.  I mean, those turnovers that we had, they pretty much led to points, which can't happen.  We just got to take care of the ball throughout the whole game.
 Q. What were the last 24 hours like, given the situation with John?  How much of that emotion kind of play trying to win one for him?
 KEON JOHNSON:   Well, certainly we always talk about having each other's back.  He did say that he wasn't going to be playing.  But that meant for the next guy to step up and take ownership and execute our game plan going into the game today.
 THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT