DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 26, 2014
Somdev Devvarman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. JAZIRI/S. Devvarman
  6‑3, 7‑5 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You had your chances there in the second set especially, didn't you?  
SAMDEV DEVVARMAN:   Yeah.   Yeah, I definitely did.   You're right.   
   
 Q.   How do you feel about the match overall?  
SAMDEV DEVVARMAN:   Well, I mean, obviously he played better than me today.   I didn't play my best tennis, no question.   
Started off slow, and then, you know, I thought I fought my way back into the second set, and even though I wasn't quite feeling so good on court, I felt like I gave myself chances.   I just didn't execute when I needed to.  
Disappointing for me, but, you know, just like always, I'll go back to the drawing board and see what I can do to get better.  
   
 Q.   How big is the difference between playing in Dehli and playing here?  
SAMDEV DEVVARMAN:   I mean, conditions‑wise, very different.   I mean, it's a completely different court, different ball, different surface, different everything.   Pretty different.  
   
 Q.   Big difference in the standard, as well?  
SAMDEV DEVVARMAN:   Standard, yeah.   Obviously you have the best players in the world playing here.   Best players in the world weren't quite playing in Dehli (smiling).  
But, you know, I guess Malek and me, we're both pretty accustomed to playing challengers and obviously it wasn't a question of Malek's level that I wasn't used to.   I think I just ‑‑he played a better match than me, played the important points better than I did.   That's why he won.  
   
 Q.   You said you were not feeling good.   Is there anything in particular?  
SAMDEV DEVVARMAN:   No, I mean, nothing, no excuses, really.   Just sometimes you get on the court and you don't feel great.   So that's it.  
   
 Q.   Have you seen him play before?   You practiced with him?  
SAMDEV DEVVARMAN:   Yeah, yeah, few times.   He's been on tour for long enough now, three, four years, maybe more.   Yeah, he's a good player.  
I mean, I have seen him play before.   We're friends off the court.   No problem.   The guy is a good player.   Obviously he was top 100 before for a reason.   I congratulate him on a good effort here today and yesterday.  
   
 Q.   What are the positives you take from this tournament?  
SAMDEV DEVVARMAN:   Well, a lot, for sure.   You know, I feel like if I'm playing good tennis I'm going to give myself a chance against a lot of players in the world, most of them, in fact, and I know that if I keep fighting and keep improving that I can play against the best.   
Obviously yesterday Delpo was a little hurt, but otherwise I felt like in baseline points I wasn't being outclassed or overpowered or outmatched.   I feel like for me that's a positive step.   I feel like I'm working hard, so I guess I'm doing the right things.  
If I clean up a few things here and there, I think I can get a lot better, as well.  
   
 Q.   What part of your game today do you think was a little lagging behind?  
SAMDEV DEVVARMAN:   Probably footwork.   I felt like I was striking the ball okay, but I wasn't quite moving to it like I usually do.  
Maybe the matches have taken a toll a little bit.   I have played a lot of tennis.   This is my of fifth week in a row.  
But like I said, no excuses.   The guy just played better than I did today.  
   
 Q.   There is lots of like Indian kids as well, because we haven't had many Indian players, who look up to you.   Do you have any advice to them?   You have done such an amazing job to get this far for an Indian player.   Do you have any advice for them?  
SAMDEV DEVVARMAN:   Yeah, I mean, first of all, thanks, and it's nice for them to follow me, I think.   
The only thing I can tell any kid, you know, not just an Indian kid, is to work hard and enjoy the game.   As long as you're working hard and enjoying it, trying to find ways to get better and you're enjoying it, that's all you can really do with anything, not just tennis.  
That's kind of what I have been doing since I was nine.   Since I picked up the game I've been having fun with it.   Every time I'm on the court I'm looking for new ways to improve, and I'm having so much fun traveling around the world playing tennis.   It's not the worst thing in the world to do.   
Sometimes I feel down like now, but like I said, I hit myself in the head and I can get back up and it's not too bad.  
So, yeah, just to enjoy it and have fun.  
   
 Q.   Where do you go from here?  
SAMDEV DEVVARMAN:   I don't know.   Right now the schedule is Indian Wells, and I will see how I feel before I head there.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT