DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS MEN
February 25, 2013
Somdev Devvarman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. DEVVARMAN/I. Kunitsyn
  6‑1, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk a little about the conditions out there, how it was to play?   Windy?   
SOMDEV DEVVARMAN:   I mean, it's tough.   You know, not just the wind part.   I think, you know, the last couple of days I have been practicing in the sun, and the ball is just ‑‑it's so different to play, you know, during the day and at night.  
I haven't been on center court yet, so it was ‑‑I mean, it was different.   It was just different.   You know, but on the bright side I think I have done it one or two times, kind of knew what to expect with the racquet tension and the ball and kind of with the wind.  
So, I mean, even when I warmed up it was incredibly windy.   On center court, on a low one like this it swirls different places.   Sometimes the tennis looks ugly, but it's not easy to kind of get good rhythm and good rallies.   
Even the previous match, I think Roger was struggling a little bit.   I guess sometimes I think, you know, you've just got to fight hard and get these wins.  
   
 Q.   The first set you lost just two points on your serve.   Was that one of your best serving days?  
SOMDEV DEVVARMAN:   First set was.   Second set I lost one time.   But first set definitely.   Especially in these conditions I think, you know, it's really a huge advantage to come out and play short points on your service games.   
I think obviously everybody's plan is to do that and to kind of make the other guy work hard on his serve.  
That was my game plan going in, and obviously, you know, to have a game plan is one thing and to execute is another.   I'm happy with the way I served, with the way I played in the first set, for sure.  
You know, pretty much the whole match I think‑‑ you know, he raised his level a lot at the end.   I'm happy to fight through and get a win.  
   
 Q.   Coming to this match, you'd won just one set off him.   You have played him twice before.   What was going through your mind the first match?   You have been on a good run.   
SOMDEV DEVVARMAN:   I mean, honestly the last time I played him was 2010 Davis Cup and I was up a set, and set points in the second set, so it's not like ‑‑it's not like I got outplayed or anything.   I think I played a good match.   
I got unfortunate not to go up two sets to Love back then, but I'm a different player definitely mentally than I was back then I think, also.  
I have changed a lot of things in my approach to the game, to how I look at situations.   I think I'm serving well now, and, you know, I mean, honestly speaking, I like playing in these quick‑‑ when the air is a little quick, I like these conditions.  
That's why, you know, it's good for me to come back.   Honestly, more than anything, I'm just happy that I got a win.  
   
 Q.   Starting of this new association that you have started, can you comment on something?  
SOMDEV DEVVARMAN:   It wasn't just me.   (Smiling.)   It was a lot of people that were ‑‑I mean, I think the ultimate thing is, you know, a lot of players that have played in the past, a lot of present players, I think all of us are kind of on the same page.   
I think all of us collectively have always voiced a very similar opinion if not the exact same.   I think one thing is for sure is that all of us want the exact same thing as an outcome:   how do we make the scene, the tennis scene in India better, you know, for upcoming players, former players, current players, everything?   How do you make it fair and better?   
So I think that's ‑‑that is the whole goal of the association.   I don't think ‑‑ you know, people might be getting the wrong idea, but obviously since there have been problems, I think our goal is, first goal, only goal, is to make sure that we do a good job.   And it's‑‑ you know, whether there is somebody else doing a better job doesn't bother us.   Honestly, it's a good thing if there is kind of like a rivalry.   There isn't.   From our side I know there isn't.   
We just want the best for the players, want the best for the future of the game.   I think all of us are tennis enthusiasts, and we just want the best for it.  
   
 Q.   With so much going on now back home, how do you disconnect yourself?   Because this is a whole new phase for you coming back and you have been playing well.   How do you disconnect yourself from...   
SOMDEV DEVVARMAN:   Honestly it doesn't bother me when I'm on the court.   It almost gives me a better mindset.   You know, I have absolutely no regrets for what I'm saying, for what I'm doing.   
I just stand and taking the approach I'm taking.   I'm very clear with what I want to do, and I think that's almost an easier way to do it, I think.   This is the first time in my career where, you know, all the guys in the country I feel are really starting to get along, and there is so much support.   
I mean, every time I play a match, every time something happens, we're trying to fix up practice sessions in off‑seasons and things like that.   It never happen in my career.   
For me, I know for a fact that the players are, I mean, all behind me and everybody wants the same things.  
So for me, it's like the easiest thing to do because in my mind I'm doing the right thing.   I sleep great at night, you know.   I'm very honest with whatever questions I get.   I have absolutely no problem being honest.  
So, you know, some people like it; some people don't like it.   But that's kind of their problem the way they kind of take my comments.   I don't mean disrespect to anyone, you know.   I just want to be honest.   I think that's the best I can offer is my sincerity, my honesty, and hard work.  
Other than that, there's nothing else I can do.   I feel great about it.   
   
 Q.   Mahesh Bhupathi came out and said the association back home may have won the battle but have not won the war, and if they think so they are smoking some good crack.   But what's the next step?   Is it a boycott?   How do you escalate it so that they take you more...   
SOMDEV DEVVARMAN:   Like I said, our next step is always going to be the next step.   Regardless of what happens, our next step is how do we make it better?   
I think I have approached the same point in my career the same way in tennis.   I want to approach it a similar way.   I want to find ways to make the whole system better.   
You sit back and look at things that happen, and if it's good, you try and make it better.   If it's not good, you see what's not good.   I mean, it's as simple as that.   
Obviously there are a few issues that stand out, and, you know, whether ‑‑ for me, it's very easy.   You know, when those few issues stand out, you make those better.  
It's an ongoing process.   It's never going to be perfect for everyone.   You know, I think we're all smart enough to know that when there is a thousand people involved that not everyone is going to be happy, but we're going to do our best.   
I think that's it.   I think that's always going to be our next step.   
   
 Q.   There has been sort of infighting in Indian tennis, rumbling going on since the Olympics.   Why is it continuing on?   
SOMDEV DEVVARMAN:   It's been continuing for way longer than the Olympics.   (Laughter.)   As far as I remember, at least.   It's been on for a long time, honest.   
Funny things, you know.   You speak to older people who played, you know, the guys that played in the '70s, '80s, '90s, you go back and talk to these guys, have honest conversations over dinner or on the tennis court when you're hitting, and it's very similar things.   Not anyone goes back and really thanks the association for, you know, really helping their career or pushing them through.  
For me, I don't think that's how it should be.   I feel the same way.   You know, I know it looks like all of this just has been going on from the Olympics, but I think the reason that, you know, we have a president for the association that played in the '70s, you know, I think that speaks volumes for really why he would do that.   
There's no reason for him to come out and do that unless ‑‑ you know, he faced similar grievances to what we did.   Not just that, there's so many older players, so many people out there.   It's an ongoing problem.   You know, it's like politics.   No one's ever happy.  
Unfortunately, you know, we're all human, and I think the place that I stand right now in my life is‑‑ you know, people call you rebels and all sorts of nonsense.   For me, I don't understand why anyone would take offense to being called a rebel.   (Smiling.)  
I mean, if you don't agree to something, you stand up, right?   Right?   That's kind of how all of us are taught.   It's a very simple stance for me.   You don't like something, you don't lay down and take it.   Tell me what kind of person that is, and that's the kind of person I don't want to be.   
   
 Q.   Going back to the tournament, Baghdatis or Del Potro next.   Any preferences?  
SOMDEV DEVVARMAN:   No, not really.   Both of them are extremely tough players.   I have never played Del Po.   I mean, he's a fantastic player obviously coming off wins at Rotterdam, top‑10 player, such a great talent, such a good player, such a nice guy.   
Just yesterday I hit with him and I was asking him for his autograph for ‑‑I mean, he's a great guy.   I mean, it's a tough match that way, tough match with Marcos.   I have played him a few times, fantastic player.   
So for me to go out and win, I'm going to have to go out and play really, really well, serve really well and compete hard and have things go my way.  
It's just‑‑ you know, I will give it my best.   I know I have a tough match ahead of me and I'll see how it goes.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT