SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 24, 2015
Brian Henninger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. One hole on the back nine really hurt again.BRIAN HENNINGER: Yeah, you know like three holes this week.  I made a comment this morning that I shanked a shot on the first round, on the 16th or number 7. Then yesterday I made that triple bogey on 16. I made that double on the par-5 over here. So I played beautifully today though.  I did everything well.  I hit the ball well.  I got up-and-down well, I putted pretty well, considering the situation.  And I haven't been in done attention for a long time.  So I was just -- we love to test ourself, I was really proud of the way I played.  And I how it clearly ended, I had three putts I hit well coming down the stretch and I didn't chicken out on them.  I feel really good.  It was a great week.Q. How did it feel just to be in the hunt?BRIAN HENNINGER: Oh, it was fabulous.  Getting familiar with cameras and the TV and knowing full well that your family and friends are kind of following you through the television, yeah, that was kind of, there was a lot of noise the last couple days.  But that's why I play golf.  So it was really fun to be out there and competing like I was.Q. What about the test here on this golf course.BRIAN HENNINGER: You know, I kind of got a better appreciation every day for this golf course.  You have to be so exacting, you have to strategize, you have to be precise into the greens and if you don't it's going to be costly.  Then you have to be really clever and creative when you come to the short game stuff. So, it was a lot of fun.  It was a great test.  It was super beautiful, stimulating to look at, and obviously sue per difficult.  Colin looks like he's not having a probably today.Q. Any thoughts on how he's played?  I mean it was kind of all on him today.BRIAN HENNINGER: It was.  He's one of those guys, again, I'm in the that familiar with it, he's been in contention in Majors pretty much his whole career so he's very familiar with that.  He obviously hasn't always executed and performed like he wanted to, but even at his age, he's probably learned through some of his experiences and today he probably went out and said, you know what, I'm going to be pretty aggressive if it lends itself to that.  And that's probably what he did.Q. How different does it make a round of golf when you are in, it's not just a round of golf, you're in contention in a Major?BRIAN HENNINGER: It's so different.  It's hard to explain, really.  Because it's exciting and the people are social media now they're its face book and Twitter and it is your family and it's texting and everybody's pulling for you.  So, it's a lot of fun, but it's really fun to compete in a Major like this. In 1995 I competed really well at the Masters.  So I'm a little bit familiar with it, but not much.  I haven't had a lot of experience with it. But really proud of my game right now.  I feel really strong.  Last year at this event at in Harbor Shores I tore a tendon off my elbow.  And so it was kind of fun, it was kind of like redemption today a little bit for me with the elbow.  Because even when I tore this thing out there, I finished the round last year, just taking bullets, I felt like I was a Navy Seal or something.  But I wanted to finish the round. I thought of that today and I just thought, you're just lucky to be back here and I was really fortunate to be in contention and performing and feeling healthy.Q. Would you come back here to play if they had another one?BRIAN HENNINGER: Definitely.  I came to appreciate it.  As long as the golf course is set up correctly, which today there was a lot of favorable pins if you were smart and you were in the fairway.  You could get to the pin locations today.  It was really fun to just challenge yourself. Pete Dye is diabolical.  It's interesting to look at and you know that you're going to pay the price if you don't hit the green in the right area.  But we want to be tested and in these Major competitions, it needs to be tough.  And this was tough.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT