SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 24, 2013
Brian Henninger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How are you feeling after 36 holes of golf?
BRIAN HENNINGER:   I haven't competed for like five years until ‑‑ this is ‑‑ I turned 50 in October, so I played two Champions Tour events and this one.   I'm still kind of tip toeing back into it. 
There was a lot of good pin locations today that were super accessible.   I felt like there was a lot of birdies out there.   I didn't drive the ball exceptionally well.   I think if I would have driven it a little bit better, it was there, it was really nice this afternoon.   The wind's kind of calmed down and the golf course is absolutely marvelous.   You're playing off zoysia grass in the fairways and then you got perfect bent grass greens.   So I expect if the weather stays good the scoring will continue to be pretty good.

Q.   First senior Major.   Talk about that. 
BRIAN HENNINGER:   Oh, it's strange.   I know a lot of the guys, they look at me and they go, "There's no way that you're 50, Henninger."   It feels every bit the same as going to a PGA Championship on the PGA TOUR.   And I played in quite a few of those. 
So it's incredible what they have done here.   St. Louis is, I saw how big the crowds were, especially this morning.   The afternoon I could tell a lot of people went home.   But it feels every bit the same.   It's exciting to be here. 

Q.   Six birdies today?
BRIAN HENNINGER:   Yeah, I got ‑‑ it was kind of funny, because I haven't really been able ‑‑ I've competed pretty well in the first two events, but I've been really slow to kind of capitalize when I've had them.   And it's a little bit nervy, to be honest with you, I mean, even in Mississippi, my first event, I was incredibly nervous on the first tee. 
So again I'm just getting back into the swing of things and kind of learning about myself at 50. 

Q.   You're still in contention at 1‑under and how do you feel going into Saturday and Sunday?
BRIAN HENNINGER:   I think I'll try to do the same as I did today.   If I get my ball in the fairway, I think I'll have some good opportunities to make a lot of birdies.   And I think that, I think unless the wind really comes up, I see Kenny Perry's up there, and Russ Cochran, they have got a lot of experience out here.   They're both really good players.   So I expect them to continue to make birdies.   So I'm going to have to shoot a couple low scores to get back in the hunt.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT