GREATER GREENSBORO CHRYSLER CLASSIC
April 20, 2000
Brian Henninger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 BRIAN HENNINGER: Well, I mentioned outside it's nice to be in the winner's category
again, because you get some of these nice pairings. And a lot of times I think your spirit
is a little more, and you feel like your focus is better. That was helpful. And we were
just feeding off each other, and that was exciting. A lot of times somebody is left out in
the group and isn't contributing with all the birdies. But it seemed like all of us were
hitting a lot of good shots and making a lot of good putts. 
 
Q. Have you had a birdie string like that before in any of the events?
 
 BRIAN HENNINGER: Have I gone on one? Yeah, I've gone on a couple. We've played so much
golf, somewhere along the line I've done that. That was fun. I wasn't counting. Somebody
asked me if I made 8 or 9 birdies, and I said, "I don't know." That's when
you're playing good, when you're not worried about making a birdie on the next hole. 
 
Q. You started off with a bunch of pars. Did you feel you were hitting the ball good?
 
 BRIAN HENNINGER: I liked the way I was playing, and I knew the golf course was going to
play difficult right now, because of the rough. You're going to get some wind out there. I
liked the control I had with my golf ball. I missed a couple of putts. Sometimes you go
through the whole day and not make one. I liked the way I was hitting the ball. This week
it's going to be a ball striker's deal. The greens are going to be great. I think
everybody is going to make some putts. But if you hit it in the rough, you're not going to
have those opportunities. That was my goal, and I kept it out of the cabbage. 
 
Q. You missed 6 out of 11 cuts. What's been going on?
 
 BRIAN HENNINGER: I think last summer I was in contention a bunch of times. I finally
won the Southern Farm at the end of the year. And I think I anticipated coming out and
having that same feeling, and I haven't got that feeling. I've had some decent finishes,
but inconsistent for me. So I'm getting closer. And that's all I can -- it's not
necessarily a ball-striking thing, I think it's more just my mind. Not getting too -- I
think I was real aggressive early in the year, and I've toned that down. And I think I'm
playing smarter. 
 
Q. Brian, when you saw the pairings coming out, you talk about being in the winner's
category again. Last year the guys fed off each other that were on top of the leaderboard
and did the same thing. Were you thinking you had to do that when you came into the round?
 
 BRIAN HENNINGER: No, not necessarily. I don't think you anticipate -- you can't
anticipate much, because each day is kind of a strange thing. Each week is a different
atmosphere, the golf courses are all different. No, it's a privilege to be back in that
winner's category, because you're playing with guys -- Jesper is having a great year. Hal
Sutton just won -- they don't call it a major championship, but it's probably the biggest
event in the world. But I'm playing with two players that are on top of their game. If
that can't stimulate you, nothing can. 
 
Q. Were you surprised to see your name with them, and pleased at the same time?
 
 BRIAN HENNINGER: I'm always pleased when I get -- if it's Tiger, if it's Greg Norman,
or whoever, because you're going to get some people that are going to follow you, and that
support is a good thing. It creates karma; it creates good vibes. I like that. And if I'm
stuck with a couple of guys that people aren't interested in watching, then you just are
kind of out there by yourselves. 
 
Q. Did you miss any fairways today?
 
 BRIAN HENNINGER: I only missed one that I can remember. I may have been on the frog
hair or something once. But it was on No. 10, and I ended up being really close to a cart
path. And I had an opportunity to hit it, because most of the time it's just chop. I hit
it on the green and made a birdie. I hit it pretty close. Again, if you can get somewhat
of a lie, I don't think you can get a decent lie in that stuff. It's pretty excessive.  
 
Q. How many times do people bring up that Masters to you, and do you --?
 
 BRIAN HENNINGER: '95.  
 
Q. Are you remembered for something other than that?
 
 BRIAN HENNINGER: There's been a couple of other things. That one is one of them. I hit
a golf shot on the last hole in Atlanta with Daly, a lot of people remember that shot,
because I eagled that hole. I finished second. And I put pressure on him. '95, yeah. This
year it's been kind of an unfortunate thing for some of us. Not being in the top 50 in the
world, I didn't get to play The Masters, even though I won last year. That topic has been
brought up a lot.  
 
Q. Does that act as more inspiration to make sure you get to the money level?
 
 BRIAN HENNINGER: Absolutely. That's what I was telling the press all along the last few
weeks, you're not going to Augusta. They said: You should write those guys a letter.
Obviously players like yourself can compete at Augusta, because I did that one year. I
kept telling them that I have to improve. I have to get myself to the next level, so I can
be at the top 50 or 60 in the world and have the opportunity that a lot of these other
guys do. So again, that's how the Tour is. It's incentive-based; you play well and you're
rewarded. You have to concentrate on getting better.  
 
Q. Did you watch The Masters on television?
 
 BRIAN HENNINGER: Probably every shot, just like everybody else. I like to watch golf,
but that one I watch, like all great golf fans do. And I enjoy it every year, just the
same as I do when I'm there. 
 
Q. (Inaudible.)
 
 BRIAN HENNINGER: The year that I played well, I was in the last group with Ben
Crenshaw, and all I could envision is myself tapping in for par to win the tournament, or
birdie or whatever it is, yeah. 
 
Q. If I'm not mistaken, you only had one sub-70 round here before?
 
 BRIAN HENNINGER: Possibly. In a lot of years I enjoy coming to Greensboro. I like all
the people, it's very friendly. I haven't had any great finishes here. I enjoy the golf
course. It's a tough golf course. It's kind of a long hitter's golf course, absolutely.  
 
Q. What was the difference then in today and all your previous rounds here?
 
 BRIAN HENNINGER: It was kind of interesting. I looked back last year, I remember I made
the cut last year, I don't remember what I shot; but the second day there were some really
low scores, weren't there? And I teed off in the afternoon. I got here in the morning, and
people had just exploded from nowhere. And I considered this really a hard golf course.
And this year I said if those guys can do it, I can do it, too. I have to go out and think
there's some potential scoring out there, instead of being so defensive here. And again it
was momentum. If you just allow yourself some patience and see yourself making a couple of
good swings and a couple of birdies, things can happen on this golf course, just like a
lot of golf courses. 
 
Q. You took an offensive attitude?
 
 BRIAN HENNINGER: A little more today. There's some potential to score out here, even
though you don't think there is. Like you said, I'm kind of negative, I haven't had a lot
of good finishes here. 
 
Q. So you said the beginning of the year you felt like you were playing a little too
aggressive and you sort of backed it off. Are you going -- are you finding the right mix?
 
 BRIAN HENNINGER: Yeah, basically just to start my round out with a lot of patience,
don't jump ahead of myself and let things happen. That's what I was doing last year, but I
think somewhere your mind gets twisted and you think you're shooting all these great
scores, you might as well just continue. But you just can't force the feel, you have to
feel the force. That's how golf is. All we do is manage ourselves around out there. Just
playing quadrant golf; and when I do that, I'm playing well. 
 
Q. This round today has given you confidence for the next three?
 
 BRIAN HENNINGER: It's given me a lot more confidence on this golf course. Yeah, I'm
playing good. Again, if I can drive the ball well, I think I'll be real close Sunday,
because my short game is great.  
 
 BRIAN HENNINGER: 7, I basically hit six good putts, and finally one got to go in, about
20 feet. Then I hit a 3-iron on 8 that cut kind of the crest and went in there about five
feet and made it. Then I went for the green on 9 and kind of pull hooked one over in the
rough, and kind of had a pretty good lie in the rough. And I was kind of just almost
pin-high to the left going backwards and hit it about 4 feet and made it. And then hit it
by the cart path like I was saying on 10. Had a pretty good lie and got it up there about
five feet and made it. Then I hit it a foot on 11.  
 
Q. What club did you hit in on 11?
 
 BRIAN HENNINGER: 9-iron.  
 
 BRIAN HENNINGER: 13, I got a four foot pretty close to the green, probably about 15, 20
steps off. I was kind of on the upslope and chipped it about four feet and made it. Hit a
driver and a 9-iron on the next hole about 35 feet, and made it. And then chipped in on 17
from about 12 feet. I wasn't very far. I was just barely off the green.  
 
 BRIAN HENNINGER: I 3-putted 16, and it was just off the green there. And I tried to --
I tried my 4-wood putt and it came up about five feet short and missed it. 
 
Q. How far were you off the green on that?
 
 BRIAN HENNINGER: About an inch. 
 
Q. How far away from the hole?
 
 BRIAN HENNINGER: I was about 25 feet. I wasn't very far, either. I kind of misjudged
the lie. It was down further than I thought, and it kind of popped up in the air and
didn't go.  
 
Q. 18, did you miss a putt on 18?
 
 BRIAN HENNINGER: Well, I hit a driver and 8-iron. It was a little downwind, and it
jumped through the green about an inch. I was going to putt it, I was going to chip it,
and I decided to putt it with my 4-wood. Left it short four or five feet and missed it. 
 
Q. I thought you were talking about 16. 
 
 BRIAN HENNINGER: Oh, 16 was just a miss, lack of focus. I'm still mad. 
 
Q. So on 16 and 18 you used that 4-wood?
 
 BRIAN HENNINGER: No, I was putting on 16. 16 must have been about 40 feet. I cut the
slope and went down to the right.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT