DESERT CLASSIC
January 17, 2019
C T Pan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Tell me about your round today.  First round of the new year.
CT PAN: It was quit a surprise, because I would be really happy if I shoot something that starts with 7, because I took two months off.  So that was a very good round for my 2019.  I holed out for eagle on, what was that, 16?  From 160 yards out.  On 16, 160 yards.
Q. What club?
CT PAN: 8-iron.  So that was really cool because it's been awhile.  So I guess I'm due to do that.  But, yeah, it's very, just really solid round.
Q. Have you had a longer hole out?
CT PAN: I don't remember.  I don't think so.  I'm new to the TOUR.  This is my third year, so I don't know, I don't think so.  But, yeah, I made a lot of good putts and with the pin in too, so that was cool.  That was more like an experiment for me.  So I made it, so I guess it works.
Q. Did you keep the pin in for the whole round?
CT PAN: Not for the entire round but just for putts more than 20 feet I would say I kept the pin in.
Q. What's the thinking there?
CT PAN: I think the target is more vivid to me with the pin in instead of a hole.  Because when you have 20 or 30 feet out it's very small to see it.  So I think that it gives me better image, I guess.
Q. What have you been doing with your game?
CT PAN: And my wife can see the hole too, so that's good for her.  It's about teamwork.
Q. What have you been doing with your game for the last two months in terms of practice?
CT PAN: Honestly, just rest.  This is my fourth year as a pro.  Three years, I mean my first three years I pretty much played every tournament I can, so I think that I deserve a break.  So I took two months off and I only did, I only played two rounds, I did a couple things with junior clinic, junior camp.  And other than that I just rested and had a really good time with family.
Q. How do you feel mentally?  Do you feel as fresh?
CT PAN: I feel a little bit rusty.  I got nervous on the first tee shot and I hooked it.  Fortunately it was still alive.  Honestly, I still feel a little bit rusty, but I'll get back to it.
Q. During the time when you were working on your game, practicing, was there anything in particular you were working on or trying to improve coming into the 2019 season?
CT PAN: Not much, just trying to find my form.  Because I had a really good year last year and I played well the last two months of the year, so just trying to find the form and then get better on the putting.
Q. Obviously you have a brief history of playing this tournament, this is your third year at this tournament, and after missing the cut the first two times do you feel like you're starting to figure out how to play maybe at least this course if not the others?
CT PAN: Yeah, I mean I like Nicklaus, I like Stadium too.  La Quinta, I just don't get how a person shoots 12-under, because I always struggle there, my putting especially.  So hopefully I'll do better the next couple days and play on Sunday.
Q. Do you figure it kind of figures that you open with a solid round and you look up and you see Phil shot a 60?
CT PAN: Yeah, that's amazing.  Like I said, he does a lot of practice, maybe I should get on it.  Anything that starts with 6, under par, I'll be really happy the next couple days.  It is my first week, I don't want to push myself too hard because it's like a marathon out here.
Q. Is it a new routine you taking this much time off?
CT PAN: Yeah, I'm trying to.
Q. Something different your trying?
CT PAN: Yeah, because the last few years I played 31, 30 events every year, so I'm trying to play less events and hopefully I will play better.
Q. What's your expectations for this season?  What are your goals?  What are you hoping to accomplish?
CT PAN: Same as last year, I want to be in the TOUR Championship.  So I got a lot of work to do.
Q. Uncharacteristic weather for La Quinta.
CT PAN: Yeah, this is very weird.
Q. Did it help at being able to fire at pins, the greens being softer?
CT PAN: Yeah, the greens were softer, so you could go at them, because the last two years they tried to make it firm on three courses.  So it definitely played a little bit different and I think that's why the scores are so low today, 12-under and a bunch of 8-under and 7-under.  So it will be a fun week.  A fun weekend.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT