US OPEN
August 30, 1997
Alex Radulesku
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. You played Pete several times in your career. How would you describe where he is in
his game right now? 
 
 ALEX RADULESCU: Well, I think he's in good shape. Just one breakpoint today. He's
playing good. I had not so many chances. 
 
Q. Do you expect him to cruise through this tournament? Do you think anybody can beat
him right now?
 
 ALEX RADULESCU: Well, if he's playing like this and if he keeps his shape, he can win
the tournament. No question about it. But he has to win some more rounds. In a big
tournament, everything can happen. 
 
Q. It's so rare you get a breakpoint against him. I mean, you got one in the third set.
What happens to you when you get it? Do you get a little tight because it's so rare when
it happens?
 
 ALEX RADULESCU: Yeah. You don't get many chances. When you get one, you have to take
it. If you don't take it, then it's tough. On the breakpoint, I don't have a big chance to
win that point. 
 
Q. Disappointing?
 
 ALEX RADULESCU: Yeah, of course I'm disappointed. But I came into the match pretty
tired after the first two rounds. I thought that I have to be very lucky to win today
because I didn't feel that good. 
 
Q. You seem to be serving real well today. What separates Pete's serve from maybe
yours?
 
 ALEX RADULESCU: Maybe the difference, the key point, he's serving very big key points.
He was once Love-30 down and served two aces in a row, and it was 30-All again. So I think
the big points, he's serving better. 
 
Q. He's serving better than when you've played him before?
 
 ALEX RADULESCU: No. It's actually almost the same. When I played him times before, I
also had just few chances to break him. 
 
Q. Were you serving better than you served before?
 
 ALEX RADULESCU: No. I was serving okay today, but when I played him before, I played
him indoors. Indoors, the serve is more important than outdoor on hardcourt. And I think
it was okay today. 
 
Q. Do you have a flight out in 15 minutes or so? Did you book the flight right after
your loss? 
 
 ALEX RADULESCU: Well, I'm trying to catch a flight now tonight. I think it's going at
nine or ten o'clock. 
 
Q. When did you book it?
 
 ALEX RADULESCU: Well, I didn't book it. My coach is doing this. He left already. He's
trying to bring me on a flight. 
 
Q. You didn't have reservations, plane reservations, before you played Sampras, did
you?
 
 ALEX RADULESCU: No. My reservation was for next Monday. 
 
Q. Where are you going?
 
 ALEX RADULESCU: I'm going back to Germany. 
 
Q. What city?
 
 ALEX RADULESCU: Well, probably fly to Frankfurt. Either Hamburg or Munich. I don't
know. I have to decide. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT