AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 21, 2020
Donna Vekic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








D. VEKIC/M. Sharapova
6-3, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. I think this is fifth time into the second round. You joked on court that for once you'd like to get past that second round. What's clicked for you in the last 18 months to a year that you now have a top-20 seeding? What's the next step to get that third round?
DONNA VEKIC: Yeah, I have been working with Torben for the last two years now and we have an amazing connection and we have been working really hard.
I think what we have been doing on the practice court, it's all coming together on the match court, as well. We keep improving, and that's a good thing, you know. We keep going forward.
You know, there is still -- we both feel that there is still a lot to improve on. So, you know, we have a clear vision and we have amazing communication.
So I think that's been the main reason for my success.
Q. The second set you did go a little bit down, Maria started to rally, she tightened up those loose areas a bit. You managed to pull through, though. Is that a new maturity you're finding now you're able to dig deep in those kind of situations?
DONNA VEKIC: I just felt that at the beginning of the second set I was making too many unforced errors. I mean, she stepped up her game and, you know, I didn't follow. It took me a little bit to adjust. But definitely happy that I could come back in the second set, you know, and not go three sets.
You know, I raised my level, and I'm happy I managed to finish it.
Q. What's the most satisfying thing about the win today? Is it that it's your first one over Maria, just getting the nerves out of the first slam, the way you played? What's the most satisfying thing?
DONNA VEKIC: I mean, for me, I really enjoyed being on Rod Laver today. I think when I found out who I was playing, I knew it was going to be on a big court, so I was happy about that.
I enjoy playing on the big stage. But then always winning the first round of a slam is always relieving.
Q. When you're playing Maria now, does it feel like you're playing Maria Sharapova five-time Grand Slam champion or a wildcard ranked 100-something?
DONNA VEKIC: Yeah, definitely didn't feel like playing a wildcard. Maria is a great player, a champion. I practiced with her in the offseason and it was my first practice set, actually, and she's been practicing for a while. She killed me, like, 6-1. I knew it was going to be a tough match and that I had to bring my A-game.
Q. You were in Italy?
DONNA VEKIC: No, I was in -- I was practicing in Monaco. That was really close. Piatti is really close.
Q. You have been on the circuit a while. You know how tough it is. Could you take a moment to just reflect on Maria as a player and her career, winning on all the different surfaces, coming back from injury, to suspension, and so forth?
DONNA VEKIC: Yeah, I mean, as I said, she's an amazing player. She had some amazing results in her career. You know, her work ethic is pretty amazing. You know, I saw her training in the offseason and she's really working hard.
So I think her results will come for her, as well.
Q. Looking into this year and looking ahead, I mean, how much more settled do you feel at the start of this season compared to -- no?
DONNA VEKIC: No (smiling).
Q. Do you still feel like the nerves of the new season, the first slam and all that?
DONNA VEKIC: Yeah, I mean, you always want to start the year well. And you never really know, like, how you're gonna start, because everyone has done the hard work in the offseason, and everyone wants to start well.
But 64 players have to lose in the first round in Melbourne, and the Brisbane, Adelaide, it's a lot of nerves at the beginning.
But I'm quite happy so far (smiling).
Q. Does this win help settle the nerves or is it still going to be the same regardless going into the second round?
DONNA VEKIC: Yeah, I mean, for me, okay, maybe not here because I have never gotten past the second round, but I think after, you know, after the first round I relax a little bit and then I can just really take it match by match.
Q. You mentioned hard work in the offseason. You had Jimmy come visit you at some point during your training. Curious what that was like. It was cool seeing the behind-the-scenes stuff. Usually we just hear people talk about how hard they work without actually getting to see it.
DONNA VEKIC: Yeah, offseason is short and long at the same time. You know, the holiday part is short. But then when you're training for five weeks, you're like, When is this going to be over? You're dying by week one. Oh, I have five more weeks to go.
But, yeah, I think everyone sees what's happening on the match court. No one really sees the work that we put into -- okay, maybe some Instagram stories kind of show a little bit, but it's a lot of hard work, a lot of long days. You know, that's what really makes it worth it, you know, winning matches.
Q. On that, it seemed like within the last 12 months, maybe even a little bit longer than that, seems like you have kind of embraced a little bit more the photo shoots, doing clinics on-site, kind of just the behind-the-scenes stuff that you kind of have to do as a pro tennis player that's not involved with hitting a tennis ball. Seemed like before maybe you didn't want to do that as much. Now it seems like you're putting yourself out there a bit more.
DONNA VEKIC: Well, when you're winning, people ask you to do that kind of stuff (smiling).
But I have been enjoying it, you know. I'm really grateful that I enjoy working with the people that I work with, the WTA stuff. They are all so friendly so that makes it a lot easier, as well, and a lot more enjoyable.
Q. Maria has had a lot of shoulder problems the last few years. Curious if you sense any of that when you're playing against her and seeing her ball. I don't know if anything in her ball would ever make that clear when you're on the opposite side of the net from her or if you feel she's playing at full strength?
DONNA VEKIC: No, she's still hitting it as hard as I can remember, yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT