US OPEN
September 4, 2019
Donna Vekic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








B. BENCIC/D. Vekic
7-6, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Talk about her as an opponent today, why you think she for the better of you.
DONNA VEKIC: I think she was just playing better tennis overall today. I felt like I couldn't get three good points together. I was, like, playing one point good, then bad. I don't know. I didn't really have a lot of rhythm out there today. I was just struggling a little bit with that.
I think she played really well the important points.
Q. Do you feel there are a lot of positives you can take away from this tournament?
DONNA VEKIC: I mean, for sure. It's my first time in Grand Slam quarterfinals. I really enjoyed my time in New York. I'm definitely disappointed right now because I really wanted to win. I thought I can.
I'm really going to discuss with my team what went wrong today and how we can prevent that from happening again.
I'm really excited for the last couple of weeks.
Q. Talk about your progression over the past year.
DONNA VEKIC: I think I've been playing good tennis since beginning of the year. I've been quite consistent. I'm really happy with that. I haven't played one week amazing and then bad the next week. I've just been consistent. I think that's really important for me because I haven't been able to do that in the previous years.
I just hopefully can keep on building my game, improving. Hopefully that will show in the rankings.
Q. How were you feeling this morning before the match? What were the nerves like out there, biggest match so far in a Grand Slam for you?
DONNA VEKIC: No, I was feeling good. For sure I was nervous. I'm nervous before every match. But it was really great playing out there. I love playing on big stages. This was definitely the biggest. I really enjoyed my time.
Q. You and Belinda know each other very well. How tough is that in a moment like that, facing someone who knows your game and...
DONNA VEKIC: I don't think that makes any difference. Everyone knows everyone's game pretty well. You can watch all the matches now. It's pretty easy to find out how someone's playing and make a good plan.
Q. The next couple weeks, how will you plan your schedule? How excited are you to go back to Asia and play some more hard court tournaments?
DONNA VEKIC: I'm just excited to go home right now. I don't really want to think about Asia yet. Good thing about Asia is I'll definitely lose some weight, so... It's diet time in Asia.
Q. The way Belinda is playing, do you think she can win the whole tournament?
DONNA VEKIC: I mean, I think at this point anyone can win the tournament.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT