JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 10, 2005
Mark Hensby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
Solid last day puts you in contention.
MARK HENSBY:  Yeah, I don't think it's going to stay in contention.  I think I needed to make    at least get to 15 to have a chance, and obviously I didn't do that, even though I had a chance to
Q.  Taking defending pretty seriously today, huh?
MARK HENSBY:  I got off to a good start, and then I didn't really putt well early on, and then all of a sudden I started to make some putts.

It's amazing, you get on a bit of a roll, 17 was kind of disappointing because I really had a chance to do something there and just got stuck in between clubs.
Q.  Overall assess your week coming back here, and 14 not too bad.
MARK HENSBY:  Yeah, overall it was a good week.

Obviously it turned out better than what I    I've been making a lot of birdies in the last few tournaments but just not staying consistent.  I had two double bogeys this week from nowhere, just off the edge of the fairways, and so overall, yeah, it was pretty good defense, I think.
Q.  How about the shirt today?  How did you come up with that?
MARK HENSBY:  Yeah, I know.  Clair Peterson tried to get me going with the pink, so I said, yeah, okay, I'll wear one, so I just kind of did it.  It was for charity obviously, and I went there over the week and it's good to wear it, so it obviously rubbed off very well.
Q.  Do you have any pink in the closet?
MARK HENSBY:  No.
Q.  Does a round like this give you some good momentum going into St. Andrews and a good state of mind, things like that?
MARK HENSBY:  Yeah, because I hit the ball well.

You know, if I just scrapped it around and got to where I was at, yeah, but I hit the ball well and really had trouble judging the greens this week, speed wise.  It seemed like there was a lot of different speeds out there.  Yeah, I feel like I'm playing well and really looking forward to next week.  That's why I came here really.
Q.  Talk about your week overall.  Was it fun defending?
MARK HENSBY:  Obviously early in the week it wasn't, with Michelle being the so called attraction of the tournament, which she was, and I understand why.  But once that was all over, I think we got back to a normal tournament.  It was obviously a lot easier to play on the weekend knowing that that's not all you were hearing about.
Q.  Did you feel under appreciated?
MARK HENSBY:  Oh, no doubt, yeah, of course I did.

You know, you can't accept it, but in a way it's kind of like you come and defend when realistically I've got a big tournament next week, and so I went out of my way to come here and obviously I've done a lot, and I feel like I really wasn't appreciated as well.
Q.  Talk about 17, you said you were between clubs.  How did your approach go and talk about the putt.
MARK HENSBY:  I absolutely yanked the putt.  The speed, as I said earlier, it was just always a struggle this week.  Yeah, I was going to hit 6 at it because I saw the guy behind me, he stopped it on that back part, so I went soft at a 5 and just tried to hold it up and just got up over the top of it.  The putt was just a terrible putt.  I gagged it really, just really hit a terrible putt.

17 you've just got to get it back in that back corner and see what happens.
Q.  What is it about you and Sundays here?
MARK HENSBY:  I don't know.  You know, I mean, I felt comfortable today, even down the stretch.  I figured if I could get to 15, I might have some chance, but 14 is definitely not going to have a chance.  I think someone will get to 16 or 17 now that I've been looking at the scores.  I don't know, this course definitely fits my eye, there's no doubt.
Q.  No scoreboard watching for you?
MARK HENSBY:  No doubt there was.  I wanted to see    towards the end there was.  I wanted to see where I stood and what I had to do.  I tried to play as aggressive as I could, but you don't want to be stupid, either, in case you do get close and miss.  Overall I looked at the boards a little bit.
Q.  Will the way things went this week maybe affect your decision to come back here next year?
MARK HENSBY:  Oh, hell no.  You never give up a course that you've played well on.  Clair Peterson and everybody has been really good to me, it's just, you know, I think    that's about all I can say really, is no, I definitely would come back no matter what.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT