HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 22, 2010
Mark Hensby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Fantastic day especially knowing that the wind is starting to pick up a little bit. Tell me what went right for you out there.   
 MARK HENSBY: I got off to a good start, birdied my first three holes, putted nicely today, but you're right the last four or five holes were pretty tough.   
 It turned around and picked up; it's just hard, it's gusty, and it's difficult.   
  
  Q. Ironically didn't need the putter on 17. Tell me about that chip and the high-five to the kid.   
 MARK HENSBY: You can't bump it into the grass because the greens are strong, and I rolled it along and it went in. The kid behind me was -- I heard him talking, so I thought I would give him a high-five. I don't think he thought it could be done.   
  
  Q. That's what you probably heard him say. He probably made a wager with the buddy next to him and you high-fived him to get him his money!  
MARK HENSBY: Exactly.  
  
  Q. What are you happiest with coming in?  
 MARK HENSBY: I haven't struck the ball well at all the last three days, but the short game has been good, and hopefully I can find some fairways and greens and get a chance.   
  
  Q. Kinda cool to see your name there? Eight birdies today?   
 MARK HENSBY: Yeah, got off to a good start. You can kind of get some momentum; I only hit two or three fairways today, but the short game was good.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 MARK HENSBY: No, I was going to play the Nationwide event but it was in Raleigh so I decided to take the week off and -- actually it would have been two weeks off.   
  
  Q. How long was it before -- when you thought you weren't going to be here to when you made plans to come?   
 MARK HENSBY: They called me around Tuesday at lunchtime, and I thought I had a good chance of getting in but I think Tuesday around lunchtime; I flew out Wednesday morning.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 MARK HENSBY: Yes, yes.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 MARK HENSBY: You know, it was breezy early but nothing like it's picking up like right now. Been breezy all day but not to this extent, and there is a lot of guesswork at hitting shots. The guy who does well today is going to be able to control his trajectory, but it's tough out there.   
  
  Q. Talk about 17.   
 MARK HENSBY: On 17 I hit it over the back of the green, tough shot, wind switched when we hit, and I hauled a shot in from the back of the green, it hit the flag and went in. Got fortunate, a bit lucky.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 MARK HENSBY: You know, I got to the 15th fairway and I was thinking I was 7-under and thinking 61, but the conditions yesterday morning were a lot different. I think if you look at the start of the draw, the course was good yesterday morning and, you know, you didn't see anyone do that in the afternoon. The conditions, if they're right, you can do that around here but right now, no way.   
  
  Q. If you had to put your crystal ball up, how far back do you think you will be at the end of the day?   
 MARK HENSBY: If this wind stays up, not far. You know, I mean, the thing about it is if you get off to a good start, and the first two holes are a bit downwind and not too bad, but then you've got 8 and 9 and it's down again until you get to 14, that's when it starts to get tough. So you can make a few birdies but the pins are tough out there.   
  
  Q. You would think a good short game might help you salvage a decent round, but how do you shoot 64 if you're not driving it well?   
 MARK HENSBY: If you want to look at the stats and see, I mean, I had some up and downs today that 5 would have been -- let alone making a par, 5 would have been a good score. As I said, it's not only am I hitting good shots, but I'm getting good breaks at the same time. As you said, you look at the stats I didn't hit many greens today or many fairways but it's not all that bad.   
  
  Q. You've always had a positive, good shot here, haven't you?   
 MARK HENSBY: Yeah. I've struggled with my putting, that's why I'm not on TOUR anymore, but I've tried a few different techniques and starting to putt good again.   
  
  Q. The California bike race going on right now, 435 mile bike race, did it give you an appreciation for what the cyclists do?   
 MARK HENSBY: I did that bike ride for the injured marines, that was raising money for the "Ride for Semper Fi," we -- when I finished the race I felt like I just won a golf tournament. Well not a race, but the ride. It was really a cool thing.   
  
  Q. What was the most difficult part of that, physically, mentally?   
 MARK HENSBY: Physically. The training for it was tough, and the third day of the ride going through the sand dunes and uphill was a lot. It was brutal, but you know what? Each day we had someone speak at night, and a couple of people who were injured and the stories they tell were heart breaking.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 MARK HENSBY: Yeah.   
  
  Q. What's been your best finish?   
 MARK HENSBY: This is my fourth one and 13th at Mayakoba, so this is my fourth, two in a row, made every cut, made four cuts but just haven't played well enough. I've been working hard so who knows.   
  
  Q. Did something turn around this week?   
 MARK HENSBY: Short game, really. I've had a little bit of success here. I finished fourth when Adam Scott won; I like the golf course, it's always nice to come back to a course you play well at and that you like.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 MARK HENSBY: I wear what I want. I don't have sponsors.   
  
  Q. Have you been wearing it all week?   
 MARK HENSBY: No, just today.   
  
  Q. What did you wear yesterday?   
 MARK HENSBY: I don't know what I wore yesterday. I just wear a different hat --  
  
  Q. Do you have a clothing sponsor?   
 MARK HENSBY: No, no.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 MARK HENSBY: I bought 'em.   
  
  Q. Seriously?   
 MARK HENSBY: Yeah, I buy all my clothes. I have a no-name bag, I've got nothing this year. I haven't had anything for two years.   
  
  Q. At least you have a club shirt.   
 MARK HENSBY: Yeah.   
  
  Q. Are you superstitious? Are you going to wear that hat tomorrow?   
 MARK HENSBY: No! The way I hit today I'm going to change for sure.   
  
  Q. Where were you doing at the age of 16, Jordan's age? What were your aspirations? Where were you?   
 MARK HENSBY: When I was 16?   
  
  Q. When you were Jordan's age.   
 MARK HENSBY: Yeah, I always wanted to be a golf pro but I never thought it would happen, because I lived in a country town in Australia and we didn't have the money to do that sort of stuff.   
 But I played a stretch when I was 15; I played in the Wales Open when I was 15, when Craig Perry won, and I had aspirations, but never thought it would happen, and then I got a break and ended up doing it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT