CIALIS WESTERN OPEN
July 4, 2004
Mark Hensby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
Talk about your round today.
MARK HENSBY:  Not real good.  You know, I struggled from the getgo.

The wind was tough, though.  The first four holes I didn't hit a bad shot and I was 2-over par.  I mean, it was tough out there.
Q.  How about the emotions of being in the last group, being in contention?  You seemed like you were pretty loose.
MARK HENSBY:  I felt all right.  As I said, I think if it was calmer out there, it might have been a little different.  As I said, the first four holes I didn't hit a bad shot, and I'm 2-over par, and I was like, what do you do?  Just judging the wind was hard.

Then I got on the back 9 and made one swing and hit it in the hazard and made double.  But I still felt if I made a few birdies coming in, I might have a chance, but he was on.
Q.  Tell us a little bit about 13.  The wind must have really made it --
MARK HENSBY:  Yeah, I drove it in the fairway perfect.  I had the ball way below my feet.  I was standing there going, 5, 6, 5, 6.  I tried to hit a little 5 and duffed it and made a double.
Q.  With the wind blowing a different direction, did you change your whole philosophy from what you did yesterday?
MARK HENSBY:  Oh, no doubt.  It was difficult.  Even 10 today, I thought I hit a great shot in there.  I had just birdied 8 and 9, and I thought I hit a great shot in 10 and it ended up being in the back bunker and buried.  I mean, I had 118 yards and I hit my 112-yard club full, and it was over the back.  It was just so hard to judge.  I think that's why 10-under won.  It was just so hard.
Q.  (Inaudible).
MARK HENSBY:  Not really.  It doesn't matter.
Q.  Is this one of the tougher days that you've played here in a tournament?
MARK HENSBY:  Oh, no doubt.  It's one of the toughest I've ever played on a golf course that demanding.  I mean, there's no room for error.  You know, my short game was so good today that I just kind of hung in there.  It's been good all week, and that's the only way I've been there is because of short game.  I didn't I really didn't have any positive decisions made out there, that's for sure.
Q.  (Inaudible).
MARK HENSBY:  It was a great experience.  I mean, having a chance to play with the winner, Stephen, you don't have to do anything special to win, you just have to be a little bit smarter and a little bit -- not guessing what you're doing out there.  You've got to be totally committed to the shot, and that's what he did and that's why he won.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT