HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 20, 2010
Mark Hensby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How is the course?   
 MARK HENSBY: The course is in great shape. The winds are tricky. I played a great back nine; the front nine was a struggle, but I hung in there and I played solid on the back.   
  
  Q. What was the 18th hole like for you?  
 MARK HENSBY: Yeah, you know, that hole is set up by the tee shot, and I hit a great tee shot, a good tee shot, and I had to sand wedge it in and made a nice putt from just off the green, so great way to finish.   
  
  Q. (Question about the leaderboard.)  
 MARK HENSBY: Yeah, I think the wind has died a little. It's not as strong as it was earlier, so I think it could be better this afternoon. They're not going to finish this afternoon, but there are some good scores out there if that wind dies down a little bit.   
  
  Q. You've been limited in starts this year, but making most of them -- you've made all three of your cuts this year. What's your thoughts about that? Do you focus more knowing that you're going to have limited starts?   
 MARK HENSBY: Yeah, it's hard to get focused on any event when you're getting called up on Tuesday or Wednesday to come out and play, but I put myself in that situation.   
 But I've been playing the Nationwide Tour, and I'm just trying to get my game back. Last year I played five tournaments, any start anywhere is good, and, you know, it's not easy, though, that's for sure.   
  
  Q. Do you feel you're back to 100%?   
 MARK HENSBY: Yeah, healthwise great; gamewise, no. I'm making strides and, you know, the best player in the world took six, seven months off and he said he has to get into a rhythm by playing, so how is a person like me going to get going? I just want to keep playing and see how it goes.   
  
  Q. What was the strongest part of your game today?   
 MARK HENSBY: Putting. I finished 4th here a couple of years ago, and the greens are comfortable for me. I don't know, I see the line better than most places I play.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT