BOB HOPE CHRYSLER CLASSIC
January 21, 2004
Mark Hensby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOAN vT ALEXANDER:   Thank you for speaking to us for a few minutes.  Great round today, nine birdies today and no bogeys. 

Why don't we begin by talking about how did you today, your play and the conditions over there at Indian Wells. 

MARK HENSBY:   At the beginning of the day it was a little rainy and cooler and then the sun came out.  The golf course and the greens are perfect.  I just got off to a really good start and made three birdies in a row to start off with. 


Q.  This is the first time you've played in this tournament, did you come in here knowing that 25- and 30-under par are the kind of numbers that you have to shoot? 

MARK HENSBY:   Yeah, I know that you've got to shoot real low, which puts more pressure on you because you know you've got to make a lot of putts and go low.  So I have noticed in the past that 34-, 35-under can win here.


Q.  What were you doing yesterday when you found out that you were going to get into the field?  What was your reaction? 

MARK HENSBY:   Well, I live in Phoenix.  I was hoping that I would get in.  I was just about to drive out here kind of hoping to get in and then the lady from the PGA TOUR called me and said I was in.  So I was pretty much on my way over here.


Q.  Given your status coming out of the Nationwide Tour, is where you're going to play and how much you're going to play this year a concern? 

MARK HENSBY:   Yeah, it is because this week I thought I was going to get in easy, and my numbers are low.  Next week, I don't even have a chance.  That's why it's kind of hard to really set your schedule.  You really don't know where you're going.  But, yeah, you can't really make a schedule, obviously, until you win or you make enough money that you're here for the next year after that.  It's tough. 


Q.  How does that affect your mindset week-to-week?  How do you get yourself mentally prepared to play not knowing whether you'll be in or out? 

MARK HENSBY:   That's the great question because I don't think you can.  I think that's why it's tough on guys coming out here to start off with, to keep their card, you don't know when you're going to play. 

For instance, after Bay Hill, we don't play for four weeks, and we know that the Masters, TPC and so on, even Bay Hill it's tough to get in. 

You know you have four weeks off.  It's tough because, you know, you'd like to prepare and now you're going to play, but then you find out you're not in.  It is difficult. 

JOAN vT ALEXANDER:   Let's go through your nine birdies. 

MARK HENSBY:   I started on the front.  1, I hit a 5-wood off the tee and I hit a sand wedge to three feet. 

2, I hit a 5-wood off the tee again and I hit a lob-wedge to about six feet.

3, I hit a 3-wood and 9-iron to about six feet.

No. 5, I hit a driver and a 5-iron.  It was just off the right, pin-high and I chipped it to about three feet and made that. 

No. 7, I hit a driver and a lob-wedge to about 15 feet. 

8, I hit driver, 3-wood just short.  Chipped it up about six feet and made that. 

12, I hit lob-wedge to about eight feet. 

15 was 7-iron to about ten feet. 

16 was 3-wood and a lob-wedge to about three feet. 

JOAN vT ALEXANDER:   Thank you, Mark, for joining us and hopefully we'll be talking to you again later in the week. 



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT