TURNING STONE RESORT CHAMPIONSHIP
October 3, 2008
Mark Hensby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. The round began under pretty decent conditions and you finished in the sunshine. A little excitement in between?
 MARK HENSBY: Yeah, a little of hail. It was interesting. Kind of a bit of everything.

 Q. Have you seen or played through anything any crazier?
 MARK HENSBY: I played in bad conditions a few times obviously, but not anything like this. 

 Q. You only missed three greens and only missed, I think, one fairway. Just really a nice solid round. 
 MARK HENSBY: Yeah, a lot of misshits that stayed in the fairway. But overall it's pretty good, you know. It's really hard to get warm and keep warm and get everything combining out there. 
 But surprised how good the scores are.

 Q. How tough is it to keep yourself focused when you're back and forth between taking layers on and off and jsut trying to hit greens and get it close?
 MARK HENSBY: Yeah, I mean, you know, as I said before, if you've done it a few times you can kind of handle it. As I said, the scores are unbelievable, so a lot guys are handling it well. 

 Q. You didn't even hit any long putts. I mean, again, it was just nice solid round where you got it on, got your putts, and got out of there and took advantage of the par-5s when you could. 
 MARK HENSBY: Yeah, exactly. I think in weather like this if you just don't make any big mistakes and just keep trying to hang in there. You know a lot of guys are going to make mistakes and make bogeys and hit wrong clubs and all that. If you can accept that, you can play well.

 Q. I got to ask you, you're 164 on the Money List. You know what's ahead of you. You did it last year without sending that application in to Q-School. They're due next week I think. Are you going wait until Monday to even think about it?
 MARK HENSBY: I already sent it in. 

 Q. You did?
 MARK HENSBY: I sent it in about two weeks ago. That was just an amazing end of the last year. I hate to book myself every year, but it's something that gives me focus. I need to get focused early on.

 Q. Here's hoping you get your money back. Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT