FRY'S ELECTRONICS OPEN
October 21, 2007
Mark Hensby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DAVE SENKO:  Mark, thanks for joining us.  Maybe before we open up to some questions, maybe just talk a little about your day and we'll get some questions from the group here. 
 MARK HENSBY:  I don't even know where to start, you know.  It was tough.  It was windy obviously.  When you're playing a golf course three days in a row that is pretty benign, and then the way it played today, it was difficult.  Even if you hit some shots that were half-decent, they were really bad and vice versa.  Just a tough day. 

 Q.  Can you tell us about that chip on 18?  You were obviously probably trying to make it.  How close did it come? 
 MARK HENSBY:  You know what, I don't even remember.  I was so focused -- it was pretty close.  I only had about a 1-foot putt I guess. 
 I thought the second shot coming in was closer than where it ended up.  It was probably four or five feet from getting real close. 

 Q.  You seemed pretty stoic about the position on the Money List a couple days ago when you were talking to us, but is it a big relief now that pretty much you're playing on the TOUR next year? 
 MARK HENSBY:  Stoic?  I have no idea what that means.  Do you have a dictionary? 

 Q.  That kind of means you're in a mellow mood and nothing bothers you. 
 MARK HENSBY:  Okay.  Well, you know, that may appear that way, but I think that, as I said, you can only do your best and see where it takes you. 
 Today was good, you know, because we had a great group and we had tough conditions.  Mike Weir played exceptional today with what he had to deal with. 
 You know, I think that playing the way I did the last 54 holes proves that I can get my game back to where it was. 
 You know, someone said to me the other day, "Oh, you know, how do you feel going into the weekend knowing that there hasn't been many guys" -- "you would be one of the guys who has won going up against guys who haven't won."  
 I'm looking at it going, Mike Weir has won the Masters, what are people talking about?  And it's a pity that the events are -- the players are as good out here -- you know, just because Tiger is not in the field, and obviously Phil played this week, but you don't need the top five players in the world for it to be a great field. 
 You know, it's just a pity that the media has got such a kick on, we need the Top-10 in the world in the field for it to be a top-class event.  And I think every week that you see someone come out of somewhere and you go, where did he come from, you look and go, wow, he's done a lot.  So I think that in general, there's so many good players out here.  You know, I'm just trying to do the best I can do, and see where it takes you. 
 So that word that you used, I think that's just -- a lot of guys to beat around here and we're all trying to do the same thing. 

 Q.  So how do you feel about getting your card? 
 MARK HENSBY:  Happy, obviously.  I mean, this was probably going to be my last event, so it happened for a reason I guess. 
 So obviously, you know, I'm going to be back on the PGA TOUR next year.  And every year is a stepping stone, and there are so many doubts in this game; I'm looking forward to next year now. 
 And even if I had not kept my card, I would still be looking forward to next year because I still felt with my past champion's category status; that even if I got into events, I would be able to compete.  But now that I have my card back, I don't have to worry about it. 
 DAVE SENKO:  Mark, could we get your birdies, bogeys real quick. 
 MARK HENSBY:  Yeah, I bogeyed the first.  I think I bogeyed that three days this week.  Just hit a driver down the middle over the back and didn't judge the wind and chipped it up and missed it. 
 Then 6 was downwind today.  Hit 3-wood just short.  Hit a good chip and made the putt. 
 I hit not a good tee shot and had 3-iron into 9 and hit it in the bunker and chipped it out and missed about a 5-foot putt. 
 Birdie at 11, missed the green just right and chipped it up about four feet and made it. 
 Hit a terrible shot on 13 and didn't get that up-and-down. 
 Then I birdied 14. 
 I think the turning point probably in the tournament was 15.  Mike made birdie there and I actually thought that I hit the better shot out of the group and I was on the downslope of the bunker and hit a pretty good shot out, but I had like a 10-footer and I think that was probably the turning point. 

 Q.  How much did you have left on your approach on 18? 
 MARK HENSBY:  I think 154 to the front, so 170-something.  I hit 9-iron and it was downwind.  That's it?  That was exciting.  (Laughing) Thanks. 
 DAVE SENKO:  Thanks, Mark. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT