FRY'S ELECTRONICS OPEN
October 19, 2007
Mark Hensby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DOUG MILNE:  Thank you for joining us today.  Not a bad round, 5-over after ten yesterday, and here you are 7-under for the tournament, 61 today.  Just a few general opening comments. 
 MARK HENSBY:  That's just typical of my game this year.  It's been good and bad. 
 But played exceptionally well today.  A couple of good breaks, and that's what you need to shoot a good score.  But overall, I hit it close, and obviously putted well. 

 Q.  How's your foot these days? 
 MARK HENSBY:  Good.  Everything's good.  A couple of little nagging injuries, but nothing that's been holding me back, that's for sure. 

 Q.  You were able to resolve that before this season? 
 MARK HENSBY:  Not really.  (Laughter). 
 But the trouble is, I think if you sit back and keep blaming stuff, then it's in your head that it's bad. 
 So I've just tried to say it's been great and let it go from there.  You know, towards the end of the year now, it's starting to take its toll, that's for sure. 

 Q.  You started 5-over after your first ten holes, and now you're 14-under after the last 26; what was the difference?  What was the turnaround there? 
 MARK HENSBY:  I was working on something, and it wasn't working.  (Laughter) And then I got a feel out there that something -- it was just out of the blue.  I tried it, and tried it on the next hole, hit it down the middle and made the putt.  So did that for the rest of the round yesterday and today I just felt good. 

 Q.  What was that thing that you changed? 
 MARK HENSBY:  That's a secret. 

 Q.  Did you change your grip? 
 MARK HENSBY:  No, it's just a bit of face angle somewhere.  It's too complicated for anybody to understand.  I don't even understand it. 

 Q.  What's it feel like when you're on a roll like you are today?  Did you feel like everything you hit is going to be a good shot at some point? 
 MARK HENSBY:  Well, you expect good things to happen when you're on a roll, and the only bad thing about it is we have to stop.  I would like to keep playing. 
 It's a good feeling.  I think if you know you're putting well, you hit your irons a little closer and it makes it a little easier.  It's definitely fun when you're on a roll.  I haven't had too many of them lately. 

 Q.  Is 61 a career best? 
 MARK HENSBY:  Yeah, I think so.  In competition, anyway. 

 Q.  What was the previous? 
 MARK HENSBY:  62. 

 Q.  Are you still in Mesa? 
 MARK HENSBY:  Yes.  

 Q.  Do you ever play out here? 
 MARK HENSBY:  Never played here before.  I went to Geoff Ogilvy's wedding here.  That's the only time I've been here.  (Laughter) He had his wedding outside here.  So that's the only time I've been here. 
 DOUG MILNE:  Yesterday you hit ten of 18 greens in regulation, and today was 16 of 18.  So obviously something clicked. 
 MARK HENSBY:  Yeah, and it also helps when you drive it on the fairway.  If you ever look at my stats on the first ten holes, you'll see I hit no fairways. 

 Q.  Is that true, you hit no fairways? 
 MARK HENSBY:  None.  Actually I might have hit one on that short par 4, but that's kind of a par 3 anyway. 
 DOUG MILNE:  Well, you improved greatly on that, as well.  Yesterday was 8 for 14 and today was 12 for 14 fairways.  If you don't mind, can we just run through your birdies and give us a little visual description, maybe some clubs. 
 MARK HENSBY:  Which hole did I start on? 
 DOUG MILNE:  You started on 1.  You birdied 1 and 2. 
 MARK HENSBY:  I hit driver and a pitching wedge into 1 to, I don't know, I think it was about four feet and made that putt. 
 3-wood, pitching wedge into the second hole about four or five feet and made that. 
 No. 6, I drove it short of the green and chipped it to two feet and made that. 
 8, I had a 4- or 5-foot putt there. 
 No. 10, I had a 6-foot putt. 
 No. 12, an inch.  Almost holed it there.  It was leaning in the hole. 
 15, chipped it to a foot. 
 1, about a 12-foot putt. 
 18, probably eight feet. 
 So I didn't hole any bombs today.  I hit it close all day. 

 Q.  According to ShotLink, your longest putt was nine feet. 
 MARK HENSBY:  Yeah, that must have been on 17. 
 DOUG MILNE:  Out there a few minutes ago, you made the comment -- he asked you about Money List and you had a great answer.  If you could just share your philosophy on that with us. 
 MARK HENSBY:  Well, the Money List is -- it's like, if it's come down to what we are at now, I'm at 151, and obviously I haven't played very well.  It's like you have all year to, you know, prove yourself out here.  You know, I feel the same tension at the end of the year as I do at the beginning of the year.  So the Money List to me is like if I play well, I don't have to worry about it. 
 Obviously 2004 I made $2.7 million and 2005 I made a lot of money, too.  But it just shows you how fickle this game is.  I was 27th in the world a year and a half ago, and now I'm 400. 
 So it's amazing how, you know, just when you think -- it's such a hard game.  You know, everybody keeps bringing up, "Well, you're 151 on the Money List."  To me it doesn't matter.  If I play well, I don't have to worry about it and if I don't, I'll go to Q-School but I'm not going to go to Q-School, so I don't have to worry about that.  If I don't make it, I'll have to work on past champions and sponsor's exemption invites next year, otherwise I'll be playing on the Nationwide Tour. 

 Q.  Are you in the next two events? 
 MARK HENSBY:  I'm not playing next week.  If I get close and play well this week and I'm pretty close, I'll go to Disney.  But right now, no, I'm done. 
 You see guys playing like seven or eight events in a row to try to keep their card.  That's the dumbest thing ever.  If you're tired, how are you going to perform to your best?  The best player in the world plays 16 events; what are we thinking?  So, you know, obviously it's important.  At the end of the day it should have been taken care of already, and if you're worrying about it now -- 

 Q.  So you were not planning on playing the other two tournaments? 
 MARK HENSBY:  No, not right now. 

 Q.  Well, you've got the tournament record here.  (Laughter) 
 MARK HENSBY:  Well, if I win this week, then that takes care of -- but that's the thing about this whole tour, especially these last few events, I think that's why it's exciting is because a guy can be having the worst year of his life and win, and all of a sudden he's having a great year. 
 And that's kind of how these events -- I think that's what they are designed for.  You know, it doesn't get you in the Masters and stuff like that, but you know, it gives you a job for you a year. 

 Q.  There's already been a couple huge moves, George McNeill last week and Michael Allen; Kent Jones. 
 MARK HENSBY:  You know, so I mean, these events, it's just a pity the crowds are not as big as they could be, like last week.  But it's only going to improve I think over the next few years.  We'll see what happens with all of this FedExCup stuff. 

 Q.  What was that club you used to hit two inches on 12? 
 MARK HENSBY:  Pitching wedge. 
 DOUG MILNE:  Thanks for joining us.  Best of luck on the weekend. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT