THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2006
Mark Hensby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BERNIE McGUIRE:  Thanks for coming, firstly.  Today's round, 68, good return to form.  Give us quickly your thoughts about the round and then we'll take some questions.
MARK HENSBY:  I got off to what I thought was a good start, and then I made a triple bogey on No. 3, and then came back and played decent.  That's about it.
BERNIE McGUIRE:  Very adventurous round out there.
MARK HENSBY:  Made nine birdies and shot 4 under, but when you have a triple somewhere, it obviously takes up a few of the birdies that you have out there.
Q.  Did you find the conditions were easier after that rain overnight?
MARK HENSBY:  Yeah, no doubt.  The greens were softer, so you could fly the ball on the green.  The pins were tricky, too, especially the first few pins were like tucked on the front.  So it was definitely easier to chip around the greens when the greens are that soft.
Q.  How did you make the triple, and what was going through your mind at that stage?
MARK HENSBY:  I hit 2 iron just short of that little island that's over the thick rough, and I tried to hit too much club over and caught the top and it went out of bounds.
Q.  Mark, coming into the tournament you weren't entirely happy with your form.  After that triple, you'd have to be pretty satisfied with the form after that?
MARK HENSBY:  Yeah, after the triple I thought, "Here we go again."  But, you know, I made a good birdie at the next and then I birdied the par 5 and I got back on track.  So I was really pretty much trying to get back to even par or 1 under and see where it went.
Q.  You started this tournament well last year, as well.  Was that part of a factor in the confidence growing today?
MARK HENSBY:  No, I think I like this sort of style of golf.  It's fun.  It's a little different.  I'm not sure if it suits my game, but it's definitely a lot of fun to play.
Q.  What's greater, the satisfaction of hitting 9 birdies or the frustration of the triple bogey that slightly ruined the round?
MARK HENSBY:  Well, it depends on when you ask me that.  After having a triple    I guess to come back the way I did, I was kind of happy.  To shoot 4 under after being 3 over like that, it was    you know, I was    it was good considering the way I've been playing.  I don't think there's any way of really answering that.
Q.  Do you have any sort of peculiar or particular way that you deal with a situation like that triple bogey that brings you back on course?
MARK HENSBY:  Yeah, I got pissed off.  That definitely got me    I was really angry, actually, I must admit.  I played the first two holes really well and then I made that and I was definitely not happy.  So I guess that kind of    I just free wheeled it a little bit from there, and that definitely got me back on track.
BERNIE McGUIRE:  Thank you.  Great start.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT