MLB WORLD SERIES: CARDINALS v RED SOX
October 22, 2004
Keith Foulke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Talk about, I mean, you threw over 100 pitches in less than 48 hours against the Yankees.  No. 1, how did you feel after that, and I know you like to pitch two innings at a time, but had you ever done anything like that before? 

KEITH FOULKE:   No, I had not thrown that many pitches in that short of a time.  During the regular season, you know, the staff really tries to try and prevents you from pitching that much.  But during the playoffs when you're down to your last lifer, you've got to do whatever is necessary.  But I feel great.  I felt better in Game 6 than I did in the first game. 

Q.  I just wonder, Keith, you had two teams, talk about St. Louis, looked like they were going to breeze through and then they had to battle back and obviously everybody knows how you battled back, what are your expectations for this series between two great teams? 

KEITH FOULKE:   You know what, I really don't have any expectations.  Obviously this is the two best teams in baseball going head-to-head.  There's nothing going to be easy about this.  And you wouldn't want it to be easy.  But these ballclubs, two great offenses, a bunch of guys who can pitch on both sides, and it's going to be a dogfight.  We're going to have to go out there and play good ball. 

Q.  You talk about --

KEITH FOULKE:   Kenny Williams? (Laughter.) 

Q.  Okay.  Can you talk about how unhittable you were in and why all of your pitches were just so incredible during this past series here? 

KEITH FOULKE:   I mean, I don't know about unhittable, but, you know it really, I guess effective wildness.  It's one of those things where I think I had seven walks during that series, and I mean usually I don't walk seven people in two or three months.  But you know, the thing; as a pitcher or as a player, you have to be able to lock in, concentrate and go out and do your job.  I think failing a lot in the playoffs in the past couple of years has helped me to be a lot mentally stronger and go out there, and it's one of those things, I would rather pitch on the black than let you hit it out of the ballpark.

Q.  I asked Tim Wakefield about the green monster.  I'm assuming that batters love it and pitchers don't, but what do you think about it, and is it sort of a piece of history in this ballpark and in regards to baseball in general with the green monster? 

KEITH FOULKE:   You know, it's one of those things that kind of goes both ways.  There's been a couple of instances where it's kind of come out to bite me a little bit where a lot of fly balls are outs in other ballparks.  But then there's also those rockets that would be possible home runs in other parks that has kept a guy to a single.  So it's really one of those things I really try to pitch away from.  I like to use the centerfield, right field area here since it's so big.  But that wall, it's one of those things that helps you at times and other times it hurts you.  It just depends on the hitter.  You just don't want to be banging off the wall all day.

Q.  I know you've been here a full season, but does anything stand out that surprises but the Boston experience, the Fenway experience, fans, whatever, whether they are harsher or more passionate, making their way down to New York? 

KEITH FOULKE:   You know, I guess one of the things that surprised me is, A, the number of them that they are everywhere.  You don't go down the street a city block without seeing someone in some type of Red Sox attire.  They are in every road city.  They show out in numbers.  They are vocal.  You know, the thing is, it's just a passion that they have for this team and this organization that is unrivalled by nobody. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT