ALLSTATE BCS NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP GAME: LSU v ALABAMA
January 6, 2012
Josh Chapman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What's your thoughts on the rematch?   Does either team have an advantage when you've already played somebody?   And I guess most people seem to think that the team that lost the first one has a bit of an advantage, maybe they're a little more motivated or whatever.   What do you think?
JOSH CHAPMAN:   I wouldn't use the word "rematch" as a term of describing the game, it's just a battle between the two best teams in the country and seeing if we can come out with the goals they set for in the beginning of the year.   So, I mean, our goal was to be the best team in the country.
By doing that, we got to where we want to be.   And those guys, LSU, they're a great team, but it's time for us to show what we've been working for.

Q.   How much do you look back, though, on that game?   Certainly you've obviously studied it for game planning and stuff like that.   How much impact does that game have?
JOSH CHAPMAN:   It has a lot.   We've learned a lot from that game.   The game kind of made our season what it is now.   It's about finishing.   We didn't finish that game and didn't capitalize.   Those guys capitalized on our mistakes, and they finished stronger than we did. 
We learned a lot from it.   We go out and finish.   Coaches showed us when we do things right, it's hard to beat us.

Q.   Not giving anything away, but do you all look at‑‑ how much can you learn, like little tendencies or things from the game, just looking at film?   How much does that help you that you've got film on them actually playing them?
JOSH CHAPMAN:   I mean, every team has tendencies.   We've got tendencies on our team.   Certain teams do certain stuff.   You have to learn and study film.   Once you study film a lot, you get to learn the system of where the ball's going or stuff like that from a defensive player's standpoint.
So a lot of teams have certain tendencies, and people learn how to study those.

Q.   Do you use any of the social media:   Facebook or Twitter?
JOSH CHAPMAN:   I got Facebook, all that stuff.   I'm not really into it all.   I just have it just to have it, really.

Q.   Gotta have it nowadays.   But does Coach Saban have any rules on that? 
JOSH CHAPMAN:   I mean, he has rules about it.   But at the same time he allows you to have it.   But he don't want you putting anything out there to embarrass yourself or the team.   You embarrass the team if you put something crazy out there, but also yourself.

Q.   Does he have somebody watching to keep up‑‑
JOSH CHAPMAN:   That's one thing we really don't pay no attention to.   That's something that's outside of it.

Q.   You do it during the season at all or‑‑
JOSH CHAPMAN:   I really am not into it like this, so I can't even speak on it.

Q.   Can you talk about LSU's running backs?   They've got a stable where ‑‑ four running backs, guys that can interchange with (indiscernible), all those guys, to where they have fresh legs.   How important is it for you guys to shore up the defensive line, not have holes, keeping them running east to west?
JOSH CHAPMAN:   They have great running backs.   They run the ball hard, fast.   They have a great offensive line that blocks for them.   Those guys find the hole and run through it, run downhill. 
That's going to be a game that's going to be won at the line of scrimmage.   We're going to go out and dominate those guys.

Q.   This time with Jordan Jefferson being the starting quarterback, very mobile, very able to get away from guys and make things happen with his feet.   Do you like playing guys like that?   Is it difficult playing guys like that?   What's your mindset?
JOSH CHAPMAN:   My mindset is going out and doing our job.   He's a great running quarterback.   He can run and throw the ball, so we've got to contain the guy. 
The thing is, we've got to affect the guy.   That's what we've been practicing on is affecting the quarterback.

Q.   With media day, do you get tired of answering the same questions over and over again?
JOSH CHAPMAN:   I mean, it's questions they're going to be asked, so I don't mind.

Q.   This game, if it plays out like the first one, it's going to come down to the trenches.   And what is it that you guys have been preparing for, obviously, now that you've seen them once?   How do you approach this differently than the first game?
JOSH CHAPMAN:   One thing we learned from the first game is finishing.   That's one thing.   Those guys capitalize on our mistakes.   And the game is always won out in the trenches, who can dominate the line of scrimmage. 
That's one thing we harp ourselves on here.   Dominate, creating a new line of scrimmage on the defense.   And our offensive line does a great job of knocking guys back, and we improved on that.

Q.   What would you rather do?   Would you rather take up two, three blockers and let somebody else make a play, or would you rather get through there and make a play?
JOSH CHAPMAN:   I like being down in the trenches.   I like two people on me, because my thing is like it's like a fight in the backyard.   You got two trying to fight you, somebody better come free from my own team. 
It's fun down there fighting in the trenches.   I know I got great linebackers, great secondary behind me making plays.   It's fun when you're down, they got three guys on you, and you hear tackle, Hightower, Mosley, somebody out there coming for you. 
That's one thing about our defense and running this 3‑4, somebody is always going to be free when you got there. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT