STANFORD UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 23, 2019
Curtis Robinson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Cal - 24, Stanford - 20
Q. Obviously not the outcome you wanted. Overall your thoughts and just how things unfolded and how Cal was able to get it done at the end?
CURTIS ROBINSON: Yeah, we just didn't finish. Didn't do enough in the end of the game to get it done. I felt like we were in a good spot both on offense and defense. And I feel like we just didn't finish. We had them where we wanted; we just didn't finish.
Q. How much of that was on you guys, and how much was because of Chase Garbers?
CURTIS ROBINSON: I'm just going to go ahead and say that it's because of our lack of execution. Obviously I'm going to have to go watch the film, like everybody else. Chase Garbers was making a lot of really good plays, important plays for that team. So, hats off to him. But I think it comes down to our lack of execution.
Q. Two missed sacks for the team. When you had your shot you took it. What did you see on that play?
CURTIS ROBINSON: Yeah, I mean, just what I was saying there. You've got to execute and take advantage of the opportunities when you get them. They're usually slim. So in a game like that, I was just thinking take advantage of the opportunity when I had it.
Q. Andrew Pryts with 10 tackles, was pretty active today. How do you sum up the day for him?
CURTIS ROBINSON: It was a great day for him. It's nothing less than what I expect from him you know? He's a great player and I've loved playing next to him all season. And it just shows that his preparation, or that is a result of his preparation and his execution.
Q. (Indiscernible)?
CURTIS ROBINSON: It's not good. We let down nine senior classes that have won this before and 10 including this one. So it's definitely not a good feeling. Feel pretty bad about it, to be honest.
But I spoke to the team and told them we have one week left. We have a big game. This should be our biggest game because it's the game that's next.
And to me it's a rivalry game, too. It's a game with a trophy on the line, a way to end the season strong going into the offseason. I told the team, we need to approach this game like we would approach any game.
Q. Colby mentioned that. He said that this week, Coach Shaw mentioned it too, this week will show the character of the team because on one level you don't have much for which to play, but Colby said, you know what, you guys will play as hard this week as you would any other week. Fair?
CURTIS ROBINSON: Yeah, it's going to be a test of our character. It will be real easy for anyone off the street to just quit because we don't have a bowl game or, you know what I'm saying, we're not having a great season. Anybody can do that.
So I think that it's going to be a test of our character. If we come out and we show that we prepared like we would any other game, with the motivations of any other game, I think that will be a good sign for the program. And I don't expect anything less from our team.
Q. (Indiscernible)?
CURTIS ROBINSON: I don't want to blame the injuries. You've got to -- football happens. You hope that it doesn't happen in the massive amount that we've had and it's very fortunate. I don't want to take away from any of that. Because I wish that all the guys in my class and anyone on the team that was injured, I know how bad they wanted to be out there today. So I don't wish to undermine that at all.
But as the people who are healthy and able to play, you have to not make that excuse. You have to go into every game with the next-man-up mentality. You have to treat it like you were supposed to be the guy.
And, so, yes, I don't wish to undermine the injuries you mentioned. But we have never at any point in the season made an excuse and we won't for the rest of the season.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT