AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: YANKEES VS ASTROS
October 17, 2019
James Paxton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What was your takeaway on the hard contact that the Astros made against you the first time? And were you at all concerned about tipping, because it had been a problem for you earlier in the season?
JAMES PAXTON: Not concerned about tipping. I made some mistakes and also they hit some good pitches.
So I'm going to go out there and attack and try to make the best pitches I can.
Q. I know you've been asked about it quite a bit and there's reports about issues with them stealing signs or reading tips on pitchers, how much do you think about that actually going into the game or even when you are in the game?
JAMES PAXTON: In the game I need to focus on pitching. We try to mitigate that and look at it between starts and we didn't think they had anything, and still don't. So I'm going to go out there and compete. If there's anything we think they've got in the game, we'll address that, but as of right now I don't think they have anything.
Q. Aaron's been very aggressive with his bullpen and told the starting pitchers that he would be aggressive. Is it difficult going out there knowing that one or two bad at-bats in a row might be the end?
JAMES PAXTON: I can't worry about that. That's his job. I leave that to him. When I have the ball in my hand, I'm going to do everything I can to help the team. I'll go out there and compete and that's what I plan on doing.
Q. Did you actually look to see if you were tipping your pitches after the last start?
JAMES PAXTON: We took a look at it and I don't think I was giving anything away.
Q. What do you look at it when you try to figure that kind of thing out?
JAMES PAXTON: We look to see if I'm doing anything out of the full windup from one pitch to another, whether I'm throwing my fastball or my curveball, if I'm doing anything different. Same thing out of the stretch. I know they're trying to pick it up out of the glove at second base, and I'm doing what I can to make sure they can't do that.
Q. With now the prospect of four days in a row, is there anything on the starting pitchers to come through with longer outings, especially with the prospect of an all-bullpen game in Game 6?
JAMES PAXTON: Yeah, I think that we want to go out there and go as deep as we can, that's always the goal. We've had plenty of times this year where we've played four games in a row. And it's the same as always: We're going to go out there and do our jobs.
Q. This is your first playoff experience this fall. What have you taken from that? What is different from pitching in the regular season for you and what can you use tomorrow night from that?
JAMES PAXTON: There's a higher intensity. But overall it's the same game. You have to treat it the same way. It's just being able to mentally treat it the same way even though there is that extra intensity and what we're playing for.
But ultimately if you can play the game the same way you did in the regular season, you're going to have the most success.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT