WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2016
Brydan Klein
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. MAHUT/B. Klein
  7‑6, 6‑4, 6‑4 
   
 Q. So how did you see that one? It was close through the first set and then it got away from you a little bit.   
BRYDAN KLEIN: Yeah, it was a tough first set. So it was a close one. We were both holding our serve quite comfortably. Obviously he's used to going to tiebreaks, got extremely good serve.   
I was finding it tough to get into his service games. So I need to just keep holding mine, get to the tiebreak. Unfortunately he played a great tiebreaker, so I couldn't get that upper edge in the first set.  
I think it was a matter of time before, well, my level was going to drop on my serve and his experience got the better of me.  
   
 Q. Because he's obviously like an exceptional grass court player.   
BRYDAN KLEIN: Yeah, he's extremely good on grass. I think he's won an ATP title on s‑Hertogenbosch in the past and done well at Queen's in the past. He's very tough. Very tough draw.   
But it was a good challenge, test my returns. Yeah, I did the best I could and I'm happy with the way I played. Obviously would have liked to have win and I would have liked to have played a little bit better and maintain that first step. It wasn't to be.  
   
 Q. The draw wasn't particularly kind to the Brits, was it, to say the least?  
BRYDAN KLEIN: No, I couldn't believe it. It was extremely tough. I think most of us weren't too happy with our draws. Looking at some of the other people I could have got, mine was quite fortunate, actually, considering James got Djokovic and Liam got Andy.   
So, you know, you have to play who you're drawn against. Unfortunately it hasn't been a great year for the wildcards.  
   
 Q. But you are at your second Wimbledon?  
BRYDAN KLEIN: Yeah, it's my second one.  
   
 Q. Enjoying the experience, anyway?  
BRYDAN KLEIN: Of course. I think it's the best tournament in the world. It's a privilege to be able to play the tournament. Last year was my debut and I was extremely nervous. This year I was a bit more relaxed and played better than I did last year. I really used the experience from last year to keep on having a good US season after the tournament. I'm hoping I can better myself and do well leading into the U.S. season now.  
   
 Q. What's next for you?  
BRYDAN KLEIN: I'm going to go to Newport, Rhode Island. One more grass court tournament, try and stay on the grass as long as possible. It suits me. Hopefully get a good result there, and on to the hard courts in the States.  
   
 Q. How are you feeling about your season as a whole?  
BRYDAN KLEIN: I'm excited. I have been injured for the whole first half of this year. I only returned to play four weeks ago. The first few tournaments back were extremely tough. I couldn't find my level right away. I think I have done well to regain my form quickly.   
I worked extremely hard during the past four, five months doing rehab and trying to strengthen up and get fit for my return.  
I think, well, I hope that the hard work is going to pay off.  
   
 Q. That must have been frustrating because you had a good season last season.   
BRYDAN KLEIN: I had a good back half of the year, and I wanted to build on that and push towards top 100, which I felt I could have, finishing 170ish in the world and having not much to defend first half of the year.  
And then I got injured, and suddenly I was out for the whole first half. It's tough returning when you're suddenly defending points.   
But I just take one week at a time and one match at a time and play as well as I could.  
   
 Q. What were your injuries?  
BRYDAN KLEIN: Lower back. Disk injury.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT