WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2015
Brydan Klein
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. SEPPI/B. Klein
  6‑3, 6‑2, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   That didn't quite go as you had hoped?  
BRYDAN KLEIN:   No, definitely not.   You know, I didn't really feel comfortable on court today.   I think he played exceptionally well.   Was solid.   
You know, he was keeping the ball deep and I didn't really get steady on my feet and my shots weren't flying how I wanted them to.  
He's a top‑30 player and I think he played a high level.   I'm mostly inexperienced at Grand Slam level, and he is more higher ranked than me.   It was tough on the day.   
I would have liked to start better, but I'm not completely disappointed because I have been playing well over the summer.  
   
 Q.   You seemed to show your exasperation at the end of the second set with the overrule of the umpire.   That seemed to get at you and hurt you.   
BRYDAN KLEIN:   I wouldn't say it hurt me.   I was trying to just stay relaxed, stay focused.  
You know, I just wanted just to let something out.   I do think it wasn't a great call by him, because usually you replay the point, I think, if there is an out call and I had a play on ball, obvious play on the ball.   I pulled off the shot.   
So I thought it was a strange decision.   It was basically end of that set, and I just wanted to let something out and try and focus and let something out without being derogatory.   
I was trying to fire it up just to get a bit of adrenaline going, trying to fire myself up.   I don't think I was rude in any way.   I wanted to argue a bit and let some tension out.   Hopefully loose my arms up and free up for the third set, but it was too good by him.  
   
 Q.   Did you feel any home support out there, or you felt like you never got anything going to get the crowd behind you?  
BRYDAN KLEIN:   I did.   I felt the crowd wanting to get going.   I was a break down in the second, and, you know, I played a good point to save break point, and the crowd was starting, going.   If I held that game, I feel they were really going to try and lift me the next game to break back.   
But I didn't really give them a chance to get going, and usually I like to get the pump going, and usually when I play I get very pumped up.   He sort of suppressed me and the crowd, I think.  
I didn't really get any chances to really, like, get into the match and get a chance to have a good sniff or good look to really get pumped and get some adrenaline going and get the crowd going and everything.   
If I did get a chance and I was 3‑All, got him Love‑30, I would have done so and I would have tried to lift and get the crowd going and use that to my advantage.  
I think he did very well just to go about his business, stay cool, be clinical in his service games and suppress the crowd and me.  
   
 Q.   Was the heat an issue for you?  
BRYDAN KLEIN:   No.   No, it's quite humid today.   I was sweating a lot.   I didn't really feel that tired.   
I may have looked sluggish just because I felt a bit uncomfortable and he was working me side to side.   You know, I have been moving really well this summer, playing quite well, but obviously everything didn't go to plan today.  
   
 Q.   There is another round to go, and he could be meeting Murray in the third round.   Do you think he could trouble him with that solid game?  
BRYDAN KLEIN:   He's very solid, but also Andy is very solid as well.   Andy is playing very well, I think.   He's a very similar player to Seppi, I think, with a bigger first serve and more variety.  
I think it would be a tough matchup for Seppi.   I think Andy is a similar version to him but with more weapons.   
I think obviously he's beaten top players.   He's troubled Djokovic before, and I'm not sure if he's beaten Djokovic, but I have seen him trouble him and he's beaten Federer.   He can play a really high level, but I would back Andy to get through him if it came to it.  
   
 Q.   How long did it take for the fans, British fans, to see you as British?   It's only been a couple of years since the nationality changed.   Do you think it will take a while for them to recognize you as...   
BRYDAN KLEIN:   I'm starting to feel the support.   Over the summer I had a lot of people supporting me at the challenger before this event in Manchester.   Queen's quallies I got big support.   I showed some fighting spirit, and I think they thrived off it.  
You know, I had some good wins.   Well, I put it down to getting good support.   You know, I played some really tough matches.   I played Baghdatis in the challenger in Manchester and I won 6 in the third.   
I still think I might not have got through that match if the crowd weren't getting behind me and amping me up and pushing me to keep going.   And the same at Queen's.   The crowd got behind me, and I was 4‑1 down in the final set against Darcis and I came back and won 6 in the third, as well.   
I put that down to the crowd, you know, really lifting me.   I do thrive off the crowd.   Unfortunately today I just couldn't get into the match.  
   
 Q.   Do you think it might have been better if you played a bit later, before when they had taken their seats?   First up, people come in later?   
BRYDAN KLEIN:   Well, the match before me was 0‑0.   It was so quick.   I think the fans weren't even ready to get on the court and get seated for my match if they were wanting to come and watch my match.  
So I only just went downstairs to start warming up.   I checked the score, and suddenly I'm like, Oh, I'm really on.   So I'm not sure what happened in the match before, but I'm glad that it didn't happen to me and I got on the board.  
   
 Q.   Did it have an effect on your preparation?  
BRYDAN KLEIN:   Oh, it happens all the time.   I didn't expect the match to be that quick.   I guess that affects you a little bit, but you should have your feet solid usually by second game or so once you're warmed up and sewn in.   
I looked at the stats after the match.   Seppi only made 10 unforced errors in a three‑set match, so I didn't get any gifts to sort of help me relax and loosen up.   It was tough.  
   
 Q.   You have been based over here a couple years now.   You were close to breaking the top 100 in 2013 or so.   How would you assess how you've done the last couple of years and going forward now what you can do the rest of this year?  
BRYDAN KLEIN:   Well, this time last year I was ranked 450, and I played a wildcard playoff just to get a wildcard to qualifying, so to play a main draw here is a dream come true.   It's a big step.  
The federation have been supporting me, really backing me with my tennis.   And for the latter half of this year, my ranking's gone up to 170ish now from 450 in a year's time.   It takes a while to get used to playing the top players on the bigger stage.   
I think I have the ability to get up into the top 100 if I keep going the same way.   I have improved my attitude a lot.   I'm a lot calmer and relaxed on court.   
The results have been coming.   Also a lot of hard work.   I'm going to play the U.S. schedule up until the US Open after this, and hopefully, if I have a good back half of the year, I can be sitting close to 120, 130 by year end and have a look to push in the top 100 by early next year.   That's my plans.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT