AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 21, 2009
Brydan Klein
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. WAWRINKA/B. Klein
  6-3, 6-4, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. What's the experience been like? 
 BRYDAN KLEIN: It was a great experience. Came through my first match and I've never won a match at a Grand Slam. It was very good to get out there and play someone who's been top 10 in the world. It was definitely a good thing. I only got broken once per set. Yeah, I thought it was all right.

 Q. What have you taken out of this? To look to the future, what do you think have to do?
 BRYDAN KLEIN: I just need to keep progressing my game and keep improving. Everything he did was just slightly better. I was having trouble returning his serve. 
 Other than that, I held my serve every time except once a set. I need to concentrate harder and just improve everything. Yeah. 

 Q. What does to take for your motivation to continue in your career? I guess having won the first round match and having the crowd support today and everything. 
 BRYDAN KLEIN: Yeah, it is definitely a boost during any first match. If I go into another Grand Slam, I believe I can win a match now. You see some players that play five, six first rounds before they win a match. I didn't want that to happen. It's good to get a win under my belt. I'll be looking forward to trying to do better next year.

 Q. What extent did inexperience play a part today in that match?
 BRYDAN KLEIN: He just played a bit tighter. I made a few unforced errors and he served very well in his service games. Once a set I played some sloppy points. I went down on serve and he took advantage of that and generally broke me when I put myself in a bad position on serve.

 Q. Do you come away encouraged thinking you can be that sort of player in a few years yourself?
 BRYDAN KLEIN: They're definitely very good players, so we just need to keep improving. If I can just step up that little bit more, maybe next time play him and take a set and next time after that take two sets. Who knows? 
 Things just keep moving forward.

 Q. Does what happened here this week altered your schedule?
 BRYDAN KLEIN: From here there's a few challenges in Australia. I'm going to go play them and then I might fly it Asia and play some challengers over there. But my schedule hasn't change. I planned it before the tournament so it's going to stay the same. 

 Q. Have you got any goals, I guess for the year ahead? 
 BRYDAN KLEIN: Um, mainly to improve my game, but also by the end of the year try and half my ranking like I did the year before and try to push getting into the main draw in a Grand Slam on my own ranking. Hopefully this time next year I can be getting in, not from a wildcard, but from my own ranking.

 Q. If you were telling somebody how it went today, somebody that didn't watch the match, you were there. You said the unforced errors, what causes those unforced errors? 
 BRYDAN KLEIN: I would tell them I was making a few unforced errors because I'm a bit inexperienced. Otherwise I was in a lot of points and I played a lot of good points. I was in every game, so I could have easily held the games I lost and gone to a tiebreak and maybe played a good tiebreak and pulled off a set. 
 But when I gave him a chance in my service games, he generally took it. It's tough when you're going and you're 30-All and serving against a player that's been top 10 and you feel a bit of pressure, so that's where the errors come from. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT