AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 19, 2009
Brydan Klein
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 B. KLEIN/B. Phau
  6-4, 6-3, 4-6, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Brydan, were you happy with the way you played today?  
 BRYDAN KLEIN: Yeah, I was pretty happy. I don't think I served that great in the first set, but I was keeping the ball in court a lot. I picked it up. I served good at the right time.   
 But, yeah, I was happy with the match.  
  
  Q. Happier than this time last year?  
 BRYDAN KLEIN: Yeah, definitely. It was my first time playing, and I played on a bigger court last year. I was a bit nor nervous last year. I'm really happy that I played a bit better this year and got through, yeah.   
  
  Q. Can you give us a sense of what it is like to be a young Australian playing in his home championships?  
 BRYDAN KLEIN: Well, we play all year in different countries. This is the best time of year, in January, playing the Australian Open in front of a home crowd.   
 It's always great for the Australian players because it's a better feeling having your home crowd behind you. Then the win feels even sweeter, if you do have a win, because you're in your home country and your family's here and great support.   
 It's a fantastic feeling, yeah.   
  
  Q. Could you hear the noise on Margaret Court? Was it drifting over?  
 BRYDAN KLEIN: Yeah, I could hear it, but I wasn't sure where it was coming from. I knew it was Margaret Court or one of the show courts. I didn't know who they were cheering from, but I figured that Tomic played well.   
  
  Q. Good day?  
 BRYDAN KLEIN: Yeah, it was.   
  
  Q. Before the tournaments, there were a lot of gloomy prospects for what was going on in Australian tennis. A day like today, everything looks a lot rosier.   
 BRYDAN KLEIN: Yeah, Australian tennis has been criticized a little bit recently. But it's understandable. We haven't got anyone high up like Lleyton Hewitt, Pat Rafter, like we used to.   
 But we've got some good players definitely coming. This is a great day for Australian tennis. Hopefully we can get through more rounds, yeah.   
  
  Q. Is consistency on the serve the big thing about playing your next match? Can you fix that up before then?  
 BRYDAN KLEIN: Yeah, I thought I served pretty well today on the big points. It's just my serve -- I missed a lot of first serves in some of the earlier games in the set, the less important ones.   
  If I could serve well throughout the whole entire match, it would definitely help me a lot more. But I was happy, very happy with the way I served in big points. I came off with a few aces at 30-All, deuce points, and I was quite happy with that.    
  Q. Apart from practice, how will you spend the next couple of days?  
  BRYDAN KLEIN: I'm not sure when I play again. I guess I have tomorrow off obviously. I'll probably just come in, have maybe a 45-minute hit and a massage tomorrow, just relax the rest of the day and see when the schedule comes out when I play, yeah.    
  Q. How many of your family are here?  
 BRYDAN KLEIN: Well, mom and dad, and I got a couple brothers that come over. I got a lot of support here. They love coming over and watching me. They don't see me play too often, so it's great that I could actually get a win and show them my game. They don't see me play very often. It's an exciting time, yeah.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT