AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 27, 2007
Brydan Klein
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  What was it like playing on Rod Laver Arena when you found out that was going to happen?   
 BRYDAN KLEIN:  First of all, I was excited.  It's obviously a great opportunity.  Before the match, I was really nervous, not really knowing what to expect going out there, not knowing how many people were going to be out there.   
 Went out there pretty nervous.  As soon as I played the first part, the nerves went because the crowd was totally on my side.  Got off to a good start.   
  
  Q.  Do you think it lifted your game, the big occasion?   
 BRYDAN KLEIN:  Oh, I'm not too sure.  I think I played well today.  I'm glad first time I played in front of a crowd that big I came through and played good tennis.  That gives me confidence for next time I go out and play on a big court.   
  
  Q.  How did you get it back in the third set?   
 BRYDAN KLEIN:  I think he made a few easy errors early on in the set.  My game plan was just to sort of get my rhythm back, start hitting the ball back in with spin 'cause I started to miss a bit towards the end of the second set.   
 So then I got the early break, and then I think I got on top of him and started playing good tennis towards the end.   
  
  Q.  Do you think the situation unsettled him a bit, as well?   
 BRYDAN KLEIN:  I think he was pretty nervous to start with because he missed a few easy forehands in the first game.  I think he came back in the second set and played better tennis than the first set.  I had to lift my game for the third, and I thought I did.   
  
  Q.  What was going through your head in the third set?  Broken him, 2-1 up, within sight.   
 BRYDAN KLEIN:  Oh, I was just going, Please hold serve.  Just first serves.  Go for your first serves.  I held the game, then I was just concentrating on breaking him one point at a time.   
  
  Q.  You appeared completely nerveless in the whole third set.  Was that the way it was?   
 BRYDAN KLEIN:  Hardly (smiling).  Yeah, I was pretty nervous actually serving out, returning that last game, even though it was 5-1.  May not have appeared I was nervous because I played a pretty flawless last game.  I hit some pretty good returns, made some good shots.  But I was definitely nervous.   
 I was happy to win that first match point.  Don't want to be out there any longer.   
  
  Q.  Do you think this will sure up your chances of going to Belgium as part of the Davis Cup team?   
 BRYDAN KLEIN:  Yeah, I think we leave Tuesday night, so...   
  
  Q.  What do you want to do in your career?   
 BRYDAN KLEIN:  What do I want to do?  Obviously, make a living and play for a good 10 years because I like playing the sport.  I just want to be able to play, take care of my body and play as long as I can.   
  
  Q.  I don't know if you've seen some of the names in the boy's singles.  Stefan Edberg, Marcos Baghdatis, a lot of blokes you've never heard of in your entire life.  What makes you think you can take the next step?   
 BRYDAN KLEIN:  I'm not sure.  Just hopefully I can keep improving, which I definitely will, especially after this.  I can have more confidence to step up and play even better tennis.  I'll see where that takes me.   
  
  Q.  With those goals in mind that you mentioned, how important was it to you to play in front of a crowd like you did tonight, to come out on top?   
 BRYDAN KLEIN:  It was definitely a good experience.  I didn't want to go out in front of a crowd so big and lose or anything like that, because the next time I won't have any confidence any time I play in front of a crowd that big.   
 As I said, I was really nervous when I went out.  Suddenly all the nerves went and I played some really good tennis.   
  
  Q.  What does it mean to you to be the first Australian boy to win this title in 13 years?   
 BRYDAN KLEIN:  It means a lot.  I can't remember who was the last person to win it.  Yeah, it means a lot.  At the start of this tournament, I was hoping to have a good tournament, play good tennis.  I never thought about winning the tournament.  Okay, play some good tennis, get to the quarters.  I had a goal of just getting to the quarters to start with.  Then one match at a time.  I played some good tennis.   
 I'm really happy with the whole tournament, putting six good matches together in one tournament, so...   
  
  Q.  What are you going to do tonight?   
 BRYDAN KLEIN:  Probably go to bed early (laughter).  I'm a bit tired.  As you could tell, I was huffing and puffing in the speech.  I was pretty nervous and I was tired at the same time.  Sort of getting my breath back.  I don't know.  I'll go back, have a massage.  Who knows from there.   
  
  Q.  Have a celebration dinner?   
 BRYDAN KLEIN:  Definitely.   
  
  Q.  What is your favorite meal for that sort of thing?   
 BRYDAN KLEIN:  I don't know.  Anything.   
  
  Q.  You said you were huffing and puffing.  You were coughing a bit in the second set.  Is that from the exertion that you put into your game?   
 BRYDAN KLEIN:  No.  A few nights ago it got pretty cold.  I slept without a shirt on.  I think I got a bit of a chest cold.  I think the covers came off in the middle of the night.  I woke up with a bit of a chest cold.  But my throat is fine.  It's just bizarre.  I've been coughing every now and then when I get cold or tired.   
 I don't think it affected how I played.  It was all right.   
  
  Q.  You have some family here.  You've had a bit of an entourage with you.   
 BRYDAN KLEIN:  Yeah, I've had my mum and dad here, my coach, Milo Bradley, and my brother was here at the start of the week.  I've had a lot of people supporting me.  Mark Jones, a few of the tournament organizers.  I know Cam Pearson has been behind me heavily and a few other guys.  All that support I think helped me play some good tennis.   
  
  Q.  Probably the most important support was being put on Rod Laver Arena.   
 BRYDAN KLEIN:  Yeah, I think they did me a favor there, because I played really well.  It was sort of a gamble playing on there.  Didn't know how I was going to react.  Obviously I raised to the moment and played some good tennis, so...   
  
  Q.  Did Pat or Todd say anything special to you out there?   
 BRYDAN KLEIN:  Pat said, Well done.  He said I played some really good tennis in the first set.  He was really surprised with the quality of tennis I kept up the whole entire match.   
 Todd has been behind me, obviously because I'm Australian, helping me out a bit.  I've been having a lot of good support from some former good players.   
  
  Q.  Who were your heroes coming up in the game?   
 BRYDAN KLEIN:  Probably some Aussie guys:  Patrick Rafter, Lleyton Hewitt, the Woodies.  Basically all the top Aussie players.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT