SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 8, 2014
Bronson La'Cassie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Bronson, first of all, welcome to the Sony Open here.   Have you played the course already a couple times?  
BRONSON LA'CASSIE:   Yeah, I've played the course a couple of times.   Yeah, I got here early on Friday.   I come straight from Australia, so thought it would be best to get here early and get over some jet lag if I had any.   It hasn't been too bad; it's been pretty good.   
Yeah, got out there a few times on Sunday and Monday, and yeah, I like it.  
   
 Q.   It's sort of a classic smaller golf course.   Just what will be at a premium this week do you think?  
BRONSON LA'CASSIE:   I think hitting fairways.   The greens are pretty small, and there's a little bit of rough out there, so it will be hard to control your ball hitting into small greens, so yeah, hitting fairways will be big.  
   
 Q.   What can fans expect to see as they watch you play this year?   Talk a little bit about your game.   
BRONSON LA'CASSIE:   Hopefully I hit a lot of fairways and hit a lot of greens and make a lot of putts.   Yeah, I've always kind of hit it fairly well throughout my career and sometimes suggest with my short game, but I feel like short game has been getting better.   Yeah, hopefully improved in both areas.  
   
 Q.   Steady progress for you on the Web.com TOUR over the last three years, finished seventh on the Money List last year.   Talk about that Tour and what it did to develop you a little bit.   
BRONSON LA'CASSIE:   My first year out there I really struggled playing.   I went from playing mini‑Tours where you're playing 10, 15 events a year to playing 20, 25 events, so you're playing just about every week, which was a struggle because I wasn't used to playing so much.   And then, yeah, the travel was different.   I really struggled my first year, so just getting used to that was a big help, and I'm sure it'll help out here.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT