U.S. AMATEUR FOUR-BALL CHAMPIONSHIP
May 24, 2016
Brandon Cigna
Ben Warnquist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Brandon, you guys got off to a really hot start today, five birdies on the front nine, three in a row there from 5 to 7.  What really started clicking for you guys to get on a hot streak?
BRANDON CIGNA: Yeah, I just -- as soon as I made my first putt of the day, I felt like -- it was on 5, it kind of just opened the floodgates, and then started hitting some good shots, just got in a rhythm, and was able to sink a few there coming through the back, and he kind of kept us together on the first match of the day today, but it was good to finally just be on form.
Q. How long was the putt at 5?
BRANDON CIGNA: It was probably like 20 feet.  Yeah, I'll say 20 feet.  It was right at the top of the peak and it curled in there for me finally.
Q. It's probably not easy to putt these things that well.  There's a lot of movement in them.
BRANDON CIGNA: Yeah, some of the putts you've got to hit pretty soft, and that means it's going to break as soon as you kind of get rolling.  So you've got to really have a good feel of the speed, and we hit a lot of good putts, and he's been putting well.  We should have some fun tomorrow.
Q. Two close matches coming down 18.  What do you think kind of pushed you guys through in both of these?
BEN WARNQUIST: Well, we've played 18 holes every single match this week.  It's gone to 18.  We just stayed tough, hung in there.  A lot of guys kept -- we kept being up 1, 2 or 3, and guys would birdie 16 and 17 on us, and then we just hung in there and hit good shots.
BRANDON CIGNA: Yeah, it's not like -- we didn't feel like we were giving away strokes or anything, it was just they were making the birdies, and we were just giving ourselves chances, and we knew to just stay in there and we'd have a good run at it.
Q. What's it like mentally for you guys two days in a row now, big leads on the back nine, and then, like you said, not really handing away any shots but just seeing your lead and the match come down to 18?  What's it like mentally?
BEN WARNQUIST: It's tough, but you've got to expect tough matches.  I mean, everybody is so good out here that anybody can make the birdie on 17 and get back to dormie or all square going into 18.  So you just have to expect to play 18 holes, and that's kind of what at least I go with.
Q. Brandon, any thoughts?
BRANDON CIGNA: Mentally -- this is really cool, obviously, to play in.  I feel like you're so excited to be out here and playing, I think mentally it's a lot more fun than just kind of grinding in like a local sectional event or something like that.  In my opinion it's been easy for me to kind of stay positive and really enjoy being out here.
Q. Did you guys play last year?
BRANDON CIGNA: No.
Q. What prompted the entry this year?
BRANDON CIGNA: We just both needed a partner, and we both play at the same golf course, so we play a lot of golf together.
Q. Where are you, what club?
BRANDON CIGNA: It's called Manor Country Club in Rockville, Maryland.
BEN WARNQUIST: The first time we played against each other was in the state finals.  It was the quarterfinals, and that's when we kind of became friends, and then ended up joining the club he grew up at, so we have some good battles out there, and we knew our games matched well together.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT