NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SUNS v LAKERS
May 26, 2010
Channing Frye
Jason Richards
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You covered Kobe a couple of times?  
 JASON RICHARDSON: A little bit. We're just trying to throw a lot of different things at him and see what works. The zone is definitely necessary. But they're going to try to figure out a way to beat it.   
 Kobe shot the ball incredibly well last night. Had some big-time jumps for them and basically took the game over in the third quarter, but we found a way to grind it out and win the game.  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 JASON RICHARDSON: Not at all.  
  
  Q. Are you getting any calls from former teammates or coaches or whatever wondering what you guys are doing?   
 JASON RICHARDSON: No, I mean, everybody -- well, Game 1 was on us well, they're trying to go to zone and this and that. Game 2, it's what's made us successful, so how can they say it's girly? Whatever is going to make us successful and win games.  
  
  Q. How much fun was that third quarter for you guys to watch?   
 JASON RICHARDSON: It was definitely fun. Those guys go out there and play hard, rebound, they defend. They really set the ball well last night.  
  
  Q. Talk about going to L.A. and getting a victory?   
 JASON RICHARDSON: There are a lot of challenges there. The Staples Center is definitely a tough place to play at. We just have to be ready.   
 We know they're going to come out and try to throw the first blow, but we have to be ready for whatever they have and stay together.  
  
  Q. What do you expect them to touch on, especially with Kobe. How much harder will they come in Game 5?   
 JASON RICHARDSON: They're definitely going to come harder. They're not going to hold up the season and let us win two games. They're still going to find a way to beat our zone, and we have to be ready for the adjustments they make.  
  
  Q. Talk about the confidence with you guys back in the Series?  
 JASON RICHARDSON: Our confidence has always been there. Game 1 and Game 2 we just didn't have it. We made a lot of defensive mistakes and stuff like that, but we found a way to help us be successful and go with that.  
  
  Q. Are you guys loose?   
 JASON RICHARDSON: We're always loose. We never change. We never got up tight, even when we were down 0-2, that's the type of guys we have on this team. It's the chemistry on this team. We just never get up tight.   
 When our backs are against the wall, that's when we get looser because we don't want to add any pressure on us. We know it's going to be a tough game, and an important Series, and we know this is an important game. That is how we play. That's who we are.  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 CHANNING FRYE: You know, I figured out this is kind of a new situation for me. All the media here. I'm kind of a low-key guy. So you've got to just take it as it goes. I'm not going to be happy-go-lucky every single day. Some stuff's going to hurt me a little bit.  
  
  Q. How do you carry over from last night?   
 CHANNING FRYE: Just keep working. Just staying focused and continuing to shoot the ball. I felt like I was shooting pretty good, it just wasn't going in. Stuff like that happens.   
 For me, it's just about being better on the glass and being better on defense, making sure I go out there with a lot of energy.  
  
  Q. What was it like those three games for you?   
 CHANNING FRYE: You know what, it was tough. It was frustrating. I felt like I was doing good things. But just putting me aside, I felt like Robin did a great job for us, and Amare did a great job of stepping in there.   
 Sometimes it's going to happen like that. I think you've got to always work on your game and work on how you can do your job better. At the same time work on what your team needs. I felt like for me to get into a rhythm, wasn't so much about the shooting, it was more about getting my hands on loose balls and really just trying to board a little bit better, and I think I did that last night.  
  
  Q. Some coaches may not have put you back on the floor though. What's that say about Alvin?   
 CHANNING FRYE: Well, I play for Alvin; I don't play for some coaches. And I know how he is and that gives me a lot of confidence, and that's why I'm always working on my game and just trying to get better and leave it all out there not only for him but for my teammates.  
  
  Q. How about the challenges now that you end up going to L.A.?   
 CHANNING FRYE: You know what, we can't worry about all that. We've just got to worry about one game and go out there and play and let it all ride out. I think we've gotten good contributions from everybody at this point, and now we just need to put it all together and really take advantage of what they give us and kind of dictate the action.   
  
  Q. What do you expect from them?   
 CHANNING FRYE: It doesn't really matter what I expect from them because it's about us, it's not about them. I told you guys that in the first two games. In the first two games we didn't play our game. In the second two games we did, and we got W's.   
 So, yes, they've got home court, and we're just doing our job and this and that, but for us, it's just about us and how we can put some pressure on them and continue to play basketball like we know we can.   
  
  Q. Robin Lopez was going to substitute for you, but the official wouldn't let him in. What do you make of that?   
 CHANNING FRYE: That was crazy. I figured if God wants me still in this game, I'm going to let it ride. So I think I hit two or three after that or something. So I was like, Hey, I guess I'm supposed to be in here. And I was like to be honest, a break sounded pretty good, I was tired at that point.   
 But we were in a great rhythm, and things happen for a reason. It's crazy, and I'm glad that Robin is who he is, and we have such great team chemistry. Most guys would get mad and he was the guy on the bench cheering the loudest, and that just shows you how much we are supporting each other and how much we want to do well.  
  
  Q. What was your reaction when you heard the fan reaction when you did that?   
 CHANNING FRYE: I was so inner hyped. I was like thank goodness. I really didn't even notice it was that loud. I know it sounds crazy. But in my own mind I was screaming and yelling, and I was trying to stay calm.   
 I knew they were going to come back, but it's not just about that one shot. I felt like I was doing things a little better last night. I went at the beginning to the free-throw line and just trying to be aggressive on the glass and just checking my hands, and that really helped out. The free throws helped a lot. And that shot going in felt like okay, look, I'm back now.  
  
  Q. Channing, how fun was that fourth quarter?   
 CHANNING FRYE: It was a lot of fun. It was reminiscent of San Antonio fourth quarter where Goran and L.B. just kind of did their thing. We just give them space and they just kind of play one-on-one with the big guy. That's nice when you have guys like that that let me just sit out there and catch my breath wrestling with them big old dudes down at the other end.   
  
  Q. What about the job the coaches are doing. So much is made of Phil Jackson and his rings and the way he coaches. What about Alvin?   
 CHANNING FRYE: Alvin's doing a great job. It's just so crazy to say it's such a chess game between these two coaches and it's simple chess games.   
 First two games they established a pace, tried something, it didn't work. The next two games we tried something that worked. He switches that up, take that's away, and we get something else that works. And now it's a stalemate mate.   
 Now we're going to see what's going to happen and who steps up. And just really for us, it's just a matter of going out there and trying to get a complete contribution from everybody, and/or the people who are left open got to hit shots and just exploit what they're giving up.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT