JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 10, 2005
Wes Short, Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
Pretty nice round today.
WES SHORT JR.:  I played really good today.  I mean, I got off to a good start and didn't    had one kick up there on the 16th hole, I three putted, but other than that I had a good round.
Q.  Did you take a glance at the leaderboard?  Your name was on top of it a few times.
WES SHORT JR.:  Yeah, I'm actually kind of a follower of the leaderboard, so I like to know what I need to do.
Q.  Talk about the chip out of the sand on 14.
WES SHORT JR.:  14, oh, I was short of the sand.  I actually got lucky and got a really good lie there, so I just had, I think, 60 yards, and it was actually a pretty easy shot and got a good break there.
Q.  6th start of the year on Tour.  Did you feel this type of week coming?
WES SHORT JR.:  Actually I went home last week and got some help from my teacher, and it seemed to go real well last week when I was practicing, and it went pretty well this week, too, when I was practicing, and I played a good practice round.  I thought it was coming.  I was just hoping it would one of these days.
Q.  You were thinking maybe you and your old boss might be in playoff?
WES SHORT JR.:  That's what I was hoping.  I had a couple hiccups on 15 and 16 yesterday, and I was hoping I'd make a couple birdies coming in and play with J.L.  That would have been fun.  We haven't played together in a long time.
Q.  Highest finisher not already in the British gets a trip.  Would you go if you get it or would you pass it up?
WES SHORT JR.:  I'd have to think about it actually.  If it comes along, you know, it's hard to pass up playing in a major, so I'd probably go.
Q.  You mentioned you like to peek at the leaderboard.  Were you a little over aggressive at that putt on 16?
WES SHORT JR.:  Actually I just hit it too hard.  I mean, I knew it was fast and my caddie told me it was fast, and I just hit it way too hard.
Q.  Coming back, was that
WES SHORT JR.:  I just pulled it.  It was really my only bad putt today.
Q.  Overall just your thoughts on the week.  You said you were hoping it would come.
WES SHORT JR.:  It's actually good to play good in a big tournament finally.  I've been thinking it could happen, but it just hasn't been happening.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT