HOME RUN CHASE
September 8, 1998
Tim Fornaris
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   TIM FORNARIS: Ready for my drag.  I missed my drag tonight.   
  
  Q.  (inaudible)?   
 TIM FORNARIS: I just started there.  I am an analyst.  I work in the process competency.  I just started, actually, so, I am still in training.   
  
  Q.  You said that Mark said he was going to hit the home run for you.  I imagine you were joking?   
 TIM FORNARIS: Yeah.   
  
  Q.  Had you ever met him?   
 TIM FORNARIS: I talked to him during the rain delay.  He asked me how bad was it going to be; that we should keep playing.  I said:  We should keep playing, but they delayed it, so ‑‑ I mean, I always say:  Hi, Mr. McGwire.  He always says hi back.  Definitely a nice guy.   
  
  Q.  Where you work they know a lot about money.  Do you think you are going to have some second thoughts?   
 TIM FORNARIS: Life is all about experiences. What I have here tonight, I can't give it to anyone. They can't take it away from me.  This is what it is all about.  You can have a million dollars in the bank, but what is that going to do for you?  Nothing. This ‑ I mean, I gave autographs out.  I felt bad, I was ruining peoples' memorabilia.   
  
  Q.  Are you single?   
 TIM FORNARIS: Yeah.   
  
  Q.  Do you have to go help clean the field now?   
 TIM FORNARIS:  I am on the clock and Jimmy is waving his head.  So, I am ready.   
 I am a little disappointed though.  Mark, tying the home run wrong because I have had a consistent streak of two years making every draft, but since he hit that home run, I got rushed away and I couldn't do that second drag.  So the streak has been broken, I am no Cal Ripkin, oh well.   
  
  Q.  How much do you get paid per game?   
 TIM FORNARIS: I don't know if I can disclose that.   
  
  Q.  How proud are you of your son?   
 RITA FORNARIS:  I am very proud.  He is a very giving young man and this doesn't surprise me at all.  I have two very fine sons, both of whom I am very proud.   
 TIM FORNARIS: I just wanted to do a final thank you, first of all, to Steve Peeler (phonetic) the head grounds guy.  If it wasn't for him, I wouldn't be here  today and the rest of the crew, he gave me my chances. He gave me my shot to get 62 and I got it.  I also would like to dedicate the ball to my dad Tony Fornaris. Unfortunately he is not here at the ballgame tonight. It is definitely a special time in my life to be with my mom and my brother, but it would have topped it off if my father would have been here.  But, Tony, this is for you.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT