AL DIVISION SERIES: ANGELS v RED SOX
October 3, 2007
Kevin Youkilis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Can you talk about the at-bat with the homer, and then later the double.  What you were looking for each time?   
 KEVIN YOUKILIS:  For me, I was just looking for -- basically the first batter, I was just trying to look for the sinker and react to the curveball.  And you know, I got a good pitch, a good fastball to hit and took advantage of it and tried to take a good swing at it.  Didn't try to do too much, and luckily I got a good result out of it and was very happy that it got out.  Because definitely left-centerfield here is very tough sometimes to hit it out, and to get it up there it felt really good.   
 And my second at-bat, he threw me a couple of curveballs, and 2-1 I was just basically telling myself hey, look fastball and I was trying to sit back.  If he throws a curveball, try to take a good hack at it.   
  
  Q.  Is it a good sign concerning your wrist that you were able to pull the ball hard like that the first two against a guy that throws pretty hard?   
 KEVIN YOUKILIS:  Yeah, it's definitely -- it felt a lot better as the days have progressed.  And I feel like I'm progressing well.  I think the biggest thing is the wrist doesn't hurt as much now.  It's kind of like moving into other parts of your body.  I think the biggest thing is our training staff has done a great job helping me out and getting me ready for each game and I feel good.  I think the best thing about it, it is playoff time and adrenaline helps the most.   
  
  Q.  From your defensive vantage point did you see early on, did you think Josh might have a special thing going?   
 KEVIN YOUKILIS:  I think every time Josh takes the ball we feel like he has something special going.  He has such great stuff.  He pitches so well here at Fenway Park.  And he thrives off the fans.  I think every time he touches the ball we know something good can happen, and with his past history, we feel real confident that he's going to pitch a great game, and he went out there today and couldn't pitch much better.   
  
  Q.  Was there any change in his demeanor from games during the regular season?  I'm talking about Josh Beckett, between innings, the way he was in the dugout that set apart his performance tonight from the regular season?   
 KEVIN YOUKILIS:  I don't think Josh changes his demeanor at all.  I think from day one of spring training to now, I think every day he goes out there and gives it a hundred percent.  He's hard on himself, and he feels that he should be perfect out there.  And I think that's one of his -- you know, the thing that helps him out most is he goes out there and he thinks he should beat every hitter and should pitch nine innings.   
 And he loves to compete.  And we're fortunate to have Josh to do that every day.  I think he takes it, hasn't changed in the postseason.  That's a good sign.   
  
  Q.  When guys are pitching really well like a no-hitter and things are really rolling, the players seem to sort of let him do his thing in the dugout.  What kind of dialogue, if any, was there during the game with Josh?   
 KEVIN YOUKILIS:  Well, Josh likes to talk on the bench.  He likes to communicate with the team.  He's not one of those pitchers that wants to be left alone and off to the side.  I think Josh sits down at the end, but he definitely likes to communicate and talk and enjoy the game.  And sometimes jokes around about, you know, if a guy gets a hit he says how bad he did or something, but how do I throw that pitch right there in that spot.   
 But it's great.  You know, that's part of his competitive nature.  And I think he enjoys competing out there, and especially in the playoffs I think he steps it up a little bit, too.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about the importance of winning Game 1 in this first series.   
 KEVIN YOUKILIS:  It's definitely great to get the first win tonight.  And going in knowing Daisuke's going to pitch in Game 2 and at home.  That is the biggest thing.  We feed off our fans here and we play great ball here.  We love playing at Fenway Park.  There's something about Fenway Park here.  It's one of those places where you feel like every time you come out here you're going to win.  And I think we had that feeling.  And winning Game 1 is huge.  It definitely doesn't put you -- you don't say you're definitely going to win it, but the biggest thing is it gives you a little edge knowing you can go out Game 2 and try to go up 2-0.   
  
  Q.  The Red Sox didn't get into the postseason last year.  Does that motivate you all in any way in the sense that you feel like you should be in there every year?   
 KEVIN YOUKILIS:  I think last year was disappointing in the fact that we just had so many things go wrong in a short period of time.  We had so many injuries.  And it just, you know, if I'm playing left field for the Boston Red Sox, you know you're in trouble.   
 So I think that's one thing that definitely hurt us last year.  But it's something that we look back and say we never want to be in that situation again where we go home.  I mean, right now we're playing baseball.  How great is that to keep playing in October?  That is the best feeling you can have.  Your adrenaline never gets as high as it does right now.  The fans just coming to the field every day.  Just looking your teammate in the eye and seeing how excited they are.  Guys that aren't even playing that are so excited just to be here.  It is a different vibe.  Everyone's pulling for each other and everyone's picking each other up.  It is the best time of year.   
  
  Q.  How important was it, you were getting some hits off Lackey but for Ortiz to come up and finally put some runs on there?   
 KEVIN YOUKILIS:  It was great.  David, every time he gets up to bat we know he can do something special.  And this is his time of year, too, to do a lot of special things.   
 I think a lot of people have been hard on David all year.  I think it's been tough.  I think David hasn't had as many home runs, but his batting average is so high.  He's done so great this year that I think people have not really looked at David and said, wow, this guy has done an amazing job this year, even though his home run totals are a little bit down.  But for David to come out there and have a big hit is always good.  Because when David's confidence is high, this team succeeds.  When Manny's going well, and David has that success, it's an unbelievable, you know, lineup from 1 to 9.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you very much.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT