NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v BLACKHAWKS
June 7, 2013
Michael Frolik
Johnny Oduya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
JOHNNY ODUYA:   Obviously we have good depth, a lot of guys that can play those minutes.   Skilled guy, smart with the puck, makes plays, obviously a veteran.   He's been around for some time.   
You know, just showed yesterday when you give him that opportunity to play a little bit more, he stepped up and played a great game.   
   
 Q.   What is your mindset going in and how has experience helped?   
JOHNNY ODUYA:   Like you said, we were on the other end of this, so we kind of know what they're thinking.   We know this is not over, that it's a really, really good team.   
Said it last night, too:   we don't want to go back to L.A.   That's a tough place to play and win games.   
You know, once again, we got to bring our best performance, best effort to win the game.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
MICHAEL FROLIK:   There was a huge goal by Hoss.   We said in the room in the second period, we had a good spot, an early goal.   After, I think we played like a five‑man unit and tried to put the puck deep, just play simple game.   
Obviously, it was a good third period.   Yeah, it was a huge win.   
   
 Q.   (Question regarding Duncan Keith.)   
MICHAEL FROLIK:   Obviously it was a great win, you know.   I think if we lost, it wouldn't be great feeling.   But we win the game, and he was cheering for us.   He was great in the room.   
We are glad we had the win for him kind of.   I mean, it was a good feeling.   
   
 Q.   (Question regarding being one game away.)   
JOHNNY ODUYA:   I think that's focus enough.   The last game, the fourth game, is the toughest to win.   It's been said many times, but that's the way it is.   
The other team are facing elimination.   That's when they're going to face the hardest.   Kind of the same question, we had that in the other series, and that's when we kind of woke up.   
I don't think you have to look at it in any other way than that, knowing you have to play the best game of the series to win.   
   
 Q.   (Question regarding Crawford.)   
JOHNNY ODUYA:   Tremendous.   I think every game he's very calm, very composed.   As a D man, too, you feel that presence.   You know if you screw something up, he'll be there to save you.   
He's been doing that every game pretty much.   There's not that much more to say.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT