NCAA DIVISION I WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 16, 2007
Matt Valenti
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:  Matt Valenti, finalist, 133 pounds.  Questions for Matt. 

 Q.  Congratulations.  Do you feel you've been given the credit you deserve this year as returning national champion?  And if not, what does this win say about that? 
 MATT VALENTI:  You mean a semi final win?  The semi final win was a big one for me, [] Dal was a very tough kid.  He had an incredible career, been through a tremendous amount in his career, and battled his way and then really beat up on a couple of guys on the way to the semi finals. 
 The win was a big one for me.  In terms of overrated underrated, I'll decide that after tomorrow night. 

 Q.  We were talking with Matt Gentry and he said winning a second national title is much harder than a first.  I know you're not in the finals yet, but would you say so far this year has been -- 
 MATT VALENTI:  We are in the finals. 

 Q.  You haven't won the finals yet.  Would you say in some ways it's harder? 
 MATT VALENTI:  It's easy to say that, yes.  It's never going to be easy no matter how you get it.  This tournament is what this tournament is.  It's the nation's best wrestlers, without a doubt.  I have a rematch with in the finals.  It's a match I look forward to.  Whether it's any more difficult than last year, I can't say that. 

 Q.  Talk about how this year's run differs from last year's run. 
 MATT VALENTI:  The biggest difference for me is just the starting place.  Other than that, I haven't approached it any differently than any other different.  I approached it the way I approached last year's tournament.  There have been battles, and that's exactly what I expected, and it's exactly what last year was. 

 Q.  Matt, how much do you think your experience in last year's national final, how much are you going to take from that and apply it to this year?  How much will it help you? 
 MATT VALENTI:  It will definitely help in some sense.  But at the same time, it's just another match.  It's really no different than the match I just had, no different than the match I had yesterday morning.  It's just another match, two guys out in the center of the matt there going at it. 
 I do have that experience at last year's final.  The only thing I'm going to take from that is I want to do better this year than I did last year in the final. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT