BELGIAN KNOCKOUT
May 18, 2018
Thomas Detry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Safely through in the Knockout Stage.  Give us your thought on that morning's work?  
THOMAS DETRY: Pretty chilly this morning.  No wind, so that was good.  Ball was definitely not flying as far as yesterday afternoon, so we had to adapt a little bit but very pleased with the way I was playing.   
I played great today and I played great yesterday, and kept it going today, a lot of fairways, a lot of greens.  I could have made more putts but still very happy with the way I played.   
 Q.  Give us a sense of the conditions.  
THOMAS DETRY: Yesterday was dry.  The ball was traveling further, but it was really windy.  This morning, it was almost like sometimes two more clubs than what we actually played yesterday.  So yeah, we just needed to stay warm and hit some solid shots, fairways and greens.   
 Q.  You felt pretty comfortable out there, didn't you?  
THOMAS DETRY: Very comfortable out there.  Like I said, I didn't miss a lot of shots.  I was really steady and my game feels good.  I didn't make as many putts as I wanted to but off the tee, it's really good.  Wedging is great, as well.  Short game is on point, so very comfortable for the weekend.   
 Q.  Talk us through the second to 8.  You must have enjoyed that one.  
THOMAS DETRY: Yeah, the second on 8, my 17th hole, that was good.  My caddie said something like play a bit longer.  It was just my perfect distance.  I was like, all right, I'm just going to go for it.  I don't really care.  I hit the perfect shot to three feet, so that always feels good to have a tap-in for birdie.   
 Q.  Par save on 9?  
THOMAS DETRY: It's a tough hole on 9 because it feels like the wind should be helping or straight off the right and you never really know because it swirls around and then at one point like right before I hit my golf shot, it felt into, so yeah, I kind of left it out right, but hit a great shot there, almost holed my chip shot and a good, solid par.   
 Q.  How much are you looking forward to the weekend and are you aware of the seedings, top 16?  
THOMAS DETRY: Yeah, I'm definitely aware of that.  It's going to be -- I think it's going to be exciting.  I've never played that kind of format.  It different.  It's not match play, so it's not like, okay, I'm making five birdies and two doubles.  You've actually got to like play steady golf, so strategy will be important, so I'm looking forward to that.  It's going to be interesting but I'm very comfortable for the weekend.   
 Q.  Will it bring out more aggressive golf tomorrow, do you feel?  
THOMAS DETRY: Yeah, I don't think it will bring as much aggressive golf as match-play format would, but it will definitely bring some excitement for the crowd.  I think strategy will be important.  If one guy misses and then the fun part is, you never know.  On the last hole, the guy is like 2-over and you're like 4-over, well, an eagle or a birdie might make a big difference.  So yeah, it's going to be fun.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT