BELGIAN KNOCKOUT
May 17, 2018
Thomas Detry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Thoughts on a 67 today?
THOMAS DETRY: What can I say, the first round here in Belgium in front of record crowds, shooting 4-under and finishing with three birdies like that, it doesn't get any better.  The course was perfect.  Greens were firm and fast, which was good.  It got a little windy out there, as well, so we'll have to be careful on a few holes.  I played some very good golf and I'm excited for the rest of the week.
Q. Fantastic way to close out the round.
THOMAS DETRY: Yeah, it was great.  That short par 4, 16, I hit a perfect drive there.  Just needed a 2-putt and I've been working hard on my wedge and it paid off on the last two holes.
Hit it on 17 within three, four feet and 18, another good one there.  It just doesn't get any better to finish with three birdies.
Q. What particularly pleased you about your play today?
THOMAS DETRY: Just very steady.  I only made one bogey, one littler or on one of the toughest holes on the course, that was about it, but five birdies which I didn't really make any long, long putts out there.  So just very steady, you know, fairways and greens, and just doing my thing.
Q. Did you feel pressure out there, playing in Belgium for the first time in a tournament on The European Tour, and the support you had out there?
THOMAS DETRY: No, I really didn't feel any pressure until I got up to the first hole.  The first tee, I was like, I kind of felt a little something but then I started with a birdie right away and yeah, just got into the flow and kept playing well.  So not really that much pressure.
Q. How was the support?
THOMAS DETRY: Massive.  I think Pieters was playing behind me, so a lot of people were following him, but it's just awesome to see some familiar faces, friends from home, everybody out here supporting.  It's just great for golf and great for golf in Belgium and great for me.
Q. You're well positioned to qualify into the top 64.  How important is that to sort of get up the leaderboard, as it were, in terms of seedings?
THOMAS DETRY: Well, it's a little different format.  All you've got to do is pretty much finish inside the top 64.  We talked about it yesterday with my caddie.  We are just trying to win this thing.
There's no point of trying to just make it inside the top 64.  Just trying to go out there and shoot as low as I can and that's what I'm doing.  I don't really think it's going to make a huge difference to whether I shoot 10-under tomorrow or 1-under.  But it will just be good for my confidence.  I'm just going out there tomorrow and trying to shoot as low as I can.
Q. Do you feel your game is in a position to win this?
THOMAS DETRY: Yeah, definitely.  I mean, everything can happen during the weekend but I'm playing well, I'm driving the ball well and I'm putting better, so, yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT