ABU DHABI HSBC CHAMPIONSHIP
January 20, 2018
Thomas Detry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  A round of 64, what's pleased your most about your play?  
THOMAS DETRY: I hit a lot of fairways, a lot of greens.  17, I missed it right off the tee but a lot of stress-free golf.   
 Q.  What is the thing that's most impressive to you, or you're most pleased with?  Only one bogey through 54 holes, and you've made so many birdies.  
THOMAS DETRY: Yes, a lot of stress-free golf.  Hit a lot of fairways, a lot of greens.  Just really good off the tee and the greens, as well.  Some good testers and.   
I had a lot of 4-, 5-, 6-footers right-to-left, left-to-right a little bit of grain.  So you have to be careful with those.  I just managed pretty well, so pretty pleased with the way I played.   
 Q.  Every player likes to come out and have a fast start to the season.  You played obviously last week, new caddie on the bag, but tell us, a few of the guys from that Belgian camp are doing well, including yourself.  
THOMAS DETRY: Yeah, we've got a strong Team Belgium out here on Tour.  We had Team Belgium campus training down in southern France.  It was a lot of fun with Nico, TP and my two coaches.  It was great.  It's a great way to get ready for the season.  Last week was a little difficult but it was a good way to get it going again and find a rhythm for this week.   
 Q.  Round of 64, what was most pleasing about your game out there today?  
THOMAS DETRY: Just a lot of stress-free golf.  It was good, hit a lot of fairways, a lot of greens.   I've been doing that the whole week, actually.  Made only one bogey in the 54 holes, so it was really good.  I was able to get it going.   
Today the putter was hotter and I hit some close ones and made some good putts, like the one on 17, that was a bonus.  So very pleased with the way I'm playing golf and I'm excited for the rest of the season.   
 Q.  You finished with a run of a few pars and from the seventh five in a row.  What was the different mindset once you get a run of birdies like that?  
THOMAS DETRY: For some reason I get hot, and out here, I hit a few good tee shots and I left myself short irons into the greens.  I hit them close and I was able to read the line properly.  That's it.  Sounds easy but it's tougher to do that than to actually say it.   
 Q.  Just talk us through the putt on the 17th, that was a bonus.  
THOMAS DETRY: Yeah, massive bonus.  I hit it way right off the tee.  Just a bad drive and I needed to play left, so I was fairly conservative with my second shot into the green.  I was more focused on the speed but it was perfect speed.   
 Q.  What's the difference between this week and last week in South Africa?  
THOMAS DETRY: A lot of things were different, especially the grass in South Africa, you come back from a long break, still went down to southern France to practise but it was still a long break without playing.  And you go down there with the difference in altitude and the ball flight is more and the grass was different.  It was a little bit of a change and adjustment, but good to get ready for this week.  Just play the same way as I played today, go out there, birdie the first holes and keep doing what I'm doing.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT