BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 25, 2017
Thomas Detry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Great round, great tournament overall.  How happy are you, or are you a little disappointed?
THOMAS DETRY: Yeah, you always have that little bit of feeling, sour feeling in yourself when you finish just short.  But overall, super happy with the way I played.  It's my first top two ever on The European Tour, and it's fantastic.  I couldn't be happier and I'm very excited for the weeks ahead.  My game is feeling great, and who knows, maybe in the next weeks.
Q. Let's talk about your last approach shot, you shot into the stands and the audience.  Were you a little bit nervous?
THOMAS DETRY: Not really nervous but I was kind of in between clubs and tried to fit in a shot, and the wind was coming off the right.  You know there's the stands on the left and the water on the right, so you always prefer on the left and you know you have an easy chip for the flag.  I dropped it.  I didn't have the best lie, and did my best to try and make a four.
It was a great round.  I got off to a great start.  I made birdie on 2, and 4, 5, 6, very good, and made some great putts, as well.  Shot 5-under on the front and made kind of a clumsy bogey on 10, and then two great up-and-downs on 11 and 12.  I think that was a key moment today.  You all have that little down during the round and I managed to make par, par on 11, 12, so very happy with 6-under.  Could have shot 7-under, but one short; next time.
Q. Tell us about the second shot into 18.  Was that nerves or just avoiding the water?
THOMAS DETRY: No, it's not really nerves.  I felt very comfortable out there.  I don't know why, but it was a good day, good mind-set.  I was just in between two clubs, and water right; you know if you hit it left, you will have an easy-ish up-and-down for birdie.  So yeah, that's what I did.  I kind of bailed out on the left but it wasn't my best shot but I still had a chance to make birdie, and I made five birdies.  So I'm still very happy today.
Q. Obviously just missed out but how much confidence does it give you that you're so close to getting a win?
THOMAS DETRY: A lot of confidence.  I knew my game was in very good shape.  I wasn't putting great and now I'm making some good putts, it's good to be in that position on the weekend.  I think the more you get into those positions, the better you can deal with them.  So I've just got to keep doing my thing and the win will come soon.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT