NEDBANK GOLF CHALLENGE PRESENTED BY GARY PLAYER
November 14, 2019
Thomas Detry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  6-under 66. Your round got off to a fast start, 4-under par through five. What was key to that?  
THOMAS DETRY: Very sharp iron shots. I hit it close. I think I had a tap-in off and on the second. Par 5 was the first and I hit a good putt on the third. I had it going pretty quickly. I have got good vibes out here. I played pretty well here last year. Not quite as good as Louis today, but shot 6-under today. Pretty happy today. It was not easy. It was gusty and windy, but pretty happy with the way I played.   
 Q.  Was there a feeling coming into the week that it was going to be a good one? Because you've been showing some good form recently.  
THOMAS DETRY: I've been playing really, really well recently. You know, again last week, I was 11-under after two rounds and didn't play quite as good on the weekend, but I'm very comfortable with my game, and if I can keep the putter hot for four days, then something might happen.   
 Q.  You came into the week 66th in The Race to Dubai, and now you need to move forward to make the DP World grand finale next week. Is that motivating you to have a good week this week?  
THOMAS DETRY: Yeah, definitely. Race to Dubai is definitely one of my goals for the year. I've been playing really well this year. Only missed three cuts. Kind of missing one of those big finishes, a big Sunday that gets me inside the top three or top five.   
So only 66th right now in The Race to Dubai. But a good week here, and I'll see you in Dubai next week.   
 Q.  You mentioned the fact you've only missed three cuts. You've had a host of Top 15 finishes but your best is 8th. What's needed just to take knew contention and eventually win?  
THOMAS DETRY: Yeah, I think I've been holding it back a little bit sometimes during the week and on Sundays, as well. I've been not far away and sometimes I've been one or two shots I've been 8th or only one or two shots away from second.   
It's a game of details. So it's all going to click one day and I'm just staying patient.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT