BETFRED BRITISH MASTERS
May 9, 2019
Thomas Detry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Six birdies and an eagle in a round of 66.  Did you do everything well or one particular aspect?
THOMAS DETRY: Yeah, everything was pretty good, but putting was extremely good.  I found some good momentum on the greens.  It wasn't easy out there because it was raining and cold.  It was tricky, coming from China and Morocco where it was 25, 30 degrees.  Different type of golf.
Q. Are you a fan of links golf?  Some people love it.  Some people say they don't like the funny bounces that ruin good shots?
THOMAS DETRY: I like it.  I played a lot of links golf when I was an amateur.  Played here at the British Amateur in 2011.  I remember the course and enjoy it.  We didn't play that many links courses unfortunately during the year but it's good to be here.
Q. Steady start to the season, first seven tournaments, made all the cuts and a Top 15, and last week a withdrawal with a neck issue in China and you came back to London to get some treatment.  Okay now?
THOMAS DETRY: Yeah, I felt something in Morocco already and flying over to China started to feel worse and worse and worse.  Got some treatment last week in London and I guess it was pretty good to get some fresh, as well, and be ready for this week.
Q. Your best first round so far this season, Dubai, 68, you went two shots better today.  How did you find it?
THOMAS DETRY: Yeah, very good.  You know, I got some momentum on the greens and got it going.  I was 2-under after three, and yeah, especially on my back nine, started my back nine with birdie, eagle, birdie and that got me right into the mix.  Feels good to shoot a low one again.
Pulled out last week because I was injured.  Got some good rest and I'm feeling fresh and good now.  A Top-10 in Morocco, so the game feels pretty good.  Yeah, it was fun to play out there.
Q. How is the neck?  You pulled out of China because of a sore neck.  I think you mentioned it's not quite 100 per cent?
THOMAS DETRY: Yeah, I still feel it a little bit but it's much better than what it was.  It was hurting a little in Morocco and with the travelling and going to China, that didn't make it any better, so yeah, much better, so like I said, I feel much better and fresher.
Q. I feel I need to offer apologies for the weather.  I think you anticipated better weather for golf in May?
THOMAS DETRY: I packed for three weeks, we were in Morocco where it was 25 or 30 degrees and now we are here where it's five degrees and raining and windy.  It's different golf but we just have to deal with it.
Q. What do you need to go going through the week to stay in contention for the weekend?
THOMAS DETRY: See a little bit of sun popping up into Saturday and Sunday, but we're not in the weekend yet.  Tomorrow is going to be a tough one, as well.  It's going to be cold, but the weather is going to get better.  Just keep playing my game.  Hit a lot of fairways and greens out here.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT