NEDBANK GOLF CHALLENGE PRESENTED BY GARY PLAYER
November 10, 2018
Thomas Detry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Level through 12 holes today and then four birdies in five.  How much was that a case of patience being rewarded?
THOMAS DETRY: Yeah, I mean, it's so hard out here, and I almost lost my head out there after bogeying pretty much the easiest hole on the golf course.  Patience paid off.
Yeah, I was very pleased.  I made three good putts, and very pleased to finish with an amazing four on the last hole.
Q. Despite shooting 66 yesterday, you were a little frustrated to walk off with bogey on the last.  What about the par putt today?
THOMAS DETRY: I hit a great tee shot and left myself a long one in.  Missed it right and hit a terrible shot.  I mean, just one putt and that's it.  Just doesn't matter how you do it; it's what you do.
Q. How much is this performance built on the confidence you got last week from finishing well?
THOMAS DETRY: Massive.  I was well rested before Turkey and knew I was playing well and played well in Turkey.  I know that if I play my game, I have a chance to compete out here, so it's a lot of fun.
Q. I know you were disappointed yesterday to bogey your final hole, so that smile on your face I think said it all when that long putt dropped on 18?
THOMAS DETRY: Yeah, I wasn't expecting it.  I was like, if I make a 5, I'm still out there and it went in.  It was looking good the whole way.  I thought at one point it might have been short but just dropped in the center of the cup, so it was a great feeling to finish with a four out there.
Q. What is it about the back nine that seems to suit your eye?
THOMAS DETRY: I really don't know.  Maybe the greens.  I think the front nine, I might be playing a bit more conservative off the tee.  I think that's what makes a difference.  I mean, there's so many holes out there where you can make high numbers, so I think favoring the fairways.
But you can definitely play a little bit more aggressive on the back nine and it pays off right away.
Q. Third round of this championship.  Have the rounds been vastly different?  Have they all varied in the way you've played them?
THOMAS DETRY: You know, really not that much.  I played some great golf the first day, as well and the course kind of punched me in the face on two holes.  I carded a triple-bogey and a double-bogey.  Didn't happen today.
Q. How nice to be bringing good form into the last two events of the year now?
THOMAS DETRY: Yeah, fantastic.  Those are the biggest events, as well, of the year, so it's great to be able to play some of my best golf out here and still feel like that I have some left in the tank, so I'm very excited for the next few weeks and for tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT