KITCHENAID SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 25, 2018
Barry Lane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Level par for the day.  Was it a struggle?  
BARRY LANE: Yeah, I didn't play quite as well as yesterday and just a couple of shots really I mean the shot at 7 wasn't a bad shot, it was just in long rough and you got to try and -- didn't quite get out by an inch or so and made bogey there.   
And then 3-putted the next.   
So a bit of a bit of a bother, really.   
And then obviously birdie on 9, which was nice to get it back.   
 Q.  Especially after that drive as well.  
BARRY LANE: Yeah, lovely drive and it was just dead, really.  But so I played all right didn't quite play as well as yesterday.  I had a really nice -- I bogeyed 13, the par-3.   
Then birdied 14.   
And didn't get up-and-down at 15 after two good shots just right of the green.   
But I made a good save at 16 for par.   
So all in all, yeah, I mean it's, you have no disaster, that's the thing, you're still there and stuff, so it's just hopefully a nice weekend.   
 Q.  I think the lowest score of the day so far is 3-under, something like that.  
BARRY LANE: Yeah, it's much, much tougher today.   
 Q.  Especially with the wind?  
BARRY LANE: Yeah, much different.  We were hitting the driver and 9-iron.  Today it's like driver, 4-iron today.  And you can get caught out a little bit as well like at No. 9.  We couldn't get anywhere near the rough, it's 300 yards, and then all of a sudden you get a pitch on top of the ridge and it runs forever.   
And some tough pins as well.  If you don't get in the right areas -- even 9 is very difficult with that green as big as it is. (wind noise) you come over the edge of the green there to get in the back.  So it's always pushing it away.   
But, yeah, those last few holes are playing pretty tough I would have to say, 16, 17 and 18.  But all in all I'm happy.   
 Q.  No disasters as well.  
BARRY LANE: Yeah, no.   
 Q.  Keep pace with the guys at the top of the leaderboard.  
BARRY LANE: Absolutely.  Probably be three or four behind going into the weekend.  There's always somebody going to play really well in the afternoon, but, yeah, it's nice to be here and nice to be playing well and have a lie-in this morning and see how we go tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT