THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 28, 2012
Barry Lane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 BARRY LANE:   I mean, I had a lesson last week, and I think I was over exaggerating the lesson.   I didn't play great on Thursday, but I got round yesterday after playing terribly on Thursday.   I just went out today and just hit balls on the range, hit it really nice on the range, just sort of knew what I was trying to do but not forcefully doing it.   Just trying to get a little bit square on the way back.   I drove the ball well and hit the ball well.   I made two bogeys, one at the 1st and one at 15, that were actually really good shots.   
   
 Q.   What is it about Scotland?   You won the Scottish Open on the main Tour, you've won the last two Scottish Opens on the Senior Tour.   What is it about this country?  
BARRY LANE:   I love the golf, I love the atmosphere.   The people are fantastic.   They always give me a warm welcome.   I like it windy.   I think that's it.   I like it windy, and I've got pretty good imagination for chipping around and stuff.   I like to be able to play when the courses are like this, when you have to figure out whether you're going to hook it or cut it or whatever.   Obviously if you're not playing well, it's not good, but if you're playing well, it's great fun.   
   
 Q.   Talk about inspiring you, the fact that Roger Chapman has won the last two senior majors, are you thinking, I can do it?  
BARRY LANE:   Yeah, Roger is unbelievable.   He's always been a fantastic player and a great striker of the ball and such a great guy.   Everybody is absolutely chuffed for him.   He's done fantastic to win the PGA and the U.S. Open Seniors.   We're all inspired anyway, especially when Americans come over and it's a major.   It is inspiring to see him do so well.   But we all know how good he was and we all know how good everybody is, really.   So if it's your week, it's your week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT