U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 15, 2012
Barry Lane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Here with Barry Lane.   You made eight birdies today.   Take me through, why was the hole so big for you?
BARRY LANE:   It wasn't really.   I just played, actually, pretty poorly all week, and I've not putted particularly well.   We worked on the putting and worked on the game a little bit in the afternoon.   I had a four‑footer at 1st, four‑footer at the 2nd.   Three‑putted the 3rd.   Bogeyed the 4.   Then three foot the next, five foot the next, three foot the next, three foot the next.   So, I mean, it was just like this all the way around.
And then made a silly mistake at 10, three‑putted that one.   And then birdied it at 11.   12, I just missed the green there, and then played nicely with a two‑putt at the par 5, and that was it, really.

Q.   Based on what you just said, would you say that the hole locations are fairly accessible today? 
BARRY LANE:   They are if you hit the right shots.   But if you're at ‑‑ hole 2 is really accessible, but if you hit it three yards left of the hole, it will go the other way, and then you'll have so hard to two‑putt. 
So if you get it into the little quadrants where the flags are, you've got a real chance because it can go there.   But if you start missing those slopes, you'll have some hard putts.
It's out there, but as you saw, I had eight birdies and four bogeys.   So three‑putt twice, and so for not bad shots.   So it's set up really well.   It's good fun.

Q.   How is it‑‑ finishing with a nice round like this, how does it make you‑‑ does it change your overall impressions on your week? 
BARRY LANE:   No.   You just play every day.   Golf's a funny game.   I just really wanted to find something because I'm playing next week in the British Open, in the main British Open, and, obviously, the following week in the Senior British Open. 
So if I can find something today ‑‑ and I definitely found something.   I mean, I hit the ball really well and putted really nicely.   So looking forward to it.

Q.   When do you head to England? 
BARRY LANE:   Tonight.   We get there, land at 11:00 in the morning tomorrow morning, jump in our car and drive four hours up to Lytham and chill out tomorrow, probably on Tuesday as well, and then play a practice round on Wednesday.

Q.   Well, good luck. 
BARRY LANE:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT