THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 24, 2011
Barry Lane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You didn't quite manage to hole enough putts in the end.   
 BARRY LANE: Yeah, I suppose. I had a couple of 3-putts but I made a couple of unbelievable saves as well. You know, what can you do? You know full well that somebody is going to shoot a good score and you do the best you can. I can't see 64 out there, 66s and stuff but that's the way it is, very happy with the play I played, hung in there nicely and finished about fifth I think, something like that.  
  
  Q. What's it like on the back nine of a big event like this, a Senior Major, to be right up there?   
 BARRY LANE: It's fantastic. It's what we play for is to have that feeling of being a bit nervous and in contention and focusing and it's great. That's why we still play the game, to get the juices blowing and I really enjoy it.   
  
  Q. Plenty still to look forward to for the rest of the year.   
 BARRY LANE: Yeah, I'll play the Irish Open next week on the main tour, a couple weeks off and I'm defending The Scottish Open in the Seniors.   
  
  Q. You can flip between the two tours without any problems?  
 BARRY LANE: No problem at all. I might try to play more on the main tour to try to keep my card for next year. See how it goes but I'm enjoying it.   
  
  Q. Second Seniors Open?  
 BARRY LANE: Yeah, I just didn't really get off to a very good start. 3-putted the first hole and didn't play very well the first seven or eight holes at all. And then the back nine played really, really nicely. I was hitting it so far, just hit a beautiful shot into 13, but hit the ridge and 3-putted, but other than that, played fantastic on the back nine.  
  
  Q. Normally the harder nine.   
 BARRY LANE: Yeah, except for 10, I hit every green on the back nine and managed to hole a good putt on 13 and had a putt for eagle on 11 from about 15 foot and I didn't hole that one. All in all, it's been a great week. You can only do your best and I did my best and it wasn't good enough. Still, keep trying, keep the flag flying.   
  
  Q. I know you're in it for yourself, but also, it was nice to have that British flag up among all those American ones.   
 BARRY LANE: It was nice. We have some very good players over here and it was great for the Americans to come over and play but it's nice to compete with them. I've been competing with them all my life but it's that generation. So it's great.   
  
  Q. Second your on Tour, how are you finding it?  
 BARRY LANE: I'm going to Ireland next week to play the main tour again. I'm sort of mix and matching. It's good fun, very relaxed. The courses -- this is a real good golf course. Sometimes the courses are a bit short for me.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT