THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 22, 2011
Barry Lane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Barry, that was nicely played today. Out in the sun, two great champions alongside you, and you really performed well.   
 BARRY LANE: Absolutely. It's great to play with Nick and Tom, obviously. Idolized Tom, obviously, when I was growing up. It was very nice. Beautiful day, beautiful golf course. And if you play nicely, it's even better.  
  
  Q. What's the feeling like, we've got good crowds this week, and when you've got stellar names alongside you, does that get your juices going?  
 BARRY LANE: Yes, absolutely. It's fantastic the amount of people out here watching, and you've got so many great, great players. You can look in the clubhouse, and the guys in the Ryder Cup in '81, a couple of those playing.   
 And it's just fantastic for them to come over and play in our Seniors Open as well. They still can play. That's the thing. Very, very good golf this weekend. The past few days have been very good golf. The scoring is good. It's great fun. Great fun.  
  
  Q. And you can still play. That's palpably clear to everybody who watches you. Is your appetite as great as it's ever been for playing this game?  
 BARRY LANE: I probably practice more now than I've ever done, to be honest. And I have been playing very well. I've been struggling with my putting, and then it started to get a lot better. And I just struggled a bit today. I 3-putted three times today. And I missed a few others. Struggled a little bit.   
 Just looking up a bit quick. Really not hitting them hard enough. That's the thing, it's very fast. And I'm just a bit tentative. But it worked this afternoon. I'll rest, still go out and practice a bit, lunch and practice.  
  
  Q. For the weekend, you're nicely in contention there. What are you going to hope to press on over the weekend?  
 BARRY LANE: Just play every shot as it comes and try and do the best I can. If it's good enough, it is good enough. If it isn't, there's always next week.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT