THE BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 7, 2011
Barry Lane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Tell us about that round today, terrific start and indeed a terrific finish on the 18th.   
 BARRY LANE: I played very nicely all day. I missed probably -- I had one putt, I 3-putted from miles away, but hit a good putt for the second one and just misread it. Just playing nicely, a lot of greens, reasonably close and nothing was really happening and I birdied the par 5, two good shots there and 2-putted and hit quite a nice tee shot at the next and found it the heather, which is a shame really because I made a good 2-putt to make a bogey.  
 Was playing well and suddenly I hit a great shot into 15 and holed it from about 15 foot and nearly drove the 16 and putted it down again, not a great putt, to about 15 foot. Then the last, just perfect, a really good shot, hit it where I wanted to, got a good bounce to knock that one in to shoot 67. So from 1-under playing nicely to 67, so very nice.  
  
  Q. You started pretty calm in classic conditions, and then it got murky on the back nine?  
 BARRY LANE: A little bit. I took my jumper off on 15 and then put it back on again as I was walking back on the fairway and put my waterproof trousers when I got to the green and then put the waterproof jacket on and the umbrella up on the next hole.  
 It's outstanding, it's a lovely golf course, you have to hit so many good shots and you have to have so much imagination and I think it's great to be playing these sort of golf courses again. I think if the wind didn't blow, scoring would be very good. I'm sure the scoring is very good today, but it's just a pleasure to be here and playing whether it's pouring rain or blowing a gale or beautiful sunshine; it's just a wonderful place.  
  
  Q. Do you think The Scottish Open should always be on a links course?  
 BARRY LANE: Yeah, it's nice to play a course where you don't have to smash it as far as you can. You have to hit cut shots, draw shots, high shots, low shots, and you have to have a lot of imagination around the greens. It's just a pleasure.  
  
  Q. How does it compare to other links courses you've played an awful lot of them in your career?  
 BARRY LANE: Absolutely. Obviously for three or four years or whatever it is, it's outstanding. I mean, it's a wonderful, wonderful design. Yeah, it's not the toughest golf course, but it's absolutely everybody is having great fun playing it and I think that's the idea.   
 You make golf courses to have fun, and there are several ways to play the golf course and on these greens, there's a lot of danger, if you hit the ball in the wrong position. If you hit some of those bunkers, you have not got a backswing. It's just an all around great links golf course.   
  
  Q. You told me about the odd situation of bouncing back and forth between The European Tour and the Senior Tour.   
 BARRY LANE: I haven't got to grips with the Seniors to be honest. Last week the course was 6,200 yards long, and I just can't compete on a course like that because I spin the ball so much and I'm hitting 80-, 90-yard shots and tiny ledges at the back of the green and pitching it on and spinning back and pitching it on and going over. I feel I'm still competitive out here, obviously not doing too badly this year but it's been tricky.   
 But it's fun. It's like having a week off when I go and play on the seniors. It shouldn't be, but it's -- I love it, and it's lovely to see everybody out there and there are some great players. But when I'm playing both, I haven't quite -- if I was playing it full-time, I think I would be really, really up for it, but I think I'm really up for it when I come with the flat bellies out here.  
  
  Q. Sounds like it keeps you fresh and intriguing for you at least?  
 BARRY LANE: Yeah, now I have to make a decision whether I want to try to keep playing enough to keep my card this year or just knock it on the head and play the Seniors. We'll see. We'll see how we go.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT