SAAB WALES OPEN
June 3, 2011
Barry Lane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How do you feel after two days? 
 BARRY LANE: I played nicely yesterday, but I was a couple over after nine and I came back at 4- or 5-under, which was the worst I could have been. I just flushed it and went out this morning and had sort of four footers the first four and didn't hole one of them. Then I made birdie at 14 which was pretty good. 
 Just played nicely, missed two fairways and two greens. It's very windy and for an old man like me, a 7,400-yard long course, it's pretty difficult, but I played wonderful. I drove it fantastic and just kept hitting the greens and managed to hole a couple of putts, so it was all nice and cheery.

 Q. Expand on the wind and the effect it's having around here, because glorious sunny day, you like these conditions to wander around. 
 BARRY LANE: It is, holes like the first yesterday was a drive and a 7-iron and today is a drive and a 3-iron and the flag is tucked on left, so you can't actually go at the flag. 
 The par 5s are into the wind like 2 and I hit a good drive, just in the semi rough, hit 4-iron and then I'm going in with another 5-iron. Then you turn around, and 190 and you're hitting 7-iron. It is very, very tricky and it's quite hard to gauge because it's straight across the course. 
 You know, if you've got one a little bit left-to-right and you just pull it a little bit it just goes ten yards too far. It's tricky, very tricky. The course is in great condition and a bit bumpy, the greens, but everybody's the same. 

 Q. Given what you've said about the length, are you a teeny bit surprised to be right up there?
 BARRY LANE: I've been happy with the way I've played the last four tournaments on The European Tour and got nothing out of it really. Last week I played the U.S. seniors PGA, and just didn't play well really. The typical was on 9 on the Sunday, I hit a nice shot about 20-foot behind the flag, hit a really good putt just missed the on the left edge and my next shot was 45 yards from the green. That sort of thing. Things are not really going. So I came here playing nicely and you know, hopefully I can keep it going on the weekend. 

 Q. What are your thoughts on going between the two tours?
 BARRY LANE: I think it's great fun. I just have to get my head around the Seniors. It's like playing in a Pro-Am. It really is, it's great fun and there are some great players out there. It's nice to be able to be exempt on both tours, and for me to come out here and play with the youngsters, it's fantastic. It gives me a great boost to be able to compete, still, at 51 nearly with these guys, shooting 5-under par after two days. It's brilliant. I'm chuffed. 
 It's very difficult to keep your card on this tour, you have a bad year, it's gone. So you've got to play well. You see the cut, leading is 7 and cut is 1-over at the minute and might go to two, but the scoring, it's difficult. I'm slightly happy that I've come out on the seniors. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT