BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 21, 2009
Barry Lane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   BARRY LANE: I've been playing really nicely over the last year in stages but not holing anything. It's so frustrating but I've worked so hard, as well, that's the thing. But I've kept hitting the ball pretty good.   
 My short game has not been great but I've been practicing that really hard, and actually hitting a lot of very good chips and stuff. But if you're not holing it from four-foot, your short game looks crap. But today was good. I don't know how many putts I had, but it was definitely in the 20s, which is I think the second time this year, which is pretty good really.   
 But playing well, so I'm just looking forward to just go out there and enjoy it really, same as I did today. But it feels as if I'm completely letting go of the golf club, that's how tight I was holding it, I was really strangling the golf club. Feels like there's nothing there at all, ball is going straightaway, perfect.   
  
  Q. You made headway on the front nine, rather than the back.   
 BARRY LANE: I've actually done that a few times around this course. I don't know whether it's because -- I tend to cut the ball a little bit or like to cut the ball and 17 is not really a cutting sort of driving hole, but it's a dogleg right-to-left, and actually I missed it from 5-foot for birdie at 17. I made two great shots at the last, and then 3-putted it.   
 So I could have finished a couple of shots better, but I'm happy anyway, get out there tomorrow morning early and be a nice day hopefully and play well.   
  
  Q. You say you've done it a few times around this course, 28th stage.   
 BARRY LANE: I've played every year through '81, so that's not bad.  
  
  Q. Some decent results in that time.   
 BARRY LANE: I haven't made the cut the last few years but it's been good. No, close to home, so nice to sleep in your own bed.  
  
  Q. How is the knee?  
 BARRY LANE: The knee is okay, the right one, because I had the meniscus cut off in February, but the left one went in Ireland, too much pressure.   
 So I've had it completely strapped up all the way down the side and they reckon that's the meniscus, as well. So going to have an MRI and if I can hobble around to the especially of the year, I'll have that one done, as well.   
 You know, you need new parts, don't you, bionic men have all need new parts. But yeah, the right meniscus, I had half of that removed in February, and the left one is not good, so we'll see.  
  
  Q. I have to ask about being on your feet for so long; what's your thoughts on the pace of play?  
 BARRY LANE: I think it's very slow. I don't know, it's so hard the first few holes, 460 the first and 470 the third and you have two of the guys waiting for the green and they both miss the green in difficult positions, it's going to slow up play.   
 It's just that the start is so difficult. You've got two very long par 4s and a par 5 that you can reach, so everybody is in the middle of the fairway waiting and then they miss the green and chip.   
 Once you get after that, it's not too bad. But it took an hour to play three holes. And then the rest of it is not too bad. So if you can get through the first three holes in 40 minutes, you'll probably be around in four hours and 40; but it's getting an hour, and then another four hours after that, so it's five hours.   
 But from there, it's actually nice to have to run around. Me, I'm getting old, my knees are bad, just trot around, it's nice.   
  
  Q. How sarcastic was the thumbs up to Anton Haig when his ball dropped?  
 BARRY LANE: I could see where he was. He was in the rough. He's laying up. He wasn't even trying to go for the green, you could see that, because it ran 80 yards to the green and two putts.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT