UBS CUP
November 20, 2004
Barry Lane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








RODDY WILLIAMS:  Okay, gentlemen, thank you very much for joining us.  Heck of a match out there, finished all-square.  Barry, if you could give us your thoughts on today's play and we'll head over to Tom.
BARRY LANE:  It was great.  We all played well, made a lot of birdies and followed each other in on birdies, eagles.  It was great.  It was a great match, played in a wonderful attitude and everybody had a good time and it was nice to finish all-square.  Sam and I dodged a bullet at the last, so we're quite happy.
TOM KITE:  I agree.  It was a fantastic match.  All four of us were playing very, very well, making a lot of birdies, even some eagles out there.  Craig and I made eagle on 2 and Barry made eagle on 6.  So, you know, there was tons of exciting stuff happening out there, and it was punched and then counterpunched, back and forth, back and forth all the way.  Apart from a couple of short putts, I mean, we shot 10-under on our ball; so I assume they shot 10-under or thereabouts on their ball.

We had some opportunities that we let slip by that we could have taken it a little bit lower, so that's a pretty nice score on the last.
RODDY WILLIAMS:  And Craig's on the last.

TOM KITE:   He had a nice putt there.  He had an opportunity there on 16 that he didn't hit a very good putt, and he hit a beautiful putt on 17 and looked like he hit a wonderful putt on 18 that slipped past on the topside.  I think he was a little confused.  Sam was coming down from the other direction, the opposite direction and his putt really broke.  Not sure if Sam hit a particularly good putt there, didn't look like he hit it quite as solid was he wanted to.  Craig just missed it on the high side.  That was a good match.

You know, we wish we would have snuck out a win there on the last hole, but as Barry said, the way we all played, it was going to be close.
Q.  You mentioned punch, counterpunch, looking at the scoreboard, you had an eagle and four birdies I think in seven holes.  Did you guys feel like you had to really bear down to do that or what do you attribute that?
BARRY LANE:  I had a little bit of run there with a birdie 5, eagle 6, birdied 8, 9 and 10, 12 and 15, and you know, these guys, they got off to a nice start birdie 2, birdie 5.  I holed my shots and holed a few putts.  But it was every hole, everybody was putting for birdie pretty much.  You knock it in and somebody else has to follow it in, and that's the way it was the whole way around.
TOM KITE:  Except for the first hole.  It was funny on the first hole, Barry and I both missed the green just barely, but Sam hit it in about four feet and Craig hit it three feet and they both missed the putts.  We're thinking, "Oh, gosh, what is this?"  Then the next hole, Sam hit it on the green in two, and Craig and I both hit great shots.  My second shot actually hit the pin three feet away and Craig hit a beautiful 3-iron eight and a half feet away and he went ahead and poured that thing in.  So that got the day started.  From that point on, it was a birdiefest.
Q.  Comparing yesterday foursomes to four-ball, are you able to just really free-wheel it out there?  Is that the reason you see all of the birdies?

TOM KITE:  Well, when you have two balls going, you're definitely going to have more birdies than in foursomes.  I think foursomes is a wonderful format.  You don't necessarily see 8- or 10- or 12-under par being shot, but it's a wonderful format.  Great strategy.  I think it's a fun way to play golf.  I wish we played a little bit more of it in the States than we do.  I think everybody would really enjoy it.
RODDY WILLIAMS:  Have you had a chance to look at the overall status of the matches?
BARRY LANE:  Just trying to concentrate on the game, let the other guys worry about their games. (Laughing.)

TOM KITE:  I think if you watch the scoreboard -- most of the matches are square 1-up or 1-down, and so you look at the leaderboard on the green.  And then by the time you get to the next green, three or four of those matches could have changed positions one way or the other and for a while, the board was black with the Rest of the World, and just a couple all-square, and all of a sudden you look, two holes later, it's got a lot of red.  This is a great competition, it really is.
Q.  How did you make your eagle on 6?
BARRY LANE:  3-wood to 20 feet.
Q.  Does it ever happen that you play the wrong ball?  They have not told us yet the details, but from your experience, how often does it really happen in a team setting?

TOM KITE:  Who played the wrong ball?
Q.  We're not sure if it was Gary Player or Mark McNulty.

TOM KITE:  Really?
BARRY LANE:  They both play with the same ball.
Q.  Do you remember anything like that in your career?

TOM KITE:  Happened to me twice back when I was an amateur.  I haven't seen that happen for, years.  Years and years and years.  Happened to me a couple of times back when I was playing amateur golf, when you're playing some public golf courses and you're in a tournament and you hit it out of the field in the rough, and lo and behold there would be a ball out there and not really paying attention.  It doesn't happen very often now.  There's so many people out there.  I'm surprised somebody didn't scream.
Q.  We don't know what the details are because they have not come in.
BARRY LANE:  Happened to me once in Holland.  We were playing with the same ball.  The thing is, I think nowadays, everybody marks it with a mark or pen, and in the old days you stick a pencil and make a couple of holes.  Now people put their own little design on it or a line or their initials and things, so it is quite unusual.

TOM KITE:  It's hard to do.
BARRY LANE:  It's hard to do.  But they do play the same ball.
Q.  Who is your caddie this week?

TOM KITE:  Sandy Jones.  She was working the Champions Tour.  She's been out on the Champions Tour for seven and eight years now.  When Mike and I split up three years ago after a pretty exhaustive search of trying out numerous caddies, we worked out a deal.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT