VOLVO PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 25, 2003
Barry Lane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.  Good to see you playing well.  I sensed things might be a little mixed the way you finished.
BARRY LANE:   Yeah, I think I played every PGA for years and I have never really finished that well on the last few holes.  17 is a tough driving hole for me.  Disappointed in the par 5s, but all in all, a good week.

Q.  What were your thought processes? 
BARRY LANE:   Just gave myself a target to get to 12-under and I got to 12-under after 12 holes.  My next target was to get to 13; and when I got to 13, the next target was to get to  -- just play and see what happens, really.  I really didn't miss a shot the whole last two days, really.  It's been a great week. 

Q.  You're in at 13-under, the weather is deteriorating, the rain is getting heavy, but do you think you are just a little too far back?
BARRY LANE:   I think I will finish in the top 5.

Q.  It will be your best finish at the PGA?
BARRY LANE:   Yes, it I believe it would be. 

Q.  You're saying this is your best finish in all of these years? 
BARRY LANE:   Yeah, I've been playing  -- 10th was my best.  A few years ago, I actually made 6 at last and finished 10th that year. 

Q.  A long wait to get back to the Top-10.
BARRY LANE:   I've always struggled with the putting on these greens.  This week I changed to a belly-putter and then putted very poorly and worked on it over the week and just putted beautifully.  Not as short as I'm used to, but a longer one and it seemed to have a nice bit of rhythm.  It's better.  I'm really looking forward to playing the next two weeks that's for sure.

Q.  Did David Leadbetter say something to you on the range? 
BARRY LANE:   Yeah, to keep my posture more upright.  So that when I bring the club down, I get it not so far behind me, a little bit more ahead of me so I could hit a little fade. 

Q.  Talk about your finish?
BARRY LANE:  Coming down the stretch when you need to hit good tee shots at 15, 16, 17, 18, I was a little bit unlucky at 17.  It ran an inch into the long stuff and I hit a good wedge at it.  18, I hit a beautiful cut off the tee and it a bounced and went into the trap. 

Q.  The last couple years have been so much better for you. 
BARRY LANE:   Yeah, in general terms, I've played a lot better the last two years and I'm really looking forward to the rest of the season. 




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT