U.S. SENIOR OPEN
June 29, 2017
Barry Lane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Clean card, five birdies.  How did you do it?
BARRY LANE: Played nice, actually.  The back nine, I got off to a pretty good start, birdied the 11th -- just trying to think where I hit it, to be honest.  Where were we?  On 11.  11, holed a really good putt from 20 foot.  12, I hit a good shot in there to like 4 foot and holed that.  Knocked it on the par 5 and made two putts for birdie.
Then played nicely actually around.  Missed a couple of 4-footers, I think one on the 17 -- no, 16th and one on the -- I missed a short one, 4 foot, to make four in a row.  So that would have been 14, was it?  15.  Yeah, 14.  Birdied 15.  That's right.  And then I missed it from 4 foot at 2, which was a great shot into there, and then made birdie at the next.
And then played lovely all the way around.  I had one short putt from about 10 foot and left it short.  I then birdied the last.
All in all, I think I missed three fairways and two greens, and the two greens were just like putting.  So pretty solid.
Q. In your mind, what's the key to the golf course?  Is it a second shot golf course?  Is it around the greens?
BARRY LANE: Yeah, I mean, the fairways are quite generous, but you've still got to pick your point because, if you miss it, you're in trouble.  So I think, if you can get it on the fairway, then you've got to be a little bit conservative.
A couple times where the flags were, I just hit it in the middle of the green, 30 foot, and make two putts and get out.  If you start having to go at it, then get the wrong club, hit it through the green, you can't chip or putt or anything like that.  It's hitting the greens in the right position.  If the greens get firm, it's going to be very difficult.
We were lucky.  We had a lot of rain Tuesday, and it softened it up a little bit so it made it -- I mean, you hit 6 irons, and the ball's stopping.  But if it gets firm and very fast, it's going to be nearly impossible, to be honest.
Q. Are you a scoreboard watcher.  Did you see that there were a bunch of 65s?
BARRY LANE: I knew before I went out there was a few 65s.  So I'm not really -- I didn't really play (indiscernible), but I knew that somebody had shot 65.  So, but, you know, there's a long way to go, so I was just trying to get in a nice score and see how we go.
Q. Kirk Triplett will probably get out at minus 8.
BARRY LANE: There you go.  I'm not a board watcher, so I didn't see.  It's there.  If you get it in the right spots, you can hole some putts, but if you hit it in the wrong spots, you're making bogies.  You can see by the guys who shoot some good scores, and there's some really not so good scores from good players.  If you hit in the wrong place, it's very difficult.
Q. Was the wind at all significant in your round?
BARRY LANE: Not really.  It didn't really get up.  It was a bit blustier towards the end, and it was a bit strange because it was downwind in one hole, and you play the next hole the opposite way and it was actually downwind with that one.  So it swirls around, but it wasn't too bad, no.
Q. Well played.
BARRY LANE: Cheers.  Thanks.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT