U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 25, 2015
Barry Lane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Barry Lane, 68.   Q.  Barry, can you talk about your start, birdieing four of the first seven holes?  BARRY LANE: Yeah, I looked at it the 1st for a birdie.  Then I hit it about 5 foot of the second, made birdie.  Hit it about 10 foot of the 3rd.  Hit a real good shot at the next hole and to the next hole but didn't hole it.  Then I holed a nice putt at 15 feet on 6, and 4 foot on 7.  And every fairway, every green, that's the way you've got to play it. And then I just drove it -- lucky drive on 8, and it drove in the bunker on the left-hand side.  Couldn't reach the green, made bogey.  Parred 9, and then hit it very close at 10 for birdie.  The same thing happened on 13, hit a nice drive but just two yards too far to the right, in the bunker, made bogey there.  Just missed the green at the next one. When you miss greens, it's a bit of a lottery, really.  You know how to play them, but whether they come out as you envisage is the hardest thing.  And then played nicely coming in.  All in all, a nice start.   Q.  Overall, you're satisfied?  BARRY LANE: Yeah, absolutely.  It's a very difficult golf course, and if you start straying, you can shoot a big number.  I think I only missed three greens.  So all in all, it was a good day.   Q.  Did you like the setup and everything you're seeing out there?  BARRY LANE: Fantastic.  We were a little bit forward today.  I think we start a little bit forward and work our way back during the week because the back nine, I think six of the last seven holes, you're hitting a rescue or 3 iron into.  The greens are getting firm. So I remember hitting 7 iron into the last hole, and I pitched it right by the flag and still finished 30 foot behind.  Greens like that, so they're getting very firm.  You've just got to hit fairways and greens, really.  Middle of the green.  When you've got a short iron in, maybe you can have a little bit of a go at it.  It's a great test.  The setup is fantastic.   Q.  Tom Watson almost shot his age today.  He's leading right now.  Do you ever get surprised by him?  BARRY LANE: No.  I played with him in the British Open a couple years ago and played with him many times over the years.  It's just magical to watch, to be honest.  He's such a nice guy, and he just plays beautifully, well within himself, still hits the ball a long way.  Putts great, chips great. He's now been working out.  I spoke to him this morning.  He said he's been training.  I said, I haven't seen you for a couple months.  He said he's been training.  Watch out, I think, at St. Andrews.  You never know.  What he did at Turnberry a couple years ago, nothing surprises me with Tom.  He's just unbelievable.   Q.  He mentioned the rough around the greens could be as tough as any he saw, even in a U.S. Open.  BARRY LANE: Yeah.  I've played five, I think, U.S. Opens, and it's right up there with those, yeah.  You could get a little bit lucky maybe now and again.  But if you start missing greens, you're really going to struggle.  Like I say, you play the shot as you think it's going to come out.  Nine times out of ten, it doesn't come out where you want it to.  If you get it within ten feet, you've done well.   Q.  Pretty shot day for you, though?  BARRY LANE: I played from tee to green nicely, drove the ball well.  Yeah, this is only our fourth tournament of the year.  It's just, we've got nothing going on in Europe at the minute.  So yeah, my last one was in December.  Then I played the PGA in May.  That was it.  So it's been a long break. I'm glad I played early this morning because this is going to be hot for us.  That's the problem is we're not used to this.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT