THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 25, 2014
Barry Lane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  BARRY LANE:   Yeah.   Playing very nicely, but I think he's playing a different golf course.   I mean that is phenomenal scoring.   I mean the course is‑‑ I mean we hardly had any wind today.   It's so difficult.   
You know, you're hitting wedges‑‑ I mean I hit my hundred club about 140 yards one hole.   I mean you're pitching it 20 yards short of the green or letting it run and it's so hard to hit the fairways.   Oh, it's so difficult.   I mean it doesn't always look like it on the TV.   
But I played lovely.   I didn't putt particularly well yesterday, and I missed a couple of short ones today as well, but I honestly can't think I can be more than four better than I am at the minute.   So I've played really solid.   I lost a ball and I had a penalty shot as well.   That was yesterday.  
But you know, it's very difficult.   You can see by the scores, we've got some great players here, and you know, if you're just a bit off line you're going to make double and you gotta try and keep those off your score card.   You get in those pot bunkers and it's playing out sideways, and you still got 3‑iron.   It's just‑‑ it's hard work.  
   
 Q.   And I guess the very nature of links golf, you'll get some good breaks, you'll get some bad breaks.   
BARRY LANE:   Absolutely.   The thing with this golf course suspect that most links courses you can run it in.   There's a lot of holes here where you can't run it in because it's so severe in front of the green, so you need to pitch it on the front of the green to take the slopes out because they feed off right and left if you pitch it short.  
So I think that's what makes it so difficult is you're in the rough or anything.   Some of the holes you really can't run it because it will just run into a pot bunker, and then when it's in there you're at the lap of the gods.  
   
 Q.   What are your thoughts into the weekend, because you're in a problem position, but as you say, you're so far behind.   
BARRY LANE:   I mean it's all down to him really.   I mean you just go out and play your game and hopefully score well.   You know, whether he's going to come back, I mean it's hard to see really, Bernhard, you know, especially in this‑‑ today was much more difficult, I thought, than yesterday.   I mean you can see by the scores.   And I mean the wind's dropped a little bit now, but maybe the tide will change.   But still, if there's no wind, it's a hard course.   So it's down to Bernhard really, but I think we'll just go out and try our best and try and shoot some low scores and we'll see what happens.  
   
 Q.   In general terms, you're well, you're happy, you're playing good?  
BARRY LANE:   Absolutely.   We've had such a short season.   And now nearly August I've only played four events, and two of those‑‑ three of those have been in America.   So yeah, a bit rusty really, feel a bit rusty as if I'm just starting the season.   But it's nice to play well in this tournament.   I've played well a couple of times in the past, so it's great.   A lot of people here, and beautiful weather, so what can you ask for better?   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT