THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 26, 2013
Barry Lane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Fair effort out there?  
BARRY LANE:   Yeah, it was good.   I played really nicely yesterday, and 72 is not a bad score around this golf course, but I played nicely and played nicely today.   Got up‑and‑down quite a few times and just kept it going really.   I got a bit unlucky a couple of times, pitched it short of the green and went the wrong way, pitched a lovely shot in there and it just ran off in the bunker, but made a good save on the last.   
Yeah, it's been a good week so far, been good.   I like links golf obviously.   Suits me.   Overall it was very nice.  
   
 Q.   You were saying this morning the course is in fantastic condition and a pleasure to play.   
BARRY LANE:   It's an absolute pleasure to wake up in the morning and know that you're going to play it.   I think the weather may be a bit different at the weekend which would be a shame, but still is it will be such a good test anyway, so you never know.   See how we go.  
   
 Q.   And what do you fancy your chances in this tournament?   You've got a good record.   
BARRY LANE:   I finished fifth and third the last two years.   You never know.   You've just got to play well and do the best you can, and if somebody plays better, then they play better.   I just want to play well and if I play well, I've got a good chance and if I don't, I've got no chance.   
I think they are pretty solid.   Derek Cooper gave me a lesson at the U.S. Senior Open and it really, really helped.   It's been good.   So, hitting it nicely.   Didn't hit it great the back nine but the front nine I did well.   So just keep working on that.  
   
 Q.   Lesson in?  
BARRY LANE:   I was getting too square at the top and that's always not good for me, a little bit too square and collapsing a little bit with my wrist and getting a little bit shut on my way down and hooking the ball.   
I've been drawing it for quite a while now and it's okay if everything is on, but I haven't got the safe shot where now everything is a cut if anything.   Around this sort of course you want to be fairway and greens if you can.   It's good.   
   
 Q.   I think you've been the leading European in the last two.   Quite a record to possess.   
BARRY LANE:   Just try and keep going.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT