ALLSTATE BCS NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP GAME: LSU v ALABAMA
January 6, 2012
Rueben Randle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You're a Louisiana guy.   You're no stranger to what New Orleans has to offer.   Talk about the stay down here and how it's been for you guys so far and being able to get out and kind of get away from football for a little bit since you've been down here. 
RUEBEN RANDLE:   It's been fun.   We had a lot of fun as a team.   We've had a great experience so far.   Only been down for about two days now.   It's been a fun experience for everybody.
We're just sucking it up and taking it all in.talk about the Alabama defense.   Everybody wants to talk about defense, defense, defense.   And rightly so:   both are extremely good.   When you look at these guys on film, what is it that stands out to you guys that maybe y'all can take advantage of the second time around and try to get the ball in the end zone, which is something y'all couldn't do the first time around?
RUEBEN RANDLE:   The first game was very aggressive.   So I'm pretty sure they'll try the same game plan, bringing a lot of different blitzes.   We have to do a good job preparing for that. 

Q.   Talk about the turnovers.   That was one of the deciding factors in the first game.   You guys won that turnover battle.   Obviously holding on to the football is going to be key.   Have you guys really hunkered down on that during Bowl practice, or is that just something that's kind of mentally in the mindset of you guys?
RUEBEN RANDLE:   Oh, we definitely take each and every thing we do, especially turnovers (indiscernible) if he's not there, throw it away or just run for it and get positive yards.   We're not trying to really‑‑ into that turnover battle no more, so take care of the football.

Q.   A lot of people want to talk about Miles and his situation.   Obviously he's won a lot of nice awards this year, including on Monday would be nice for the national championship.   As you guys as players talking about your head coach, do you feel he's overlooked in regards to other coaches in the country when it comes to being considered one of the best?
RUEBEN RANDLE:   I think so.   But I also think the credit that he deserves also.   He's a great coach.   We love playing for him.   He'd do anything for us; we'll do anything for him. 
So I think it's kind of a turning point in the season that we all develop throughout the off‑season; that Coach will do anything for us, so we're go out there (indiscernible).

Q.   The whole riverboat gambler moniker, is that blown out of proportion?
RUEBEN RANDLE:   A little bit, but he just believes in his players.   We need a coach who has faith in us to go out there and make plays. 

Q.   Is that why you like playing for him so much, because he kind of believes you guys can make any play calls at any point, that kind of thing?
RUEBEN RANDLE:   I think so.   It's great to have a coach that has faith in you, and it brings out the best in you as a player.   I think that's why we could what we do.

Q.   What do you guys see from that matchup?   Defense was king in that last game.   So what about the offense this time?   Do you think it takes more points?
RUEBEN RANDLE:   I think so.   More time to prepare.   Pretty sure Alabama will have a great game plan also, so I think us as offense have to do a great job executing our game plan.

Q.   Facing Alabama's defense never an easy thing.   It's toe to toe.   Anything you're going to do differently in this game or specifically improve on to try to get around them and get more points on the board?
RUEBEN RANDLE:   Just keying in on things we did really well in the first game, that's block better and pass protection better.   They brought a lot of blitzes.   We have to prepare for that, and hopefully we can get the ball off in time.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT