TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 8, 2018
Terence Steele
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Do you think this pass rush for TCU is going to be one of, if not the, best ones you've faced this season?
TERENCE STEELE: Personally, no.  I feel like we've faced better D-lines this season.  But they're definitely up there with the ones we've played so far.  So I don't expect nothing different.
Q. What sticks out ho you about the scouting report of TCU's D?
TERENCE STEELE: The D-line as a whole is very good.  Like last year they held us to three points.  That was unacceptable from us.  But, yeah, the D-line's solid.
Q. Were you part of the group that went to the hospital, and if so, what was the scene like there?
TERENCE STEELE: Yeah, he was in good spirits.  He was happy with everyone.  He's out now.  He's rehabbing, getting better.
Q. Mentally, whenever your quarterback takes a hit like that, to cause an injury of that nature, do you let it get to you or do you kind of feel bad?  How does that go?
TERENCE STEELE: Me, personally, it just tells me I've got to tighten up.  Can't let stuff like that happen anymore.  Just got to, you know, just bring your "A" game.
Q. How has Alan progressed in his recovery process?  How much of it have you seen?  Does he look like he's getting back on track?
TERENCE STEELE: I haven't been there to watch him or nothing.  But I see him walking around.  He's happy, smiling, in good spirits.  So, yeah.
Q. What have you been able to see from Alan from a leadership standpoint?  He seems like somebody who is pretty vocal, especially on the sidelines?
TERENCE STEELE: Yeah, Alan, he's good.  He's pretty vocal.  He'll tell you when you're messing up.  He always comes up.  Every time I see him, he comes up and shows me love.  That's just his personality.
Q. How much comfort do you feel like it gives the young running backs to know you guys have such an experienced offensive line?
TERENCE STEELE: I feel like it gives them a ton of confidence to know that they can count on us to get our block in and have a hole to run through.
Q. Do you feel like Ta'Zhawn's poise and confidence separates him from other freshmen you've played with at that position?
TERENCE STEELE: I haven't said anything about Ta'Zhawn in a while.  Ta'Zhawn's fun to watch.  He'll deliver big hits, even though how tiny he is.  But Ta'Zhawn will run his -- he runs.
Q. From what you can tell on film, how is TCU using Ben Banogu this year, number 15?  Does it look like he's coming more from your side or Travis's side?
TERENCE STEELE: 15 is more my side.  Yes, I'll be going against him most of the game.
Q. So what is the scouting report on him?  Or what do you feel will be the keys to keeping him disruptive?
TERENCE STEELE: I went against him last year.  I didn't see nothing special from him.  So I'm expecting the same thing as the previous season.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT