U.S. AMATEUR FOUR-BALL CHAMPIONSHIP
May 24, 2016
Garrett Rank
Patrick Christovich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Well, let's start off with the elation of winning on the last hole.
GARRETT RANK: Yeah, it's always fun to birdie the last, and it was a grind for a while out there today, but managed to pull it through.
Q. Patrick, that match went back and forth.
PATRICK CHRISTOVICH: Yeah.
Q. You had a bomb on 4, and --
PATRICK CHRISTOVICH: Every time we seemed to try to get a little momentum back -- we had a slow start, but every time we got one back, next hole they put one right back on us.  I mean, it was back and forth, back and forth, back and forth, and then -- the greens are so different from this morning.  This morning they were quick and slippery, and this afternoon, it's like Velcro because that poa grows and they get a little moisture on them, so it's tough for anybody to make anything.  That last putt was pretty awesome.
Q. Did you feel like the level of golf from both sides was at a very high level?
PATRICK CHRISTOVICH: Yeah, I mean, I got a little loose there for a while and brought it back, and I think everybody had a few bad holes, but overall, I mean, for the most part, everybody was in the majority of the holes.  I mean, I think it was a great match.  That's all I can say.
Q. Garrett, was there a moment that you thought kept you guys going and kept you in the match?
GARRETT RANK: I'm not sure.  I mean, 16 they make a really great putt from the left side of the green, and I've got like a ticklish 20-footers down the hill, and probably -- I was struggling all day on the greens, and just hit a great putt there and managed to find the bottom of the hole.  I mean, that puts us all square going to 17 as opposed to being 1-down.  They get to this one on 15, and --
PATRICK CHRISTOVICH: The putt you hit on 10, that was a key putt because that kind of got us because they were both in there close.
GARRETT RANK: Yeah, that was probably like 20, 25 feet there.  That was a good putt.
PATRICK CHRISTOVICH: And neither one of them made it.  That was a huge swing.
GARRETT RANK: Like Patrick said, we'd win a hole, and then we'd just either hit a bad shot or they'd hit one close and win the next hole, right, so any time we felt like we had any momentum, they kind of grabbed it back from us.  We kind of felt like we were fighting back all day, especially because we got off to such a slow start.
Q. How about playing 39 holes where it's tight all the way --
PATRICK CHRISTOVICH: Only 39?  I mean, I was joking with somebody earlier that they play 36 in all their college events 20-some times a year, and usually if I'm playing 36, the last nine is an emergency scramble with transfusions in hand, and certainly not playing against the caliber of those two guys.  Yeah, it was a long day, but you know, we're athletes, you know?  Look at us.  We're excited for tomorrow.  Let's go.
Q. Garrett, how about the excitement of getting to the semifinal round?
GARRETT RANK: Yeah, I mean, it's always great to play in USGA events and had a taste of that before.  You know, this is why you practice and play, and it makes that long drive to Hershey and back feel good, and makes the grind of taking clubs to the airport and practicing during the winter -- this is the thing -- this is why you practice and this is why you play.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT