ALLSTATE BCS NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP GAME: LSU v ALABAMA
January 6, 2012
Morris Claiborne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   First of all, how excited are you to be back here playing for a National Championship and playing against kind of a friendly foe with you all, Alabama?
MORRIS CLAIBORNE:   It's amazing.   It's what you worked so hard for.   Anytime you can get back here, play in the big game, it's amazing.   I'm just fortunate to be here with this group of guys.   We're trying to get the job done.

Q.   A lot of fans talk about what a harsh rivalry this is and how you all carry yourself with a lot of swagger and a lot of trash talk.   But Alabama players seem to say that you carry yourself with a lot of class.   Talk about the trash talk, when you're playing these two teams?
MORRIS CLAIBORNE:   Trash talk come with it.   But I think both of these teams are both humble when it comes to each other.   We both have a lot of respect for each other, and we respect each other on the field.   The trash talk is just something that comes with the game.

Q.   And the last game, it was a defensive battle.   And so the DBs especially got to shine.   Is that what you see happening again this week? 
MORRIS CLAIBORNE:   Well, hopefully we can‑‑ I know we're going to try to do our part on defense.   We're trying to keep them out of the end zone and try not to let them score.   So hopefully so.

Q.   They struggled in the red zone.   They moved the ball a little bit.   Are you all a "bent but don't break" defense, or were there things you would like to improve from the last game against Alabama?   How were they moving?   I guess Trent's going to get his?
MORRIS CLAIBORNE:   Like you said, Trent is Trent.   But with this defense, based on what you said, we've bent a lot this year, but we haven't broke.   And we just try to go out and play our style of football and that's trying to keep teams out of the end zone. 

Q.   Is it just sort of okay, stay deeper than the deepest and if they move in front of you, like eventually you guys are going to make a play, somebody's going to make a play?
MORRIS CLAIBORNE:   That's right.   We just try‑‑ our coaches do a good job of having us in the right spots and the scheme we play in, and when opportunity presents itself, we just try to take advantage of it and make plays when we can. 

Q.   Tell me a little bit about facing guys like AJ and Trent and just the Alabama offense coming in, what you all plan on doing?
MORRIS CLAIBORNE:   I mean, they've got a good offense.   They're pretty balanced with the passing around, mechanics.   He has an arm, he can get the ball out to his receivers.   And everybody knows Trent.   He's going to do what he does and that's run the ball.   We just have to come together, execute what we've got planned, try to get the job done.

Q.   When you were at Fair Park High School, did you imagine sitting on a stage like this, when you were recruited, and I know you were talking yesterday about being a wide receiver, but did you imagine being one of the top DBs sitting on this stage getting ready for the National Championship?
MORRIS CLAIBORNE:   I never, never.   You dream about playing in the big games, but at this point that I am now, I never imagined it.

Q.   Mo, I have to ask these questions, and I apologize.   Tell me a little bit about your decision on the future after this game and just what's going to go into your decision‑making?
MORRIS CLAIBORNE:   Everything right now is LSU.   I mean, NFL‑wise I haven't gave it no thought.   I mean, everything right now is LSU.   And I'm trying to win a National Championship.

Q.   How much are you going to talk to your mother, Opal?   We've talked to her a couple times.   How much will you confer with your family and talk about what the right decision is?
MORRIS CLAIBORNE:   After everything is done I'll sit down with Coach Miles and my mom and see what's the best decision for not just for me, but for my family.

Q.   Is there a possibility, say LSU wins a National Championship, would that defer your decision‑making at all?
MORRIS CLAIBORNE:   I mean, I don't know.   We just have to wait and see.

Q.   And I guess‑‑ I think your mom said you're going to, like you said, wait a week and all that kind of stuff.   Your advisors, different stuff like that, does it take into account the possibility of being a top five pick, being the top DB in the country, different things of that nature?
MORRIS CLAIBORNE:   It does.   But as of now, I'm here, I'm here to stay with LSU right now.

Q.   You are an incredibly talented defensive back.   I think it's kind of funny that you have a teammate who, because of his nickname, and I think can steal the ball, he's got that knack, but here you are, how much license and rein does he have on the field?   Is he doing his own thing a lot of time and do you have to cover for him?   What do the guys say about it?
MORRIS CLAIBORNE:   He's a solid player, all around the board.   You can't take nothing away from Tyrann.   And after seeing a video, I mean, he deserves his nickname that he has as the Honey Badger, because obviously it takes what it wants, and Tyrann takes what he wants on the field. 
He's always in the right place at the right time, and he always is making plays, and we count on him to make those big plays for us.

Q.   Is he a team guy?   He kind of does‑‑ he wears a suit, dyes his hair, calls attention to himself, is he a good team guy?
MORRIS CLAIBORNE:   You're around him 24 hours of the day you'll see what a great guy he is.   He has excellent character.   And he's all for the team.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT