GINN CHAMPIONSHIP AT HAMMOCK BEACH
March 31, 2007
Keith Fergus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   PHIL STAMBAUGH:  We'll go ahead and start.  67 again today; and once again, for the second straight day, no bogeys.  When the wind's blowing like this, I know you're from Texas, that's awfully good when you can go the first 36 without making a bogey. 
 KEITH FERGUS:  I played well.  I played well the last two days.  Today I wasn't in trouble at all, to be honest with you.  I think I missed maybe one green.  I got it up and down on the 12th hole, I think. 
 Other than that, yesterday I had to make a couple of saving par putts, it was a solid round of golf.  Really didn't putt as well today.  But I played okay.  But, anyway, just a good round of golf. 
 PHIL STAMBAUGH:  Want to take us through the round, five birdies. 
 KEITH FERGUS:  Birdied second hole.  Made a good putt, 8-footer for birdie there.  Got me going.  2-putted the next par 5, 5 or 6, from about 30 feet.  Two-putted that one.  Put me 2-under.  Then 2-putted 10 from about 20 feet.  I did birdie 11 from about four feet.  And then 2-putted the next par 5 from about eight feet. 
 It was one of those rounds that could have really been low because all my -- 2-putted the par 5s, and some really close.  Could have been a low, low round. 
 But I played well.  I have no complaints about the way I'm playing.  Just hopefully it will last one more day. 
 PHIL STAMBAUGH:  How much different was the day today compared to yesterday? 
 KEITH FERGUS:  The wind was a different wind, which changed the course up.  We're not really familiar with this golf course.  Any time it starts making changes on us, golfers get kind of fidgety because they don't know how it's going to play. 
 So I was happy that I adjusted to the wind change.  It still blew it, didn't blow as hard as it did yesterday, different direction.  I adjusted well.  And I played well today.  Tomorrow they said it may blow from a different direction is what I hear.  Makes it exciting for everybody. 

 Q.  How difficult is it, you were one of two guys that actually held up over the last four holes.  A lot of guys stumbled there and had a bogey. 
 KEITH FERGUS:  They're bogeyed out there.  Any of those holes played, 15 is long, into the wind.  You've got 16, short, tough green, windy.  17, you got tough end position with the wind coming across.  Pull your pants up on 18, because it's all you want.  You gotta get a good drive into the wind.  There's bogeys out there.  Fortunately I didn't make any. 

 Q.  You've had a habit of playing hard courses well on your PGA TOUR career, any reason for that? 
 KEITH FERGUS:  I've always been a fairly good ball striker through my career.  I think the harder the golf course you don't have to make a lot of birdies.  That was kind of my forte as playing the harder golf courses well.  So I guess fortunately I've played this one well so far and I'm starting to hit the ball well and so hopefully just continue on. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT