GINN CHAMPIONSHIP AT HAMMOCK BEACH
March 30, 2007
Keith Fergus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   PHIL STAMBAUGH:  Keith, only player in the field not to make a bogey today, and under very windy, gusty conditions.  You are tied for the first-round lead, got in there with a 67.  Couple of thoughts?   
 KEITH FERGUS:  I drove it well today, which I haven't done this year; I made some good putts.  It was a nice, solid round of golf.  Kind of got nasty with the rain, wasn't bad with the wind, but I'm glad it didn't last too long.   
 PHIL STAMBAUGH:  Can you take us through the round?  3 birdies and an eagle at the 10.  Did you have any other good saves?  We had Raymond in here earlier, and he was talking about the wind changing at 18.   
 KEITH FERGUS:  18 changed right into our face.  I had a driver and 3-iron as good as I could hit them, and it barely got to the middle of the green.  A solid round, birdied the second hole, 1 under.  Then I --   
 PHIL STAMBAUGH:  What did you do there?   
 KEITH FERGUS:  Hit it just on the side of the green, chipped it for 4 feet, made it for birdie.  I didn't have to save anything for the round.  I birdied 7, hit two good shots there, 6, 8 feet, for birdie, put me 3-under.  Then I eagled 10, which helped.   
 Made a good save on 12; hit it in the bunker, good shot, short 6, 8 feet, made that par.  That was a nice save.  Then I birdied 15, which was a good birdie.  Actually -- yeah, it was 15.  Had a 6-iron and 6 feet, made it for birdie and then turned around and made a good save on 16.  Made about a 10-footer for par on 16 and missed a good birdie on 17.  On 18 I was just glad to get my par and get on in.   
 Great golf course.  I played Thursday in the Pro-Am, but what a treat to play.  I was impressed.  When you see a golf course like this, it gets you excited.  This is a golf course, man.  You've got to hit some golf shots in great conditions, and then the wind blew a little bit, so made it more exciting, but really a nice place to come play.   
  
  Q.  Did you prepare for the rain?  I mean it was cloudy this morning, so you must have had an idea --   
 KEITH FERGUS:  Everybody told me it doesn't rain here, but I did have my rain suit and umbrella.  That's all I needed.   
  
  Q.  Plenty of gloves?   
 KEITH FERGUS:  Yeah.  It rained three holes, so it wasn't too bad.  So, yeah, I was prepared.   
  
  Q.  When you got to 18 and realized the wind had changed and gone into your face compared to playing 9 --   
 KEITH FERGUS:  I played 18 into the wind.  They were both -- although it wasn't blowing as hard on 18 as it was 9 earlier.  I don't think I could have gotten there, because, I mean, it was howling this morning on 9.  18, the wind, but what a great finishing hole.  I tell you, this is a really good course and some great holes out there.  I don't know how the new one is across the street but this one is good.   
  
  Q.  What is it you like about it?   
 KEITH FERGUS:  It's just got quality tee shots, a lot of really nice iron shots you've got to hit in.  It sits well, sits up nice; it's just a fun golf course.  This is a fun course to play.  I could play this one a lot and not get tired of it.   
  
  Q.  What's your track record in the past in playing in windy conditions on both TOURS?   
 KEITH FERGUS:  That was one of my strengths, the wind.  I grew up in Texas, and pretty good at knock-downs if I'm hitting it right.  I had a lot of good knock-downs today, really controlled my ball, especially with my irons, so that was always my strength.  When the wind blew, I always thought it was an advantage to me.   
  
  Q.  What good is a knock-down shot if you have this many elevated greens?   
 KEITH FERGUS:  They are elevated but you can still control -- especially into the wind -- the ball is going to stop.  Usually it's coming into the wind, and as hard as the wind was blowing, you get your knock-down, it's going to stop.   
  
  Q.  It's not a bump-and-run-shot?   
 KEITH FERGUS:  Not a bump-and-run; it's a knock down, but it's carrying to the flag or just short.  It's not like a Scotland shot.  I don't specialize in that.  (Chuckles.)   
 PHIL STAMBAUGH:  Anything else?  Okay.  Good luck tomorrow.  Thank you.    
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT