NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: BLACKHAWKS v DUCKS
May 25, 2015
Teuvo Teravainen
Jonathan Toews
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Teuvo, coming out of Game2, coming back into Game4, did you feel you had the same chemistry?
TEUVO TERAVAINEN:   Yeah, sure.   I think we played a pretty good game, Game4.   Of course, I was a little disappointed didn't play in Game3.   But that happens.   We have a lot of depth in our team.   I think we came back pretty good.   Great for Vermette to get the game‑winning goal, too. 

Q.   How is the body feeling?   How much of a difference, if any, does it make when a significant part of usual recovery time is taken by a double and triple overtime? 
JONATHAN TOEWS:   Well, I think you reach a certain point where you stop listening to what your body's telling you.   You got to keep pushing forward. 
Same thing for both teams at the end of the day.   You got to dig deep and find a way to bring that same emotion that you had a couple nights ago. 
I think as a team we've done a good job of just moving on from our wings especially, putting them behind us, focusing on the next game.   It comes quicker than you might think. 
It was a big win for us the other night.   But we got our rest.   Came in here a little bit earlier yesterday, rested all afternoon, and we're excited for tonight's game. 

Q.   Teuvo, this is your first time going through a playoff experience in the NHL.   Has it exceeded your expectations, more fun than you thought, easier, harder?
TEUVO TERAVAINEN:   It's been a fun time, for sure.   Always dreamed about playing in playoffs in NHL.   Right now I'm living my dream. 
I'm just really excited to be here.   Playing with some really great guys.   I'm just playing game by game, you know, having fun right now.   I'm not thinking too much. 

Q.   Jonathan, Joel was talking about matchups.   When do you find out who you're going to be matched up against and what do you do to prepare for that?
JONATHAN TOEWS:   I think before the series, for the most part, I think we all kind of had an understanding who we're going to be playing against.   But sometimes, you know, you jump out there and you're up against a different line, whether it might be Getzlaf's line or Kesler's line or whoever might happen to be out there.   You just got to adjust to whoever you're playing against. 
That goes for all four of our lines.   I think we recognize when the top guys are out there, what type of game we need to play against them.   You know, I think everyone's capable of going out there and doing the job regardless of what situation we're in. 

Q.   You got a goal the other night.   Brandon got the shorthanded goal the other night after the top line didn't see much production goal‑wise through the first couple games.   How much of a lift is that?
JONATHAN TOEWS:   Well, it's huge for us.   I think the three of us feel we're playing good hockey and we're playing smart two‑way hockey.   I think everyone expects us to score.   We feel we've been close, it just hasn't been going in.   We keep working, keep creating those chances.   Eventually it goes in the way it did last game. 
There's no doubt that you feel a lift in your confidence.   I think the rest of your game kind of starts to flow a little bit when you score.   Regardless of whether you're in on the play or not, if you're out there for a goal, it gives everyone energy.   I think we were definitely feeling it last game. 
It's the type of play we want to carry into tonight's game because we know we're going to be relied upon for that again. 

Q.   Jonathan, when a series is tied at 2‑2, you seem to get better as a series goes on.   Why do you think that is?
JONATHAN TOEWS:   I think we all realize that the games are more and more important.   It's time for everyone to raise their play.   We get the most out of every individual around our locker room. 
You know, it's just like Teuvo was saying, it gets more and more fun to play in these types of situations.   We got the group of guys that really rise to these occasions. 
We've seen in previous years, we want to again rely on that experience, not taking anything for granted.   We know that they're going to do the same. 
But we got to feel confident going into tonight's game, as well. 

Q.   Jonathan, you've been in some big playoff series.   Where does this rank as far as intensity starting with Game1?
JONATHAN TOEWS:   It's getting up there.   I think when you have a history with a team the way we did with the Canucks and the Kings, it's easier to get off to a quick start as far as picking up where you left a off in previous series.   For these two teams, I think it's getting more and more personal. 
I've said in previous years, the storylines kind of emerge, the personal battles, things that you talk about mostly aren't quite forgotten game to game between two teams. 
I think we're seeing this series get more and more heated as we get deeper into it. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, guys. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT