NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v BLACKHAWKS
May 25, 2014
Marian Hossa
Jonathan Toews
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (Question regarding the power play.)   
MARIAN HOSSA:   Well, we know we didn't create any goals.   At least when we don't score, we want to create chances to get momentum for the other guys, for ourselves.   Today we had a few changes in the power play.   Hopefully that's going to bring what we're looking for.   
   
 Q.   Your shooting percentage is so low.   
MARIAN HOSSA:   That's true.   Obviously I would like to get more goals.   But, you know, I'm getting A‑plus chances or getting into the A‑plus chances, so that's a good thing.   
Obviously I would love to help, you know, score some goals definitely.   
   
 Q.   When you see what you and Jonathan and Patrick went through last year, do you feel it's a matter of time for you?  
MARIAN HOSSA:   I'm not going to think about it, have it in my head.   I'm just going to play my game.   I just hope, you know, I going to score some goals.   If not, I going to continue play my game.   
   
 Q.   Jonathan, how much has being in this position before, how does it help you going forward?   
JONATHAN TOEWS:   I think even if you've never been through this before and you don't have that experience as a team, this series is still a long ways from over.   So I think we're excited in our room, what we're capable of doing.   I guess it is a fact that we've been able to get out of this position before, so that only helps you and your confidence mentally.   
So, you know, I think we just want to go win tomorrow.   We're not focused on anything else.   That's our number one task right now.   We'll go into tomorrow's game planning on winning, we'll go from there.   
   
 Q.   Marian, having been here before, does it help?  
MARIAN HOSSA:   It definitely helps when you have experienced team.   Like Johnny said, we have to look game by game.   The next focus is next game.   There is nothing else.   So we have to bring our best tomorrow and, you know, hopefully we'll get one big win in L.A.   
   
 Q.   If after Game2 you were pissed off, what is the mood now?  
JONATHAN TOEWS:   It's time to bring it.   It's time to play our best hockey.   No more waiting.   
I think everyone knows and understands we can bring more.   We know how good of a team we're up against and what it's going to take to beat them.   
Like I said, we can be really positive about a lot of things and remind ourselves what we're capable of as a team and where we've been before, considering our situation in this series.   Just go play a great game for each other tomorrow.   
So I think it's a great opportunity for us.   
   
 Q.   You've gotten yourself out of these situations before.   Is it something that tactically changed or do you keep playing the same hockey?   What has turned things around in the past?  
JONATHAN TOEWS:   I think not much changes tactically, I guess.   It's just us realizing we need to execute, we need to just be as mentally focused as we possibly can be, and win all those single little battles, puck battles, puck races, all that stuff.   
You realize how much those little things really add up at the end of the game.   You don't worry about the end result when you go into a game like this, you just worry about, you know, the 4‑5, those little one‑on‑one battles you have to win the next shift.   
When you take it one step at a time like that, the game slowly shapes the way you want it to.   I think that kind of comes to the forefront when you're playing a game.   We're kind of in a tough spot in this series and we need to find a way to battle back.   
   
 Q.   Is it a bit discouraging in the later stages of games the Kings have separated themselves from you, been the better team?  
MARIAN HOSSA:   We felt like we did lots of great things in the first 40 minutes in both last two games.   In the third period always something's happened that separated theirselves from us.   They always seems like couple goals lead.   
I think we are happy how we played 40 minutes, but we have to put in the full 60 minutes.   Always seems like we give them some easy goal to score.   We just have to make tougher on them and I'm sure we'll be fine.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
JONATHAN TOEWS:   Well, give them credit, they're a good defensive team, especially in their building.   They work hard.   They're physical.   They're fast.   You know, we've dealt with those challenges before.   Like I said, doesn't matter, top to bottom throughout our lineup, if it's our guys that are used to scoring, creating that offense on a daily basis, or guys that maybe don't so much, we can all find ways to be harder on the puck, keep plays alive.   
If we use each other as a five‑man unit, keep our feet moving, keep playing well without the puck, we can be tougher to play against just by keeping them in their end.   
I think we talked about trying to play that way, especially against their top line.   There's no reason why all four lines can't do the same thing.   
   
 Q.   You've been around Patrick Kane for a long time, ups and downs.   Your relationship with him, if there's things you can do or not.   
JONATHAN TOEWS:   I just think he tends to be a little harder on himself when he's not producing and he's not getting the results on paper.   Doesn't necessarily mean he's not playing as well with the puck or he's not creating anything.   
He just needs to stay with it.   Once that first one goes in, he'll be back to himself again.   I think, you know, as his teammate, you can see what he brings to the team every single night, whether he scores or not.   
I think for him personally, he's hard on himself that way, that he wants to see those results, he wants to contribute to the team every single night.   
We know it's just a matter of time before he gets going again.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT