NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v BLACKHAWKS
May 24, 2014
Jonathan Toews
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Jonathan. 

Q.   What is the mindset of the team going into this?   Coming off the loss, having the two days' rest, where is the team at right now?
JONATHAN TOEWS:   We're excited to play.   We're excited to have an opportunities to redeem ourselves.   Get back to playing the way we know we can, the way we did earlier in Game2. 
We know it's going to be tough on the road.   They're going to be excited in their own building.   Got to be ready for that. 
Like I said, it feels like these three games have taken a long time.   Now we're getting in the swing of things going every other day.   We're excited to get in that routine. 

Q.   When you have two teams that are good at controlling the puck well, are faceoffs taking on added importance? 
JONATHAN TOEWS:   That's something we need to focus on.   Clearly we weren't good enough last game.   We'll work at it tonight and make sure not only our centermen but wingers are ready to jump in and be better in that area tonight. 

Q.   A lot has been made about the Quick save on Seabrook.   Did you feel deflated at that moment? 
JONATHAN TOEWS:   Not at all.   We expect Quick to make one or two saves like that a game.   That's the type of goalie he can be with his athleticism.   He can make acrobatic saves.   We were still up 2‑0 at that point. 
It didn't deflate us.   If it gave them momentum, that's one thing.   I don't think it was something that worried us too much.   It's going to happen.   We'll just keep putting pucks on them, and hopefully eventually they'll go in. 

Q.   It's kind of loud here.   Do you guys feed off of the opposing crowd's energy on the road?
JONATHAN TOEWS:   Well, it's always something you need to try to take away from the other team as much as you can.   It's something that they'll feed off, too. 
It's part of playing on the road, something you got to be excited about, being in that hostile environment.   It's I guess a challenge we're looking forward to taking on today. 

Q.   It's been well‑established the Kings are a championship‑caliber team.   Do you ever not feel that you control your own fate?   Do you think, If we do what we do, we'll win?   Is that ever shaken?
JONATHAN TOEWS:   Not at all.   It's never over till it's over.   We're still in a pretty darn good spot right now in this series. 
It's about how bad we want it.   That's that.   You know, you don't think that much more about it than that.   You don't want to let them take control of the series and to start dictating things.   I think it's all about how you think.   It's all about that mindset. 

Q.   What does Andrew Shaw bring to the lineup?
JOHNATHAN TOEWS:   He's definitely going to be excited.   He's got a lot of energy.   He brings that physicality.   He gets under player's skin.   He can score big goals.   We're looking for all those things, even though he's missed quite a bit of time. 
That's pretty much the game we expect from him. 

Q.   Do you almost have to rein him in?
JONATHAN TOEWS:   I think that's part of it.   We want to play determined.   We want to play pissed off, considering how we played last game late in the game.   At the same time you got to try to contain that emotion and not let it be a detriment or kind of, you know, take you back in any way. 
Shaw is one of those guys that's got to be controlled.   We want to stay out of the box.   At the same time there's a lot of things guys like him can do to give us that energy.

Q.   As captain, do you say something to this team before the game?
JONATHAN TOEWS:   Not just myself.   It's everyone in that room.   Everyone knows we can be better.   I think it goes without saying, we all understand what we kind of let go in Game2. 
We've moved past that.   It's time to focus on Game3. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT