NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: FLYERS v BLACKHAWKS
June 3, 2010
Jonathan Toews
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JAMEY HORAN: Questions for Jonathan?   
  
  Q. Jonathan, when you have a long winning streak in the Playoffs, does the team almost get a sense of invincibility and has that cracked at all when you lose a game, especially in overtime?   
 JONATHAN TOEWS: Not really. We've never planned on a winning streak like that. The reality is in the Playoffs that doesn't happen very often. So we're happy that we've been able to put something like that together.   
 But, you know, we came into this Series knowing it was going to be a dogfight. That's what you saw last night. It was a tough one to lose. Doesn't matter what point of the Series it is.   
 I think we're pretty upbeat today and ready to regroup and get back on the horse and play a better game tomorrow. We did a lot of things better last night. Both teams played quite a bit better than the first two games. Just a lot of little things we can improve on. It's not about streaks or road wins for us. Every single game we go into we want to give ourselves the best chance to win.   
  
  Q. Jonathan, the NHL GM's were in town yesterday and Dale Tallon was here. I wonder if you can go back, how tough was it to see a GM that had drafted you guys and helped put the core together to go? And secondly, how excited and happy are you for the guy to get another chance at the NHL?   
 JONATHAN TOEWS: It's great for him. A lot of guys in the locker room talked to him and sent him a word of congratulations. We heard about that. It was tough to see that happen to a guy -- to a person like Dale, the same way with Denis Savard.   
 Sometimes it's the reality of the business. You realize as a young player that not everything stays the same over time. But especially when somebody puts a lot of faith in you and they give you the opportunities that Dale did, it's tough. You feel kind of personally responsible sometimes too. It's tough to see a person like that go. Great to see him get a second chance. Keep in touch whenever we can.   
  
  Q. Jonathan, I'm sure going into this Series, you expected it to be difficult to play Pronger. Is it even tougher than you imagined to play against him, and how hard is it not to get frustrated?   
 JONATHAN TOEWS: We'll give him credit. We'll give their players credit for playing well defensively against some of our top players. But it's always been about us and been about how we can play better. That doesn't change this Series.  So we've played against some tough defensive players in the past in previous Series before coming into this one. It's all about overcoming that adversity, overcoming the obstacles that are in front of you and just finding a way.   
 We're fortunate, we're very happy about being up two games to one after three games. We look at the situation as one that there's a lot of things to be optimistic about.   
 Myself personally, so many more things I want to do, I want to accomplish and ways I want to contribute. Keep working hard and knowing that nothing is going to be easy. It will be much more enjoyable when things go your way knowing you worked extra hard for it.   
  
  Q. Jonathan, as you say, you are in a good spot. That said, would you like to see the special teams tighten up a little bit?   
 JONATHAN TOEWS: Yeah, that's another thing that can put us over the top, I think. A lot of things have been going well for us. Especially in Games 1 and 2. But again, when things get really tough, when you see tight game like last night, maybe that's one of those little details you want to work on, make sure that it could be a difference-maker in a game like that.   
  
  Q. Jonathan, you finally get on the board last night with the assist. How would you judge your own play in this Series both ways? How do you think you've been playing?   
 JONATHAN TOEWS: At this time of year, there's always that doubt in your mind you always think there's got to be a little something more you can give every single game. You try to bring that the next time around. I feel I've gotten better and better as each game has gone on.   
 As a captain, obviously, whether it's on the score sheet or any other way, you want to be given something that your teammates are going to recognize and respond to. So that's what I've been trying to do.   
 Obviously, I know there's still more that I got to do out there. Just trying to stay positive and bring that tomorrow, I guess.   
  
  Q. Jonathan, would you say the Flyers are the most physical team you've played so far in the Playoffs?   
 JONATHAN TOEWS: We've had some tough Series. Obviously, it feels like ages ago, but the Series against Nashville was pretty tough, a lot of teams that can hit and can skate.   
 You know, I think we've brought our physical play up a notch as well. It's going to be a natural thing, especially -- doesn't matter who you plating, if you're playing for the Cup, it's going to be tough. It's going to be a battle. You saw that last night, that both teams more and more know what's on the line as we get closer.   
 And so yeah, we know they're going to be even more physical as we go along. We're going to try to do the same.   
  
  Q. For people who have been through the Olympic process this year, this is Game 100 and something for some of you guys, and a lot of it really intense hockey. How has your body held up through a very long season?   
 JONATHAN TOEWS: Well, I guess it's not about what your body is going through. It's about what you got in your head and how bad you want it, I guess. How many guys are lucky enough to be in this situation where they can play some important games like some of the guys on our team have this year. It's just -- it's been a lot of fun.   
 It's one of those years that you got to really appreciate and make the best of, because you don't know when it's going to happen again, to make it this far in the Playoffs, it's incredible. It's not about the amount of games that you play.   
 You just keep pushing because you know what's on the line and you know how special it could be if you are lucky enough to win a Stanley Cup or something like that. So a lot of stuff you have to play through. But it's worth it in the end.   
  
  Q. Jonathan, bizarre twist last night, two replays in your game, and a near-perfect game in baseball where it could have saved it was not use. How do you feel about replay in your sport and why does it work?  
 JONATHAN TOEWS: I think it's a necessary thing. Why not? You have the technology to get the right play. Obviously, to get the fair outcome it's what everyone wants. So why not? I think it's a big part of it. And you need it for sure.   
  
  Q. Jonathan, at your best you guys usually bring waves of offense. Do you think you've had enough shifts in the row in the offensive zone at times? You've scored a lot of five-on-five goals. Do you think you've found that consistency in enough stretches in these three games?   
 JONATHAN TOEWS: Yeah. I mean, it's going to be tough to keep things going like that. It's the type of team whenever you throw something at them, they're going to try and take that momentum away and come right back at you.   
 So it's really tough. As four lines, we've talked to each other saying that we really want one line gets a great shift, it's always a great thing that the next shift goes out and follows that lead. Fortunately, when we scored that goal in the third period it's not a fun thing when they come back and get a break like that in their zone. It's one of those things you need to respond to the way you're teammates are playing. When things are rolling for you, you have to try to ride it out as long as you can.  
  
  Q. Jonathan, I think you guys have seen a lot of Briere line. They think they've seen a lot of you. What's been challenging about keeping them under wraps with the chemistry they seem to have at this point?   
 JONATHAN TOEWS: They're playing really loose. Things are clicking for them. We just need to be a little more aware, because they're supporting each other, they're working hard. Obviously, you watch the way they're playing, they're working hard to create plays. They're also taking advantage of their opportunities. Sometimes not everything is going to go as planned when you're out there playing.   
 But pucks will pop loose and they'll land on your stick and things will bounce your way sometimes. That seems to be what's happening for that line. So we have to try our best to try and take that confidence away from that line. We know they've been a big part of that team's success in their offense in the last three games. Maybe we'll have to focus on them a little bit more. More than we have.   
  
  Q. John, is Chris Pronger the toughest defensemen you've gone up against in these Playoffs? And do you think he's getting away with some stuff on the ice?   
 JONATHAN TOEWS: Yeah, I mean, again that's debatable. It is what it is. He's going to go out there and be physical. It doesn't matter how many whacks you're going to take from a guy like that in front of their net, the second you turn around and give him one, you have to be careful, because that's what they're looking for is retaliation.   
 It's that type of thing where you have to try and accept and take from him, because it's the way he plays. It just seems like, you know, it doesn't go as noticed as it would for another player. That's just the way it is. He's done his job. We can still do more to try and take him off his game.   
  
  Q. Some of the Flyers' players were saying they did feel that Pronger was getting inside some of the Blackhawks' heads. When we asked some of your teammates, basically everyone wanted to change the subject. Why do you think that is?   
 JONATHAN TOEWS: I don't know. I don't know how he would be getting into our heads, whether it's vocally or what not. He's not talking a lot out there. He's playing. He's doing his job the way he knows he can do it. So I mean, he's just one player. I don't think it's that big of a deal.   
 JAMEY HORAN: Thanks, Jonathan.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT