NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: FLYERS v BLACKHAWKS
May 31, 2010
Jonathan Toews
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: First question for Jonathan.   
  
  Q. What do you expect the style of tonight's game to be, especially early on from them?   
 JONATHAN TOEWS: I think for both teams, probably expect both teams to tighten up a little bit defensively. I think, speaking on our behalf, we weren't satisfied with the quality scoring chances we gave up.  
 I'm sure they feel the same way. We want to work harder obvious in the offensive zone and try to draw some penalties and get some opportunities on the power-play. I think at our end of the rink, we're going to be a lot better.   
  
  Q. Jonathan, a lot of guys admitted after the fact that maybe you guys were a little nervous or too excited for Game 1. Is that all out of your system now?   
 JONATHAN TOEWS: I think so. May have been the same thing for both teams. It's a big stage. A long week just to sit there and think about it. If you're kind of -- just got a couple of days and you go in that first game, maybe you pick up where you left off in the previous round a little bit more.   
 But, you know, now I think as an a team we feel we're back in the routine, back in the swing of things. We can go out there and play hockey and focus on the smaller details of our game.   
  
  Q. Looked like you guys were able to control the puck a little bit better in the third period. What did you guys specifically work on between the first two and the third that helped you to change that?   
 JONATHAN TOEWS: Well, we just slowly got a little bit better as that game went along. I think when we finally got in our comfort zone and realized what we had to do if we wanted to win that game, brought a better work ethic. We supported each other more. If you're in the right spots out there and you're not thinking as much, pucks will find you and you'll get more chances, and you don't have to work as hard to keep that possession.   
 We kept things a little more simple in the third period and it worked out for us.   
  
  Q. Jonathan, the NHL has been enjoying kind of a resurgence of popularity. What do you attribute that to? And how do you guys build on that or carry that forward?   
 JONATHAN TOEWS: That's a good question. I don't really know. We just play the game and we know, obviously, being in the Stanley Cup Final for the Hawks, it's great for our team, it's great for our city. We're enjoying all this attention.   
 Obviously, it's crazy and a lot of things going on away from the rink that you try not to focus on too much. This is where any hockey player wants to be at any point in our career. If you can experience this just once and experience winning once in your career, I think it's amazing.   
 So like I said, we're excited about this opportunity. And so is -- so are our fans and everyone in the city.   
  
  Q. John, Patrick said it doesn't seem realistic to go a full game without a power-play. You guys have done it twice now in the last two Series. Do you have to do it a little more to earn a power-play tonight? Do you have to work, control the puck a little bit more?   
 JONATHAN TOEWS: I mean, I guess so. It was frustrating. We felt like we worked hard enough and we could have drawn a few the last game. Again, that's one of those things that sometimes is not going to go your way. It's frustrating when it doesn't. You go out there. You kill the penalties. You do what you have to do to keep kicking and survive in those situations, and hopefully we'll get a few breaks this game. Even if we do get a couple of power-plays, it's up to us to go out there and take advantage of it.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thanks a lot, Jonathan.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT