BRIDGESTONE NHL WINTER CLASSIC 2009
January 1, 2009
Patrick Sharp
Jonathan Toews
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  FRANK BROWN: Questions.   
  
  Q. Patrick, you said you were really excited to play the Red Wings on national TV, it was a chance to show that the organization just to show how far you guys have come. How disappointed are you guys that you didn't walk away with a win?  
 PATRICK SHARP: It was pretty disappointing. I think it was a great opportunity for us as an organization to show how far we've come as players to show everyone the strides that we've taken as a team.  
 It's unfortunate that the game ended the way it did, but they're defending Stanley Cup champions for a reason. And there's a reason why they won that game. So it's a learning - it's a lesson that we can easily learn from the way the game went out there and we've got to keep getting better for the future.  
  
  Q. Jonathan, can you still appreciate this event even though it ended the way it did?  
 JONATHAN TOEWS: I mean, it's hard to right now. Like Patrick said, I think it's definitely a tough pill to swallow. It's so exciting, everything leading up to that game, the National Anthem, the fireworks, the whole at months fear in the building, I think it's unbelievable.  
 And we wanted to do it for ourselves but most of all we wanted to do it for the fans and everybody that supported this team for so many years. And it was a pretty big game. It goes beyond just the players that are out there playing on the ice.   
 So I think, like I said, it's disappointing that we couldn't come out with a win. I think it was a pretty sinking feeling in the locker room. I don't think going into this game today there was - we were definitely not thinking about losing. That was not on our minds at all.   
 And like Sharp said, they're a heck of a team. You've got to give them credit for what they did, and we can learn from this.  
  
  Q. Jonathan, on that vein, three days ago, you know that if you win these two games this week with everyone watching, that you're tied with the Wings. And now instead it's eight points. Does it feel like maybe Big Brother wanted to deliver a message over there this week?   
 JONATHAN TOEWS: I think last year we talked about the wins and the way we played against Detroit and how we kind of snuck up on them a few times. I don't think we can do that anymore.   
 I think they definitely sent a message, a couple of nights ago. And they stepped up and played the same pace and the same type of game. It's tough that we came out with the lead and they just kept coming at us. They're so consistent. They've got four lines of guys that play the right way.   
 And, like I said, they just kept coming. And they were tough to play against all over the rink. So it's a tough one, and like I said you've got to give them credit as well.  
  
  Q. Patrick, how energized were you guys by the crowd in the first period? And I would say ten minutes per period, really. And second, did it play like a normal game even with the elements and the new ice? Did it feel like just a normal game?   
 PATRICK SHARP: Yeah, I think so. Before the game everybody was kind of looking around and trying to take the atmosphere and get accustomed to it. But certainly the energy level was high to start. Everybody was pumped up. The pregame festivities were very exciting and we came out and played the way we wanted to, to start the game.   
 The second part of your question, I think it had an NHL game-like atmosphere. I think the NHL did a heck of a job promoting the game and put together a facility that was pretty similar to everything we've been playing in all year. So the ice wasn't a factor. It was a great experience, and it was just like a regular NHL game.  
  
  Q. Patrick, the game the other night, notwithstanding, you've got two goal leads on this team. Obviously the Wings are difficult to play when you're behind. Are they as difficult to play when you're leading them? What's been happening in the games? Is it them just turning up a notch, you guys sagging back? What's been the key with those two-goal leads that you haven't been able to hold onto?  
 PATRICK SHARP: I think there's a lot of issues there. It's tough for us to sit up here and talk about how good the Wings are, but they're the best team in the league, I personally think.   
 So having said that, we're not going to lay down for them. We're not going to give up. We're going to continue to try to get better. We've had two goal leads in three of the four games we played against them and they managed to keep coming and fight back. There's lessons to be learned there. We're going to try not to make excuses but we are a young team and we're trying to learn in those tough games how to win them. So we'll go from here.  
  
  Q. Jonathan, you said a couple of weeks ago that a lot of the guys on the team hadn't played on such a big stage, and you were going to try not to think about that. Do you think it had an impact on this game at all?   
 JONATHAN TOEWS: You know, I don't think so. I think it goes both ways. Yeah, we're excited to come out there. We're fine in the first period, but after a while, I think like Sharp said, I think the environment and the ice and everything was pretty standard. So none of that stuff took away from it.   
 So once you're out there, you're focused, ready to go and you just go out there and try to do a job the way you normally do on any other night, whether it's at home or on the road.   
 So I think everyone was excited to play in that game, so everyone stepped it up for sure. But we had a great effort in the first period. We tried our best to keep it going. But Detroit is such a consistent team that they don't get rattled when they get down a few goals, and they kept coming at us and they played a veteran-like game. So I don't think anything like that had an effect on us.  
 FRANK BROWN: Thank you, gentlemen.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT