BRIDGESTONE NHL WINTER CLASSIC 2009
December 31, 2008
Brian Campbell
Patrick Kane
Jonathan Toews
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JAMEY HORAN: We have Patrick Kane, Jonathan Toews, Brian Campbell. We'll open it up for questions. 

 Q. Brian, if you could just compare what it was like going on the practice last year in Buffalo compared to going on this year and touch on the ice a little bit?
 BRIAN CAMPBELL: I guess I've done it before, so I wasn't looking around as much. But it's the same feel. It's exciting. Family and friends out there. Obviously it's exciting for the team, and to see everything come together. 
 I think the atmosphere will be a lot more intense even this year, just because it's so compact. The seats are closer. It's not as far away. 
 The ice, let's give it a day. It's tough to tell right now because it's the first time people have skated on it. So you need to give it some time to obviously show the respect to the guys that are working hard to do it. 
 So I expect they'll work on it a lot, now that guys have skated on it and it will be an improvement tomorrow, and then we'll make a statement from there.

 Q. Brian, since you've done it last year, did you give any hints to your teammates regarding the preparation or something? Did they have any questions for you about it?
 BRIAN CAMPBELL: A little bit I guess with clothing, but that's to be expected. I don't think a lot of guys wore too much extra clothing today. The sun is going to be different. I never had a challenge with that last year because it was overcast. If it's like that tomorrow, it will be a little bit of a challenge. Kind of like a pitcher in baseball or a hitter, I should say, dealing with going from the sun to the shade. 
 So it was pretty good. I think guys felt comfortable out there. They'll adapt and see how they feel.

 Q. Patrick, you missed out on practice today, and any ramifications of the hit from yesterday? Are you going to be ready to go tomorrow? 
 PATRICK KANE: Yeah, I'm going to try tomorrow. I'm going to do my best to treat it as much as I can today, and hopefully I'll feel fine tomorrow. Last night I was just kind of ahead and skate got caught in the ice there, unfortunate play. Clean hit with that. Nothing you can do about it. But at the same time, just try to get myself ready for tomorrow's game, and that's the most important thing.

 Q. We heard from Brian about his experience, but Jonathan and Patrick, just talk about when is the last time you guys played outside? You're still young and the buzz, there's so much buzz it's finally here; how special is it to be a part of this, did it hit you today? 
 JONATHAN TOEWS: Yeah, I think so. People asked us that question. For a lot of us growing up in Canada or the northern states, I guess that's where the experience is as far as playing hockey started for all of us was outdoors. So I think it's definitely special because in a way we're going back to our roots, and, like I said, it's different than playing indoors at the United Center for a home game like every other night. 
 So in a lot of different ways we're really excited for tomorrow. 
 PATRICK KANE: For me, I never really played that much outdoors. But I guess some memories from being back in Buffalo. We played on a downtown rink every now and then when I was a kid, but that was pretty much it as far as me playing outdoors. But it's obviously exciting.
 I think, first off, for the Blackhawks to host this game, it's pretty evident hockey's back in Chicago. And it's great, all the hype that's around the city, and just fun to be a part of.

 Q. Patrick and JT -- Brian, we asked you this in the locker room already, but the other two, if you could just talk about how important this game is just from a game and two point standpoint as much as the whole Winter Classic thing since you haven't beaten Detroit this year. 
 JONATHAN TOEWS: That's what us as players want to make it about. There's a lot of talk about this game since it was announced this summer that it was official. It's been hyped up. Obviously it's a big match-up last year, and we always step up our game when we play against the Wings. And we had a couple of tough losses against them at home and on the road earlier in the season. And I think last night we weren't happy about giving that one away. 
 So I think we can expect that they're going to bring the same game tomorrow that they did last night, and we know we've got to play better than that. So I think everyone can expect both teams are going to be playing at the top of their game tomorrow.
 PATRICK KANE: I think it definitely makes the game a little more exciting. I think both teams are kind of chasing each other, and we're in the rearview mirror for Detroit, and they pretty much handled us pretty good last night. 
 We've got to try to get back at them. They're 3-0 against us this year. So we've got a statement to make. We think we're this great team, and they beat us pretty good last night. 
 So it's a fun game. I think it's great for the NHL. It's a great event. I know last year, myself, watching it, it was fun to watch on TV. So it's definitely going to be even more playing in the game.

 Q. Brian, last year's game, there wasn't a lot of history between the two teams, the conditions made it hard to sort of play a regular NHL game. So essentially it wasn't a very physical game, I think you'd probably agree. But maybe not. But for tomorrow, given the rivalry between the two teams and what happened last night, do you sense more of a regular game coming out of this? 
 BRIAN CAMPBELL: I think you adapt to the conditions. If it's a blizzard out there tomorrow, then no, but you have to do what you can do out there and who adapts first. And even last year when Pittsburgh scored their first goal, I don't think we adapted to the snow as much as we should have. And so I think it will be a hard-hitting game. 
 I think last year there was some big hits in the game if you see some of the highlights and stuff. So I expect maybe even a bit more. I think there's going to be - there's a lot of energy last year. I'm not taking anything away, but seems like the seats are a little closer this year. So that may even help a bit more. Obviously we won't be going up to the sky like they were the last year, the seats. So it's going to be interesting to see. It's going to be kind of like a playoff game, I think. Guys are revved up for it. They want to show what they can do on national television as a team. 
 So for all of us, I know we're ready for it and we're going to get a rest today and go at it tomorrow. 

 Q. Patrick, kind of on the same subject about being physical: Is it a bit of a mischaracterization that this team is more of a finesse team, that you need more muscle?
 PATRICK KANE: Our team? 

 Q. Yes. 
 PATRICK KANE: I don't think we complain too much. We just won 9 in a row. We had a great month, 10-1 and 1. You look at our team, we definitely have some physical players. You got guys like Big Buff up front, Brouwer. A lot of guys you can talk about that lay the body out. 
 And our defense is pretty physical too with guys like Seabrook. Obviously Campbell's not too physical back there (smiling). But other than that, I think we're okay back there. But I think we've got to be happy with our team. 
 I think 10-1-1 in a month, and we have one game where we kind of maybe got manhandled, I don't know really what happened out there, but just one game. I think we've got to let it go. And hopefully from our standpoint we can get them back tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT