NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 12, 2016
Isaiah Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Other than cold, how do you feel about coming to the NBA All-Star Weekend?
ISAIAH THOMAS: It's a blessing.  I'm excited about the weekend.  I'm going to enjoy all the festivities and just soak it all in.
Q. How did you develop your sense for (indiscernible)?
ISAIAH THOMAS: Yeah, I think that's the main thing.  I've been doing it ever since I was a little boy.  It's something I had to figure out at a young age, so it's nothing new to me.  But it's just trying to figure out how to be unpredictable when I go down there and have not just a couple moves, but a few moves that the bigs don't know what I'm going to do.
Q. Do you always try to do non-contact?  Is that part of it?
ISAIAH THOMAS: Most of the time when shot-blocking bigs, I try to get some type of contact to slow them down a little bit.  But for the most part, I just try to take what the defense gives me, whether that's shooting floaters, getting contact or getting to the hoop or just keeping them on their heels and keeping them guessing.
Q. Do guys still get surprised when you square up with them?
ISAIAH THOMAS: They might.  DeAndre Jordan said something the other day.  I told him, I didn't even know it.  I couldn't even see the hoop.  I just threw it up there and I finally got lucky.  But he says, It's unbelievable what you can do.  I feel like I'm going to block all your shots and somehow the ball goes in the hoop.  So it's funny sometimes when I do look back at film to see the stuff that does happen.
Q. He said that in the middle of the game?
ISAIAH THOMAS: Yeah, yeah.  He talks the whole game.  He's always joking around.  I've known DeAndre since high school, so we go back a little bit.
Q. What made you decide to make that a significant part of your game?  Because you know guys usually spend a lot of time on the perimeter.
ISAIAH THOMAS: I don't know.  I guess it's something I was always good at.  It's just something that I never feared anybody, and I felt like if I could go in there with my speed and my quickness, I'll find a way to try to get the ball to the rim.  It's worked to this point.
Q. Has it sunk in yet that you are an All-Star?
ISAIAH THOMAS: Last night it did.  I had a conversation with Allen Iverson.  That was probably the biggest.  Other than talking to Kobe, Allen Iverson is the second biggest thing of my career.
Q. How did you have that conversation?
ISAIAH THOMAS: It was in person.  I was at an event last night and him and his close friend came up to me.  I've met Allen before last summer, but for him, we talked about 10, 15 minutes and he just said how much he loves my game and watches almost all my games.  For somebody to say that, like him, pound-for-pound the best player ever, that was unbelievable.  He wasn't just saying it.  Like he was saying the moves I was doing and me being left-handed and things like that.  So I knew it was really genuine.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT