NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 13, 2015
Isaiah Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  What's your thoughts on the weekend in New York this year so far?  ISAIAH THOMAS: It's crazy.  It's crazy.  New York City is already crazy.  So it's even more crazy.  But it's nice.  When was the last time they had it?  In '98?  It's nice to -- it's the media capital of the world.  It's nice to see everybody out here supporting it.   Q.  In Toronto next year.  What are your feelings on the city of Toronto hosting it?  ISAIAH THOMAS: They need it.  It's going to help the game of basketball.  You see the fans in Toronto, they're one of the best fanbases in the world.  So it's definitely going to help.   Q.  How is your life in Phoenix with the Suns?  How is your life?  ISAIAH THOMAS: My life is great.  I have no complaints.  I'm blessed to be able to play the game of basketball.  And I mean to call basketball my job.  I wake up each and every morning with a smile on my face.   Q.  The goal this season for the Suns?  ISAIAH THOMAS: The playoffs.  Got to get to the playoffs.  Whatever place.  Whatever place.  We're in the Western Conference, so it really doesn't matter.  As long as you make it.   Q.  What was your team's mindset when you broke for the All-Star break?  ISAIAH THOMAS: I think we needed a break from each other.  It wasn't a bad thing.  It's a long season.  You're up under each other's sleeves each and every day.  Sometimes you just need that break for a few days.  We just said once we get this break and come back, we're going to come back with our mind right and just go all out for these last I think 29, 30 games and try to make that push for the playoffs.   Q.  What do you think about the longer break format?  ISAIAH THOMAS: It's great.  Especially for the guys that are in the events and make the All-Star team.  It's a lot of work.  It's a blessing to be able to be an All-Star.  But it's also a lot of work.  And you need your downtime and relax time.  I think it's great for the game of basketball.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT