ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS LADIES SCOTTISH OPEN
July 29, 2018
Manon Molle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How do you feel about the final day performance?  
MANON MOLLÉ: I feel good, actually.  I just wanted to play well and have a good last round but I knew it was going to be difficult with that weather, but I thought the wind would have blown a bit more.  It was really tough today.  I only had two bogeys and one birdie, and I missed a lot of birdie chances.   
But overall, I felt great on the first tee and I know I was playing with Ryan and Bronte, so I had a really good group today.  I was a bit stressed out.   
 Q.  Did you know the significance, that you might have a chance to qualify for the Women's British Open?  
MANON MOLLÉ: I just figured it out.   
 Q.  After the round?  
MANON MOLLÉ: Yeah, because I saw that piece of paper on the recording and I'm just waiting now.  So hopefully I'll get in.  That will be really helpful because I have a tee time tomorrow at 6.45.  So if I don't have to do that, I will be really, really happy.   
 Q.  You didn't know until you got --  
MANON MOLLÉ: I knew three could get into the British, but I didn't think I could get into those three.   
 Q.  If you don't get into the top three, do you think playing here in The Scottish Open in these conditions will stand you in good stead for playing next week potentially?  
MANON MOLLÉ: I think so.  My game was pretty steady the whole week.  My putting, I had some problems with my putting mostly but my long game, even my chipping, was really good, and I really like Scotland and I really like to play different ways, so chip, it like put it from 50 yards ahead, the green.  So I mean, I just love it here.   
I feel like if the British conditions are the same and if the course look the same, I will be good with it, too.   
 Q.  So you think this was good preparation for a major?  
MANON MOLLÉ: Oh, yeah, totally and that will be good to do my first major.  So good preparation about the course and mentally, I've got to be even stronger than I've been this week, yeah.   
 Q.  Have you ever played at Royal Lytham before?  
MANON MOLLÉ: No, never.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT