THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 18, 1999
Boris Becker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Good to be out there playing? 
 
BORIS BECKER:  I feel very good.  I was praying this afternoon that I'm able to go out on the court; nothing is going to happen, no virus.  I'm very glad to be able to finish the match on the court, and even better to have won the first round. 
 

Q.  What do you feel about your form?  Is it difficult to evaluate because you played so rarely?
 
BORIS BECKER:  Of course, it's very difficult.  I've been practicing quite good, but a match is obviously very different than a practice.  It's hard to tell because I've been playing so little.  I'm surprised actually to be able to win today.  Pozzi plays every week; he's used to tough matches.  But I was able to play well on the big points, which is rare when you play so little.  But I was able to pull it off at 4-All in the third set.  That was the key. 
 

Q.  Exciting for you to win?
 
BORIS BECKER:  Yeah.  First it's exciting to be on the court, and to top it all off, to have a win in the first round, yeah.  
 

Q.  What's your motivation now to be out there still?
 
BORIS BECKER:  Well, as you may have heard, I'm going to retire this summer.  Until then, I want to give it a good show.  I want to prepare myself for my last Grand Slam.  I think that's enough reason for me to work again hard and to prepare myself like a professional, to give it a good show. 
 

Q.  What changed your mind about the Wimbledon thing?  You said a couple years ago that that was it, not play any more Grand Slams. 
 
BORIS BECKER:  I just felt that it's going to be my last couple of months.  I felt like I had one more Wimbledon in me to be able to finish my career where it really started for me.  Even though I (inaudible) 99 percent when I retired two years ago, I kept the last open just in case I do what I'm planning to do this year.  Hopefully I'll be able to walk out there again this summer and play good tennis.  
 

Q.  How do you rate your game now compared to the way it used to be at its best?
 
BORIS BECKER:  I can't.  I can't compare it.  Obviously, I'm a few notches down.  You know, it's still not easy to play me.  On a good day, I'm able to play good tennis.  Obviously, the more matches I have, the more dangerous I become.  Hopefully I can have another good match in a couple of days.  
 

Q.  At what stage did you decide you wanted to have one last crack at Wimbledon?
 
BORIS BECKER:  You know, I was thinking over Christmastime.  I had a couple of weeks, almost two months off.  What I'm going to do this year?  Whether I prepare myself for Davis Cup, which was for me last year the reason to continue.  But then again, Davis Cup could be long.  We have a strong team.  Obviously, we have a first tough round.  Kiefer and Haas are a good team.  Chances are we'll be in the semifinal.  Then it's October.  It's something I didn't want to do really.  I have decided to stop this summer also because my wife is expecting my second baby.  I thought that was a good moment for me to call it all off. 
 

Q.  You haven't had a real good time at the Lipton over the years as far as getting far in the tournament.  Do you feel like you have one good Lipton in you, maybe owe something to yourself?
 
BORIS BECKER:  I think I owe something to the tournament.  They've been having a hard time with me the last couple of years.  It was very hard to believe that I was actually here on-site preparing, the last minute something happened.  I was really trying hard to give it one more shot this year.  I'm very, very happy to be able to pull it off and actually win the first round.  I think I paid back tonight.  
 

Q.  Is it a special feeling for you to play here this year first time after '94, because meanwhile you have a home here? 
 
BORIS BECKER:  In Miami for the last four, five years has been a very special place for me.  I always wanted to play and to do well here.  I have a second home here, not far away from the tournament site.  I've known many people here.  I have many, many friends.  They all came out and watched, as everybody heard.  It was very important for me to go out tonight and to play well.  
 

Q.  Could you ever imagine living here?  Once you said in an interview that when your son has to go to school, you have to make a decision.  I hope it's not too personal. 
 
BORIS BECKER:  A little.  It is too personal. 
 

Q.  How many months a year do you spend here?
 
BORIS BECKER:  I'd say about three months. 
 

Q.  Your wife is expecting when?
 
BORIS BECKER:  At the end of August.  That's been the main reason why I wanted to quit this summer and play one more time.  
 

Q.  You say you've been practicing very hard.  How much time do you spend on the practice court compared to when you were No.  1?
 
BORIS BECKER:  Not as much because obviously it takes weeks and weeks of practice to be able to play four or five hard hours.  I'm trying to get there.  I'm trying to be very consistent on the practice court, have my couple hours every day, play a couple sets each day.  As the weeks go by, hopefully with a few more tournaments, I'll be able to get stronger and stronger.  Hopefully in three months, I'll be able to play great tennis. 
 

Q.  Are you going to play the clay court season as well?
 
BORIS BECKER:  No.  I will stay more on the hard courts actually.  I will play Hong  Kong and Tokyo just to have now a couple weeks in a row. 
 

Q.  Then go on the grass?
 
BORIS BECKER:  No.  I play one or two clay events. 
 

Q.  Then the grass will be Halle?
 
BORIS BECKER:  I will play Queen's this year.  I'll do it the old-fashioned way (laughter).  
 

Q.  Do you intend to play the French Open?
 
BORIS BECKER:  No.  
 

Q.  That would be a bit of a sentimental journey as well, Queen's, won't it?
 
BORIS BECKER: Yes.  
 

Q.  Which claycourt event will you play?  Maybe Hamburg?
 
BORIS BECKER:  No.  I will play Munich, Nations Cup and maybe Rome if it goes well.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT