EUROCARD OPEN
October 29, 1998
Boris Becker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Give us a summary of how you feel you are playing; where you feel you are at the
moment with your game? 
 
 BORIS BECKER: Well, I must be satisfied with the three matches. I haven't played in
quite a while. Coming into one of the strongest fields ever for the end of the tournament,
I couldn't expect too much. But the way I have been playing the last three matches gives
me great satisfaction. Even today, I have played well. I wasn't the one where I had luck
on his side, but, you know, overall, even today, I played very well. 
 
Q. Are you encouraged, Boris, to play more frequently by playing so well here this
week?
 
 BORIS BECKER: Well, I am trying. I am going to play next week in Bercy and then in
Stockholm. Hopefully, each week I will play even better and, yes, I didn't think I was
able to play that strongly and so I am very much encouraged by the fact of my performance
this week. 
 
Q. Have you made any commitment for next year?
 
 BORIS BECKER: I am in the process of doing it. I haven't decided yet 100% where it is
going to be. 
 
Q. They won't include Grand Slam events?
 
 BORIS BECKER: No. 
 
Q. The fight for the first spot by the end of the year between Sampras and Rafter and
Rios, in your opinion, who deserves to be No. 1?
 
 BORIS BECKER: Deserves ... It is not for me to judge who deserves to be No. 1. The one
who makes it at the end, earns it and must deserve it. Obviously, ideally, you want the
guy who won the more Slams to be No. 1 at the end of the year, but since Pete has won,
Marcelo has not; Pat has won, it is not a whole lot of difference. I think it is exciting
for tennis that you have three still in competition. The rest is very much open. Pete is
in good form again, but obviously Marcelo is the leader and he is in the tournament and he
has got all the cards on his side right now. 
 
Q. You've chosen to play less tennis on your own free will. Do you miss when you come
back here in the big events like this, do you miss the excitement and the involvement?
 
 BORIS BECKER: Oh, yes, it was a big part of my life and I enjoyed very much to come
back and be part of such a tournament and that is the part I definitely miss by not
playing that much anymore, sure. 
 
Q. What do you feel like during the Grand Slams? I know you were at Wimbledon this year
doing TV, do you miss it when you are actually at a Slam?
 
 BORIS BECKER: Wimbledon was very difficult. Obviously I miss it that much I was
courtside at the semifinal when Goran played Richard and even the final I saw in the Royal
Box and yes, I had an urge of going on the court and doing it myself instead of talking
about it. But, well, I have done it a long time in a row, so that was a decision I took; I
am very glad about it. But if it wouldn't hurt, it never meant a whole lot anyway, so I
was kind of glad the fire was still there and -- but I have done it 14 years in a row and
it is time to do something else. 
 
Q. Do you think that men's tennis is in a healthy state at the moment worldwide?
 
 BORIS BECKER: Well, I don't think it is in such a bad state as everybody is trying to
put it. Yes, there has to be some change in the format. Yes, we have too many tournaments
on television each week. But I don't think it is a problem with the personalities and the
lack of young exciting players coming up. I think, you know, there is a general desire of
talking about the good old days that they weren't all that good after all. It is always
easier to talk about the past than it is about the present. I think the game is exciting
and just the fact that three players are playing for the No. 1 spot shows that it is a
very, very tight race and, you know, you have Australia who is a big tennis boom right
now. Spain is very much a tennis country. Not -- yes, it is no more Germany, it's a fact
tennis was built very much in Germany. We don't have the Top-10 players anymore, you know,
but other countries have it and they deserve credit for it and they deserve more
tournaments for it. 
 
Q. Considering the tough competition in today's game, are you also impressed on how
Agassi made it back?
 
 BORIS BECKER: I always said that if he puts it down and gets dirty a little bit, he is
one of the best of all time. He put his commitment back into the game and, yes, it is a
bit of a miracle last year he was ranked 140; now he is in the Top 5. It is one of
greatest comebacks, I think, tennis has ever seen. I am not surprised by it. He is such a
talented guy that it was just a question of time when he is going to be back. 
 
Q. You say you still get a buzz from competing in big tournaments like this. Looking
the way McEnroe and Borg played on the senior Tour, do you think that is something that
might interest new the future or when you quit the ATP Tour?
 
 BORIS BECKER: You should never say never, but I strongly doubt that I will be back for
the 35s. First of all, I have a couple years left under 35, therefore I prefer to play
with the young boys instead of the older boys. Plus I think when the time comes I am 35,
the last of the things I want to do is keep on travelling as a tennis player to different
parts of the world. But other players choose to do that, that is all right as well. I have
been a long time a professional. I think once I have quit the men's Tour, it is going to
be it. 
 
Q. Do you think Germany will ever produce another Boris Becker?
 
 BORIS BECKER: I hope so and I am convinced that we have a young group of players who
are going to make their mark, but we have to give them time a little bit. Obviously the
shadow of Michael and myself is quite large; it is not easy to produce each five years a
new No. 1, or a Grand Slam winner. But talking about Kiefer and Haas, they have the
talent. They have the potential. Hopefully they have the desire to go all the way. The
other juniors we have, they are playing as well good tennis. If we produce another Grand
Slam winner, I hope so. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT