EUROCARD OPEN
October 27, 1998
Boris Becker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How did you enjoy this match?

BORIS BECKER: Very much. I was very glad to be back on the tennis court and with
feeling pretty healthy. I have played one tennis match in three months. I originally was
going to play more indoor tournaments, but I broke my ankle about eight weeks ago,
therefore, I tried in Basel, but I felt like I wasn't ready yet and I needed another
couple of weeks. So I am glad to be back on the court. I was able to pull it off in two
sets. I am very pleased with that.

Q. You didn't play that many tournaments this year? So far what has been the most
enjoyable tournament you have played this year?

BORIS BECKER: I enjoyed very much to play on the clay. It gave me great satisfaction to
be able to play good with the best players in the world. Even beat some of them like
Haarhuis in Gstaad, for example. Unfortunately, I couldn't have played more indoors
because I feel like if I am back into practice I have a chance to do well. But I have won
first round now. I have another match with Moya tomorrow. I am looking forward to it.

Q. What about next week, did you apply for a wildcard in Paris?

BORIS BECKER: Yes.

Q. Are they giving it?

BORIS BECKER: I asked them already a long time ago because I wanted to play absolutely
here in Bercy and I talked to Patrice and to Christian and they promised me one.

Q. You were surprised to find the rhythm of your serve at more crucial moments today.
That was very important. You served well on the big points.

BORIS BECKER: That is right. He served well, too. I had him a couple of times Love-40.
And he started to serve his best when he was down Love-40, apparently, and just took it
the last game when I needed the matchpoints, he came up with big serves every time, so he
didn't give me any opportunity to really play the point.

Q. Although the timing was obviously a little rusty at times because you hardly played,
you looked as if you were really enjoying yourself and very enthusiastic about everything?

BORIS BECKER: Yes, I was. It is something I love doing. And I am very glad to be able
to still come back and play decent tennis. It gives me great satisfaction to be able to do
what I really love. Hopefully I can do it a few more times.

Q. What are your goals, just to enjoy tennis or do you want to improve your ranking or
having fun?

BORIS BECKER: If I would try to improve my ranking it would be a very foolish thing to
do by playing 10 tournaments a year. I am actually surprised to be ranked where I am. But,
no, it gives me pleasure to be able to come out here and play with the best players and
practice the last couple of days, it is -- obviously, sooner or later I am not going to do
that anymore. So as long as I am still around, I enjoy it more than before probably.

Q. Did you have opportunity to talk to Pete Sampras since winning Vienna?

BORIS BECKER: We had a little chat.

Q. What did he say to you?

BORIS BECKER: We are pretty good friends, so, hopefully one of these days when I need
his help I am sure he is able to give me some.

Q. You said just now sooner or later you will not be able to do this. Is it going to be
later rather than sooner?

BORIS BECKER: I don't know, to tell you the truth. I am planning now to play next week
and to play in Stockholm. Obviously I wanted to play more in the fall and with my injury
it took away a lot from what I have gained this summer. It was very difficult to come back
and actually play again because the muscles didn't work anywhere, the ankle hurt. So it
really depends how healthy I am. If I stay healthy then I can play a couple of more
tournaments. If I break my ankle, or if I break a muscle, then it is going to be very
tough to come back.

Q. Speaking of that spell, when you were out, did you maybe think that is it, the end?

BORIS BECKER: Sure. Sure. Yeah. I mean, it really depended how quickly it healed. If I
would not have gotten ready to play now, I don't think I was going to -- I was going to be
back next year. It is tough enough resting for three months. I couldn't cope with it for
six months, it would be too long.

Q. You tried to reform the ATP to have a better calendar for the players. Would you try
to do it again to have a better schedule for the top players? Impossible to change
something in tennis?

BORIS BECKER: I am really here as a tennis player and I want to stick to Schalken and
maybe Carlos Moya and not about anything else, whatever is written about or whatever the
rumor was. A lot of people talk many, many things; not everything is true. I am not going
to put more fire into it. I am just thinking about Carlos Moya right now and hopefully I
will do well tomorrow.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT