REPUBLIC NATIONAL MONTE CARLO OPEN
April 24, 1998
Boris Becker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Boris, what happened in the third set?  Did you feel a little bit tired or what? 
 
BORIS BECKER:  Well, my legs are a little bit slow.  My whole body felt a little bit heavier than the first two sets.  You know, I wish I would have been five years younger out there, then he would have had even a harder time. 
 

Q.  Otherwise, in the first set, do you think you played great tennis?
 
BORIS BECKER:  Even the second set, too.  I played up to my potential.  I mean, I played very risky because I couldn't go into long rallies with him.  He's better than that.  But, obviously, when you play like that on clay, you have to be very confident and go for your shots all the time.  The first and second serve, not many people are able to do that.  I had a good rhythm.  I felt good out there.  You  know, I was playing two sets like I haven't played in a while on clay. 
 

Q.  Minor point, but when you dived for the ball, first point of the breaker, did you know the ball came off the ground before it went or the net?
 
BORIS BECKER:  I had no clue where the ball was anymore.  I was face down on the earth.  I couldn't care less at that moment where that ball went.  I was just happy not to have hurt myself or gotten injured.  But when the umpire said it was my point, I said nice surprise (laughter). 
 

Q.  What do you take out of a week like this, Boris? What does it tell you about what you can do for the next few weeks and months?
 
BORIS BECKER:  Well, it obviously gives me the belief that if I'm healthy, if I put a few hours of practice in, I'm still able to play with the best in the world, even on my least favorite surface.  That gives me a lot of self-confidence and just belief that, you know, I'm doing the right thing at the moment, you know, I'm not making a fool out of myself, I'm giving everybody a good run for their money.  On top of it, I have a great time.  I enjoy myself very much.  I'm very pleased with my performance this week. 
 

Q.  Barbara looked a bit shocked when you said you  might be coming back next year.
 
BORIS BECKER:  I said maybe (laughter). 
 

Q.  But when you are playing like this, do you take some pleasure on the court?  It's a very nice feeling?
 
BORIS BECKER:  Those two hours I had, I've been -- you know, that's the reason why I'm in it.  I live for that.  I've been doing it for 20 years.  As long as I'm able to do it like that, I have a great time, you know.  That's what for me tennis is all about, you know, trying your heart out, playing against a very small player with a very big heart.  That's what, for me, tennis is all about.  Two different contrasts of styles, one trying to chase the other.  I have a great time doing it. 
 

Q.  You played two hours here.  Would you like to play four hours at Roland Garros this year?
 
BORIS BECKER:  I said two hours today, not four. 
 

Q.  You would never reconsider what you said, if you're playing as well as you are playing now, playing one of the Slams again?
 
BORIS BECKER:  Last summer, I said it not because I wasn't good enough anymore.  There's a big difference with other players maybe.  I said it when I was No. 10 in the world.  I cannot travel 45 weeks of the year anymore for  tennis.  I have a family.  I'm in it already a long time.  I don't have the desire and hunger to do it like I used to.  But now and then again when the opportunity arises, when I'm healthy, when I put the hours of practice in, I'm gladly playing a tournament.  That's what I said last summer, and I stuck with it.  If I'm able to play like that for this week, it can go on for many more tournaments. 
 

Q.  But you still aren't really answering me.  I don't want to push, but does that mean you are excluding playing a Slam or not excluding playing a Slam?
 
BORIS BECKER:  Until the first Monday comes, I will always say 99 percent, then you see whether it's a hundred percent and whether I'll be on the court. 
 

Q.  But are you looking forward to playing some other good matches on clay this year and beat some players like Berasategui maybe?
 
BORIS BECKER:  I'd rather play other players on clay maybe (laughter).  He's a very difficult one to play against, and he makes work very extremely hard.  I'd rather play a serve and volleyer, I think, at the next tournament (laughter).  I play in Hamburg.  I hope I can put on the same kind of performance and show as I've done here. 
 

Q.  Boris, you know very well Nicolas Kiefer.  Is it  strange that you are here struggling for two hours, and he didn't play against Ulihrach in this tournament?
 
BORIS BECKER:  I haven't seen a match.  I cannot comment on other players, other things.  I haven't seen.  That's the way I play.  I bleed sometimes on the court; I'm trying everything.  But everybody has a different style.  I haven't seen his match against Ulihrach. 
 

Q.  May I ask you if you are going to play in Rome in Foro Italico?
 
BORIS BECKER:  Maybe.  I either play Rome or Dusseldorf.  It's going to be decided in the next few days. 
 

Q.  You said you would not like to play Alberto Berasategui again on clay.  How about the Swedes?
 
BORIS BECKER:  After the first set, he was shaky a little bit.  I felt if I had a chance, if my legs were just a little bit younger, if I would have a bit more chump in them, I think I would have been able to have taken him today.  But once he regrouped, he started to be very confident and play with heavy topspin.  You know, not many players are able to play like that for the whole match.  I'll play whoever wants to play me.  I don't have a choice. 
 

Q.  My question is, you probably won't play on clay in Davis Cup?
 
BORIS BECKER:  We won't play on clay.  We'll play  on hard. 
 

Q.  In Hamburg?
 
BORIS BECKER:  Hard surface. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT