REPUBLIC NATIONAL MONTE CARLO OPEN
April 20, 1998
Boris Becker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Boris, that was quite a turnaround, set down and 3-All.  Didn't seem to be going your way.  Ten out of the next 11 games.  What happened, as far as you're concerned?

BORIS BECKER:  I feel I had another chance in the first set as well.  I just didn't convert any of them.  He's not an easy player to play against because he doesn't give you any rhythm.  When you have opportunities that arise, you have to take them.  Especially at the beginning of the first set, I had lots of breakpoints, games where I could have gone ahead.  I just somehow found a way to miss the ball.  You know, it was getting on my nerves a little bit.  I felt like I had a very good chance.  I kept the match close.  Then on my first opportunity, luckily, the second set, I took advantage of it.  All of a sudden, the momentum changed where I started to make important points and he started to lose timing on his serve.  Then it became an easy match all of a sudden. 


Q.  Is this the last round of honor for you?  Do you have the intention to keep on until the French Open, to keep on playing other tournaments?

BORIS BECKER:  I have the intention to play other tournaments, not the French Open, though.  I don't know, I mean, I've scheduled myself a little bit around Davis Cup, like I did last summer.  My first priority was to be in shape for Davis Cup.  Our next will be in July.  That's why I asked to have a wildcard here so I could play a little bit in the meantime, you know, give myself a chance.  But, you know, I don't plan further than that.


Q.  Boris, you have been three times in the final here, three times in the semifinal of the French, never considered a clay court player.  With age, are you becoming a clay court player, more passion?

BORIS BECKER:  I don't know.  I mean, I'm here to enjoy myself and to give a good performance.  The surface is not important anymore.  You know, it wasn't important before.  I mean, I have good results on clay as well.  But if you compare my results on the other surfaces, clay is my least best, obviously.  But at this stage, I'm not thinking about the tournament victory; I'm just happy to be alive here in the first round, and hopefully, you know, give my next opponent a good match. 


Q.  Boris, you played Greg twice, I think '96, beat him both times.  Would you agree that he's a different player, far better player, as his ranking shows?

BORIS BECKER:  And I'm a different player, too (laughter).  That's more of a problem, I guess.  But already then I could see that he had all the potential to become where he is right now.  I remember having beaten him in five sets in Melbourne.  Yes, you know, with a serve like that, and a serve and volley game all together, you know, he is one of the best serve and volley players around.  Hopefully, he gives me a chance on his serve to return a few.  I hope I'm not giving him too many chances on my serve.  Hopefully, we have an entertaining match.


Q.  Boris, do you think you could change idea about Wimbledon this year?  Do you think this tournament could be your last tournament in Monte-Carlo?

BORIS BECKER:  The first question, I left it open last time.  I went as chances 99 percent I would not play. I had a one percent chance.  That's the same right now.  For Monte-Carlo, I don't know.  You know, I'm not announcing here that it's my last season.  I don't know.  It depends on a few circumstances.  I'm planning, let's say, three or four months ahead, then we'll see what happens afterwards. 


Q.  Because this is clay, is Rusedski a less threatening opponent than he might be elsewhere?

BORIS BECKER:  I guess so.  Anything else, he reached finals in one tournament.  So he has the same problem I used to have (laughter).  His biggest weapon is his serve.  The clay court sort of slows everything down.  That gives me a chance.


Q.  When you look at the schedule, how much of it is dependent on winning matches like you won today?

BORIS BECKER:  On what?


Q.  On actually beating opponents.  I'm thinking, will you play more if you win more?

BORIS BECKER:  I'm playing more this week because I've won the first round.


Q.  I know.

BORIS BECKER:  But you have a point.  I'm not going to make a fool out of myself.  I'm not going to embarrass myself on the court losing 6-2, 6-1.  Obviously it depends on that.  I'm practicing as hard as I can at the moment.  I'm trying to give a good performance, and I'm trying to enjoy myself.  Obviously, sometimes I want to win, as well. That's the nature of the game.  I guess it depends on that, as well. 


Q.  It seemed halfway through the match you were having a good time, then you were giving yourself a stern talking to.  I don't know if it was a coincidence, but suddenly you seemed to click into gear.

BORIS BECKER:  Yeah.  That's part of my nature, that I'm getting quite vocal sometimes on the tennis court, talking to myself and to others.  You know, it helps sometimes.  It helped today.


Q.  Boris, what is most important to you now?  What are you going to do after tennis?  Have you thought about it, what you're going to do afterwards?

BORIS BECKER:  I'm in the process right now.  I mean, I'm not seeing myself as a tennis player anymore.  I'm a tennis coach.  After is right now already.  I mean, I'm involved with the Federation, plus I have a number of other business interests which I follow.  I'm not playing.  It's my sixth tournament since Wimbledon of last year, so you can imagine that I'm not a full-time professional anymore.


Q.  Boris, you mentioned the next round of the Davis Cup.  Does that mean there's a possibility of doubles at Wimbledon being more than a one percent chance?

BORIS BECKER:  You know, what do you want me to say?  Two percent?  That's a philosophy of mine to never say 'never' because you never know what life brings you.  That's why I said last summer it's a 99 percent chance. That's what I'm saying now.  If you like it, I can tell you two percent (laughter).


Q.  But it's not something that you seriously consider as a definite yet anyway?

BORIS BECKER:  No, at this stage, no.


Q.  What do you think about Marcelo Rios?

BORIS BECKER:  I think he's the most talented player right now, young player right now.  I'm not surprised he became No. 1 because he can really play tennis.  Sooner or later, he's going to win a Grand Slam as well.  I believe that if his head sticks with it, he's going to be there for a long time.  I'm not saying No. 1, but I'm saying in the area between 1 and 5.  I had an experience with him last year a few times.  He's extremely gifted.  He really knows how to play tennis.


Q.  The final here in 1995 you played Thomas Muster, it was a memorable match.  What are your memories?

BORIS BECKER:  Mostly bad memories, because I blew it.  I had two match points.  I had 2 sets to Love.  It was my golden opportunity to win a very prestigious clay court tournament.  You know, Thomas Muster came back from the grave  and beat me 6-Love in the fifth set (laughter).


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT