COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 8, 1997
Boris Becker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Boris, how close to your best were you in that match? 
 
 BORIS BECKER: Considering the circumstances, playing against the best server in the
game on a pretty quick court, that was as good as I could play today. 
 
Q. Could you possibly expect to lose only 15 points on 15 games of serve, even if you
made eight double-faults, which means he made only seven points?
 
 BORIS BECKER: I mean, that's never to be expected. You go in against Goran expecting
the toughest match possible. Really from the first couple games on, I started to play
excellent. I kept that level throughout the whole match. He had ups and downs. Whenever he
had a downfall, I took the opportunity when they arised. On my behalf, you know, I played
very consistent and very solid throughout the whole match. I didn't have any lapses of
concentration or lapses of playing. You know, I kept my composure the whole time. That's
why it seemed so easy. 
 
Q. Boris, have you ever thought how strange it is that you and Steffi, born within,
what, ten kilometers of one another, should both one day become No. 1? Of course, you used
to practice together when you were juniors. Could you reflect on those early days and tell
us when you knew the moment arose that you realized you could be a great player?
 
 BORIS BECKER: The reason why I had to practice with her was because I was the weakest
from the boys and she was the strongest from the girls. That's why our trainer then had
that idea, as a penalty sort of that I had to play with the best girl. When you're so
little, a little boy, it's -- it means he's putting you down in a way. I mean, that's how
we both started. We had the same coach. It was a very successful center, because even Anke
Huber was coming from that coach, that tennis center. Yeah, many people have described it
already. But, it's very strange. The reason to explain why from that little neighborhood,
maybe it's got to be something in the air or something in the food we had when we were
younger that two of the best players ever came from very close by. 
 
Q. Everybody is congratulating you, and I am to.
 
 BORIS BECKER: Grazie. 
 
Q. Prego. I don't want to sound like the bad boy, but I remember a few years ago you
said this cup had some ridiculous money, too much, almost absurd. What has changed now in
your approach to this cup?
 
 BORIS BECKER: I've gotten richer and the money doesn't seem so obscene anymore
(laughter). Seriously, in the first two years, I didn't play what was because of a
political reason. I was one of the founders of the ATP Tour, including Mats Wilander,
Andre Agassi and a few more. When that tournament first came up, it was a muscle game from
the ITF to show that their Tour is better or stronger or that they're more powerful
altogether. That's why this tournament came. As one of the founders of the new ATP Tour, I
felt obliged to stick with what I said then, that I'm going to support the ATP Tour, and
I'm going to deny, because at those times I thought that the new Tour is going to be the
best thing that could ever happen to tennis. Seven years later, we know that the current
ATP Tour system has its faults, and there are a few things we have to improve. That's why
I think all of the players who didn't support it then are much more supportive of the ITF.
First of all, because it has the major tournaments, the Grand Slams, under the system.
Plus, you know, the players have to sometimes pay the price that the ATP and the ITF don't
get along as they should. We players are in between. It's our profession. That's how we
earn our living. So, we have to find the best ways in both systems for us. That's why I'm
playing here, because I realize that this tournament is very important for tennis, for
Germany, and seven years ago I was living in Monte-Carlo, I had no relationship to Dr.
Axel Meyer-Wolden. I'm living in Munich now and he's my lawyer. One of the reasons why I'm
as well here. Starting out, it was a political issue for my behalf. The money - I've made
a lot of money seven years ago, so to all bring it down to a simple statement that the
money was obscene, could not be really true. Seven years ago I was already making
millions. 
 
Q. Boris, next year the Compaq Grand Slam is in September. The same thing with two or
three ATP tournaments. Do you want to play here or in ATP tournaments, in this month of
September?
 
 BORIS BECKER: First of all, for this tournament, you have to qualify. You know, you
have to play well. 
 
Q. I think you will.
 
 BORIS BECKER: I hope so. I've done the last couple of years. If I have qualified, when
I've qualified, I will play this tournament, of course. 
 
Q. Boris, we know what you've said about the way you're playing at the moment. Do you
think you can play even better, and will you have to step up to another level for the
Australian Open, or is this enough, do you think, to win the Australian Open?
 
 BORIS BECKER: You know, as the times have shown, you have to improve each year, almost
each month, because the competition is learning, players are going to read my game and I
have to find new ways to surprise them. That's the case in the last few tournaments I've
played. That's the case with the new year. Australian Open is a new ball game. I'm going
to be there as the defending champion. Everybody is going to hunt me. I've managed before,
you know, to step up when the pressure was the most. Hopefully I can do it again. 
 
Q. Boris, I came from the small country, Croatia, Goran's country.
 
 BORIS BECKER: Nice country, I've been to. 
 
Q. I congratulate you for a splendid victory.
 
 BORIS BECKER: Thank you. 
 
Q. You mentioned something before that he is one of the best ever server till now. Will
you explain with some sentences this opinion?
 
 BORIS BECKER: For me he's the best server ever. We have to look in the record books, if
ever, anybody served as many aces as he's done this year. I mean, he served yesterday over
40 aces. I don't remember, maybe one name comes to mind, John Feaver, at Wimbledon. Goran
is doing it day in, day out, first and second serve. Today we guess his legs were not as
fresh as mine. He had a tough five-setter yesterday. If you look over the year, against
anybody, Pete, Chang, myself, when he has a good day, you cannot break him. You have to
get lucky in a tiebreaker or that he's going to get a bad call on one of his serves to be
able to break him. Unfortunately it's mainly because of him that people started to talk
about the game was too fast. You know, he's just such an amazing talent that he's able to
serve like that. The majority of the players don't have that kind of serve. You know,
whenever he comes far in a tournament, the question comes back, the game of tennis is only
serve these days anymore. Last week in Hannover, he was not in the final. We've seen Pete
and Boris play there. There was never talk of the game is too fast. Still you had two good
servers in that game. Talking about him, it's a talent he has. You know, it's not easy to
serve that well. He's able to do it now for many years. 
 
Q. Boris, middle of the year you weren't able to play because of the injury. As a
result, it affected your computer ranking. If you were to rank yourself now, where would
you put yourself?
 
 BORIS BECKER: You know, I think we have a very good No. 1, and I would not put me above
that, because he's proven himself for the last four years that he's there for good. I'm
not far behind. For the few tournaments I've played, I've managed to beat him a few times.
I've beaten the likes of Chang, Kafelnikov, Ivanisevic, all the ones who were ahead of me.
I think whoever, you know, is going to be ranked No. 2 or 3 is not that important after
all, you know. I think it matters who is No. 1, and that's Pete Sampras. The rest doesn't
really matter. 
 
Q. You said that you have almost sort of obliged mandatory holiday. How can you
preserve the shape you're in right now?
 
 BORIS BECKER: It's not going to be easy because it's three weeks until the next
tournament. But it has been some very straining weeks and months. After all, the pressure
was enormous, especially in September, the first indoor tournaments in October. The
question as to whether I was going to find my shape and be able to be in the Championships
and be able to play with the best of the world. I feel it's good I'm going to have a break
now in order to recover, because that is what the body is asking for. And, I have strained
myself a lot over the weeks. Nevertheless, it is, of course, a very good feeling to start
the Christmas season knowing that you are at your highest point, pinnacle, you know what
you can do that makes the holiday easier. It should be the same in football. If you know
that you are the first for the winter break, it's better than knowing you are the second.
I feel I'm the first for the first half of the year, the autumn season, this is alluding
to the German soccer league, of course. I'm looking forward and hope I can get back to
this level as soon as possible. 
 
Q. Boris, a lot has been said about a straining, exhausting, long season. Players are
said to be burnt out. What does this mean for your schedule next year?
 
 BORIS BECKER: Well, I think that the best players have a different Tour calendar
compared to the average Tour player. I think that we are specializing on the major events
which means that I am not going to take a major break until the Australian Open. I want to
keep my physical fitness. My technique, I don't want to lose. I think it's the same with
all the top players, those who will fight for the crown. Now, only we have to take our
breaks, maybe a day in March or in months where there are no Grand Slam tournaments, no
absolute top events. This is why this long season, I mean, for us, November is a very
important month, ATP World Championship for seven years now, and the Grand Slam Cup
following immediately after. These are top events for us. We would tailor our calendar
accordingly and not take our break now, but, when we can feel -- without losing too many
points or when tournaments are a bit less important. This is how every player has got to
tailor-make his calendar. Thomas Muster is different. He plays from the beginning of April
till the beginning of September. He has to win his points every week. Of course, during
the six months, somebody like him would have to play. Boris Becker would have a different
calendar and Michael Chang as well. 
 
Q. Well, right, Boris, but isn't it the moment to wind up a little bit, maybe sort of
balance the year, big victory?
 
 BORIS BECKER: Yes. You forgot one thing, there was a long illness before I was injured.
Three months I couldn't play. I had a strong, very severe infection. I was suffering from
fever every day. I lost kilos and kilos. I couldn't practice. I started at April at square
one. You didn't write a lot about it, but I have been only able to play 10 or 11
tournaments 100 percent fit and I won five. I wouldn't want to start dreaming, what if I
had the chance to play more tournaments fit, healthy, Wimbledon, US Open, Paris. Whenever
I was fit - and this not only goes for indoors, Melbourne is played outdoors, Queen's -
whenever I was fit, I played some major tennis. My main objective is to be fit more
frequently next year. 
 
Q. You mentioned that the pressure after your injury was tremendous, enormous. Are you
referring more to the external pressure? What about now for next year? Pressure is built
up by these types of successes.
 
 BORIS BECKER: I was talking about my career. I was most severely injured for three
months. I couldn't hold a racquet. You start thinking about, "Will I ever be able to
play tennis again well?" Or was it: These are thoughts and fears that you suffer
from? This is why the pressure was as it never was before in my career. I'm not too bad
every time I know I'm physically fit, in good shape. One day I'm going to come back and
get back to a top level. This, I know from experience. This is why this pressure is
relatively insignificant compared to physical problems, which is part of our business,
isn't it? We have to show top performances every week. After so many years, I think it's
fair to say that I do handle this pressure not too badly, don't I? Whenever I'm fit and
I've got training week possibilities, my shape would normally not leave me. What really
matters for an athlete is that the body comes along. I hope with this respect a bit more
good luck next year. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT