COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 7, 1997
Boris Becker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Boris, what does Henman have to do to improve to win a really big one like a
Wimbledon or even here?

BORIS BECKER: Well, he improved already a lot in the last year and a half. He came from
nowhere to be ranked now in the Top 30. He apparently likes to play on a fast court, so,
Wimbledon one day he may win. Not to put expectations too high for him. I think he needs
to improve his backhand a little bit. He likes it when the ball is coming fast; not so
much when the ball is coming slow, which don't make a big difference on a quick court, but
on a slower court it makes a difference. Altogether you improve by playing. He's just two
years on the circuit now, I suppose. He already came a long way, playing many tournaments,
circumstances, different surfaces, you're going to improve. Who knows how far he's going
to get. He's got a great first serve, which is important these days. I'm actually
surprised why he's not coming in more. Often, if I make a quick return, he stays on the
baseline, he often gets -- I catch him on his heel. He has to play a defensive shot
because he has a good volley, a good hand. He likes to play with a lot of feel. I mean,
all in all, he's a player with a good future.

Q. This is going to be the best final ever on the rankings tomorrow. I guess your
manager would be happy about it. Never two Top 10, apart from the first year when Gilbert
was No. 10 and Sampras top five.

BORIS BECKER: I haven't followed the ranking concerning the final in this tournament.
Everybody knows he's my manager. He's going to be pleased for the first time that I am in
the final. I think after all, you know, whoever is going to be my opponent tomorrow, a
tough player, probably better than the last three I had, which is normal. In a final, you
expect the toughest match of the tournament. I hope we can all see an exciting tennis
match. You know, hopefully me coming out on top.

Q. Boris, could you sum up how you thought the match went?

BORIS BECKER: I thought for the first set and a half, it really was a close battle. You
know, he had a few chances on my serve, a few breakpoints. I had a few chances on his
serve, but it was more or less even. I think the tiebreaker was an important part. I
managed to get a set ahead. I had an early break in the second set. But, he came back and
played for like two or three games in the middle of the second set his best tennis. He had
a chance to go up 4-2 with his serve. I managed to get back. And, I think I've broken his
will a little bit. From the moment he got broken to go down 5-3, he sort of didn't play
the level he did before. Then the third set was very easy. You know, that's how often a
best of five match goes. We had two tough sets, down two sets to love, everything going my
way, so he sort of didn't play as good anymore, and I raised because my confidence was
very high and I felt like I had a good chance of winning.

Q. How stretched were you in that first set? You looked at a full stretch sometimes?

BORIS BECKER: Yeah, yeah, full. It was no holding back on my part. As I said before, he
has a quick hand. He comes up with surprising shots sometimes. I really had to concentrate
on my service games to at least stay even in the games. Let's hopefully take some
advantage in the tiebreaker, which was my hope. That's what I did. He gave me a couple
second serves. I took my opportunity when it arises. As I said, he surprised me by staying
back so much, with such a good first and second serve. He ought to come in more on such a
good surface.

Q. Boris, you're having a marvelous end to the year, playing probably as well as I've
seen you play for ages and ages. What percentage would you put, in looking at your own
game, on your mental strength, your physical abilities, and technical abilities? I mean,
what is the balance? Is it the mind? Is it the will?

BORIS BECKER: I can't put it in percentages, but, you know, all three factors play a
major role in becoming one of the best tennis players. One doesn't go with the other. You
know, you can be as strong-minded; if you don't have the strokes, you're not going to make
it. It's a combination of things, you know. I think each of the Grand Slam winners, all
the top players throughout the years, have those three ingredients. That's what makes it
or breaks it.

Q. How difficult is to think about another tournament when you're playing one
tournament? I'm thinking about the Australian Open. You still on this tournament. How
difficult will be to concentrate on a tournament that you won last year when you have
Christmas in between, vacations, family, problems, all those problems?

BORIS BECKER: Family is not a problem for me, obviously.

Q. You always say the Australian Open, you didn't like the date, you wanted it to be
played later.

BORIS BECKER: I think the Europeans don't like it. The Australians like it. The
Europeans have to leave right after Christmas. The Australians are home. They don't have
big travel ahead of them. I think that's why most Europeans don't like the date.
Nevertheless, I played it over ten times. I've won a few times. Right now it's really not
an issue in my mind. I'm here to concentrate, to win this tournament, which I've never
done in my career. Whatever comes in '97 will come anyway. You know, it's the first couple
days in December, and I'm not going to bother thinking about the future because I'm living
right now.

Q. What are your plans after this event? When are you going to Australia?

BORIS BECKER: I'm going to have problems with my family first (laughter). Then I'm
going to spend Christmas with them. Then I'm going to start the new year with Doha.

Q. Boris, would you say the difference today you've got the experience to take your
chances and get out of trouble, and Henman hasn't got that yet? 

BORIS BECKER: I'd like to think it's more than just experience. I'd like to think my
capabilities are just a bit bigger than his. Obviously, being in that situation for many
years, you know, year in, year out, match in, match out, of course you sort of get a
coolness about it. You know, sometimes are already two points ahead. As I explained to a
colleague of yours before, it's all those three ingredients: your physical endurance, your
willpower, and your technique which is going to make you or break you. It doesn't matter
the score, because breakpoints may seem an important point, but often a match is decided
on different moments. If you're a good player, you sense those moments and you want to
make sure that you win those points. They're not necessarily always in the tiebreaker or
on sort of a big point, a breakpoint, they're often way before.

Q. Boris, who do you view as the new big stars of the next couple of years? And, is
Henman one of them?

BORIS BECKER: I think Tim has the possibilities of becoming a very good player. How
good -- I'm not here to judge because I cannot see the future. But my favorite of all is
Mark Philippoussis because he just has a few shots others don't have. I'm talking about
his first serve, his pure strength. If he's learning to channel that in the right
direction, just think about the point instead of the speed, he's going to be a much better
player. You know, Tim is playing differently. Tim, of course, has to improve in a few
areas, but he has a good coach. They obviously made good work the past couple of years. On
the other hand, the ones who are on top are not going to roll over this easily. You know,
it's still a struggle for the youngsters to come up and to stay in, not just play good one
tournament or one month, but 12 month. You know, the likes of Sampras, Chang, even myself,
are still there. We all would like to be there a little longer, too.

Q. Boris, a saleswoman told me during this tournament that she hoped you won because
it's good for business. How overwhelming is that kind of pressure, being kind of the
leader of the whole German tennis industry?

BORIS BECKER: To be honest, when I'm going on the court, I'm not thinking about that.
You know, it's something which happens with my first Wimbledon. There were times then when
I had trouble to cope with the whole situation. But that's now 12 years ago and I have
ways of handling it well. I sometimes even find different answers for people's reactions.
But, you know, for me it always comes down to what I really like. I truly like to play
tennis. I like to travel around the world. You know, if there's pressure on my shoulders,
I often happen to play better because it just means a bit more, I'm just going the extra
step. Why that is, you got to ask my parents how they brought me up. It's something way
back. I've learned to handle that situation now for 12 years, and it's just my second
nature. I don't think about it when I go on the court. I'm trying to do -- trying to be a
very good tennis player. That's all I have to worry about.

Q. Boris, you couldn't really adapt your play to Henman. He's a newcomer. How did you
do that? What were your possibilities of adapting?

BORIS BECKER: Well, there was a lot of talking about this with my coach. Yesterday,
Thursday, we saw the match against Washington. In fact, this is how today's match started.
Yesterday practicing, this morning we have tried to analyze his strengths and weaknesses.
Well, we made a strategy. How could I act against this? It seems to have worked all right.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT