EUROCARD OPEN
October 21, 1997
Boris Becker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. A little bit different than last week. You had preparation in Hong Kong for this?

BORIS BECKER: I am very glad I could play in Hong Kong to get match-tough. I had three
matches, one doubles. It is one of the reasons why I started pretty good. Marc has been
playing the last couple of weeks indoors, so he knew what to expect; whereas I haven't
played in a long time. So, playing last week helped my confidence and my form
tremendously.

Q. How motivated are you still to play or is your mind on Davis Cup --

BORIS BECKER: My mind is pretty busy these days. But, this week and even last week, I
am trying to concentrate only on the tournaments, I think. I have entered here and
everybody expects me, including myself, to do well. So, it will be a mistake just to talk
about Davis Cup or talk about anything else. But, I think it's easier and better if I am
sticking to tennis at the moment - me, as a player. 

Q. Will you take advantage this week to watch a little bit of Kiefer and Haas? Both are
playing here.

BORIS BECKER: I have watched them the whole year already and I -- it is a good thing
that two relatively young players are improving that quickly over the last year and both
are, at the moment, playing extremely well and it is definitely a boost for German tennis
if those two guys could improve better.

Q. Do you think it is a good thing that one is on your team and the other one is
outside the team? Do you think it is a good thing for the future good competition between
them?

BORIS BECKER: We always said that it didn't matter where a good player is coming from
as long as he is good and there are different ways to the top and, you know, Kiefer and
Haas are doing it in a different way, but both are successful and that shows everybody
that there is not just one way, but different solutions for problems.

Q. You mentioned you are expected to do well here this week. So, how pleased were you
with the way you played today?

BORIS BECKER: Well, I am playing -- the expectations are extremely high from the fans
and for myself. So I am extremely happy to have such a great start, you know, it is over
now 6-2, 6-4; it shows again I am playing good tennis and Krajicek tomorrow is going to be
a better player indoors, therefore, I need to improve a little bit on my today's
performance. But, so far I can only talk about the first match which was very good.

Q. How difficult could it be to be general manager of the Davis Cup team and at the
same time to be a player?

BORIS BECKER: I just was talking to your journalist friend and explained to him that I
am a player this week and therefore ask about Goellner or Krajicek and not about my other
professions.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT