COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
September 24, 1997
Boris Becker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Was that a surprise or given your lack of recent matchplay, not too much of a surprise?

BORIS BECKER:  Well, obviously, I thought I had a chance before the match.  I'm feeling comfortable indoors, you know.  I'm the defending champion.  I, you know, played good over the weekend.  But I couldn't, obviously, put away the fact that I haven't played a serious tournament play in over two and a half months.  As much as you practice, as much as you work, it's not the same thing when you go out in a match and you have to make certain shots under pressure.  I have an opponent on the other side who probably had the best summer of his career.  And, it showed.  You know, he played with a lot of self-confidence.  He knew exactly what he was doing.  And, the way he returned my first serve just was the key to the match.  You know, that's my biggest weapon, and his biggest weapon is his return. And it didn't matter where I served, he came up with incredible returns. But, I still had a few chances.  I could break him back in the first set.  I was 3-1 up in the first set.  But, you know, every time when it was important, he knew exactly what he had to do.  And I just, you know, wasn't that sure. And, then it showed, you know.  He was able to raise his game to another level where I just couldn't do it myself.


Q. In the beginning, you succeeded quite well to play a few excellent returns.  It should have given you some more confidence for the match.  You could tell how you could handle him.

BORIS BECKER:  Well, you know, even after I played quite a few very good returns, I had a few game points, 5-4 in the first set especially.  But, then I simply didn't play good enough when it really mattered.  In general terms, I played quite a few good shots and good serves.  But, when it really mattered, I didn't play the good shots, or he knew the answer each and every time.  This is why I have to recognize that it's okay that he won, even though he was clearly better than I was today.  Could we do English first and German after, please, because otherwise I get confused.


Q. This is your last match in Munich.  Is it a bit of a sad way to go out?

BORIS BECKER:  I didn't say that.  Unfortunately, the speaker in the hall announced that.  I don't know how he  got that information.  He didn't get it from me.  I, obviously, you know, know that if I'm able to not play a normal tournament, not perhaps the way I have to as a professional tennis player, I cannot play great matches.  I said this summer that my main goal now is to concentrate around Davis Cup as a player, and therefore I have to play a few tournaments around that date.  Our next match is in March.  I will play a few more tournaments this year.  I will play a few more next year before the Tie just to prepare properly.  The next Compaq Grand Slam Cup is in September. You know, it really depends on my form.  If I'm able to produce, again, the sort of tennis which gives me a chance to play well, and to win those kind of tournaments, then I will play.  If I feel like over the next six months, eight months, with playing less, doesn't give me a chance to, you know, compete with the best in the world, then I won't play.  But, at this point in time, I cannot definitely say that I won't play here anymore.  You know, it depends on many things.  Obviously, I won't play Grand Slams anymore and I won't play like a full schedule.  But I will see how everything works out, and then we go on from there. 


Q. Obviously then you're saying that you expect to be given a wildcard here even if you don't play -- you say you're not going to play any of the Grand Slams next year. Do you expect to still be given a wildcard if you want to play?

BORIS BECKER:  I don't expect it.  It has to be decided by the Grand Slam Chairmen and the company of the tournament.  First of all, I have to bring a certain form with it.  You know, if I'm able to compete the next six to nine months, again, with the best in the world; if I'm able to play good tournaments, then we can talk about it.  But, I'm going to be the last one to say I absolutely want one if I'm not able to bring a certain form with it.  But until the tournament, we have another 12 months.  Last time I talked to this tournament, I was the winner.  Now, I lost 3-2 in the first round.  We will see how much things can change in ten months.


Q. What's your schedule for the end of the season? Are you going to play the big tournaments like Stuttgart and Paris Indoor?

BORIS BECKER:  I will play, for sure, Vienna and Hong Kong, and then I see how those two tournaments go. Then I will continue from there.  I can't say yet that I  will play Stuttgart or Paris for sure, no.  I have to wait until those tournaments are over about my playing, whether it's going to be all right if I will play.


Q. Presumably it is of the greatest importance to you that you kind of keep your legend intact.  You're not the kind of person or player who is going to enjoy going out and being beaten 6-3, 6-2 against players who in your prime you should beat.  Is that kind of the main thinking behind the next twelve months?

BORIS BECKER:  Well, I have to give myself a chance.  Unfortunately, with all the events this summer, I didn't give myself a good chance to perform well here.  You know, that's the truth.  Not only was I injured, but the maker, the man behind the tournament died as well; which was a close friend of mine.  That really didn't give me the chance to concentrate and focus on tennis.  That's not going to be the case hopefully for the next six months.  If I'm able to play tournaments again, win rounds, just give myself a chance to come back to form, then I can talk about, you know, playing in that type of tournament again.  But, you know, tennis is a sport where you cannot just show up after not playing for a long time and expect to play well.  You have to work yourself into a form.  That's  going to take a bit of time, a bit of patience.  That means, you know, I cannot expect now to go to Vienna and expect to win it and be disappointed if I lose. It goes in steps.  If I'm patient enough, and if I give myself a chance, you know, over the next six months, then we'll see.


Q. You became a big sportsman in the beginning of Russian Peristroika.  We, in Moscow, other cities of our country, love you for it.  Please tell me about your final steps in your career.

BORIS BECKER:  That is a lot to ask for a situation like that.  Talking about my goals as a tennis player, I will continue to play less, but I will concentrate around Davis Cup, that I'm able to help the German team as a player.  So, the next goal is going to be for me the next major, major event is going to be March, the end of March. Then I see how everything goes over that time.  You know, if I'm able to improve, if I'm able to do what I'm supposed to do, to be a good tennis player.  Then I sit down again.  You know, I talk with my people.  I make the rest of the year, the scheduling-wise.


Q. Good luck.

BORIS BECKER:  Thank you.


Q. I know you've sort of ruled out the Grand Slams,  but there's been a lot of speculation, and there will be, that when Wimbledon comes around, and if you're feeling fit and you've been playing well, that you might find it irresistible to go back to Wimbledon.  I mean, is that the case?

BORIS BECKER:  You know, we are in September right now.  I can speak calmly about Wimbledon of next year.  By the time the tournament comes around, I'm probably going to be very nervous and very tempted to play.  But I hope I'm wise enough and smart enough and have people holding me back, you know, not to play the tournament.  At this point in time, I don't think it would be right for me, and it would be fair to myself if I'm going to play that.  You know, I had a great time.  I had a great finish.  That should be it.


Q. I'm trying to understand:  What is the point to play tennis in a minor events and forgetting about the Grand Slam events?  I mean, what does it take you to go to Hong Kong, just to give you an idea?

BORIS BECKER:  What people misunderstand or don't understand often is why players, like myself, come into the sport is because we love the sport, in general.  You know, we love going out in the morning at nine o'clock and hit tennis balls with whoever, doesn't matter who it is.   After we've done that, for a couple of weeks, we want to see that in a serious tournament match.  Then when we're good enough, we want to play higher and bbetter and better tournamentsI'm through with that.  But, I still love the game of tennis.  You know, that's one point.  That's why many players want to play for a long time.  For my personal issues, it's a little bit different.  You know, we, in Germany, have a bit of a hole right now with Michael and myself not playing anymore full-time.  He stopped completely.  I stopped semi.  The next guy we have is around 50, so it's quite a big gap between, you know, Michael's caliber and the next guy.  We have built something since 1985.  You know, we have tournaments like Compaq Grand Slam Cup, the World Championship in Hannover, and so many big tournaments which was built on our shoulders.  If we wouldn't be around, we wouldn't have those tournaments.  And since I love the sport, it's something I know, you know, not only playing-wise, but also I can teach other young players how to do it better.  I feel an obligation to stay in that boat as long as possible, as long as somebody else comes up and takes on the torch and carries it into,  you know, another level.  You know, tennis has given me so much, has given me so many opportunities in life that I feel like, you know, deep down that I have to now give back a little bit.  If that means I may lose to players I haven't lost in ten years, so be it.  You know, I've beaten them so many times that if I lose once or twice now, it doesn't really matter.  My goal is Davis Cup right now.  You know, I want to help Germany to be still on the map in the world in tennis, and that's for the next six months.  I don't know what's after.  I hope I'm still good enough, I'm still able to help, but we'll see that in March.  But, you know, deep down, I simply love the game of tennis.  You know, I will play until I'm 80, probably not any more tournaments, not anymore on 35s, but tennis-wise I'll play with my wife or my son for the rest of my life.


Q. Still, I mean, to go to Hong Kong, what would add to your - I don't know - ambitions, career, love of the game?  I mean, if you love the game, I'm sure you love more to go to Wimbledon than to Hong Kong.

BORIS BECKER:  But, in order to go to Wimbledon, and you talk about me, you talk somebody who has won more single matches than anybody, I have a certain respect for myself.  I cannot show up, you know, not playing full-time. There's certain rules you have to abide by as a tennis  player.  You have to prepare like a professional.  I don't want to do that anymore because it takes 45 weeks in the year to travel.  I have a family.  I have other things to do.  I've done it for 15 years.  So, you know, I'm past that stage.  Therefore, I cannot pretend that I go to Wimbledon and I have a serious chance.  But, for myself, I only can play those tournaments if I have a serious chance.  Because those tournaments, you know, were not just about enjoying the first rounds.  For me, they are about winning it.  You know, smaller events, I take them with a different approach.  That's why.Plus, you know, I have to fill the gap between now and March.  You know, I have to play tennis.  I have to play tournaments just to stay in form, stay in shape, improve, obviously.  Then, you know, once we have a good draw, win the first round, then we go from there.


Q. By the way, first round is 3-5 April.

BORIS BECKER:  Even better.  I can play one more week (laughter).


Q. You spoke a lot about Davis Cup and you spoke about the development of German tennis.  Have you got on your mind at all the possibility of being Davis Cup captain for Germany; and, if so, how far down the track would you see something like that happening? 

BORIS BECKER:  I expect actually from the German colleagues that question to be put.  I think right now I'm more important as a player. There's going to be a time when I'm not good enough or too old to do that anymore.  I've obviously decided with the Mercedes team that I will stay in tennis.  I could have decided I'm not going to stay in tennis at all and I'm going to do something completely different.  But, I've decided to stay in it.  You know, that means all together.  That Mercedes team is for, you know -- we have five good German players, and hopefully one of them or two of them are going to make it to the very top.  But, obviously, we have many more good players in Germany, and, you know -- so, I'm obviously interested in something more.  At this point in time, I cannot tell you more details, even though I know a few.


Q. Seeing how far away you are from No. 13, because you thought you might beat him--.

BORIS BECKER:  Well, you know, tennis sometimes is a difficult and strange sport, difficult to understand even for me.  Thomas Muster played before I did today.  He lost 2-6, 4-6.  However you lose, does it really matter?  What  really matters is winning or losing.  And obviously he was clearly better than I was today.  I don't even have to look for any excuses.  I don't have to apologize.  I haven't played any tournaments, major tournament, recently.  He played the game of his life this year, and he played a decisive match for his country.  You could tell the difference today.  I would really have to worry if I was to play tournaments, Federation, playing here, and still lose 3-6, 4-6, then it would really be time to quit.  But, I am convinced that if I get some tournaments, preparations, serious ties and matches, wherever, I can get into form, I can play these players.  This is what I believe.  I'm convinced I'm going to do this in the weeks and months to come, then my form is going to come back.  But, what is really interesting for me is the first Davis Cup Tie, the forthcoming, and I'm going to play a few more tournaments, practice more.  Will I be able to play this tournament next year? It depends on many things.  Will the form be okay?  My attitude, so on?


Q. (Inaudible)

BORIS BECKER:  Well, physically I'm okay, but my form, my shape isn't okay.  These two tournaments I mentioned will bring a few matches, and then I decide  whether or not to play Stuttgart where you see the best of this world, even in the first round realistically to get any further.


Q. (Inaudible)

BORIS BECKER:  Well, the normal practice started a couple of weeks ago.  Shouldn't think that I didn't play at all.  I prepared seriously, but practicing; not playing tournaments.  You can't compare.


Q. You just mentioned one thing.  You said there's a gap in German tennis, and it wouldn't be a good point in time to step down as a player.  Conversely, if these young players were good enough in order to fill this gap in the Davis Cup, to stay in the top division, would you step down completely or is it for love, for tennis, that you carry on playing?

BORIS BECKER:  Well, I think that if it was no longer necessary, I wouldn't play the way I'm doing it right now.  But, we are talking about things that are matters of the future.  I still feel I can help them and get a few important points.  But, I'm convinced the day will come, maybe even in six months from now, we have a few most talented young players.  Maybe they'll jump into the top 25 or 30 where they are really expected to produce points, and then I won't have to play anymore. 


Q. Assuming next April you can win the first round, would you then step down and give them a chance without any pressure to get used to the Davis Cup?  Is that what you intend to do?

BORIS BECKER:  Well, I can't speculate about the future.  We first have to win the first round, and we'll see what comes next.  I really can't say anything about it right now.


Q. Could you just comment on DTB and Michael Stich, not seeing any basis right now to cooperate as we learned today by fax message?

BORIS BECKER:  Of course, I can't.  Of course, I can't.


Q. You said you'll carry on playing because you take pleasure in hitting balls at nine o'clock in the morning, whoever it is.  I'm free tomorrow morning at nine o'clock. Would you like to play a few balls?

BORIS BECKER:  I promised my wife I was going to play with her tomorrow morning.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT