COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 3, 1996
Boris Becker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Boris, a question about the Davis Cup. Did you watch the Davis Cup final? And, did
you enjoy it?

BORIS BECKER: I enjoyed it very much. How could you not watch it? It was all day on
television. I had a few friends on the French team. I guess, it was very dramatic and
emotional. I guess it brought a few fans back for Davis Cup competition.

Q. After such a highlight, like Hannover, how can you get motivated for another
tournament? Is it difficult for you?

BORIS BECKER: No. It was good for me to be able to play very soon after Hannover. It
was a great match, but I lost after all at the end of the day. First you are exhausted and
you are glad you have a week off. A couple of days later, I was rather frustrated I had
lost. And, I wanted to start practicing as soon as possible and focus on this tournament. 

Q. What do you say about the early upset of Michael Stich, first round defeat?

BORIS BECKER: It's not easy after a break of several weeks to play again in a major
tournament. The first round is always something very difficult, even if you are a very
good tournament player. However, I admit I didn't see too much of this match. I only knew
the score. I had to play right after. These are the things that happen. It's happened to
me.

Q. Additional question, Boris. Would you dare guess the finalists right after the first
round?

BORIS BECKER: Not at all. I can't say a word about this.

Q. Boris, I don't know whether you heard about it yesterday. Michael announced a
certain claim as far as the Davis Cup team captain is concerned. Did you hear about it?

BORIS BECKER: No. Only briefly in the newspaper this morning.

Q. What do you think about it?

BORIS BECKER: I can't give any comment. I wasn't there live. I don't always believe
what I read in the newspapers. I know no news about this.

Q. He said the way he imagined the future was to be Davis Cup team captain. He wanted
to be an assistant now and learn. I imagine you have the same ambitions.

BORIS BECKER: No. I would like to carry on playing a couple years. I'm not sure I have
the same ambitions.

Q. Additional question, Boris. Could you explain the difference between Hannover and
Munich? The atmosphere of the hall and the surface.

BORIS BECKER: Well, there are differences, of course, starting with the crowd. There
are not many great events in Hannover, so, people are very excited, enthusiastic. And,
they are a bit pampered here in Munich, it would appear normal. The best tennis players
drop in every year here. In Hannover, it was the major event of the last few years. This
is why everybody was there right from the first minute in Hannover; whereas, you have to
warm them up here in Munich. The way I saw it last year, it's going to come from match to
match, increasingly. There was very good atmosphere as of the semifinals last year. As far
as the surface is concerned, it's a major difference because we are talking about Supreme
here and hardcourt in Hannover. The main difference is the altitude. We are playing at
450, 500 altitude sea level. The ball flies longer; a bit faster. As compared to last
year, we don't have the same ball anymore. The balls are not as fast as they used to be.
There are some baseline rallies now. If you want to know more about the differences, both
are indoors, of course. Two winning sets in the beginning. I can't depict any additional
differences, but everything wasn't perfect in Hannover from the first minute. There were a
couple problems that had to be solved behind, back stage. This is the seventh time this
tournament has been organized in Munich. Maybe you want to know the atmosphere in the
hall, we have to wait and see. You'll be able to tell after the week if you want to
compare Munich and Hannover.

Q. Coming back to today's match, was it a difficult starting match?

BORIS BECKER: My advantage certainly was that he is not one of the best servers, so you
can find your rhythm. You can play tennis. And, you have a chance when it comes to
returning the serve of your opponent. That was good for me; not to have somebody like
Goran Ivanisevic or Todd. I was lucky to have somebody who makes his points from the
baseline or by good volleys, not 25 aces. But this doesn't mean it was easy. It doesn't
mean it was just a warm-up. It was good in terms of finding my rhythm.

Q. Mr. Becker, you gave a lot to tennis. Tennis gave a lot to you. This interaction
might go beyond your time as a player. What about the Mercedes team? People talk about
that.

BORIS BECKER: I do not want to talk about this here. It's not the right place to do
this. I just played Jason Stoltenberg. I'm going to play some further matches, I hope.
What I do outside shouldn't be discussed here.

Q. You sometimes change your racket right in the middle of a serving game, and even
more so when your service game is a tight one, you sometimes change the racket after. I
mean, is this a problem in terms of the court? Is the pressure released?

BORIS BECKER: No. The only time I change my racket is if I feel it's going to tear,
then I do it whether it's my service or not.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT