ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 24, 1996
Boris Becker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  What are the feelings with such a match?  You were dominating for most of the match.  What are you feeling deep inside now?
 
BORIS BECKER:  In fact, I just saw the stats and I made 12 more points than he.  And, I ended up losing it.  It just shows how incredibly close the whole match was.  I cannot blame myself.  I returned well.  I served well.  I did everything to the best of my possibilities.  And, he ended up winning the match.  That is the way tennis goes sometimes.  An amazing sport.  And, it is just -- you never know for sure until you win the point or until it is over and it just showed that two players on top of their game, running their guts out. I was very proud of the performance, that part of the match,  because tell you the truth, I really can't play bad.  That was the ultimate match for me.  And, I think also for him.  I mean, he played better than on Wednesday and even I did.  And, to be part of such a match was just one of the highlights of my career. 
 

Q.  Do you think he you can lose that match against the No. 1 in the world?
 
BORIS BECKER:  Excuse me? 
 

Q.  Do you think you can lose this sort of match only against the No. 1 in the world?
 
BORIS BECKER:  Well, I guess so.  He has got to have something to be four years running No. 1 in the world and everybody saw today even when the score was against him, he played tough.  He kept his composure.  And, he kept hanging in there even when I was playing better.  And -- but, all credit to him, he really didn't give me anything.  I didn't get any break.  I didn't get any easy mistakes.  I had to work for every single point.  And, at the end, it was just he was just a shot better than me. 
 

Q.  Do you think it would have been this close had you been playing outside Germany?
 
BORIS BECKER:  Oh, I think so, yeah.  Maybe it affected him on Wednesday or Thursday when we played.  Today, I don't think it affected any of us much.  We got used to the situation all week long.  And, it really didn't matter where it  was played.  I am a good enough of a player, proven for twelve years, that I am able to play that kind of tennis regardless of the country. 
 

Q.  Did you feel that the crowd lifted your game even higher than it might have been otherwise?
 
BORIS BECKER:  Of course they have lifted me.  But, I am able to play like that even when the crowd is not that much behind me.  I am a professional tennis player and I manage to play well all over the world.  I think on Thursday was a bigger shock for both of us how loud they were and how much atmosphere was happening.  Today, I felt they were almost more quiet than on Thursday because how much can you scream all week long? (audience laughter).  The match was long and everybody was a bit tired too. So, it was just enough for everybody out there. 
 

Q.  You played many great matches.  Where do you rank this one there terms of emotion and --
 
BORIS BECKER:  It has got to be one of the best I have ever been a part of.  Unfortunately, I didn't make the last point.  But, coming from a tennis point of view, from the level I have reached from the dilemma - from just altogether not being able to -- me not being able to play the whole summer; in the house, when everybody was playing Wimbledon, U.S. Open, just basically a week to qualify for the ATP Final and now to be able to pull  a match off like that, for me, it is out of this world.  I am at a loss of words and I can't play better.  That was just the ultimate match for me. 
 

Q.  Boris, over the length of your career you have played many, many great players, McEnroe and people like that.  Where would you put Sampras now in terms of the great players?
 
BORIS BECKER:  I said a few years ago already that if that guy keeps playing the way he has been, he has a chance of being the greatest ever.  And, I have played with the likes of Lendl or McEnroe, or Connors.  I even practiced with Borg and there is absolutely no comparison.  If I would play right now, how I did ten years ago, I would have no chance against Pete, or even against others.  The game has just improved so much. It has gotten so much faster altogether that, you know, it is not even a point of comparing.  It is like in any other sport. People get stronger; get quicker.  And, Pete is just, you know, one of the few. 
 

Q.  As you get older, do you enjoy those sort of matches more?
 
BORIS BECKER:  I love it.  That is why I am practicing and that is why I play tennis.  I mean, that is the ultimate satisfaction.  That is why we are all in this game.  And, matches like that keep me in the game longer and longer.  And, at the end, it almost didn't matter for me anymore who won or who lost.  It was just so enjoyable and I was so emotional and  so much in the match.  I risked everything.  I played up -- to the top of my possibilities.  And, it was, for me, a great pleasure. 
 

Q.  I think it's the fifth time you have played each other in the group and the loser of the match in the group wins the tournament.  Have you any logical explanation for that or just coincidence?
 
BORIS BECKER:  No.  It is a question of pressure.  The guy who wins first has obviously more pressure playing the guy again.  It happened to me once with Stefan when the ATP Tour Finals were held in New York, that I beat him easy in the round robin.  All the pressure is on the guy who wins first because he is supposed to be better.  He is supposed to be in better shape, so, the other guy has actually less weight on his shoulders.  And, I guess that is the only explanation.  I mean, Pete was -- had to fight on Friday to stay alive.  Everyday it could have been his lost match.  Where, me, I was qualified Thursday evening. 
 

Q.  Do you prefer the round robin format or a straight knockout?
 
BORIS BECKER:  You have two sides, obviously, there. In general, I like the knockout system because that is how we play the whole year through.  You got to be good enough to survive the first round and then every round from then on.  On the other hand, for to be able to qualify for the  ATP Final, you have to work very hard and you have to -- it would be unfortunate to go out after one match.  But, that is sport.  You have a winner and you have a loser.  And, you have situations like this week where I played on Friday against somebody who wasn't even qualified and I was already qualified for the semifinals.  So, it is a waste of energy and a waste of time for me.  I, personally, I guess would favor the knockout system because it is fair and square.  You got to be good enough to survive the week and the winner is the winner without losing a match. 
 

Q.  The way you have been able to play twice against Pete the first day and today.  What does this tell you for the in the future?
 
BORIS BECKER:  Well, I am right there.  I am right there with the best in the world.  And, I mean, he has no excuse or no explanation.  I was 12 points better than him, but I didn't make the last point.  And, it is just a very strong statement from my point of view that I am able to play with the best in the world day in and day out.  And, if I stay healthy, I am going to give Pete and all the others a good run for their money next year. 
 

Q.  Is the trouble with your wrist totally cured now?
 
BORIS BECKER:  Once I am in a tournament, you know, once I have finished the first match, everything is fine.  It is just the first couple of days when I come into a new hall,  with new balls and new surface, the whole body has to get used to the hitting and so on; then my wrist hurts a little bit. But, after my first round is over, then I am fine. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT