ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 21, 1996
Boris Becker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BORIS BECKER:  May I stop now? (laughter)


Q.  Boris, is this possibly the most exciting match you have played this year?

BORIS BECKER:  I guess winning a Grand Slam tournament just a bit more.  Plus the final in Stuttgart.  The only problem today was that it wasn't the final of a major championship, but the quality, you are right, it was a level I haven't reached probably ever in my career.  Especially in the first set, we had some rallies, I didn't think I was able to  play like that from the back of the court and -- but, I did it.  And, I am still at a loss for words.  I can't explain why.  I am practicing hard in the last couple of weeks and month and everything is going well.  But, I am able to reach such a level.  I didn't think it would be possible against the current No. 1.


Q.  How much did the crowd help you today?  You couldn't have wished for more?

BORIS BECKER:  When I was standing up on the stairs just before I was coming down and the music of Rocky was playing, I was just about to make some boxing movements coming out.  (audience laughter) I was so pumped.  It was incredible. It was the most amazing feeling I have ever had walking on a tennis court.  But, on the other hand, I really had to calm down.  My emotions were flying so high at the beginning of the match that I almost, you know, I was overhitting at some stages.  I was risking shots like an idiot sometimes.  But, when the crowd is so much for you and they are so into the match, it is really hard also for the one who they are rooting for because I am human after all and my emotions and my heart is pumping even more than it is already doing anyway.  And, you know, I am always trying to calm myself down and not really to look too far ahead; not to get affected too much by the atmosphere and the crowd and by the whole event.


Q.  There were several moments in that match where it  could have swung the other way.  Of the very many matches, perhaps the aces that you came up with to save that first set, was that possibly the --

BORIS BECKER:  I think that was a huge game.  We struggled back and forth to go up to 5-4.  Then he had those three running set points.  Even though I served two aces and service winner, that was a very, very important crucial moment of the match, plus the first set tiebreak when it was going, I don't know until 10-All, 11-All, and that was important.  But, in a match with Pete, you got to expect it even when you set up that is why he is so consistent and so good.  He, still, in the second set, he had me breakpoints down; even had a break serving for the second set.  And, so, I couldn't pinpoint one particular point.  I think it was an accumulation of points where the difference was made.


Q.  You played him many times.  You have played him many times indoors also.  Where do you think this fits in as far as quality of the match overall?

BORIS BECKER:  I can't recall all the matches indoors or outdoors.  I can only speak for myself.  And, from my point of view, it was one of the best matches I have played against him, obviously.  I had a good one with him a couple of weeks ago.  Couple of years ago at the finals of the World Championship was a very good match even though he came out as the winner, I was playing well.  So, it is always hard to judge  and to say that was the best match you ever played.  But, from my points of view, that was -- the moments were on crucial points and I didn't -- sometimes I didn't come up with the ace.  I had to rally.  I had run a lot which is not normally not my strong point.  But I was able to go head-to-head with him on that particular area.  That is what pleased me so much that I was able to stay with him from the baseline.


Q.  If it comes down to a final, how hard would it be to beats him three times in a row?

BORIS BECKER:  I haven't done it yet.  Maybe at the beginning of my career, or beginning of his career when he wasn't that good yet.  But, he is still the current and undisputed heavyweight champion of the world, so, for me, it is always an honor to play him and to be able to win him.  It is obviously a very special moment in my life.


Q.  Silly question perhaps: do you remember the last time you played not one diving shot in a rally, but two?

BORIS BECKER:  One and a half.  I was still on my feet.  I was trying not to overdo it, you know.


Q.  What about the telephones, calling all the time?

BORIS BECKER:  You know, that shouldn't be allowed. That is really distracting for both players, and if people -- What is so important.  If a spectator wants to leave the handies home or somewhere.  Or turn them off; it is possible to do that.  If you want to watch a tennis match, than you just  have to turn them off, yeah.


Q.  How do you compare after two matches the atmosphere in Hannover to the atmosphere in Frankfurt?

BORIS BECKER:  I said that walking down on the court today with those many steps and the music of Rocky playing - which is one of my favorite tunes anyway -  it was, you know, I had goose bumps all over my body walking down, and I was just about to take off the ground and fly into Nirvana.

(Laughter.)


Q.  Happy birthday.

BORIS BECKER:  Not yet.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT