IBM/ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 18, 1995
Boris Becker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Did you always believe you will make it; especially after the second set?
 
 BORIS BECKER: Oh, I wasn't so convinced that I'd make it finally. He raised his game to
a very high level second set, and I think from my part, it was my best match of the
tournament. I couldn't play any better and it was a matter of basically who, you know, who
can make the point when he has the chance. He had me breakpoints in the third set and I
came up with the good points and then finally, I had him, and, you know, I got a little
bit ahead from the net cord and he made two errors, but it was a tough match to lose. It
wasn't that he lost it, more it was more of the question that I won it and he played
incredibly well, and, you know, I am very proud of my performance. It was the best of the
week. 
 
Q. Was the audience a great help for you?
 
 BORIS BECKER: Always is a great help. I cannot deny it. But I am repeating myself, but
they were not making his life extremely hard. Of course, they are on my side and they are
trying to support me as much as I can, but they are still trying to be fair. 
 
Q. What about Michael Chang in the final now? Your thoughts on that.
 
 BORIS BECKER: I watched the match obviously before my match, and Michael played
extremely aggressive. Maybe he caught Pete a little bit by surprise. If he is able to beat
Pete Sampras 4 and 4, you know, he must be playing extremely well tennis at the moment,
and from my part, after I have to make sure I play on a level I did today and, you know,
hopefully again make the important points. 
 
Q. Isn't it surprising knowing his history in this tournament that he is actually in
the final against you, though?
 
 BORIS BECKER: You always break the spell once. He is such a good player that it's a way
-- a question of time, when he finally breaks the spell. He was this year close in a
couple of Grand Slams to make it through again and to win finally. He had a very, very
good year, and, you know, for him to be finally in the final, is a major step forward;
especially indoors, and, you know, I have to really be careful tomorrow to play my game
and hopefully beat him. 
 
Q. Does the fact that this is the last year here have any emotional impact on you
whatsoever?
 
 BORIS BECKER: On me it has. I had that thought already in the Kafelnikov match that
that could be my last sets here, so I was trying maybe even a little bit harder just to
make sure that I gave it 110% out there, and yes, I am seeing it in a way with a sad eye
because it has been my favorite indoor tournament for the past five years and it happens
to be the ATP final with the top 8. And I have had great matches here and I am kind of sad
we are moving. 
 
Q. You have seen a lot of players come and go, young guys come through and everything.
Enqvist, looking at his game, what do you think about his potential?
 
 BORIS BECKER: I think he stays. He is not a caliber who comes and goes. He has so much
potential in his game to be even ranked higher than he is right now. He reminds me very
much of Andre's game in a way, just his serve is bigger. He plays extremely hard from the
baseline without missing much, which is very rare. He takes the ball on the rise. He
doesn't put much topspin on it, and I don't know how many unforced errors he made, but not
many. He, you know, is already playing a couple of years. He had the last two, three years
were up and down for him. Now he finally broke through and I think he is there for good. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT