IBM/ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 17, 1995
Boris Becker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. The German journalists very often write only about family stories and other stuff
from stars not about the game itself. Boris, what was the best part in your game? What did
you like most? Which parts of the game and the second question is would you --

BORIS BECKER: Is he serious, what is going on?

Q. Yes, it is serious, are you already engaged in ecological sponsoring and the third
question, one of the colleagues was asked how he got fit again and he answered
"through orange juice and sex" and how did you try to get fit again? Thank you
very much.

BORIS BECKER: Well, first of all, any journalist usually gets one question, not three.

Q. I am different.

BORIS BECKER: Well, because you are different my comment is "no comment."

Q. Wonderful. So many second serve aces. Have you ever gotten yourself out --

BORIS BECKER: I had matches before. I risk a lot on my second serve and, you know,
sometimes they go and sometimes they go out. They asked me after the Muster match in Monte
Carlo whether I would do it again. I said "any time." It is my trademark, that
on the important points, I go for it. I am trying to risk it. And many, many times they go
in, you know, sometimes I do make a doublefault. I do make an error, but, you know, it is
part of my character. I cannot change that.

Q. Boris, how much was the pressure today or did you play your usual game?

BORIS BECKER: The pressure was just so much more because I knew if I have a bad ten
minutes or so, he is going to get a break. I am not only battling against him, but I am
battling, you know, against me being out of the tournament, so that puts me under so much
pressure with every point and every game I play, and usually I prefer the format where
even if I lose a set, I am still able to win and go through, but with that format we have,
it occurred to me 1992 when I had two singles wins, but I was playing my last Round Robin
match; I was playing Pete Sampras; I won the first set; I lost the second set in the
tiebreaker, so I was out of the tournament because of losing one set, so anyway, we have
to rethink the format because it cannot be like that, that you win two matches out of your
Round Robin and you are not able to qualify for the semifinal. You know, it happened to me
now for the second time in three years, and I don't think it is should be that way.

Q. How big is the satisfaction taking on that pressure and beating him today?

BORIS BECKER: Well, the satisfaction is emmense because, you know, he is one of the
best players indoors, and I have played him twice already this year and he has beaten me
once, so I knew what I was up to. I knew I had to perform my best, but I had to finish him
off in two sets and the satisfaction was just very great right now.

Q. Getting back to the format a moment, would you prefer a straightforward knockout 16
or what?

BORIS BECKER: In all the tournaments in the world we play the knockout system, and they
had it in the Masters a few years ago, and it is just psychologically some players play
better under pressure, and some players, you know, play better when there is less pressure
when they have a couple of matches to go, and since it is not the format we usually play,
I'd like to play how we usually play in the year, meaning if you lose, you lose; you go
home.

Q. Kafelnikov thought that the crowd reaction might have been kind of a payback of what
happened in Moscow in the Davis Cup semifinal.

BORIS BECKER: He is still very young in the circuit, so he doesn't know how the crowd
reacted to me in Frankfurt five years ago and how they react. I thought they were very
fair. Of course they are very much behind me because they also clap for his good shots,
but when he shows them the middle fingers - excuse me - it is probably the most stupid
thing you can do in Germany against a German crowd when he plays me. I mean, give me a
break.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT