IBM/ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 15, 1995
Boris Becker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Boris, you felt yesterday that Ferreira played a terrific first set. What about the
way Sampras played the first set today?
 
 BORIS BECKER: I have to put some water in the glass first.... It was probably the first
25 minutes was the best anybody has ever played me in this hall. It was just amazing
because I came out pretty good. I won my first service game rather easy. Then I just -- I
thought I had good timing and he was on fire. I mean, I have never seen something like
that. Second set, I started to get a little bit more into the game. He didn't take all his
opportunities he had, but he was still very tough because you are under so much pressure
on your own service games all the time. He starts off with two aces, great shots. As I
said, it just makes you aware that if you lose your own service games, you are basically
out of the match right away. And it was like a freight train hit me today. 
 
Q. Boris, when you play Sampras now, do you get the feeling he is just better? If that
is the case, is that the first time you have ever had that situation?
 
 BORIS BECKER: Well, he plays similar to my game in a way. Just everything a little bit
better. If he has a good day, he is almost impossible to beat. 
 
Q. Have you ever played somebody in your whole career like that?
 
 BORIS BECKER: I had my problems with Andre as well. It is not like he is the only guy I
have trouble with, but with Pete's game, with Andre's sometimes you have some rallies, and
you feel like you have a chance, but when Pete is up a break and a set, you feel like you
have no chance of coming back that set either or he makes three doublefaults, very easy
mistakes, which he didn't do in the last couple of years anyway, so he is an excellent
player. 
 
Q. (inaudible)
 
 BORIS BECKER: Like all the players he has ups-and-downs, but he doesn't go as down as
most players go. When he is playing average it is still extremely good and when he is top,
he is the best, so, you know, there was a time say the first six month of last year when
he played just extremely well tennis. Then he got injured and couldn't play in a while and
he picked it up in the summer winning Wimbledon and winning the Open, and, you know, what
can I tell you..... I just got beaten up pretty badly. I am still bruised all over still. 
 
Q. Does that surprise you, Boris, that he has still kept his focus, I mean, he seems I
mean, he has got every excuse for being exhausted after what he has been through this
year, but he just seems to carry on; nothing seems to distract him at all.
 
 BORIS BECKER: That is why he is probably the champion he is. Even when he is not
feeling too well or when he is injured, he keeps on playing and playing and he has -- he
had some losses this year, for example, on the clay court tournaments, he didn't do as
well, or until Wimbledon, really he didn't have like a great year for his standards, but
he keeps on playing. He keeps on competing all the time even when he is half, let us say,
and, you know, that is why at the long run, he finished or he is just about to finish 
 No. 1 for the past three years, and that is why -- that -- yeah, that is what makes him
so special, I guess. 
 
Q. Boris, until Andre got back on, there was still some mathematical doubts as to who
will be No. 1, but in reality, do you think Sampras is the best player and should be No. 1
at the moment? 
 
 BORIS BECKER: Well, Andre had a fantastic year as well. It is just that Pete won
Wimbledon. He won the Open. He made the finals of the Australian Open and, you know, won a
couple of tournaments along the way. And if you have that much success, you should be
ranked No. 1. You know, who is better, I don't know. Both are extremely good players. But,
you know, from his latest performance, he is ahead. 
 
Q. Boris, speaking about Davis Cup and considering your own experience and the coming
back USA, Russia in the final, what do you think, is it all necessary to get All-Star on
the team to win or is there something else that makes a good team?
 
 BORIS BECKER: Well, the one who puts water on the court is very important. The
Americans have to watch out Thursday night that nobody is walking in the hall and puts
water for 12 hours on the court. Of course, it is important that you have people who like
each other on the team. That is very important, but on the other hand, it is as important
if that you have good players who perform well under pressure and I guess the Americans
have both. But watch out with that water. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT