IBM/ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 14, 1995
Boris Becker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Did you notice, Boris, behind the court a guy getting very excited waiving his jacket like a matador?
 
BORIS BECKER: I did notice him and it did bother me a little bit because every time -- well, he knew tennis a little bit because every time he stood up, there was a major point and -- but the problem, was he was right behind Wayne and I could see him all the time.  When Wayne was starting to toss, I saw his hands waiving around and it was very hard to concentrate and actually my father got up and calmed him down a little bit. 
 

Q.  Did you make a sign to your dad to do that or he just did?
 
BORIS BECKER: He knows me now 28 years so he knows now when I'm pissed off. 
 

Q.  It was on your eighteenth?
 
BORIS BECKER:  That is 17 too many.  But I have to give Wayne credit.  Every time, especially on  the service game when he was down 5-6, he came up every time with a great first serve.  I basically didn't have a shot at it, and in the tiebreaker I was up 6-2; then I missed my first serve and hit a winner off my second serve, so he really took all his chances when he was on and they were going in all the time until basically the last point when he missed the second serving -- when he missed the return off my second serve, but I had a problem, really, when he was down, he started going for his shots and they were going in. 
 
Q.  (Inaudible).
 
BORIS BECKER:  The problem was Wayne Ferreira.  He came out hitting winners all over the place.  I didn't have a chance in the first half an hour.  I was fighting my heart out to win four games. He should have won 6-1, 6-2 that first set.  It was because of his playing and then he played a very loose game in the beginning of the second set and he let me back into the match basically.  Once I was a break up, I felt confident.  I felt that the match is going to turnaround and in that third set, you know, I didn't have many chances to break him nor had he.  And only at the end I was trying to take advantage of his second serve, off his shorter ball, I had to work extremely hard to get my chances.  
   
 
Q.  (Inaudible).
 
BORIS BECKER:  Wayne Ferreira on a good day is very tough to beat and he was on today and I had to work very hard for that victory.  And I am very happy. I have won my first Round Robin match and it doesn't matter how at the end. 
   
 
Q.  (Inaudible).
 
BORIS BECKER:  Always I would say they are extremely well.  (german fans).  Not only do they support me, but they behave for the other players playing well as well, so it is not only for one side, and that is what is so exceptional with that crowd. They know when to support me very much.  They know when I have trouble, but they are not trying to bother the other player in the meantime, and that is what makes it so special for everybody. 
   
 
Q.  (Inaudible).
 
BORIS BECKER:  Well, from this day on I have 50% chance.        End of FastScripts..... 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT