U.S. OPEN
September 6, 1995
Boris Becker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  How tough a match was it?

BORIS BECKER:   Well, extremely tough.  The fourth set was as tough of a set as you can get.  I still can't believe how many chances I had and didn't take one apart from the first game of the fourth set when I broke him.  But just didn't seem to end, something always would come up.  Something always happened.  When I had my chances 15-30, breakpoints and, you know, thanks God, I kept my cool.  I kept holding my serve.  So at least I gave myself a chance every time, but it was very hard to stay calm out there.


Q.  Boris, you had in the tiebreak in the fourth set you failed to put into play three consecutive services from Patrick; were those serves tougher than they looked from where we were sitting or just --

BORIS BECKER:   Unfortunately not.  I failed to put returns in the whole first set when it mattered.  It was just the same pattern in the  tiebreak.  I had the big lead 5-2.  He missed his first serve twice, and I just wasn't able to put it in.  It wasn't even a question of nerves, so I just -- you know, I have to go back and think about why, why I could play well until 5-2, until the breakpoints, just didn't seem to hit it in.


Q.  The chip approach that went long in the tiebreak, is that a shot that you make a lot?

BORIS BECKER:   Yeah, I know.


Q.  Boris, you played a lot of especially big matches here; elsewhere; you played one against Patrick's brother at a Davis Cup match.  Can you put into perspective this versus some of those matches here?

BORIS BECKER:   I think that was one of the best, I would say, top five ever at the U.S. Open playing against Patrick McEnroe.  Unfortunately, never had a chance to play John here at the Open, but his younger brother gave me more than a handful, and I am just very happy to have come through, and how the whole match went.  Every set was close.  Every set was entertaining, and the crowd gave both of us a standing ovation almost after each point in the fourth set, and I don't know whether that has happened many times at  the Open.  I am not from New York, but the crowd also supported me very much.  Just -- I was very proud of the fact that I was a part of such a match here.


Q.  After Wimbledon, you had some candid remarks to make about Andre Agassi; that I think you referred to may not be precisely the words "special treatment"  --

BORIS BECKER:   I wasn't talking about him personally.  It was about --
Â  

Q.  I understand.

BORIS BECKER:   -- his company more than about him.


Q.  Just before the Open, Andre, I think made it clear that those remarks have not sat well with him and wondered whether or not you regretted making them or whether you two have talked about it since?

BORIS BECKER:   I thought I had a point and I still think I have a point.  I don't talk about Andre Agassi personally or other players personally.  I talk about, you know, his company and how powerful it is and, how powerful of a role he plays, unfortunately, in major championships that is all I said.  And I think I have a point there - if you look back about -- the past 12 months - but that nothing personal against Andre or against Pete Sampras, you know, they are fortunate  enough to have such a strong company behind them who supports them so good, you know, and that is all I said.  So if he felt that I said something bad about him, then that was not the thing I wanted to bring out.  It was never against him personally.  I have never had a bad time with him personally. Unfortunately, he has beat me five and a half years pretty badly, but apart from that, I never said any bad word about Andre Agassi.


Q.  How about playing him now and after all the talk you have answered every single day, you have been hearing questions about Sampras and Agassi and now, you get to play one of them.  Can you describe the matchup against Agassi?

BORIS BECKER:   So far it is not Agassi yet.


Q.  If you get the opportunity to play him.

BORIS BECKER:   Well, he has a tough opponent tonight with Petr Korda and that should be a very entertaining match.  I, you know, can't understand all the promotion that is going of America's Grand Slam and Pete and Andre happen to come from this country and I understand that you support them very much and if we are back in Germany, the support is a little bit on my  side than on the Americans, but I think in general, it is good for tennis that you have players like Andre or Pete who play great tennis, you know, who have styles which make many players, many people at home trying to see the matches on television.  It is very good promotion for a sport.  On my match on Saturday I hope I am a part again of a great match for tennis and hopefully the audience and spectators here in the stands enjoy it very much.


Q.  What would a matchup with Agassi hinge on? What are the keys if you do face Agassi to your success against him?

BORIS BECKER:   I know that I have to play my best tennis to have a chance against Andre, especially on a hard court.  I was quite satisfied with my serving today, but I even have to serve better in Saturday's match and, you know, risk a lot, go for my shots and try to stay as aggressive as I have been in the last five matches.


Q.  Boris, from an emotional standpoint do you come out of this match going into the semis thinking positively that you survived or thinking negatively about the things that didn't go right?

BORIS BECKER:   No.  Once you made a last point in a quarterfinal of U.S. Open it is only  positive.  I don't really care how I win matches, as long as I win them.  And, you know, there were great moments in that match for me, of course like in any match, there were moments when I should have played better, but I have another two days off which is going to suit me very well.  It was a very exhausting tennis match, but until Saturday, I should be back in shape and I should be back with my concentration and hopefully give my opponent a good match.


Q.  Do you think that Agassi cracked at Wimbledon when he was up two breaks on grass?

BORIS BECKER:   What do I think, did he cracked?


Q.  Mentally, do you think you broke him down or he cracked?

BORIS BECKER:   You have to ask Andre that. I just tried my heart out there.  I am the type of player who never gives up; who always sees at least a small chance to win tennis matches and that gave me over my career many victories and wins and I had a very, very good comeback at Wimbledon.  Why it happened, you have to ask Andre, I don't know why.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT