U.S. OPEN
September 4, 1995
Boris Becker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Boris, you recall last week that a couple years ago people were talking about you
were over the hill. It was a matter of refocusing, rededicating yourself to the game. Can
you talk a little bit about what the key was for that refocusing on your part and are you
feeling younger everyday?

BORIS BECKER: No.

Q. "No," to all of it?

BORIS BECKER: You know, the secret with a long career in general, in sports -- if you
want to stick around very long and enjoy your sport, you got to somehow squeeze in a life
after, off the tennis court. In my case, I found a woman and we started a family all that.
And that has taken away a little bit from tennis for six months, sometimes up to a year,
but it is very important for me, anyway, to do that in order to have a base, and then that
allows me to continue playing tennis at the highest level. If I wouldn't have started
that, let us say, two, three years ago, I don't think I would still be playing tennis,
because tennis, it is not the most important thing in my life. It is my wife and my son.

Q. So how you found a way to balance that in the last year?

BORIS BECKER: Yeah, the last two years. That is the secret about it. If you want to
have a long career, you have to have both in my opinion.

Q. Was there a point when you were so miserable because your ranking had fallen, that
you decided that it was time to --

BORIS BECKER: No, never. I mean, I basically knew why I was playing bad. But at that
moment I didn't care so much because I spent more time trying to chase my wife; not the
tennis ball.

Q. Are you at the top of your game right now?

BORIS BECKER: On a hard court, yes, I am.

Q. Boris, are you tired of everybody talking about Agassi and Sampras?

BORIS BECKER: No, just keep doing. That is fine with me.

Q. Is that good for you to kind of move your way through the draw without all the
attention focused on you?

BORIS BECKER: The attention all the time is on me as well. There are periods when there
is more on Andre or on Pete, or on Thomas Muster or on a couple of others who are playing
well at the particular time, but I am in the top of tennis right now; almost ten years,
almost more than that, so the attention is always there and the pressure is always there.

Q. Boris, in the beginning of the third set you played like -- you hit a ball and he
didn't answer the call?

BORIS BECKER: Yeah.

Q. Why did you do it?

BORIS BECKER: Well, he didn't want to play anymore at 40-Love, so I served underhand
and I thought I won the game, but then Marc didn't react nor the umpire, so I had to serve
all over again; of course, I made a doublefault.

Q. Have you done it before?

BORIS BECKER: Yes. I mean, the doublefault.

Q. Boris, you told USA Network recently something that I found interesting. You said in
many ways, humankind likes the easy way. If you don't mind, would you take a moment to
explain what you meant by that comment?

BORIS BECKER: I prefer to talk about the tournament or the match in itself. But apart
from that, I don't really talk about any other things. I am sorry.

Q. Boris, when you say you are on the top your game on a hard court game, what is
working, I mean, everybody knows the serve, but it has got to be more than that out there
for you?

BORIS BECKER: Surface is not always the serve. There are many different ways of serving
on hard court. Depends on what score; the different serves on each score and I am
producing that very well right now and that I am closing in at the net and I don't make
many, you know, easy mistakes, many unforced errors; I am risking sometimes on the back,
with my forehand, but that is, you know, the way I play. I happen to miss some, but that
is what keeps the opponent always on his toes. But I am playing the right way. I am
aggressive all the time. I don't have a same pattern all the time. And that is what giving
the opponents trouble.

Q. Do you feel there have been times throughout your history of this tournament where
you have not been aggressive enough?

BORIS BECKER: Oh, absolutely. And I paid the price. 

Q. You have been on them, obviously, for years, but are hardcourts physically the
toughest?

BORIS BECKER: Oh, by far.

Q. What can you do about --

BORIS BECKER: Well, practice, unfortunately. That is the secret. You have to go out
there, play your hours in practice; go in the gym; go running; do really much more than on
any other surface because every shot here basically hurts. You have to bend your knees. It
goes into the hips. It goes -- your feet hurt after matches, so you really have to be in
excellent physical shape.

Q. Would you say it's an unhealthy surface?

BORIS BECKER: From all the four, it is the most unhealthy.

Q. The fact that it seems to be a little slower in recent years, here at least, that is
what I am told, that kind of makes it harder on a person like yourself; not only are you
older, but your style?

BORIS BECKER: Obviously. A slow hard court is suiting more the baseliners, or, you
know, the people who counterpunch more. And the ones who always try to approach, try to
serve and volley, they have to think a little bit more on that surface; how to play and
even that doesn't help sometimes. 

Q. Boris, can you discuss your coaching situation, I understand you are not being
coached by Bollettieri anymore?

BORIS BECKER: Yes, there is no --

Q. Why was that?

BORIS BECKER: I covered that issue already a week ago. I don't want to go back to that.
I am working here with Mike DePalmer who has been already with me for over a year when he
was working with
Nick Bollettieri and me together. And it seems to be doing, you know, doing fine, and
-- but there is no definite decision yet what is going to be for the future.

Q. Boris, last year was the upset Open; most of the top seeds didn't make it to the
quarterfinals; whereas, this year, it's seems to be staying much more true to form. Is
that just one of those flukes that happen or is there a reason that why more of the top
players are in the top form at this time this year?

BORIS BECKER: Unfortunately, there are no certain rules which you might apply to every
Grand Slam. You have Grand Slams where the draw is just so tough for the top players and,
you know, in a 128 draw I would say there are many, many good players not seeded and the
chance of hitting with somebody good early is there. This year maybe the draws weren't as
tough for the top players early on. Maybe the top players had been playing better early on
- I don't really know why.

Q. Boris, is your mental approach to this tournament the same has it has always been?
Is the hunger the same as it has been six, seven years ago?

BORIS BECKER: It varies, as I explained before. I am not every time feeling that I am,
you know, that tennis is very important to me or that I am, you know, giving it all I have
got in the weeks before in preparation and so on, but I felt this year that, especially
after having such a good tournament in Wimbledon, I felt like I needed a couple of weeks
off, but then my mind was set for the U.S. Open. I came early to America. I played few
hard court tournaments just to prepare, but my mind was always set on the Open which
wasn't all the time in the past.

Q. When was the last time you felt this content with your game?

BORIS BECKER: I should think before I am thinking since 1990 I haven't been into the
quarterfinal of the Open, so a few years, I was a bit unlucky in the round of 16. I had a
tough one with Ivan Lendl a few years back, five-setter; then Magnus Larsson I had a tough
match two years ago, so, you know, I came through -- unfortunately, if you have a very
good and healthy approach towards the game, that doesn't necessarily mean right away that
you have good results, but, you know, I was fortunate enough to have a decent draw and do
the best out of it.

Q. Marc Rosset says he thinks you need to play even better than you did today to win
this tournament, to beat Agassi and Sampras. Do you feel the same way?

BORIS BECKER: You know, of course, there are always -- there is always room for
improvement, but I am -- in the match, for example, today, first serve was very important
because on breakpoints he kept serving huge and I couldn't really do much on the
breakpoints so once I had the tiebreak and the break up, I sort of cruised more or less. I
didn't give it all out, what I had. And, you know, so it depends always against who you
play and especially with me, I don't always play my best, you know, it happens that when I
am leading and I am a break up, I am sort of concentrating on my serve and don't want to
spend too much more out there. You know too much, much more time. But overall, I didn't
think I played bad. Whenever I felt like I needed to jump up a level, I was able to do
that and I had good balls. 

Q. Prospect of possibly having to play Andre and Pete to win this title. Do you look
forward to that? Is that part of your makeup?

BORIS BECKER: For me it is -- there is still another match which is quarterfinal. I am
too long in this game to overlook quarterfinal of the U.S. Open.

Q. But do you always hope for the best player possible in the next match to give you
the better challenge to help you to the next step or --

BORIS BECKER: To tell you the truth, you know, I don't really care whether they are
good or not. I have to go out there on Wednesday -- on Thursday; I have to play great
tennis to win and who is on the other side, I don't really care. I know what I have to do
and so be it.

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT