U.S. OPEN
September 2, 1995
Boris Becker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. What were you thinking when the breaks were going back and forth?

BORIS BECKER: Don't ask me that, please, right now. I was really trying to concentrate
just to hold serve once, and I wasn't able to do it. It hasn't happened to me in a long,
long time, that I was losing my serve four times in a row, and I broke his serve all the
time as well. Thanks God that it started to end in the third. It didn't for him. I kept
breaking him. I was able to hold that finally. 

Q. What was working better in that third set, besides your own serve, I mean, that you
were able to break him?

BORIS BECKER: No, I knew Jason is a very good player. He raised his level a little bit
in the second set, and I knew that the beginning of the third set is very important. I
knew that I had to raise my level as well. I really had to get going. I had to serve
better, and I was able to do it right away. I broke him right away a few times. I started
to pick up my serve, and then unfortunately, I didn't take my opportunities in the
beginning of the fourth set where I could have broken him as well and it would be much
easier ride, but Jason there raised his game again and we played a great fourth set.

Q. Have you ever been in that situation like that many breaks in one --

BORIS BECKER: Well, it is my, I think, U.S. Open No. 11, so I have been through many
situations before, believe me.

Q. I mean with both players, not just your serve, but both players, have you ever --

BORIS BECKER: Not that I remember right now. I mean, it was -- if somebody may remember
it, how many breaks there were in the row? 

Q. Seven. 

BORIS BECKER: Didn't feel like a man's match out there. 

Q. That is exactly what I was thinking. Boris, what is it like - you have gotten
through the first week, is that, you know, important now that you have gotten through it
even if you didn't play well, somewhere along the line that you have gotten through it;
does the tournament really start to begin for a player like you now? 

BORIS BECKER: Well, what was the impression that I didn't play well so far? 

Q. No, but I mean, you can play better, or --

BORIS BECKER: You always can play better, but I thought I played very well the first
three matches. I dropped one set. And, you know, last year I lost in the first round, so I
am already 300% better than that. And -- that is it, really. And Jason he is a very good
player. Especially last summer, he has been beating all the top players on the summer hard
court. So he can play on a slow hard court. I thought apart from set 2, I thought it was
very entertaining and very good match.

Q. Boris, despite the serving problems, you looked relaxed. Are you putting less
pressure on yourself or feeling less pressure or is it state of mind at the moment?

BORIS BECKER: I feel very good about my game right now. And I -- maybe I can fake it
better these days than I used to. Of course, I have my ups-and-downs in a match, but I am
able to cover it and keep it inside. So you may get the impression that everything is a
very smooth ride for me in the afternoon there. 

Q. I asked him if your game is on, if you could be right in it with anybody else,
Agassi, Sampras. He said it all depended on your serve, but that basically he thought that
was the case; that if your serve is on, that you can have the title. Do you think those
are your chances?

BORIS BECKER: First of all, I really don't understand the question that you put to
Jason.

Q. I asked him if your game is at your best, does he think you have as good as a shot
as anybody here?

BORIS BECKER: I mean, I have been playing 11 years of tennis. I mean, I have won --

Q. I meant, right now, like the way Agassi is playing; the way Sampras is playing; the
way you are playing, right now. He sort of put a lot of it on your serve.

BORIS BECKER: Of course, I mean, that is most important part of my game. But, you know,
if you see -- that is my top weapon, but if you see other top players have one top weapon,
if that is gone, you are not as good a player anymore. In my case, obviously, it is the
serve; especially on a hard court like that, when it is not that fast, there are many,
many more aspects in the game, and I think I am moving pretty good right now, and my
forehand is good right now. It takes a bit of pressure off my first serve, so, you know, I
feel like I am playing really good tennis right now. 

Q. How do you feel about the fan support? They seem to be really behind you out there a
few times. 

BORIS BECKER: Yeah, they have been. They enjoy when I am doing my thing out there. And
I am trying to give them as much back as they give to me, and, you know, it has been going
very well this week - our relationship. 

Q. Boris, is it useful to you or helpful to you all the attention that is being paid to
the Agassi/Sampras rivalry, is that taking any attention away from you and is that useful,
less pressure; anything?

BORIS BECKER: Well, it has been a story all year. So I have kind of gotten used to it,
but, you know, it put so much more pressure on them, you know,. And as we saw the other
day with Andre and Corretja, if you are not up to par, there are many guys in this draw
who can play tennis too. And Pete and Andre know that, and it is just so much more added
pressure to them. And I mean, I am just very happy the way it is going right now. 

Q. Do you think then that is exaggerated that the women's field has more people who are
legitimate contenders for the Championship here?

BORIS BECKER: Well, you know, it's the problem of reporting. If you talk about Andre
and Pete all the time, obviously, you know, there are many more out there who can win the
men's Championship and, you know, you have -- in women's field you have obviously Steffi
and then you have Monica and, you know, you have also a few who have a chance to win it.
But it depends on the reporting. If you report only about two guys, you know, the crowd
obviously thinks about only two guys. So, you know, it is more up to you than up to us. 

Q. You mentioned earlier that it might not seem as smooth or it may appear more smooth
on the outside than it is maybe on the inside as you are playing. In the past, let us say,
last year or two, are there moments of doubt internally that I wondered if I can get back
to the very top of my game?

BORIS BECKER: Unfortunately, there are always moments of doubt, but I still -- I still
feel nervous before big matches and I still have doubts along the line. But that makes it
so special than afterwards. It still gives me thrills and that means I am still in it 100%
with all my heart and soul, so that is a very good sign for me. If I wouldn't have that
anymore, I wouldn't care; then it is time to go.

Q. You made it to the Wimbledon final. Do you feel as good about your chances of
getting that further here as you did there?

BORIS BECKER: Obviously, grass is more suited to my game. It is the perfect surface for
me, but I have been able to hit pretty good balls on the hard court as well, and as I said
before, I played three pretty good matches and I feel like I am playing good tennis. My
serve could be a little bit better even though it picked up in the last two sets, and
sure, you always have a chance obviously in the tournament.

Q. If you play Andre in this draw, will Wimbledon be a mental help to you or do you
just look forward --

BORIS BECKER: If we are still happy to be in the tournament on Thursday night you can
ask us that. 

Q. In other situations if you have a big win like that, a dramatic win, do you find
that it helps your confidence or have you -- do you not dwell on past wins?

BORIS BECKER: It doesn't hurt. I mean--

Q. Is it something you draw on? Other players have talked about like actually feeling
more confident for months off one big win. Are you --

BORIS BECKER: Oh, I am -- absolutely. A win like that, it doesn't also happen
overnight. It is a result of months and months of working very hard out on the practice
court, and of course, you know it gives you very great self-belief and all the other
players know, even when he is down he still has a chance. It is good for both sides. 

Q. What do you anticipate this afternoon in the Agassi/Edberg match; do you anticipate
that being a long hard struggle?

BORIS BECKER: Actually, I practiced with Stefan yesterday and he beat me up pretty bad,
so if he plays that kind of tennis, he is in there for a good match, but on the other side
you are having Andre who is playing his best tennis of his life the last couple of months,
and, you know, he had a tough match couple of nights ago, so he may feel his legs a little
bit, but, you know, Andre is a great player and it's going to be very tough for Stefan to
win that match. 

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT