U.S. OPEN
August 30, 1995
Boris Becker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How do you feel about your game right now, Boris?

BORIS BECKER: Very good. I thought I played an excellent match tonight. I could have
made it a bit easier in the third set having a break already, but I played a very sloppy
game to lose my service game and then Carsten raised his level; I had to raise my level,
and it started to be a very good tennis match.

Q. Is your preparation for this Open any different than Opens in the past? Is there
anything unique about you at this time, this year?

BORIS BECKER: Actually I was -- I didn't play very much after Wimbledon. I was injured,
and I couldn't play for a couple weeks. I started very slow in Cincinatti; played a bit
better in New Haven. I am -- at this stage of the year, I am still very fresh, and I think
it shows out on the court, and I am eager to play that I haven't played much, meaning my
body, my mind is still very fresh and that is very good for me.

Q. Sneaking in is overstating it, but everyone is focusing on Sampras and Agassi. Do
you think it is a good situation for you?

BORIS BECKER: It is not really my problem, that everybody is talking about Andre and
Pete. That seems to be the story all year long. Obviously we are in the United States; you
have the top two players in the world coming from this country, so it is very normal, but
I think if you ask the players, you know, there are a few more out there than just those
two.

Q. Obviously, with what is going on here and now, but do you do a lot of reflecting on
different parts of your career; times when you were successful; times when you weren't
making it back or is that something that will happen after your career is over?

BORIS BECKER: No, I am already playing a few years after, let us say, a series is over,
let us say a couple of tournaments on the same surface; then you have a break; you are
trying to look back trying to see what you did wrong and see what you did good and try and
remember that for the next year. Yeah, I do that all the time.

Q. Boris, do you feel any sympathy towards Steffi Graf what she has had to go through
the past couple of months? What are your feelings about that?

BORIS BECKER: Well, since I am not really up-to-date, I have no right to comment on
that. I don't know how bad the situation is and so I don't think I have a right to
comment.

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT