VOLVO MONTE-CARLO OPEN
April 29, 1995
Boris Becker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Boris, are you playing the best clay court  tennis ever for you?  

BORIS BECKER: Well, this question seems to be  haunting me this week and I am very pleased with the  way I am playing.  I cannot compare myself to the years  of '89 or '91, but I am playing very good tennis on  clay for my standards.  


Q.  Given the situation with Thomas Muster, do  you see this as your best ever chance to finally get a  clay court title?  

BORIS BECKER: Well, unfortunately with  Thomas, you never know.  I only -- I expect him to play  tomorrow.  I expect him to be tired, but I played  singles and doubles all week too, and once you reach  the final on clay, you are tired.  I saw his match.  It  was a great way to finish for him; he put everything in  it; very gutsy performance.  As I said, I expect him  him to be ready tomorrow.  


Q.  When you saw Goran coming back one set all,  what did you feel you had to do to beat him in the  third?  

BORIS BECKER: The game he broke me, he hit  about 10 lines, so I said, you know, if he is going to  hit lines in order to break me, that is just too good,  and I kept my concentration and I didn't really break  apart from the one incident where I got upset with the  dog.  Nobody could shut the dog down, like, he was  right behind me.  We had the long game.  He kept  barking and barking, but, you know, I had a chance at  5-3 in the second to come back; he gave me a second  serve and I missed it, but I was -- I didn't feel tight  in the match even though it was in the third set.  I  felt like I am going to get my chance and I did and I  took it.  


Q.  Boris, would it be fair to say you are being  more aggressive now serving on clay than you have been  sometime in the past?  

BORIS BECKER: Yeah, I have been.  That was  one of the things we worked on the last couple of  weeks.  For the last years, I improved my serve a lot  and I was trying to do the same thing on clay; even  though it is a little slower and you are going to get a  few more returns back, I was still trying to hit my  serve, even my second serve, hit a couple.  I am going  to hit a couple of doublefaults, but I am going to get  as many points as well.  That was one of the things we  worked on.  It has been going great.  


Q.  Boris, how do you feel going into this final  compared to the final in Rome last year?  

BORIS BECKER: I think I am playing better  tennis now, even though I had strong opponents in that  tournament and I beat Goran in the semifinal.  I feel  like I am playing better tennis right now.  I am  serving better and my physique -- I am in better shape  altogether, so -- and the opponent is not Pete Sampras  who is playing like in the year 2000 somebody will  play.  So all those circumstances are not the same and  I am glad.  


Q.  You won the junior tournament here what year;  what year was it?  

BORIS BECKER: '84, and the doubles in '92.  


Q.  How important has it become to you to win a  title on clay?  

BORIS BECKER: It was always important.  It is  one of the few things I haven't achieved and I came  close a few times, but I didn't manage to win one; that  is all.  Before this clay court season started, we sat  down and we realized one of the goals for this year is  doing very well on clay, and if possible, maybe winning  a title.  And I also said I didn't want to go to a  small tournament somewhere around the world to chase  it.  I want to play at a great tournament and I want to  play good there and I want to win it if I can, so that  was one of the goals set for this year.  


Q.  Do you think that you can maintain this kind  of level for the French Open?  

BORIS BECKER:  We will see.  I did it before  and I haven't past 30 yet, so I am still okay.  We will  see.  I am going to try.  


Q.  If Thomas Muster has to not play, if he is  not playing; if he is forfeited, would you be  frustrated?  

BORIS BECKER: Well, you can ask me that  Sunday night.    


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT