VOLVO MONTE-CARLO OPEN
April 28, 1995
Boris Becker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Will you say you are as happy with your game  today as yesterday?  

BORIS BECKER: It was a different kind of  game.  You cannot compare the two matches.  I had to  play -- I mean, I still had to play my game which is,  you know, very aggressive and serving big many times.  But, yeah, I was obviously pleased to beat him in  straight sets.  


Q.  You seemed to have a good eye for the return  today.  

BORIS BECKER: Well, in the first set.  In the second set, he hit many lines on his  first serve so I couldn't do much until 4-All when I  had my first breakpoint.  


Q.  What is your feeling to play Ivanisevic; you  had pretty good matches with him in the past?  

BORIS BECKER: Yeah, unfortunately I lost  some, but we didn't play so many times on clay yet.  I  remember Rome one year and Paris one year.  He had  three tough matches this week, already a good effort for him after a knee operation to come back like that.  And he seems to be playing well and he seems to be in  good form.  


Q.  What specific problems do you think Goran  will cause you?  

BORIS BECKER: Well, unfortunately, he has got  one of the biggest serves in the game.  It is giving  everybody a lot of problems.  Even though it is clay,  it is a still a big weapon and I have to make sure that  I am able to hold my serve and take those few  opportunities I may have.  


Q.  I have been told that one of your problems on  the clay was to lose a lot of energy during the  matches.  Here, you played 56, 52 minutes, one hour; is  it one of your goals to spare some energy?  

BORIS BECKER: I don't think that was a  problem in the past.  With my kind of game, you never  play that long, you know, if it is clay or if it is  another surface unless we have a real battle and it is  a long, long match altogether.  But with my kind of  game, you never have the long points and the long  rallies, usually.  


Q.  Boris, can you compare the way you are  playing now with the two other times you made the  finals?  Is this still basically the same or do you feel you had a better run the other two times?  

BORIS BECKER: You are talking about the years  of '89 and '91, I guess, and in order to be still in  the top five in the world I had to improve as a tennis  player each year.  And I am playing better now than I  have been then; otherwise I wouldn't be still around.  


Q.  Are you as confident as ever or is there a  difference in confidence that you feel; comparing it to  the previous years on clay, I mean?  

BORIS BECKER: I do feel good about myself  right now, tenniswise.  I have been playing real good  tennis on all the aspects of the game.  And I don't  want to -- and I can't compare to the past how I felt  then because it is too long ago and I was a different  player and a different person.  I just feel very good  in '95 about my tennis game.  


Q.  Do you put that feeling of confidence, that  "feel good" as you say, do you put that down to  anything specific this year?  

BORIS BECKER: It doesn't happen overnight.  I  feel for the past 12 months I have been playing really  good tennis; each month, basically, a tournament final  or a tournament win and that helps a lot, your  confidence and your selfbelief and -- but the thing is  you have to keep trying hard and, you know, and don't be happy with one win.  You have to continue.  You have  to work harder the next time and you have to want to  play better the next time.  That is the secret to go  forward.    


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT