INTERNATIONAL TENNIS HALL OF FAME
February 21, 2003
Boris Becker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TONY TRABERT:  I want to thank all of you for joining us this morning.  As I think you all know this year the International Tennis Hall of Fame is proud to induct four individuals, Nancy Richey of the United States, Francoise Durr of France, master players, Brian Tobin of Australia will be inducted for his contributions to tennis, and the one and only Boris Becker that we have on the line with us now.  Just to refresh your memory, if you don't have it in front of you, Boris was the youngest male to win at Wimbledon, he was 17 years, seven months old.  He was the first German champion and the first unseeded player to win at Wimbledon.  He called Wimbledon his home, and this is why:  he reached the finals seven times in 10 years, between 1985 and 1995.  In all, he captured six Grand Slam singles titles, two Australian Opens, three Wimbledon Championships and the US Open.  He was ranked in the Top 10 11 times, and his career record is 49 singles titles and 15 doubles titles.  He also played Davis Cup for Germany, led his country to victory in 1988 and 1989.  We are particularly happy to have Boris on the line now.  Boris, I'll start things off by just asking your initial thoughts about the induction into the International Tennis Hall of Fame. 

BORIS BECKER:  Thanks, Tony, for your introduction.  I wish you would never stop because they were beautiful memories.  No, I was very, very honored when I heard a couple weeks ago.  Obviously, tennis was my life and is still very much a part of my life.  To be among the greatest of our sport, my heroes, is a very, very big honor for me. 

TONY TRABERT:  We'll open it up to questions for Boris. 


Q.  Was there a match or a moment earlier in your career that made you realize that you had the potential not just to be a good player but to be an all-time great player?  Some of the greatest recent champions like Borg, McEnroe, they showed greatness from a very early age.  I wondered if you think that quality is inherent in players or if it's something you can develop like maybe Lendl developed later?

BORIS BECKER:  Well, to answer your first question, my first Wimbledon was as big a surprise to me as to the whole world.  I was quite in a state of shock.  Only until the year later when I confirmed it in '86 by winning it again, I knew that I was in the sport for good and I'm a good tennis player.  So I think the Wimbledon victory in '86 was the vital point I needed to confirm mostly to myself that I'm in a business and hopefully for a successful time.  Your second question, probably, yes, because tennis has a lot to do with your character and your poise, the way you keep your nerves under pressure.  That is something that's not about the forehand or the backhand or the serve.  You mentioned the likes of McEnroe and Connors, Borg.  They were all very, very special individuals, with all their different personalities.  They had one thing in common:  they were not afraid of winning.  I think that's instilled within you. 

Q.  What are you doing with your life now most of the time?  What are you excited about now after tennis?

BORIS BECKER:  As I said, it's still part of my life.  I'm part of the Senior tour for a few events, I have a charity event.  I'm in business, managing business.  Actually from this year on, my company, we represent and manage the Hamburg tournament, which is a Super 9 event, for the next couple years.  That's a major stepping stone we have in the month of May.  I'm keeping very busy. 

Q.  When we think of your career, we think your being the youngest at Wimbledon, the other five Grand Slam titles, but was there a moment that was not one of those that you pick out as particularly memorable that we might not think of?

BORIS BECKER:  Tennis-wise? 

Q.  Tennis-wise and life-wise. 

BORIS BECKER:  Let's stick with tennis.  Probably looking back, not winning a major championship on clay is something I regret.  I wish it wouldn't have happened.  I had match points in Monte-Carlo.  I was in the final a few times -- semifinals a few times at the French Open, but I was never actually able to win a major championship.  Being raised on a clay court, that's a bit of a contradiction, but that's probably my big regret I have in tennis. 

Q.  How about any special moments that wouldn't be one of the bigger ones, something that happened on the court? 

BORIS BECKER:  No. 

Q.  When you talked about the special things, when you talked about the young players today, can you see those special factors that you know this person is going to be a champion?  In particular, I'm asking you about like an Andy Roddick. 

BORIS BECKER:  I think that there is something that veterans or experienced players see in young players.  That's not necessarily the forehand or the backhand; it's the attitude, it's the charisma, it's the personality.  There are a number of young players out there, including Andy Roddick, who would have all those ingredients.  The second question is whether they're able to fulfill them, whether they're able to accomplish all that.  That's another book, though. 

Q.  Do you get as much fulfillment out of the Senior tour when you're playing these days on the court or it doesn't compare?

BORIS BECKER:  It doesn't compare.  I don't think we're trying to compare.  It's just something that keeps us fit, that keeps us among our former competitors and now friends.  Tony can probably agree with this.  It's good to be with your old boys from time to time.  We did spend 15 years together.  Unfortunately, we don't see each other much anymore.  Now and then through tennis we still see each other, and that's good.

Q.  Do you find you get along better these days?

BORIS BECKER:  Much better.  Imagine McEnroe and me ten years ago, now we're almost best buddies (laughter). 

Q.  Why is it that today's non-American stars, like Hewitt and Kuerten, athletic and charismatic, don't catch the public's attention?

BORIS BECKER:  I think Lleyton Hewitt is a huge star, especially in Australia, but all around the sports world.  The guy is still only 21, 22.  I think Kuerten in the whole South America is also a big star.  I don't know, it's something for other people to answer.  Wimbledon was a special place, and the way I played, coming from Germany, all that, the youngest player, made it a bit different, maybe more special.  On the other hand, I think Lleyton or Gustavo, they have a big following around the world.  I don't think that's a problem.

Q.  Now that the tax thing and other personal issues are behind you, how does that feel?  Are they behind you?

BORIS BECKER:  Oh, yeah, yeah.  Well, I'd rather at this point stick to tennis.  All in all, it does feel good to leave it all behind, and now I concentrate on the good things in life. 

Q.  Was the tax thing part of why you retired early? 

BORIS BECKER:  In this interview, I don't want to talk about that. 

TONY TRABERT:  Let's try to keep it to tennis, gentlemen. 


Q.  You're obviously most noted for your serve.  Can you say a little bit how you developed such a big serve at such an early age?

BORIS BECKER:  Well, it had something to do with my trainer and coach, now famous guy, Ion Tiriac, who had an early eye in seeing the talent that I had.  The different thing with my serve was my bend, that I was bending down so low.  I was able to get the power and to produce the power actually more through my legs than through my arms.  That's something we trained on early on.  That's why my legs were rather big, and that's why I was able to serve with that much power. 

Q.  Was there a shot besides your serve that you think maybe was a little bit  -- that people didn't notice it but you think you got more points out of it than most realized?

BORIS BECKER:  I wouldn't really say it's a stroke, but it has a lot more to do with the attitude.  I wasn't going to give in to anybody at no point.  I think that was as powerful as my serve. 

Q.  You and Michael Stich had quite a competition through the years trying to be the best player in Germany, things on and off the court.  How do you guys get along these days?  Do you think he has a chance to get into the Hall of Fame?

BORIS BECKER:  We do get along much better than when we were competitors.  We actually played last year a few charity matches together.  We filled all the stadiums here in Germany.  We're planning on doing that more and more.  I hope so.  He is a Wimbledon Champion.  He's a Davis Cup champion.  It would be good for German tennis to have two players in the Hall of Fame, but that's not up to me. 

Q.  Out of all your finals, you mentioned the 1986 final as the one you thought proved you belong.  Is that the one that stands out most memorable or is there another one that you thought maybe was the most exciting match, a match you won't ever forget if you live to be 150?

BORIS BECKER:  Well, there's one match in particular that stands out.  That's a Davis Cup match against McEnroe in Hartford.  That was in '87.  That was about whether America or Germany goes down to the second division.  That was probably the longest match I ever played, and the one with extreme emotion and extreme trials and tribulations.  I wouldn't like to compare my Grand Slams because each was very, very special and very difficult to win and to do.  Some finals were easier than others.  All in all, each holds a special place in my heart.  Obviously the four finals I lost at Wimbledon is something I also won't forget. 

Q.  Looking back through all the years, what players do you think were your biggest rivals?  Who gave you the most trouble?

BORIS BECKER:  In the mid '80s I came along when Lendl was just in his peak.  For a couple years he was my main rival.  He was 1 and I was 2.  Late '80s, Edberg came along, and he was basically my main rival throughout my whole career.  We had three consecutive Wimbledon finals against each other, a number of big tournament finals when either he or me were winning.  All in all, he was probably my main rival. 

Q.  In your observation of tennis today on the tour, what do you think is different? 

BORIS BECKER:  Well, a few things are different, but this is a whole hour by itself if I start.  I would say all in all, contrary to popular belief, I think we have great personalities out there, great players who are able to win as many as my colleagues now in the Hall of Fame.  I think tennis has more competitive sports out there, for example, football, basketball, baseball, other sports are competing with the general eye and general public, so therefore it's a bit difficult for tennis to be in the spotlight like it used to be in the '80s and '90s.  From an American point of view, obviously the way Andy Roddick is developing is great.  But the former players like McEnroe and Connors...  He has all the talent, but for the American public to really come more into the world of tennis, it needs a Roddick to win the US Open, for example, then it would be easier.

Q.  Do you think any player could dominate the tour the way McEnroe, Borg, yourself did in the past?

BORIS BECKER:  I think it's possible.  You see what Agassi is doing with the young age of 32, still winning Grand Slams.  On the other hand, Lleyton Hewitt the last two years was a very, very dominant figure, winning Wimbledon, the US Open, so forth.  You always have a handful of players, depending on their form, that are able to dominate.  That was in the '80s the case and that's now the case. 

Q.  Looking back, what would you have done differently in you are career?

BORIS BECKER:  Well, for my development as a player, winning Wimbledon at 17 was probably more difficult afterward because the bar was always Wimbledon winner at 17, so I couldn't really train in peace and quiet, I couldn't schedule my year around more highlights, because I had to defend every year.  At 17, 18, you're still developing very much as a player.  On the other hand, I wouldn't be probably included in the Hall of Fame if I wouldn't have won at 17, so it wasn't too bad after all. 

Q.  You won obviously that first major at Wimbledon in '85, winning your last in '96.  Was that in some ways your most satisfying accomplishment, to win majors so far apart?  You alluded to it, but was losing four of the seven Wimbledon finals your biggest disappointment in the sense that you were known as such a great big-match player, you loved the big occasion?

BORIS BECKER:  Yeah, obviously the secret when you're a bit older of having the respect amongst your peers is that you are successful over a certain amount of time.  To do that for 10, 12, 14 years, was the key.  Not only in '85 was I in a Grand Slam, but also in '96, as you pointed out.  That was for me personally satisfying that over 11 years I was one of the best in the world.  The second thing, yeah, I mean, I love that centre court.  My favorite place.  I love big matches.  I was able out of seven finals to only win three.  In retrospect, that's something I can't understand today even.  So there you go. 

Q.  It seems the men's game has been eclipsed in terms of popularity by the women's game on an international level.  The men's game has gained, from an economic standpoint, has gained a balance of power in Europe which outweighs the United States.  You have a lot of experience with the US.  Why do you think the game has taken the turn that it's taken? 

BORIS BECKER:  Talking from a male point of view, obviously, the fact that America has no No.  1 player is something they're not used to.  They're used to McEnroe, Connors, Lendl as an American later in his years.  That's why it was so popular in America.  From the ladies' point of view, the dominance of the Williams sisters, especially Serena, is something that's great, I personally like them a lot, but it's also something that the world hasn't seen before.  An African American playing powerful, winning four Slams in a row.  We in the men's game, we need something like that, something extraordinary, I don't know, where Andre Agassi would go on to win a Slam this year.  It's just something you can't compare with what achievement Serena Williams has done in the last 12 months.  It all depends on the performances of the performers.  The men's game is probably tougher in a sense that you have more top players who have a legitimate chance to win a Grand Slam.  On the other hand, they make more money.  All in all, I guess it's fair. 

Q.  Can you talk about how difficult it was to finally leave the men's tour, the decision process?  What was the toughest part of that?

BORIS BECKER:  To realize that you're probably never as good in any other field as you were on a tennis court.  That's something I dealt with and I had to make a decision.  It wasn't a decision I did at 65 years old, but at 32, 31.  Yes, I have another interests and I'm probably pretty good in them, but I'm never as good as I was as a tennis player.  For your own ego, that's sometimes tough to swallow. 

Q.  After you left the game, did you find you missed it tremendously or did you enjoy the quieter periods?

BORIS BECKER:  I stopped because I had enough.  I wasn't forced to retire.  The book was finished.  I did enjoy the year or two after when I didn't have the pressure and the hectic and the lifestyle anymore.  On the other hand, let's say five years later, I'm more busy than ever.  I'm traveling almost as much as I used to, obviously for different reasons.  I guess part of me is a Gypsy who likes to travel a lot, so that's going to stay with me. 

Q.  How do you see yourself positioning your own image in tennis on a long-term basis?  What do you see as your role in tennis in the future?

BORIS BECKER:  Well, I think I have to thank the tennis community a lot because it gave me all the opportunities and all the choices I have today.  Therefore, it's just logical for me to try to give back in one way or the other.  I'm very involved in the German Federation, and I believe eventually I could be involved in the International Tennis Federation in one way or the other.  It's something I've been talking with John McEnroe a lot about.  But, you know, I'm 35 years old.  Who knows what's going to happen in five or ten years, what my position is in the world of tennis.  But I'm a big fan, I'm a keen follower, I still play, I still have a relationship with the current world No.  1's, because they actually played when I still played in a way.  Let's see what life is throwing at me. 

Q.  You mentioned Andre Agassi, who is technically a contemporary of yours.  Are you a little surprised that he still has the desire to stay out there and play at the level he's playing?  You mentioned the Grand Slam in the big picture.  Do you think on the men's tour that would be something that one player would be capable to do?

BORIS BECKER:  Well, obviously Andre is the only player who actually has a chance this year. 

Q.  Even in the future. 

BORIS BECKER:  I think it's possible.  Obviously the last one was Laver.  There is a few years between then and now.  On the other hand, Pete won them all but Paris.  Andre has probably the potential today to win them all in one year.  To answer your first question, obviously he has the biggest motivation at home.  His wife was actually more successful than he is.  The poor guy is over dinner, "I won Wimbledon seven times, not just twice."  I guess that's the big reason why Andre is still very much on top of his game, because of his private life. 

Q.  Mentioning Steffi, you knew her pretty well, he keeps alluding to the fact that she's pissed where he put her in the position of playing mixed doubles.  Do you think she's really annoyed about that? 

BORIS BECKER:  I hope they play.  At the end of the day, they're first and foremost a couple and they will decide what's right for them.  If it means that they play the mixed doubles together, that will be great for everybody else. 

Q.  What have your conversations been like with John about the tour?

BORIS BECKER:  We obviously care a lot.  We love the tennis world one way or the other.  There are some changes that needs to be done.  We would have a few ideas.  We'd have to respect I think the international tennis community.  He speaks very much from an American point of view.  I speak very much from a European point of view.  It's interesting sometimes. 

Q.  Wayne Ferreira and some others are starting to try and develop an opposition group to the ATP.  What are your thoughts about that?

BORIS BECKER:  I think that's wrong.  I think the ATP Tour, the Association of Tennis Professionals, is very, very important, and they do a good job.  Like everybody, they also make mistakes here and there.  Together with the ITF, obviously, this is a group that very much helped tennis grow to where it is today.  Obviously, nobody is perfect.  I think a big of input from John and myself wouldn't hurt nobody.

Q.  Some of the tennis players are criticized for being narrow, not having thoughts about the world.  You were always known as one of the most thoughtful players.  What are your thoughts about what's going on now and the possibility of war breaking out?

BORIS BECKER:  It's a very, very scary situation right now.  I was impressed about all the peace demonstrations last Sunday throughout the world.  It just shows that everybody really speaks with the same mind.  We all are afraid.  Now, I'm no politician.  I don't know what's happening behind the scenes in the American position and the European position and Russian position.  I'm not that.  I'll saying all in all, we are aware of the situation, and it's a scary one. 

Q.  It's frightening to you?

BORIS BECKER:  Exactly, yeah.  I'm traveling a lot.  I'm a lot in America.  I'm a lot in the Far East.  I'm going to India in the spring.  I'm a lot in planes, hotels rooms and bars.  It's not the safest place anymore.

Q.  John McEnroe has said in the past with the racquet technology he could see serve and volley tennis becoming extinct.  Do you think we'll see serve-and-volleyers coming back?

BORIS BECKER:  There was a time, I would say around five or six years ago, seven years ago, when there was talk of all the big servers in the game, Ivanisevic, Krajicek, Sampras, so forth.  I think they slowed the game down all together with slower courts, heavier balls.  Now you have a phenomenon with too many baseliners.  I think the most fascinating match ever is a serve and volley players against a baseliner.  You should almost find a medium-pace court with a medium-pace ball so everybody would have a chance.  Right now obviously the baseliners are the strong force and they dominate the tennis scene.  That's not right. 

Q.  You and John played last year at the Open.  Do you ever consider playing senior events at a Grand Slam in the future?

BORIS BECKER:  I am playing a few senior events.  If that could be included in a Grand Slam, that would be better.  There was talk of whether we would put together a separate Grand Slam Senior Tournament at The Open.  I don't know whether that will take place.  I think it would be fun for everybody to see John, me and others still compete in some of the tournaments. 

TONY TRABERT:  Thank you, Boris.  Thank you, everyone, for being involved in this conference call.  We appreciate it.  The Hall of Fame induction ceremony will take place in Newport, Rhode Island, on July 12th, that's the Saturday following Wimbledon.  Boris, we look forward to having you there.  We thank everyone for being involved today. 

BORIS BECKER:  Me, too.  Thank you, everybody, for your patience.  See you then. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT