COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 8, 1994
Boris Becker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Boris, Goran said he thought that was  probably one of the best matches he ever played against  you.  Did you think the same the other way around?  

BORIS BECKER:  Well, he played excellent  today.  He really, from the first break on, from the  first point when he hit the backhand return down my  feet to the last point; the way he finished the match  with his great forehand pass, he played excellent.  


Q.  What about your own form; how do you think  you played yourself today?  

BORIS BECKER:  I didn't have a great timing  on my serve.  I gave him a chance to have a knock on  the ball on the returns and it is difficult when you  start each set with a break down; he sort of starts to  serve, and apart from one game, he didn't give me --  apart from two games, late in the second set, he didn't  give me any chance, really, to return back and to get  back into the match.  And he is the type of guy when he  is a break up, he just lets his left arm loose and he  serves aces, you know, on the whole court, and that is  really difficult to get back with him.  He broke me in  the first game of each set, and he just played off  after that, I sort of played catchup.  


Q.  Boris, in the past you have talked about how  nice it is to have the support of the crowd.  When you  are not playing that well; when you are getting beaten  rather badly, is it more of a hindrance to have that  burden of expectation of everybody around you?  

BORIS BECKER:  I think they were even more  surprised than I was how the match went, but, no, after  playing so many years in front of many, many people and  playing in front of the home crowd, I got used to the  fact that they expected me -- they expect me to do well  and to win.  But, you know, they know that you can have  bad days and they know that we have a sport where we  never know the outcome and, no, it doesn't affect me at  all.  


Q.  You said the other day, Boris, after your  first match you thought it played like a normal indoor  court.  Most of the other players have suggested it is  too quick.  

BORIS BECKER:  No, I was saying that a couple  of years ago we used to play on a supreme.  And  supreme, after the first couple of matches, it gets  quicker as it is being played more, and I was saying  that was a normal court how we used to play, but not  anymore, obviously.  


Q.  Would you like to see this tournament played  on a slower surface like they had in Frankfurt?  

BORIS BECKER:  In general, I think quick  surface suits my game, but that doesn't mean that I  cannot play on the slower.  I have showed in Frankfurt  and a couple of outdoor events over my career that I am  able to play also on the slower surface.  Against  Goran, I prefer to play on something slower where I can  play a bit more tennis.  But in general, you know, I --  with my serve, I can adapt to all the courts and, you  know, I don't really have a problem which court we are  playing.  Depends more against the opponents I am  playing.  


Q.  Boris, as the the year is now over for you,  can you just briefly sum up how you think '94 has  filled your expectations, and what are you expecting  from '95?  

BORIS BECKER:  Well, actually I am quite  disappointed how the year went.  I really was trying to  go for the No. 1 ranking at the beginning of the year.  (kiddingly)  Do you want me to go on?  I have said, obviously, many times now that  this year really was great.  I started the year being  two months out; having so many changes in my private  life; and also starting with Nick was a new experience  for me, and everybody was kind of open to any; and it  has turned out to be one of my greatest years, and I am  really proud of it.  


Q.  The year is over.  What about the preparation  for next year?  Christmas is coming.  The new year is  coming.  

BORIS BECKER:  I am not going to talk about  next year.  I am glad to have a break now and to end  this year peacefully.  


Q.  Nothing about next year?  

BORIS BECKER:  No.  


Q.  (interpreter not able to hear question)  

BORIS BECKER:  I had a bad beginning today.  Goran had a very good one; right in the first game.  Then I had my chances and opportunities at 2-1 in the  first set, three or four breakpoints, served well every  time.  I had a tiny chance, I thought, to make the  point, but then he started really to play tremendously  well which also means a lot of aces.  But otherwise  too, he played very well.  He came in and passed from  the baseline.  The situation was comparable in the  second set.  First serve -- he took my serve in the  first game and then he was great.  He was simply  tremendous, and I couldn't get back into the match and  find the shape I needed.  This was mostly due to him.  He was really excellent.  Didn't give me a chance to  get into the match again.  


Q.  We didn't really hear up in our booth.  What happened during this discussion?  

BORIS BECKER:  I suppose I made a mistake.  I  don't know exactly what happened.  


Q.  What about this video replay, does it disturb  you?  

BORIS BECKER:  Yes, it does, enormously  because I try and concentrate on the next point; try to  forget this one and then five seconds later the people  say "ooh" because they see the replay and it comes  again and it is twice as difficult to forget about that  point.  


Q.  What about the great shots through the legs?  

BORIS BECKER:  Well, I was surprised myself.  But unfortunately, it wasn't too frequent today.  


Q.  Something we felt was lacking was this  absolute determination.  You really didn't want to  escape defeat, we thought.  When did you really accept your defeat?  At  what point in time.  

BORIS BECKER:  Well, you are right.  I knew after the break in the second set at the beginning that  it was going to be tough, but I thought I had my  chance.  Only when he broke me for 4-1, I knew that it  was going to be terribly hard to win today.  


Q.  Well, he said he wasn't satisfied with the  linesmen today, the umpire?  

BORIS BECKER:  What about you?  I wasn't  enthusiastic about them either.  No, they all didn't do their job correctly  today.  


Q.  What can be changed?  

BORIS BECKER:  Well, this is what happens  sometimes.  I had a bad day.  Let them have theirs.  


Q.  Would you try and depict your emotional  shape, Boris?  You said "proud."  You said "happy."  What about you?  

BORIS BECKER:  Well, yes, I am proud.  I am  really proud of what I achieved during these twelve  months.  I didn't think last year that I was going to  come back the way I did.  I am one of the best tennis  players, again, in the world and I hope for the Grand  Slam tournaments of next year to be even better than I  was this year.  


Q.  How does one prepare?  There is going to be a  break within --  

BORIS BECKER:  I am going to play in Perth,  the Hopman Cup, 1st of January, it starts.  So I go  there the end of this year and have two weeks of  preparation for the Australian Open, three exhibitions  the week before and then I hope to do well in  Melbourne.  


Q.  Are you going to stay here this week, Boris,  to look at some of the matches?  

BORIS BECKER:  I don't know at this time; no  decision taking it.  


Q.  Are you going to stay in Munich?  

BORIS BECKER:  Well, isn't that a private  matter, isn't it?  


Q.  Will there be a Christmas tree?  

BORIS BECKER:  Well, let us wait and see.  


Q.  (Question about the Davis Cup.)  

BORIS BECKER:  Well, one or two decisions  have been made, but I am not supposed to talk about it.  But to wait another few days, really, I am not kidding.  


Q.  Thank you.  

BORIS BECKER:  Thank you.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT