ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 20, 1994
Boris Becker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Boris, do you remember another time when you  made five doublefaults in the same game, and how do you  explain what happened in that game?  
 
BORIS BECKER: Well, I do remember.  I played  many, many matches in my career and I had matches when  I had many doublefaults.  Unfortunately, I did that in  the second set while I was just playing really well.  I  can't really explain; probably a combination of  things.  I had extremely good first set.  I had a good  last couple of days and my level of concentration just  left me for two, three minutes.  I really -- I was  trying hard not even to risk the first serve, but for  five minutes I lost my touch completely and, you know,  since he is a true professional, he took the  opportunity and he broke me then.  But the match wasn't  lost there. The match was lost in the third set.   
 

Q.  Boris, was there a little panic going through  your head at that time.  Five minutes, you can't get  your serve in, did you start to panic?  
 
BORIS BECKER: No, I just -- for some reason I  lost my touch, you know, in that service game.  Everything until then was going very smooth.  Throughout the whole match I served great.  I risked a  lot on my second serves, so I expect some doublefaults,  but in that particular game I just hit five or six in  one game and it was a hard apple to swallow down.   
 

Q.  Any regrets about beating Edberg in that  third set now?  
 
BORIS BECKER: To tell you the truth, no.  I  am a professional.  I go out there to win; doesn't  matter who I play.  And I told you already then, that I  didn't go out there just to win one set, but to win the  whole match.  And Pete, you know, obviously came after  the match and thanked me again for beating Edberg on  Friday, but, you know, he is -- what can I tell you?  I  won four matches.  Was probably too much to ask to beat  the No. 1 player twice in a week.  It is something very  uncommon and unusual in a tournament, but, you know, I  produced great tennis all week long and even today I  played great. You know, I had set point in the third  set and he comes up with an ace and I had my chances  today to win.   
 

Q.  Is he on a different level, do you think,  Boris, when he is playing like he was towards the end  of the set --  
 
BORIS BECKER: I would say I caught up with  him over the past couple of months and I think Andre  did as well.  He was playing on a different level for  the first six months of the year and then through him  being injured, wasn't able to play in a couple of  months and we got a little bit better and we caught up  with him.  Obviously, in the match today, obviously,  you are in the final and you are two sets to one up and  you are up a break obviously that all lifts your game,  and I think anybody who is in that position just is  flying at that moment, and Pete was flying for the last  20 minutes of the match.  But all and all, he is not a  level better anymore than me or than two, three other  players.   
 

Q.  Really big comeback, Boris, this year.  I  heard you tell the guy from SAT1.  Could you expand a  little bit more on what fatherhood has meant to you and  how it affected your game?  
 
BORIS BECKER: It was really late of last year  where I couldn't produce any good tennis results  anymore and I said it all the time that I cannot  concentrate on the tennis anymore when my wife is  pregnant.  Once he was out, you know, everything was  nice and healthy, everything was well, I could again  refocus on my profession.  I got together with Nick  Bollettieri and we started to build up and each month  we had progress.  I improved my playing and I was very  pleased the way I played throughout the year.  It  wasn't just one particular week where I played great.  But I played all year long on a very good level and I  -- especially at the end, I played my best tennis of  the year and it is all in my opinion, due to finding a  base now; having a home where even after a tournament,  you know, after a tough loss like today, I can go home  and just other things seem to be more important, you  know, it doesn't bring me down anymore as it used to  and so that really helped myself to find a balance in  life.   
 

Q.  You say that you have had a consistent year,  but if you look at your results, it is from Los Angeles  and New Haven that it really -- the second half of the  year really took off for you.  Did anything happen  around that time of the summer to make you feel "I have  got it now?"  
 
BORIS BECKER: You kind of work every week and  you hope to improve and then, you know, I won my second  tournament of the year in Milan.  I won that, and I was  in the final of Rome and another couple of results, but  I wasn't playing as good yet, and all of a sudden in  Wimbledon, it started to change for me after reaching  the semifinal again and all of a sudden I just, you  know, reached another level which allowed me now to  reach, what was it, five -- six finals and winning  three tournaments and I was really playing excellent  tennis the past couple of months.   
 

Q.  Sampras says he has a goal to play better on  clay and he is going to play two more tournaments the  next year on clay and his goal is to win Roland  Garros.  Do you have a goal or not at this point?  
 
BORIS BECKER: Well, I am over that stage  already --   
 

Q.  That is why --  
 
BORIS BECKER: -- (cont'g) where he is right  now.  I said that three, four years ago that I am going  to play more clay and that my main goal left is the  French Open.  That is over.  But still, I don't see as  one particular goal.  I want to improve as a tennis  player again for next year.  I want to play well on all  different courts, in all -- especially in the Grand  Slams, I would like to do better than I have been this  year.  I am going to play hopefully all four if I am  not injured before, and so I really would like to start  where I left right now, which is on my peak and so I  cannot say one particular goal.  I want to altogether  improve as a tennis player and play the best players  every week and just be able to win big matches.   
 

Q.  How are you going to prepare for the  Australian Open; are you going to Florida to practice?  
 
BORIS BECKER: No.  Unfortunately the  Australian Open starts very early in January and -- but  I will go down there in time and play a couple of  exhibitions; I have one right the week before, where  Pete is also playing, but my year is not finished yet.  It is sort -- I play a few more exhibitions.  I play  the Grand Slam Cup as the last big tournament of the  year.  So I don't really have a big, big break between  now and the Australian Open, which is good for me.   
 

Q.  Boris, are you playing Hopman Cup?  
 
BORIS BECKER: I am planning to.   
 

Q.  Do you have a feeling for how many more years  you have left in you at the top?  
 
BORIS BECKER: If somebody would have asked me  at 17 if you would still be playing at 27, I would have  said no.  So it is really difficult to see so much  ahead.  At the beginning of the year I didn't know how  good I am going to get at the end of this year and I --  everything is dependent obviously on how much you win  and how much pleasure you still have and competition  and in practice or how much tougher it gets to work  everyday a couple of hours.  So, but I said before, I  want to reach 30 in my profession.  I want to be  playing, you know, at, say, three more years, but it  depends really how good I can play.  If I can be a  factor in major championships, then I'd love to play  until I am 40, so it really depends on what level I am  going to continue playing.   
 

Q.  Could you imagine your son would step in your  foot steps with tennis or are you saying now already it  is too hard?  
 
BORIS BECKER:  Well, it is not going to be  easy in the future, that is for sure.  I actually would  prefer him to play some basketball because I am a  bigger basketball fan than tennis.  And he has already  pretty big feet, so I figure he is going to be tall son  of a gun, you know.   
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT