ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 19, 1994
Boris Becker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  How much are you tired?  
 
BORIS BECKER: Well, I was feeling a bit  fresher, you know, five, six days ago, but that is what  you expect.  You have the toughest competition here of  all the players.  They are all champions and you are  supposed to feel tired after the semifinal, but I think  I will manage one more day.   
 

Q.  Were you surprised by the way he played the  first two sets?  
 
BORIS BECKER: Yes and no.  I saw his round robin matches and he  obviously won two matches.  He gave Andre a tough match  last night.  So I knew he is in excellent form.  But it  is different when you see it on the television than  when you play against him, and he really had a big  chance of coming out as the winner of the match.  He  had me down 15-40 at 4-All, he had another breakpoint  and pretty easy backhand passing shot where he usually  hits it a little harder, and he hit it a little bit  high and I was able to get my racket on it.  And that  was the big chance for him to win the match.   
 

Q.  Seemed to be having a short conversation with  Dana Loconto.  Was there a problem?  
 
BORIS BECKER: Well, I think all of us, all  the four players have a few talks, a few conversations  with the umpire concerning the people on the lines.  I  don't know why or for whatever reason, there are  supposed to be not only the best players here, but also  the best people on the line.  It didn't seem the case.  They had many, many bad calls on both sides in all of  the matches, and so we are both a little bit angry  about that and we just wanted to tell the umpire that  he maybe should check the lines a bit more; overrule  where there is really a mistake.  But then again, it is  difficult to please them all.  When the guy makes an  overrule, one player is going to be upset, so. . .  But  all in all, the linesmen haven't been the best this  week.   
 

Q.  Boris, was it your fighting spirit that  decided the second set, and in the third set your  skills?  
 
BORIS BECKER: Well, definitely, once you sat  down and you are facing many breakpoints in the second  set, you just somehow -- you are looking for air to  breathe.  You are looking for that little light at the  end of the tunnel.  You cannot really think at that  moment about skills or about tactics.  You just want to  survive.  And I fought very hard in the second set, and  I played better in the third set.   
 

Q.  Thoughts about your match against Pete  tomorrow.  
 
BORIS BECKER: One of the rare occasions where  I have to beat the No. 1 twice in one week to win a  whole championship, but that is the system.  And I,  again, have to raise my level of playing.  He is  playing a little bit better each match and it is going  to be a longer match, you know, with probably many ups  and downs, and I am in for a tough battle.   
 

Q.  How do you expect it to be different than  from your match on Wednesday; if at all?  
 
BORIS BECKER: I hope the outcome isn't that  different.  The match, itself, is going to be serve and  volley game, I would say, unless he is changing his  tactics overnight.  And from my point of view,  everybody knows how I am playing.  It is just a little  longer, meaning you can have a bad start or you can  have one bad set and you are still into the competition  which it is something I like very much.  But, you know,  Pete also likes best of five matches, so we are in  there for a very tough match for both players, yeah.  I would say the big difference, our first  match there was that on Wednesday he was supposed to  win tomorrow, I think we are on even stands and that is  the biggest difference.   
 

Q.  Boris, I just called back the newspaper and  they told me that some wires say that you received  death threats.  Is that true or -- I mean, is that real  or --  
 
BORIS BECKER: There have been some people  calling up this week, but unfortunately they have been  calling up many weeks in the year and it is just some  of the things which are not good about being in the  spotlight, but, you know, we have many people who are  guarding it not only me, but all the players, and we  should be fine by tomorrow.   
 

Q.  These calls didn't go directly to you,  Boris?  Your telephone calls?  
 
BORIS BECKER: I personally didn't talk to  anybody.  I don't know what he or she had exactly in  mind, I don't know.   
 

Q.  Boris, the crowd tomorrow should probably be  in your favor, I think.  Do you find it pressure playing in Germany or  an inspiration?  
 
BORIS BECKER: It is both.  It is a pressure  because the expectations are so high, they expect me to  perform well.  They expect me to make the last point.  But on the other hand, those expectations can lift my  spirits as well, and if the crowd wouldn't have  supported me not only today, but in the last couple of  tough matches, the outcome might have been different,  so once I am able to play good tennis, they really help  me a lot and I hope they do the same thing tomorrow  what they have been doing all week long.  But still  they were fair and it wasn't that they were trying to  bother my opponents.  They were just very much into the  whole match and very much also behind me.   
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT