ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 18, 1994
Boris Becker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Boris, particularly at 1-3 in the final set,  how much aware were you of the mathematical problems  out there today?  

BORIS BECKER:  Not too aware.  Actually, I  missed a couple of lessons in school and so... But I  knew that I had to win at least a set to be in the  semis.  But I really wanted to finish the group as the  No. 1, and even at 3-1 in the third I just tried.  I  thought I still have a chance, and fortunately, I could  break him right back.  


Q.  Were you aware that if you lost in three sets  Sampras was out?  

BORIS BECKER: Yeah, I was aware of that.  He  came before the match.  He came in my room in my locker  room and really, you know, wished me good luck.  


Q.  Do you do things like that?  Do you think of  things during the match?  

BORIS BECKER: In the changeover we have  those -- that space of time where you cannot only think  about the match, so you have many thoughts going  through your mind, and I did think about, you know, how  the last couple of days went in our group and how many  players still have a chance of qualifying for the  semifinal.  


Q.  Boris, who is your favorite opponent for the  semifinal?  

BORIS BECKER: What choices I got?  The one  choice, he is already gone, Spain.  The other two  choices are tough anyway.  Right now I am just glad to  be in the semifinal.  I finished my group as the best  player and I just have to, you know, play same kind of  tennis tomorrow in order to have a chance to win.  


Q.  Were you amazed about the level of his  returns, the first set especially?  

BORIS BECKER: Unfortunately, not only the  first set.  He gave me trouble throughout the whole  match.  He was playing excellent.  His returns were the  best of the players I played all week.  I saw his other  matches with Goran and with Pete and he was able to  break them too, so I knew that I am going to be in for  a tough match; that Stefan is in excellent form right  now.  I knew that he can break me once or twice in the  match.  


Q.  In the times over the last two years, where  you have struggled to find anything like your best  form, do you sometimes think or have you thought  Frankfurt is the tournament that I really can win  because of the crowd support and that you look forward  to days like this when you hit your best form?  

BORIS BECKER: I don't necessarily think that  I struggled for two years.  I had times when I did win  a tournament.  I had times when I did beat great  players and to the latter part of the question, I know  that through the atmosphere and the spectacle and being  in the ATP finals, I am able to play my best tennis and  I have done that in New York City where I reached the  final three times and I won it once, and also here, I  have been playing excellent in my three tries I had  here, four tries.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT