ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 16, 1994
Boris Becker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Boris, you are thirsty here and you were  thirsty on the court; is that right?  

BORIS BECKER:  Excuse me?  


Q.  You are thirsty here and you are thirsty on  the court.  

BORIS BECKER:  Well, you can say that, yeah.  


Q.  Boris, Pete just said that is the best you  have ever played against him.  Would you subscribe to that point of view.  

BORIS BECKER:  I don't know whether the best  ever, but it was definitely one of my best matches of  the year.  And I have been playing Pete since 1990, and  I had some good matches against him, but this was  definitely one of the best of the year for me.  


Q.  According to Pete you play indoors much  better than outdoors.  Do you agree with him?  

BORIS BECKER:  You know, I obviously like  indoors too, but, you know, we play -- out of 11 months  we just play two, three month indoors, and I have been  playing every year my four, five, six tournaments  indoors, but the rest are 15 outdoor tournaments.  And  my game is such that I am taking many chances and I am  hitting many balls very close to the line.  And  sometimes, outdoors, the balls are taken away with the  wind and the sun.  The angle is not the same, but still  I am -- I won a couple of Grand Slams which in my  opinion -- in my knowledge, I played outdoors.  So time  to time I am able to play decent tennis outdoors too.  


Q.  What is the most pleasing aspect of the way  you are playing now?  You are playing boldly and  aggressively; is it the sort of consistency in the way  you are able to sustain it?  

BORIS BECKER:  Yeah, that I am able to play  excellent tennis for a longer period.  I am playing the  way I should play, in my opinion, very aggressive;  always on the attack, I try to put a lot of pressure on  the other guy all the time.  And what is really  pleasing is that I was able to do that all year long  and it wasn't that all of a sudden I picked it up in  Stockholm and I won this summer in America; I won a  couple in the spring in Europe, so I was able to play  that kind of level, more or less, throughout the whole  year.  


Q.  At the same time you seem to be using the lob  effectively?  

BORIS BECKER:  Pete comes for the first  volley very close to the net, it is sometimes easy to  lob him than to pass him on the left or the right, and  I had a pretty good feel in my lob today and I used it.  


Q.  How long since you have had such a good  feeling generally about your game and the fact that you  can sustain it?  

BORIS BECKER:  Sometimes I wonder whether,  you know, you follow all the matches all year long  because I was really playing good tennis all year long  --  


Q.  Sorry, you misunderstood me.  You had a good spell this year, you had a  couple of years when it wasn't --  

BORIS BECKER:  That is right, in '92 and '93  I wasn't able to play that consistent over a long  period, that is right.  I would say '91 was the last year where I had  such a year where I was able to play against good  players all year long, and I was winning a couple of  times and, you know, it has been three years.  


Q.  Do you think you can play better than this?  

BORIS BECKER:  Well, the thing is that if you don't improve each year, you are going backwards.  And  in order to, you know, stay with the top guys these  days, I have to improve every year; I have to just get  stronger, hit harder, and be quicker every year to be  able to stay with the best players in the world.  


Q.  Do you think Pete played better than he did  in Stockholm?  

BORIS BECKER:  It was a different game in  Stockholm; much faster there, so the points were played  differently.  Today you really had to play not only  serving but also a lot of good volleying, a lot of good  returns, some rallies from the back.  And I thought I  played better today.  


Q.  Looking to the other results and today's  results, do you think you are the favorite here now?  

BORIS BECKER:  No.  I am in good form.  You  have many others who haven't even played yet like  Stefan Edberg.  He is playing tonight, and, you know,  you can never underestimate Pete Sampras.  He is No. 1  for a very good reason, because he is the best of all  of us, and it is always hard to play first rounds,  basically, after a tournament and he won a tournament  last week, but he is going to maybe have a bit more  luck tomorrow and, you know, you have Goran who just  barely lost to me yesterday and you have -- Andre  obviously played something under an hour yesterday, so  you have many players who have still lots of chances.  It is too early to say that, you know, that you have a  favorite or that other players are out.  


Q.  Just how much of a factor is it to play here  with the crowd, people near your home?  

BORIS BECKER:  It took me awhile to get used  to it.  It was so noisy yesterday I was sometimes  having a hard time understanding my own word and it was  a hard time just trying to focus on a particular ball I  was going to play.  So by today's match, I already  expected it to be very noisy and a lot of clapping  between points and it is definitely something which  makes me even more eager to play, it makes me just try  just a little bit harder because they support me so  much and they expect so much of me and I don't want  to -- I want them to have a very good feeling when they  go home at night that, I gave everything I had, and I  think they had pretty nice two days.  


Q.  Seems every time you play something special  happens here.  

BORIS BECKER:  It is -- well, because you  never -- they never know whether I win or not.  It is  such an open question all the time that it makes them a  bit nervous, I think, and I had tournaments here in  Germany where I lost early so really they want to come  early in the week just to see me for sure.  That is  maybe why they get so excited.  


Q.  Have you been working specifically on your  second serve which was so effective today?  

BORIS BECKER:  I have.  My game is attacking  and even though I can miss a first serve from time to  time, I still should be able to attack my serves and  really give the other player less time to pass me; less  time to react and gives me a better angle on the volley  and we have been working on that.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT