ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 15, 1994
Boris Becker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Boris the final set, the tiebreak,  extraordinary in many ways.  You could have lost the  first few points and you won several of them.  What was  going through your mind at that stage?  

BORIS BECKER:  Well, you know, in a  tiebreaker in the third set if you start thinking about  so much, you tend to get so nervous that you end up  losing it.  You have to really focus on the next point  and you cannot think back of the chances you may have  had, and you just have to look forward and concentrate  on the next point.  


Q.  Did you think that perhaps the (inaudible)  starter tiebreak, in particular, he was the one that  had the chances and you were taking the --  

BORIS BECKER:  Yes and no.  He gave me a  couple of second serves.  He gave me a couple of second  serves in the tiebreaker and actually throughout the  whole match and -- I wasn't able to take my opportunity  then and I took the first break in the tiebreaker and  then I had 4-2 and I had another chance to make it 5-2  and almost to finish the set right there.  But he  fought back.  He made some good shots and at the end it  was just a question of me being one point better.  


Q.  Is it frustrating to play a guy who hits so  many aces?  Is it difficult to put out of your mind,  the frustration?  

BORIS BECKER:  Well, especially in the latter  part of the match, he just started to click his serve.  I had many chances; actually in the set I lost I had  many more chances to break him than he had to break me,  actually.  That is how tennis is sometimes funny, but  then in the third set I barely won points off his  serve.  He hit two aces a game and it was impossible  for me to make a break and I just have to -- I had to  concentrate on my serve, somehow stay even with him,  and get to the tiebreaker.  


Q.  You played a very good first set.  What  happened afterwards, did you lose concentration or...  

BORIS BECKER:  I had a very good first set  and I had many chances at the beginning of the second  and I couldn't convert them and in the caliber what we  are playing right now, you have to take the chances;  otherwise, Goran is such a good player that he is going  to get his chances and then he took his thing in the  second set, but I really should have broken him early  on in the second set.  


Q.  How much could you sense the tremendous  atmosphere out there, Boris, it was almost as if the  crowd was playing every point with you as well?  

BORIS BECKER:  It was getting harder at the  end to play some decent tennis.  They sort of scream  too early in the points and a couple of shots I had a  really hard time to just to focus on the point and they  were really getting into it which in one hand is great  and in a way I expected it that they get really into  the match, and I thought they were fair.  I thought  they were behind Goran as well, but they were really  getting so noisy at the end; it was difficult to play  good tennis.  


Q.  What do you remember about your wonderful  souvenir two years ago against Goran, do you think it  is something used in this match; do you use something  for this match now?  

BORIS BECKER:  Isn't it amazing that the last  two matches I played him, it is 7-6 in the third and it  is hard to explain.  It is inexplicable almost, you  know, why we play so close matches here and that I come  out 7-6 in the third both times, I cannot say that I am  the better player, definitely not.  Winning 7-6 in the  third is a question of being better maybe one point and  I was the one in the last two matches.  


Q.  Does it perhaps mean as he suggested that you  are a better player on the big points?  

BORIS BECKER:  Probably.  But on the other  hand, he has beaten me also in important matches, you  know, just recently a semifinal Wimbledon I had my  chances too in the second set tiebreaker; he came up  with the big serve, but in general, people have to beat  me when it is close.  I don't really get nervous much  and I don't give it to him.  He has to come up with  aces or with great shots in order to beat me.  


Q.  Boris, looked like you were a little bit  frustrated about the linesmen and the umpire?  

BORIS BECKER:  Well, the umpire has a hard  time and the linesmen also have probably the worst  match to be a linesmen and an umpire at with two of the  fastest serving guys, and we had some problems in the  first match, and I watched it on television and that  already made me a bit nervous and they had some faults  in our match, and it just a very unfortunate because  the difference is really so small that every mistake  counts, and, you know, especially with his serve, I am   -- sometimes I just wish they are out, in a way, so I  have a chance to play his second serve, but it is very  hard for everybody out there.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT