ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 14, 1994
Boris Becker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Boris, how do you explain your remarkable  performance?  

BORIS BECKER: I think people tend to forget  that it wasn't just one very good week, you know, could  be one, two, three in a row, but it was sort of didn't  see their results all over the year.  I thought I had a  very solid year all over on every surface.  I made the  final in the tournament in grass where it was the  semis.  And even before Stockholm I was already the No.  6 in the world.  So okay, finally I made the boom in  Stockholm and everything -- all the best players in the  world back to back, but it showed already in the month  prior to the tournament that I was able to play great  tennis again.  


Q.  When are you going to make a decision about  the Davis Cup, if you are to make the Davis Cup?  

BORIS BECKER: Yeah, I'm going to make the  decision after the Grand Slam Cup.  


Q.  Can you give us any idea of what that  decision might be?  

BORIS BECKER: Whether I will be playing and  if I will be playing when; which round.  


Q.  There's no chance that you would make  yourself available?  Is there a chance you would make  yourself available from the start --  

BORIS BECKER: Of course there's a chance.  


Q.  What would it depend on?  

BORIS BECKER: I don't want to really go into  it.  I said the last couple of weeks that I want to  make a definite answer after the Grand Slam Cup, and I  know I have an easy week ahead of me and another easy  week in Munich and after that I will tell you what's  going on.  


Q.  Everybody says Agassi has come back as  beautiful tennis, but do you feel yourself some more  incentive from the player Boris coming back and/or do  you feel some of the new players speak about or --  

BORIS BECKER: Well, not in particular.  Actually, I feel that we have one more opponent to  fear, so, you know, no, we have so many strong  opponents week in, week out that we don't follow one  particular player that much.  


Q.  Boris, your comments about the changes of the  Australian Open got enormous publicity, as you know.  Looking back at that, have you chosen your --  (Inaudible.)  Have you changed your views about that.  

BORIS BECKER: They have a few rules, and I  think it's partly because of me and mainly because of  all the press basically speaking in the same voice  about the issue.  And, you know, we're very glad that  -- (Inaudible.) -- and hope that everything is going  smoothly.  


Q.  Was it serious your threat not to play or was  it designed specifically to make the the ITF react in  some way?  

BORIS BECKER: It was a spontaneous answer to  the news I heard in the morning when they changed the  time rule, 25 to 20 seconds, and I know how hot it can  be in Australia, and I know playing the best of five  match and the climate which is in Australia can be  very hard anyway.  So I was -- my first reaction was  that in the press conference, and I -- and talking  about it I wanted to point out, you know, that some of  the things they were trying to change I don't --  they're not making much sense.  Actually, they can hurt  tennis in the long run.  


Q.  Could you explain what you mean exactly?  

BORIS BECKER: I was very, very -- at that  stage of my career I was very fortunate to have found a  man with so much knowledge and so much experience as  Nick has in the last winter.  It was a period of  transition for me where I got married, and my son was  born, I didn't play very well, in the fall I dropped  from No. 3 to No. 10, and I didn't play a tournament in  two months.  It was very important for me to find right  there a man who can bring me his knowledge back to the  top in the tennis world and I, you know, I'm very, very  glad about it, very thankful.  


Q.  Did you work on the technical aspects of your  game?  

BORIS BECKER: We worked on all areas of the  game.  It starts with the technique; both through the  mental approach you have in matches.  But, you know, it  all comes down to work as you -- it may look easy  sometimes on the tennis court.  You have to spend many,  many hours on the practice court just improving  yourself, and after you have been playing for so long  as I have been, it's not the easiest thing as when  you're a teenager on the Tour.  Nick found the right  words to inspire me every day, to go back to training  and just do a little bit better than the day before.  And after ten months now, I'm back to being a very good  tennis player.  


Q.  Is it important to be friends -- (Inaudible.)  

BORIS BECKER: I think respect is the most  important part.  I respect him a lot.  I respect the  work he's done, and he respects me a lot.  Our  partnership is based on that, on respect.  And we, at  that stages of our careers, we don't need each other  anymore to be famous or to be big.  He's his own man,  he did his own things before me, and I did my own  things.  So right now as what we have achieved is going  to be the icing on the cake for our careers.  


Q.  How often do you work with him?  

BORIS BECKER: We came almost -- I played  about 19, 20 tournaments.  He came to 15 tournaments  with me, plus he spent many weeks in Munich in my  training camp.  We spent many, many weeks together.  


Q.  Boris, if there was one change in men's  tennis in 1995 that you would like to see implemented,  what would it be?  

BORIS BECKER: To stop talking about whether  tennis has a crisis or not.  I don't think it has any  and I've been answering that question for the last six  months almost in every question, and I got tired of  hearing about it, and I think most players are.  Tennis  is bringing out excellent players, new ones, some old  ones are coming back to the old form and I don't think -- you know, tennis isn't in a crisis at all.  


Q.  This year Sampras started the year and  finished the year like number one like Lendl did in  '87.  Do you think if he is on top of his game he is  untouchable now?  

BORIS BECKER: You see, how quickly things can  change.  He was untouchable for six months and then he  got injured and then he struggled too.  First of all,  to come back on a tennis court and then, of course, in  a couple tournaments he didn't play like he did  before.  So, in the first six months he was definitely  untouchable, he lost two matches out of 12 or ten.  And, you know, also I think now players start to know  his game a bit more and -- but when he's playing well  and when he's on top, he's very difficult to beat.  He  doesn't have a weakness.  


Q.  do you think you have a few more Grand Slam  titles in yourself?  

BORIS BECKER: I think the majority of players  would like to win a couple of Grand Slam titles, and a  few have the opportunity; including Andre and including  myself.  Of course I want to win a few more.  


Q.  The last few years you were not in shape as  good as you used to be.  

BORIS BECKER: Well, it's very easy to talk  over a year and explain it in one sentence just how you  did.  One year can be very long for an athlete; you go  through many ups and downs.  And when you're reaching a  semifinal in Wimbledon, it's not that far away from  being a winner.  But I intend to be in more semifinals  in the future.  


Q.  (Inaudible.)  

BORIS BECKER: Oh, no, I have that hair cut  quite a lot of years now, and sometimes they get  shorter than planned.  And I wish, you know, the hair  cut to be make me quicker this week. I don't have the  extra weight on the head.  


Q.  Do you think it's possible to see Becker win  on clay in the future or is it impossible?  Are you  changing something next year in your schedule or no to  play better on clay?  

BORIS BECKER: I played two clay court  tournaments and I reach one final.  So sometimes you  forget how little the difference is between winning and  losing, and once you're in the final, the difference is  smaller.  Unfortunately on that final it wasn't as  close as I hoped to be, but yes, I hope I can produce,  you know, similar kind of clever tennis next year in  certain events.  


Q.  Boris, even a year ago or a little over that  when you were going over a difficult phase of your life  and your were wearing disguises to go into downtown in  Monte Carlo; now you seem much more balanced.  I know  you have been asked it many times before, now the baby  has been born and getting older and older and older.  When you look back at that period, what do you say to  yourself in terms of where you are now, that was a  tougher period?  

BORIS BECKER: No, for my tennis it was a  tough period.  For my personal life, it was the most  beautiful period of my life.  I got married a couple of  weeks before Noah was born and it was really a  beautiful experience.  I hope that I can make that  experience many more times, you know what I am talking  about?  


Q.  How many times?  

BORIS BECKER: It is not up to me.  And if you  play as many years as I have been now as a professional  tennis player, you cannot go through the same  tournaments and the same years when you are 25 years  old pretending you are 17.  You have to face that you  cannot be inspired by the same things you were five  years ago.  And for me, it was very important to have  foundation, a base there, my private life which gives  me the chance to excel in my profession, and, you know,  that may be tennis now.  In a couple of years it may be  something else, but for me, the foundation is there  now, just to go on as a normal human being; it doesn't  matter what happens.  


Q.  Are you still looking at the age of 30, as  you said before, as a rough time to say only, enough?  

BORIS BECKER: Obviously it depends on the  success and on the enjoyment you have, but I strongly  believe that I have a very good chance of making it  that long because deep down I really love tennis.  I  love the competition.  I love to travel around the  world; maybe not as many times, but I am one of the few  ones who can call his job his hobby.  And as long as I  have that, my success, I wish to continue many more  years.  


Q.  I have just come from Stich's table.  He  wished you the title?  

BORIS BECKER: I thank him very much.  I want  to keep in Germany that trophy.  It has been the last  two years in Germany that trophy and it is going to be  very difficult this year with all the competition, but  I will try my best.  


Q.  Do you think something must be changed in  this tournament because a player like Berasategui comes  through and he plays only --  

BORIS BECKER: I mean, you say that only.  I  mean, it is very difficult to play on clay week in and  week out.  You have to be in great shape and you have a  lot of tough players on that clay surface.  And for him  to have achieved the 7 ranking and to qualify, he has  to be playing incredibly well.  And no, he won so many  tournaments plus he was in the French Open in the  final, he deserves 100% to be here in the ATP final.  


Q.  What about Berasategui?  

BORIS BECKER: You play where you can, where  you have the possibility to win.  And he believes that  he has the most chances on clay and, you know, he  deserves to be here.  


Q.  Do you ever get involved in Barbra's  profession, is that something that you are interested  in when you leave tennis?  

BORIS BECKER: Sorry?  Actually, she doesn't  get involved so much and I would like to get more  involved, but she doesn't let me either, so...  


Q.  Why not?  

BORIS BECKER: Because it is very difficult to  understand each other's feelings deep down on your  profession and why you do it.  And, you know, she is  travelling now for a couple of years around because of  me, so when I quit tennis, I think I have to make a few  years of travelling up for her.  So I hope she  continues what she did before.  


Q.  Which do you think was the biggest surprise  this year in all the tournaments?  

BORIS BECKER: I would say honestly the  comeback of Agassi.  You know, he had a very difficult  operation at the beginning of the year and he couldn't  play prior too many months, and for him to be now the  No. 2 ranked player in the world and really winning the  U.S. Open and winning Paris and winning really strong  tournaments, I think was a surprise even to him how  quickly it came.  Plus, on the other hand, we have in  the last couple of years a big change of the guards and  that hasn't happened this year.  You know, this year,  apart maybe from one player, you expected almost all  seven or eight who are in the ATP final to be somewhere  close to it again.  


Q.  Not surprised about Courier not being here?  

BORIS BECKER: That is a surprise how he went  down, yeah. I forget about that.  


Q.  I suppose your family is the most important  thing in your life now.  It is more difficult to  concentrate on tennis?  

BORIS BECKER: It is easier.  It is much  easier, much less pressure than before.  Much less.  


Q.  Next year it is the 10th anniversary of your  first victory in Wimbledon.  What does it mean to you?  

BORIS BECKER: Actually, it was this year from  the amount of years that I played there.  It was this  year.  Next year is my Wimbledon No. 12, but my 11th  since I became the champion there.  So it was already  this year.  


Q.  If there was a rule that you would like to  change for 1995 about tennis; game, rackets, points  system, ranking system, whatever, what would you  change?  

BORIS BECKER: I have a hard time finding just  one.  I could tell you 25, but...  


Q.  Well, give me the priorities.  

BORIS BECKER: I personally would like to have  more Grand Slam tournaments.  


Q.  Yeah, that is very interesting.  

BORIS BECKER: No, a lot of players have the  chance on it too.  I cannot point one --  


Q.  Give me two or three then, main ones.  

BORIS BECKER: I think about the quantity of  tennis tournaments.  I definitely believe that we are  playing too many so-called big tournaments and they are  built up from the media, from the whole organizers, to  make them big because they want to sell, obviously,  their tickets and their TV rights.  But you only have,  you know, maximum two handful of really important  tournaments and -- but the ranking system doesn't allow  us to play less because our opponents are playing 20,  25 tournaments, and they want to have the equal chance  for the amount of points.  But I think the ATP has  found it out and they want to change for '96 maybe  something in that direction.  That was a short answer  for one point.  


Q.  What about tomorrow's match?  

BORIS BECKER: I think it is going to be a  very close match.  We both have a similar style.  We  like the serve and volley game, we like to base a lot.  It is going to be probably deciding who just feels a  little bit better on the day.  


Q.  Are you the new Boris now?  

BORIS BECKER: I don't like to call myself  new.  I don't like to call myself old.  I am Boris  Becker, you know, playing the tennis on the Tour for  ten years now, eleven years.  


Q.  Do you feel that you are much better today  than you were --  

BORIS BECKER: You definitely have to improve  each year to be able to keep with the best.  If you  don't improve you go down, and I am playing very good  tennis right now.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT