U.S. OPEN
August 29, 1994
Boris Becker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Boris, what happened the first two sets? 
 
 BECKER BORIS: Well, I had a hard time with the circumstances here. It was extremely
slow. They made the court extremely slow this year; especially Center Court and the
Grandstand, and they changed the balls. They made them very heavy and very soft and that
is very bad for my game. It took me an hour to get used to all that. But by the time the
first hour passed, it was two sets to Love down. He, on the other hand, he really started
in full gear and hardly missed a ball for the first hour and a half. All those
combinations made it hard for me to play good tennis at the beginning.  
 
Q. Boris, after the way you have been playing over the summer, how disappointed are you
to go out here in the first round? 
 
 BECKER BORIS: Well, I am very disappointed. I thought I had a very good chance, but on
the other hand, that tournament is playing completely different than all the other
tournaments I have played over the summer. Usually the hard court tennis is very quick and
you can really serve and volley; you don't have to rally so much from the baseline, but
with these slow conditions here it makes it very difficult and it is almost like I didn't
need to play all the hard court tournaments to prepare for this because it is two
completely different circuits.  
 
Q. Is it that much slower than previous years? 
 
 BECKER BORIS: Extremely. But the main difference is the balls, from the normal ball
usually played here or the whole summer, which is very, very, you know, much smaller, much
quicker, and this one, they made it heavier and softer. So you have to hit always a couple
of more shots than normally to finish the point and that suits his game very much. He is a
counter-puncher and he loves to run on the court and all that suits his game very much.  
 
Q. When you even it up at two a piece, did you think that you had him there going into
the fifth set? 
 
 BECKER BORIS: Well, I definitely thought I had a chance. I was fighting very hard, just
to somehow win the games, and by the fourth set I was actually playing good tennis. But
then he slowed down, actually in the fourth set, and he saved his energy for the fifth
set, and there he played like at the beginning, hitting all out, just going for all his
shots and it was an excellent fifth set.  
 
Q. When you saved these three matchpoints the first three, did you think about the
Rostagno in 1989? 
 
 BECKER BORIS: I tell you the truth, I have saved many matchpoints over my career even
this tournament. I cannot find it hard to think about all these matches when I am
matchpoint down. I am just trying to concentrate on the next point and do the best I can.  
 
Q. Did these conditions surprise you when you went out there or did you know going into
the match? You played a little bit on Center Court before this, you knew it was slower. 
 
 BECKER BORIS: Not really at 10:30 at night, usually. . .  
 
Q. Makes it even heavier? 
 
 BECKER BORIS: You don't play tennis at that hour. But sure, I practice a little bit,
but match and practice are two different stories, and I knew beforehand that my opponent
is in excellent form right now and with slow conditions like that, I know it is going to
suit his game very much and I am going in there full battle. I knew it beforehand.  
 
Q. Boris, you once said that the fifth set has very little to do with tennis. What did
tonight's fifth set have to do with it? 
 
 BECKER BORIS: That I have played him many times before and he has never beaten me and
he lost most of the time by not hitting all out, not going for all his shots and I think
today he decided doesn't matter what the score is, I have to risk it all the time. I have
to really hit my serves; I have to hit my groundstrokes, you know, to be able to have a
chance and that is how we played in the fifth set. When I was down game Love-40, he had
three passing shots in the tiebreak out of those seven points he made seven winners
basically, so he -- I think he decided if I am going to lose tonight, has to-- it has to
be with swinging shots and his shots went in.  
 
Q. Got a favorite for who you think might win this now? 
 
 BECKER BORIS: The tournament hasn't really started, you know, it is very tough to
predict at that early stage. Before the match today I thought I had a very good chance.
That is no more the case obviously. You know, with a slow surface like that, it favors
usually the guy who is playing more from the backcourt, and Agassi looked pretty good
today, he looked pretty good today, I thought, but you have many others, Chang played
good, and Sampras hasn't even played yet. Courier hasn't played yet. Stich hasn't played
yet. So it is really early to say something.  
 
Q. How disappointed are you now that it is over? 
 
 BECKER BORIS: Extremely disappointed. I played one of the best summers of my life. I
felt good. I was winning a tournament without losing a set. I really thought I had a very
good chance, but when I first came here and played with the balls and on the surface I
knew I was in trouble. I knew that for some reason they were really trying to slow it down
this year and everybody knows I am not the best on the slow surface.  
 
Q. I am sure you were planning to stay here a little bit longer. Do you have any idea
what is next? 
 
 BECKER BORIS: I have a few weeks off, I guess and the next end of tournament is Sidney
which is in about five weeks, so I have a few weeks off now.  
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT