COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 7, 1993
Boris Becker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BORIS BECKER:  Maybe we start with English first.  I guess  German takes a little longer.   
 

Q.   Did you practice on clay, you were at  Nick's--  
 
BORIS BECKER:  No, we practiced indoors.  They have about 4  indoor courts.  I practiced on indoor supreme.   
 

Q.   Boris, how would you sum up what happened  with your performance out there today?  
 
BORIS BECKER:  My performance was such that I had 3-2, five  breakpoints, and he hit the first two aces, and then I  had three opportunities which I couldn't convert, and I  paid the price later on, when I had 40-15 and 5-All and  he was able to break me there, and in my opinion the  whole match turned around where I had my head in front,  in the first set.  He had his head in front all the  time in the second.  Then at the end, he played some  good tennis to beat me.   
 

Q.   I think the question was:  Were you satisfied  with your performance really?  Were you satisfied with  your performance today?  
 
BORIS BECKER:  I cannot be.  I cannot be.  I have beaten him  three times out of three matches.  Even though they  were quite close, no, I am disappointed.  I hoped, you  know, especially in this tournament to go longer and to  be able to win a couple of matches.  I had two good  exhibition matches last week, and I was practicing  since 12 days and I felt fit and I felt fine, but I  couldn't put it on the court in the match, what I could  do in practice.  I guess, the year has to finish now.   
 

Q.   Have you fixed a time to come back, Boris, in  a tournament where you will return?  
 
BORIS BECKER:  My first tournament will be probably in  Marseille, the first indoor event in Europe in  February.   
 

Q.   Can you explain this association with Nick  Bollettieri or is this just sort of one of those things  for the time being?  
 
BORIS BECKER:  We don't know it for sure.  I have a couple  of -- we are going to have a couple of more talks.  He  is going to stay until Sunday, and then we talk a few  more times, and then I decide and he is going to decide  whether we go next week -- next year.   
 

Q.   Do you see '93 as a year to forget?  
 
BORIS BECKER:  Absolutely not.  I made the best shot of my  career and it is going to come out in about two weeks,  five weeks.  If you talk about my profession, it was my  worst year, no doubt about that.  I had a couple of  good tournaments at the beginning of the year and the  middle - speaking of the semifinal, Wimbledon - but  especially in the past three months, I haven't been  able to play top, top level tennis, and right now I am  glad, you know, there is no more opportunity I can play  this year, and I am glad I can go into a five week  break or six weeks.   
 

Q.   What explanation do you give to yourself and  to us about these last three disappointing months,  because you said you didn't play well, but you didn't  say why; do you know?  
 
BORIS BECKER:  Of course I know why.  It has to do with  Barbara, obviously.  It has to do with a couple of  other things, speaking to Tiriac, speaking of trying to  find a new base, speaking of home where it is about,  but that goes into something I really don't want to  talk about at this point.  But the general problem was that my mind  wasn't focused 100 percent on tennis, and in order to  play top five level tennis, you have to concentrate 100  percent, and I wasn't able to do that because of other  things which were at that time more important in order  to have another couple of good years ahead of me.   
 

Q.   Was it especially difficult finishing with  Eric because you are so close, finishing your  association with Eric because you are such good  friends?  
 
BORIS BECKER:  That is another point which didn't help me  very much at this last tournament, but that is how life  is sometimes.  That is all I can say about it.   
 

Q.   Boris, what do you think of the new format of  the Davis Cup they intend to try to make?  
 
BORIS BECKER:  Tell me what -- what format they are trying  to do?  I haven't been involved in Davis Cup lately, so  I don't really -- I am not up-to-date.   
 

Q.   They intend to make several groups with four  teams and each team playing the three others, and then   -- like the Masters.  
 
BORIS BECKER:  They had that idea a couple of years ago, but  all the time, like the idea to play four matches after  every three months, sometimes you have to go to a place  you don't -- you don't want to go, but it has proven  over the past - how many years Davis Cup is existing  right now - with that format, that it is a good system;  it is a good way, and I hope, you know, the system is  going to stay the same.  I hope in the next years to  follow we have 4 matches over a period of 12 month and  that it is not a tournament which is over in a week or  ten days.  Then it would be just like another  tournament; you wouldn't have that special atmosphere.   
 

Q.   Would you comment on Michael Stich's recent  performances and whether you feel happy for him, the  way he has done well lately?  
 
BORIS BECKER:  Oh, he has played not only the past two or  three months, but over a period of 12 months, you know,  starting with this victory last year, very, very good  tennis, excellent tennis, and especially in Davis Cup  the way he played as the No. 1 player of the team, you  know, he didn't lose the singles; he didn't even lose  the doubles, I think.  He had an extraordinary year,  plus talk about Davis Cup, plus the likes of Goellner  and, Kuhnen and Steeb, played great in those four  matches.   
 

Q.   Are you slightly concerned with your new  responsibilities that are coming, that it may be very  difficult in the future to get to this position where  you can concentrate 100% on tennis?  
 
BORIS BECKER:  You talk about the responsibility of being a  father?   
 

Q.   Yes.  
 
BORIS BECKER:  That is a responsibility which is not only  hard for my profession, but for my everyday life.  But  I am not the first tennis-playing father, you know.  I  cannot pretend that I am all the time 18, you know, the  likes of Lendl, McEnroe, Edberg, Connors have made that  stage, too, and afterwards played good tennis again, so  I don't see that as a real problem.   
 

Q.   Boris, the decision to part with Eric, was  there any ill-feeling between the two of you, and also  what do you think Bollettieri can bring to your game?  
 
BORIS BECKER:  From my point of view, there weren't any ill  feelings about it.  He started with me the week before  the French Open and we had a good couple of weeks,  especially Wimbledon, but then already in October, Eric  told me that at the beginning -- at the end of the year  he is trying to find a new spot, you know, he wanted to  stop with me anyway now, and that is the whole story to  it.  And about Nick, what was the question again?   
 

Q.   What do you think he can bring to your game?  
 
BORIS BECKER:  Hopefully make me play better tennis.  That  is as simple as I can say.   
 

Q.   Next year you are to play the Davis Cup first  match in Austria?  
 
BORIS BECKER:  I can't give you an answer today.  There have  to be talks Michael Stich, Nick Pilic and myself.  I  can't tell you today.   
 

Q.   Boris, especially last week you must have  been especially down and it must have been deepest  point in your career, people always said this permits  you energy and draw some lessons, takes some lessons  out of such a difficult period.  What lessons might you  take out of all of this?  
 
BORIS BECKER:  I mean, I am not prepared to refer to a very  bad year in general terms because I had very good  moments this year, and the last three months were very  indeed.  And my career for ten years now, and there  have been periods where I was really down, and this  can, as you see, can even happen to Boris Becker.  Now  I am glad I get a break and get some new energy and try  and come back the shape that I used to be in for next  year 1994.   
 

Q.   Boris,  in terms of tennis you are in a  difficult period indeed.  To me, personally, you look  very happy and so does your wife, I must say.  How are  you and how is your wife?  
 
BORIS BECKER:  Well, she may be better than I right now, but  tonight she is going to lift me up again, and we are  both very much looking forward to our baby.   
 

Q.   Since we are right before Christmas, Boris,  next year, one year from now, there were will be a  little chap or a little girl sitting under the  Christmas tree.  Do you really know the type of song  you are going to sing?  
 
BORIS BECKER:  I feel it -- I find it rather difficult to  provide an intelligent answer to this question, but  anyway, Barbara is a better singer than I am.   
 

Q.   Boris, the crowd has been rather enthusiastic  today about you, and what do you think about recent  polls in Germany; did they do it with the wrong people?  
 
BORIS BECKER:  Maybe there were no Spiegel readers here  today.  What I think is certain, that people want to  see me play tennis for another couple of years.   
 

Q.   Boris, you said there is going to be a break  now, how long it is going to be?  Are you not going to  play tennis at all?  
 
BORIS BECKER:  Until three hours ago, I had intended,  indeed, to play some more days, but not in this  situation, of course, but tomorrow we shall sit down  with Nick and talk about things about next week, and I  think I am going to play not a lot this year and start  to play again next year to prepare for the  tournaments.   
 

Q.   If you say you are going to sit down with  Nick and talk about things this weeks to come, does  this mean he is a coach now, or sort of advisor, or how  do you have to understand this?  
 
BORIS BECKER:  There has-- no decision has been taken so  far, but if we sit down and talk about what happened  today, saying it was good or bad, it is only-- then we  can decide whether there will be a team, Nick and  Boris, existing in the future.  No decision has been  made so far.   
 

Q.   Boris, last question.  I have been a father  only for a couple of days, and there is something I  would like to know.  Once the baby - you are talking about  planning the future - once the baby is born, are you  going to take her or him along, or how are you going to  handle all of this?  
 
BORIS BECKER:  First, of course, the baby has got to be  born, and so then we can make the decision.  It depends  on how is Barbara, and we will tell you after, and of  course we still have some weeks to think about it and  to decide and, anyway, I'd like to say don't worry  about this.   
 

Q.   Boris, did you plan to have a good end of the  season here; are you mad at yourself now, or you saying  it doesn't matter?  
 
BORIS BECKER:  No, I am disappointed because I wanted to  play good tennis here.  I trained and I played  exhibition matches before, and I am very disappointed.   
 

Q.   Thank you, Boris.   

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT