U.S. OPEN
September 2, 1993
Boris Becker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Talk a little bit about the match; just run it right through, first two sets came back in the third rain break so forth and so on.
 
BORIS BECKER:  Well, the first set even though I was up a break, he was playing a little bad on the serve to win it 6-3.  Second set was very tight.  Both had our chances.  And the tiebreaker, I was a bit unfortunate for me on the set point.  I played really, you know, good point, he did a couple of corners there.  Second set he had me 2-Love and then he, you know, he was off a little bit, I thought.  He gave me the chance to come back to the match, and then you know, we hung on 3-All, 4-All; then I heard on the Grand Stand actually game set match, Novacek, and that, you know, being aware that Edberg is out, that gave me just a little bit of a lift.  Then when I served at 5-4, I was starting to feel a little better.  For some reason when I served at 5-4, state to feel better for some reason at 7-5 before the rain came; then fourth and fifth, I thought I played the whole match the best set probably the fourth set.  Was up a break early.  I had 3-1 up, broken back.  I was feeling pretty relaxed.  I saw him on the other side struggling a little bit more.  He got a little slower As the match went on and then the fifth set, it is always how the dice roll.  I thought though that he got a little slow.  He got more tired than I did in the fifth set.  That made a difference. 
 

Q. Obviously there is talk about the scheduling.  Would you like to comment on the scheduling and what kind of effect it might have on you?
 
BORIS BECKER:  Thanks God I am still in the tournament even though Thursday evening I just finished my first round match.  I think it is poor for the tournament to put a guy like Becker Wednesday night when is he already a week before in town and asking the tournament referee on Sunday to put me as early as possible and then I see the schedule and I am on Wednesday evening.  I think that is not fair treatment to a guy like Becker, especially since they didn't have any big names on Monday.  They had about 10 big names on Tuesday. I thought it was poor scheduling.  Have to go out again tomorrow which is going to be tough, but I give it my best shot. 
 

Q. Thank you.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT