ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 16, 1992
Boris Becker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Terrific final season? 

BORIS BECKER:  Yes, during the summer I had had a lull. 


Q.  What was the reason for that? 

BORIS BECKER:  Just because I worked hard since July.  I didn't play in Rome.  At the time of Wimbledon, I didn't play as was expected.  The season didn't start that good for me, but I am back in form which I had the past years. 


Q.  Is your form better than in Paris? 

BORIS BECKER:  I can't say when I was as good as now. 


Q.  Do you think that you played much better than before? 

BORIS BECKER:  No, it has been awhile that I have been playing this way.  This is a tournament against the best players.  I don't think that I can play better than this.  It is a fast court.  All players play well, just look at the number eight. 


Q.  You have a hard opponent, a first opponent.  What do you think about playing against the defending champion? 

BORIS BECKER:  And probably he is the only one of whom it is expected to beat me.  The last time we played each other, he beat me.  I think that this is the best start for me.  I have a chance to win. 


Q.  Could you talk a little louder? 

BORIS BECKER:  I will try, but I usually only speak now loud when I am angry, but I am not angry at the moment. 


Q.  You said that you had lost your motivation for tennis. How did you win it back? 

BORIS BECKER:  Just because I took a break.  Since 1988, I haven't done anything else, but aim for a goal.  I played tennis and played tennis and played tennis.  In January 1991, I reached the goal.  I was the number one; then I was the number one again.  I would have liked to take the time and to enjoy my success, but it was within the season.  In the long run, it is important that you take a break.  I plan to play until I am 30, but, in between, I have to take my time.  I have to take it easy, but I had a lull.  I wanted to enjoy that what I achieved from time to time. 


Q.  What do you think about the happenings in Germany, about all these bad things happening?  What about your solidarity? 

BORIS BECKER:  I am basically -- this is a tennis tournament, so we should talk about tennis.  Your question doesn't fit in.  I don't want to talk about that now.  Sometimes I talk about these topics, but not during a tournament. 


Q.  You said that you want to play until you are 30.  That is a few years to go.  Does this mean that you are going to go on playing and regardless of what ranking you are and regardless of who is going to beat you? 

BORIS BECKER:  Take Jimmy Connors, he always said that he will stop playing.  Now he is 40, and he is still playing.  Of course, I want to win sometimes when I play the best player, but I will decide when the time has come, then I will ask myself this question. 


Q.  Are you very eager? 

BORIS BECKER:  I like playing indoors.  It doesn't matter if it is spring or autumn.  I have eight days ahead of me.  I want to play my best tennis. 


Q.  One has the impression that you are more eager? 

BORIS BECKER:  I am tired.  I have played 18 or 19 tournaments in a row in the past six months, but we are all tired.  I hope that it is going to be a good tournament; that I will get through. 


Q.  What about your flu? 

BORIS BECKER:  I have been ill from Monday to Wednesday.  There was a misunderstanding in Rome.  I called in order to tell them that I am ill, but because it was only one day before, I had to participate, so I went.  I played against Stefan, and the next day I wasn't feeling well. I went home and relaxed.  That is all -- that is it. 


Q.  You have been the number one -- you have won Wimbledon three times.  What is your aim?  What do you want to achieve? 

BORIS BECKER:  Maybe to win a Grand Slam tournament and, furthermore, it sounds better if you say that you won Wimbledon five times than three times. 


Q.  Do you think that you have a monkey on your back? 

BORIS BECKER:  I haven't won a tournament on every surface yet, but my career is far from being over.  When one is good enough to reach the finals, one is good enough to win the finals. 


Q.  You have commented on the prize money very often because you think that it is exaggerated too much.  Do you have anything to say about that it gets more every year? 

BORIS BECKER:  I am talking about my own profession.  There are good and bad sides to it.  It is only that I am wondering that it gets more and more every year while it gets less in other professions.  Munich, for instance, the prize money is $2 million. 


Q.  Is that too much? 

BORIS BECKER:  Yes.  It is too much.  For the players it is good, we earn our living with it.  For us it is better to have high prize money than low. 


Q.  You have a new trainer? 

BORIS BECKER:  It is a good trainer.  He knows a lot about tennis.  He could help me. 


Q.  Can you characterize him? 

BORIS BECKER:  No.  I don't want to characterize him and I don't want to talk about our type of training, methods of training.  That is our business. 


Q.  Was he recommended to you? 

BORIS BECKER:  No.  I knew him before.  I have known him for five years. 


Q.  You have been training for seven weeks together now? 

BORIS BECKER:  Yes.  That is right, seven weeks, since Basel.  I won that tournament, but I wouldn't say that it was, thanks to Gunther that I won that tournament.  Bercy, maybe, was thanks to him. 


Q.  In respect of Paris, is Gunther Bresnik who can help you? 

BORIS BECKER:  We will see in May. 


Q.  Thomas Muster said that Gunther Bresnik is not the person that can help you. 

BORIS BECKER:  He is wrong. 


Q.  You always had the pressure to be the number one.  Can you handle your career better now?  Can you reach your goals without influence from outside? 

BORIS BECKER:  There is always influence from outside.  Through the coach, for instance.  Since I won Wimbledon at the age of 17 a lot has changed.  I have been the number one.  I have needed a break.  That time is over now.  I have shown the world and myself that I can make it.  I enjoy tennis again.  I am 25 and I have good years ahead of me.  The age is not a problem.  I am eager to play tennis.  I have shown that in the past months.  I have worked very hard. 


Q.  Honestly, how good was Paris for you, personally, I mean, after everyone had written you off? 

BORIS BECKER:  Sometimes one wants to earn the fruits of the hard work. I have been training very good for the past month. 


Q.  Your first opponent is Sampras.  Is that hard for you? 

BORIS BECKER:  There are only hard opponents here at Frankfurt.  I wish I could say that there was somebody here who should not play -- who is not good enough to play here.  The pressure to play against Sampras is not that high as if I would have to play against Korda at the beginning.  I think the pressure is on Sampras's side. 


Q.  Is it a relief that Stich is not participating, that you are the only German in the top 10? 

BORIS BECKER:  I don't mind.  It has been like that all the years except for '91.  It is nothing new to me. 


Q.  Is an incentive for you to win here? 

BORIS BECKER:  It is the optimum to win here.  I am looking forward to play tomorrow and then I will see.  Everything step by step. 


Q.  What does it mean to you playing here after Bercy? 

BORIS BECKER:  It is hard to play here.  The pressure is strong.  The expectation -- they expect me to win.  But that inspires me.  I hope that the whole hall supports me.  I can play better then. 


Q.  Do you remember last year when the whole hall wasn't against Michael Stich but supported you? 

BORIS BECKER:  That has been the same the past years.  There have been good days here.  I have met fans who came because of the tennis; not because of the caviar.  They supported me.  I hope that it is going to be the same this year.  I am in good shape. 


Q.  Your first opponent is the defending champion.  Is that an advantage or disadvantage? 

BORIS BECKER:  It is an advantage.  He is the number 3 of the world.  He is the best first opponent for me. 


Q.  Are you satisfied with the draw? 

BORIS BECKER:  Yes. 


Q.  Can your trainer help you to take the pressure from the audience from you? 

BORIS BECKER:  He is here for the first time.  I am alone on the court, and it was also -- it was also me who decided to work hard again. 


Q.  I talked to your trainer.  He said that you are in top form and that you are the favorite. 

BORIS BECKER:  Idiot.  Good, that is his opinion, I think that there are eight strong players participating and Boris is one of them.  I have a good chance to win. 


Q.  Who do you think is the favorite? 

BORIS BECKER:  As I said, nobody.  In Paris, for instance, it was the number 9 who won.  That was me. 


Q.  Are you satisfied to play Sampras at the beginning? 

BORIS BECKER:  As I said, the pressure is on Sampras' side. 


Q.  After Bercy, the CDU politician Schauble said that you have done more for the representation or image of Germany in the foreign countries than the 300,000 demonstrators in Berlin have done? 

BORIS BECKER:  You mean the 299,700?  If such a man says such a statement, it is an honor for me.  I can't judge this.  You should judge this.  I try to -- I am a German, but I was in Bercy to play tennis. 


Q.  Sometimes you talk about topics and they are blown out of proportion, and then at other times you just talk about tennis like here.  Does this bother you? 

BORIS BECKER:  No.  During a tournament I only talk about tennis.  In my free time I talk about other topics which concern me or are interesting to me.  I have been doing this for years.  That is my way. 


Q.  You are in good shape.  Two years ago you had problems with your thigh. 

BORIS BECKER:  Yes.  Actually, it was a wonder that I played the tour. 


Q.  Did you work harder? 

BORIS BECKER:  In 1991, I had had a high.  This summer I had a lull. Now I am back in form.  Last year I won in Sweden.  The autumn is a good time to play tennis. 


Q.  Have you learned to deal more with your form more efficiently?  Have you learned to deal with your body? 

BORIS BECKER:  I have always been known -- I have always known to deal with my body. 


Q.  How can you make out that you are better now? 

BORIS BECKER:  My problem was always my footwork.  When I am at -- I reach a ball it is no problem for me to play it good, but to get to the ball is the problem.  Sometimes I just badly position myself with the ball.  I don't have this problem any longer. 


Q.  Sometimes you talked about private matters.  There were times when when people said that your losses were because of your girlfriend.  Now your success -- now it is said that your success is because of your girlfriend. 

BORIS BECKER:  It wonders me that success and failure are always brought into connection with others.  In the past month I have set up a good team around me and my girlfriend is a part of that team, but also a good physiotherapist, a good doctor -- a good doctor, a good, good racket expert, etcetera. 


Q.  Boris, you said that you are going to participate at the tournament in Qatar, and what are your expectations? 

BORIS BECKER:  I don't know what I have to expect.  I have never played in that part of the world.  I have heard something about it, but I am going to -- I will see. 


Q.  We are looking forward to having you in our country and we wish you all the best. 

BORIS BECKER:  Thanks. 


Q.  When do you expect to be number one of the world again? 

BORIS BECKER:  I don't know.  You have to ask the other players when they are going to let me again, but also it depends on me as well. 


Q.  There have been rumors about what you were going to wear here today.  You are wearing the same.  Have they taken your measurements? 

BORIS BECKER:  Yes, but already two years ago some players have changed.  Krajicek should have worn the trousers of Lendl, but anyway, we have -- we got our clothing from one of the sponsors here. 


Q.  You have a five year contract with Lotto; does this mean that you are going to play for another five years? 

BORIS BECKER:  I want to play for quite awhile.  Of course, with highs and lows. 


Q.  You play well in Paris? 

BORIS BECKER:  Not only in Paris.  Also the other tournaments I have played a good level.  I hope that this is going to be for some time.  I am not planning to stop playing tennis on Monday. 


Q.  Have you learned to cope with the stress? 

BORIS BECKER:  It is part of my profession.  Since 1985 my life has changed.  I have got used to it.  I try to live with it. 


Q.  You have been furious about the fact that there is a 70 minute break between the first and the second match.  Now it is only 60 minutes, the break. 

BORIS BECKER:  So you can see, I have reached something at least.  I don't understand it, but money makes the world go round, as one says. 


Q.  We have the information in from the U.S.S.R. that you are going to participate at the Kremlin cup? 

BORIS BECKER:  I have planned to play some exhibitions.  The problem is the date.  I can't play that week. 


Q.  How would you rank this final, seen as a whole with the prize money, the atmosphere, the players, etcetera? 

BORIS BECKER:  In respect of the prestige, the most important tournament for me are Paris, French Open, Wimbledon, U.S. Open, but you can't compare them.  I don't want to rank them. 


Q.  It sounds as if you think that you also would participate if the prize money wasn't that high. 

BORIS BECKER:  In the past the prize money wasn't that high, but we still participated. 


Q.  What do you need in order to win the finals here? 

BORIS BECKER:  Here it is that you have to give your best, that you have to go to your limits. 


Q.  Does this mean that it is good that you are here as the number 7 and not as number 1? 

BORIS BECKER:  Yes. 


Q.  The first round in the Davis Cup you were playing against U.S.S.R..  What do you think about that? 

BORIS BECKER:  The former U.S.S.R. has a strong team, very good players.  We are lucky that it is no longer one country because otherwise there would be even stronger players.  I hope that we are going to play good match in Moscow. 


Q.  You had problems with your racket.  You ran out of rackets. 

BORIS BECKER:  I don't have this problem any longer.  I have a good racket expert.  Because of his know-how and his contacts, he managed to supply me with rackets. 


Q.  Does this mean that there is a special racket for you? 

BORIS BECKER:  Yes. 


Q.  How is your -- who do you want to see in the finals? 

BORIS BECKER:  That I am one of the two players and the opponent -- I don't care who the opponent is. 


Q.  Is it important to you that the tournament takes  place in Frankfurt and not in another city? 

BORIS BECKER:  It was in New York before.  New York has character and charm.  But it has a meaning to me because it is at home.  The audience is on my side.  But they also put the pressure on me, but I am in good shape. 


Q.  Will you stay here during the week or are you going to stay in Leimen? 

BORIS BECKER:  I haven't been in Leimen for a very long time. 


Q.  You have a contract with Lotto.  Does this mean that you have changed your opinion or is it only that you have to wear something? 

BORIS BECKER:  There are some companies which I could never work with because they are not okay, out of reasons I won't mention now. 


Q.  Would you use this possibility for -- of advertising against racism or other topics?  Do you think it is a possibility to express your opinion against racism or other topics through your clothing? 

BORIS BECKER:  I try to express my opinion in interviews.  I think on the court, I think one shouldn't express his opinion on the court. 


Q.  Could you think of yourself being the head of a movement? 

BORIS BECKER:  I am not a speaker.  Now and then I make comments, but I am not a spokesman and you can't put me me into -- with a particular group. 


Q.  Like Agassi whom you can't put with a particular group. Do you think it is a shame that he is not participating here? 

BORIS BECKER:  Yes, because he always brings some glitter and glamour into a tennis tournament, but it is also good because last time I lost against him. 


Q.  Didn't he make enough effort? 

BORIS BECKER:  You have to choose priorities.  He needed a break. 


Q.  Who, according to your opinion, deserves to be number one this year? 

BORIS BECKER:  Jim Courier.  He played the best this year.  He would deserve it. 


Q.  Are you surprised?  Because you said once that he is not good enough. 

BORIS BECKER:  Surely he doesn't have as much talent as a McEnroe, but he has enough talent.  He has worked very hard.  He has had his success.  He dominated the tournament in Paris like no other player. 


Q.  In order to be number one, does your whole life have to be tennis?  Does one have to live tennis and dream tennis? 

BORIS BECKER:  No.  If John McEnroe had played tennis everyday, he surely would not have been as good.  Sometimes you have to have a break. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT