U.S. OPEN
September 8, 1992
Boris Becker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.   Any match like that must leave some regrets.  What particular
regrets does that match leave regarding your performance throughout
the five sets?

 BORIS BECKER:  Well, I had my chance in the fifth, I mean, he
was better the second.  He was better in the fourth, but at the
beginning of the fifth, I had my chances.  I had a breakpoint
once at 2-1, I had 15-40 and twice didn't put the serve in.  I
had the chance to do something, and I didn't.  That was probably
the key, match -- the key point and the key game for the match.


 Q.   Would you say stamina was a key factor also in that match?

 BORIS BECKER:  Not really.  I was -- sure, I mean, this morning
I felt a little bit better than I feel now, but you know, it was
6-4 in the fifth and I had in the fifth set, it was almost that
everyone will have their chances on the other guy's service games,
so it was a hard struggle for both players, and is-- I guess I
came out so many times on top against him in a close match, and
you know, sometimes the dice are not falling for you.  I have
to take it like that.

 Q.   He said you were bunting the ball pretty well?

 BORIS BECKER:  What?

 Q.   You were bunting the ball pretty well.

 BORIS BECKER:  Well, whatever.

 Q.   Boris, after the third set in the tiebreaker you went
up two sets to one.  Did you think you were in control of the
match?  Did you think it was going to go five hours?

 BORIS BECKER:  No.  I thought the third set tiebreaker was point,
and big, and at the beginning of the fourth, you know, on his
first two service games, I had my chances and somehow he came
out, and then was a long service game, at 1-2, when I was down
15-40; then I had a couple of strange calls and a couple of talks
with the umpire, and then it was ad, deuce; ad, deuce, and then
somehow he broke me there, and that was the turning point for
him, you know, from then on he had some air again and I was then
all of a sudden a break down in the fourth.

 Q.   What do you think made the difference in the end?

 BORIS BECKER:  Everybody saw it.  It was a question of one ball,
basically.  The difference is sometimes, you cannot really explain
it in words.  On some days it is-- you are meant to win and some
days meant to lose and I think it was a question of that today.


 Q.   What does this match tell you for the following month
and the end of the year?

 BORIS BECKER:  Well, I had pretty tough loss in Wimbledon against
the champion, and also in five and I had a pretty tough loss now
against Ivan, and -- you know, in one sense it is better almost
or it doesn't hurt as much if you lose quite easily.  But on the
other hand, you know, if you play the way I did now comparing
to two, three month ago it is definitely on the way up, and I
just have to go on to try hard and fight, and there is going to
come a time again when those breakpoints are going to fall for
me.  It doesn't come -- it didn't come today and it is not going
to come tomorrow.  But if I continue the way I have been practicing
and trying and playing, I am going to be back in the top of the
tennis world.

 Q.   Boris, how disappointed are you right now?  

 BORIS BECKER:  Well, I am actually more tired than disappointed;
probably when I wake up tomorrow, or the days after, then the
pain is going to start, but right now, I gave it everything I
had.  It was not a question of me not trying or not playing good.
 It was just a question of the two man battled there for five
hours and one had to loss and it happened to be me today.  But
I can -- I can keep my head up, and as I just said before, if
I continue like that, I am going to play again Ivan, I am going
to play again Agassi and all those players, and then maybe I am
going to win 6-3 in the fifth, so I just have to go on and train
and fight and do the same thing I have been doing the last couple
of weeks and month.  But on this very moment, it is pretty tough
to lose like that.  It is probably --

 Q.   Boris, there seem to be a lot of things that were bothering
you during the match.  Was it just a matter of calls that you
disagree with or anything in particular that was bothering you
about the way the match was?

 BORIS BECKER:  I have rarely seen a tight match where one player
agreed so much with the umpire and vice versa. Usually you have
bad calls on both sides, both players are talking to the umpire,
but in those five hours, I seemed to be the only one was trying
and talking to the umpire.  That doesn't really happen often.
 

 End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT