WNBA FINALS: STORM VS. ACES
October 6, 2020
Angel McCoughtry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Seattle Storm 92, Las Vegas Aces 59
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Angel.
Q. Bill said that in a huddle you said something about turnovers sucking the life out of you.  How hard is that when you're trying to make a comeback, just keep turning the ball over?
ANGEL McCOUGHTRY:   You can't do that in the Finals, especially against a team as good as Seattle, as smart as Seattle.
But this is a great learning experience for these girls.  I know they're going to fight to get back there again next year.  Now they'll know what it takes.  They see what a championship team looks like.  They can learn from it.  We have film to look back on.
Q. I know you came to the Aces hoping to get back to the Finals.  I know the team probably didn't look exactly what you expected when you joined.  What has that experience been like for you, what can you take from this first season?
ANGEL McCOUGHTRY:   It was a great experience.  It's a great organization.  They treated me so well.  The way they helped take care of my knee.  I was playing through a lot of pain sometimes with my knee.  So, I'm thankful to Bill for giving me a chance when I had so many doubters.  I just really appreciate this organization.
To get back there, it's a blessing.  I know I don't have many years left.  Of course, I wanted to win one.  I've been to the Finals so many times and haven't got one.  I'm just proud of what this team has done.
Q. This was your first season with the Aces.  You made it to the Finals.  What did it mean to be a part of this group of women?
ANGEL McCOUGHTRY:   It's good because you know you have an MVP in A'ja Wilson, Sixth Man in Hamby.  They're continuously gaining experience.  A'ja is a great teammate, one of the best teammates I've ever had.  Always smiling, happy.  Just a great teammate to play with.
It's going to happen.  It's coming.
Q. What would you say is the biggest thing you learned about yourself throughout this different WNBA season?
ANGEL McCOUGHTRY:   Just having to be strong, that I am and my teammates are.  To be in this bubble through all the trials and tribulations of the world, to play in the Finals with no fans, not our home crowd, it's tough.  I'm not going to lie and say it's easy.
These girls are mentally tough.  Hopefully next year we're going to be able to play in our arenas.  It will be a lot better.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT