WNBA FINALS: STORM VS. ACES
October 2, 2020
Angel McCoughtry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  Las Vegas Aces - 93, Seattle Storm - 80
 Q. Angel, obviously only one game, but I guess, what did you maybe learn about Seattle and a little bit about your team tonight?
 ANGEL MCCOUGHTRY:   Well, let me start with my team because that's my focus.  We have been in this situation before.  It's the girls' first Finals.  This is a learning experience.  And once again, like I always say, failure helps you become better.  So it's once again the perfect storm, and I learned that, you know, we're in a good position, we just missed a couple of shots.  But we can't hang our heads when we're not getting some momentum and defensively we're lacking on a lot of plays, so we'll fix all that and adjust it for the next game.
 As far as them, they just capitalized on our weak moments and we can't show that.  We can't show that the next game.
 Q. Obviously, they didn't have Sue Bird during the regular season games.  When she's out there orchestrating everything the way that she did, just how hard are they to slow down?
 ANGEL MCCOUGHTRY:   She's a vet.  She's been here before.  She's one of the smartest players out there.  It shows.  She had 16 assists tonight.  But I think we got to just do a better job of really defending all around.
 Q. You mentioned Sue Bird's 16 assists.  Breanna also almost, you know, took your record for scoring in the Finals.  Was that something that you were cognizant of during the game or not so much?
 ANGEL MCCOUGHTRY:   No, I was just cognizant that we gave up 37 points, I didn't even know I had the record, honestly.  But is that actually the record for the Finals?  Is that --
 Q. You have it with 38 points back in 2011 I believe and she had 37.  So she almost caught you.
 ANGEL MCCOUGHTRY:   I'm saying what's the highest record in the Finals period?
 Q. You, 38.
 ANGEL MCCOUGHTRY:   Wow.  Had no idea.  But, you know, it's fun that, you know, records are meant to be broken of course but I don't want them broken against me (laughing) against our team.  But it's fun that I even have the record.  That's an awesome thing, but I think we just need to defend better right now.
 Q. So obviously you're now 0-4 against Sue Bird and Seattle Storm.
 ANGEL MCCOUGHTRY:   Thanks.  Thanks for pointing that out.
 Q. How will it feel to finally get a win against them?
 ANGEL MCCOUGHTRY:   I'm not thinking like that.  I'm not thinking like that.  I'm on a different team, we're taking it one step at a time.  What current champion mindset would I think going into a game I'm 0-4 against Sue Bird?  Who thinks like that?  So I don't even accept questions like that because I don't think like that.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT