WNBA FINALS: DREAM v LYNX
October 10, 2013
Armintie Herrington
Angel McCoughtry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.   What did they do tonight that was difficult or anything different than the previous two games? 
ARMINTIE HERRINGTON:   Still making shots.   They shot the ball really, really well, but I'm just so proud of our team, of sticking with it, never giving up, and keeping our heads very high.   We played against a great team.   I think they're probably the most talented team in the WNBA, and we was right there with them.   It's just a sad way to go out, but somebody has got to lose, and this year it was us. 

Q.   You woke up in the end of the third quarter.   I think you started playing a little more deliberate, passes were sharper.   Was there something in particular that got fire underneath you, or did you just look up at the clock and realize this is it? 
ANGEL McCOUGHTRY:   I wouldn't say that just happened in the third quarter.   That happened since the beginning of the series.   We have that fire.   We believe we can win a championship.   We still believe for next year, too.   That's just the type of team we are.   We're always going to have fire. 

Q.   What needs to happen?   You haven't been able to win a game in three appearances now.   What needs to change or what do y'all need to get over the hump? 
ARMINTIE HERRINGTON:   I think we continue to be disciplined and obviously get a little bit more talent.   I know we need to help Angel.   So much focus is always on her, and we need to be able to get better and just keep ticking at it.   We can't give up.   Like I said, they are one of the most talented teams, but when we face the Minnesota Lynx, we have to be much sharper mentally because they're smart on both ends of the floor.   They're not just going to jack up shots.   They run all their plays all the way through, and we have to be disciplined the same way.   We have to get better in the off season therefore so we can help Angel and be a complete team.

Q.   As you got closer, as The Finals wore on, how much of an impact did the injuries have because you can be healed but until you actually sit down and rest, you're not actually healed.   What role do you think that played? 
ANGEL McCOUGHTRY:   I mean, it's tough, but we're not going to make that excuse.   I'm pretty sure Minnesota has injuries, too, and they're beat up just as bad as we are.   But that's why she said it takes that mental toughness to continue to fight through.   It's a long season, and most of us play overseas, so it gets tough.   But you've just got to fight through if you want to win a championship. 
I'm proud of them.   They fought through all the injuries.   Tiffany Hayes, she hurt her shoulder; Sancho helped us a lot.   It was tough, but you've got to commend these young ladies for just being strong and continuing to come out fighting hard.   And honestly, like I told them before, a true champion is somebody that comes out and just gives it their all.   We're still champions.   We might not have it on the stat sheet, on the record books, but I believe we're still champions for everything we went through.   We're not supposed to be here right now.   We had a tough season, and I'm just very proud of everybody, I really am?

Q.   In particular can you talk about the loss of Sancho Lyttle?   She's definitely missed in the middle. 
ARMINTIE HERRINGTON:   You know, I was just telling Sancho in the locker room that we won 10 games with her.   I think our record was 17 games going into the Playoffs, so I felt like if we didn't have her, where would we be?   She's a big part of what the Dream does, and her rebounding, just her defensive skill and offensive ability, it's a great loss, but she was still there for us on the bench, still coaching and still always there.   We never know where we'll be with her.   We never know, we've just got to play the hand we're dealt. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT