NEW YORK RED BULLS MEDIA CONFERENCE
March 11, 2017
Pablo Mastroeni
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Own goals, nobody likes them, but they happen.  Besides that, did things go according to plan tonight?  
PABLO MASTROENI: Yeah, we knew what we were going to face coming into the Red Bull Arena here.  I think it was a hard-fought game.  I think coming away from home (Indiscernible), and I think we've done a little bit better.  Obviously, I thought we were pretty good for the most part (Indiscernible).   
 Q.  How do you improve your composure and technical ability in that final third?  
PABLO MASTROENI: I think every game's different.  I think these guys play a really high fast-paced type of ball, and obviously they're not going to allow games to settle down.  They're really getting after it.  I think, again, two or three breaks own goal, and we've just got to make our chances better.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
PABLO MASTROENI: Yeah, I think he had a really good game, kept us in the game and made some plays.  I think for the most part the whole back line played extremely well and the guys in the front.  I think, again, these guys are a good team, and they create a lot of opportunities.  I think for the most part, except for a couple plays, I think it was a pretty good overall performance.   
 Q.  Tim has been out almost four months.  When did you kind of decide, okay, this is the day he'll play.  
PABLO MASTROENI: I think it was mostly about how he felt and making sure that he was completely recovered from the injury, and not having to think about whether or not he could kick the ball because he wasn't there yet.  I think that was the moment.  He felt great this week.  I think he's ready to rock.   
 Q.  You get in here, and it's super cold, were you worried about that?  And second minute he's tested right off the back.  
PABLO MASTROENI: No, no.  Listen, I don't second-guess things.  There's always things that can happen after the fact, but I don't concern myself with that.  When he says he's ready to go, whether it's snow and raining, he's ready to rock.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT