ROLAND GARROS
May 28, 2014
Kenny De Schepper
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 T. ROBREDO/K. De Schepper
      6‑2, 6‑3, 6‑3 
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French.   
   
 Q.   Quite simply, what was your first impression when you walked out on the court?   
    KENNY DE SCHEPPER:   I would say it was a match for which initially I wanted to be aggressive.   I did not want to allow him to play.   I stuck to that as best as I could, but I was not 100% in the execution of that plan.  
    Then he was very good in the way he played.   He missed absolutely nothing.   He was very consistent throughout the match.   Congratulations to him really.  
    I made some mistakes, but he missed absolutely nothing.  
   
 Q.   You had already played him in the past?   
    KENNY DE SCHEPPER:   No, I had never played him.  
   
 Q.   What surprised you most on court coming from him?   
    KENNY DE SCHEPPER:   The fact that he is mentally very stable.   He reminded me of David Ferrer, although he plays differently.  
    He's very calm, he's always there, and he never lowers the level of his game.   So it was very interesting playing him today.  
   
 Q.   But the conditions weren't very good.   It's chilly today; a few drops of rain.   
    KENNY DE SCHEPPER:   Well, that really did not make any difference.   It was the same for both of us.   
    It was a match that I'm going to analyze or think about.   It's going to be interesting.   
   
 Q.   Anything positive?   What would you like to remember from this match?   
    KENNY DE SCHEPPER:   Well, the aggressive game that I used throughout match was good in terms of intention, but I was not able to deliver this plan.  
    But I'm going to use it for the future on grass.   I played lots of volleys.   I missed quite a few.   I will have to find a way to put them inside the court.   
    It was interesting.  
   
 Q.   What about your plans for the future?   Queen's?  
    KENNY DE SCHEPPER:   I am going to go to the Nottingham challenger starting next Tuesday, then Queen's, 's‑Hertogenbosch, and then Wimbledon.   So four tournaments on grass.   
    Same as last year, except last year there was Eastbourne as well.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT