D.C. UNITED MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 11, 2016
Ben Olsen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








New York Red Bull - 2, D.C. United - 2
THE MODERATOR: Questions.
Q. The way your season has been going, to get that late equalizer, what does this do even though there's not much time left?
COACH OLSEN: I think for most of the night it was pretty discouraging, right?  They were better in a lot of facets of the game.  But what I don't doubt with my group is courage and belief.  To be able to salvage something on a day when we weren't that great, things were a little bit against us.  I thought the first goal, thought it could have been a foul.  We give them the second with a square ball.  In some ways we played into their hands.  We miss a breakaway.  Again, things didn't go our way.
The second half, now we have to chase the game.  When you do that against Sacha and Bradley Wright, you're in for it.  They're as good as anybody in this league when you start to get exposed.  We rode our luck a little bit.  We have a good goalkeeper.  We found a way to get something out of it.
This helps.  A point in the East right now goes a long way 'cause there's a lot of ties, and it's very tight, and every point counts.
Q. Urgency or desperation the last few minutes or do you think something changed?
COACH OLSEN: There's certainly an urgency, right, at 2-0.  We've got to throw the sink at them.  It's not the first time they've kind of buckled late.  I think our guys understand that.  Start throwing Steve Birnbaum up there to get his head on some things.  Getting your outside backs as high as possible.  Stuff happens.
Give those guys a lot of credit.
Q. (No microphone.)
COACH OLSEN: In the first half, there's always space against them behind, right?  The way they play, you always are going to have chances.  Even in the first half, there's four or five chances.  If the soccer is a little bit better or the decision is right from our end, we're in on two V ones or three V twos.  That's the way they play.  They're very successful in it.  I give them a lot of credit.
Again, over the course of the night, there just wasn't enough soccer from us.  We didn't connect on very simple plays that you have to do against this team in this building, right?  The little things compound here if you don't do it well because you now defend and defend, then you can't get out to the ball.  That's a problem against them.
Q. Not saying there would have been any doubt before, but what happened three weeks ago, did that add anything?
COACH OLSEN: Maybe.  Maybe.  I think you have to go poll the players.  Usually belief isn't an issue with my group.  But this will go a long way.  We felt like we gave some points up last week.  To go down and lose that game last week, have a response like this, it shows that we've got some character.
Q. How much, if at all, did Lloyd help with inspiration?
COACH OLSEN: He helps.  Maybe a touch with some real minor details.  But we know who they are.  We watch them every week.  We've been playing Jesse for a while.  A lot of their cast of characters is the same.
In this building, they're not going to deviate from what they do.  If you're not prepared for them coming in here and what they're going to do, there's not really any excuse for that.
Q. You mentioned the way they play.  Even when they have a two-goal lead, are you surprised they're playing the way they did?
COACH OLSEN: We said at halftime, You don't have to throw the sink too early against teams that play this way because you'll still get chances.  They'll at times leave themselves exposed.
But, look, they were very good tonight.  They could have had two, three in the second half.  Two posts.  I'm under no illusions.  They're a good team.  That's the reality.
Q. (No microphone.)
COACH OLSEN: Yeah, goals are a big deal, right?  But he'll be his toughest critic.  He's always going to make a few saves that keep us in the game.  He'll consistently do that for us, so...
Yeah, again, it's another chance to respond.  We talk about making good choices in how we respond, tough moments throughout a long season, and we're constantly challenged to do that.
Q. Frank is an ankle?
COACH OLSEN: I hope it's his ankle.  We're not sure.  We've got to evaluate.  It could be soft tissue.  Something we'll have to look at.
Okay, guys.  Thanks.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT