UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
December 21, 2009
Earl Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q. Talk about you being the lone guy on the defense of the Big 12 and the All American. Has anybody been upset about that? Is that something the defense has taken as motivation? 
 EARL THOMAS: I'm pretty sure they've been upset. But we've got so many team oriented guys they won't say it aloud. But I tell you it adds fuel to the fire and proves that will give us some spit, you know. Being underdogs, you know, I think we're always ready to get upset. But we don't worry about that, we just worry about Texas.

 Q. Can you use some of that as motivation. That you're number two, or whatever the five, six-point spread, whatever the spread is. Do you embrace that and try to use that? 
 EARL THOMAS: Definitely. If we were to use anything, that would be a great thing to use. Just so we can use some of our great defensive players that didn't get the recognition they deserve, and just adding fuel to the fire. Trying to just play it play-by-play, and see what happens when the clock strikes zero. 

 Q. Do you know that this is a defensive battle and you guys can go out there and really have a chance against the other guys? 
 EARL THOMAS: Yeah, it's going to be a physical game. Both defenses are great defenses. They're the top of the league. You know, that just goes to say why we're in the same position that we are today. So as a kid, you always want to talk about playing for a college that's going to play for a National Championship, and it's just a dream come true. 

 Q. In Orlando you mentioned about Alabama and everything. Did you get a chance getting ahold of this team you're getting a -- they're getting a little bit of an edge from the national media and that's adding fuel to the fire? Do you sense that building up? 
 EARL THOMAS: We don't need media to get us pumped up for this game. If you can't get pumped up for this game, you don't need to be there. We've been pumped up since Tuesday at 6:00 a.m. in the morning. We're just taking everything in. And we'll see what happens when we get out there.

 Q. Have you had a chance to speak to Jones. He didn't have the best start, but he's certainly doing better. 
 EARL THOMAS: I've seen him on the Top 10 on ESPN, and I've seen him and Ingram. So they're play makers. We'll try toll contribute and control them. Just game tackle them and see what happens. 

 Q. How is the offense and defense? 
 EARL THOMAS: They're a physical offense. They run the ball, run, run, run. And if you're not watching the play action, they'll throw it deep to big Julio. When I watch the floor, they even came out in space. So they're the best offense. They play with great form, and it's going to be a great game.

 Q. Can you talk about the challenge going up against physical guys? You're obviously a physical guy yourself. Do you embrace that challenge of going up against those big, physical guys? 
 EARL THOMAS: You always want to go against the best. That's how you get your name right there. You want to produce in big games. Big time players stepping up in big situations. This is a great situation for everybody. It's going to be a great game. A physical game.

 Q. Did that help you make up your mind whether you're coming back or not? 
 EARL THOMAS: I don't want to talk about that right now. I want to focus on this game and I'll see what happens after that.

 Q. Can you talk about Christian getting out there? 
 EARL THOMAS: Everybody's happy to see big Christian out there. As you remember in the Kansas game, he came in in the second half and he played lights out. Actually out produced me and outplayed me the whole game. So he's a big weapon to the defense. They just add more confidence and depth. We're happy to have him back.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT