UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 2, 2016
Torii Hunter, Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: We have Torii.  We'll take questions.   
 Q.  We were talking to Coach Kelly about this, the lapses where opponents have scored 17, 21, 36 straight points.  From an offensive standpoint, what do you guys have to do to kind of break that trend?  
TORII HUNTER, JR.: I think it's a number of things.  I can't really put one point on it 'cause it seems like it's something different every week.   
But I think mainly we just have to continue to stay laser focused.  No matter how long we're off the field or whatever it may be, we just got to make sure we stay focused so we can keep our rhythm whenever we get back on the field.   
I think that's probably one of the biggest things.   
 Q.  That was along the lines of what DeShone said, as well.  Why is it difficult to maintain that focus, especially after you've gotten off to a good start and have an opportunity to build upon that success?  
TORII HUNTER, JR.: I just think that, you know, sometimes you go up and you kind of, I mean, have mental lapses.   
I think if we just stay focused on putting opponents completely out of the game, we'll be able to overcome that, be the offense that we can be for an entire four quarters.   
 Q.  This is usually a week where most of our questions are for the guys on the defensive side of the ball because of the style of offense they're playing.  Possessions are so precious for you guys when you're playing a team like this.  Do you feel a little bit more pressure to score faster or really maximize every time you have an opportunity with the football?  
TORII HUNTER, JR.: Yeah, I think we really put an importance on scoring every time we get the ball because it is important.  I think if you look at the game last week, USF, they went up by a lot, but it ended up being a 10-point game in the end.   
It's important to always, you know, cherish those possessions when you have them going against a team like Navy.   
 Q.  You started really well in goal-to-goal situations, a lot of field goals in the last four games.  What is the challenge down in close for you as a wide receiver?  Do you change your approach at all inside the 10, not just in the red zone?  
TORII HUNTER, JR.: I think you have to go in there with a different mentality.  I mean, we haven't really I don't think thrown the ball that much that close.  But if we do throw the ball, you have to have of the mentality you have to make the play.  They're going to grab, they're going to hold, they're going to do everything they can to keep you from getting that ball.   
You have to go in with a different mentality that they can't stop you, that if the ball is thrown in your direction, you got to make the play.   
I think that's the only thing that's really different, is the mentality you have to play with when you go down there because it's just going to be different.  Guys are going to be more aggressive on you.   
 Q.  Navy defensively plays a lot of off-coverage.  Take what they give you.  What is that like as a wide receiver?  Is it frustrating or something where you don't mind catching a lot of hitches and having room afterwards?  
TORII HUNTER, JR.: I mean, I don't mind it at all.  If they're going to give it to us, we might as well take it, see if they can tackle us.   
I mean, if they are willing to play that type of coverage, then we'll take it.  We'll take what they give us.   
 Q.  Are you comfortable back in the slot?  You've been playing everything the last couple years.  Seems like you found your old home again.  
TORII HUNTER, JR.: I mean, yeah, I'm comfortable in the slot.  But, I mean, wherever they need to play me, they've moved me around a lot, especially this year.  But I'm definitely comfortable in the slot.  I kind of get to feel my way around a lot more, kind of read the defenses.   
That's what I was used to over the last couple years.  So, yeah, I guess I'm kind of comfortable there.   
 Q.  When we talk to the nickels here, they say the challenge is a two-way go.  Is that what you relish, the ability to take it either direction?  
TORII HUNTER, JR.: Yeah, the option routes are pretty good.  I like those a lot.  You really get to kind of mess with the defender a little bit, show off your ability a little bit.  I kind of like the option routes, for sure.   
 Q.  What have you seen from Kevin Stepherson since the spring?  
TORII HUNTER, JR.: I've seen him grow a lot.  He's been a guy that I've been trying to really feed him what he needs to grow and stuff, and mature.  He came here, you know, as basically a second semester senior in high school.  He had a lot of growing up to do immediately.  Just been trying to feed him that.   
He's grown up a lot over the last couple of months.  I'm excited to see the player he's going to become over the next couple years.  He's explosive.  He can catch.  Not too many people with cover him.  I mean, he's going to be exciting to watch over the next couple years.   
 Q.  We've asked Coach Kelly what makes him such a good, young talent.  He talks about catching the ball in stride and staying at full speed, which is an asset you have as well.  Is that something you have to learn, to be able to be playing at full speed before you actually catch the pass?  
TORII HUNTER, JR.: Yeah, so, I mean, it's just having confidence that you can catch.  If you feel like you got to slow down so you can catch the ball, that's kind of what breaks people's stride at times.   
If you can just run through the ball and, like, attack the ball, I think that's a skill you have to learn, you have to work at.   
 Q.  As an outfielder when you're running, the ball is moving around on you, is it the same way in football?  Obviously a bigger object to catch, but...  
TORII HUNTER, JR.: Yeah, I think it's kind of similar playing at full speed.  Just not having to slow down, I think that's the biggest thing.  It's a skill that you have to work at and get more comfortable with over time.   
He's definitely ahead of where a lot of guys were at his age.   
 Q.  Not asking you to tell us what your decision is going to be at the end of the season with another year of eligibility.  Do you feel like baseball is a legitimate option for you or are you focused on football mainly post Notre Dame?  
TORII HUNTER, JR.: It's definitely an option.  But we'll see at the end of the year where I am.  We'll talk to my family and coaches and see which direction is best for me, so...   
 Q.  Are you a better football player or baseball player?  
TORII HUNTER, JR.: I have no idea.  We'll see (laughter).   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT