ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 14, 2018
Stephen Gallacher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








STEPHEN GALLACHER: The wind the last couple of days, it's getting gusty now.  Definitely done well to post a score early doors.
Q. Just how difficult are the conditions in comparison to the last couple days?
STEPHEN GALLACHER: Just typical links.  The wind can change mid-round with the tied and it's a totally different direction today.  You have to think about holes that you're driving.
Yesterday you had to lay up, but we hit, me and Thomas, we both hit 5-iron 300 yards down the last, just a foot short of the bunker and yesterday you couldn't reach it with driver.  That's the beauty of links.  You've got to think all the time.  Nothing's for granted and just think that's why I love it.
Q. When you were here a couple weeks ago, you hit driver about 380 yards.  Were you tempted at the last to have a go?
STEPHEN GALLACHER: If I'd been driving the ball better I would have but not after yesterday --
Q. You were almost in the ice cream van.
STEPHEN GALLACHER: In the tented village.  I was happy enough, 5-iron, wedge, pretty good numbers.
Q. Last few days have been a big turnaround.  I know you were hugely disappointed with the two rounds in Ireland?
STEPHEN GALLACHER: Yeah, I've been struggling to be honest.  Though I've been working hard on my technique this week, just trying to make my bad shots better.  My bad shots have been penal, so trying to get them where they are back in the ballpark and less -- that you can make pars from them, basically.  It's getting better and better every day.
Today was really good.  Only hit a couple wayward drives but they were just in the side of the fairway, so you could play with that, hence the reason you could go bogey-free.
Q. Just inside the Top-10 at the moment.  You could be in contention.
STEPHEN GALLACHER: That was the plan, just to try -- obviously when you're nine shots behind, you've got to try and go as low as you can over the weekend and see what happens.
Yeah, it was a good score today.  I think Thomas played well, as well, 6-under.  We kept each other going well.  We both played good golf, so nice to play.  I don't know how long of a round, felt like three hours or something.  It was a great way to spend your morning.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT