OMEGA MISSION HILLS WORLD CUP
November 24, 2011
Stephen Gallacher
Martin Laird
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Successful day?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Brilliant.   Great way to finish.   Just saying coming down sort of 14, 15, we had done well and nothing had really went for us; if we could have a strong finish.   With Martin's chip‑in at 16 and the bunker shot on the last, certainly done that.   
   
 Q.   Presumably you're conscious of what Australia achieved in scoring, it's only day one but you want to be amongst them?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   You can't win it but you can lose it.   So it's important to stay with the pace early on and see what happens at the weekend.   
Four‑balls is where you can score the lowest.   Foursomes tomorrow, we are looking forward to it.   We are both playing solid.   Should be good.   
   
 Q.   When is the last time did you play in that format?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I said to Martin, it was the 2005 World Cup and then it would be the Walker Cup in 1995.   
   
 Q.   You can't really practise it particularly?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   No, you can't practise it.   There's maybe a few holes that suit one player or whatever, and you just have to work around that.   
   
 Q.   So players similar distances should dovetail well?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Very similar‑‑ we don't really know who is playing what yet.   Have not decided.   
   
 Q.   But there will be decisions and strategy involved.   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Yeah, we'll talk about it.   
   
 Q.   What's it like in terms of four‑balls, do you look after your own game or consult and work as a team?   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Just play your own game.   
   
 Q.   Some teams have different approaches, depends on the players?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Martin plays on the American tour, and we're friends, but we're not really‑‑ we don't know each other's games well enough.   I've played a few times practise in stuff, so don't really know each other's strengths and weaknesses as such.   It's pretty similar.   
   
 Q.   Am I right to presume you've been relishing this opportunity to represent the country?   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Yeah, you always do, that every time I've been fortunate to do it‑‑ and doing it professionally, it's just as big an emotion as amateur.   
   
 Q.   I guess the World Cup is on the rise once again, because you look back to some great traditions down the years and great names to have played, and it fell away just a little bit, but it's right up there again, isn't it.   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   You only need to look at the resort here and the infrastructure and logistics that went into it.   It's a big, big event.   Loving it.   It's great.   
  
 Q.   How do you reflect on the first day?  
MARTIN LAIRD:   Obviously very happy.   Any time you finish as well as we did, and shoot 9‑under, you're going to be happy it.   Was a little tricky out there in the wind.   So I've said, there is a long way to go but we are in a good position so far.  
   
 Q.   On a tricky course, as well.   
MARTIN LAIRD:   There's room off the tee but after that is when it gets interesting.   It's a second shot golf course with all of the tiers on the greens.   We both hit the ball well and obviously played well.  
   
 Q.   Obviously one hole stands out, the 16th, with what's been achieved there across the day?  
MARTIN LAIRD:   Yeah it was nice, that was the only hole all day where one of us had to pick up.   I got a little lucky with my pitch going in, but always take that.   We kind of felt like we got a little unlucky in the front nine, we had a couple lip‑outs on the front nine even and one on the back nine each, so maybe that was it swinging around on one hole, and all evens out in the end.   
   
 Q.   Were you conscious of the scoring with Australia going so clear?  
MARTIN LAIRD:   Yeah, when we started off they were already a budge under par.   That's what it's going to be like in four‑balls because it frees everyone up.   You have a partner sitting in the middle of the green and you are taking dead aim on your second shot.   
There's always going to be birdies and it's fun to play like that.   You don't often get to play team events so it's fun when you have got that.   And as I said, Stephen hit the ball great today and I hit it pretty solid, too.   We were always in each hole.   
   
 Q.   Do you two dovetail well?  
MARTIN LAIRD:   Yeah, we get on well and we hit the ball about identical distance to be honest.   So for the foursomes, that's going to help definitely.   It's not like we are wondering who to playoff each holing.   We can probably go either way and it wouldn't make a difference.   It's definitely a nice advantage when you both hit the ball pretty much identical distances.  
   
 Q.   And you know each other well enough despite playing opposite sides of the pond?  
MARTIN LAIRD:   Yeah, played a few practise rounds with Steven when he's been over in America the last couple of years and got to know him from that and get on well, so it's a good team.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT