THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 14, 2011
Stephen Gallacher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   STEPHEN GALLACHER: It was very cold, I'll tell you that. Two jumpers and an Under Armour. I had to get this before I went out because it was so cold, just one of these base layers that keep you warm and hold your belly in (Laughter).   
  
  Q. You played well.   
 STEPHEN GALLACHER: Yeah, I'm happy with that. Didn't really do much wrong. Front nine, couple of loose shots there -- I actually didn't play that well on the back nine. I drove it a bit poorer but hit my irons well. I hit a lot of good putts. Basically that's all you can ask for, hit it on the line and that's what I've been struggling to do. Hit a lot of nice putts.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 STEPHEN GALLACHER: Yeah, well, it was the same kind of wind yesterday, so they moved a few tees up, moved the 11th up so it was a 3-iron. But the course is -- you just get some bounces here and there, and just proper links, old-fashioned.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 STEPHEN GALLACHER: I was 3-over after 10, hit a poor shot at 9, hit it in the rough, chipped it sideways, but apart from that I hadn't really done anything wrong.   
 But I had a really good drive at 10, hit it just short of the green, chipped it stiff. So from there -- yeah, the back nine is almost tougher. It's into the wind. So I was delighted with that.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 STEPHEN GALLACHER: 10 got me back, because I lipped out 9 for par. I holed out at 11. I was just short of the green, I chipped up to about 15 feet and from there it got my momentum going. You've got to be so patient around here because you can hit good shots and it just runs off into the rough, and once you're in the rough you can't attack the flags, so you're going to be hitting it to 20, 30, 40 feet a lot. You've got to hit the fairways. If you hit the fairways, you can attack the flags.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 STEPHEN GALLACHER: Well, I'd rather be warm. If I had the option I'd rather be warm.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT