JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 27, 2010
Stephen Gallacher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   STEPHEN GALLACHER: I game of two halves from yesterday to today. Played lovely yesterday. Played terrible today. I drove it really bad today. I was the cabbage more than I was on the fairway.   
  
  Q. Considering the circumstances --  
 STEPHEN GALLACHER: But my short game was brilliant today. Phenomenal, really. It's a great 2-under. Keeps me in it rather than the way I did play.   
  
  Q. That's what you were talking about, your short game getting your good scores, where previously --  
 STEPHEN GALLACHER: If I hit the ball well, I hit 15, 16 greens, and you don't really need much of a short game for that. But if you're struggling a wee bit, you've got to have a lie, haven't you. Simple as that.   
 That's the only real secret to scoring, isn't it, you've just got to get up-and-down when you hit a bad shot, take your chances. I 2-putted the ninth, hit it stiff twice, but didn't really have many chances after that.   
 If you're struggling to get up-and-down, you can't even really build a score.   
  
  Q. The bogey, you got a bit frustrated with yourself, did you take a bit too much off that bunker shot?  
 STEPHEN GALLACHER: I probably should have, yeah. I tried to just hit it clean and I fatted it. If I hit a lob-wedge, I only need 8-iron in. I duffed it. Maybe I could have hit it sideways, but it's still a tough shot. Didn't really matter. Just a poor tee shot again.  
  
  Q. Where were you when the delay happened?   
 STEPHEN GALLACHER: 13th tee. Pea soup; easy tee shot after that. Stood there for 35 minutes, something like that. No, the course is excellent, absolutely brilliant.   
  
  Q. Great shape for the weekend?  
 STEPHEN GALLACHER: Yeah, just go and do a bit of work on the range for an hour and take it easy.   
  
  Q. Will your wee boy come back to school happy?  
 STEPHEN GALLACHER: He will, aye, he'll be delighted. He'll be delighted. He's taking his iTouch so he can go in on it and just check the scores. He's been a good boy all week. He wasn't very happy last night; he wanted to come to the golf.   
  
  Q. So the swing is not far away?   
 STEPHEN GALLACHER: No, just a wee bit of timing. I just kept going with it. I didn't want to muck about. I hit a few decent ones on the back nine when I needed to, the tight holes. I got a good drive away at 5. Sort of 5, and 9 is a good drive, because I hit driver rescue on to the green, hit it 340 down there.   
 So it's not far away. I'll go and work with Bob for half an hour now or something like that.  
  
  Q. As you mentioned yesterday, you have a very good record here, four Top-10s. Obviously a course that suits your eye?  
 STEPHEN GALLACHER: Yeah, it does. I like it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT