THE CELTIC MANOR WALES OPEN
June 5, 2010
Stephen Gallacher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   GORDON SIMPSON: A lovely eagle three at the last to break the course record by two shots, and you've struck a rich vein of form in the last few weeks. What's clicked? 
 STEPHEN GALLACHER: I don't really know. Just a little more belief in myself I think and working hard on my short game and making the putts when you need to. It's hard to put my finger on it but I just seem to have a bit more quality to my shots and stuff like that.
 GORDON SIMPSON: The fact that you had such a good finish at Wentworth, it's obviously cleared the mind, and you can now focus on your game without out any card worries hanging over you.
 STEPHEN GALLACHER: You try and prepare as well as you can for the big tournaments, and you try and expect it. So it's just a process of trying to do the right things all the time and hopefully you get a couple rolling in. 

 Q. Work on anything this afternoon?
 STEPHEN GALLACHER: Not really, no. You know, I've been knackered all week to be honest, but I'm just trying to rest up as much as I can. You know when it's quite calm, there is the possibility that you might be able to get up to 18 and you might be able to -- like 15, I had a 15-footer, as well, because they changed the tee but I double-bogeyed that yesterday because I couldn't get up over the trees. So it was a better tee for me today. It just suited my eye better today.
 GORDON SIMPSON: What did you have left at 18? 
 STEPHEN GALLACHER: 242, knocked it three feet past with a rescue club. 

 Q. What have you been doing to keep the tiredness at bay?
 STEPHEN GALLACHER: I've just been doing a bit of physio and stretching in the room and eating in the room with Big Al (Alastair Forsyth), around six o'clock, something like that, then just lying in bed watching the television. 

 Q. 
 STEPHEN GALLACHER: I can't even remember it to be honest. I was on steroids and stuff like that, so I had a quite a few side effects. I couldn't sleep much and stuff like that. I was sleeping during the day. I had to sleep during the day and getting 12 hours at night. Generally I feel okay now. 
 I'm feeling good, I'm stretching in the room and just trying to chill out. It's hard the last few weeks when the weather has been hot, as well. When you finish Top-10 and you're in contention, it takes more out of you mentally than anything else. We use up a lot of energy, so it's understandable to be more tired than usual.

 Q. What's made the difference this year?
 STEPHEN GALLACHER: I'm driving the ball good. I've changed driver to Taylormade and it's amazing, the par 5s, I can get it on in two and I hit it on in 15 today. I've got more comfortable with it.

 Q. Inaudible.
 STEPHEN GALLACHER: It's hard to say. You can play great with anything for one week. I think links golf suits me a bit better. I hit a lot of rubbish shots, hit it to the left and hit it to the right, so it was one of those days where everything clicked. 

 Q. Did you have some worrying moments after getting tests for your illness last year?
 STEPHEN GALLACHER: Well, you do, you believe you will get better, but the doctor said it would take a year, year and a half before it was fully out of the system. I had a biopsy for cancer and the doctors were 95% sure it wasn't, but that oterh 5% is always worrying. But I feel the minute I came off the steroids, the minute I felt great; more refreshed. 

 Q. What exactly was wrong?
 STEPHEN GALLACHER: It was a strange illness called sarcoidosis which affects the auto-immune system. It started with a cough in Dubai last year and I became more and more tired and the cough wouldn't got for three months and I had to get the tests done when the cough started making me sick. I was really, really exhausted. It can affect any organ. I thought it might be a blessing, anyway when I had to miss most of the second half of the season. You get stale and sometimes you need something to make you think what you're doing and to take stock. Now I am back and I have my hunger back as well. I want to play and I want to do well. 
 My tiredness at the moment isn't anything to do with the illness. Just a case of doing a lot of playing and driving my car and these things, with a lot of hot weather, would make anyone tired.I drove up the road from Wentworth, got in half past two and went straight out on Tuesday morning. Drove up the road Sunday night, came up here Tuesday night, and -- was terrified, I think everybody will be. It was tough last week, it was a hilly course and this is no walk in the park, either. This is a long, big course.
 And hoping to attend Open Final Qualifying on Monday, as well, and taking two weeks off. 

 Q. What did you do today to combat fatigue?
 STEPHEN GALLACHER: Just crammed in as much as I could! Just bananas, sandwiches, you name it. I think I had three protein bars and two bananas, and that was after a full breakfast. 

 Q. Did you think you could reach the last in two?
 STEPHEN GALLACHER: It was downhill, , so I knew I could get on comfortably if the wind and if it stayed there I would get to the middle of the green. I missed four greens and I totally stiffed it four times, so it's pretty easy. Not much to do. 

 
 Q. Best score ever on Tour?
 STEPHEN GALLACHER: It's in my Top-5. I've had a few. Best on Tour is 9-under. It's a tough course with the way it's set up -- you know, you've only got -- there's a few holes out there, thank heavens yesterday was so tough, the wind was swirling. It's almost a case of you had good fortune yesterday. It's good to be back in the tournament again and looking forward to tomorrow.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT