TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
November 3, 2017
Stephen Gallacher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  The final total doesn't always tell the story.  65 today.  Give us your version of how it happened?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER: It was pretty good, actually.  I hit a lot of fairways and gave myself a lot of chances, and when the greens are as good as that, you're going to see some putts rolled in.   
 Q.  I understand that Butch Harmon, Bernard Gallacher and John Jacobs have all had a hand in this improvement.  Tell us how.  
STEPHEN GALLACHER: And my coach, as well, Alan McCloskey.  I've been struggling a bit hitting it left and Bernard sent me his book.  And I think it was at John's funeral, and Butch stood up and said everything he ever learned was sort of out of John Jacobs' manual.  He just says to me, "Go back to basics."  That's what John's book is about and that's what my coach teaches, as well.   
I've just changed my grip.  I've completely weakened my right-hand grip purely because it's one of the fundamentals and it's something that I needed to do but maybe not the right time.  But here I am, no bogeys after 36 holes and not really hit any shots left.  I should have done it earlier.   
 Q.  As a coach I know how difficult that is to do.  Changing your grip is such an awkward feeling.  Has it felt difficult?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER: It feels horrendous over the ball.  That's when you know it's going to make a change if you stick with it.  That's why my coach never mentioned it.  He was going to say it after the.   
Tournament.  But when you want to enjoy the game, and nobody likes hitting it left, I thought to myself, you know what, I'm just going to give it a go anyway.  Practised hard last week and feels terrible, but you've just got to go with it.  When you hit good shots, it makes it easier.   
 Q.  Two rounds of golf, no dropped shots and plenty of birdies.  You must be pleased with the way things have gone on this golf course.  
STEPHEN GALLACHER: Yeah, I'm hitting the ball well off the tee and giving myself some chances.  The greens are fantastic, so you can see the ball rolling in.   
 Q.  We were talking yesterday about having to keep in play off the tee because of the trees and how tight it is, and a lot of double-bogeys out there.  To keep bogeys off the card is no mean feat, really.  
STEPHEN GALLACHER: Yeah, I'm pleased.  If I got out of position in a couple times in the round, I managed to chip-and-putt well.   
But you're right; the whole course is sort of about getting in position.  If you get out of position, get it in back in position as soon as you can.  It's a great golf course and fantastic condition, as well.   
 Q.  You talk about putting.  Your putts from ten and 20 feet today seem to be pretty solid on this course.  
STEPHEN GALLACHER: Yeah, you know, you get a few putts going in early and you can sort of see the line and you can see the ball going in.  They are fantastic, as well.  Again it's one of those ones, I gave myself plenty of chances.  It's nice to take them.   
 Q.  You're 78th on The Race to Dubai, plenty of points being a Rolex Series event this week.  So a big performance here and you could get into Dubai, which would be fantastic.  
STEPHEN GALLACHER: Well, that's the key was coming here to try and get into Sun City and Dubai and turn a garbage year into a really good year.  You know, you've got three fantastic events and when you've got a Rolex Series event with a small field, you can go up places.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT