ABU DHABI HSBC CHAMPIONSHIP
January 19, 2017
Stephen Gallacher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Winning Dubai, one of the highlights --  
STEPHEN GALLACHER: I would say Dubai, yeah, definitely up there.  I think getting your first win, especially at the Home of Golf was nice, and a couple in Dubai, yeah, Ryder Cup.  I've had some great highs and a few lows but I wouldn't change it for the world.   
 Q.  Touch on The Ryder Cup for a little bit.  Home country, must have been another highlight?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER: Yeah, part of the winning team, home turf, seeing all your family, brilliant.  Yeah, I'd love to play another one, so give it another go.   
 Q.  What's changed on Tour over the last 21 years?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER: I'd say the course is in better condition.  When I first came on Tour, there were still guys using woods, persimmon.  I would say just the standard of golf's changed.  Back in the day, it was the same guys winning all the time.  But now, if you're in the field, you've got a chance.   
You know, the opportunities we've got now, as well, the Tour is phenomenal with the Rolex Series and all this is immense.  We're getting closer to the PGA TOUR month-by-month.   
 Q.  When you first came out, what are your memories?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER: My first memory, I used to go watch my uncle play Bell's Scottish Open at Gleneagles, and I won the Scottish amateur when I was 17 and that qualified you to get in the Bell's Scottish Open and I played at Gleneagles in 1993.  I remember it being the hardest golf course I've of seen in my life.  I used to go and watch it and the greens were like twice as fast as I ever putted on.  It started in '93.   
 Q.  What were you like when you walked on the range that week?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER: What do you think?  Cool as a cucumber.  It's totally different, isn't it.  You're like a fish out of water.  Even my first couple years on Tour, took me until I went on to The Challenge Tour in '98 and played a full year on The Challenge Tour and got my card after that.  I think when you come out -- Walker Cup and that, you don't really need to do -- it's just experience.  You don't need to try to reinvent the wheel and stuff like that.   
 Q.  So 21 years now, you walk down that range, and it's unbelievable, isn't it?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER: You feel part of it.  You feel like you belong.  That's half the battle is feeling like you belong on Tour, and once you do that, you have a chance at longevity, like I've done.   
 Q.  Any funniest memories?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER: Every day is funny.  I'm not exactly a serious guy to be honest.  Every day is funny.  But yeah, I've had some great times down the years.  That's why I say I'm blessed; I've been to some parts of the world, met some nice people, friends, doing something you love.  There's not many jobs you can say that.   
 Q.  It's pretty special, isn't it?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER: It is, 21 years.  The only thing is I feel like I'm retired.  I'm looking at all the stuff I've done, there's a wee bit of life left in the old dog.  But it's been great recognition.  You know, if it was easy to do, a lot of people would have done it but there's not many people have done it.   
 Q.  Some great names on that list.  
STEPHEN GALLACHER: Yeah, even better now.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT