ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 4, 2015
Stephen Gallacher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
STEPHEN GALLACHER: It was always going to be tough when you turn back into the wind.  I think you wanted to be off the 10th this morning and have it downwind, downwind, and we kind of got it a wee bit -- it was really tricky when you turned back.  A wind we've not had all week.   
 Q.  How was the week as a whole?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER: Yeah, played good.  Put four decent rounds together, which is nice, haven't done that for awhile.  It's good to do it around these course, as well.  Although the weather was pretty kind, Carnoustie was still a two-club wind for 12 holes and they tucked the pins away here the other day, as well.   
It's just nice to play a tournament.  I love this tournament and three of my favourite courses.  Just a shame, if I had came back, maybe a couple 2- or 3-under and posted a score, who knows.   
 Q.  You're going to be moving up quite a few places in The Race to Dubai I would think.  
STEPHEN GALLACHER: That's just a bonus.  I was trying to finish as high up as I could.  I had a couple of 3-putts coming in there and hit the hole a couple of times, knocked it in a bunker and before you know it, you've dropped three shots.  It's one of those courses.  But on the whole, I'm delighted with the week.  I played good again today.   
 Q.  Anything in particular in the game?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER: I've changed a bit, my swing, so it's just hard to change midseason.  You know, little bits and hard to change when you're playing, especially on tough golf courses.  You want to be free-flowing when you come to tournaments now.  I felt I was getting a wee bit more that way this week.  It's still not 100 per cent but it's getting there.  I see a big improvement, so I'm happy.   
 Q.  How was Jimmy Mullen?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER: Top lad.  Just good for him to sort of -- he's playing Challenge Tour next week and then I think he's going to go to PQ2.  He's done PQ1.  I'm sure he'll get through it.  He's a good player and level head on his shoulders, as well.  Good talent.  Nice to see the guy's up there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT