ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 1, 2015
Stephen Gallacher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








STEPHEN GALLACHER: I tell you what, the courses are unbelievable.  Best I've ever seen them.
Q. Good day at the office?
STEPHEN GALLACHER: It was nice.  It was good.  Started off spinning a ball back into the burn at the first.  First time I had ever hit it -- that was a strange one.  But as Shevchenko says, it's the first minute, 90 minutes left.
Q. He said that?
STEPHEN GALLACHER: No, I said that to him (laughter).  My football analogy.  Like losing a goal in the first minute, plenty of time.
It was a really good fourball.  I always quite enjoy this format.  You get a good talk and a good sort of laugh.  It is long if you but if get good company like today, it just flies.
Q. He's a decent player, isn't he?
STEPHEN GALLACHER: He's good.  He's scratch.  I wished he'd have fudged his handicap, pick up a few more shots.  You can see he's played outside -- he's a great links player.
Q. What was the highlights of the day?
STEPHEN GALLACHER: Actually left some out there to be honest.  Drove it on 9, 3-putted it.  Drove it on 12, 3-putted it.  Was up on both par 5s, one of those ones where I played really, really solid.  I hit a few couple of drives, leaked three drives and got a away with them and that was it.
Q. You say you like the format.  Being a football man yourself, that must have added?
STEPHEN GALLACHER: Well, I had never met Andriy before.  I've played with Kroy three or four times.  It's the hierarchy of the football echelons, is it not.  I didn't mind until Shevchenko told he us he scored a winner at Parkhead for AC Milan.
Q. Performance-wise?
STEPHEN GALLACHER: As good as I've played for awhile.  Struggled but changing coaches -- strange time to do it.  Wouldn't have been preferential but it's hard to play when you're changing stuff.
It's all right if you can take a bit of time off but it takes a wee bit of time to sort of commit to it and trust it.  But at least coming back to a place like this that you know really well.  I just sort of let it go a bit more, my swing thoughts and that.
Q. Much changed?
STEPHEN GALLACHER: A lot changed to be honest.  My body feels better for it.  I'm not in as much pain as I have been and that's the first plus point, and I know when I get it, it's going to be good.  Just have to work a wee bit harder at it.
Q. Birdies?
STEPHEN GALLACHER: The fourth hole, really that was an Open flag, that one, that was a beauty.  Back left, hit a drive, probably 9-iron yardage and turned it into the wind about eight-foot behind the hole and knocked it in.
That and 13 are two of the tougher holes, but I hit the drive really good, 340 down the middle on both of them.  I drove it good today apart from a couple.  Really happy.  Looking forward to Carnoustie tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT