MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 9, 2015
Stephen Gallacher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What was different in today's round compared to last year's round?
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I can't remember last week's round.
Anytime you shoot under par at this place, you just need one really good one, and three half decent ones, and you're defending. 

Q.   What time did you get up this morning?
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   About 5.   Came up this morning, had a stretch, watched the ceremonial thing.

Q.   You said yesterday you were going to be feeling nervous on the first tee.   Were there any sort of butterflies?
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I think you're always excited and a bit apprehensive.   But that's why you play the game.   It's more exciting if you can get excited and a wee bit nervous.   But Augusta is something.

Q.   What was the best thing about your round today?
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Just a shot under par, really.   I had a couple of wayward flies, 14, 15 and managed to get away with‑‑ a couple three‑putts, but if you hit it on the wrong side you have a chance of doing that.   Anytime you're shooting under par you're delighted. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   No, it was behind that tree, hooked it around, hit it too far, nearly went in the water and chipped in.   I was just on the front of the green.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Actually I was about three foot, which is nice. 

Q.   How about 10?
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   3‑wood, 7‑iron to about six foot. 

Q.   You're had two practice sessions this week. 
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I've not played for about a month or something, maybe five weeks.   So I just‑‑ I know I've got four big tournaments in five weeks, so I'm just trying to pace myself, especially around here.   It takes out your mental and physical.

Q.   How were the conditions out there today compared to‑‑
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   The greens were maybe a little bit softer because of the heavy downpour we had.   The course is perfect.   You can't fault it in the slightest.   It's fair.   But some tough pins you're going to get. 
And you know the wind picked up the last four or five holes, which has caused these problems.   That's the biggest problem is when the wind gusts.   At least when it's constant‑‑ but when it gusts, especially the back nine it can cause havoc. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Yeah, lovely guys.   Well played, solid, kept each other going. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I had a good chance at 17 and‑‑ well, you can't force anything.   You've just got to try and hit it in the right spot and pick your best opportunity to make putts.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I think I'm going to take my sons to get some stuff. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   All you do is try to prepare as well as you can, and get in contention on Sunday.   Just prepare like any other week, you're trying to get your game in shape, good enough to have a chance.   And whether you do or not is a different thing. 
But Sunday if you're in contention‑‑ you need one decent 4, 5‑under, if you can have that, that gets you right up the board.   The guy that wins this is going to have a bogey, it's just the fewer the better. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT