OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 1, 2015
Stephen Gallacher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Second, first, first, third, not a bad return for the Dubai Desert Classic.   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Yeah, that's pretty good, and a 10th in front of that, as well.   Been a good hunting ground for me.   It was a good week.   I'm delighted with the week.   Obviously it was tough out there today and tough to chase the world's No. 1 from so far back.   Kind of playing for second place, so delighted with my performance.   
   
 Q.   Your thoughts on how the final round mapped up?   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   It was a tough day.   It was one of those where the wind was swirling a bit, a couple of shots here or there, and on the whole, 3‑under is a pretty good score.  
   
 Q.   Not a bad start to the season.   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I made a conscious effort to do too much in the winter.   Wanted to come back and pick up where I left off last season after having such a good season.   It's going to plan so far.  
   
 Q.   What's the plan from here?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I play Malaysia and then I'm taking a bit off and then I'm going to the States for three weeks.  
   
 Q.   Nice preparation for the heat you'll expect in KL?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   This is cold compared to there but lucky I've got a tan so I'm okay.   
Played lovely today.   Probably the best I played all week.   Just hit it that good.   I was hitting it through the wind and couldn't get it pin‑high.   It was a tough day.   I'm delighted with that.   It was great to keep in contention.   That's all you can do.   Yeah, move on from now.   
   
 Q.   Everybody is playing for second place, really?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Realistically, yeah.   It's pretty good from the front.   I was way back.   You needed to be three or four to have a chance.   So you're trying to get as low as you can and get up the board and tough day like that; it's a tough day.   I think everybody in swirling wind, it's tough to get it pin‑high.   Just a knuckle day, just knuckle down and take your chances.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT