OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 31, 2015
Stephen Gallacher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Was it a hard‑working day out there? 
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Yeah, it was tough.   The wind got up today, plus the greens were a bit firmer.   Really, really tough to get the ball close to the hole.

Q.   But you must love that back nine, all through the front nine.   Everyone kept saying, "Wait until Stevie gets on the back nine." 
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I think it's because I played the front nine so poor, today, anyway.   The front nine I couldn't seem to get much going at all.   I had a chance at 13, hit a lovely drive in the corner and looking at an 8‑iron and I make par, so kind of stopped me a wee bit in my tracks. 
It was a tough scoring day, apart from Rory going out 5‑under, not much you can do when the leader goes out in 5‑under.   You're still in there for tomorrow.   You never know what can happen, if I get it hot on the front nine.

Q.   Did you pay much attention to what he was doing today? 
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   No, I seen what he was doing but obviously we can't control what he was doing.   Just had to try to get as low a back nine as I could, really, to stay in touch.

Q.   So tomorrow, what's the plan?
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Just shoot as low as we can. 

Q.   Hard work out there today? 
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   The wind picked up and dried the greens right out.   It was tough to get the ball close, especially the front flag.   It was a good club and a bit of wind and when you add that to firm greens, you've got to really be coming from the fairway.   If you're a bit off line, you know you're really struggling to hit the green.

Q.   And yet a score like this, keeps you in the mix. 
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Yeah, it was a tough scoring day.   Had to dig deep the back nine.   I didn't feel like anything was sort of going for me today.   I didn't feel particularly good but I hung in there, still in contention with one round to go. 

Q.   That's the nature of this silly game sometimes; you have to dig in and be patient. 
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Yeah, just kept on being a wee bit out here and there, misread a few putts and just one of those days.   You have it and might all drop tomorrow, that's the beauty of this game.

Q.   What are your thoughts into Sunday?
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Try to have as many birdies as we can, really, and try to push a score. 
You can't really worry about anybody else.   You've just got to try and put as low a number as I can on the board and see what happens from there.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT