OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 30, 2015
Stephen Gallacher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  STEPHEN GALLACHER:   When you're late early, you know you're going to be behind when you tee it up.   So the challenge is to try and not be too far away going into the weekend. 

Q.   What's making the scoring so low and the leaderboard so competitive? 
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I think the course is just in unbelievable condition.   The greens are perfect, so if you get the sort of run of the green, you can see it going in.   The par 5s are reachable, and just good play.

Q.   Are we seeing anything different about the Stephen Gallacher going for three in a row under a little pressure after the double on 12; are you any different than you were before?
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Not at all.   I was in a footprint on 12.   I tried to thin one low and just came out terrible.   It was one of those things.   I know there's chances out there.   You've just got to try and stay present.   I know I can shoot some birdies out there.   It's nice to just be a couple back.

Q.   Overall coming into this class of field, knowing what you wanted to do, how do you assess your situation going into the weekend? 
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I'm delighted, delighted with the way I played today.   That was the strongest I think I've played around here.   I gave myself a lot of chances.   I got the putts late at the end but to be in touch going into the weekend is exactly where you want to be.

Q.   I heard you say that's one of the strongest you've felt around here.   That's saying something as a two‑time champion?
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   It was quite tricky today.   The wind was quite blustery at the end.   I felt I gave myself so many chances and that's all you can do.   I just stayed patient and I got the putts at the end so I was delighted with the finish.

Q.   15, mightily close and a bit of a fist pump with Ernie?
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   We thought it was close but didn't realise it was as close as that.

Q.   Satisfied with two rounds like this to putt yourself into that challenging position in the weekend? 
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Definitely, the way I'm playing, I gave myself plenty of chances.   All you can be is in touch going into the last couple of days and see what happens from. 

Q.   Is this a nice progression on from Qatar through here? 
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Yeah, Qatar was just‑‑ I was rusty.   It was always going to be the case, you just get the rust out the door and good thing finishing on a Saturday, gives you a few more days to get a bit of practice, so it was good.

Q.   Are you looking at leaderboards?
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I knew I was going to be behind.   When you're early/late, you're always going to be behind.   All you try to do is get as close a margin as you can.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT