OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 29, 2015
Stephen Gallacher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You looked comfortable out there.   What were your thoughts on that performance? 
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   To be honest, I was a bit ropey in practice.   Didn't feel good.   Just kind of went back into my old habits.   But I worked hard today.   I had to think a bit more consciously about the swing and whatnot, which I don't like doing, but it was good in the end.

Q.   A fantastic finish; what happened down 18?   The ball seemed to being lying okay.   Did you take a drop off the walkway?
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Yeah, took a drop off the walkway and had a better lie.   I hit the big ball first unfortunately. 

Q.   What did you feel were the conditions? 
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I thought the course was in unbelievable condition.   The green keeper, Craig, it gets better every year you come here.   You know, there was not much wind and it was quite soft, as well, so it was playing a bit longer.   If you hit it in the rough, the rough is very penal, as well.   So you can see if you're out of position, you can rack up some numbers.

Q.   Any particular hole in world golf is a favourite bit of real estate? 
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I think the 13th's quite good to me.

Q.   Oh, why do you say that? 
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I just like the hole.   It's good to me.   Long may it continue.

Q.   14‑under for 13 attempts around that hole, lovely eagle there today out of the bunker?
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I don't want to think too much‑‑ you're putting numbers in my head now.

Q.   Really important to bring that through right to the end with a wonderful birdie, birdie finish right at the end?
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Yeah, it was a great way to end.   Hit a couple lovely putts as well that just shaved the hole coming in.   I thought was maybe going to be one of those days where I hit it to kind of 15 foot and never made anything but to make a couple at the last two, made up for it. 

Q.   You say you're struggling with your swing; are you going to go to the range?
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I'm going to hit a few balls.   I'm going to get some lunch first and hit a few balls. 

Q.   Your thoughts on starting in such a sublime fashion in the defence of your title? 
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Yeah, nice to way to start.   You can't win it the first day but you can lose it, so it's nice to keep in touch after the first round.   I like the way I finished with three threes, which was nice. 

Q.   Are you as composed and relaxed as you look at the moment? 
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   It was good.   I was always going to enjoy it.   It helps playing with Ernie and Branden, so it was a nice, easy three‑ball.

Q.   A lot to be pleased with.   Talk us through the eagle?
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I holed the bunker shot.   I hit it in the rough.   Couldn't really get there so I tried to force it into the bunker and leave myself an easier bunker shot, and I holed it, which was nice. 

Q.   You were saying in the build up there's been some extraordinary days, some extraordinary shots here.   Does that join the litany? 
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Yes, I seem to always hole a shot when I come here for some reason.   So the good thing is, I'm starting to expect it now.

Q.   And the course, which you know so well, is it looking even better this time around? 
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   It's absolutely immaculate.   I mean, it's flawless.   They have done a couple of cosmetic changes, made run‑offs.   The greens are perfect and the fairways are beautiful.   It was there.   The rough's really thick this year, and especially playing in the morning, it gets a bit tough to advance it far.   So the onus is on hitting the fairways; if you hit the fairways, you've got a chance. 

Q.   Probably a very silly question.   Can you forecast a score, given what the scoring is like on day one?
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Depends on the weather.   If it stays like this, you're looking at probably 20‑odd‑under. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT