ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 3, 2014
Stephen Gallacher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Didn't get any breaks, but apart from that, yeah, I played solid again.

Q.   How gratifying is it, Stephen, obviously after last week to then come to the first event and see yourself on the leaderboard?
    STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Yeah.   That was fun.   That's why I never really done anything after Sunday.   Just rested up and tried to be as fresh as I could, because I know‑‑ I think I was fried after the wind and rain and cold.   This is every bit as tiring as last week.   Rest part of my week now.   Just go and get some food and chill out.

Q.   How much of a culture shock has it been?   Obviously it's not the same rarified atmosphere, is it?
    STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I don't think anything is the same rarified atmosphere, to be honest.   You know the weekend is going to be good.   It's tough to get a crowd at three tournaments at three courses every day, so the crowds are split.   No.   It's just great to play these great courses.   This is Scotland in October.   You gotta be in that inclement weather.   But still there, in contention where I want to be.

Q.   Is this something where you have to sort of dig deep into your professional reserves to keep the adrenaline pumping or to replace the adrenaline that would have been there last week?
    STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I think when you stand on these golf courses as a Scott played like you don't get to get a chance to play it much, I think it gives you the impetus to keep going really.   That's all it is.   I think if it was anybody else, I'd probably have a week off, but I just love the tournament and love the courses.

Q.   And heading into the weekend, two rounds at St. Andrews.   The draw, is that advantageous to sort of get your teeth stuck into the old course for the next 36 holes?
    STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I'll tell you Monday.   It could be hell in there tomorrow.   It could be‑‑ you know, you don't know.   It's always hard to‑‑ I think on Sunday the guy who wins it has done the best regardless of the draw.   I think we've all had rain, we've all had wind.   We've all had tough courses.   So it's about the goal just now is to stay warm, stay fresh when you're out there for five hours 45.   It's quite tough to stay concentrating as well.   Glad I'm here where I am now.   I'm looking forward to two days at St. Andrews.

Q.   And an opportunity to rekindle thoughts of that great win, well, it was a few years ago now, wasn't it, but it was such an important one for your career. 
    STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Yeah.   St. Andrews is St. Andrews.   It's the home of golf, and you never get tired of playing it.   So I cannot wait to play it for a couple of times over the weekend.   







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT