MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 13, 2014
Stephen Gallacher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Well done today?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Yeah, I played good all week really.   Just a slight mishap yesterday, but felt as though I played good all week.   Drove it well.   I putted a bit better today.   That was the difference.  
   
 Q.   The 10th hole hasn't been very kind to you this week, has it?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Yeah, it's a tough hole, isn't it, 520 yards or something.   Two of the bogeys‑‑ doubled from the fairway yesterday.   That was a bit of a shocker.   But I clipped two trees today and they just spattered them away and dead.   So one of those things.   
   
 Q.   What happened at 14?   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Same thing.   I clipped the tree and it went left and I was on a grade and tried to hook it and just didn't hook it enough.   That's the thing, you've got to position here.   I bogeyed it, but it was a good bogey.  
   
 Q.   So standing here now and looking back on the four days, what sort of memories do you take away?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I've loved it.   It's been brilliant to play.   Three rounds under 72 is not bad your first experience.   Just a bit ropey with the putter yesterday and hit a few poor shots from the fairways.   But on the whole, I loved it.  
   
 Q.   Was it all you expected it to be?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   And more.   I think it's brilliant.  
   
 Q.   Some players take years to shoot like you have done this week and it takes awhile to get used to.   Did you get an immediate feel for the course?   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I think when you've watched on TV for that long, you kind of know where you want to hit it.   It's just a case of actually doing it is the key.   
The wind swirls a bit when it gets a bit warm, and especially in the bottom corner, so even at the last, right down where Joost hit, I had the same club just in front of him, comes up short, just caught it a bit.   
It is tricky out there.   I don't know if that's just the more you play, the more you sort of wait for the wind to go past or whatnot.  
   
 Q.   Is the 7th an example where you got the right spot and it almost went in?   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Yeah, you've got to hit the fairway there.   That's such a narrow drive.   It's one of the toughest holes, I think.   Where the pin was, it's in a bowl, so you could get at it if you are in the fairway.   
There's a few pins today where the ball feeds in, but you've got to be in the right place to actually get there.  
   
 Q.   Has there been a particular moment or a particular shot that you've really taken from this?   What was one of the most satisfying moments?   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I don't really know.   Just being here.   I wasn't as nervous as I thought I was going to be.   Just kind of enjoying it and just kind of going with the flow.  
   
 Q.   Family loved it as well?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Yeah, had a great week, some family and friends and stuff.   
   
 Q.   Looking to get back here next year?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Definitely, that's the key, to play well enough to be back next year.  
   
 Q.   What mementos did you take away?   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I think my credit card got hit in the merchandise.   I've got enough friends at home that there's going to be plenty of green Augusta stuff back home anyway.  
   
 Q.   What do you think you'll learn from this week going to Pinehurst and the Open?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I think Majors are Majors.   It's the toughest conditions, the toughest course, the best fields.   You've got to play on the top of your game.   You've got to be patient and everything.   The more you play on them, the more you get used to them I think.   
So like you say, I'm playing the next three, and the WGCs, as well, so it's good.   
   
 Q.   Do you think you've grown even more as a player and a person having played this week?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Yeah, definitely.   I think it's just a great experience, isn't it.   It's tough to get in, so once you get in, you've got to enjoy it.   Makes you want to come back.   
   
 Q.   The big events you're playing this year, how much are you tailoring your schedule to Ryder Cup qualification?   Are you looking at that as part of your schedule this summer?   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   That's just the schedule, basically.   It's not because it's Ryder Cup year.   It's pretty much what you're in, the WGCs and the Majors, it sort of makes your mind up for you where you're going to play.   The only one is sort of TPC I'm going to play, as well.   
   
 Q.   And Hilton Head next week?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Yeah, Hilton Head next week.   Four rounds and a tough week like this and you're going to fly to Malaysia, 13‑hour time difference; I think when you have a two‑hour drive down the road, just made sense.   And going for points, so the bigger the tournaments, the better for me, really.   
   
 Q.   Will you look again in the summertime qualification?   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   No.   I've got the tournaments I'm playing in and schedule is done pretty much till after the PGA really.   
   
 Q.   Those majors and WGCs, if you play well in those, that takes care of everything, doesn't it?   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Yeah, just one really good week and that's it.   
   
 Q.   You said you putted terrible yesterday.   Find something overnight?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Just something small had crept in.   That was all.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT