MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2014
Stephen Gallacher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about today. 
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I'm glad to be in the red numbers.   It's a bit tricky out there today.   The wind is a bit up and the greens are firming up.   So I'm delighted with par. 

Q.   Could you actually have even gone lower?
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I probably could have, but I got away with a few things and I got lucky on a couple of things.   But I think that's the course, if you get asleep or out of position, a bogey's good.

Q.   What are you most pleased with over the course of the two rounds?
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I drove the ball well again today.   I only missed one fairway.   But you got to keep your thinking, you got to get acceptance levels that are high.   You got to hit the shot and get on with it. 

Q.   You look like you've been here for 12 years, even though it is your debut.   Is that the Sandy Lyle influence?
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Yeah, I mean, it depends how you play the course.   How you set up for it, where you hit it, where you miss it, where you leave yourself. 
So it's a very strategic course.   I think everybody back home knows how to play it, it's just a case of trying to do it that's the hard part.   Generally I would say if I missed a green or anything like that, you have to be happy with bogey.

Q.   (No Microphone.)
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I wouldn't have liked to have tried to play here with a bit of wind, to be honest, and that small ball.   So I think things have changed.   But, yeah, I'm delighted in the position I'm in.

Q.   You said on Wednesday you had no expectations, but going into the weekend, what are you thinking now?
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Just do the same again.   See what happens.   Just try and get into contention on Sunday. 

Q.   What did you hit into 6 today?
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I hit an 8‑iron.   It just wandered about a few paces short and came down the green and I holed a 40‑footer up there.   Different contrast from yesterday. 
So, yeah, it was tough.   There was a lot of back flags and some wind, so if you go for it and you go a wee bit long, you're dead.   If you can get it 30 feet, sometimes that's good out here.

Q.   Did you get any guidance from anyone when you were out here earlier in the week?
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I played with Sandy Lyle and Olazabal and Jimenez and just got some pointers from them.

Q.   Did you immediately think of anything that worked over the last two days?
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Yeah, I took them both on board, to be honest.

Q.   Was 11 a good example of that, because you can't go for that spot on the edge there. 
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Yeah, well it's not a flag you go straight at it with a 3‑iron in your hand.   That's a long way.   You're just trying to get on the middle right if you're playing, regardless of where the pin is.   Then hopefully you have a good putt. 

Q.   How did 13 play today?
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Yeah, I only had a 6‑iron and I hit it a wee bit heavy.   When you're standing on a slope like this.   You know, it's one of those shots that I just completely mishit it and came up short and was too aggressive with my chip.   That's a good bogey. 

Q.   (No Microphone.)
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   No, I knew the shot. 

Q.   You played two rounds here for your first Masters, can you see why more Scots don't play here?
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   You need to win a U.S. TOUR event or get in the Top‑50.   It's as simple as that. 

Q.   Any messages last night?
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Yeah, it was a big deal overseas, the first one.   And you try and play it like you're supposed to and respond to everyone, but. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   The Georgia Open.   He's finished second before, so you got to give him a bit of credit.   But I don't have any expectations, just playing the course.   It's a nice driver's course and it's pretty strategic, but I don't mind. 

Q.   You played well at St. Andrews and Royal Melbourne, is that similar?
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   You got to be playing well.   It's one of the ones that if you don't play well, you struggle.   Because it's very strategic where you're trying to hit it. 
Melbourne is exactly the same.   St. Andrews is exactly the same.   You know the flags there very well.   On 17 you don't play for the flag, you play for the front right and just try and take your four from there.   So I see similarities all over the place. 

Q.   (No Microphone.)
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   It's good for my confidence.   I know I can compete at the highest level on a demanding golf course, because the Majors demand it, everything involved with it.   It's the toughest test for the best players, so it's good for confidence for that. 

Q.   (No Microphone.)
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   He's a great lad.   Nick Watney is a lovely fellow.   I played with him as well.   He just enjoyed it.   We were out there for five hours and just enjoying the walk, basically. 

Q.   (No Microphone.)
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   No, just good to come charging up the holes. 

Q.   (No Microphone.)
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Yesterday I had three bogeys in a row without really doing anything wrong.   So it can get away from you so quickly.   The key is to try and just consolidate and just keep playing.   Everybody is going to bogey around here.   You can hit a good shot and bogey. 

Q.   (No Microphone.)
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I know if I get upset it doesn't help me, so there's no point in doing it.   These courses it's how you accept your shot.   If you hit a bad one, it's how you accept and how you go on to the next one. 

Q.   Over 36 holes are there any particular shots that are memorable?
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I hit a lot of good shots.   A drive and a 5‑iron yesterday.   A drive and a 6‑iron today.   I've hit two good drives and two good second shots down there.

Q.   What did you hit into the last one?
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I hit a 9‑iron.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT