OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 2, 2014
Stephen Gallacher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How deep did you have to dig to win that one? 
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I think it took everything I have to be honest.   After the start it was just a plague of the front nine again but I just tried to build on yesterday's performance and just stay patient basically. 

Q.   You're 4‑over through the front nine, nothing is going right.   Tell us about what's going through your mind as that front nine progressed?
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I was quite fortunate that no one was running away with it to be honest.   I knew I was only a couple back with three par 5s and 17 you can go for.   I just tried to stay, every shot at a time, same as yesterday.

Q.   What was the turning point?   What was the moment you thought, right, we are back on track thousand?
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   When I holed the putt on 11, after not birdieing 10, I holed a nice putt there.   And then I thought, I was level with seven to go and I thought, I would have took that at the start anyway, level with seven to go and just had three birdies from then on in.

Q.   Obviously people will talk about the 10‑under par for the last ten holes yesterday but that way, you came back from a dodgy spelled in middle the day before, was that the key?
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I think yesterday was definitely the key, to be 10‑under for ten holes, and when you're trying to get yourself in contention and get yourself in the lead‑‑ that was my goal from the start, was to try to get a lead, because you can get away with dropping a shot early doors.

Q.   You're the first champion to defend the title, and it's fitting that it happens in the 25th anniversary; how special is that?
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Yeah, well, the tournament is unbelievable this week.   I've never been treated so well with the champions event and just the furor about it.   It's a great tournament, one of my favourites, but to do it on the centenary is special. 

Q.   And how excited was Jack?
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I think they have had an absolute ball to be honest.   I brought them out of school just so Jack could watch Tiger and Fred Couples up close for a couple of round and playing with Rory, as well, so hopefully that will whet his appetite to be out here as well.

Q.   Second, first, first, last three occasions you've played this championship; you'd like to roll this course up and take it home, wouldn't you? 
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I wish I could play every week, anyway, I'll tell you that.   Yeah, definitely. 

Q.   This win takes you into the top 40 in the World Ranking, easily your highest ever and that opens all sort of doors.   How excited to at the moment be in all the Majors and World Golf Championships? 
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   That's my goal at the start of the year was to get into these events.   I knew I was only a win away from sort of getting into everything, the Match Plays and U.S. Opens and all these places.   To be honest, if you have aspirations of Ryder Cup, you've got to be in there.   So I'm delighted with that.
And also, Bob Toms back home is not too well, so Bob, thanks very much for everything and get well soon. 

Q.   You talk about Ryder Cup, this is a launch pad, isn't it?
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Well, you can only go after a good start.   You don't want to leave it too late.   Just hope to build on it like you say and play in all the different events and play in the Masters and stuff like that, so that will be brilliant. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT