JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 24, 2013
Stephen Gallacher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How do you feel about a 64?   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Very good.   Didn't have a warm up today.   
   
 Q.   Why did you not warmup?   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I have kind of a sore back just now and I was hitting a few‑‑ went to go hit a few and struggled a wee bit and had to get a wee bit more physio so I could get out on the course.  
   
 Q.   Did you think a low score like that was out there today?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Yeah, it's one of these courses where the course is set up perfect.   They are trying to get a wee bit of rough ‑‑ and the greens are fantastic so if you get the putt on line to go in‑‑ it's a course I like and done well and had low scores, so suits your eye that way.  
   
 Q.   Would you say the putter let you down the first two days?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   A little bit.   I was happy though to be honest to give myself a chance on the Saturday but today it was real estate good.  
   
 Q.   And now you give yourself a genuine chance with a round to go?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Well, it's out of my hands now.   Depends how the leaders go.   If they shoot 63, 64, I'm up against it a wee bit; but you never know, the wind will blow a little bit.   
   
 Q.   And if they don't?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Then I have a chance.   
   
 Q.   Your thoughts on the back nine?   You got it going there.   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Yeah, holed the putts when I needed to come out and made pars when I had to.   
I think I've played just the same as I have the first two days, but just holed some putts today, which was nice.   
   
 Q.   We hate using the word "easy" but the course seems there for the taking.   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I think when you get benign weather and a good condition course, I think nowadays, guys are going to shoot pretty low.   But there's a few tucked flags and there are a few tough holes, as well, but the par 5s are reachable and that always helps.  
   
 Q.   With your affinity with this course, did you still fancy your chances despite not having the buildup?   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Well, it's one of these ones you could go out and give it a good go and see what happens.   To be honest if it was any other place I wouldn't have played, with having such a sore back.   But I'm delighted now, give myself a wee bit of rest and have a go tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   I know we've had this conversation so many times, but how's the back now?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Yeah, my back's been great for two months, three months and cleaned the car and went away a wee bit.  
   
 Q.   So the car is gleaning and a sparkling score.   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Spotless.  
   
 Q.   What about your position?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   It's out of my hands.   The guys have a lot of holes to play.   See what it's like tomorrow and give it a good go anyway.   
I hit about two shots and I thought, wait a minute‑‑ but the boys have been brilliant in the back, put a heat pack on it and took tablets.   It's one of these ones that eases off, sitting is horrific.   By the time I come up in the car it takes me about five minutes to straighten up, like you, Jimbo, after a few whiskeys.   (Laughter).   
But it's amazing, isn't it‑‑ I played a couple months last year with a torn ligament in my knee and almost takes the focus off you.   You don't really bother.   I putted lovely today and that was the big difference.   I putted really nice.  
I'm going to go for a scan just to see what's there, might need a wee cortisone or something like that just to take the inflammation away.   Or it could be old age, I don't know, but I need to get to the bottom of it because it's been niggling for a couple of years and don't want it to flare up now, if you know what I mean.  
I've got to focus really hard to try‑‑ if I lose a wee bit of concentration, I can't really get through the ball.   But it's weird, it's the short irons that sort of‑‑ the putting and the short iron and the driver is okay.   
   
 Q.   Were there pins and needles‑‑  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   No, I didn't have pins and needles.   That was the thing, that was the only reason I played.   They said, have you got any pins and needles and I said no, nothing.   
They said, well, it's just stiffness in the back, you're not going to do any harm.   But they said you start to feel pins and needles or nerve pain, watch what you're doing because you're stressing your nerves.   Just a freak injury, bizarre.   
   
 Q.   When did it happen?   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Monday.   
   
 Q.   Did you reach for the phone and think twice about coming out?   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I was doubtful but I had a bit of time.   I basically never hit a shot since Friday, just came up and played the course on the Thursday, purely‑‑ if it was anywhere else, I wouldn't have played but because I know the course so well, stay in your own bed and stuff like that, it's a little easier.  
   
 Q.   Considering your physical condition, one of your best rounds ever?   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   To be honest, it loosens off a wee bit and I'm always stretching it, but I hit a few loose shots but on the whole it was pretty good, yeah.   I think I've had 63 around here, so it's one of these places that I like it.   
   
 Q.   To finish it off‑‑  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   A lovely 4 to finish.   It was 4 another way‑‑ to be honest, it's tough to hit the green in two, anyway, it's such a small target now, but the third shot is probably the best shot I've played all day, off an upslope, dodgy number.   
   
 Q.   What distance was it?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   126 yards with a pitching wedge but sort of right in between clubs and just had to take the spin off it.   It was a place I was trying to hit it so that was probably the best shot I hit all day.   
   
 Q.   Are you thinking when you stand over the ball that you can't fully commit?   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   No, no, I'm thinking I can commit but then my body sometimes doesn't let me commit.   But you know, I've just got to go for it and every now and then, it just stiffens up, and I know when I go and sit down and eat my lunch, by the time I drive home, I'm sore again.   But I just need to get to the bottom of it.   
When I'm walking and it loosens off‑‑ when you keep mobile and get the tablets.  
   
 Q.   No matter what the leaders do, you'll have a late tee time.   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Yeah, looking forward to it, see what happens.   
   
 Q.   Can your son not clean your car?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Well, he's cleaning it from now on and my nephew, he's taken over, as well, the duties.   
   
 Q.   Are you picking up any sort of Scottish crowd support as you went around?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Yeah, a lot of my friends were here today and family.   It was quite a good crowd we had early doors, which was nice.   
   
 Q.   Were they picking up on the fact that you were shooting a low number?   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Yeah, got it going from the ninth and hit a great shot at 10, hit it to about 4 foot on 10 and missed a good chance on 11 actually and then birdied 12 and 13 and 15.   From then on, you know you've got a chance.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT