JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 22, 2013
Stephen Gallacher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   When were you up?   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I was up at half three, try to get the back up.   I didn't really know if I was going to play or not to be honest.   The physios helped me here.   I could not get through the ball really.   I had to take a couple under ‑‑ and if I could have snuck another, I'd have been delighted to take 70.   Under par is not bad the way I'm feeling.     
   
 Q.   You went for a walk?   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Is that around here?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   No, just where I live.   
   
 Q.   Is that the earliest you've been off for a round of golf?   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Yeah, under the circumstances, anyway.   I've been up a lot earlier obviously but just to try and warm it up and see how it was.   Kind of an acid test.   
I hit a few but again, I could not really‑‑ it was all right.   It was about 80 per cent.   I struggled, when I tried to really go for the shot, I struggled a wee bit.   I had about three or four good shots, and apart from that it was just a wee bit sloppy.   
I hit a brilliant shot on the last, 4‑iron to about two foot, a 4‑iron at the middle of the green and 15 and 16, as well, and the second green, as well.   The par 5s were pretty good to me.   
   
 Q.   What did the physios do to you?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Just giving me the stuff they have been giving to me the last three or four days.   It's proper seatbelt stuff to try to get my hip and sacroiliac joint moving.   It's jammed up and that's why I can't get through the ball.   Once I can get most movement, I can get through it and actually get a bit of power on it.  
   
 Q.   Is it treatment painful?   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   No, just the back's painful.   It's one of these ones, the muscles are spasming, so they are a wee bit better and getting a wee bit harder now.   I've been taking the tablets, as well, not really good for my stomach and all that, but I need to take that or I cannot play.   
If it was anywhere else, I would not have played to be honest, but when you're on the doorstep and you like the course, it's worth a shot.   I knew I could not make it much worse, so that's the reason why I played.   
   
 Q.   More physio this afternoon?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I'll go tonight and I'll go in the morning again here, and hopefully it eases.   Then just watch what I'm doing the next couple weeks.   
   
 Q.   Are you in pain constantly on the course?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   When I'm trying to hit the shot, I am.   I can't really get the posture, so I have to stand a bit weird.   So I can't really hit the right shots.   That's what you've got to do every now and then, you've just got to grind it out.   It's a course I like, so if I get back fit, you never know.  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT