THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2013
Stephen Gallacher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Was this day tough?
STEPHEN GALLACHER:  It was brutal, really.  The greens
were almost ridiculous, to be honest.  As stressed as I've ever
seen a course play.  The difference between Tuesday is
unbelievable.  You hit it the wrong side, you couldn't get it
within five feet.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
STEPHEN GALLACHER:  Yeah, yeah, compared to how they
were -- they were fantastic Tuesday and Wednesday.  And the
putting green is about eight foot slower.
Q.  For the guys that went out in the afternoon (inaudible).
STEPHEN GALLACHER:  I don't know.  I don't know what it
was like this morning.  But I know it was tough in the afternoon.
You miss it on the wrong side or it was gone.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
STEPHEN GALLACHER:  You hope you get a little bit of
dropping.  And the same for the guys in the afternoon, hopefully
the course plays the same.
Q.  Surprised to see so many American guys near the top?
STEPHEN GALLACHER:  The par-5s were okay for birdies and
eagles.  You could get up in them, but I made a muck of them.  You
know, by the end they were probably running about 15, 16 on the
Stimp, so it was really tough.
Q.  Tomorrow, then?
STEPHEN GALLACHER:  Just try to save the par-5s, just try
and birdie 5, 9 and 17.






You're /KRAOD to hitting uphill putts
quite firmly on links, and you have to make sure you don't.  It's
more different than -- it's different-E /O it's a reprogram of the
brain thing.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
STEPHEN GALLACHER:  No, they looked like they could be
this way.  So they are different from the practice grounds, but
just the normal Wednesday, Thursday progression.
Q.  The R&A were speaking about it earlier, some have shot
good rounds, have said -- do you think they're aiming to do
something over the night?
STEPHEN GALLACHER:  That's the conundrum, for us out of
the draw, if tomorrow arch's players didn't see what we saw.
It will be disappointing.  You just want it the same.  As
I said it's not that crazy, it's just not what we're used to on a
links.  So we just -- and you don't want to see one pin get silly.
There was nothing silly there, it was just really fast.  So
hopefully it's the same tomorrow as it was today.
Q.  Some of the guys were saying some of the pins are a bit
nasty?
STEPHEN GALLACHER:  I hit 3-wood -- the second shot was
the best shot I had all day.  And I had 12 feet, if I did I was
going to have a ten foot par-putt.  You can see how it breaks.  It
breaks a lot.  Normally on links when they one at 10, that's fine.
8 doesn't look at tricky as it did.  Harris hit a putt in the
group that basically stopped ^  it never stopped.  It's tricky, as
I said, more of a reprogramming for us, because we don't see this
very often out here.
Q.  You said after tomorrow --
STEPHEN GALLACHER:  It's not horrible, if there's a
little bit of color in the green tomorrow morning, we can hit a
few good shots.  Hopefully I can make some birdies.  There's a few
red numbers, I think most of them were early.  I don't know two or
three or 4-under tomorrow, you're not going to have to be many
under par on Sunday to win.  It makes it more difficult when you
go a few over on the first day, but you're not out of it.


 
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT