ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 5, 2013
Stephen Gallacher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Your thoughts on what was a very solid round by the looks of things with that score?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Yeah, it's not bad.   Didn't play too good today, so it was nice to get under par to be honest.  
   
 Q.   Different kind of round to the opening day, different weather conditions, as well.   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Yeah, it was pretty misty this morning.   The ball didn't go very far the first sort of six holes.   It was quite wet, so it was tough to adjust, and then baking hot at the end.   
But the course is immaculate, absolutely immaculate.   
   
 Q.   Were you satisfied with the way the scoring was going, picking up the two birdies and moving nicely on the leaderboard?   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Yeah, I had a few chances.   Just never really holed the putts today.   Hit a lot of good putts, as well, but under par is good around here.   So can't beat myself up too much.  
   
 Q.   A lovely position you find yourself in, isn't it, 4‑under par through two rounds.   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Yeah, definitely.   Just hope no one goes daft this afternoon, but doesn't matter, still in my own hands.   Getting the ball okay, which is good.   Bad shots are not too bad, so looking forward to the weekend.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel nicely competitive?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Had a month out there.   This is my second tournament, getting back into the swing of it.   A bit rusty last week but feel better this week.  
   
 Q.   How long does it take?   Some players come straight out of the blocks and others, a couple weeks' buildup.   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   To be honest there's no rhyme or reason.   You can come straight out of the blocks or it could take three weeks.   I felt a bit rusty last week to be honest, with the wind and the weather it was quite a tough week, but good to get back into it this week.  
   
 Q.   And continuing in this vein, a nice finishing score, you don't mind that kind of score every day?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I like courses where par is not too bad a score.   You've got to play well‑‑ you hit a loose shot around here, it's just a bogey straightaway.   So it's good, you've got to keep ahead and just play for pars.   
   
 Q.   Off on a tangent, I was looking at your foundation, it's going nicely, having event after event this time of year.   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Yeah, it's going well, a lot of boys' open and girls' open; in its second year, it's doing great.   
   
 Q.   Do you keep a keen eye on what's happening?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Yeah, definitely.   When I'm home I'll be there.   There's a lot of coaching schools now over the summer, as well, so it's great for the kids.  
   
 Q.   And the mantra at the bottom, to enjoy it, enjoy life, enjoy golf?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I don't know who came up with that (laughter).   No, that's true.   Enjoy life, play golf.   Nice slogan.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT