OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 3, 2013
Stephen Gallacher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MICHAEL GIBBONS:   Congratulations, OMEGA Dubai Desert Classic.   Thoughts on another quiet day on the golf course? 
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I'm drained to be honest.   I knew it was going to be a tough day when I seen the wind in the morning, and you had to control your ball flight a bit more than the other days.   But you know, I didn't really play that well but kind of hung in, which you had to do.   And at the turn, I knew it was pretty much me and Richie, kind of match‑play situation. 
So it was a tough day.   Took a lot of concentration, anyway.   But the shot I hit on 9 sort of kept me going on the tee shot, but there were several shots in the round and that was definitely one of them.
MICHAEL GIBBONS:   And 16? 
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Yeah, the third shot I've holed and then the bunker shot, as well, which is bizarre, but unfortunately you've got to do that these days to win out here.   It's so tough to win and you've got‑‑ to shoot in the 20s, you have to do something special, eagles and stuff.   It was just my week. 

Q.   The shot under and over the tree, what was it and distance, please?
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   It was 185 yards and I hit a 5‑iron.   Walking in the fairway after, telling people you were going to hit is in the souk in the hospitality.   One of those shots, a hit‑or‑miss type thing, but it came off. 

Q.   Why has it taken you eight years and 111 days to get back into this position on Sunday night? 
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   It's not for lack of trying, anyway.   I don't know, I think‑‑ I wish I could put my finger on it.   A lot of seconds, a lot of Top‑10s‑‑ you need a break to win, and I was saying coming up here today, it's the first time I've ever been leading going into the last round. 
All of the times I've finished second, I've come from behind, so I was hoping that would be the clincher and it was.

Q.   This win could open a lot of doors for you‑‑
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I don't really know yet.

Q.   Get the rankings adjusted in the morning‑‑
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I hope so‑‑ I haven't got a clue what happened.   I know I get into the HSBC and Firestone I think.   That's the only two I know. 

Q.   Actually it looks like it's going to be in the neighborhood of 56 in the World Rankings, which puts you in match play, Doral, HSBC, Firestone and six spots from some event they hold in Georgia.   Not sure you've played in that before?
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Never played in it.   It's the only major I've never played so obviously I would love to play there.   But I think I'll just get through tonight‑‑ look at it tomorrow. 

Q.   Have you ever had four days like this in your life when whenever you were in trouble, God was on your side?
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I need to go back to church after that and say my thank yous.   (Laughter).   I'm sure my family back home were saying a few prayers for me and stuff. 
Yeah, it felt like that, anyway.   Had a hole‑in‑one in The Race to Dubai, and I've had another hole‑in‑one in my professional tournaments‑‑ it's one of these places that things keep happening for me that I can't put my finger on.

Q.   Which shot would you rank first among the incredible series of spectacular blows?
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I would say the one at 9 could have went‑‑ I had a gap there about two foot, I had to get it under and over, uncut it.   I was aiming at the edge of the water and thought right‑to‑left was in the drink and probably tournament over. 
It was a great shot under that circumstance, I would say.   It's up there, it was a one in a hundred shot. 

Q.   Based on that, were you tempted not to go for that, because it is a one‑in‑a‑hundred shot‑‑
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   No.   It was the only shot.   Never looked at anything else.

Q.   Just talk us through the start, was there any panic going through your mind, or was it so early in the round that the opening bogey was something you could brush off?
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   It was gusting 25 straight off the left this morning, not the easiest golf shot in the world you'll face.   In the fairway, had a lovely second shot and just misjudged the putt and missed from four foot. 
You know, it was one of these days where it was so tough to get it close, a 3‑putt, everyone probably had one today or was close to one.   I knew it was going to be a tough day and the birdie at 3 got me going as well.

Q.   After winning in 2004, were there issues with injuries or form? 
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I don't know, maybe just expectations or too high or whatnot, I don't know. 

Q.   But then again, you're the third winner in three weeks who has kind of had a similar story line, either has not won in a long time or winning for the first time.   What's going on here?   The Garcias and big names are falling back. 
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Golf is so bunched out here, everyone is capable of doing it.   That's why you see so many first‑time winners.   You know, you need that bit of special‑‑ and I've had it this week with holing shots and bunker shots and stuff like that, and that's what you need to do. 

Q.   Given the opportunity coming away now, based on what Steve just mentioned, do you raise goals now or just take it one tournament at a time? 
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Well, I'm actually on target because my goal was to try to get in the Top‑50 when the Ryder Cup points start, because I don't think you've got a chance of getting in The Ryder Cup team if you're not in the Top‑50, and with the next one being in Scotland and my generation, it's not going to be back there, and for the family, that would be the ultimate for me. 
It was brilliant to win again, just for personal reasons, just to know that I can do it. 

Q.   Any plans on going and spoiling yourself with a nice present or anything? 
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I think I'll be going for a nice something to drink in about 20 minutes.   Just hope I make my flight in the morning.   I've got an early flight. 

Q.   The decisionfor the surgery last year ‑‑
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   That was massive, yeah, 12 days, after Race to Dubai, straight into the hospital to get it done.   And the surgeon told me it was the ligament, it was causing a lot of pain the last year, couldn't practise, couldn't putt, couldn't bend down, so I had to do it.   That's why I was probably a wee bit rusty. 
I came here in 26 of December with my family, and just played the par3 courses for sort of rehab and played the Majlis course, as well.   Still not 100 per cent, but I've got 90 per cent movement now, so much better to see what I'm doing.   Unfortunately I still need to get to the gym, the muscles shrunk a bit, so that's still ongoing but it was massive getting it done. 

Q.   Given your Ryder Cup aspiration, would you take inspiration for what Paul Lawrie did? 
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Oh, 100 percent.   Chippy is a good man, and he's helped me with my junior foundation, same as his.   The year that he had last year is unbelievable.   Well, he's Open Champion, he's won nine times; he's a quality player. 
But for someone in your 40s to have a year like you had last year is probably‑‑ and on the back side, all the Scotts, as well.   You've seen Richie Ramsay win, Scott Jamieson, myself.   There's a lot of guys, good players coming up, and Scotland was going through a bit of a slump eight years ago.
But when you have Sam Torrance and Sandy Lyle at the top of your tee for a long time, it's a pretty hard one to follow and Paul has sort of taken the mantle up and hopefully the next generation coming up are going to be winners for a long time.

Q.   How much golf do you talk withSam Torrance, and how much of a help has he been in your career?
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   He was a massive help when I started.   Give him a bit of stick every now and then and a bit of advice.   No, he's always there, if there's anything to think about or do in my game, I run it by him first. 
He had a brilliant job, and Ryder Cup player, captain, winner; I'd be stupid not to use him.   But he gives me advice on lots of stuff all throughout the year.

Q.   Did you speak to him last night or anything during the tournament? 
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   No.   No, I didn't.   I was on my own. 
MICHAEL GIBBONS:   Many congratulations. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT