OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 2, 2013
Stephen Gallacher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MICHAEL GIBBONS:   Just talk us through the tee shot.
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I hit a good drive and found mud on top of the ball and I had 232 to the flag which is a perfect rescue but I couldn't chance it, so I just thought, hit 3‑wood into the bunker.   Unfortunately 3‑wood‑‑ and came back to the water, so I did watch, that as well.   Came out perfect and obviously it went in, a great way to finish. 
MICHAEL GIBBONS:   What was the distance.
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Must have been a good 25‑yarder. 

Q.   You've obviously developed an affinity for this golf course for whatever reason.   Can you explain what or why that would be?
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I just think I've played it a lot of times, I've come out on holiday here and quite familiar with the course.   I came here over Christmas and a couple days earlier before the start of the season. 
You know your way around here, the lines, you know where to hit it and where not to hit it.   It's obviously great condition and kind of suits my eye as well.

Q.   Can you go through 13? 
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I took it‑‑ it's not something I normally do but my new driver, I hit the ball a bit higher, so I hit it over the top of the tree with a hard draw and came out absolutely perfect.   Normally left me 173 yards to the flag so just a smooth 8‑iron and it came off perfect, and I think hit the pin, went to two feet.

Q.   What club was that? 
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   8‑iron, smooth 8‑iron. 

Q.   Is this the best round you've had?   And did you feel that you had to break out from the pack or were you thinking about the pack at all as you were going down the stretch? 
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   It's the best round I've had, four 9‑unders and 10‑under this week but no, you just try to‑‑ I was just trying to go‑‑ I was just trying to make as many birdies as I could. 

Q.   Have you thought about what this would do for your World Ranking and what it could portend or are we getting too far ahead of ourselves?
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   It's only Saturday so think about that tomorrow.   See what happens. 

Q.   One of the reports‑‑ 20‑under with Tiger Woods in 2001.   Will you think of that? 
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Well, didn't know that until Bernie told me ten minutes ago.   I don't think he won that, did he?   I'll think of that tomorrow, not today. 

Q.   Last year you had a shot at the win last year and you finished second, and he had a display Sunday.   Will you be thinking about that or do you learn anything from that kind of close call last year? 
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Wasn't a disappointing Sunday.   Shot 4‑under or 3‑under I think.   Tough conditions and I had a putt for the tie.   You know, five seconds around here, as well, so it's not easy to win, but the more times‑‑ the goal is to try to be in contention more times and certainly got a good chance tomorrow. 

Q.   Did you arrive in Dubai expecting to perform as well as over 54 holes?
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Well, I was hoping to play well, the first two weeks, as well, but I didn't the first two weeks, just a bit rusty.   I have some good memories around here, like the place and look forward to it.   I'm not surprised.   I'm driving the ball better than I was the last couple of weeks, and you have to play the balls from the fairways or it becomes tough.

Q.   Your first and only win on The European Tour was way back in 2004.   Any thoughts on that and how does that make your approach in the final round? 
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Well, I don't think that will make any difference at all.   It's good knowing that you can win, obviously.   You just want to take it and play it by ear and see what happens tomorrow.   Who knows what's going to happen, you know.   It's just a case of keep doing what you're doing.   It's what got me here so no thoughts of changing it.

Q.   Any thoughts of moving to Dubai?
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   No.   I quite like coming out on holiday a couple weeks here and there.   That will do. 

Q.   Chris Wood last week after he won, he didn't look at the leaderboard once until he was standing with the eagle putt at the last, are you the sort of person that looks at leaderboards while you're playing or will you just be‑‑
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Yeah, you want to see what you've got to do.   Not staring at it but just sort of, you can see yourself needing to do something.   I've always been one that's sort of looked.

Q.   If you have to rank ‑‑ inaudible ‑‑   1 and 2, which would be first?
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I feel the best one was the one at the last.   It was a lot tougher, driver, 8‑iron‑‑ but the last one, to do it at the last hole, with Richard breathing down your neck and trying to make 4; but to make 3 to give that you extra shot, could be the goal tomorrow. 

Q.   Any thoughts on Richard Sterne? 
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Well, he's done his bit for one of the tournaments in South Africa end of February, a good lad and great player, I've known him for ages.   Won't be a problem tomorrow. 

Q.   You mentioned 2004‑‑ you had Top‑5 finishes last year.   What would this win mean to you, to end the drought? 
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   It would be great to know that you can do it again.   I've certainly been playing better the last three or four years.   I've had a lot of close shaves, a couple of seconds last year, second the year before.   It's just you come up against guys that sometimes their day and you need a bit of luck.   It is tough to win but if you've done it before, you can do it again. 
MICHAEL GIBBONS:   Stephen, let's hope it's your day tomorrow.   Good luck. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT