OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 31, 2013
Stephen Gallacher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Missed about a 2‑footer for birdie, holed about a 10‑footer at the next.   Had a chance at five and holed my second shot at 6.   Holed a 7‑iron from 175 yards.   That kind of got me going.   
Then played solid golf and hit it to about ten foot at 9, holed that to turn at 5‑under.   And then disaster, just short of the green at 10 and chipped it to four foot and 3‑putted it, same side of the hole, twice.   Then bogeyed the next, so I thought I was going to be struggling a little bit.   But came back well from there.   
MICHAEL GIBBONS:   You always seem to play well here.  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Finished second last year and had a couple Top‑10s.   I like the course, it suits my eye.   Some great conditions, as well, and the greens are there for holing putts.   It wasn't too windy this morning.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Great drive and 5‑iron to ten foot and rolled it in.   
   
 Q.   And the second?   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Hit it pin‑high to about 20‑foot and holed it.   
   
 Q.   Was the most satisfying thing after the wobble, the way that you responded, of all the things from that round?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Yeah, because the next hole, I was on a terrible lie and hit a great shot to 20 foot and that kind of got the momentum back.   If I bogeyed that, I would have shot 2‑ or 3‑under, something like that.   That was the most enjoyable putt of the day, definitely.   
   
 Q.   And when conditions are like they are today, you know that you are out there and you can see people going low, does that bring a pressure, as well?   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   No, you're just trying to‑‑ just starting to get up into my round‑‑ but the greens have been so good, and you know, the course is in unbelievable condition.   It was there to score today.   Just pleased that I done it on a day like this.   
   
 Q.   Sum up your previous two tournaments you've competed in?   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Well, the first one, I drove it terrible.   Just shocking.   I was in the sand every hole.   It was sort of‑‑ I had not been playing a lot after The Race to Dubai and I was a bit rusty.   And then Qatar, my driver broke, so I had to put a newone, the face cracked, so put a new driver in this week and it feels pretty good.   
   
 Q.   A couple weeks ago, there were problems with the greens, etc., and the scores show today that it seems it must be‑‑  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I think when you're just a wee bit off perfection, you know, I think it was a mountain and a mole hill to be honest.   I came out here over Christmas and they were long and sandy, but like any other course, they always seem to get them in brilliant condition.   There's a few problem areas but you don't even see it.   They are sort of changing the way‑‑ they have changed a lot of holes to run‑offs instead of thick rough.   So it looks brilliant, as well.   It looks manicured to the Nth degree.   
You can't shoot 10‑under and 9‑under on bad greens.   
MICHAEL GIBBONS:   Thanks very much.   Good luck the rest of the week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT