PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 11, 2012
Stephen Gallacher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Good finish, tough at the end, tough to get the club in right.   Sometimes it was gusting three clubs' wind, and you play for a bounce on the greens as well, they are pure and firm and unbelievable conditions.   It's pretty linksy feel to it.   
   
 Q.   I take it when you went out it was pretty much flat calm and you felt the wind picking up?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   When we went out this morning, the ball was going a club less because it was so heavy, the air, and it wasn't very warm yet.   But the weather is brilliant here and it's perfect for playing golf.  
   
 Q.   A course you like?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I love it.   I played the World Cup here, and came down with some of my friends here.   When you come to courses like this, you know how to play it and where to play it.   There's not much rough with such a warm summer, but even that, it's still hard downwind in you're in the rough, you can't stop the ball.   It's good.   
   
 Q.   Certainly the par has changed from last time, but are there differences in the greens and feel of the place?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Just the greens are really firm.   They are beautiful and you've just got to think.   When they put them up the slope or down the slope, it's tough to get them pin‑high.   You have to play for a wee bounce.   It not drop‑and‑stop, so you've got to be on the ball really.   
   
 Q.   How long did things weigh on your mind on Sunday evening, or did you dismiss them pretty quickly after playing the wrong ball?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I can't even remember that.   I've forgotten all about that.   I don't know what you're talking about, that's so far ago.  
   
 Q.   Are you able to dismiss things that have happened?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   You've got to.   There's no point dwelling on it, is there.  
   
 Q.   Not everybody can, some people dwell on it and it stays with them for a few holes.   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Well, I finished 4, 3, so you can make your own mind up on that one.  
   
 Q.   Essentially you've been in a nice vein of form carrying on to this tournament.   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I'm hitting the ball nice and been rolling the putter well, so just got to keep doing what you're doing.   
   
 Q.   People rib you about last Sunday?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   A few, yeah, a few of my mates, but that's part and parcel.  
   
 Q.   Any comments you can share?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Not really.   And I can't tell you what I said back to them, that's for sure.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT