ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 7, 2012
Stephen Gallacher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I hit my ball in a divot in the first round and came up short, as well‑‑ it's been kind to me and it's been harsh to me.   
   
 Q.   Practice swing?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I hit a divot here the other day and the ball was there and it went along and dinked the ball, and it was a shot penalty on the first round.   
   
 Q.   Here?   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   Take us through what happened?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I hit my tee shot down the left which is where I was trying to hit it.   What was wrong was I didn't really watch where the amateur hit it and I went down and there's one ball, he's playing the same number as me and the mark is similar to mine but it was sitting side on.   
So I'm thinking‑‑ I was happy because it was near the bunker.   It was looking like it was going in the trap.   He was a hundred yards up, I thought‑‑ never even took him into the equation, just hit the shot, hit a good slot and then he sees, have you seen my ball and I'm like, I never seen it mate, sorry.   He says, I've got it here and it's not mine, and it was mine, and that's it.  
   
 Q.   Where was your ball?   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   About five yards left of it in the rough.  
   
 Q.   What did they say to you?   Did he feel bad in any way?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   There's nothing really‑‑ just one of those things, it was a mistake, wasn't it.   His caddie was a bit upset because walked forward.   There was nobody down the left, the problem was I hit it down the third fairway and there's no one down there.   
   
 Q.   What was the number?   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Titleist 1.   He had a red dot and I had a green dot, but it was sitting side on.   Couldn't really‑‑ you could see it was a Titleist but you couldn't see any of the markings, if it was sitting in front of me, I think I would have gathered that.   
I've never done that before, neither hit in a divot nor playing the wrong ball.   
   
 Q.   Would you change the way you mark the ball now?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   No, I'd maybe look a bit closer.   
   
 Q.   Had you been out there a long time?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   It's one of these things that it's hard playing with an amateur the last round when it's not your partner.   When it's your partner, you're watching where he's hitting it, and he was trying to kind of stay out of the way; when we were doing well‑‑ I've played in this before obviously and the amateurs try and kind of stay out of your road a wee bit.   So you can go a couple of holes and not see them or be walking up the fairway with them.   Just one of them freak things.   
He's a hundred yards further up than me and his caddie is looking 50 yards up, so I never even gave it a clue, I never even gave it a thought.  
   
 Q.   A lot of money up for grabs; should the amateurs be make on the last day?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   It's an amateur tournament, isn't it.  
   
 Q.   Just in terms of the prize‑‑  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   It's nothing to do with that.   Prize fund is what it is, because the amateurs are playing, you know.   It's just I've just hit the wrong ball, it's as simple as that.   It happened at the wrong time.   It happens in one of the other rounds, doesn't even really matter.   I finished par birdie, so I feel good about that.   
It was difficult to play the 16th‑‑ because my ball was buried in the rough, as well.   No, just one of these things, isn't it.   
   
 Q.   Is it a stupid question to ask you how you're feeling at the minute?   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Normally if it's a stupid question, it's a stupid question, isn't it.   What can I do?   I'm obviously a bit disappointed but still finish Top‑10 when something like that happens‑‑ you know you never going to win it, unless he can a pit late down 17, 18.   But I'm quite happy, pleased the way I held it up to be honest.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT