OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 12, 2012
Stephen Gallacher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   A solid 3‑under par final round in this tournament, how good did you play?   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Well, struggled a bit off the tee today but I hit a lot of good iron shots and made a few putts at the right time.   But I had a chance to sort of get into the playoff on last, so just a wee bit disappointed but happy overall.  
   
 Q.   It was a very tight finish, four players very close, 17‑under par, tied second, not a bad result.   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Yeah, it's okay, well, start of the week‑‑ it's just a bit disappointing.   Would have loved to have made the playoff.   But fair play to Rafa, he played well, and 18‑under is a good score in these conditions.   
It was tricky conditions compared to yesterday.   Didn't really hit the ball as good off the tee add I had done yesterday but hit my iron shots pretty good and holed a few putts.   It was close but no cigar.   
It was tough today.   A lot of crosswinds, and you know, the greens were firming up, so it was always going to be tough.   
   
 Q.   Talk us through the eagle, very, very long putt.   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Yeah, it was about a 40‑footer down the hill.   It's one of those ones where I was in‑between clubs, so I just had to knock it up the back, try to take my chance with the putt.   But it gave me a chance, the last few holes, anyway.  
I made a good putt at 16 but I had a couple of chances coming in at 17, 18, but just misread them a bit.   On the whole, happy with that.  
   
 Q.   Second place is no bad shakes around here at all.   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Yeah, and it's good to play with Westwood the last couple of rounds, as well.   
   
 Q.   And as you said leading into the final round, form has been coming?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Yeah, well I struggled‑‑ my driver broke last week, so I'm still playing with a driver this week that's not quite right.   So first on the priority list is get a driver that suits me.   
   
 Q.   What's next?   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I don't know.   Don't know yet.   
   
 Q.   Back to the cold?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I think so.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT