OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 11, 2012
Stephen Gallacher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   STEPHEN GALLACHER:   It was a good day, I hit the ball well, gave myself a lot of chances, what you've got to do. In a good position for tomorrow, looking forward to it?  
   
 Q.   It was tricky today, wasn't it?   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Yeah, the pins were tougher.   And the wind was sort of swirling about a bit, couldn't make its mind up.   I hear it's to be windy tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Today is one of those winds, there as a spectator, you think it's cooling and as you properly walk the fairways you think that; hit the shots and it's a different matter.   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Yeah, it's tricky out there especially when you have important shots over water and stuff, what to do with the wind.   It was tough enough, but it was good.   I enjoyed it.  
   
 Q.   Is there any particular highlight that you thought from today?   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Not really.   It was pretty mundane.   I had one hole that I made that decent 4, off the 13th, I clipped a tree and I got up‑and‑down off the sand for a 4.   That was nice.   I kept the momentum going.  
   
 Q.   It does seem to be one of those days where it's jockeying for position really.   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   You're trying to get yourself into contention for the last round.  
   
 Q.   Do you surprise yourself you're in this contending position, given what you've had the last couple of weeks?   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Nothing surprises me in this game.   When you think you're playing great, you can sometimes‑‑ when struggling, you do well.   So there's no right or wrong.   You've just got to go out and try to do as well as you can every week.  
   
 Q.   So the trick is to have the right attitude when you have got your chances?   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Well, that's right.   It's about your good weeks this tour, it's not about your bad weeks.   It's about how you do when you're playing well.  
   
 Q.   You mentioned the likely forecast with the wind picking up; will that suit you?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Maybe.   25‑mile‑an‑hour, I think it will be really tough.   So just need to wait and see.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT