U.S. OPEN
August 26, 1996
Jaime Oncins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. What happened right at the end on that controversial play? Did somebody touch the
net?
 
 JAIME ONCINS: No, no. He thought that I hit a volley on that shot, so after that he hit
a winner. His shot didn't pass. I mean, it didn't cross the net. The ball hit the net and
goes back to his court, so it's my point. That's what he was complaining with the chair
umpire. I said I didn't make the volley. It just didn't pass the net. 
 
Q. What was he complaining about? I don't understand.
 
 JAIME ONCINS: He thought that he hit the shot, the ball passed the net, and I hit a
volley. It didn't happen this. He hit the shot and the ball didn't pass the net. 
 
Q. His shot didn't pass the net?
 
 JAIME ONCINS: Yes, his shot didn't pass. 
 
Q. It hit the net and bounced back?
 
 JAIME ONCINS: Yes. He thought I hit a volley. 
 
Q. That's what we all thought.
 
 JAIME ONCINS: It didn't pass. 
 
Q. So what did the umpire have to explain to you? I could see him explaining. 
 
 JAIME ONCINS: He asked me if I made the volley. I said, "No, I didn't make the
volley. I tried to hit a volley, but the ball didn't pass." 
 
Q. Your racquet must have been very close to the ball at that point.
 
 JAIME ONCINS: Yes. My body was like this (indicating). If the ball passed, it probably
hit my body, not my racquet. 
 
Q. How disconcerting, obviously, the double-fault on the next point.
 
 JAIME ONCINS: Yes. I start to think, 6-4. At that moment was like one hour for me, that
little seconds, because I start to think 6-4, I had to win this point, win this set, then
have a chance in the fifth set. I forgot what I had to focus in the moment. I had to focus
on the point. Then I started to think a lot of things. I lost all my concentration at that
moment. 
 
Q. You had a terrible time with your serve the whole day, didn't you?
 
 JAIME ONCINS: Yeah. I mean, in the second and third set I was too nervous. There is a
long time that I did not play with good players in a big stadium like this. I was too
tight, too nervous. After I lost the third set, I thought, "I pay my bills, I don't
have to worry about this thing, I just have to play and have fun." I start to play
much better, you know, I start to go for the winners, go for the shots. Even in my serve,
I serve better than the other sets. I think the best set that I played was the fourth set.
So I had to keep in mind to continue to play like that, then maybe I have a chance to come
back. 
 
Q. Was your last match here against Wilander?
 
 JAIME ONCINS: Yes. 
 
Q. '93?
 
 JAIME ONCINS: Yes. 
 
Q. A long tiebreaker?
 
 JAIME ONCINS: Don't remember that tiebreaker. Have a bad call over there? 
 
Q. Yes.
 
 JAIME ONCINS: I remember. Very important bad call, was 12-zero in the tiebreak. I got a
big fine at that point. 
 
Q. Do you remember how much?
 
 JAIME ONCINS: Of course. 
 
Q. How much was it?
 
 JAIME ONCINS: It was $2,500. 
 
Q. What did you say?
 
 JAIME ONCINS: I just say that was a bad call. 
 
Q. Really? Is that what you said? And your last match on Center Court was obviously
against Jimmy on his birthday. Do you remember that?
 
 JAIME ONCINS: Yes. 
 
Q. I was going to say, did you think about that at all going out there today?
 
 JAIME ONCINS: No. It was a different match, this one. That match was like a big party.
His birthday. It was totally full, the stadium. At that time I was really nervous. I was,
like, shaking my whole body. 
 
Q. How important was it for you today in light of everything that's gone on in your
life in the last three years?
 
 JAIME ONCINS: I think this last three or four weeks, it is really important for me. Two
months ago I start to think about to quit, then I start to think, "Well, this is my
life, I love to play tennis." When I was in my home with my family, my girlfriend, we
start to talk. They said, "No, you don't have to quit because you love this game, you
know that if you staying home, after that you're going to be so sad because you like to
play tennis." Then I said I would give my last try this year. I start to play really
well. I win a Challenger in Brazil. It was really important for me because I lost my whole
confidence in my game. After that, I start to believe a little bit more in my game. I play
well the week after, and I play really well in the quallies here against Jacco Eltingh,
last round. I think I played my best tennis in three or four years. I was really happy. I
have a tough round, first round, in the Grand Slam. Every player is tough, but first round
against Michael is really difficult. I like the way I played the fourth set, so I have to
keep in mind this fourth set. I had to believe in my game again. I can say to you that I
believe in my game again. Believe it or not, this match for me, this set for me, it's like
almost I win the game, because it was so important for me. 
 
Q. Did you have any problem with the seeding controversy, the way that Michael was
bumped up in the seedings and all that?
 
 JAIME ONCINS: Sorry, can you ask again? 
 
Q. Did you have any problem with the seeding controversy? The players have complained
about the USTA seeding the players the way they've been seeded.
 
 JAIME ONCINS: I think the players are right to complain about this, because if a player
is ranking No. 2 or 3 or 4 in the world, it's because he deserves. Why in a tournament
they not going to go by the ranking for the seeds.? That doesn't make any sense. Doesn't
matter if the court is hardcourt, claycourt, grass, wood, I don't know what. Doesn't
matter. If there is a ranking, you have to go by the ranking. I mean, if I was No. 3 in
the world, they put me as seed No. 7 or 8, I would be mad also. 
 
Q. Do you feel they're trying to help the American players?
 
 JAIME ONCINS: I don't know what they're trying. I mean, I don't know. I can't say this
because I don't know what's passing their minds. I mean, the women do the same thing, and
the players have to complain about that. They start over here. Maybe change next year,
maybe not, I don't know. 
 
Q. What happened at the first set?
 
 JAIME ONCINS: That's what I said before, I win the first set. But I think I did not
play well in the first set and he did not play well in the first set also. He didn't play
his best tennis in the first set also. He started to play better in the second and third
set. It was like I said before, too nervous. I did not feel well in the stadium. I started
to think, "This court is too big, I'm a little bit lost here." After that in the
fourth set, I started to think again, "Just play tennis and have fun on the
court." 
 
Q. Don't you think that your volley was pretty good enough and you didn't use it, the
volley?
 
 JAIME ONCINS: That's what I'm talking about. I started to play well in the fourth set.
If I play like that in the second set, in the third set, if I play like that in the whole
game, maybe I have a better chance to win. Maybe not. Maybe I play like that and I lose
the same way. I mean, if I play like that in the second and the third set, really for sure
better result. Maybe I lost, maybe I have more chance to win. 
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT