NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HEAT v PACERS
May 25, 2014
Roy Hibbert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Do you feel like you guys have enough in the reserve to tap into, say, we've done this before.   We know we can do it again?   
ROY HIBBERT:   You have to.   The starting five has been through it, and we'll figure it out.  
   
 Q.   For a guy like Lance Stephenson, when you're not getting shots to fall‑‑ you've had a couple of games in this postseason like that‑‑ what do you say to him just to keep him up?   
ROY HIBBERT:   Just keep going.   We'll figure it out.   Just play it on defense.  
   
 Q.   You had a chance to see film on what happened last night.   What have you learned?   Will there be any adjustments?   
ROY HIBBERT:   Try to play with a little more energy and put pressure on them.  
   
 Q.   How frustrating is it that you guys were in control for so long and just too many turnovers cost you the game?   
ROY HIBBERT:   We've got to limit our turnovers and get back to transition defense.   That's what they do best, so we'll have to handle that better.  
   
 Q.   What do you feel about the body language of this team?   How would you describe where the body language of this team is?   
ROY HIBBERT:   We were caught off guard a little bit, but we bounced back.   Today was a good practice, and we're ready to go tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   What was the best thing about the practice today?   
ROY HIBBERT:   We got up a lot of shots, and we made a lot of shots.  
   
 Q.   How detrimental was it that Paul was only able to play 32 minutes last night?   
ROY HIBBERT:   It was tough.   We need him in the game.   So he'll be there next time.  
   
 Q.   I know it's something they were already talking to you about, but how do you feel about the force that you played with in the last game?   
ROY HIBBERT:   Sometime you just got to get back to it.   Maybe I didn't play with enough and finish out enough, finish as much as possible.   I'm going to get that back tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Does that go away from you when you feel like they go away from you with the ball, or is that something going on with you in terms of where you are maybe psychologically in the game?   Is it more within you, or is it in terms of maybe your team not feeding you where you need to be fed?   
ROY HIBBERT:   I'm just trying to‑‑ if they're not feeding me, I've just got to be able to play through it and not worry about it too much.   Just try to be effective even if I'm not getting into my sweet spot.   
So just overcoming that, I guess, is something I have to keep pushing towards.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT