NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PACERS v HEAT
May 27, 2013
Roy Hibbert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Obvious to say that you have to win tomorrow? 
ROY HIBBERT:   Yeah.   Every game is a must‑win.   Especially at this point of the season.   We just have to figure some things out, tinker with some things, and go out there and play. 

Q.   You hadn't lost at home in the playoffs.   How much of a chink in your armor is that? 
ROY HIBBERT:   I mean, just because it's home court doesn't mean anything.   We played against a tough team last night.   They were red‑hot.   We have our work cut out for us. 

Q.   The way they played last night, could anybody have beaten them? 
ROY HIBBERT:   I mean, it's very hard to win when they shoot that well and defend the way they did.   Tomorrow is another day. 

Q.   How much of what Chris Andersen does has surprised you? 
ROY HIBBERT:   I know he's an energy guy.   He's done that while he was in Denver.   He is just bringing that here at a high level. 

Q.   The NBA put in this policy this year to combat flopping.   What's your view on how well that's worked in this series?   Have you seen that be effective?   Have you seen guys flopping?
ROY HIBBERT:   People flop all the time.   It's sad to say, but we live‑‑ not just against the Heat, throughout the whole season.   We all make a substantial amount of money, and some people just still do it anyway, and they don't mind getting fined. 

Q.   Who is the worst? 
ROY HIBBERT:   I'm not going to answer that. 

Q.   What problems does LeBron pose when he's using his strength in the post against a defender like Paul George? 
ROY HIBBERT:   It's kind of tough.   He's worked on his post game, and he's very effective down there.   I'm sure if he missed a couple, he probably would have went away from it. 
But we're trying to give Paul as much help as possible.   They spread us out a little bit.   We're going to figure out a way to help him out. 

Q.   David said when a guy dribbles five, six, seven times, you just can't possibly allow that.   Why not? 
ROY HIBBERT:   There's no help, and you have to‑‑ he's going to have his way in the post.   Paul has done a great job of making things tough.   It's our job to really go out there and help him out. 

Q.   Have you seen a team clicking offensively as well as they were in the first half? 
ROY HIBBERT:   They shot like 62 or 63%.   We've seen that from certain teams, but they had that going the whole game. 
They're champs for a reason. 

Q.   Playoffs are all about adjustments.   And throughout your series so far you've made the adjustments.   What adjustments can be made now for Game 4? 
ROY HIBBERT:   You'll have to wait and see tomorrow. 

Q.   Games 1 and 3 (Indiscernible) in the paint.   Are you surprised considering how good you guys have been defensively the number of points you guys have given up in the paint in your two losses? 
ROY HIBBERT:   Tell you the truth, last night was very surprising.   They spread us out, they were hitting jumpshots at the beginning of the game.   I think we worried about that a little bit more, then they were driving and scoring after that. 
We have to figure that out.   But we try to do a good job protecting the paint.   But they're such a talented team with the big three that you're going to give up something at some point. 

Q.   How can you not get frustrated considering you guys were the best defensive team in the league all season, and in your two losses they've been able to exploit you guys? 
ROY HIBBERT:   We have to keep on truckin'.   We're the best defensive team for a reason.   But it's hard when LeBron James gets transition buckets and he's scoring so well in the post. 
I mean, all that stuff that happens in the beginning of the season kind of goes out the window.   Some of it has to trickle down a little bit. 

Q.   Can you leave your guy to help Paul George in that situation?   Can anyone leave their guy? 
ROY HIBBERT:   I mean, when guys are shooting like the way they did last night, no, you can't.   But somebody has to give something up.   I would rather somebody take a 15, 17‑foot jumpshot as opposed to a higher percentage shot in the paint. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT