NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PACERS v HEAT
May 26, 2013
Roy Hibbert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.   Roy, can you talk about what it was like to endure the first half that they put together.   And was it just them playing at their utter top level or was it something you guys felt just wasn't there for your team tonight? 
ROY HIBBERT:   You know, defensively we didn't come out aggressive, I don't believe.   I'm going to take the hit on this a lot for the start and for the momentum, just‑‑ we had to pick our poison because Bosh was rolling, he was at the basket, I had to rotate and then Haslem got off.   He was hitting a lot of shots that he normally wasn't hitting.   He was letting me hear it.   
I have got to respond.   I have to roll, I have to move my feet, I have to do both. 

Q.   How dangerous are they when you know what you're going to get out of Wade and LeBron and Bosh but when you get an X factor like Haslem tonight, how dangerous‑‑
ROY HIBBERT:   I think he really was the guy that pushed them, the catalyst for them tonight.   Just him hitting those shots really made us have to think on defense, who do we guard?   Do we guard the paint or do we have to go out to the shooters out in the corner? 
And he was hitting tonight.   And when you‑‑ our game plan was to limit those guys, make sure they got nothing and let their big three do all the work and limit those guys.   And he was the one that really pushed them over the edge. 

Q.   Roy, LeBron made a concerted effort, they had him down in the post quite a lot.   What did his assertiveness down there, challenges that it presented for you guys? 
ROY HIBBERT:   You know, he was in the post putting in a lot of work.   I think we have to do a better job of helping Paul out.   LeBron can't get five or six dribbles to get a post move. 
They really spread us out, so I wasn't able to get down there as much as possible because Birdman was either on the three‑point line or Haslem was all the way in the corner, deep corner. 
We have to make adjustments.   He's obviously a low‑post threat, but we have to make adjustments. 

Q.   What did you say earlier that Haslem was letting you hear it on the court? 
ROY HIBBERT:   Yeah, by making the shots and everything like that.   He was very confident tonight, and he was their X factor for them tonight.   I have to do both. 

Q.   Roy, when you say you need to make adjustments, as you said, the big three are the people you wanted to do all the work.   You were going to make sure you got out on the three‑point shooters.   If Haslem shoots like that, is there really anything you guys can do defensively? 
ROY HIBBERT:   Me personally, you know, he wasn't making those shots the prior two games.   So I was rotating off him and helping out Paul or rotating to Bosh and stuff like that.   Now he's been hitting.   I have to play both.   I have to stop the roll guy and get out and contest.   Because it's going to be a hard job, but if we want to win this series, I have to do both.   I have to do everything.   And make it more uncomfortable for those guys. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT