NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PACERS v HEAT
May 23, 2013
Roy Hibbert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You guys gave up 60 points in the paint.   (Indiscernible) can you just talk about how they were able to‑‑  
ROY HIBBERT:   A lot of dump-offs, a lot of penetrations and dump-offs and reading the second and third rotations.   We can do a better job of protecting the helper.   Maybe the helper not over-helping sometimes, if you guys can understand what I'm talking about.   
Maybe we could figure out the ball screen and containing those guys.   Hopefully we can do that.   
   
 Q.   How much did it impact that you had to step up on the baseline, allowing Birdman to come from that weak side?   
ROY HIBBERT:   Normally when you‑‑ you know, in the last series we played, you know, guys were turning the corner, but they weren't as athletic as D‑Wade and LeBron and Chalmers and them.   So when those guys are coming at you 100 miles‑an‑hour, you would think that they have a large launching pad and they can jump from anywhere.   What do you do?   Do you let them‑‑ you have to play the game, and I lost most of those possessions, because I figured they were going to go score, and they dumped it off for easy baskets.   
   
 Q.   You're not being in the game at the end, does that go hand in hand with you guys having that size advantage, having that, and having to take advantage of it more?   
ROY HIBBERT:   Yeah.   I feel like our size is our biggest strength, but at the same time, you know, I'm not the quickest guy out there on the perimeter guarding Bosh or other guys.   You have to switch.   
We had a group of guys out there that were able to move their feet, but again, our second rotation didn't come help Paul.   
   
 Q.   Do you envision, Roy, when LeBron made that move, if you were out there you would have swatted that shot?   
ROY HIBBERT:   I would‑‑ I mean, things could always be different, I would think so.   Just the way how he shot the lay‑up.   Like he served it up.   So I feel like‑‑ he didn't tuck it, he served it.   I may have been able to get a hand on it.   I may have not have.   He may have done something differently.   Can't really think about that.   You just have to move on.   
   
 Q.   Do you wish you had just pushed Coach a little bit in that huddle and say come on, let me go out there and see what happens?   
ROY HIBBERT:   I mean, yeah, in retrospect, yeah.   Me growing as a player I need to do that more and have a bigger voice.   But Coach is willing to listen.   Do it in a respectful way and not cause a commotion.   
I do need to grow as a player and be able to do that.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT