NCAA MEN'S 3RD & 4TH ROUND REGIONALS: MINNEAPOLIS
March 24, 2006
Ashanti Cook
Jeff Green
Roy Hibbert
John Thompson III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 JOHN THOMPSON III:  It was disappointing.  We don't want to -- I don't want to be going home right now.  You have to give them a lot of credit.  They hung in there, and they made plays down at the end when they needed to make plays.  It is what it is. 

 Q.  This is for any of you guys.  When the last play happened, what was going through your minds, and did you guys think that it was going in when he was driving the basket? 
 ASHANTI COOK:  We thought we made a good defensive play, but he just made a tough shot.  He is a good player.  That's what good players do, they make tough shots.  He did it for his team when they needed it. 
 Q.  Jeff, how did you collect yourself after those three quick fouls, whatever, three minutes of the second half? 
 JEFF GREEN:  I just kept my head.  I didn't overreact or anything.  We had to do them, and the thing we had to do we didn't do, so that's why we lost.  I tried not to get out of the game.  I tried to keep my composure, not let three fouls get to my head. 
 Q.  I know it's probably tough to do this, but did you take any satisfaction from the season in being able to bring Georgetown back like you guys have? 
 ROY HIBBERT:  Actually, we are not satisfied at all.  We came here to win.  We are not satisfied with just being in the Sweet 16 or being in the NCAA Tournament.  We are here to win, and that's the goal that every team that participates in this wants to do.  People say we did a good job, but -- we did work hard.  We deserved to be here.  We want to win.  We are going to have to work twice as hard next year. 

 Q.  Coach, could you have asked for a better shot with seven seconds left, that guy, wide open look? 
 JOHN THOMPSON III:  No.  You know, that's just the nature of athletics, I guess.  We got the shot we wanted for who we wanted it, for who we wanted to get it, and the ball didn't go in. 
 As they said, they made some tough plays and a tough shot down at the end.  As Ashanti pointed out, these are tough, competitive kids and they played when they needed to.  We got what we wanted, wide open shot.  It didn't go in.  That's the breaks. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT