BIG EAST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 10, 2006
Brandon Bowman
Roy Hibbert
John Thompson III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 COACH JOHN THOMPSON III:  Questions? 
 Q.  Can you talk about how tentative you guys got in the second half.  It looked like everything you did in the first half, it just looked more tentative. 
 COACH JOHN THOMPSON III:  Yeah, you know, maybe we did.  I'm not sure.  They took away the middle a little bit.  We got it in there.  At the end, you know, we probably were a little stagnant. 
 Q.  Free throws, one guy starts doing it, the next guy gets up there (inaudible). 
 COACH JOHN THOMPSON III:  I don't know.  We haven't had that happen too much.  We were, what, 8 for 17.  You make your foul shots, it's a different game. 
 Q.  There was a time-out you called right after a made basket.  Can you tell us, was that to deal with defensive assignments with McNamara? 
 COACH JOHN THOMPSON III:  He's a great player and he showed that tonight.  I mean, he willed them to win.  He put them on his back and he willed them to win. 
 But that is correct, we called that time-out because we wanted to just make sure we were focusing on him.  Make sure everyone's energy was on him.  And it did not matter.  It did not matter.  He's a terrific player who's a senior who decided he doesn't want to lose.  That's the long and short of it. 
 Q.  (Inaudible). 
 COACH JOHN THOMPSON III:  We worked on that and I thought that you call a time-out, it gives them an opportunity to get their defense set up.  Over the past couple years we've been in that situation and we've scored.  I thought we'd get it out, get it in right away and maybe have outnumbering situations, maybe have mismatches.  Yeah, you can call a time-out, you can go back and forth on that.  But we haven't done that.  We've worked on it.  Guys know to get it out, feel the lanes.  We may get an advantage doing that as opposed to calling a time-out and letting them set up their defense.  That's something that's by design. 

 Q.  Brandon, with their defense, in terms of creating all the turnovers tonight, would you say you guys contributed to that? 
 BRANDON BOWMAN:  I would say a little bit of both.  It seems like in the second half their zone was a little bit more tight than it was in the first half.  We didn't get the ball to the high post enough as we should.  That was due to their defense.  They were tight.  They were getting out, closing on the three-point line.  Then you have us, you know, missing a few layups here and there, making a couple turnovers.  They countered on it every time.  Every mistake we ever made in the second half, it seems like they scored on. 
 I mean, when things like that happen, it's anybody's game. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT