NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HEAT v PACERS
May 22, 2014
Roy Hibbert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You were limping a little bit at the end of the game. 
ROY HIBBERT:   I'm fine.

Q.   Everybody else seems to be fine.   How concerned are you about Paul?
ROY HIBBERT:   Paul is being evaluated, and whatever the doctor says, we'll be ready to go.

Q.   At any point after the collision with Dwyane Wade in the final minutes of the game, did you notice anything that would have seemed off?
ROY HIBBERT:   He just took a second to get up, and then we went about our business.

Q.   What was your reaction when you found out that he said he had blacked out?
ROY HIBBERT:   I found out after the media yesterday, so hope he takes care of himself and don't rush back too seen.   He needs to be healthy first.

Q.   How hard is it in those situations when obviously the game is on the line, you want to be competitive as a player, to maybe not want to disclose symptoms or what have you? 
ROY HIBBERT:   You have to let the team know and the doctors know, the trainers know when you have symptoms.   You have to think about your longevity as a human being before just the game.   He has the right people around him and the organization is behind him, so whenever he's ready to go, he'll be back.

Q.   Can you describe what the impact would be if Paul George did not play? 
ROY HIBBERT:   If he wasn't able to play, I know that he'd be cheering us on.   We'd just have to step up.   But next man up.   We need him, but whenever he's ready to go, he'll come back.

Q.   Was he like a quarterback in the red jersey today, you're not allowed to touch him?
ROY HIBBERT:   He didn't do anything too much today, so nobody touched him. 

Q.   What has to be your mindset going to Miami? 
ROY HIBBERT:   Win. 

Q.   How important do you think‑‑ do you have an attitude of we've got to get one or do you think three is absolutely crucial? 
ROY HIBBERT:   We have to win every game possible.   That's our mindset. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT