NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PACERS v HEAT
May 28, 2013
Roy Hibbert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.   Roy, what did you feel like you guys did better defensively tonight than you did in Game 3? 
    ROY HIBBERT:   We contained the ball a lot more with our, let's say, one, two, four pick‑and‑rolls.   We took care of some stuff, so I don't have to rotate as much.   I was able to get out to Bosh and Haslem.   So yeah, we did that effectively. 
    I have to give kudos to our guards.   Because they did a real good job of keeping their men in front of them, so I don't have to rotate as much. 

Q.   Each time it looked like they might be getting you on the ropes, third quarter and then again in the fourth quarter after the blown 24‑second violation, you guys found a way to gather yourselves and sort of put it away and refocus.   What allows you, what causes you to be able to do that? 
    ROY HIBBERT:   We're mentally tough.   Not one guy in that locker room didn't believe we were going to win this game tonight.   We showed fortitude and we picked each other up.   We never held our heads down.   We know they're the champs.   They're one of the best teams in the NBA right now.   We know we're going to be fighting an uphill battle.   We're never going to give up.   We're relentless.   All those guys in there, they believe we can win.   No matter what all the analysts or whoever says anything, they count us out, those guys in the locker room were ready to play and we went out and played our hearts out and I applaud all of them. 

Q.   You're rebounding the ball very well in this series.   You have a confidence with them that you're going to be able to get these loose balls when you're in there? 
    ROY HIBBERT:   I think I'm in the right place at the right time.   Just trying to be physical.   275, I gotta throw my body around.   I'm just trying to do my part and create extra possessions and try to be tough.   It's a mental thing, really.   Do you want to go in there and bang with LeBron, Chris Bosh and Birdman or would you rather just be on the outskirts of the paint and just say I'm just going to get back in transition? 
    It takes lot of time.   You work on your body, but you have to throw yourself in there, and that's one of the aspects I try to bring if I don't have the ball in my hands. 

Q.   Roy, going into the series, how much of an advantage did you guys feel you had in the front court?   And how have you taken advantage of that? 
    ROY HIBBERT:   David and myself, we really match up pretty well.   They're unique because they have five guys that can really shoot from the perimeter.   We respect that.   So you can't be caught, quote, unquote, ball‑watching too much, because Haslem or Chris Bosh can really do a lot of damage out there.   I think we're evenly matched.   And it's just a matter of who wants it more.   Tonight we came out on top. 
    Nobody said this was going to be easy.   We have to fight for every possession.   It matters.   And we embrace this challenge right here. 
    Offensive end, I try to do my assignments, try to be big in the paint as much possible, try to be a target.   If I get the ball, go ahead and score those little chippies around the basket or be strong and get the offensive rebound. 

Q.   Roy, at this time last year, Lance was involved with all the nonsense with the choke sign and stuff like that.   This time 20 points tonight.   How far has he come?   And how rewarding is it to see him have games like this? 
    ROY HIBBERT:   I'm going to be truthfully honest, Lance is a great player for us.   He's still young.   This is really his rookie season despite the years he has.   He's playing consistent minutes this year.   He has to grow up and is continuing to grow.   He's being thrown into the fire having to guard D‑Wade and LeBron and stuff like that. 
    So I'm really happy for him.   He knows he has to keep on evolving and improving.   We need him to win.   When he plays like that, that's great.   If he can harness this every single game he plays, there's no defense for that. 

Q.   Roy, he was like a one‑man fast break tonight. 
    ROY HIBBERT:   Yeah. 

Q.   What was his impact on the game?   He seemed to be the fearless guy on the floor. 
    ROY HIBBERT:   He brings that.   I mean, when you hear him in practice, he's saying, "Brooklyn.   Brooklyn.   Get out of here."   He has that little swag to him.   Tonight he brought it for us.   Paul got in a little bit of foul trouble.   He picked his game up. 
    Hopefully he can do that night in and night out.   As a young player, it's going to be hard.   But if he can do that and grow‑‑ we have this much to do in this amount of time.   He has to continue to keep growing. 

Q.   Frank mentioned that he has asked to guard LeBron James.   Not that many people do that. 
    ROY HIBBERT:   Yeah, Paul got in a little bit of foul trouble.   Next man up.   Paul does it without question, without arguing.   He does a great job.   Tonight he had a couple of fouls, and we could have just said, LeBron can go off.   But Lance stepped up.   Sam stepped up.   We always tell them, we have your back if LeBron gets to the paint.   He did a good job. 

Q.   When LeBron fouls out and there's still time left in the game, is there a surprise?   Is there a shock seeing a guy like that walk to the bench?   What's the feeling knowing he's not going to be around? 
    ROY HIBBERT:   They have terrific players on the court.   Ray Allen hit a big three for them.   Who else?   D‑Wade is explosive.   So they're the big three for a reason.   Chris Bosh can hit threes from the corner.   Terrific offensive player.   So we don't rest.   They're a terrific team.   But we know they're still dangerous. 

Q.   Roy, there was so much discussion going into this game about the impact James had in the post in the last game.   Tonight only a couple of post‑ups.   He seemed to really settle for the perimeter.   Was that what you guys were doing defensively to discourage him or what was that adjustment? 
    ROY HIBBERT:   Tell you the truth, we threw some bodies at him, in, out, in.   But our guards and forwards relished the opportunity to go out there and compete with the best player in the NBA.   We made things tough for him.   He passed it out, he found some shooters.   Day in and day out, it's going to be a struggle and a challenge, but we're ready for it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT