AMERICAN ATHLETIC CONFERENCE MEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
March 14, 2019
Joe Dooley
Jayden Gardner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Wichita State, 73 - ECU, 57   
COACH JOE DOOLEY: I thought obviously Wichita wore us down in the paint, and we didn't respond very well.  We gave up a lot of points in the first half off of second shots and off of our turnovers, and that was the difference of the game, especially in the first half.   
 Q.  Obviously, not the outcome that you would have liked to see.  What positives do you think you could take away from the season as a whole?  
JAYDEN GARDNER: I mean, at the end of the season, you always have to look back and look what you can do better.  Obviously, we have some down time so I will be able to get back in the gym, work on my craft, and work on my game, and start getting ready for the next season as soon as possible.   
 Q.  Coach, maybe if you can talk a bit about the progression of the program from a year ago when you took it over to where you are tonight.  
COACH JOE DOOLEY: There's -- we've got a long way to go and we know it.  I do think -- I was disappointed with the way we played tonight in a lot of regards.  For the most part, the latter part of the season, we've been very competitive and this wasn't what we've been doing.  I think we have a lot of work to do.  We need to do a lot of recruiting.  We need to -- we have a long way to go, and we've got to get after it.   
 Q.  Can you talk about the gentleman sitting next to you and what he accomplished this year and all that he proved this year in this league.  
COACH JOE DOOLEY: One thing about it is his effort is consistent, and the reason his effort was consistent is because his attitude was consistent, his work ethic was consistent.  And one of the things about Jayden -- this is a compliment -- he does have a long way to go.  He will put the work in and he'll continue to get better.   
 Q.  Can you tell us what it was like for your first Conference tournament?  Would you say the level of competition was higher because of a one-and-done situation?  
JAYDEN GARDNER: I mean, every Conference tournament has a high competition.  Unfortunately, Wichita State played harder than us tonight and they wanted it more than us tonight.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT