NCAA MEN'S 1ST AND 2ND ROUNDS: RALEIGH
March 16, 2016
Joe Dooley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: At this time we're ready to go ahead with the coach's portion of the press conference with Florida Gulf Coast.  Coach Dooley is ready to go ahead and entertain any questions.  So are there any questions for Coach?
Q. Hey, Joe.  Inside, obviously you dominated the A-Sun, you did a really good job against Fairleigh-Dickinson the other night.  North Carolina is a different deal.  Obviously they're going to have size on you and they may have as much quickness as you or more quickness than you usually see in the big guys.  What do you need to do in the paint tomorrow night and how do you think you guys will do in the paint tomorrow night?
JOE DOOLEY: They have size and depth and athleticism, which is pretty good if you're coaching them.  They can come at you a number of ways, they can be big and physical, they are long and athletic, protect the basket.  I think what you see is a lot of things with the domination of on the backboard from those guys, three, four, five.  Those guys have remarkable numbers, offensive rebounding the ball.  Our guys have to be smart.  You can't run in there and flip up shots because they have great shot-blocking ability.  We have to also put them in situations where we can move them around a little bit before we can shoot the ball.
Q. What time did you get in? Kind of what was the travel and set-up trying to get in here as quickly as you did?
JOE DOOLEY: Well, what we did, is we told our guys yesterday afternoon to pack for after the game and what we did, after we won, we went back to the hotel.  Our guys, we had about 25 minutes.  We packed, loaded bus.  Bussed over to Dayton.  Boarded the plane and landed at 12:20, 12:15.  We were in the hotel about 1:15.  Had the guys sleep in a little bit this morning and had to get back to a regular routine for us.
Q. Coach, you were an assistant at East Carolina for a number of years.  Made the Tournament in '93 I think under Eddie Payne.
JOE DOOLEY: Correct.
Q. Tell me what about that experience that helped prep you for this and many other postseason appearances.
JOE DOOLEY: Just I think, like anything else, the more you're around it, there's lessons that you learn.  I mean we were -- that win jump-started us.  That NCAA Tournament jump-started us a little bit at East Carolina.  We had been struggling a little bit.  We got to the Tournament and Eddie had us going for a couple years before he left for Oregon State.
We played Carolina I believe in Winston-Salem.  Played a pretty good game.  Carolina had a great team.  I thought it did a lot to jump-start the program at East Carolina for a little stretch.  I think as you go along you learn lessons.  That was one.  Then you learn a lot of lessons at New Mexico, Wyoming and Kansas they help you prepare.
Q. Somebody asked Andy Enfield what he thought it took for a 16 seed to beat a 1 seed and the first thing he mentioned was they have to believe they can do it.  How big of a mental challenge is tomorrow's game for this team?
JOE DOOLEY: Our guys are pretty loose.  I don't think it's a mental challenge.  I think that we're going to talk about -- we don't talk about winning or losing, really, we talk about let's prepare, let's play and most important, these guys have some fun.  It's great exposure.  Great opportunity for our program to keep growing it.  The guys will be loose and I think they'll play with confidence.
Q. Coach Dooley, obviously preparing for Fairleigh-Dickinson and North Carolina, how different are these teams and the preparation for both of these teams?
JOE DOOLEY: They are entirely different styles.  FD likes to play fast.  When you get into games with the elite games like Carolina, the athleticism, level of quickness, the height.  You're not used to seeing 6'8" wings.  That's a four or five on our league.  Now all of a sudden he's on the perimeter.  Now if you go for a rebound, if you don't go after it with two hands, they can rebound it.  Length on the wings is different.  There's not a way to prepare for it because you haven't seen it before.  We played Florida and Texas A&M.  I think the athleticism from Carolina as opposed to those guys is far superior.
Q. Joe, how well do you know Andy Enfield?  From the time you've been in charge at the program have you guys traded notes at all how things are at FGCU and maybe about the run they made a few years ago?
JOE DOOLEY: I've talked to Andy about it.  Andy has been great.  The think about it is he jump-started the program.  He's got a vested interest in the thing, too.  I think that's a pretty cool deal when you're at some place and get it going -- I have tremendous -- we follow Kansas religiously.  We still feel invested in the program.  I think Andy helped jump-start our program and we want continued success.  A lot of the success is attributed to him.  We want to keep it going and I think he feels proud of what he accomplished and help the program accomplish.
THE MODERATOR: Are there any other question then? Once, twice? All right.  Coach, thank you very much, and good luck tomorrow.
JOE DOOLEY: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT