NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: PENGUINS v RED WINGS
June 1, 2009
Justin Abdelkader
Henrik Zetterberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. This is the podium two days in a row for you. Are you getting used to the star treatment or what? 
 JUSTIN ABDELKADER: I don't know. I don't know what's going on. I had to double check I was on the list in there (smiling). 

 Q. What is it like being from Michigan and being able to do what you've done in the last two games in the Stanley Cup Final? 
 JUSTIN ABDELKADER: Yeah, I think it's pretty special. Hopefully I can be somebody that the young kids in Michigan can look up to. Someone that can be a positive role model. You know, it's been such a tough economy, you know, hopefully it can be not only me, but our team can be an inspiration. 

 Q. A question about the way guys are contributing anyway you possibly can, with you diving into the net. I know the other night as well when the puck was on top of Ozzie's back, you were one of the guys that was kind of on top of there, kind of securing it. Just talk about the physical level of play, and the way guys really laid on the line this time of the year, and specifically things that you are doing? 
 HENRIK ZETTERBERG: Well, I think it's automatic this time of year that you sacrifice a little bit extra. I know games are pretty important, and you don't know which player is going to decide who is going to win or lose. 
 JUSTIN ABDELKADER: Yeah, like Henrik said. It's important. Every game's important. It's the best time of year to play hockey, that's for sure. And I think everyone's putting it on the line, whether it's finishing your checks, blocking shots, doing whatever it takes. Because you don't want to look back a month from now and be like oh, I could have blocked that shot or what if I would have finished my check here. You don't want to have any regrets, so you want to lay it on the line.

 Q. You guys were in the same scenario last year at this time. Just talk about going into Game 3 and the day off today and what you do before tomorrow night at 8:00 o'clock? 
 HENRIK ZETTERBERG: Yeah, I would say it was welcomed to have a day off. It was a pretty tough start back-to-back here, and it was nice to just recoup and get some energy back. 
 For tomorrow, we know it's going to be a little bit different. It's going to be an exciting time. It's going to be loud out there. You know, they will have the last change, so it will be probably a little different strategies out there. So it's going to be -- yeah, you say we've been in this situation last year, too, and we know we have to play really good hockey. I always say it's going to be tough. 

 Q. Justin, can you answer the same question? 
 JUSTIN ABDELKADER: Tell you the truth, I wouldn't mind playing three games in three nights (laughing). No, I'm just kidding. It's nice to have a day off. I think it's good for the guys to get the rest. Like Hank said, they're on their home ice, this he get last change. So I think we're in a good situation. We took care of our home ice, and now we're coming into Mellon Arena. It's always a hostile environment. But it's a fun environment, I think. The guys are looking forward to it. And, you know, just get your rest and be ready for Tuesday. 

 Q. Assuming the match-ups do change, Henrik, how do you play Malkin differently than you played Crosby? 
 HENRIK ZETTERBERG: Well, they both are great players. They like to have the puck and they can make the plays. They can as for Crosby, he can create a lot out of nothing. So you have to be aware and play them tight. 

 Q. Did you feel like you needed to protect Ozzie last night? And do you think there's going to be any carryover into Game 3? 
 HENRIK ZETTERBERG: I don't think so. Stuff like that happens, and I think it was blown a little bit out of proportion. It was just a scrum, and that's what happens in playoffs. 

 Q. A lot of guys said after last night that you guys could play even better. Most players agree with that a. I know Coach Babcock agrees with that. In your opinion, what can you guys do better in Game 3? 
 HENRIK ZETTERBERG: Well, we can take care of our puck a little bit better. Execute on the first passes. It would make it a lot easier for us. Minimize our mistakes, especially on the blue lines. Get the pucks out, pucks in. And if we do that, it will be easier, too. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT