WENDY'S CHAMPIONSHIP FOR CHILDREN
August 3, 2002
Dina Ammaccapane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MODERATOR:  Danielle, awesome round, 65.  One shot off career low.  Actually, it was a 62.  Start with the score card.
DANIELLE AMMACCAPANE:  Let's see.  Let's start on the backside.  Birdied 11, 13 and 16.  Give me a second, I have to focus.  I can't remember the holes.  Help me out on 11. 
Okay, sand wedge, about 15 feet. 
Birdied the par 5.  Had just, again, 50, 60 yards in there.  I hit that pretty close, like about two and a half feet, somewhere in there, two feet. 
MODERATOR:  What club was that? 
DANIELLE AMMACCAPANE:  Sand wedge.  I had 50 yards. 
Then on 16, I hit 8-iron probably 20 feet. 
Then on the front side, I birdied 2, 5, 7 and 9. 
2, I drove it in the right trap, then hit (inaudible), had a 6-iron into the background.  Just off the back edge.  Had one of those up and overs.  I just went in, just barely went in.  One of those where I was just trying to get close. 
MODERATOR:  5. 
DANIELLE AMMACCAPANE:  5, par 5, I hit sand wedge.  I think I only had like 55 yards or something.  That one I made a long one, too.  That was probably 20, 25 feet there. 
7, hit a 9-iron in there probably 10 feet. 
No.  9, hit it in the front bunker, hit sand wedge up there, I don't know, probably four feet, something like that.  I was trying to lay short of that bunker, but didn't work. 
MODERATOR:  How many feet? 
DANIELLE AMMACCAPANE:  Just, I don't know, four or five feet. 
MODERATOR:  Can you talk about how you felt out there? 
DANIELLE AMMACCAPANE:  Well, I didn't hit it very good yesterday, then went to the range and worked on a couple things.  I putted it good.  I didn't really work too much on that.  The putter felt really good today.  Obviously, I had a hot putter today. 
I hit the ball better, and I seem to have put it on the right side of the hole to be able to have some putts, be able to make them.  You know, other than the one on No. 2, which I wasn't really, you know, trying to make that one, the others were on the right side of the hole, putting uphill.  I had pretty good chances.  You know, I felt pretty good that I could kind of make a run at it, even from 25 feet, because you're putting up the hill.  I thought that was important today.  That was probably key today. 
But the golf course, it's going to give you what it gives you.  Sometimes, what you're trying to play for, it doesn't even happen.  You don't know what it's going to do out there sometimes. 
You know, I'm extremely pleased with today. 

Q.   Were you looking at the board today, seeing a lot of people?
DANIELLE AMMACCAPANE:  I did not actually look at the board at all. 

Q.   Didn't seem to be a lot of really good scores.  A lot of people kept where they were yesterday.  Why were you able to make up ground?  Did you make that big of a change?
DANIELLE AMMACCAPANE:  No, I didn't.  Like I said, I think I got it on the right side of the hole.  I had a hot putter.  I made probably  -- I mean, the only ones where you really expect to make them was like 9, 7.  You know, 2 and 5 were long.  They were 25 feet, at least.  11, I would expect to make that one.  13 was two feet.  Yeah, I would make that one.  Then on 16, how far did I say I hit it?  I hit three putts that were fairly long today, you know.  Three of those, you're not really looking to make them.  The putter feels good in your hand, sometimes from that distance, depends where you're at, you can sometimes make them.  Sometimes they just go in, have a good day, you'll take them (laughter).

Q.   What did you work on after yesterday's round?
DANIELLE AMMACCAPANE:  Just down at the range.  I didn't hit my short-irons very good, the scoring clubs, yesterday.  I just went down to the range trying to hit a little shorter swing, hit down through it.  Nothing major.  I seemed to pull a lot of clubs.  When I pull my short clubs, it's just because I'm not accelerating through the ball.  Kind after deceleration kind of thing, too far back, then slowing down.

Q.   You're not the first player that's come in here the last two days and had to focus to remember what happened.  A couple of the players have told me this is the hottest week you've had out on tour.  I wondered how you're keeping your wits about you and making good decisions. 
DANIELLE AMMACCAPANE:  A good caddie always helps.  No, really, I mean, I don't carry a book, so a good caddie.  I think my caddie has helped me a lot.  You know, I had a headache out there.  I still do now.  It's just from the heat.  I'm carrying a sun umbrella, and it's helping a lot. 
You know, I hit it in some spots where you just kind of have to take your medicine and then just kind of go.  But then there's other spots.  You know, it helped to hit it good today, and I hit it good today, I hit it in the right spots.  I had to get a few up and down, on some fringes and stuff like that.  I had to get one up and down on a bunker from No.  17.  Hit a really good shot in there, but it hits hard and goes in the back of the bunker.  There's no place to land it.  You're going to have shots like that where you just have to try to get it up and down. 
Fortunately, today, like I said, I had the putter going. 

Q.   What would you say as far as a collection of par 3 holes on a course?  These seem to be playing as  -- they're more difficult than any other holes on the course.  What makes them what they are?  I guess they're the signature of the course. 
DANIELLE AMMACCAPANE:  Yeah, they're good par 3s, really good par 3s.  Well, I think what's making them good this week is the fact that they're burnt.  The grass is dead and they're burnt.  There's no place to land.  You've got to have perfect yardage.  You've got to hit it good to get some spin on the ball.  And they're not very deep.  They're real narrow.  Well, I mean, if you don't hit it good, it's got enough spin on it, forget it, you're going to be hitting over the green, chipping back. 
Today I nipped them on the par 3s.  Even the one on No.  17 where I hit it in the back bunker, I hit it good, as good as I could hit it, full height, just gone.  But there's no place to land it.  I don't want to land it short, I'm in the water.  So you have to miss long on that hole.  That's what I did. 
Yeah, they're good par 3s.  That's what you've got to try to do, try to get the right yardage, you have to  -- you either try to miss it or leave it so you can have a putt.  I know there's one par 3, No.  8, my caddie said, "Don't try and be a hero, just go a little right of it."  I did.  I had perfect yardage.  I hit it great.  Spun, pole high.  I almost made the putt.  It just lipped out.  You have to do that. 
Yesterday I didn't seem to do that.  Yesterday I was trying to go at some pins.  They're hitting at the hole, going off.  Now I'm chipping from down the slopes.  I was having all sorts of problems yesterday.  Today, I played a little better.  Just not knowing the golf course, too, first time being here, makes it a little hard knowing where exactly you want to be. 

Q.   What is your caddie's name?
DANIELLE AMMACCAPANE:  Dan Wilson.  He's been out here for like 20 some years.  He is probably one of the best caddies out here, and I'm lucky to have him.

Q.   Can you talk about the collection of scores you put together recently?  You had a 62. 
DANIELLE AMMACCAPANE:  Yeah, two weeks ago.  I took off last week.

Q.   Putting together some spectacular rounds. 
DANIELLE AMMACCAPANE:  I'm putting together some good rounds of golf.  The putter has been the big difference.  I changed a couple things.  You know, feels good in my hands.  When I see the line, it's all feel for me.  Some days with putting, it can be very awful.  But it's been pretty good for a while.  When I'm bad right now, it's not really all that bad. 

Q.   You mentioned the sun umbrella.  I saw a lot out there.  Are they fairly recent?
DANIELLE AMMACCAPANE:  No.  I've had one for 10, 12 years.  I've had one for a very long time.

Q.   With the silver on top and black underneath?
DANIELLE AMMACCAPANE:  It's green underneath.  I had one that was blue underneath.  I lost it.  Then I ordered another one.  But these are great.  Just for the fact that you're in shade, the sun is just not beating on you.  I wear visors.  I have black hair.  For some reason like today, I get a headache in really hot weather because the sun soaks up on the black hair, it makes me even hotter.  There have been times where I just felt nauseous, come off the golf course and just felt nauseous in heat like this.  I try to keep it more off my head.

Q.   Have you ever measured what the temperature is on top of that reflector and underneath?
DANIELLE AMMACCAPANE:  I have no idea.  All I know is it's so much cooler underneath than it is out on top.  I don't know.  They claim it's like 10 degrees cooler underneath it.  But I know that I like the way I feel underneath it.  It's like standing in the shade.  It feels better. 





End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT