NEW ALBANY GOLF CLASSIC
September 29, 2000
Dina Ammaccapane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DINA AMMACCAPANE: Birdied 2 and 3. 2 from about eight feet. 3, I holed it out from the
bunker. Lucky it went in. Just leave it at that. Green-side bunker. 5, I birdied. That was
about twelve feet. 6, I missed a short one for birdie. 8, I birdied. Made a good one
there, probably 25, 30-footer. That was it. Bogeyed 9. Bogeyed 12 again. Bogeyed 13.
Birdied 16. And parred in. 16, tapped it in. Six inches. I actually hit a good shot. The
chip hit the hole, then I just missed the putt. It wasn't a very good putt. Actually the
chip wasn't close, but. . . 13, right in the trees, punched out, 200 front and tried to go
for it and then hit in the water. I had about a 30-yard lob shot over the water, hit it
close, made the putt for bogey. I think that was it. I hit every green from 14 on. 

Q. I was just going to get your performance sheet. It looks like your finishes for the
last month or so have a little bit better from the rest of the year. Have you been playing
well for any particular reason?

DINA AMMACCAPANE: I think the putts are falling. I haven't been feeling that well this
week. I came from the Pro-Am feeling a little sick. Sometimes when you are sick it helps,
too. I think the putts are just going in. I just seem to finish the years -- every year I
always finish pretty strong, it seems like. I played well here last year so I have good
thoughts. I always get off to a slow start; even more so this year because my sister had a
baby and I didn't want to be away in Hawaii or Australia. And, of course, the birth of a
child is, you know, once in a lifetime, especially the first one, so I wanted to be there
for that.

Q. What happened at your favorite hole today as opposed to -- you parred, I can see
that?

DINA AMMACCAPANE: I hit the green. I said to Murry, I said, I am doing about 5 better
right now (laughs).

Q. No sign of the martian? 

DINA AMMACCAPANE: No, I think he skipped town. I don't know where he is.

Q. You said sometimes you play better when you are not feeling well? A lot of players
say that. Why is that?

DINA AMMACCAPANE: I think maybe because you don't really have the energy or you just
kind of -- your swing is a little easier and your rhythm is probably a little better. You
don't try as hard. Sometimes you put the pressure on yourself.

Q. What do you have, just a head cold?

DINA AMMACCAPANE: I have no idea.

Q. Got it here this week?

DINA AMMACCAPANE: Yeah, Monday night. I think it is just one week wearing shorts; next
week we are in our parkers. That is what it feels like.

Q. Looking ahead to this weekend, what, I don't know, you probably assume you are going
to be feeling the same way you are feeling now for the next two days. How do you approach
the weekend given that?

DINA AMMACCAPANE: I am going to try to do what I did the first two days and this -- I
am putting really well and if I keep putting well, keep hitting the greens, just give
myself a lot of chances. I can't control what everyone else is doing. If it's my week, let
it be. If I don't play well, it is not because I am sick. No excuses. (laughs).

Q. (inaudible)

DINA AMMACCAPANE: When I finished second in Springfield, she is in the room next to me,
screaming every morning at 5:30. She had me up. She was teething really bad that week. I
don't stay with them too much. My sister's husband is out quite a bit. He works while he
is on the road and helps. We try to stay in the same hotel a few doors down. She is good.
She is a lot better now, though. She is seven months, so she helps with those bad rounds,
I come back and she smiles at you and you forget about everything. She is cute.

Q. What is her name?

DINA AMMACCAPANE: Laura Ann.

Q. (inaudible)

DINA AMMACCAPANE: No, she didn't come this week. Too far for one week.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT