NEW ALBANY GOLF CLASSIC
September 28, 2000
Dina Ammaccapane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
DINA AMMACCAPANE:  I hit 7-iron to about five feet.  
 
DINA AMMACCAPANE:   I hit 9-iron in the water.  Went up to the drop zone, hit it long, and 3-putted from the fringe, from the back fringe.  3-putted the next hole, pin-high.  16, hit it  -- tapped it in  -- it almost went in the hole.  I hit it about 60 yards.  Just went over the edge.  Next, probably made an 18 -, 20-footer.  And 1, made about a 15-footer there.  2, it was probably about 12 feet.  3 was long, about 25 feet.  Next, hit it right in the front of the green and chipped up to about a foot.  8, I had 85 yards.  I hit sand wedge about five feet.  9, I hit 8-iron to about  -- six, seven feet.  My distance is horrible.  8 and 9, hit sand wedge.  
 
DINA AMMACCAPANE:   We were standing there.  We were waiting for the  -- waiting for the group in front to get off the green, and the volunteer was about, I don't know, 10 feet behind me.  And he says, "Are you Danielle's sister?"  And I turned around and I said yes.   And he goes:  "She hit it in the water here."  And I'm just shaking my head, I'm look  -- my caddy walked up and I go, "I really didn't need to hear that."  So what did I do?  I hit it in the water and made triple.  I was not happy.  I mean, comments like that happen a lot.  And yeah, we are sisters, but just leave it at that.  I didn't need to know that.  And I proceeded  -- then I carried it on to the next hole, because I hit a good shot in there and I 3-putted.  And then after that  -- I had to settle down.  
 
Q.  (Inaudible.)
 
DINA AMMACCAPANE:   On 16, we were joking  -- I almost holed out for a 3 and I tapped in for a birdie and I got to the next tee and I looked at my group and I said, "Do you think Danielle hit it that close?"  Sometimes I can be smart, a little bit.  But we joked.  And then I birdied another hole.  I go, "Do you think Danielle birdied the last?"   We were joking about it afterwards, because I had to.  
 
Q.  Was this volunteer just on that hole or was the volunteer with you the whole way?
 
DINA AMMACCAPANE:   No.  He was just on that tee.  So my caddy goes:  "You'd better not be there tomorrow morning, because I'm going to send him far away."  Well, you know, if he's there tomorrow and he says  -- you know, he could say the same thing to Danielle.  He could turn around and go:  "Well, your sister hit it in the water here, too."  I hope he just doesn't say something like that.  
 
Q.  Where does this rank on the scale of wildest rounds in your career?
 
DINA AMMACCAPANE:   Oh, I've had many more.  I've had 7 birdies and an eagle and shot 1-under.  This does not surprise me.  It won't surprise my father when I call him, either. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT