OKLAHOMA CITY THUNDER MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 23, 2016
Cameron Payne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How does the foot feel?  
CAMERON PAYNE: My foot's feeling pretty good.  It's starting to get back there, get back out there on the court, so I'm definitely happen.   
 Q.  What do you think is going to be the hardest part for you to adjust to after having surgery?  
CAMERON PAYNE: Just getting a good feeling jumping off of it.  But besides that, I mean, once you get down the court, it's really hard to think about it.  But just trying to get some lift, that's really the main thing.   
 Q.  What do you think about the addition of Oladipo on the team?  
CAMERON PAYNE: I think that was a big-time move for us.  He's a combo guard, can run the run, can do the two, can do the three.  He's a very dynamic guy, very explosive and he can shoot the ball, and like I say, it's going to be a big-time addition for us.   
 Q.  You talked about one of your goals this summer of putting on some muscle; is that something you feel you accomplished given the injury?  
CAMERON PAYNE: I think I accomplished that but I still think I need to get a little bit more weight added just because I'm a just a little guy (laughter) and I don't really like getting beat up like that and I don't like being injured neither.  I feel like putting on a little more weight, keeping away from injuries.   
 Q.  How much do you put on in the summer?  
CAMERON PAYNE: I put on ten pounds this summer.  I'm trying to at least get at least 15, 16 pounds but just all muscle.  I've been getting a little chubby sitting down with the foot injury.  So I'm trying to lose that and turn it into a little muscle.   
 Q.  Was it your choice to play in the summer league?  How did that experience impact your game?  
CAMERON PAYNE: Yeah, it was my choice, just because I didn't get to play the first time when I first got drafted because I was injured.  So I wanted to play.  I felt like I had to prove myself, something to prove.   
 Q.  Have you talked to Coach Donovan about how your role might change this coming season?  
CAMERON PAYNE: Not really.  It's kind of hard to really talk about it since I haven't been practicing or anything.  But I feel like whatever role he has me do, whatever role I get put on to being the 15th player at the end, or is it even start, whatever role it is, I'm all for it.  But besides that, just trying to get better every day.  Trying to get back in the swing of things period.   
 Q.  How long are you going to let that hair grow?  
CAMERON PAYNE: It's crazy, a lot of people ask me that question.  I didn't think that was a big thing.  I don't know.  I think I'll let it go.  I'm going to let it grow one more season and then after that, I think I have to change it up a little bit.   
 Q.  You got any events this season --  
CAMERON PAYNE: Out of all the questions, that might be the one I can't answer for you.  But I got to.  I've got to wait for it till the first game of the season.   
 Q.  We saw some of your fashion sense this summer -- how much is that for from Russ?  
CAMERON PAYNE: A lot.  Russell, he has a very unique style.  I really like fashion myself.  Like he says, Swag Daddy, that's my motto, just try to be swag with everything I do.  So if it's fashion, on the court, anything, I just try to look the best at doing it.   
 Q.  When exactly did you and the team know that you had a broken foot last season?  
CAMERON PAYNE: Well, it wasn't broken.  That was just a little crack.  I found out late December, and they said it was tolerable, so I could play through it.  And I was all for that.  I didn't have this little injury for a long time.  This summer was a good time for me to get it fixed.  But I wanted to play through it.  I didn't want to get surgery during the season.  I wanted to play Summer League and there was enough time, and like now, I'm on the way back, and I'm able be ready for training camp.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT