OKLAHOMA CITY THUNDER MEDIA CONFERENCE
June 1, 2016
Cameron Payne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions.
Q. (No microphone.)
CAMERON PAYNE: Man, it was a real great season.  Western Conference Finals, my first year.  Couldn't ask for anything better than that.  I experienced a lot.  I learned a lot.  We went through a lot of adversity this year.  It helped us grow as a team.
For me being a part of that, I feel (indiscernible) player.
Q. Pulled in and out of the rotation, especially in the Spurs series (indiscernible)?
CAMERON PAYNE: It's definitely different from the regular season, for sure.  You have to be very focused every day, locked in, 'cause you never know when you going to get in.  Like you said, I was pulled in and out.
So just coming in, staying ready, sticking to the game plan.  It's just a different level from the regular season.  It was a lot of fun.  But getting pulled in and out was just a learning experience.  I just got to be better.
Q. Against San Antonio, did you feel like yourself?
CAMERON PAYNE: I felt like myself.  I just wanted to make the right play every time.  I mean, they can get you sometimes, you know what I'm saying, instead of just being relaxed, going out and playing.
Q. What do you remember about the stretch around Christmas, they put you in, your first big game?  Is that something you kind of look back on, that 10-or-so-game stretch?
CAMERON PAYNE: I look back at it all the time, just to see when I first started playing and stuff.  But I felt like I was just so anxious to play.  I was so anxious.  Once I got the opportunity, I felt like I was ready, I felt like I prepared for it.  I came out and I played pretty good.
I feel like I had gained a lot of trust then, a lot of people, you know what I'm saying, felt like I was a pretty good player, so...
I felt like I was doing a pretty good job during that little stretch.  But it fell off.  I started missing shots.  I kind of let that get to me instead of just going to the next game.  But, like I said, this year has been up and down.  Had a lot of adversity, but it made me a better player.
Q. (Indiscernible).  What kind of led to those struggles mid-season?
CAMERON PAYNE: I wouldn't say rookie wall.  I really felt like I didn't hit that wall.  I felt like I didn't hit that wall because the people on our team, you know what I'm saying, they keep you going.
But it's basketball.  You're not going to make every shot, so...  Things are going to happen.  Things are not going to go your way.  You just got to be happy with the result no matter what.
Q. (Indiscernible) did you feel they were handing over that backup role to you?
CAMERON PAYNE: Kind of sort of, but at the same time, I mean, we were getting somebody in return.  I never felt that it was just given to me.  I knew I still was in competition, still had to work hard, I mean, every day do the same thing I was doing to keep that position or to get back.
Q. You obviously showed your quickness, your vision, play-making ability.  Guys gave you a ton of credit for the way you defended in that Spurs game.  Where can you continue to grow?  What are your top-priority areas to get better?
CAMERON PAYNE: I got to get bigger, first off.  I got to get bigger.  I know I look 12 every game.  But I definitely got to get bigger.
I got to work on my defense.  Still get better defensively.  Like I say all the time, offense going to come, it's going to come playing defense.  Getting stops, getting on the break, things like that.  That's what comes out of me when we just get playing just in transition and things like that, so...
Me getting better defensively and getting bigger is the main two focus points.
Q. Are you still using the walking boot when you're not playing?  What was the reason for that?  Can you kind of explain that for us?
CAMERON PAYNE: It was just precautionary.  I mean, we got great doctors.  They was just looking out for me.
But, I mean, now, just getting ready for summer league, I'm not in it anymore.  Just getting ready for summer league.
Q. You definitely are going to play summer league?
CAMERON PAYNE: As of right now, yes, I am.
Q. Were you surprised at all that your dancing pregame kind of took off like it did?  All eyes on you guys now, all over the Internet.
CAMERON PAYNE: Yeah, I actually was surprised because we was doing it all season.  No one cared.  I mean, probably some site put it up a lot.  I know we did, the Thunder did a lot.  No one really cared.  'Cause, I mean, they was just getting ready for the game.  You know what I'm saying, so...
Now, when the playoffs came, the Mavericks made it a big deal.  It came on every night.  It came on every night we played a TV game.  They seen us doing it every night doing it.  I felt like that's why people, you know what I'm saying, felt the need to talk about it.
Q. Is it fun, that phenomenon, at all for you?
CAMERON PAYNE: Yeah, it's fun.  It's definitely fun.  I mean, to actually, you know what I'm saying...  People want to distract or take away from something that you're doing, make it seem like they jealous, you know.  Obviously fun.  I like getting in people head.  With us doing that, people felt like, you know what I'm saying, they trying to show us up or something.
It's like, Nah, just getting ready for the game, just something we do every day.  So, I mean, it was a ton of fun.
Q. What did you learn most from Russ this year?
CAMERON PAYNE: Being ready every day.  Being ready to come out and play every day.  That's the main thing, 'cause he does it every day, no matter if we just watching film, no matter if we just getting treatment, or if it was a game day.  He come ready for anything we have to do.  That's one of the biggest things that he taught me this year.
Q. Did you get a sense that your relationship with Russ and Kevin, that you were able to kind of make an impact off the court, even if you weren't necessarily in the rotation at certain times?
CAMERON PAYNE: I kind of felt like I did.  But, I mean, just the same way I try to get them to give me confidence, I just tried to do the same back in return.  Just, you know, when I'm on the bench, just try to give them any confidence they need to make the next shot or make the next defensive stop, or even in practice, you know what I'm saying, just try to talk, keep talking.  You know what I'm saying?  Anything that gives them confidence, it goes a long way, so...
Q. Do you get a sense from the organization that they view you as a big piece moving forward, starting next season?
CAMERON PAYNE: I mean, I felt like me being there watching is going to help me, is going to help me for sure.  But I really don't know what they got for me.  I'm just going to be ready.  When my name is called, I'll be ready.
Q. Did you walk up to guys and say, Let's think of a handshake, or did that just happen?
CAMERON PAYNE: No, everybody has a handshake with everybody.  But it's just the (indiscernible) handshake, it's real good.  You just got to make them real good.
But, I mean, I just have some with everybody.  That's the type of person I am.  I want to be special with that player.  We choose.  We choose, so...
It's just 'cause we got a lot of attention, I feel it's just something that I do.  I just like to, you know what I'm saying?  I don't know the words I'm looking for.  I just like to be cool with everybody.  That's basically all it is.  I'm a fun guy.  I like smiling.  I like seeing other people smile.  So just a little handshake, it goes a long way, so...
I just try to keep it updated all the time.
Q. What's your favorite one?
CAMERON PAYNE: Me and Russ, for sure, just 'cause we change it on the fly every game.
Q. Was there a point you were really frustrated about a lack of playing time this season?
CAMERON PAYNE: Definitely.  At the beginning 'cause, I mean, I wanted to play, I wanted to play every game if I could.  But, like I said, there's just adversity, something you got to fight through.
But like I've been saying all year, you just got to be ready for whenever my name's called.  Just got to keep working.  Once I get the opportunity, just be ready for it.
Q. Did watching the playoffs, people defending, teach you how important those minor things are?
CAMERON PAYNE: Definitely.  But we got all that from learning, listening, studying the game plan.  Like in the Spurs series, when I was in the rotation, my biggest thing was figuring out what Patty Mills did constantly over and over, him and Tony Parker, with my coaches.  It helped me.  It helped me defensively.  I feel like the game plan, listening to folks in the end, like you said, watching other players, it helps a lot.
Q. Were you watching tape of every play, just watch Patty Mills?
CAMERON PAYNE: I definitely watched a lot of tape about him, what his tendencies were, like him going right, go to shoot going right.  Just little things like that.  When you get in the game, you know what I'm saying, you know his tendencies basically.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT