U.S. GIRLS' JUNIOR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 26, 2017
Mika Liu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Another round of 64; how did it go today?
MIKA LIU: I think it went well.  I won in the end, so that's a plus.
Q. Walk me through the match a little bit.  Was it up and down?  Were you leading?  Was she leading?
MIKA LIU: I think in the beginning, the heat got me a little bit, and I was just playing hole by hole and I was taking it pretty easy, but then I eventually worked it up to 3-up, and I just kept my round at pars and outlasted her.
Q. When you got to 3-up, was that kind of your strategy, hit it straight, don't be too aggressive, or are you the opposite, do you get a little more aggressive when you're up?
MIKA LIU: I think when I got to 3-up today, I did notice a little bit how she was playing, but I didn't change my strategy, I just kept choosing my line and hitting where I wanted to hit.
Q. Tomorrow do you know who you're playing?
MIKA LIU: No, I don't.
Q. Do you normally look?
MIKA LIU: I don't think it's up yet.
Q. Do you know a lot of the girls here in the field, though?
MIKA LIU: I would call them the younger generation because they all know each other, and I know a few of them, but sometimes I'm just not caught up in what's going on.  I feel like a very old person.
Q. Is that funny for you coming back -- you know Haley Moore and --
MIKA LIU: I do know Haley.
Q. So is it fun to come back and catch up with some of those girls that you played with forever?
MIKA LIU: It is.  It's different.  When I play like amateur events, all I see is college kids, and now I come to U.S. Girls', and all I see is teenagers.  It's very different.
Q. It's supposed to rain probably tonight and hopefully cool down and not heat up.  How do you think the course will play if we do get some rain tonight?
MIKA LIU: Hopefully some of the greens drain well.  I know there's one green on the back nine that has a lot of spike marks on it, so I don't know how the rain will do with that, but hopefully the rain will cool everything down.  That would be nice.
Q. Is the course still in pretty good condition after a couple rounds?
MIKA LIU: Yeah, I think it's in pretty good condition.  It's just that one hole that's just dried up.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT