U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2015
Mika Liu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. You won three holes in a row there to kind of pull away, mid-round-ish?MIKA LIU: I don't even remember.  Obviously I don't remember.  It was pretty steady throughout the round.Q. You ended up with a couple birdies in a row and pulled yourself clear.  How does it feel to win?MIKA LIU: I'm glad I got through today.  I mean, after I played with Mariel, the whole day I was just like, okay, I'm going to have a good day.  I'm going to just play my shots.  I'm not going to put pressure on myself or anything like that, and then it worked out fine, and then that was distracting me from being tired or anything.  I guess I'm a little bit used to playing 36 holes.Q. Are you happy, though, to get this done early, to rest a little bit?MIKA LIU: I'm definitely glad to be early -- I forgot what hole that was but I had a birdie putt.  I didn't know if I made that, then we would have finished.  It would have been 5-up with four.  After I putted, I was like, oh, wait a minute.  But then once I had the 3-up, 4-up, I was like, okay, it's time to finish this early.  I have a chance.  With Mariel I wanted to finish really early but then it wasn't happening at all.  So I was like, okay, if I can just win out with her, I'll be fine.Q. How does it feel differently coming to a USGA championship having won one of these already?  Do you feel more confident?  Do you feel any different?MIKA LIU: You know, what I realized in this tournament was it wasn't just a USGA tournament.  I think what prepared me was having experience both from the Western, the Southern, and then after I won the U.S. Four-Ball and the Girls', those combined experiences definitely helped me a lot because at Western and Southern I've had to play three rounds of 36, so I know what it feels like, and with the Four-Ball and with the U.S. Girls' a little bit with the media, so I got a feel of that, too.Q. The cameras and --MIKA LIU: Yeah.Q. TV cameras?MIKA LIU: Yeah.  Everybody's nice.  It's funny to be like, hello.Q. At the Western you play 36 holes in three different rounds?MIKA LIU: For the last three days I played 36 in a row, and it was basically the same format as the USGA.Q. I read on your bio that you read the Wall Street Journal every day?MIKA LIU: Yeah.Q. Do you do that like when you're traveling and stuff?MIKA LIU: I like to read Wall Street Journal every day.  I feel good to be knowledgeable.  The only day I don't read it is when I'm playing like 36 and I go home and I immediately go to sleep because I like to sleep 12 hours a day.Q. Whoa, like how often do you sleep 12 hours a day?MIKA LIU: I started doing that actually in this tournament because my feet get pretty tired and then it wears down my mental.  I actually want to lose so I can go home earlier.  My dad said he was taking me to the winery after this tournament, and then I'm on vacation.  But yeah, reading Wall Street is definitely my go-to thing.Q. So when did you start sleeping 12 hours, what day?MIKA LIU: I did that I think in the beginning of this tournament, I think a day before this tournament started.  I had some time, so I just decided to sleep early.Q. Do you think that's helped?MIKA LIU: Yes, that definitely has.  I don't feel my feet, like, walking like a zombie in the morning.Q. What is your normal routine?MIKA LIU: Usually with my dad I sleep up to 10 hours, nine, 10 hours, during the tournaments, of course, and then during the school year, not so much.Q. Got to study and stuff, too?MIKA LIU: Yeah, it's really busy.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT