U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR FOUR-BALL CHAMPIONSHIP
May 12, 2015
Mika Liu
Rinko Mitsunaga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  So that was a marathon there right at the end.  Tell me how you're feeling over that putt there on that final hole.  RINKO MITSUNAGA: I knew somebody had to make a birdie, either on the hole before, on the par-3, and I missed that opportunity, and I was very upset.  So then that one, I just deleted all my thoughts and stayed focused and committed to my putt, and I made it, and I was really overjoyed.  I couldn't even smile.   Q.  You were smiling, trust me.  RINKO MITSUNAGA: Was I smiling?  I don't know.   Q.  About how far was that putt do you think?  RINKO MITSUNAGA: I think it was about seven feet.   MIKA LIU: Not short.   Q.  How are you guys feeling?  You've got to be exhausted after a long day, an intense day.  MIKA LIU: We can't be exhausted until after tomorrow.  We're still young, so...   Q.  What has this whole week been like for you guys?  I think you've kind of flown under the radar, but now you're getting here and you're a force to be reckoned with.  MIKA LIU: It's different, and team play is not something that we're used to, especially for a USGA high-level event.  We're having a lot of fun, getting to know the course, and it's great.   RINKO MITSUNAGA: And playing together.   Q.  What is it like playing together as a team?  As you said, it's very different from individual play.  RINKO MITSUNAGA: It's good because we're in sync.  We're definitely in sin, and we can count on each other.  I feel that.  We're focused on our shot, but there's someone backing us up.   MIKA LIU: We kind of got into like a routine, so it's getting easier and easier to play together.   Q.  I know you guys are together at IMG Academy.  Did you practice at all for this before you came out or how did you handle the prep?  MIKA LIU: She's always gone for tournaments, so I never see her, so the answer is no.  We didn't -- we haven't played together for a few months maybe, so it's kind of out of the blue.   Q.  What do you think your success is this week?  MIKA LIU: The success?   Q.  Yeah, where does that come from?  MIKA LIU: Past experience.  I think one big factor is that we're very comfortable with each other.  We can just rely on each other, and we don't have to say anything, we can just do the things that we have to do.  For me that was a big success.   Q.  What about you?  RINKO MITSUNAGA: I think I'm pretty much the same.   Q.  Looking back a little earlier in your match, if I'm remembering correctly, you guys were down in your match and had to fight back?  MIKA LIU: For a long time, 17 maybe?  17 we were 1-down, and then she made the birdie putt and we came back up to all square.   Q.  Tell me about that, playing 17, how you ended up with that birdie and how long it was.  MIKA LIU: Five feet, six feet, seven feet, ten feet?   RINKO MITSUNAGA: I think it was more closer to 10 feet, a little less than 10 feet, and then that hole, too, on the tee box, I kind of knew that was a birdie hole, too, because of how the hole is, and then I was really happy my first shot, and ended up close to the pin because I drew from the last time I played the hole and I ended up short, so I used past experience, and I got it close, and I gave myself an opportunity, and then I grabbed it when I could.   Q.  So tomorrow you guys are going to play Alyaa and Ellen.  Do you know them at all?  BOTH PLAYERS: No.   RINKO MITSUNAGA: They beat the first team; is that correct?   Q.  They did.  RINKO MITSUNAGA: Okay, well we can beat them, so we'll be fine.   Q.  And today you played Muni and Angel, who I'm sure you know from other events.  MIKA LIU: Oh, yeah, they're really good.   Q.  Is there any difference going from a match where you know them to a match where you don't?  MIKA LIU: No, we're not going to change.   RINKO MITSUNAGA: We're not going to take it differently at all.   MIKA LIU: We're just trying to play well out here, which is very difficult on this golf course.   Q.  What are your thoughts about this golf course?  Have you ever played anything like it?  RINKO MITSUNAGA: No, this is -- the first time this year I've played a links course like this next to the ocean.  I really had to adjust to the wind during the practice round.  My first practice round it was crazy wind, but now the wind has kind of toned down, and I got used to that and learned a few new shots, so it's great to play it.   MIKA LIU: If you're ever having a bad day and you're out there, you can't be upset.  I'll just leave it at that.  It's a wonderful place to be at.   Q.  Those views are incredible.  MIKA LIU: Uh-huh.  We're glad we got to come here.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT