NBA FINALS: MAVERICKS v HEAT
June 8, 2011
DeShawn Stevenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. LeBron with only nine points. How much did that surprise you? What went on? 
 DeSHAWN STEVENSON: It was very surprising. Him with his athletic ability to put pressure, I think he -- Dwyane was playing well, but it helped us out. At the same time, he's a player that can get it going at any time. 

 Q. How big was your defense on him? You guys seemed to frustrate him all night take him out of his comfort zone? 
 DeSHAWN STEVENSON: It was good, but at the same time he was in the attack mode. You know, LeBron can get to the basket when he has the shot going, it's pretty much tougher to get to the free-throw line. I think our defense as well, I don't think he was in the same attack mode as he usually is. 

 Q. Do you think it might have been an accumulative thing, the overall not getting the same looks as he used to and he just backed off because of that? 
 DeSHAWN STEVENSON: I think he's not getting the same looks. I think he's trying to find other guys. Dwyane Wade has it going, so I think he's deferring. At the same time, it's good for us. It's positive for us. 

 Q. How much easier is that to defend when he's playing that way? 
 DeSHAWN STEVENSON: It's easier, but at the same time Dwyane's out there going for 30 and Chris Bosh playing a solid game. So we have to stop one of them and I think we'll be happy to stop LeBron. 

 Q. When you are sizing him up, do you think it's frustration? What comes to mind? 
 DeSHAWN STEVENSON: I don't think it's frustrating. I think those guys are getting to know each other. At the same time, they are playing great basketball. I think they know the spots. (Indiscernible).

 Q. Can you talk about the resilience of your team. It seems whenever you guys are down and appear to be out, that's when you roll off a big run? 
 DeSHAWN STEVENSON: I think we have a great veteran team. We play together, believe in each other, and we stick with it. Leave our guys out there that are closers. Obviously Dirk, Jason Terry when he has it going, and J-Kidd, Hall-of-Fame point guard. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT