NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: CAPITALS v RED WINGS
June 9, 1998
Esa Tikkanen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ESA TIKKENAN:  We get better in overtime.  First period we -- I think first period I think guys were a little nervous, first time in the Stanley Cup Final.  But, after second period, we came over and we have a good chance to tie the game.  Right now it is only one first game, and, you know, if we start looking to point fingers at anybody it is about time -- it is right now.  It is Game 1 and we are looking forward to Game 2.  We had good things happen in the last 40 minutes; let's get positive things and bring those in the Game 2.


Q.  What did you learn from this game that you are going to need to do against them?

ESA TIKKENAN:  First of all, we have to shoot the puck more often.  13 shots in the game, you don't win the game.  This is Playoff right now, we have to understand when we have a chance we have to shoot the puck.  That is bottom line.  Can't win that game with 13 shots.


Q.  Did a good job shutting down their star forwards. Yet they still were able to win.  Is that what makes them tough?

ESA TIKKENAN:  Yeah, great four lines, they have it and Scotty Bowman is greatest coach in the League right now. He is changing and mixing lines.  He had Yzerman playing center once in a while, Holmstrom played a great game today today.  He basically -- they beat us today, but we have good things going on in 40 minutes and we are looking forward to going to Game 2.  We don't have to put our head down.  They are Stanley Cup champions and we have to play our game next game.


Q.  Thoughts first 20 minutes, do you feel you guys came out flat and if so what do you try--

ESA TIKKENAN:  First ten minutes was good for us and we had a couple of chances there early,.  I think we were a sleep there, two goals scored, Kocur, a guy who I played with, got a big goal for them and basically 2-nothing it is hard coming back in the Playoffs, especially Stanley Cup Finals and they are definitely the champions right now.  We had good things going for 40 minutes and we are looking forward.


Q.  It is a little tough with them because of the way they play defense?

ESA TIKKENAN:  They have three guys all the time low and checking, coming in the back, so, we have to get a lead and let them open the game.  But right now they played great game and it was great first game, both teams.  They take over in the first period and after that, second period we start to take over.  So it was excellent hockey game.  Anything can happen.  It is good things right now. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT