CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: ALABAMA VS OKLAHOMA
December 27, 2018
Jerry Jeudy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What's your experience been like in Miami?  
JERRY JEUDY: So far it's been good, preparing for this game.   
 Q.  When you look at an Oklahoma team that everybody has kind of been talking negative about their defense and how many points they give up, do you feel like that's almost overlooked?  Is that something you guys are looking at as a potential threat is their defense considering a lot of folks haven't given them a lot of credit?  
JERRY JEUDY: No, their last two games they had a good defensive game, but we're not focused on like what they're doing.  We're focused on how we execute our plays and do the best we can do to beat them.   
 Q.  Tua has been talking about his ankle and how it's been getting better.  Have you seen him pretty much do everything that he can do in practice?  How has he been in practice so far?  
JERRY JEUDY: Yeah, I see him make some reps in practice.  I see him doing every drill that quarterbacks do, and yeah, I feel like he's 100 percent.   
 Q.  When you look at this atmosphere, what it's going to be like playing in a pro stadium, you guys are used to it doing it last year, but what have you seen so far?  Have you gotten a chance to walk through here or be in this atmosphere yet or be in this environment?  
JERRY JEUDY: No, we didn't walk through the stadium yet.  I think we'll do that, but I know it'll be a very exciting game.   
 Q.  Home game for you, isn't it?  
JERRY JEUDY: Yeah.   
 Q.  Deerfield, right?  
JERRY JEUDY: Deerfield.   
 Q.  Have you had a chance to catch up with some families and stuff?  
JERRY JEUDY: Yeah, yeah.   
 Q.  You've been in the College Football Playoff; how has preparation been this week?  
JERRY JEUDY: We've had a lot of focus this week.  We're playing a great team in Oklahoma, who have an explosive offense and a good defense.   
 Q.  The Georgia game was the first time you guys have really been tested the entire season.  Do you think that game was good for you guys to get battle tested?  
JERRY JEUDY: Yeah, yeah, I think it was good.  That was a good game for us, just to understand our real team that won't give up and will play all four quarters.   
 Q.  Give us an idea of your relationship with these quarterbacks.  Both guys are obviously very special.  Jalen has won a ton of games, came up big in the Georgia game; Tua was runner up for the Heisman Trophy.  What's the comfort of the wide receivers with both quarterbacks?  
JERRY JEUDY: We're very comfortable with both our quarterbacks.  Both of them know how to make plays.  Both of them are great leaders, and both of them know how to win games, so we've got a very good comfort level.   
 Q.  Talk about your relationship with Mike Locksley and compare last year to now?  
JERRY JEUDY: Having had him as a receiver coach last year, really getting to know him, see how he really is, that really helped me understand that he understands me.   
 Q.  What qualities does he have as a person that helps you guys connect with him and trust him?  
JERRY JEUDY: Just the way he knows how to talk to you.  Like he's a very funny guy, so somebody that can make you laugh and stuff.  That's a good person to be around.  He's always in a good mood and knows how to bring you up.   
 Q.  Any funny things he's done that you can think of?  
JERRY JEUDY: You know, he'll just crack some jokes with you and stuff, probably like crack -- we'll be going back and forth, stuff like that.   
 Q.  And they were talking about the burger nights at his house.  What are those?  
JERRY JEUDY: Yeah, every Thursday we go to his house and have burgers.  He makes like the best burgers.   
 Q.  Anything about them?  Why are they good?  
JERRY JEUDY: He got this special ingredient he use to make them like spicy.   
 Q.  Was it just receivers last year and now it's anyone?  
JERRY JEUDY: It's for everyone to come, yeah.  It's for everyone.   
 Q.  Did it start out as a position group thing?  
JERRY JEUDY: No, it started out like offensive leader thing.  He just brought it up in the meeting room, burger night Thursday, and whoever showed up showed up.   
 Q.  Last year, too?  
JERRY JEUDY: No, it just started this year.   
 Q.  He mentioned one of the things he's learned from Coach Saban is consistency and the team and doing things the same way every day.  Are there things that surprised you when you came in from high school in terms of consistency and discipline and doing things the same way every week?  
JERRY JEUDY: Yeah, yeah.  That definitely surprised me.  High school was like -- I felt like -- college practice is a game.  High school practice is practice.  Going to college practice, you've really got to sit down and think, okay, I've got to get my mind right and focus on what I gotta do to get better.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT