CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: ALABAMA VS OKLAHOMA
December 26, 2018
Jerry Jeudy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Josh Jacobs, can you talk about what he's brought to this offense and what he's meant to this football team?
JERRY JEUDY: In my opinion, I think Josh Jacobs is the best part of the team.  He can do everything, kick return, punt return, quarterback, running back, receiver.  He's just an overall athlete.
Q. Jerry, how have you seen Mike grow as an offensive coordinator in his first year, and where have you seen his development and play calling, that kind of thing, Coach Locksley?  Where have you seen him grow?  Have you kind of felt him develop in that role?
JERRY JEUDY: I feel like Coach Locksley did a great job play calling, you see he's putting up 50-some point a game.  I think he did a tremendous job.
Q. You've been here two years; how has your connection to him kind of grown personally?  It seems like there's a lot of receivers that worked with him last year that have really grown close to him and his impact on them?
JERRY JEUDY: It grew a lot.  I got tremendous respect for Coach Locksley, just him as a great coach and as a great person.  Coach Locksley is one person I can go up to and talk to any time when there's a situation.
Q. How has he become that father figure because like you said, it seems like he's taken on really all the offense now but especially all the receivers he worked with last year as kind of a father-son kind of relationship.
JERRY JEUDY: Yeah, Coach Locksley just understands situations and just understand like he's been through what we've been through, so he really understands us.
Q. This Oklahoma offense has taken so much criticism for the way they play.  What have you seen and what are your thoughts on this Oklahoma defense?
JERRY JEUDY: They're a good defense.  To me it's not what their defense does, it's how we come and play our best game, execute our plays to win the game.
Q. What about their secondary, what stands out to you about those guys?
JERRY JEUDY: Back in the secondary, they've got good speed, so they're really fast guys, really talented.
Q. What are your thoughts on this quarterback match-up, Tua and Kyler, just your thoughts on those two guys?
JERRY JEUDY: They're two great quarterbacks, so two great quarterbacks that know how to win games, so it's going to be a very fun match-up watching these two guys play.
Q. Talk a little bit about Tua and how he handles adversity.  I know there hasn't been a lot, but talk about how he handles it when adversity does hit?
JERRY JEUDY: He handles it well.  He'll never be down.  He always stays level-headed, and just he knows how to handle situations like that.
Q. What about his arm, the way he throws the football, just your thoughts on how he can deliver?
JERRY JEUDY: He's just different really.  When he just releases that ball, it just comes out of his hands so pretty, so it's great having him as my quarterback.
Q. Marquise Brown, Oklahoma's top wide receiver, we don't know his status.  How tough is it when you want to be at your best in the biggest game and you're dealing with an injury, how tough would you take something like that?
JERRY JEUDY: It would be hard knowing that you want to play in a big game but you hurt, so I know he's really down right now, but we'll see what happens when it comes to game day.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT