NASCAR GANDER RV & OUTDOORS TRUCK SERIES: NEXTERA ENERGY 250
February 14, 2020
Jordan Anderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Grant Enfinger may be the winner but Jordan Anderson is the story tonight. Tell me about that final corner, a hundredth of a second.   
JORDAN ANDERSON: Man, there's not too many opportunities ‑‑ I'm getting to see the replay here for the first time ‑‑ that you get to go for your win. Grant, what are you doing door slamming me, man? I'm almost speechless for words. I came here 2015 and emptied my bank account to try to come down here and run, and to be in a position to even go for a win at Daytona, man, I'm a kid that just wanted to go racing from South Carolina.   
Wally Rogers and all my guys, John Bommarito and everybody at the Bommarito Automotive Group, we've got K‑Seal, a new sponsor, first time with us. Capital City Towing, so many people, Randy Knight, that believe in us. You know me, man, I'm usually not speechless, but God is good.   
When you look at our race team and the opportunities that we've had, and it's just because people have come in and believed in what we're doing and what we're trying to do and God has put the right people in our path, and all you guys that follow me, man, on Facebook and Twitter, all you guys in America, it's truck night in America that keep me going, man. The journey isn't easy but it's worth it. Embrace the journey.   
I thought I set him up good. We tried to follow Ross to push him and I know he got loose, and I got on Grant's bumper there coming off of 4 and got a good run. I'm like, man, this is like NASCAR Thunder 2003 all over again. I'm like, I can do this, and I pushed him out of the way. I'm like, I thought we had it, but this is‑‑ to try to put into words what this means for our team, I had to move some money around this winter just to get through to buy this truck, and we knew that we needed to bring the best truck we could, and this sport isn't easy and I love NASCAR, I love this sport. This is what NASCAR is about, man, and to do this for every single one of my guys and everybody that's supported us from the biggest sponsor to the smallest sponsor, I know I'm talking more than I should, FS1, Mark Smith, I'm sorry, but man, I love you guys. This is (screams) ‑‑ Daytona, we almost won!   
   
 FastScripts  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT