WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 5, 2013
David Lynn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  DOUG MILNE:   David, it was an exciting finish.   Came up a little bit short.   If you want to give us your initial reactions and then we'll take some questions.
DAVID LYNN:   Yeah, it was a tough day out there.   It's been a tough week.   I haven't been playing good at all all week.   I've just been battling away.   I think the way the course has played this week, it's sort of made everybody have to battle a bit. 
The wind has been tough, so scrambling has been key this week, and I've scrambled well.   I chipped in three times, and yeah, disappointed to end the playoff so quickly.   I've not been particularly driving it well, so took that tee shot down in the playoff and obviously found a bit of a crooked spot and then didn't play a great bunker shot either.

Q.   That was a nice break to get it out of the hazard?
DAVID LYNN:   Yeah, I stood on some rocks there.   I was a bit worried that I could slip and break my leg or something.   I said to my caddie if he hits a good shot up here I'm going to have to save it, otherwise I would have just played it out.   But I hit quite a good shot, I just didn't turn enough.

Q.   What do you take out of this week whether it's the weather, the course, your game? 
DAVID LYNN:   Well, I know I'm pretty good in tough conditions, and I am a bit of a grinder.   You know a runner‑up finish, it's a good finish.   It jumps me up in the order of merit on the FedEx.   So I was going to go back after next week anyway and I wasn't going to come back until the PGA which are still my plans. 
So, yeah, you take heart, don't you, from losing the playoffs?   It's all confidence building, so it puts me in good standing for the rest of the year.

Q.   What did you know, if anything, about Derek Ernst prior to this week? 
DAVID LYNN:   I've never heard of him.   He's a nice player.   He said he was 180th on the FedExCup list when we were chatting on the way around.   He played super.   I mean, he could have won it quite easily in regular play.   He missed a few short putts, and he played‑‑ in regular play, he played the finish really solid, and then he hit two really solid shots in the playoff.   So every credit to him, well done.

Q.   Did you say you're not coming back until the PGA? 
DAVID LYNN:   Yeah.

Q.   So you're not playing the U.S. Open? 
DAVID LYNN:   Well, this is the problem now.   I wasn't in the U.S. Open, so I've made other plans now.   I've actually booked a holiday.   So as it stands I'm going on holiday.

Q.   You can't get that reimbursed? 
DAVID LYNN:   No, I need a holiday now, to be honest.   So I'm going to do that.

Q.   On your bunker shot from the greenside bunker in the playoff, did you talk about that?   I didn't hear what you said about it. 
DAVID LYNN:   Yeah, I just didn't hit a great shot.   The sand was getting quite wet.   It's just one of those things.

Q.   The back nine with the weather getting more and more severe, was it more of a task just trying to maintain par and not try to find another shot out there to put in your back pocket? 
DAVID LYNN:   There are a couple of holes out there where you know you're going to have a good chance, like the short par‑4 and then the par‑5 after on the back nine.   So you know you're going to give yourself a couple of chances there easily enough.   All the other holes, it is a grind, yeah.   With the wind blowing the way it was, getting the ball in play is key‑‑ well, it's always key, but this week, yeah.   It's tough battling the elements.   I mean that showed in the score this week.   The winning score is 8‑under. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT