WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 4, 2013
David Lynn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Can you just talk about your round today and how the conditions were?   
DAVID LYNN:   The conditions were tough again, that breeze.   I didn't get off to the best of starts.   I made a weak bogey down 1, and I actually had the shot in from 20 yards and just hit a terrible shot.   Didn't start off the best, but I feel like I'm just grinding out which is what I've been doing all week, really.   Yeah, just hanging on and making birdies when I could and made a few good saves.   
I had a great chip at 17.   I hit pin‑high right on the deck and a tricky little chip, played it dead right.   And then hit it in the last, hit a 6‑iron in there to, I don't know, 15 feet, and drained that for a three which sort of just turns you around.   Two birdies to finish there, and I think par was a good score for today, so I'm still under par.  
   
 Q.   With the weather coming in (Indiscernible).   
DAVID LYNN:   Yeah, it's all about grinding this week.   I'm a bit under the weather myself as well.   So I didn't really have an advantage to teeing up today.   So it's all a bit of an effort, but it's the same for everyone.   
It's a good golf course.   You don't need an awful lot of wind to make it really tricky.   Obviously, with the greens putting the way they are that was an out, but they are what they are and they're the same for everyone.  
   
 Q.   Does the change in tee times tomorrow, I know it's the same for everyone, but does that affect the players' routines in any way going into a final round?   
DAVID LYNN:   Not really.   Once you get here and you go into your routine of preparing for the round and stuff, it just means if you're out first, you go really early tomorrow.   It would have been nice to have a little bit of a lie in tonight.   But obviously, we've got to get it done before the real bad stuff comes in.  
   
 Q.   Under the weather how?   
DAVID LYNN:   What's that?   
   
 Q.   How are you under the weather?   
DAVID LYNN:   I've got a bit of a chest infection, sore throat, cough.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT