MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 14, 2013
David Lynn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   (Inaudible.)
DAVID LYNN:   I need to have more patience.   I was so disappointed with that round on Saturday, but that was just a couple of bad shots and then you're signing for a score like that around here. 
Today it was playing as easy as it can and it's nice that I could put in a solid performance.   And, yeah, it is my first Masters, so I'm learning from it and I'll be back to challenge the course again.

Q.   Do you feel like it suits your game and the more you play it the better it will be?
DAVID LYNN:   You certainly learn a lot.   I do tend to suit some courses.   I'm not a prolific birdie maker, so I guess it is a sort of course that could suit me if I get used to it.   But just every round you play you can learn new things and it was good getting some rounds under my belt.

Q.   (No microphone.)
DAVID LYNN:   I think it's Sawgrass week.   So I don't know, I'll just have to see. 

Q.   Tough decision. 
DAVID LYNN:   Yeah. 

Q.   Was it everything you expected?
DAVID LYNN:   Yeah.   And more.   It was just great.   It's special. 

Q.   The crowds are fantastic. 
DAVID LYNN:   Yeah.   When you're playing it, it's hard to take it in because you're so zoned in on what you're doing, it's hard to sort of smell the roses, if you like.   I remember looking at Amen Corner and thinking, this is awesome. 

Q.   Did the hair on the back of your neck stand up?   That kind of thing?
DAVID LYNN:   Yeah, it's getting there.   Yeah.   It's a bit loud. 

Q.   Is it because of a sense of whose been there before you?
DAVID LYNN:   Well, it's just the way people speak about the place.   Yeah, there's a lot of tradition here and there's a lot of history that's come by and I'm part of it now in the 77th Masters, so it's great. 

Q.   Are you heading off tonight or are you going to stay and watch a bit?
DAVID LYNN:   I'll go back to the house and I'll watch it on TV. 

Q.   You're in the PLAYERS, aren't you?
DAVID LYNN:   Yeah, I'm in.   And then I'm off to, I got to go to Hilton Head tomorrow.   So no rest for the wicked.









END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT