MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 12, 2013
David Lynn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Was it a steady or a frustrating round?
DAVID LYNN:   Well, the way the course is playing with the wind like it is, I haven't practiced with this wind, and it's a case of just par is a good score and trying to grind out pars, which is pretty much what I did all day, making a couple of bogeys, a couple of daft bogeys, as well, on the front nine.   Hit a good shot into the par‑3 and then went for the flag at 7, which I never should have done, and ended up plugged in the bunker.   I did well to make 5.   So it was just grinding out the pars.   I actually had quite a few chances, as well, on the back nine, and so too finally finish with a birdie hit a fantastic shot into the last to about six feet.

Q.   So frustrating?
DAVID LYNN:   No, no. 

Q.   Was it tough to be patient, to finally get that birdie on 18?
DAVID LYNN:   It's not frustrating, it's‑‑ well, no, it's not frustrating, it's a grind out there. 

Q.   After you make the back‑to‑back bogeys, did you change your approach at all and try to be less aggressive, and like you said, par is a good score, just try to make sure you got pars and not let the round get away from you?
DAVID LYNN:   Yeah, I learnt a big lesson from going for the flag at 7 because all day long you just go down the left and take your 20‑foot putt up the hill.   I said to my caddie, lesson learned there, and I managed to get out with a 5.   Let's try and play as smart as I can from now on.   That's what I tried to do.

Q.   So boring from there on out was good?
DAVID LYNN:   Well, as we can see by the numbers on the scoreboard, nobody is running away with it, so yeah, boring is good.

Q.   How big to get the birdie on 18 just to get a little bit of momentum going into tomorrow's round now?
DAVID LYNN:   Yeah, it's nice to salvage one back there at the last, given that I've been patient pretty much all day and I've just ground away.   Yeah, they're hard to come by today, or they are for me.   Yeah, it's great to get one at the last.

Q.   How do you see your game?
DAVID LYNN:   Yeah, game is okay.   I'm pretty pleased with it.   I've been hitting some nice shots.   Yeah, putting stroke feels good, as well.   I've had some good nice par saves, which is what you've got to do.

Q.   You said you had some good birdie opportunities on the back.   What were some of the better ones? 
DAVID LYNN:   Yeah, 10, I had about a 12‑footer.   I had eight foot at 11, 10‑footer at 12, 20 feet at 13.   15 I'm 12 feet, but it's a sneaky one down the hill.   16, I had it in there 12 feet again.   Yeah, so there was a few chances there. 

Q.   If you had gotten it rolling on the back it really could have been a special back nine?
DAVID LYNN:   Yeah, obviously I think I deserved one at the last. 

Q.   What about your thoughts on the weekend. 
DAVID LYNN:   Well, just carry on doing what I'm doing, turn up, see how the golf course is playing tomorrow.   Like I say, this is a different course to what I've played since I've been here, since Monday.   So I look forward to it as a challenge, as well.   If it firms up and starts playing fast, then it's going to be the same for everyone and it's going to be interesting to see how the course plays. 

Q.   What irons did you hit into the bunker on 7?
DAVID LYNN:   On 7 I hit wedge. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT