PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 13, 2013
David Lynn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Portugal Masters Champion, just run us through what it means to you?
DAVID LYNN:   Yeah, icing on the cake really, since, well, I've been playing pretty solid for quite a few years.   I've come close quite a lot of times.   I think eight times second, obviously the US PGA last year catapulted me up to sort of a different level in terms of World Rankings and stuff, and it's been nice to come out this year, obviously play a blend of PGA TOUR and European Tour, and do well over in America which was a different environment to apply my trade, [] over golf, and sort of feeling good towards the end of the year.   And it was before this week for a few weeks‑‑ if I could sort of win a tournament in Europe because it would give me so many options and take pressure off next year trying to play both tours, it would just make my life so much easier.   So, you know, to do it, it's obviously huge and it's huge because it's been nine years since I've done it, as well.   So there's so many things flying through my head at the moment.   One of the biggest things is obviously like I said, taking pressure off next year to sort of enable me to play where I want to, which is play both. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
DAVID LYNN:   Yeah, I suppose it is.   And I was halfheartedly watching the TV.   I didn't want to wish bad on any player but I feel like I've paid my dues to be sat here and what was going to be was going to be sort of thing.   I had a little bit of a sneaking suspicion that it was going to be my day today when I started making some of the putts ... sort of thought if I could get ‑‑ playoff for sure, and it managed to do it in the end.

Q.   Inaudible.
DAVID LYNN:   Yeah, greens were fantastic first thing.   A lot of weeks, we have a lot of traffic going through them, a lot of players, a lot of caddies.   So the greens are always going to putt a little bit different towards the end of the day.   You just have to take your lines out and just hope that it stays true and mine did today.

Q.   Inaudible.
DAVID LYNN:   Yeah, to play the PGA TOUR events and the way my schedule was looking, I wasn't in any of these events coming up.   I was going to play the World Cup in Australia and this obviously opens up doors again where ‑‑ I'm going to have to sit down and look.   Played so many events this year already and next Sunday I'm supposed to be ‑‑ inaudible.
I'm certainly going into those events, feeling good about where things are with my golf.   Both tours I can play on next year, exempt in Europe.   It's a great place and I couldn't have planned it better for the end of the year. 

Q.   Inaudible.
DAVID LYNN:   Party is already planned on Saturday for about 80 people and I'm leaving for the airport Sunday ‑‑ yeah, I'm going to have to do my birthday with celebrations during the week.   But no, it will be a nice Saturday next week.
Obviously I want to go to Malaysia, the PGA TOUR event, it will count towards next year.   So it's ticking another one off, that and the HSBC; that will tick two off for next year in America and that certainly makes my season a lot easier to plan. 

Q.   Inaudible‑‑
DAVID LYNN:   Paul spoke to me, I think at Sawgrass this year.   He basically said, well done, keep it going, you're very much on my radar.   And that was nice of him to come and say that.   I played with him at the Dunhill and he said some really nice things when we were going around just about my game in general.   It's nice to hear it from someone like Paul.
Obviously, yeah, this is a great start for The Ryder Cup, but The Ryder Cup is a million miles away, in my eyes, at the moment.   I'm just going to try to concentrate on playing golf and let it take care of itself.   The closer it gets to the finishing line, the more aware I'm going to become of it.

Q.   Is that something ‑‑ inaudible.
DAVID LYNN:   Yeah, it's something I would like to do.   I think my thoughts are I would love to be playing in a Ryder Cup and have my golf game with me, which a lot of players say that   it's a terrible environment to be if you're not feeling good about your game.   Obviously if you can build yourself towards that   ‑‑ if you qualify for a Ryder Cup, you're obviously playing well.   We'll cross that bridge when we come to it.

Q.   Inaudible.
DAVID LYNN:   No, I think that you see the fact that I come here every year.   I enjoy coming.   There's something about this time of year and coming to Portugal.   I see a lot of people I know, as well, around the golf course.   I really enjoy Vilamoura, it's a lovely place to go and eat in the evening, a relaxed atmosphere.   Not a lot of places carry that off for some reason, whether it's what the weather is.   It's such a nice vibe here all the time; I think everybody would agree with that.

Q.   Inaudible.
DAVID LYNN:   Yeah, I always get shouts here.   There's people from my golf club and where I live.   So it's nice to see friendly faces who you know who pull for you.   To win in front of people who you know, as well, it's special, and I daresay people who I haven't seen who have been here, as well.   It's nice to have people certainly cheering for you. 

Q.   Inaudible.
DAVID LYNN:   It will be a double‑whammy with my birthday I guess but I was looking forward to having a week off next week and I do like my red wine when I'm off.   A nice bottle of Sexy Red, as well.   It's going to be a nice week at home, and yeah, I can take in what I've achieved this week, and look forward to going to Malaysia.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT