COMMERCIALBANK QATAR MASTERS PRESENTED BY DOLPHIN ENERGY
February 4, 2012
David Lynn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   If you could reflect on three days, if you would, because you're in a lovely position on that board?  
DAVID LYNN:   Yeah, three days, two rounds.   Just seemed like the first round was a really tough day for us.   It was more or less a sand storm out there.   It was getting where, in your mouth, your nose, in your ears.   It's just really tough, so you just try to go out and nab pars really and managed to shoot 1‑under the first day, which I felt was really good.  
And then yesterday the wind sort of picked up after five holes, and again, I started well.   I was just hanging on really, played another four and a half holes in really strong wind before they blew the siren, and then went out and finished again this morning, which it was still a nice little breeze there, just to make you think about your shots.   And nice to finish pretty solid.   All in all it was three birdies, 15 pars.  
   
 Q.   When you made those two birdies before the suspension yesterday, I know that was a little bit calmer, but was it right to come off when you did?  
DAVID LYNN:   Yeah.   It was getting to the point ‑‑ I had 105 yards, I hit 9‑iron on the 10th and it was more or less coming back to me.   And then when I went up there and I'm sort of looking at my next shot, I'm looking over at the referee and he sort of put his arms up.   So I walked over to him, and I said, how close are we?   
He says, yeah, I think we're pretty close.   He said, what do you think?   I said, well, it's getting a bit silly now.   So it was the right point really.  
   
 Q.   Still testing today, however, isn't it?   The wind seems to be pretty stiff in places?  
DAVID LYNN:   Yeah.   Again, it wasn't quite as strong earlier, and then all of a sudden you just feel it have a little kick to it, so whatever it stays like this or whether it continues to pick up a little bit, who knows.   But yeah, certainly for me there's enough there to test you coming down the stretch.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
DAVID LYNN:   First round, yeah.   Because I hear a lot of guys sort of got quite a few holes in with not a whole lot of wind, and I go out the first round and like I say, we were basically in a sand storm, but yesterday I managed to get five holes in where it was reasonable, and playing the tougher nine, the front nine, so nice to capitalize on that.  
   
 Q.   Because the other side of that coin is when you've played well in the really rubbish weather, you must feel really proud of yourself?  
DAVID LYNN:   Yeah.   To shoot 1‑under Thursday I thought was a really good score given the conditions.  
   
 Q.   And a place you've always liked to play?   It's always a test?  
DAVID LYNN:   I always find the greens very difficult there, and turns out this year they're no different.   You can read the colors here from the map very easily, and it is quite strong grass.   So yeah, I always enjoy coming here, and it's always windy.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT