PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 16, 2011
David Lynn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DAVID LYNN: Yeah, I'd definitely taken it at the start of the day because it was can get quite windy out there. 
 Sitting here now, I'm a little bit disappointed because I had two of the easiest putts you could on have on the last two greens, both of them about eight-foot straight up the hill. Left one in the jaws on 17 short and just missed on the left side of the last. It was two great chances and you sort of sit here and you think, could have finished 20-under. 
 But the end of the day, you have to say to yourself, well, I did shoot 64, so you have to be happy with that.

 Q. The way you got it going on the back nine with a whole raft of birdies back-to-back --
 DAVID LYNN: Yeah, four on the bounce which got me going. So I had to -- I nearly 3-putted 16. I had about a 40-footer and I left it 6-foot short and to the right. And that obviously was a big momentum putt, which I made, and like I say, just disappointed about the last two holes and here we are 18-under.

 Q. Regardless of that disappointment, so it could have been a better score, but I guess when you finish, you wouldn't have thought you would still be in with a chance at this stage, would you? 
 DAVID LYNN: I didn't. With four holes to play I actually thought to myself, right, if I can birdie all four and get to 20-under, then that's half a sniff. Didn't do that. Made 18-under.
 And looking at the scores, yeah, I know it's only one behind at the moment but I just think there's too many people out there, whether they are 19, 18, 17, one or two are going to come through the pack. 

 Q. How testing is that wind, because it's the first time it's picked up to this kind of degree all week. 
 DAVID LYNN: It was testing but once you get a bit of momentum and start making some birdies, you almost -- you don't quite see it as much, because you just become really focussed on what you're doing. I actually think the last few holes, there are chances. The only big one is the tee shot on 14, you can't afford to miss that if you're going down the right side or else you'll hit it in the water. 
 Other than that, 15 is playing easy, get your tee shot -- a lot of lads can drive the green and you just chip-in from around the green.
 17 is playing slightly downbreeze, so you can get up there if you want.
 And 18, I only hit 54-degree sand wedge into 18. So it all sounds easy but you've still got to hit the shots.

 Q. Come what may you're in a nice position?
 DAVID LYNN: Yeah, like I said, if someone had given me 64 at the start of the day, I'd have snapped it up. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT