ABU DHABI HSBC GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 21, 2011
David Lynn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DAVID LYNN: Satisfying two days, having just come off three months off, playing very little golf, as well. 
 So, yeah, didn't even feel that rusty to be honest with you. The only thing that was playing up was my back, which I've been doing a few stretch exercises over the winter and came out and started playing again, and off she goes again. 
 So I got the physio boys taking care of that. Hopefully be all right tomorrow. 

 Q. Back is something that's plagued you for a long time, but I take it after all of the exercising and things, would you have thought that was settled?
 DAVID LYNN: It was last year actually that it first started, and obviously an age thing and combined with how many golf shots I've hit over my career, so to be expected. 
 So just try and look after it with a bit more stretching and a bit of physio.

 Q. You actually feel it over particular shots? 
 DAVID LYNN: Just long shots. It really just tightens up sometimes, but today it was better than it was the first round. 

 Q. Wintered well? Good break?
 DAVID LYNN: Yeah, wintered very well. Had a lovely break, and was quite difficult to get back on a plane after three months at home to bring yourself to come back out; but as we are here in the rain.

 Q. There's always the promise of warmth and sunshine out here?
 DAVID LYNN: Yeah, it's getting bizarre. We seem to have rain every year we come to the desert now. But obviously I'm in a tee shirt, so weather's a lot better than home but I actually enjoyed the snow when it came down at home.

 Q. Enjoyed it but you couldn't get out and play or hit any balls or anything?
 DAVID LYNN: No. I was actually building snow men.

 Q. I take it here, lovely start to that round, wasn't it, just flying with the birdies?
 DAVID LYNN: Yeah, I had a real awkward second shot into the first, as well. I was one foot in the bunker and one off the slope. Ball out of the bunker and hit a lovely shot to ten feet, knocked it in and away you go. 
 So that's always nice to sort of -- having just had a good 3-under the day before, which, a little bit of a surprise having had the time off. Then to come out and do that down the first sets you up for the day. I was glad I maintained it through the round.

 Q. I guess early season you're never entirely sure of consistency either; so to putt two back-to-back is terrific?
 DAVID LYNN: Yeah, fantastic position to be in. Getting up there early. Another bizarre thing was that I had managed to get a TaylorMade driver over the winter that I quite liked, and I turn up this week, as well, and I've got one of these white-headed R11s thrown in my hands. I only got it on Wednesday. Hit a few shots on the range with. It just stayed the bag and I have to say, the way I drove the ball in round one, it's just an amazing piece of kit. It really has put distance off the tee and it's pretty accurate at the moment.

 Q. Does that often happen, you find a new club and suddenly fall in love with it? 
 DAVID LYNN: It does every now and then but I have to say whatever is going on with the technology in these R11s, there's something in it, because all of the guy the talking between ourselves are like, I'm hitting it further; so am I. It's good stuff. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT