JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 27, 2010
David Lynn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Back-to-back good rounds.   
 DAVID LYNN: It's not happened a lot at all this year. Maybe a touch of surprise, really, but as I spoke yesterday, coming back to a course I've done well at before, been staying patient all year, hoping my fortunes are going to change.   
 Yeah, a couple of good rounds, so sets me up nicely for the weekend.  
  
  Q. And you've done it when the elements have been worse, as well. Three birdies on the way home?  
 DAVID LYNN: Yeah, could even have been four. I missed from about ten foot on 17. Waterproofs went on on 17 tee, it got a bit nasty for a minute but cleared up now, so it's fine.  
  
  Q. So didn't affect any of your shot-making at all?   
 DAVID LYNN: No, I'm not a favorite of the rain, so I was sort of glad I only had two holes to play. But I managed to hit some nice shots, actually.  
  
  Q. And the elements are pretty good around here; for two days, you couldn't ask for too much more?  
 DAVID LYNN: Yeah, perfect. Not a an awful lot of wind. Had the tee shirts on today. Everything is good so far.  
  
  Q. When is the last time you topped a leaderboard at the halfway stage?   
 DAVID LYNN: I think it was actually in South Africa, end of last year, which is part of the season, believe it or not.   
  
  Q. Probably feels like a long while ago?  
 DAVID LYNN: Feels like a lot longer than that, yeah.   
  
  Q. You're accustomed to the position; you don't fret or become extra nervous about it, do you, because as a previous winner, and been there a couple of times?  
 DAVID LYNN: I think a lot of it depends on how you're playing. If I was coming into the tournament with a lot of confidence, then, you know, you'd be getting up there and you'd be maybe approaching it a bit differently than sort of when things haven't been going for you. You try and sort of work your way back up to getting some confidence.   
 So, yeah, I've been there before and maybe tomorrow I'm just going to go out and try to carry on playing the way I am.  
  
  Q. I assume you can be relaxed, because no great expectations?  
 DAVID LYNN: Yeah, just a case of trying to get some confidence going at the moment. First two days, I've done that and hopefully build on it at the weekend.  
  
  Q. And while the elements can change swiftly here, do you have any indication of what a winning score might be from this place?  
 DAVID LYNN: Conditions staying the way they are now, I can probably see maybe 15-under at the minute.   
  
  Q. Is this the most your patience has been tested?   
 DAVID LYNN: Undoubtedly, yeah.  
  
  Q. Because you're usually pretty consistent and well inside the top hundred one dread?  
 DAVID LYNN: Yeah, the last two years, it's been a different story if you're inside the ropes with us.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT