JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 26, 2010
David Lynn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. A round with five birdies and no bogeys what went well for you out there today?
 DAVID LYNN: I putted a lot better than what I have been all year, which obviously helps with confidence and rewards you when you get it somewhere around the flag. So I just holed a couple of nice putts today, which holed a few early, which sort of built some momentum, and when I needed the odd one for par, then I was making those, too. 

 Q. Conditions look ideal for scoring; is that the way it felt?
 DAVID LYNN: Yeah, first thing this morning, a little bit cold, played a fraction long to start with, and then no wind. So, yeah, it was perfect out there. Greens were good. Course is good. 

 Q. You've had some really good results over the years looking up your record, a second in 2005 and other Top 15s, is this a course you feel suits your game?
 DAVID LYNN: Yeah, I was thinking about that coming up. I remember finishing second and a few Top-10s. Yeah, it can only help you. You come to a place where you've done well before, and obviously I know how the course play, didn't have a practise round this week, just came up Wednesday, thought I would take it a bit easy this week and off to a good start.

 Q. Ten years you've been playing on Tour and not any issues with your card and this year 102 in The Race to Dubai, what's been the issue, your putting? 
 DAVID LYNN: Last year wasn't a great year, either and this year, I've come out and putting really poor. I'm not getting any results out of when I have a good week where I'm hitting it reasonable, just getting nothing out of the weeks at all. Very frustrating and you just hope that it comes back and you start to make your fair share. So hopefully that could be a turning point today. 

 Q. How good of a round was that? 
 DAVID LYNN: Yeah, obviously five birdies, no bogeys, to shoot 67, very satisfying round of golf. 

 Q. On a place you really seem to enjoy coming?
 DAVID LYNN: Yeah, just been saying that to the SKY boys that I've had a few good results in the past and hope to keep that sort of momentum going this week.

 Q. I remember several times chatting to you on the 18th green and it just seems to fit your eye somehow?
 DAVID LYNN: Yeah, must be one of those courses for me. Took it a bit easier this week, coming up on Wednesday, no practise round, because I just know the course so well. So it's all going according to plan so far.

 Q. Does it give the extra spring in the except when you come here knowing you've played well here before and knowing the Dutch Open afterwards the following week is your time of the year? 
 DAVID LYNN: Yeah, I've got a few coming up that I like. Yeah, it always helps if you're coming back to a place where you've played well. Certainly it doesn't hinder you in any way. 

 Q. What's the story this season so far? 
 DAVID LYNN: Very cold putter for me so far this year and sort of when I've had a few weeks where I have played half reasonable tee-to-green, just getting nothing out of the weeks. When you're struggling, I can't scramble because it just shows the importance of being able to putt. 

 Q. Which is frustrating? 
 DAVID LYNN: Very frustrating.

 Q. A lot of extra work and then digging yourself no a hole?
 DAVID LYNN: Well, you can do as much work as you want on the putting green if you don't start to make a few putts on the course, it's all to no avail. You just have to start making some putts on the course and keep it going from there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT