ABU DHABI GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 19, 2006
David Lynn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. A good start?
DAVID LYNN:  Yes conditions are tricky, it's a bit windy and there are some really good par fours out there which today I played really well on, the harder the hole the better I played on it, I birdied two of the hardest holes on the course and missed from four feet on another one, so I'm pretty pleased with a 69. One thing I am struggling a little bit this week with is I am finding it difficult on long putts. I think the nap is coming into play a little bit and you tend to get a bit tentative on a few of them, leaving yourself four or five feet on the second putt. But other than that it was pretty good. I am out first thing tomorrow as well so hopefully I can take advantage of that because there might not be so much wind.
Q. Thoughts on the season?
DAVID LYNN:  Well I went to South Africa before Christmas and I like South Africa and I liked it this year because they had two tournaments together whereas beforehand it was just one at a time. Obviously the scorpion incident happened on the first week but it didn't really stop me, I finished fourth, and I enjoyed my trip down there.
Q. For those of us who don't know the scorpion story, tell us?
DAVID LYNN:  Well I was asleep in bed and my girlfriend was sitting up in bed watching the television and she screamed which woke me up and I moved my hand up from my side and then I screamed.

My initial thought was, why are you sticking needles in my hand, because I was still half asleep. but then when we pulled the covers back we saw the scorpion sat there flailing its tail around. Then my girlfriend took a size six training shoe and battered it to death. Within half an hour, her leg was paralysed and couldn't feel it and my hand had gone numb. I didn't get much of the poison but it was still enough to numb my fingers and it was three hours before we could get to the hospital. No-one in the hotel could tell us if it was a bad scorpion and we only found out at the hospital when my girlfriend was in serious pain at that time. We got back to the hotel at 3.30am and then up for a 4.30am restart. But it didn't stop me. It was quite an experience. Not only did we not sleep much for the rest of the week, I don't think anyone else in the hotel did, either.
Q. Must have been frightening though?
DAVID LYNN:  It was all very surreal when it was happening. We were actually laughing in the ambulance when we were doing 100mph with all the sirens going, we were both laughing. It's a good pub story, though.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT