BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
August 27, 2004
David Lynn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
SCOTT CROCKETT:  David, thanks for coming in, 67-68.  This is getting to be a familiar feeling atop the leaderboard.  You must be very pleased to be there again.
DAVID LYNN:  Well, yeah, of course every time you go out and lead the tournament, it's very pleasing.  Especially coming off since I won the Dutch, I feel like there's a little bit more pressure this week, just in my own mind, really.  There are a lot of players coming up to me and, you know, actually giving congratulations, and my name is probably one everybody was looking for this week to come out and do that the first two rounds, I'm very pleased.
SCOTT CROCKETT:  Ironic, when you started with a bogey 5.   What happened there?
DAVID LYNN:  This morning I had 200 yards to the flag at 10 from a decent lie down the right semi and I hit a good shot and it just came up 15 yard short, which we put down really to the damp conditions this morning.
SCOTT CROCKETT:  That was your only mistake.  Then you had five birdies after that.
DAVID LYNN:  11, I hit it stiff there with a 7-iron.

13, that was a 15-footer.

The pa -5 18, 12-foot.  I was just short of the green in two.

The fourth was four feet there, wedge.

The par 5, just through the green in two and hit a little 3-wood out of the rough to two feet.
Q.  Were you glad of the break afterwards or would you have liked to have played on from the win?
DAVID LYNN:  After I won on the Challenge Tour, I played the week after and I found myself leading after two rounds, and I wondered how because it was all a bit of a blur, really.  To be honest with you, today feels a bit of the same.  I just said to my caddie when we came off, how we were 9-under.  He says, "You're playing well."  It's just sort of the way I feel, really.

I've actually pulled out of next week now because I do feel like I need a little bit more time off.  So probably the break did me good.
Q.  Why do you need more time off then if you've already had a break?
DAVID LYNN:  Because after you've just won, it's absolute chaos or the first week, or even the second week, because you don't see everybody straightaway.  When you do see everyone, you know the following week they are all obviously -- you're going over everything with them, as well.  It doesn't really clear your mind.  You don't have time to settle properly.
Q.  Can you put your finger on why you're playing so well right now?
DAVID LYNN:  I've been playing solid all year, to be honest.  I think I'm about seventh in stroke average.  So that shows pretty consistent scoring.  I've had, I don't know, about 11 Top 20s this year or something, seven in the Top-10.

I mean, for a few years now, I've been playing pretty consistently.  I just do my own thing, really.  Get on with my own game.  Started working with a psychologist a year and a half ago, John Olsap (ph) because I felt that was the key, really, with me.  I've never been big into working on the coaching, so I just worked on the technique.  I tried that avenue, really, and then, when it came to the crunch in Holland there was a few things which we worked on which were going over my mind which paid dividends.
Q.  Could you pick out one of these things that John Olsap (ph) gave you to do that worked out for you in Holland?
DAVID LYNN:  Not really, no.  The things were private, really, to me, and to John.  It's the way I think on a golf course and the way he interprets it really from his side, his professional opinion.  Basically I would change the thoughts.   That's the way it sort of works.
Q.  Perhaps you could tell us where you were feeling badly before.
DAVID LYNN:  I think everyone is guilty of thinking bad, really.   There are certain ways in which you can correct yourself.  Everybody knows from life, not everybody looks on the bright side of life all the time, and it's the same when you're on the golf course.
Q.  You said you've been consistent, and you have been consistent; did you ever feel you would then make that next step up to become a winner?
DAVID LYNN:  I always believed I could, yeah, and that's the one thing that keeps driving you on, really.  But to actually do it, until you've won, people don't realize how hard it is to do.

I had a phone call from Mark Roe after I won.  I've been good friends with Mark for a long time, and he said, "People will not appreciate what you've done, how hard it is to do it."  But to all of the players who haven't won yet, they will all believe they can win; that's why they are out here.
Q.  Were you inspired by some of the victories early on this season --
DAVID LYNN:  You have to get inspired, seeing people win who from the regular guys, but you've just got to get on with what you're doing and believe what you're doing is right, whatever avenue you decide to take and stick to it.
Q.  Just the confidence that comes with winning, sort of outweigh the extra pressure you said you felt?
DAVID LYNN:  Yeah, I think that's one of the reasons I'm probably at the top of the leaderboard this week.  Because like I said, I didn't particularly feel great about my game, but I'm there again and you can only put that down to confidence.
Q.  Has John given you a way of coping with the last two rounds?
DAVID LYNN:  Not particularly.  We don't really look on things like -- if I said we were actually, we've been discussing how things would change after I won, before I won, for several months before.  So, I mean, that's the sort of process we use, really.  It's not really something you can just say to somebody and that's it, then it works for the day.  There are certain things which work that way, but generally it's a long-term goal, really, to change the way you think and you focus.
SCOTT CROCKETT:  David, thanks again.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT