DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
March 9, 2003
Alastair Forsyth
David Lynn
Ian Woosnam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









I made the birdies but just didn't play solid enough. I had a couple of three putts after missing a couple of short ones which had been really good all week. I kept on making a bogey at the wrong time. One on the first hole and then got it back with a birdie then bogeyed again right away. Any momentum I had I kept on losing. Disappointing really as no-one ran away with it. I made the birdies to win the tournament but.. Pleased with the birdie on the last as it looked like the tournament was slipping away. I just didn't play solid enough. Wasn't quite there today. But delighted with the way I played and especially pleased with the birdie on the last.

IAN WOOSNAM

I went for it on the last two holes. I had nothing to lose. Hit a great drive on 17, tore every muscle in my back in coming just short of the green and two putted. Great drive on the last and great three wood and managed to get it up and down. A good week. Started off missing a short one on the first and then I was a bit dubious with the putter. Had a chance on 14 for a birdie but missed that. Overall played well. Hope to carry it on next week and then three weeks off before the Masters. I'm playing well. I did quite a bit of practice in the winter and think that has helped a little. I had a chance today but then missed that one on the first and it knocked me back a bit. Couldn't get going at all. Birdied eight for the third day in a row but didn't make the birdies on the par fives.


DAVID LYNN

Today was the best my game has felt this week and just kept hitting it so far from the flag on the front nine but making two putts. Just never seemed to get anything going. When I did hole one on seven and followed that with a birdie on eight I thought it might get things going but just dried up. I'm delighted overall. I felt good about my game and went out there, didn't back off and tried my best.


 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT