SEVE TROPHY BY GOLF+
October 4, 2013
Scott Jamieson
David Lynn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   David, that's a terrific victory and you're not feeling all that good. 
DAVID LYNN:   No, well, three of us have been struggling this week, a bit of a dizzy spell and chest and head cold, but you battle on and it was battle out there today playing the two Italians there.   We just stuck to our guns to the end. 
You just try to keep two balls in play.   Two is obviously better than one, and we did that a lot today, apart from‑‑ obviously I ended up leaving Scotty on the last two, and Francesco was doing a lot of the work early on on his own, but you know, we just stayed patient, they made the putts early doors and we just at times‑‑ like you say, all came good in the end. 

Q.   You played your part but please talk me through your pairing partner on those last two holes because they were clutch putts?
DAVID LYNN:   Oh, yeah, I hit in the trees right and made a total hash of and I've been driving it well as well and it was a bit of a surprise but obviously he made a great 7‑footer up the hill to get us back to square and then obviously to hit a shot in there‑‑ I thought I hit a nice tee shot, just run through the fairway, so I thought just put it on the green and at least get Scotty a little bit of freedom to go at it, which he did. 

Q.   Sounds like the team has had a positive frame of mind regardless of the score line; all the more positive presumably now?
DAVID LYNN:   Yeah, absolutely.   That's a great morale booster there.   So to get us‑‑ I think we are back on level terms now.   That was a huge point.   Obviously it's going to make dinner tonight taste a lot sweeter. 

Q.   Practical jokes on this team? 
DAVID LYNN:   There's been a couple this week.   I think super‑gluing the Continental Europe's practise balls together was pretty good. 

Q.   Talk me through that finish, pretty spectacular way to end it all?
SCOTT JAMIESON:   We got to the turn 2‑down and had not really done too much wrong, played some good golf that front half.   Then I think we parred all the way around until we were on the 14th tee and David said to me, he goes, we are coming into the holes where things can happen now.   A bit of water around the green on 14 and then we had the par5 and par 3 with a bit of water and the par5 at 17, and 18 is a hole you maybe expect to birdie or at least have a good look at birdie. 
So we stuck to our guns and David made a nice birdie on 14 that seemed to kick start us, so birdied 14, 15‑‑ 17, and 18 to turn it around. 

Q.   When you just 3‑putted as well prior to the last couple of holes‑‑
SCOTT JAMIESON:   Yeah, hit a lovely shot into 16.   But I wouldn't really count that as a 3‑putt from myself to be honest because I was trying to hard to make the first one.   David, he was about 2 1/2 feet for his par.   I was just trying to hold the first one to try to claw another one back. 

Q.   That last one in particular, nerves over that? 
SCOTT JAMIESON:   The one on 17 was a big one I thought.   If I could hold that, then certainly perks you up off the back of 16, having an opportunity to square the game, not taking it, so was quite happy to get that one in on 17 to square it up. 

Q.   What is the atmosphere in the team room, knowing you've been lost out on the first day but you're now right back in it?
SCOTT JAMIESON:   Yesterday obviously wasn't a good day for us but we had only played for five points out of the 28 that are available.   In the grand scheme of things, that's hardly anything really.   Hopefully we can claw another one back today and keep fighting back. 

Q.   What were you thinking? 
SCOTT JAMIESON:   I think we thought, better start playing a bit better.   They had a great front nine.   They were I think 5‑ or 6‑under the front but we were a couple down.
DAVID LYNN:   We had both ball in play quite a lot today, and Francesco was on his own quite a few times on the front nine.   They made the putts, we didn't and in the end, well, we just stuck to what we were doing and in the end‑‑ I left Jamo on the last two, so he did the best there. 

Q.   Quite a bit of blue, you needed to get points; how big do you think that point is? 
SCOTT JAMIESON:   Yeah, hopefully it's massive.   Obviously every point is a big point.   Obviously it wasn't looking like we were going to be able to get one today, so to turn it into a red point was good. 

Q.   And of course eight points tomorrow, foursomes, is this a pairing that's going to stay together do you think? 
DAVID LYNN:   We both played quite nicely today.   Dovetailed.   Foursomes is a different kettle of fish, you want it in play at all times and we'll leave it to captain Sam to see what he thinks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT