SEVE TROPHY BY GOLF+
October 2, 2013
Paul Casey
Paul Lawrie
David Lynn
Sam Torrance
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  STEVE TODD:   We welcome the Great Britain and Ireland team to the media center.   Sam Torrance, David Lynn, Paul Lawrie and Paul Casey.   If you could just reflect on the week and your thoughts on the pairings.
SAM TORRANCE:   Fantastic to be here and an honour to be captain and I'm looking forward to, a good, young team that are desperate to get out and get some points.   The pairings were pretty easy.   They were all pretty compatible.   I could put anyone with anyone.   I tried to put people I thought were good friends, played practise rounds together, try to make them feel more comfortable out there and do the job that they do best.
DAVID LYNN:   Yeah, home International 1995 at Royal Portrush was the last time I played, so obviously totally different this week, really refreshing change and I'm already sort of sensing the way the teams work together and the matches are not going to be easy. 
STEVE TODD:   Thoughts on the pairings? 
DAVID LYNN:   Yeah, we have a lot of fun together, so a nice, relaxed pairing.   Obviously going up against Joost Luiten, who I played with last week for one round at the Dunhill, he was playing very nicely.   And Gregory Bourdy who has been playing very nice this year as well, obviously both in good form this year, so it's going to be a tough match.   They are all tough matches, and hopefully we can make as many birdies as possible. 
STEVE TODD:   If you can give us your thoughts? 
PAUL LAWRIE:   Yeah, but obviously, first of all, I'm loving Sam's man managing skills‑‑ that's twice he's called me young now.   Makes me feel a bit better. 
Yeah, obviously Medinah ‑‑ kind of forget that, what happened, obviously Ollie was a huge part of that week for everyone and we are up against him this week, so he is the enemy as it were, and so we are going out trying to take points off his team.   It's going to be great fun.   I've played in a few of these now and the matches are quite competitive but kind of lighthearted, too.   I'm looking forward to the week. 
STEVE TODD:   Your thoughts on thepairing? 
PAUL LAWRIE:   Well, obviously very experienced with Miguel.   He's even older than me which is incredible.   No, we are both looking forward to it.   We both played together and both played nicely, and tough game obviously, first match up against those two with huge experience in Ryder Cup and Seve Trophy.   I think Miguel is the only player that has played in every single one as someone said this morning, huge experience. 
Great match for us to kick it off and try and win a point. 
STEVE TODD:   And Paul, your thoughts on being back? 
PAUL CASEY:   Yeah, it's been a while, and I love any opportunity that I get to play team golf and represent my country.   I jump at the chance.   Just looking forward to it, trying to maintain our record, unbeaten.   Obviously it's what they are after; they want to take it away from us and we want to maintain it.   Obviously though it's very friendly, should be very ‑‑ inaudible ‑‑ as the week goes on. 
I think that's a tough pairing, the pair have obviously played stellar golf this year, winning at the BMW, and we obviously know what Francesco is capable of; his win last year against Tiger at Medinah we know he can handle any pressure.   I think they are a tough, tough team.   I'm looking forward to playing with Simon.   He beat me in a playoff once.   I think he's a wonderful partner to have.   I'll play with any of these guys. 

Q.   (Inaudible.). 
SAM TORRANCE:   Obviously all have a chance to play on The Ryder Cup Team. 
Shane Lowery, I think is at 650,000 on the Order of Merit this year and didn't make the team‑‑ even though he's not here to play, he has a great chance to make The Ryder Cup.   And to the boys that haven't played in The Ryder Cup, this a wonderful insight into what team golf is all about. 

Q.   A lot was said about the absence abouta lot of the top ‑‑ any further remarks about those that are not here? 
PAUL LAWRIE:   No, what I said it was disappointing so many decided not to play, but their schedules are obviously up to them.   The guys that stay in America, it's obviously much tougher to come over here for a week after they have finished as the FedEx.   I wasn't having a go at these guys, or tried not to, but obviously came over that way.
It's disappointing obviously, there's so many that can't make it, but it's a team and you want to do the best in a team tournament and full on this week and in Seve's memory; he changed everything for us.   He's the guy that broke all the barriers and made it possible for all that we are playing for.   All I was saying was that it was disappointing that they are not here‑‑ inaudiblebut I understand their schedules ‑‑

Q.   Inaudible.
PAUL LAWRIE:   Well, obviously trying to but it didn't come over that way.   But I'm a big boy. 

Q.   How much does this sort of week prepare you‑‑
PAUL CASEY:   I think it is sort of a partial steppingstone.   Paul McGinley was saying to everybody that plays, if you get into a situation where you've not made the team and you're up for a possible wild‑card next year, I think he will take into account how we stand up this week and how we play and the records and did we handle the pressure.   I think he'll pay attention to that.   Though this doesn't count correctly, you can certainly do yourself a big favor by winning all your matches. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
SAM TORRANCE:   Less time. 
PAUL CASEY:   In Ryder Cups, you couldn't wait for it to get started, seemed like the buildup‑‑ you just want to get going.   And then when you are going, it's over.   You want it to last longer. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT