U.S. WOMEN'S MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 14, 2017
Olivia Herrick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Congratulations.  
OLIVIA HERRICK: Thank you.   
 Q.  It was a bit of a whirlwind.  You had a big lead.  
OLIVIA HERRICK: Yes, yes.   
 Q.  And it got whittled away.  Tell me a little bit about first how you won.  
OLIVIA HERRICK: Yeah, so I won on the 20th hole, the par-5.  Hit it to about 25 feet.  Hit a great approach shot.  Then lagged it up to just a couple inches.   
So that was great because the nerves are kind of going, so you're really hoping to get that next putt conceded.   
And then Eleanor really hit the first shots that she's missed on that hole, and so she had about a 20-footer for par downhill and it lipped out.  So that's how it ended.   
But really she struggled a little bit in the beginning and I played solid.  And thank goodness that I did, because I could build up a little bit of a lead and then just kind of hang onto that.   
Because she played awesome.  I think she was like 2-under in the final 13 holes or something like that.  So she really played great.  She's an awesome putter.  But I've played a lot of the match play.  I know that it's never over until it's over.   
So I just tried to stay focused and stay calm.  Yeah, that's about it.   
 Q.  You're a little emotional, and understandably so, right?  
OLIVIA HERRICK: Yeah.  I'm not -- I mean, I'm not he emotional, I'm relieved.  It's like a major relief.  I always say you don't know how bad you want it until you win.   
 Q.  Yeah.  
OLIVIA HERRICK: Yeah.   
 Q.  And then it hits you.  
OLIVIA HERRICK: Then you're like, I'm really happy.  Yeah.   
 Q.  So the other thing about it is it's a long day.  You had a relatively comfortable match in the morning, and it looked a little bit like it might be heading that way this afternoon.  You really didn't have any allusions, this is going to be a comfortable afternoon?  You expect a push?  
OLIVIA HERRICK: Yeah, I always try to -- I try to never ever get comfortable.  I always try to stay focused.  You're playing every single hole and every single shot like it's all squared.   
So, yeah, it takes a lot to play 36 holes of match play.  It's mentally exhausting.  I just kept drinking a ton of water and staying focus and going through my routine.   
That's all I can do.  Just be patient and accept the result.   
 Q.  And the last five holes before you won with par were halved in pars.  Was that pretty excruciating?  Was there particular point where it looked like somebody might take the lead?  
OLIVIA HERRICK: It was kind of, yeah, even, like each of us made a couple good putts.  I got up and down for par from the bunker on the 18th hole, so that was awesome.   
I've been spending a lot of time working on my bunker play, so have to text my coach that that kind of came in handy.  I hit it to about a foot and a half, so that's a really good feeling.   
Honestly, it was an amazing match.  Back and forth the entire day.  It was really fun.   
 Q.  Do you know who you're playing next?  
OLIVIA HERRICK: No, I don't.   
 Q.  You're playing Shannon.  
OLIVIA HERRICK: That's right, Shannon.   
 Q.  So obviously you played in the semifinals last year; played a wonderful match at Kahkwa.  
OLIVIA HERRICK: Uh-huh, yeah.   
 Q.  It was a one-hole match.  You know her well; you know what to expect.  
OLIVIA HERRICK: Yeah, yeah, I'm excited.  It'll be fun.  First of all, I love getting to know anybody that's my age that plays golf competitively.  I feel like all of us here are kindred spirits.  When you can ask someone, What do you do professionally and that's the first question you can ask someone, I just think that's so awesome.   
I'm excited to play her again.  She's got a great game.  Clearly she's playing well on this course.  I'll definitely need to bring my A Game tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT