U.S. WOMEN'S MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 14, 2016
Olivia Herrick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Tell me a little bit about the win today, this morning.  You got one more later.  
OLIVIA HERRICK: Yeah, I felt great this morning and felt really in control of my game, like I was hitting the ball really well.  And then she made a couple great birdies on the back to kind of get back at it, and then I had a misstep there on 16 that allowed her to close the gap even more.  It always feels good to be dormie, but I felt like the momentum was swinging a little, so I was glad to get it back to my side.   
 Q.  You were 4 up with four to play and a nice birdie putt by Amanda on 15.  And I think your tee shot was left on 16.  
OLIVIA HERRICK: Yeah.   
 Q.  Does it start to creep in your mind a little bit?  
OLIVIA HERRICK: I mean it always creeps into your mind a little.  I think the challenge is being mentally disciplined enough to just hang in there and do what you need to do to kind of get the job done.  So yeah, it's a challenge, I mean for anyone, I think probably no matter how good of a player you are, how many match-play events you've played, that mental toughness is really key.   
 Q.  You were able to turn it around after you won in the morning yesterday, came back, won again.  What's the key to doing that on a couple of hours, if that?  
OLIVIA HERRICK: Yeah.  I think that the key is just to continually be really thirsty to play better.  Yesterday in the morning I just kept saying to myself, I really want an opportunity to play better in the afternoon, and so I feel that way again today, fighting for that chance to play again this afternoon.   
 Q.  And how do you feel like the state of your game is right now?  
OLIVIA HERRICK: Good.  I felt really in control this morning, especially on the front nine, so just going to look out and try to carry that through the whole round, I guess.  Yeah.  I'm excited.   
 Q.  Got it.  Congratulations.  Thanks.  
OLIVIA HERRICK: Thank you.  Do you know who won the other match?  Margaret?   
 Q.  Shannon won.  
OLIVIA HERRICK: I play Shannon; right?   
 Q.  While we're here, then, tell me a little bit about that.  
OLIVIA HERRICK: I never met her before.  She's clearly a great player.  I'm excited to get to know her, and every opportunity I have to get to know another good, young female player it's great.  It's kind of a small crowd.  (Inaudible).   
 Q.  And this is the deepest run you've made in the women's Mid Am is that correct.  Semifinals?  
OLIVIA HERRICK: Yes.   
 Q.  So is that sort of something that you feel like you've made it to the next phase?  
OLIVIA HERRICK: Yeah.  I know that my game is there.   
 Q.  Got it.  Great.  Thank you.  
OLIVIA HERRICK: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT