U.S. WOMEN'S MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 14, 2016
Olivia Herrick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Par was a really good score in this afternoon round; wouldn't you say?
OLIVIA HERRICK: Yeah, I would say that that is true.  I knew it was going to be tough in that I was going to have to stay really focused and make pars if I wanted to contend, so yeah, it was great.  Shannon is a really good player and a really experienced player, so I knew I needed to play my very best if I wanted to win.  Had a couple slip-ups out there that really cost me, but I'm still very happy.
Q. But everyone is going to have slip-ups.  At one point you made the turn, you won 10 to take a 2-up lead but then came back.  Can you tell me about getting that lead and then how you got back to even?
OLIVIA HERRICK: Yeah, so on 10 I two-putted like a pretty long first putt, and she three-putted, and then she got up-and-down on 11 and I missed a really short putt, so obviously that's kind of a big momentum swing.
And then on 12, I missed a short putt again, like probably a two and a half or three-footer.  Out here, none of them are straight in the hole.  It's like a ball outside, so you put a good stroke on it and you do your best.  Yeah, I was just kind of hanging in there on the back nine.  Normally I play the back really well and I struggled a little bit today, so that ultimately is what ended up costing me.
Q. 17 is such a demanding approach shot.
OLIVIA HERRICK: Yes.
Q. It's really --
OLIVIA HERRICK: Don't ask me about how to do it because I haven't figured it out.
Q. It seems like I hear the members say you've got to keep the ball to the right of the hole, and both of you were left.  Yours took a little bit bigger kick down away.
OLIVIA HERRICK: Yeah, I think that ultimately that's one of those kind of those mental things where you're like, all right, don't go left, but then remember that if you go right, you're coming back at everything on the left, so you're just kind of battling that internal dialogue.  But ultimately, yeah, I did not hit great approach shots into that hole, and luckily in stroke play I was able to get up-and-down one day and then I hit the green another day.  But yeah, that's a really hard hole, especially if the members think so.
Q. Oh, they absolutely do.
OLIVIA HERRICK: I heard apparently that green used to be even harder and they redid it, so now it's -- yeah, it's a lot more mild, which is hard to believe.
Q. And yet here we are, it's Wednesday afternoon, it's the semifinal round.  Your previous best was round of 32, so you advanced three rounds --
OLIVIA HERRICK: I think I lost in the first round twice and I lost in the second round once.  Yeah, I'm very pleased.  I was just saying that this reminds me a little bit of when you hit a bad shot and you've got a really tough chip and then you hit a great chip shot, it almost goes in, and you're like, oh, I can't believe it didn't go in, when you would have been totally happy with par.  I feel right now like I'll just need to take kind of a second to settle myself and just really have gratitude for this week and for playing the way that I did.  If you would have told me last Wednesday that I was going to be standing here right now having just lost to Shannon, I would have been just fine with it.  I'm going to try to look at the positives.  The most positive for me is for sure that I don't have to qualify for the next two years.  I'm super excited about that.  Yeah, I'm just grateful for a really wonderful week.
Q. The Kahkwa Club obviously did a wonderful job this week.
OLIVIA HERRICK: Oh, it is a huge sacrifice to host a tournament like this, time, talent and financially, so yeah, I think all of us feel really grateful and very welcomed by their community and also the greater Erie community.  The news is here.  Yeah, it's been really wonderful.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT