U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP 2017
June 15, 2017
Andrew Johnston
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How was your round?  
ANDREW JOHNSTON: It was good.  Played pretty solid.  I hit my irons really good today.  A few wayward drives.  Also will have for the rest of the week, really.  If I could drive it a bit better, that would be good.   Pretty happy, yeah, decent start.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Yeah, we just had a bit of fun.  I don't know, it just kind of popped into my head and I said it.  We was like, wow, I'm going to get the waterproofs on and get in the rough and he did.   
 Q.  What were your thoughts of the greens?  Did they speed up or did they pretty much stay the same?  
ANDREW JOHNSTON: I thought they stayed pretty similar.  But they're a real good surface, a good speed.  You could hole putts.  If you got the wrong side then it becomes tricky.  I think they're a really good speed.   
 Q.  You had some good results in your U.S. Open.  Is it working out pretty good thus far?  
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Yeah, definitely.  I had real good practice coming in.  I got in Saturday night here, so I had four days practice on the course, which usually I turn up at tournaments on Tuesday morning.  I've had two extra days, which was great.  Yeah, just need to stay positive and keep doing what I'm doing.   
 Q.  Does this course remind you of anything?  
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Yeah, I like it.  I think it's fair.  I think fairways are quite wide.  If you drive it well you're going to hit in a lot of fairways.  If you hit it off line you're going to be stuck.  But as Rory said, I think it's fair.  You can make some birdies out there.  You can make bogeys, too.  I think it's a real fair test.  If I think it's really good.   
 Q.  How do you feel right now?  
ANDREW JOHNSTON: I hit my irons lovely.  I wouldn't change any of the shots.  I just need to drive it a bit better.   
 Q.  What did you think about Rickie this morning?  
ANDREW JOHNSTON: I saw Fowler and they told me at 5 or 6-under, as I got on the putting green.  Yeah, I knew you could make some birdies out there.  It's just one of those things, you've got to get out and just play and try and do your best and hang in there.  And even sort of level par isn't a bad score, either, as well.  It's the U.S. Open, you know they want it to be tough.  You know it's going to be tricky.  But I think it's a bit fairer.   
 Q.  Can you speak about your expectations between your first U.S. Open and your second?  
ANDREW JOHNSTON: No, I always expect to come and do well.  I really enjoyed it.  It was a course that kind suited my game.  I always expect to do well.  But coming back, I have more experience this time.  I know how everything works.  So coming in, I said I want to have a day extra because I want to chip and putt a bit more and get the speed of the greens a little better than I did at Oakmont.  Get more familiar with the course.  So that was the difference between the first one and the second one.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT