BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 27, 2017
Andrew Johnston
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  After a tough day, how do you feel?  
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Okay.  I would say okay.  The way I sort of crawled it back with a couple eagles, but I finished really poorly from the position I was in.  I had a good putt on 16 at birdie and I was in the middle of the fairway with a 3-iron on 17, and I had a good chance on 18, as well, so I should have been making one or two birdies, not being 1-over for the last three.   
 Q.  It wasn't the easiest of starts for you.  The double on the third but a great way to bounce back.  How proud are you when you show resilience like this?  
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Yeah, definitely.  I didn't do much wrong on the third.  I had a good lie and I just thought, it's just going to pop out and release and lucky it's gone in.  But if you drop a shot, you've just got to carry on and just keep doing what you're doing and keep believing that you're going to get some birdies and then come back.   
 Q.  We haven't seen a lot of you this season because you've been in the States and you're learning new courses out there, as well, but you seem to have come back and picked up where you left off, what do you feel has made it click this week for you?  
ANDREW JOHNSTON: It's just so nice.  I just feel at home, and that's like the best thing ever.   
 Q.  And also here, of course the fans love you, everywhere you go here; how big of an impact will that be tomorrow?  
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Yeah, definitely, massive.  I really kind of bounce off it.  Always want to sort of make the putt and hit a good shot in and get the crowd going.  And yeah, I just walk around with a big smile on my face because I never dreamt of sort of being in this position and having that kind of support.   
 Q.  How would you assess your day as a whole?  
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Not too bad.  Looks like I moved up a few spots.  So in a good position for tomorrow but I'm a bit disappointed the way I finished the last three holes.   
 Q.  Talked about yesterday wanting to win golf tournaments and win a lot of trophies.  You're born in London and this is your home.  What would this golf tournament mean to you if you were to win this one tomorrow?  
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Everything, man.  Everything.  I remember coming here as a kid and watching.  So, yeah, everything.   
 Q.  We saw earlier a feature with you and nine-year-old Aaron with major champions.  What's been the reaction you received from that piece?  
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Unbelievable, all the reaction and all the nice comments I've had on social media.  When I turned up today, as well, it's good fun doing things like that and making the kid's birthday a good one.   
 Q.  How much will you pay attention to the leaderboard to try to make a move?  
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Not too much early on.  I need to go out and play well and just go and put a good score on the board and sort of -- I guess when you're coming down the last stretch, you've got the two par 5s and I think it's good to have a look then if you're playing well and see where you're at there.   
 Q.  When you stood on the first tee four hours ago, did you think a round of 72 would see you at the top of the leaderboard?  
ANDREW JOHNSTON: In a way, yes.  It was windy out there.  It was tricky out there.  When I got on the range in the morning, you could see the flags going and the wind up there, so I knew it was going to be a tricky day and it was getting firm yesterday, as well.  So I didn't think it was going to be any softer today.   
 Q.  Double-bogey on 3 but bounce back on the fourth.  
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Yeah, I didn't do much wrong on the third.  I pushed my second shot right in the bunker and it plugged in the bunker and I had no shot and then I've hit it out, it's come out fast and then I've had really tricky chip shot and I hit a good putt and it didn't go in.  So it was like, I really didn't do much, but to sort of bounce back, I would have been happy with a birdie from where my second shot was, but to chip it in is happy days.   
 Q.  I think 12 is playing the easiest on the course this week.  Is it nice knowing you have that eagle opportunity even in this weather?  
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Yeah, you have to step up and hit a good tee shot.  I think if you put it on the fairway, you can be looking at eagle.  I think the tee shot makes the hole.   
 Q.  You were tied seventh last year.  From that experience, what will you take into the final round tomorrow?  
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Yeah, definitely, just got to go and play.  I know I can play well around here, and just try and do my thing.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT