BRITISH MASTERS SUPPORTED BY SKY SPORTS
October 14, 2016
Andrew Johnston
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 65, how chuffed are you with that one?
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Yeah, very happy.  I thought I played well yesterday in the wind and managed to make a few more birdies today.
Q. Was the putting the key?
ANDREW JOHNSTON: It was good.  I putted really well yesterday and I had a lot of putts that just sort of dived off at the end.  Nice to get a couple -- oh, this one, yeah, that was painful, because that's been happening -- wrong hole.
Q. 18.  Your 9?
ANDREW JOHNSTON: That's been happening like the first round and it was quite frustrating but I hit a good putt.  Tap-in birdie is always good.
Q. And this one at 1.  Nicely judged.
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Yeah I hit a lovely putt.  Hit a good wedge shot in and I thought it was going to take maybe a bigger bounce, 4-wood, and again, I hit it and thought it was going dead center just kind of straightened off a bit.  Luckily it crept in.  Obviously some of these putts got to drop.
Q. Nice little run there and how nice was this one to head into a nice spot of lunch with this one?
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Yeah, definitely, it's nice to finish that there.  I hit a terrible wedge shot in.  Only had like 125 yards in and I pulled it really bad.  Yeah, it's good to make that one.
Q. What's your message to the fans, because you're in a wonderful position, huge tournament, big weekend ahead.  What's your message to the fans?
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Make some noise.  What I want to hear is "Beef!!"   I'm loving it; the fans the past two days, the Pro-Am, as well.  They have been amazing.  Just keep it up because I'm loving it.
Q. What will be your preparation tonight?  Maybe have an early night?  What's the plan?
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Yeah, that's exactly it.  Put on a film, chill out, a few cups of tea and a nice dinner and just relax, that's it.
Q. Following Alex Noren all the way around in terms of scoring and suddenly you're level with him.  That's nice, isn't it?
ANDREW JOHNSTON: It was good.  He played great.  A bit unlucky on last hole.  But he's a top player and I was just trying to keep up with him the whole day.
Q. Does this mean a lot to you, playing the British Masters?
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Yeah, massive.  It's a great event and it's so good being at home and playing with the home crowds, it's brilliant.
Q. The home crowds presumably include quite a few people you know?
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Yeah, quite a few members from my home course and friends and stuff like that.  It's good.
Q. Everybody feels they know you now, don't they?
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Yeah, I think so, but I like that.  I have a good like relationship with the crowds and stuff and just have a good time with them, so it's nice.  I always think like, all the kids and like people coming up and ask for a pictures and sign stuff like that and it's nice and open.  It's good.
Q. Have there been a couple of odd requests?
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Yeah, some guy last night asked me to sign his forehead so I put big Beef across his forehead and took a picture, and it was a Sharpie, as well.  I'm hoping it's still on his head.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT