ITALIAN OPEN
October 11, 2019
Andrew Johnston
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Satisfied with today?
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Yeah, very. I thought I hit it slightly better. Felt like I worked out where I was going, felt I hit it better, a bit of improvement for yesterday, but in a good spot.
Q. You said yesterday you were going to head to the range. What really clicked today?
ANDREW JOHNSTON: It's mostly my backswing, the second half of my backswing. My wrist position wasn't right in my left wrist. I was trying to feel that today. Felt like I hit better shots today but as I said, yeah, hopefully come out tomorrow and get a good feeling again. Know what I need to do. Yeah, keep ticking along.
Q. Couple great rounds in the 60s. What's the overriding thought for the weekend?
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Try to do the same, have some fun, enjoy it, no pressure on myself, and just go and play.
Q. You look like you've got that smile back, and commentators were saying there's a spring in your step. Do you feel that way?
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Definitely. I feel like I put no pressure on myself to play. Go out, try my best and what my best is that day is my best. As long as I can come off the course knowing I haven't given up; that I've tried my best and I've had fun, that's success for me.
Q. Quick word on the Race to Dubai. How much are you looking at the Top 60, weeks ahead, or is it very much one round, one week at time a time?
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Yeah, one round, one week at time a time. I've got a baby on the way. I've got to build the cot and stuff at some point, and that's going take a few weeks I think.
So I'm not going to play too many events coming in because yeah, it's more important. I want to get everything ready for that. Yeah, see what I do.
Q. Early December; is that right?
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Yeah, early December.
Q. How pleased you are with the position you're in so far?
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Yeah, very pleased. I've got the golf ball around the golf course well. Managed it well. Hopefully a bit more on the weekend.
Q. I know you said yesterday it wasn't quite there with the swing. How did it feel out there today?
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Yeah, a bit better today. Yesterday went back to the range and worked a few things out and I'll be trying to get a good feeling on the range tomorrow morning.
Q. Been an awkward trend for you since Scotland. How pleased are you with how that's progressed over the season and looking towards to the next few events?
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Yeah, I'm really pleased. I've played some good golf. Shot some good scores and played nicely. Yeah, it's just a matter of persistence, really, and patience. If it doesn't happen tomorrow or Sunday or this weekend, just keep working the same process. I know what I'm doing is right and it's going in the right direction. It's a matter of just keep nudging that. Keep doing that.
You always want to see your name at the top of the leaderboard and competing, trying to win trophies and finish as high as possible, but again, I'm putting no pressure on myself. I'm just going to go out and play and see what happens.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT