PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
July 28, 2016
Andrew Johnston
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ANDREW JOHNSTON: It was good.  My putter was so cold early on today, I had some absolute shockers.  Wasn't happy the way I pace putted, but I knew I was driving the ball well and I could give myself chances.  I just kind of hung in there.   
 Q.  How has the course played?  
ANDREW JOHNSTON: It's tricky.  It sounds stupid, but it's so many par-4s where you are hitting driver, 7-iron, 6-iron, 7-iron, 6-iron into them, like that.  They firmed up a bit.  I was surprised of how firm they were this afternoon compared to practice.  I hit a couple where I thought that was going to be a bouncer of ten foot and it ended up of 20 foot away.  I didn't make much, so it was tricky.   
 Q.  You had a couple of putts that were really course.  
ANDREW JOHNSTON: A couple.  I had a couple 3-putts, not even from that long a distance, you know.  I struggled with the pace.  Yeah, there was a few sort of like eight footers missed and six footers.  But I holed a couple good ones coming in.  Just go on that putting green and try and get a bit better for tomorrow.   
 Q.  You may get the best part of the weather tomorrow before it comes in.  Is that the idea, to post low tomorrow morning?  
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Just to go and be more consistent.  If I can drive it similar to how I did today, it was great.  I hit a lot of fairways.  I hit my irons lovely.  It just needs to be a bit sharper on the green.   
 Q.  How about the crowd reaction?  Is it different than what you got at Troon?  
ANDREW JOHNSTON: I really appreciate that.  I tried to acknowledge as much as possible.  It means a lot.  I just really enjoy it.  It sort of keeps me going through the round.  Even if I had a bad holes, there was some real nice comments out there.  Don't worry, get it back on the next.  Just real positive comments.   
 Q.  Interesting hole on 15, you were with the crowd.  What happened?  
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Man, I hoofed it off the tee.  Then I hoofed the next one.  I was trying to hit a cut and use the wind for my second shot.  I completely double frosted it.  I got over there and I was talking to the ref.  I got a bit confused with the rule basically.  He was saying you can't get a drop -- I'm going to get this wrong anyway.  You can't get a drop away from where the scoreboards if it's not in line with the flag.   
But I said, I want to chip it under the tree.  That was my honest thing was I wanted to chip it left of the bunker and get on the green, take two putts and get off.   
So he goes, You can get a drop about a club length and that's it.   
I was saying, But it's still in my way.   
Then he goes, It's got to be in line with the flag and line of sight.  It's got to be both of them.   
I just went, Okay, I'll just chip it over the scoreboard.  I have no choice.  All right, let's just get on with it.  It took me a while to understand what he was saying.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT