THE 145TH OPEN
July 15, 2016
Andrew Johnston
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. That was entertaining.
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Yeah, it's been like that the last two days on this course.  It's been strange.  Started off all right, and I got into the fourth on Thursday, and then I was just in the rough down the right and I hit the most pure shank I've ever hit.  I haven't hit one since I was like 12 years old, and I lost the ball.  I was like, where'd that come from?  And then after that I flushed it yesterday, and I didn't miss a shot, really.
It was sort of kind of similar today until I got on 11, I pretty much shanked two 3-woods.  It was odd to say.  Yeah, two funny ones and then bounced back again.
Q. You must be delighted to come in 2-under par again.  You're in contention.
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Yeah, yeah, there's a long way to go.  It's not even worth thinking about.  Just got to go out and play tomorrow and see what happens after that and evaluate after the third round and go on from there.
Q. Tell us where the nickname came from?
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Oh, man, it's a bad story.  Just when I was a kid, if I'D grow my hair out, I'm quarter Jamaican so it goes curly.  So one of my friends said, "Look at your head, it looks like a big bit of beef.  You've got a beef head."  And honestly it just stuck.  Now everyone calls me Beef.  It's been shortened to Beef.
Q. (Inaudible) you must be doing something right?
ANDREW JOHNSTON: I thought I heard them shout that, yeah (laughing).
Q. So what's sort of ahead for you?
ANDREW JOHNSTON: I think I'm just going to dry off and chill out.  I don't think I'll do too much practise.  I'll be playing the afternoon tomorrow, so just do the same I've done.  Go warm-up in the physio truck, go practise for an hour, hour 15 and go out and play.
Q. Do you think you can do this?
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Yeah, why not?  Why not?  I think you've got to believe.  If you're in the tournament, why can't you win it?  But it's miles off.  We've still got two rounds to go, so there's no point in even thinking about it.
Q. Are you enjoying it, you're almost becoming a celebrity out there.  You have fans calling your name and all that stuff.  Are you enjoying this?
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Yeah, I love it.  I dreamt of it as a kid, man.  Playing in these events and people shouting your name.  I absolutely love it.
Q. You had two or three birdies.  Are you often a streaky player like that?
ANDREW JOHNSTON: No, generally I've been quite steady this year and not as many 7s and stuff like that.  But it happens sometimes.  Every time I've hit a good shot in I've made the putt.  And it's just kind of fallen like that, and you've just got to go with it.
Q. Did the conditions affect you at all?  How do you approach it?  Do you approach it differently at all?
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Just got to try to take your time and make sure your hands and grips are dry.  Just make sure you're concentrating, that's it.
Q. (Inaudible).
ANDREW JOHNSTON: I don't like wearing too many layers and that.  I said to my caddie I'm quite comfy in this.  I don't mind if I get a bit wet.  As long as the clubs are dry and my hands are dry, I'm happy.
Q. What was it like (inaudible)?
ANDREW JOHNSTON: The worst?  The worst moment was 11 after hitting it.  But the weather -- it was about 12:30 when it was pretty bad when it started coming down.  Yeah, it was pretty bad.
Q. Did you have any notion at all that you might be in Ryder Cup contention?
ANDREW JOHNSTON: I'm not one for thinking too much.  I don't think about it too much.  I just go from day to day, and I find that's the best way for me to be.  I'm looking forward to chilling out this afternoon and then turning up tomorrow and playing.
Q. So it comes naturally to you?  Keeping it simple?
ANDREW JOHNSTON: I try to.  You get thoughts and you're obviously thinking about what's going to happen Saturday, Sunday.  But realistically you just got to stop talking about that.  Now we've got 36 holes to play, so there's no point even thinking about it.
Q. Did you happen to notice just off the 15 a couple of fans had come to waving burgers at you?
ANDREW JOHNSTON: No, that's amazing!
Q. Is that something you're used to?
ANDREW JOHNSTON: No, I didn't see it.  I didn't see it.  That's amazing (laughing)!  I love that.
Q. They were waving burgers at you, yeah.
ANDREW JOHNSTON: I love it.
Q. The Americans have taken to you.  They think you're some sort of character.  Do you think this is what golf needs is a bit of personality in there?
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Everyone's different.  I get on so well with a lot of the quiet guys as well, and that's just how they are.  But, yeah, if someone shouts my name out and stuff and has some fun, I'm going to acknowledge it and maybe have a laugh back, man, because that's just the way I am.  I guess that's the way I've been brought up in my golf club.  Everyone just sort of has a bit of banter and has fun.
Q. When you're sort of playing alongside Phil Mickelson, are you in awe of all of these guys?
ANDREW JOHNSTON: It's sort of a learning curve.  When I first started playing you're in awe of them, but they're no different.  Then you get used to it.  It's just experience.  That's all it is.  It's funny, when you're younger you say you just need to gain some experience.  And you're sometimes saying, what's that?  And then you gain that by playing with them.  So you're better off looking forward to it and getting to know them.  There are a lot of nice guys.  So, yeah, embrace it.  Don't get shocked by it.
Q. The hair on the back of your head is soaked in.  The hair in the front is dry.  Did it get in the way out there at all?
ANDREW JOHNSTON: I wanted a longer cap, man, just to keep it dry.  No, it was a bit wet.  But it's all right.  It's not that bad.
Q. Did you have any sort of coats with you?
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Yeah, yeah, I had a jumper and a waterproof top, but I just felt comfortable.  And I was like oh, I don't need it today.  I'm all right.  I'm not that cold, so it was fine.
Q. How are you going to kill the time between now and tomorrow afternoon?
ANDREW JOHNSTON: About 20 cups of tea maybe, watch a bit of it.  My mom and sister and my niece is over, so I'll probably be playing Soft Kitties with my niece this afternoon.  She hammered me on that yesterday, so I want to get her back.
Q. Big cat or furry cats?
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Or different cats, they've got tigers in there and stuff.  But she knows all the cards, I think.
Q. How old is she?
ANDREW JOHNSTON: She's five.
Q. (Inaudible).
ANDREW JOHNSTON: No, I think she's getting into it.  I can hear her shouting out "Uncle Beef" now nearly every hole, and "Beef to the rescue" she came out with today.  She cracks me up.
Q. What's her name?
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Summer.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT