COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 30, 2016
Andrew Johnston
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How much fun out there was that?  
ANDREW JOHNSTONE: It was good fun.  It's good being up in the mix.  I haven't been up there for awhile, so it's been good fun this week.   
 Q.  You're new on Tour, you're still finding your feet; what's the buzz out there?  What's the energy like when you get contention?  Do you get nervous or do you relish the opportunity?  
ANDREW JOHNSTONE: It varies week-to-week.  I don't feel that nervous this week for some strange reason, but I was really enjoying the last two days.  It's just been good fun.   
 Q.  You wake up today, you're chasing by four.  Is it the sort of environment where you're grateful that it's blowing?  Is it easier to try and catch someone when you know it's going to be difficult to move forward?  
ANDREW JOHNSTONE: Yeah, I think so.  I think I was hoping that it would be similar to yesterday, and if you can go out and shoot a good score, you might have a chance.   
 Q.  Aspirations for the rest of the year, has to do a lot for confidence, this.  Do you think that first win is close?  
ANDREW JOHNSTONE: Yeah, maybe.  We'll find out.  Just got to keep playing.   
 Q.  Thoughts on the week?  
ANDREW JOHNSTONE: Yeah, it's been a very positive week.  It's been a good week and I've enjoyed it.   
 Q.  What have you done well?  
ANDREW JOHNSTONE: I've played the winds really well.  Distance control has been very good this week.  I haven't hit many sort of really short or really long.  So I've always been sort of around pin-high.  Never been that far off line either.  It's been good.   
 Q.  Do you get that sense of excitement today knowing you're nicely in the mix?  
ANDREW JOHNSTONE: Yeah, I just try to stay calm for the first nine, and then I went birdie, birdie on 10 and 11 and thought, okay, here we go and I birdied 16, and I had a real good chance on 17 for birdie and a real good chance on 18.  I just wish I had made them two.  Gave it my best.   
 Q.  This is probably a good thing but we never really know with you, because you look like you're enjoying your golf regardless.  Whether it's a bogey or not, you always seem to have that right frame of mind.  
ANDREW JOHNSTONE: Yeah, I try to be happy out there.  We're lucky people, so shouldn't complain and should be happy when we're playing.   
 Q.  You sensed a very realistic chance coming home, even looking at boards and seeing Grace was a little clear?  
ANDREW JOHNSTONE: I could see he was 13 and I was 11.   So if I could make them last two putts and try to get it in on 13, I thought maybe I have a chance.   
 Q.  Has it been a little while since you've enjoyed this kind of heat of battle?  
ANDREW JOHNSTONE: It's been quite a long while, so it's been good fun.   
 Q.  Which makes it good for 2016, doesn't it?  
ANDREW JOHNSTONE: Hopefully.  Just have to keep doing the right things and see what happens.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT