ITALIAN OPEN
October 10, 2019
Andrew Johnston
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How happy are you with the start and finish?
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Really happy. It was one of them strange days on the golf course where I didn't really hit the ball great. But the score, made a lot of birdies, and you could tell by sort of what my front nine, which was the back, a few birdies, a few bogeys, and I kept it in play a bit better off the tee on the other nine.
Yeah, still managed to score, so happy days.
Q. That must give you a lot of satisfaction. Yes, when you're playing well and scoring great, that's nice, but when you have to grind it out a little bit, that must give you a lot of pleasure?
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Yeah, I think my head was really good today. I walk around, it's a case of learning, I'm trying every shot, but I'm a lot more relaxed about it and not beating myself up, which has been nice. I'm just going out there and playing, and if I come off 4-over, whatever, if I come off 4-under, whatever. Just see if I can go work it out on the range this afternoon.
Q. You played well at Wentworth, didn't you. Overall confidence coming in here, you must be feeling good about things?
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Yeah, I've been playing nice. Since I come back to the British Masters, I've played some good golf. Confidence has been good. Just keep working on process and what I'm doing with Hugh and keep going.
Q. Thoughts heading into the next couple days after this start and the number you posted?
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Yeah, I'm going to go to the range and see if I can work out why I was missing it a bit. And then I'm going to go eat probably my fourth carbonara of the week so far. I think that's the plan.
Q. Picking up on the Tweet, I replied to it when you said, about it, the guys were talking about it on the commentary earlier: If you dropped your hire car back on Sunday, unscathed without a scrape, that will be your biggest success of the week. I completely echo that comment.
ANDREW JOHNSTON: It's so hard driving here. It was still hard at 5.00 this morning. It's crazy. But I'm doing all right, so far. Yeah, I'm getting closer to Sunday, no scratches.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT