BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 25, 2015
Andrew Johnston
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Tell us about that finish in particular, because you almost chipped in at the last and that was three birdies on the bounce?  
ANDREW JOHNSTON:   Yeah, it was a good finish.   I played the par5 before that.   I had six yards in and I played a horrendous third shot, and I was a bit frustrated at not making birdie there.   
Just said, be patient, keep doing what you're doing, hit the middle of the green.   Holed a couple of good putts on 16, 17, and then nearly holed the bunker shot on 18.   So happy days.  
   
 Q.   Which means it's a lovely score around here.   It's one of those that you know there's going to be some scores but at the same time it can be a little bit tricky?  
ANDREW JOHNSTON:   I think so.   You've got a few long par 4s and I think you've got to hit the fairways; the greens are amazing.   So if you get on there and you're rolling it, you can hole some putts.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel good about playing at this place?  
ANDREW JOHNSTON:   Yeah, obviously, feel good and chilled.   
   
 Q.   But good in terms of your game, as well, because I know that sadly, recently, apart from that wonderful hole‑in‑one at Wentworth, there's been a few MC's against your name.   
ANDREW JOHNSTON:   That was about the only highlight of that last one.   Yeah, it is what it is.   You've just got to keep doing and not get too down about it and not get too up when you're doing well and just keep trying.  
   
 Q.   Are you positive, generally?   You seem to be.   
ANDREW JOHNSTON:   Yeah, I try and be as positive as I can and just stay chilled.  
   
 Q.   Does it help, the fact that you started the season so well down in South Africa with that wonderful chance at Leopard Creek?  
ANDREW JOHNSTON:   Definitely.   Because if I have like a bad patch like I've had, I'm still in a good position and just keep ticking along and be patient.   
   
 Q.   Presumably makes life easier knowing there's money and points on the board, that sort of thing.   
ANDREW JOHNSTON:   Yeah, it's always nice to get points early on the board.   It takes a bit of pressure off and you can just sort of plan well and keep going.  
   
 Q.   I know it's history now but that hole‑in‑one at Wentworth, presumably you're talking about that with mates and everybody pretty much that sees the video?  
ANDREW JOHNSTON:   Yeah, it's been mad.   Everyone says, oh, the hole‑in‑one and everyone is coming up like chest pump and things like that.   It's been so funny.  
   
 Q.   Even here?  
ANDREW JOHNSTON:   No, not yet.   
   
 Q.   But carry on like this and there might be.   
ANDREW JOHNSTON:   Maybe, yeah.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT