ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 12, 2012
Andrew Johnston
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  ANDREW JOHNSTON:   I hit a few good birdie putts and they were about 15 foot and I turned around to my caddie and said, I've just got to hit it closer.   Got on the next and I was between 7‑ and 8‑iron, and thought, I'll stick with the 8 because I can commit to and hit it straight at the flag and just popped in.

Q.   You saw it all the way?
ANDREW JOHNSTON:   Yeah, saw it all the way‑‑ kind of looked away for a little bit but looked back.   Mike shouted, get in, get in, and I looked and saw two bounces and it popped in.

Q.   It was pure, always on line?
ANDREW JOHNSTON:   Yeah.   It's so freaky, because I played with my brother about a year ago, at this time, just before The Open, and he had a hole‑in‑one back home.   And he hit an 8‑iron, as well, and it never left the flag.   It's just so similar, it's scary.

Q.   And even more uncanny, Phil Price, who did exactly the same at this hole last year. 
ANDREW JOHNSTON:   Yeah, I know, it's just ridiculous.   I can't believe it.   And a couple of weeks ago in Germany, Mike was playing with Andy Marshall and he had a hole‑in‑one there.   Just meant to happen.

Q.   Andy Marshall got a car for it; James Morrison got a car; and your prize isn't too shabby, you've got 168 bottles of Laurent Perrier Champagne. 
ANDREW JOHNSTON:   I think I'm going to have to give quite a few away or I'll turn into an alcoholic I think.   I think they will last awhile. 
Really special.   Still don't really think it's happened.

Q.   Put it into context, because that's a decent start as a round, isn't it?
ANDREW JOHNSTON:   Yeah, it is, and I needed something to get my round going and it was just perfect.   To make a 1 there and get to 2‑under and have the par5 under, it was good timing really. 
I've been playing better than some of miles an hour scores and things like that.   I know it's not that far away but it's time to kick on now. 

Q.   So the confidence is okay coming into an important part of the season?
ANDREW JOHNSTON:   Yeah, confidence is okay, putting four rounds together, four good round together and really get going and have some good finishes. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT