ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 14, 2019
Andrew Johnston
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  A round 62, career-low round, just sum that up from your point of view?  
ANDREW JOHNSTON: It's a nice feeling, yeah.  I guess it's been a hard year, so yeah, I'm happy.   
 Q.  Clearly an emotional time for you.  You've been very open and honest about some of the issues you've had.  Does this really feel like the road to recovery is very much on?  
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Yeah, definitely.  Yeah, I've tried so hard in the last year, and yet to come out and shoot a score like that is such a nice feeling.   
 Q.  Let's talk a little bit about that round and give you a moment to recover yourself.  Obviously you're 9-under par through 15 holes, we're thinking 59, place in The Open, we're thinking all sorts.  What were you thinking?  
ANDREW JOHNSTON: To be honest, I was just thinking -- I was just chatting to Pete, just having a good chat and just having fun out there.  Wasn't thinking about much.  Just try and take next shot, next shot and just kept chatting absolute rubbish to him to be honest and just tried to stay in that sort of frame of mind and just carry on.   
 Q.  Obviously you played in The Open a few times, back in 2016 you finished Top-10, I know how much you enjoyed it.  How much would it mean to get back there?  
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Of course, you want playing tournaments, Open, major, all the best tournaments.  We'll see if it's good enough, if it's good.  If not, so be it.   
 Q.  How much love were you feeling from the crowd?  Because people are aware of the struggle you've had?  
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Yeah, you know, what the reaction I've had has been amazing and I can't thank everyone enough for that.   
 Q.  What do you think has been the main element that has brought you back to this position?  
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Working with a psychologist.  Working with him, yeah, 100 percent.  Told me to take some time off.  At the time I didn't want to.  I wanted to keep going, because I thought it's the wrong thing to do and when I took some time, sort of things come to me, which was good.   
Yeah, got lots to work with and still I can keep going.   
 Q.  Going out in 31, at what point were you thinking, hey, this is a pretty special day?  
ANDREW JOHNSTON: I missed a good chance on 7 for birdie.  I was just like, just keep ticking along and see what happens.  Yeah, played 10,1112, hole, and just see what happens, just keep ticking, and yeah, birdies just kept coming.   
Yeah, probably didn't think it was going to start to be special until about 15, 16.   
 Q.  Great to see you smiling, especially after what you've been through.  You've been very honest detailing your struggles with depression.  Why have you been public about it?  
ANDREW JOHNSTON: It's the truth, isn't it.  Why not?  Like you can't go wrong with saying the truth.  Yeah, that's how it was, so yeah, just say it as it is.   
 Q.  Well, there may be a chance for you to get into the Open.  You're expecting a child; you're engaged.  What are your emotions right now big picture as you look forward?  
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Life's good, man.  Life's good, and even I said, like even if golf doesn't go too well, I have a great fiancée and I have a baby on the way, so, yeah, happy.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT