U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 16, 2018
Andrew Johnston
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Next on the Flash podium is Andrew Johnston.   
 Q.  To pick up on what you were just saying, what did you see on 13 from Phil?  
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Just one of the mad moments, really.  We were both obviously really struggling.  It was funny because I didn't think he hit that bad of a chip shot from behind the green in the first place.  And as it released and went through, I thought wow, that is seriously quick.  So to knock that past and then hit the putt going back towards back off the green, I think it's just one of the moments where you're not thinking about it.  It just -- it just happens, and he just did it.   
It wasn't a thing of saying, I've had enough or this and that.  It just happened.   
 Q.  What did you say to him?  
ANDREW JOHNSTON: I said that's one of the strangest things I've ever seen and then just started laughing, to be honest.  I said I'm sorry, but I've got to laugh at this.   
 Q.  I saw you guys laughing in the scoring area there.  What was the exchange in there?  
ANDREW JOHNSTON: I think we were both happy to get off the golf course.  It was more relief we got off the golf course, and now we can enjoy the afternoon.   
 Q.  Because you were playing competitively, did you have any issue with what he did?  
ANDREW JOHNSTON: No, not at all.  Again, I've never seen anything like it.  It's something you might see at your home course with your mates or something.  But it was just a moment -- I think it's just a moment of madness.   
But it's nothing disrespectful to me or to the U.S. Open or anything.  It's just one of them things that just happened.   
 Q.  What did he say to you when you said I'm sorry, mate.  What did he say to you?  
 A. He just laughed with me.  He just looked at me and just laughed.  We just laughed at it.  He had no words to say what he did.  It was just one of the moments where he was just like, I have nothing to say about it.   
 Q.  Have you ever, in a tournament round, thought about doing something like that?  
ANDREW JOHNSTON: No, no.  I don't think anyone has.  And that's why it was so strange because I don't think anyone had them thoughts.  No one ever has them thoughts.  And it just happened.  And that's all I can really say about it.   
It was strange.  I mean, we laughed for a while, I think.   
 Q.  Does it ease the pain of a not so great round?  I mean, you come off the course laughing.  
ANDREW JOHNSTON: You have to.  Otherwise, I'll be crying, and I felt like after 12, 13, holes, I felt like I really didn't play that bad.  And the difference from the first two days to this day is I hit it in all the wrong spots, just got on the wrong side of the pins, and it was an absolute nightmare from there.  I think, if you don't laugh here, you'll end up going insane.   
 Q.  Was the golf course harder today than the first two days?  
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Greens were a lot firmer today.  It was playing like the first day.  Then a few of them were getting baked out there and getting real shiny, and the greens started to pick up speed on the back nine and they changed quite a lot from the front to back, I felt.   
Again, I don't think it was too different from the first day, but it's just the way I managed the golf ball.  It was nowhere near as good as Thursday.   
 Q.  What would a good number be in these conditions right now, going out like the leaders did an hour ago?  
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Anything between, I mean, if you shoot 70 to 73, that's a good score.   
 Q.  Thanks.  
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Cheers, thanks.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT