ABU DHABI HSBC CHAMPIONSHIP
January 20, 2018
Andrew Johnston
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What do you put that performance down to?  
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Just hard work, man.  Last year was crazy and like getting distracted and things like that, and you don't know it's happened until you've finished the season, you're off doing things and you're burning the candle at both ends.  When I got back from last season, sort of had time to reflect on it, I sort of said to myself, you know, you've got to keep quiet and keep disciplined and get on with your work.  I came out here a week early to Dubai and drove down.  It's been good prep.   
 Q.  What do you look to do differently this year?  
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Just, you know, I'm a social person.  If you go out with friends or you get invited to something, I'll have a beer, please, but I probably had a few too many beers, I would say, to be honest and it reflected in my golf and I was disappointed looking back at it.  I want to turn that around and have a good season.   
 Q.  It sounds like it was the right thing to do, but sounds like you had a good time, as well, last year.  Just looking forward to tomorrow, back in contention, where you want to be, because you're a serious golfer.  A lot of people are here to see you play but here to see you play well.  What's the strategy?  
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Got to drive the ball well.  I think if you drive it well, you give yourself a lot of wedges, 9-irons in and you can score.  I think you've got to putt it on the fairway, and I did that the front nine today and I didn't drive it as well on the back.  That's why I didn't carry on the scoring today.  That is the key.   
Today I just got on a really good roll.  I was a bit disappointed with my back nine, that I couldn't carry on and maybe made a couple more, but 6-under is always a good score and you've got to be happy with that.   
 Q.  What pleased you most about your game today?  
ANDREW JOHNSTON: I think patience.  I started off hot and it's easy to get carried away when you're in that position to keep going at flags and sometimes you've just got to be a bit patient, and hopefully you keep picking up a few here and there once you get off to a good start.  I think that was key.   
 Q.  Plans before tomorrow's round?  
ANDREW JOHNSTON: Just chill out, man.  Going to go and relax.  Probably watch Netflix for a bit, something like that and get some room service and relax.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT