NBA FINALS: HEAT v SPURS
June 11, 2014
Manu Ginobili
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. I guess history kind of repeated itself.   You guys did beat the Heat convincingly in Game 3 last year.   Is that something you can draw on going into Game 4 this time around knowing what to expect out of them?   
MANU GINOBILI:   No, we always know what to expect.   The thing is that sometimes we can do it and sometimes we can't.   It's not that we play by ourselves.   It's an opponent that presents you with a lot of trouble and difficulties, and it's a tough series.   We're playing a wonderful team, so we're going to try to do the same, of course.   It's going to be pretty hard to shoot 19‑for‑20 in the first few minutes, but the goal is the same.   Sometimes we can, and sometimes it's very hard.  
   
 Q.   How do you believe they'll be more physical on defense?   What would you expect and how would they play differently against you?   
MANU GINOBILI:   Yes, for sure they'll be more attentive, more aggressive.   They're going to start from scratch attacking the rim, trying to get to the free‑throw line and pressuring us.   So they feed off that, and creating turnovers, running, dunks, getting everybody involved.   
So it's going to be an intense game, and they're going to be upset, the same way we were upset for losing at home.   So it's a tough, tough challenge.  
   
 Q.   You said you're probably not going to shoot 19‑for‑21, but you can still play with the same energy.   So how do you bring that energy that you had last night into tomorrow night?   
MANU GINOBILI:   For sure.   We're going to have to bring that energy, that juice, that concept of the game, just moving the ball, attacking quick, find opportunities, try to force turnovers.   But they're going to have the same goal and they're going to be more aggressive.   They're not going to turn over the ball 20 times, that's for sure.   
So it's not going to be as easy to score 70 points in the NBA Finals against them on the road.   It's almost unrepeatable.   Very hard to do it again.   So we're going to have to be more sharp on the details, less mistakes because the percentages are not going to be with us the same way.  
   
 Q.   You always talk about how you guys have to play smart because they're younger and stronger.   Can you play any smarter tomorrow night than you did last night?   
MANU GINOBILI:   Yeah, yeah.   I think you always can do it better.   If we watch the tape, we'll see many mistakes, too.   The thing is that we masked it with making so many shots.   We went 6‑for‑6 in first shots and we went up 14‑6 very early.   So the mistakes you made kind of faded away.   
So in a game where it's closer, every mistake you paid at a higher price.   So we're going to have to do a better job.  
   
 Q.   Manu, have you been part of a dynasty here in San Antonio over the course of your career do you think?   
MANU GINOBILI:   Well, I think what we have accomplished hasn't been seen a lot in many other cities or teams.   Maybe you saw it with the Lakers or Celtics, but having a group of three players and a coach for more than a decade and winning three or four championships and making it to the Finals.   I don't know what the word "dynasty" means exactly, but I know that we accomplished a lot of things.   We won a lot of games together.  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT