NBA FINALS: HEAT v SPURS
June 8, 2014
Manu Ginobili
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Miami Heat - 98
      San Antonio Spurs - 96 
   
 Q.   Manu, why did the ball stop moving so much for the Spurs in the second half?   
    MANU GINOBILI:   Good question.   Mistakes.   We stopped the ball.   Against a team like them, we are not going to score much if we do stop the ball.   So late in the third and early in the fourth we brought the pace up, and we were able to score a little more.   
    But, yeah, there are moments where we forget what got us to where we are now.   It happened also in Game 1.   The only thing that we were perfect for moments in Game 1.   We know how it works.   We are playing a great team with great players.   They've been here many times so we've got to be close to perfect to win and today we were far from it.   
   
 Q.   One play or one sequence never wins or loses a game, but was it emotionally tough when Tony missed the two and then Timmy got fouled right after and he missed two more?  
    MANU GINOBILI:   Yeah, it was a tough one.   I think we were up two and‑‑  
   
 Q.   And LeBron hit the three?  
    MANU GINOBILI:   We got a stop, flagrant foul, we got an opportunity to score four points in a play and we get to the line and miss all four.   That hurts.   We were pretty poor from the line, 12‑for‑20.   And, again, that is so close that that always helps.   But it was a tough one.   
   
 Q.   What has to change offensively and defensively for you guys to come away with a win in Game 3?   
    MANU GINOBILI:   Details.   Every position counts.   We took care of the ball much better than in Game 1 and we were in a good spot.   I mean, if LeBron gets hot and starts making shots like that, it can happen.   But we were still in the game and down the stretch we couldn't execute well.   We took a few bad shots, contested, and they didn't.   They found Chris Bosh wide open on the corner.   They took a few shots that went in and bottom line is that it was a very close game in the last two minutes they executed better.   
   
 Q.   Spoelstra said the series is just beginning, how do you see it as far as making changes for Game 3?   
    MANU GINOBILI:   It is just beginning but, of course, we took a tough one today.   We were in a good spot.   We played an okay game, not perfect but we were right there.   And it slipped away.   
    Now we are in a tough situation because we gotta go to Miami and we gotta get 10.   We don't want to come back here 3‑1 down, it's very hard to overcome that.   
    Definitely it's going to be a great challenge for the team to play in an arena like that and having to win.   
    We'll see how it goes.   
   
 Q.   What do you think happened in the early part of the second quarter, you're up 11, and three turnovers, couldn't make a shot.   What do you think happened?   
    MANU GINOBILI:   We got a little sloppy with the ball.   We were pretty sharp with that, we didn't turn the ball over much, I think it was 11 or 12 in the whole game but in that period we had three almost in a row.   Another one I remember was Tony's shot from the corner.   LeBron got the rebound and, you know, he gets full speed it's really hard to stop him, and the balance was not there.   
    It happens against them.   That's what they do.   They leave off that.   If you don't execute every single play and you're not cautious every single play, they can go on 10‑0 runs.   They've done it against everybody and that was a moment where we were not as strong and mentally strong.   
    Again, we had that little problem, three, four minutes but we got it back.   We were back up and with a few minutes to go.   That can happen.   They are a team of runs and they have the strength and the talent to make that happen.   
   
 Q.   You guys did do a better job protecting the ball but you had the turnover there at the end.   Can you take us through that, what you were trying to do.   Was it miscommunication trying to get the ball down low?   
    MANU GINOBILI:   Which one?   
   
 Q.   The turnover at the end.   
    MANU GINOBILI:   I had the ball on the top, I got poked in the eye.   When I look up it was 7 seconds, and I did what I do always, try to make Chris Bosh commit to me, bring the blitz and I threw it to TD and it was too hard.   
   
 Q.   Getting poked in the eye, did that contribute to that?   
    MANU GINOBILI:   No, it stopped the play, so I lost sight of the situation but then I run the same pick‑and‑roll that I run so many times.   I gotta see it.   I'm not sure.   I don't know exactly how it happened, if it was a bad pass, too hard or something, but things that happen.   
    THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT