NBA FINALS: HEAT v SPURS
June 7, 2014
Manu Ginobili
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Manu, with the number of days off in between Games 1 and 2, do you ever worry about overthinking successes from the first game with the number of days to think about before Game 2?   
    MANU GINOBILI:   That is something that you gotta think about even if it's only‑‑ there is only 48 hours, when you get too comfortable, too satisfied, you are in deep trouble.   So hopefully we don't get to that situation, especially playing against who we are playing against.   
    I think that's an issue regardless of the 48 or 72‑hour thing, you can't be satisfied because how good they are.   
    Because we haven't accomplished anything yet.   Besides, we're in the same spot‑‑ even a better spot last year at this point.   
   
 Q.   Is there a difference for you as a player perhaps health‑wise coming into these Finals in comparison to last year?   
    MANU GINOBILI:   No, I'm coming from a better season overall.   I'm more confident, because of the up and downs of the previous season.   Physically I'm as good as last year.   
   
 Q.   Was there anything that perhaps you did to improve your season this time around?   Last year Finals there were four games where you had under 10 points.   
    MANU GINOBILI:   I could have easily had under 10 points Game 1, and I gotta play well anyway.   It doesn't spend the scoring on how well you played.   Of course I struggled, the three losses, 2, 4 and 6, no different.   I just played the game.   We can't make conclusions about one game, just got to take it easy.   
   
 Q.   Your bench is strong for the Spurs.   A lot of bench units think of themselves as a group and come up with a nickname.   You guys do anything like that?   
    MANU GINOBILI:   The deepest part of the bench have a nickname for themselves, I don't know if I'm allowed‑‑ ask Jeff Ayres, Baynes, or Cory Joseph.   They do have a nickname for themselves but us, the ones that are more involved and play, we just try to‑‑ we feel like we are part of the starters.   We are the same unit, and we really don't care that much about bench points against their bench points.   We just try to be the same core group as the starters and be an extension of them, not a different group.   
   
 Q.   Do you mentor, for lack of a better word, the other reserves that are playing?   You've been in this role for a long time, you are probably the leader.   Do you talk to them about how to approach coming off the bench?   
    MANU GINOBILI:   Sort of, yeah.   Sometimes the good thing about coming from the bench is that you can see what's going on and what you can do better, so sometimes we communicate on the bench on things that we have really got to bring when we come into the game.   I'm not the one that has to say if I'm a mentor or not, they should, but I try to share my experience and help the team when you are not making a shot.     
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT