NBA FINALS: HEAT v SPURS
June 5, 2014
Manu Ginobili
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.   You struggled last year in The Finals.   Do you think that you redeemed yourself coming out here Game 1?   You played well. 
    MANU GINOBILI:   I played a couple of good games last year, maybe not really well in the losses, actually pretty bad and that hurt me, of course.   I'm very happy to have played a pretty good game.   I felt that I helped the team win.   But at this point, we are the same exact spot as last year.   We are up 1‑0 and they always come back.   They always adjust well.   They have great players, so we gotta come back on Sunday and play even better.   Me, Tony, T.D., everybody. 

Q.   Manu, you guys had 22 turnovers, still put up the win, kinda similar to Game 1 against Dallas, you came back late.   Tony said you guys were lucky tonight.   Does experience in these games, does that help you through the end of the game tonight? 
    MANU GINOBILI:   It does help because we know we have an opportunity if we keep playing if we move the ball better.   If we don't turn the ball over that many times ‑‑ 20 in three quarters is very hard, especially against a team like them. 
    But, you know, experience is important, but it's not that we are playing against a rookie team.   This is the fourth Finals in a row for them, basically the same team.   So we are both very experienced.   We have both been through a lot of situations, and as Tony said, things happen. 
    We ended up with a win that was sort of unlikely after forty minutes.   Danny got hot, Tony made a huge three‑pointer.   Kawhi Leonard on the right wing.   So if you make six for six down the stretch, you are in a good situation.   If the best player of the opponent goes down, that helps you, too. 
    So we don't have to be very satisfied with this win.   Of course it's nice to be up 1 and not 0‑1, but we didn't play that well, and we're going to have to do it much, much better on Sunday. 

Q.   A lot of people thought Danny Green would not have a great series like he had last year.   Any comment on his performance tonight? 
    MANU GINOBILI:   Well, he sort of struggled for forty minutes, but he kept his head in the game, and he was the difference maker. 
    He made three huge threes, a dunk in transition.   11 points in such a short period of time really helps you.   And very, very happy with his performance, especially down the stretch, get us over the hump.   We couldn't really get up on the score and because of him we did.   Huge for us. 

Q.   I know you've played overseas a lot, you've played in the summer a lot, so I'm sure you're used to playing when it's hot.   But how hard was it to adjust mentally when you're not expecting it like it was tonight? 
    MANU GINOBILI:   True, it's a little different when‑‑ you didn't know what was going on.   At a point we would go to the bench and I would see cold towels everywhere and I didn't realize back then.   Then when we went to the locker room at halftime, whew, we were sweating more in the locker room than on the court and when we came back it was tough. 
    But, you know, it happens.   It's the same heat for both, and we did okay.   We moved the ball and I don't think we turned the ball over because of the temperature or the heat, so I don't think it was a big factor.   I don't know if LeBron's situation was‑‑ this was the reason for that.   I don't think we suffered as much.
    And for sure I play more years in situations like this than with AC on the court.   Not a big deal in that case. 

Q.   You guys obviously shot the ball great.   Aside from the turnovers and especially in the fourth quarter, how much of that was a product of good ball movement and shot selection? 
    MANU GINOBILI:   For sure it was good ball movement.   That was the reason why Danny Green was open so many times and he wasn't before.   We were a little sloppy moving the ball.   As we talked about, 20 turnovers in three quarters.   We were not that sharp.   So, you know, the fact that we moved the ball that well making silly passes, sometimes you think you're going to make a pass to the guy next to you and he's not fancy enough, and he's not cool enough.   But that helps because we rotate, get the defenses moving and that's why Tony got that three and Kawhi got his and Danny got three. 
    So sometimes we gotta think more about that, making a simple pass, moving on their defense, and it breaks easier on that aspect.   If we hold the ball and wait fifteen seconds to play a pick‑and‑roll, it's harder.   They are more athletic than us and stronger than us and the defense is pretty sharp.   







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT