NBA FINALS: HEAT v SPURS
June 4, 2014
Manu Ginobili
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   (Inaudible).
    MANU GINOBILI:   Never as close as that but it happens.   You work hard to get back in that situation, and we earned it, and now we're going to try to do just a little bit better. 

Q.   Can you learn anything from that, going through the last two games the way you did in Miami? 
    MANU GINOBILI:   Well, you learn about the opponent.   I think we did okay in Game 7, they just made a lot of shots.   Game 6 we played very poorly, they played very poorly, too, and we both got to that situation where the last shot, you know, it was like flipping a coin.   They made it, give them credit, shake their hands. You know, get together again and go for it. 

Q.   You seem to be a much better basketball team overall than a year ago, a lot of guys, including yourself, playing better.   Do you feel that way? 
    MANU GINOBILI:   Yes, but I think they are, too.   We said before, Dwyane is healthier, they are moving the ball much better.   Both teams are going and getting to know each other even more, so it's going to be a great Finals.   Both teams are doing really well. 

Q.   How is Tony doing? 
    MANU GINOBILI:   He's taking care of his body, he's trying to be ready for tomorrow, not for today.   But he looks optimistic.   He thinks he's going to be fine and we believe him. 

Q.   (Inaudible). 
    MANU GINOBILI:   Yeah, long time ago.   Again, we are already veterans, but it feels like a long time, and we really wanted to get back to this situation and try to win the trophy again.   Most of the guys on the team were not there.   Us three and Matt, I think, were the only ones, so we really want to get‑‑ to feel all that again, so this is a great opportunity. 

Q.   (Inaudible). 
    MANU GINOBILI:   Very similar to last year, every time you make it to the NBA Finals it's special.   After losing for the first time last year and now playing against the same team, you know, it's exciting.   We have another opportunity to go at it, and it should be that you never know when you're going to have it again, that opportunity.   We love it, we enjoy the challenge, and hopefully we do just a tiny bit better. 

Q.   Do you think starting the series at home will be more of an advantage this year?   
    MANU GINOBILI:   It helps.   I don't think it's, you know, huge when two great teams face each other.   I think it depends more on who is better, plays harder, smarter, maybe tougher.   But, yeah, the fact that we are starting at home and maybe starting with the right foot is an advantage.   





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT