NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: WARRIORS VS SPURS
May 22, 2017
Manu Ginobili
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Warriors - 129, Spurs - 115   
 Q.  Can you describe your feelings at the end with the crowd and the tribute?  
MANU GINOBILI: Pretty hard to describe them.  It was kind of emotional and overwhelming.  Yeah, I don't have a lot of words to describe it, but of course it makes you feel really well.  Feeling that type of appreciation, love, respect.  It's something that we all can appreciate, we all look for.  It's not that you go expecting it every step you make.  But when it happens in a situation like that and you receive all of that without expecting it, it shakes your world a little bit.  So it was great.  I really, really appreciate it.   
 Q.  You didn't just retire in Spanish, did you, Manu?  
MANU GINOBILI: No (laughing).  No, no, I haven't.  I haven't.   
 Q.  Just checking.  
MANU GINOBILI: No, I haven't.   
 Q.  Do you feel like as well as you played in the postseason, do you have enough left in your tank to play more?  
MANU GINOBILI: You know, for moments I felt like I didn't in the Memphis series.  This series I played better.  I felt more energetic, more needed, more useful to the team, so I ended up feeling better than the way I started.  But, yeah, I do feel like I can still play.   
But that's not what, you know, is going to make me retire or not.  It's about how I feel.  If I want to go through all of that again.  I just said in Spanish, but it felt like they wanted me to retire.  Like they were giving me sort of a celebration night.  And of course, I'm getting closer and closer.  There is no secret, for sure.  It's getting harder and harder.  But I always said that I wanted to let it sink in for three weeks, four weeks, whatever, and then I will sit with my wife and see how it feels.   
Whatever I decide to do, I'll be a happy camper.  I have to choose between two wonderful and truly wonderful options.  One is to keep playing in this league at this age, enjoying every day, playing the sport I still love.  The other one is to stay at home, be a dad, travel more, enjoy my whole family.  I have a wonderful family and spend time with them.  Whatever it is, it's two unbelievable options.  So there is no way I can be sad, because whatever I decide, it's going to be great.   
 Q.  You said in Spanish that it's an easier pill to swallow when you get beaten by a superior team than losing a tight game.  Can you expand on that in English?  
MANU GINOBILI: Well, it's the second time, I think, we've gotten swept in 15 years, and those have been the easiest, the easiest to digest because you've been overplayed.  The opponent was better than us, and in this case, way better than us.  So the games that are decided in the last second just because of mistakes, a lucky bounce, a bad call, or you dribbled the ball on your foot, those are the ones that you play over and over and over again.  When you lose by an average of 20 points per game in the last three games, you look at them in the eyes and say congratulations, man, you beat us fair and square.  You were better than us.  The easiest thing to do.   
I feel fine.  Of course, we had a tough break when you lose your point guard leader and your main scorer and player.  It's hard to go because it feels unfair.  I said in Spanish, you go to war with a bat.  You can swing, swing, swing, maybe you'll hit somebody, but it isn't fair.  They were so much better than us, so much stronger.   
So, again, we did our best.  We shook their hands, wished them good luck, and go back home to our families.   
 Q.  Were you surprised to get the start tonight, and when did you find out you were going to be in the starting five?  
MANU GINOBILI: He told me yesterday after practice.  I was surprised because it hasn't happened in a while.  But you could see Kawhi and Tony were not there, we had to play small against them.  We were a little more successful.  It wasn't that crazy, but, yeah, I thought Kyle [Anderson] was going to play again, but I guess he wanted to see me, to play me more minutes.  And coming from the bench is very hard to play 30 minutes.  So, yeah, I was a little surprised yesterday, but I was ready for today.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT