NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: THUNDER v SPURS
May 23, 2014
Manu Ginobili
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   I guess the first question is Ibaka is day‑to‑day and could possibly play in Game 3.   Does that surprise you at all?   
MANU GINOBILI:   Yes and no.   Surprised a little bit because they said he was out and that's usually what happens.   But considering the situation and during the Playoffs you want to make a push, and even if you're a player and you have a problem, you want to play.   I understand that aspect, so it's understandable for sure.  
   
 Q.   Does it change anything you guys will do?  
MANU GINOBILI:   Hopefully not.   We're going to try to do the same thing.   It's not that we're going to change the game plan for him.   For sure he's going to give them another big body that can be a presence in the paint, block shots and make some jumpers, but our idea would be the same.   
   
 Q.   You, Tony and Tim, being in different countries, playing the game in different systems coming up, how did you guys develop such great chemistry?  
MANU GINOBILI:   It just happened.   I think the most important part was just not be selfish, try to play for a system, don't let our egos be more important than the final goal, and just try to adjust to play with each other.   I think that was the secret.   Then the system, it was about Pop to make us all fit and have our moments, and we all during moments of the game have the ball in our hands and make decisions and feel important, so I think it was a combination of everybody trying to do good and create what we have created.   
   
 Q.   Had you ever played with a low post big man like Tim before?   
MANU GINOBILI:   Well, yes.   In FIBA, having a scorer in the post is a big advantage.   People normally think, okay, you're talking about scoring, but I don't think there has been a better post player in FIBA, a better player than him in FIBA.   Gasol and him in the last 10 years have been the most important bigs, and we play with him a lot, almost every possession.   So yeah, I'm kind of used to it.  
   
 Q.   You guys talk about history and all and not letting it repeat itself?   
MANU GINOBILI:   We think about it for sure because it happened recently, so hopefully we learn from that.   
The bottom line is that they just played better than us in those four games and they beat us.   Game 5 was the really close one where they made the key shots and we didn't, and that happens.   Hopefully we don't get to that point, and we play better in OKC where they beat us very well all three games.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT