NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: THUNDER v SPURS
May 20, 2014
Manu Ginobili
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How did it feel to get back on track last night and have a big game?
MANU GINOBILI:   It's always very important to start the right way.   We played a terrific game, so we are, of course, very satisfied with that.

Q.   What about yourself like through three quarters, it looked like maybe the slump was continuing.   Were you concerned that obviously you blew it out with a really strong stretch, were you fussing at all during the first three quarters?
MANU GINOBILI:   Not at all.   I didn't even have the opportunities to score a lot.   I missed two lay‑ups, but the team was playing great.   We scored 67.   Of course I always want to score more and play better, but it wasn't the issue.   The issue was that we had to be ready for the run they were going to make a run, and we had to stay focused, and if in the second half I get to make the shots, great.   If not, awesome.   It doesn't matter who.   We don't care. 

Q.   So by that token, I think you had 15 of your 18 in that last 15‑, 16‑minute window.   Was it a concerted effort by you when they did get close to‑‑
MANU GINOBILI:   No, not really.   It's not that I went into halftime thinking, well, now I've got to score.   I just play the game the same way always, and sometimes it happens that you make a couple buckets and everything opens up, and some other times I won't have the opportunity, I'll be denied, and somebody else will score. 

Q.   Tony just mentioned when you guys played Dallas they switched everything and it took a while for you guys to get a feel for that.   How much does that help you against OKC if they decide to start doing that? 
MANU GINOBILI:   I think for the most part when they did that yesterday, Boris was very good in the paint.   When we play teams that are small, it's great to have him because he can guard a small and post‑up in those situations, so he really helped us.   But we've done it against OKC.   We know they can do it.   Hopefully we attack the seams well, and if somebody helps, we find open teammates.   Yeah, probably the Dallas series, they switched a lot, helped us in case they do.

Q.   How much pressure did Tim take off you last night?
MANU GINOBILI:   It was very important, as I said yesterday.   When you see one of your main guys starting so well and scoring 20 in a half against a team that we always struggle to score against, it really helps everything go smoother.   He was terrific. 

Q.   Did he look 38?
MANU GINOBILI:   I said it last night, it's incredible.   For some games he can play 40 minutes.   I've never seen him stretch a muscle.   I don't know how he does it, but he keeps playing, he keeps scoring.   He keeps with the same face doing the same thing but so effectively and reliably.   He's a wonderful guy, really. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT