NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 18, 2013
Manu Ginobili
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.   You're very sincere with everybody, the players and everyone.   You go around and how does it feel to be so close, to be this close a couple of seconds from the championship, and now have to play Game 7 here in Miami? 
MANU GINOBILI:   Bad, very bad.   It's a tough moment.   We were a few seconds away from winning the championship, and we let it go.   A couple of rebounds that we didn't catch, a tough three by Ray, a couple of missed free throws, it's very tough.   A very tough moment. 

Q.   Manu, you guys seemed like you gave Miami your best punch.   Do you have another punch for Game 7? 
MANU GINOBILI:   We have to.   We don't think we played a great game, but we were in a great situation.   We had them where we wanted, very close game down the stretch.   Up two with two free throws and a few seconds to go, no timeouts.   We were in a great spot.   We just gave them another chance, and it hurts because it's one of those moments where you're going to be thinking about what we could have done better in the last few possessions so many times all night long, all tomorrow till the next game. 
So it's terrible. 

Q.   Manu, you guys have done all series long a great job of defending LeBron.   From the fourth quarter on tonight, was he different?   Was your defense any different?   Or was he just a more aggressive version of himself? 
MANU GINOBILI:   Well, he started to attack against one, two, and with his strength, it got difficult.   When you're desperate, that's what happened.   I think we did a good job.   He just made a couple of tough shots.   We were a little slow on the helps, and they got back in the game. 
It was a bad moment for us, but we took the punch, and we kept playing.   And we got back in the game and‑‑ you all saw what happened.   We were very close of winning it. 

Q.   Is he even more difficult to defend when Wade is out of the game and there's a few shooters in Chris Andersen in there, that same lineup that sort of made that run in Game 2 for you guys? 
MANU GINOBILI:   I don't remember what happened in Game 2.   But he's always hard to defend. 

Q.   Manu, you had that great game in Game 5 and you came back tonight with the eight turnovers.   Can you talk about the roller coaster ride and what contributed to that. 
MANU GINOBILI:   Roller coaster meaning today or the whole series? 

Q.   Well, from Game 5 to tonight with the eight turnovers. 
MANU GINOBILI:   Personally.   Okay.   Yeah.   I had a very good game last game, and today I just couldn't maintain it.   I was very insecure‑‑ well, I had a career high in turnovers in a really bad moment.   It really helps to make me feel terrible. 
Even with all that, we were so close of winning it.   So it's one of the many things I'll be thinking tonight. 

Q.   Can you also talk about Pop's substitution patterns.   Duncan out at the end of regulation and Parker at overtime.   Did you guys question those?   And just talk about them in general. 
MANU GINOBILI:   No, we don't question those.   He's got a great coaching staff.   He's a great coach.   And if he did those things, I'm very sure he thought about it and he got many great reasons to do it. 
The fact that he subbed Tony is he wanted size on the defensive end.   And when he subbed Timmy, it was probably to switch everything.   Believe me, he had many more reasons to make that sub than for any of you to question him. 

Q.   Manu, with the magnitude of the disappointment of this game, are you concerned that 48 hours isn't enough to bounce back in Game 7?   And how do you and Tony and Tim reenergize the younger guys on the team to be able to play in Game 7? 
MANU GINOBILI:   I have no clue how we're going to be reenergized.   I'm devastated.   But we have to.   There's no Game 8 afterwards.   We're going to have to play our best game, even better than today.   Shoot better, better defense, less turnovers in my case, but, yeah, there's no secret recipe for bouncing back. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT