NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 15, 2013
Manu Ginobili
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What will you pay attention to next game?   
MANU GINOBILI:   To many things.   We are in the NBA Finals, so we have to be ready for a lot of things‑‑ many that we made mistakes in in Game 4.   So turnovers and being a little more aggressive defensively.   I think we let them play too much.   
So those two things are going to be important.   
   
 Q.   You haven't really been in this position in the playoffs before, where every game is a must‑win.   How much more do you need this game before going on the road?   
MANU GINOBILI:   This game is huge.   We don't want to go to Miami knowing that we have to win both.   Going there to win one of the two is a different situation.   
So Game 5 regardless of where you play, it's huge for you at 2‑2.   We've seen it too many times.   We really want to win this one.   
   
 Q.   As competitive as you are, do you think you're putting too much pressure on yourself?   
MANU GINOBILI:   It's impossible not to put pressure on yourself.   You've been here.   You know you are not going to have many other opportunities.   It's not that before you didn't.   It's part of the job, and dealing with pressure is what we do.   We just have to do it better than Game 4.   That's the bottom line.   
   
 Q.   When Chris, Dwyane and LeBron are playing the way they did in that game, who needs to be stopped the most in that?   What do you guys talk about?   
MANU GINOBILI:   Of course that was the key of the game.   They made a lot of shots.   They played all through ‑‑ they played great.   So what that does is it doesn't allow you to make mistakes.   So you have to be close to perfect to beat them, and we were pretty far from that.   
So if they're having an okay game, we can make a few mistakes here and there and we can mask it.   But when they're playing like that, we just can't make mistakes.   So if we turn the ball over 18 times and we give them 20‑plus points out of that and besides late rotations, we didn't keep the pace up.   
So way too many things for us to get the win.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT