NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 12, 2013
Manu Ginobili
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Manu, you guys didn't respond the way you wanted to after you won Game 1.   What do you guys do tomorrow going into Game 4?   
MANU GINOBILI:   Can you repeat that? ‑‑  
   
 Q.   You weren't happy with the way you guys responded after winning Game 1 in Game 2.   What steps do you take going into Game 4?   
MANU GINOBILI:   It's really hard.   We can talk about it.   We don't know about it, but it happens.   And it happens to basically every team all over the world.   So we really have to fight it.   We've got to really picture the game as if it was Game 3.   That will be a huge key, because we know they'll be in a different mode.   So we have to match that up and play as aggressive as we did yesterday.   
   
 Q.   How impressed were you with Danny‑‑  
MANU GINOBILI:   With both.   With both.   Danny was having a solid game.   Reliable as always.   And he was incredible in the fourth.   I think he made four threes in the fourth.   
Gary was just outstanding the whole game.   Pushing the ball, finding his teammates, and really punishing their helps.   So the type of game they both had was incredible, and of course the main reason why we were up 30.   
We were playing a good defensive game, but what made us really good was their performance.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the importance of Tony Parker?   And if he's limited, what that could mean and how the team overcomes this.   
MANU GINOBILI:   Well, it's going to be difficult.   If he's limited, it's going to be hard, because we know we need his speed, his judgment, his pick‑and‑rolls.   Because after that, from that we create a lot of offense.   And if we don't have him or if we have him limited, it's going to be very, very difficult.   But we'll have to figure it out and find other answers.   
   
 Q.   How do you explain two blowouts after Game 1 was so close?   
MANU GINOBILI:   It's more normal than people think.   I still remember the 2005 Finals.   The first four games were basically blowouts.   We won both by 20 here, they beat us by 20 there.   It happens.   So we just‑‑ it's the best.   We don't care.   We have to face the next game as if it's going to be a really close one, as we expect, and deal with the next game.   
   
 Q.   When you see LeBron getting frustrated, is it taking its toll on him?   
MANU GINOBILI:   No, I'm not feeling frustration from him.   I think he's doing his game, he's trusting his teammates, as he always does.   And they're not shooting great from the outside.   
But to answer the question, I don't see frustration.   
   
 Q.   Cory Joseph, if he does have to step up, he did play 20 minutes last night.   But the confidence (Indiscernible).   
MANU GINOBILI:   He's a confident kid.   He really provides what Pop wants.   As I said before, one thing is just to play 20 minutes in a game where you know you are rolling and you have teammates making shots all over the place.   And another one is to go from scratch and play important minutes.   
It's going to be tough for him if Tony is not in great shape.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT