NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 9, 2013
Manu Ginobili
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







San Antonio Spurs - 84
  Miami Heat - 103

Q.   Manu, can you just describe the feeling of you and Tim and Tony as you were sitting on the bench in the fourth and discussing how to move ahead from this. 
MANU GINOBILI:   We haven't talked yet.   But of course the feeling is disappointment.   After having played a great Game 1, you don't want to come back and feel like this and perform like this. 
We had a poor game.   In the second half they just ran us over.   We didn't move the ball at all.   Their pressure really got us on our heels.   And offensively they just ran, they penetrated, they kicked it, they did everything they wanted.   So very poor second half and it's disappointing.   We are in the NBA Finals; you don't want to play like this for sure. 

Q.   Manu, given you all won Game 1, you got home‑court advantage, you don't have to come back here at all, you can win it.   Is there anything about this that's not surprising?   Maybe you all were prepared to take a split and be happy with that? 
MANU GINOBILI:   If you would have asked me before heading to Miami, I would say okay, I'll take it.   Winning one and losing the other by 20, not a big deal.   I'll take it.   But once you win the first one, you forget about that.   Odds are over and you face a new game as if it's a Game 7 and you want to win it, too.   Knowing full well that they were going to come hard, they were going to play a better game.   But we were expecting to do better.   So that's the frustrating part. 
Of course if you look at the result, being 1‑1, it's not bad.   But you don't want to play like this in an NBA Finals.   You don't want to give them that much confidence, and you feeling bad about yourself. 

Q.   Did the defensive game plan for the Heat change from Game 1 to Game 2, Manu? 
MANU GINOBILI:   Maybe.   There are some tweaks after every game.   I don't think their system changed or their general ideas.   We are who we are, and they are who they are.   They're not going to start changing completely who they are, because they are so successful.   They're good.   They just didn't play a great game in Game 1, and we did. 
So I think they just did better.   Maybe some little adjustments, but they did it with more aggressiveness, better hands, more active.   And they forced us to turn the ball over.   They run more.   So they did much better. 

Q.   Manu, this seemed to be a real big supporting cast‑type game with the Big Three for you guys struggling.   How much is that going to hinge on this series?   How much is this series going to hinge on the supporting staff of both teams? 
MANU GINOBILI:   I think they did very good.   We struggled.   So we are very happy for them.   We know that one of the main reasons why we are here is because they had a terrific season.   I think Kawhi grabbing 14 rebounds, Danny shooting 5‑for‑5.   That really helped us.   So for sure Tim, Tony and me we have to step up and play much better. 
We have basically no shot winning a game against them if none of us played good.   So we definitely got to step up and do better. 

Q.   For a good portion of the evening LeBron wasn't really in rhythm.   At the half he had four points, one rebound.   After three he had eight points.   What were you guys doing well?   And how did you kind of let him slip out of your hands in the fourth? 
MANU GINOBILI:   I think LeBron is the type of player where you have to pay a lot of attention to, and it's not something that happens that often that he scores less than 20.   But I don't think that was the difference why they beat us so badly in the second half.   In their run, it was Chalmers who scored.   We turned the ball over.   It wasn't just LeBron attacking us or getting those 13 points that you are talking about.   It was just the whole Miami team was killing us.   We couldn't get anything going offensively, and they got confident and they started to move the ball and rotations were late.
So it's not that he just turned it on.   It was Miami that turned it on. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT