NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 7, 2013
Manu Ginobili
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Did you hold back a little bit on your passing? 
MANU GINOBILI:   I think we all did a very good job in trying to find the easy pass first, the easy pass first.   In that one I wanted Matt to get a shot, so I thought nobody saw him on transition, so I probably took a little more risk.   But overall we were very cautious about that, and when they trapped, when they were hedging aggressively, we just passed it to the side the easy way. 
As I told you, we were focused on not turning the ball over.   But I didn't expect only four.   It's really hard to do.   So very happy with that part of the game. 

Q.   How amazing is it that Tony Parker could handle the ball as much as he does in the game and not have any turnovers at all? 
MANU GINOBILI:   Huge.   Huge for us.   Sometimes even if you are concerned about it and you think about it, you're just going to walk once or bounce the ball on your toes.   Sometimes it happens.   But doing what Tony did today, handling the ball the whole game for 40 minutes and not turning the ball over was remarkable.   We're going to try to repeat it. 
We know that four turnovers is really hard to repeat.   But keeping it under ten is good enough. 

Q.   Could you sense last night in the fourth quarter that the Heat were a little bit fatigued?   They talked about it after the game. 
MANU GINOBILI:   I didn't really feel it.   I'm not sure how they felt, but it's not that we thought okay, let's push it now because they are tired or they're going to pay for the seven games they play against Indiana.   I really didn't feel it. 
Maybe it did happen, but in the heat of the battle, it's really hard to sense that.   So I think we just played the game we try to play without thinking about them. 

Q.   Did you get a chance to see any of the replays of Tony Parker's shot last night? 
MANU GINOBILI:   Yes, that's the only thing I saw, I watched, actually.   Because I wanted to see how did he do it to get that shot off.   Having first Bosh on him and then LeBron without time.   I knew I was trying to run around him to get him an outlet, but yeah, I saw it again. 
It was an incredible shot, because how he waited, how he faked with half a second to go.   And stepped through and getting it off.   It was one of those shots that happens once in a while. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT