NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 6, 2013
Manu Ginobili
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  San Antonio Spurs - 92  
Miami Heat - 88  
  
Postgame Interview With:  
  
MANU GINOBILI  
   
 Q.   You guys managed to stay in the game.   I was talking to Coach Pop a couple of minutes ago.   It seemed like Miami was going to run away with the game.   Then you guys came back.   What can you tell me about your performance tonight?   
MANU GINOBILI:   I think we played an okay game.   We didn't play great.   I think we played better offense many times during the season.   But against them it's just different.   The way they rotate, being so athletic.   
I think that the most important thing we did offensively was not turning the ball over.   And that's something we talked about.   First play of the game turnover, dunk.   That's what they do.   
And the fact that we didn't turn the ball over really helped us.   They played most of the game five on five, and that's what we want.   So I think that was a big key.   And of course Tony's shot is one of those things that happens sometimes.   We got lucky today.   
   
 Q.   Manu, you spoke at shootaround how important Kawhi was going to be in defending LeBron James.   How do you think he handled himself on his Finals debut against the best player in the world?   
MANU GINOBILI:   I think he did very well.   Nowadays keeping LeBron under 20 is just like something that doesn't happen very often.   And Kawhi did a great job.   Of course, as I always said, too, it's a matter of having a block behind him, helping and rotating.   
But that was as good as it gets for one‑on‑one coverage.   Great job by him.   
   
 Q.   I was wondering from your vantage point what you saw on the Tony play where he's scrambling and falling and gets up and finally makes the shot.   
MANU GINOBILI:   I think we waited too long for him to play that pick‑and‑roll, and they are so good guarding that and helping and rotating and long arms on the ball, and he lost it twice.   So I was trying to just chasing him around to get him an outlet.   When he turned to the other side and threw it, I thought it was late in the play.   But going back to the game, in the timeout, they told me it was good.   
One of those things that could have been either way.   It was just so close.   But it was an unbelievable shot.   That was the game‑winner.   
   
 Q.   So you're saying there's no chance Pop puts that in the playbook then?   
MANU GINOBILI:   Probably not.   Probably not.   He had LeBron on him, and almost being blitzed.   So he really had to step through it and jump forward to be able to let it go.   It was an unbelievable shot.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT