NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 5, 2013
Manu Ginobili
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  MANU GINOBILI:   We're a different team.   We're not as athletic as Indiana.   But maybe we move the ball better sometimes or we shoot better. 
So we're a different team.   We're going to try to‑‑ we watched them and we're going to try to do things better.   Try not to turn over the ball like Indiana did in Game 7.   I think that if we give them extra time, we have no shots. 
So we have to take care of the ball and do what we do with our usual offense. 

Q.   You said a couple of days ago, the best of Manu is yet to come.   Do you feel like the opportunity on this stage is a chance to‑‑
MANU GINOBILI:   No, I'm feeling good.   I don't know if I'm going to play better than before or not.   I just know I'm going to help my team and do whatever I can.   If it's scoring, I'll try to.   If not, passing or defending.   Doing what all my teammates are trying to do.   At the end of the game, have one more point than Miami, that's what my goal is. 

Q.   This team really hasn't had a major free agent signing since the Big Three has been together.   Isn't it amazing to you that you've sustained the excellence of this team without bringing in a prime free agent? 
MANU GINOBILI:   Yeah, it is.   I'm not sure about the history of the NBA.   A team that's been so successful for so many years, qualify for the playoffs every time and maintaining 50‑plus wins is not something normal. 
You have to give a lot of praise to Pop and the front office because they always brought talent to surround Tim and Tony and me.   It's been impressive.   I'm really proud to be a part of all this.   Been 15 years‑‑ 14, 15?   And then being over 50 years.   Really remarkable. 

Q.   When you guys played during the regular season, what was your take on that?   Was it gamesmanship? 
MANU GINOBILI:   I don't know what happened.   It was very unusual what happened.   None of us three played here.   And Wade and LeBron didn't play in San Antonio.   It's something that happens sometimes.   I think both teams still played the same way they would have played.   So they maintained their idea and their type of play. 
But of course a few of the best players not playing, it's a completely different game.   So we're going to play each other. 

Q.   You know Pop, he's very calculating.   Even that far out he might have been thinking ahead. 
MANU GINOBILI:   I'm not sure.   What I do remember about the first game here is that we had been traveling a lot, playing a lot.   He thought that was the best idea looking forward.   I don't think it was planning on in case we play in The Finals.   I don't think it was like that. 
And the second game, everybody was ready to play.   For me I was hurt.   So he wasn't planning on that one.   Things just happen. 

Q.   Are you used to all this?   You've been to The Finals‑‑
MANU GINOBILI:   I was telling them I forgot how it looked and how it was, the podium.   Suddenly so many people around.   Then it came back to me.   And isn't the best part of the NBA Finals, but you get to enjoy it and to realize the importance of this event. 
It's incredible.   So very proud to be here. 

Q.   How much do you enjoy the challenge of going up against Wade?   And as you've watched him during the postseason, do you think he's maybe a player not at his normal level because of his knee? 
MANU GINOBILI:   I always say it's great to play players in your position.   No question that Dwyane has been one of the premier shooting guards in the league in the last nine seasons.   So it's a great challenge. 
But it's not that I'm here looking forward to play against Wade.   I just want to play Miami, and me being with the Spurs.   It's not just one‑on‑one.   It's just Miami against the Spurs, and I'm thrilled to have this opportunity because they've been the best team during the season. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT