NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: GRIZZLIES v SPURS
May 26, 2013
Manu Ginobili
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How challenging is it to close out an opponent on their home court and finish off a sweep?
MANU GINOBILI:   Very challenging, especially against a team like them.   They play hard.   I still don't know how we won Game 3, so it's going to be really difficult.   But we have an opportunity and we want to try to use it.

Q.   Does the way Pop manages minutes throughout the course of the regular season help you guys get through a game like last night?
MANU GINOBILI:   I'm really not sure.   It's hard to tell.   You don't have the‑‑ if we can play a season 35 minutes every game, then we'll know how we feel at this point.   But what I do feel is that if you're used to playing 25, then you play 28 and you get more tired.   You get used to that.   It gets us healthier and we've got a deep team, that helps, but I don't know how important it is.

Q.   Did you notice in the fourth quarter and overtime last night that you had some extra legs because of the time off?
MANU GINOBILI:   Well, I do, because I don't play that much as I told you.   So I rested basically the first half of the fourth quarter, and I had legs to close it in overtime.   I don't know how Tony and Tim felt.   But yeah, maybe we are a little deeper than them, and Pondexter fouled out, so they were a little short.

Q.   It's been six years since you guys were this close to getting back to The Finals.   Was there ever a moment where you think, hey, we're getting older, this may not happen for us again?
MANU GINOBILI:   Well, we're just one game closer than last year.   It's not like we're that much closer.   And I truly believed every single season that I played here that we had a shot.   So no, I always believe we have a good team, they manage every time to add talent and youth and to keep us fresh, and we've been doing a great job.

Q.   How does that trust factor figure in, especially in a game like last night, you get way behind, you don't panic?   You guys trust each other it seems like. 
MANU GINOBILI:   Yeah, we do.   It really looked ugly.   Maybe you are not optimistic at that point and you don't think this one is going to be a tough one.   But when you slowly start coming back, and it's not that we came back with crazy threes and crazy runs, but we slowly and steadily‑‑ then you know you have a shot.   We went to the locker room at halftime down four, so we knew at that point we were in a great situation.   But yeah, it happened slowly and we knew that we were down 17 but we had 40 minutes to go in the game, so it could happen.   They did it again before, they just couldn't finish it, but they did it.   So we were in a similar spot. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT