NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: GRIZZLIES v SPURS
May 22, 2013
Manu Ginobili
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about your foul.   
MANU GINOBILI:   Well, I saw the man was in trouble very far from the basket so I tried to go behind him to get it, just to try to get the shot off.   When I was going up I lost it, and then it was sort of a two on one, one against zero, and I tried to foul him.   I thought I had him well on the arm, so it was not like a dangerous play or anything like that, but I guess it was?  
   
 Q.   Were you surprised when they ruled it after the review, ruled it a‑‑  
MANU GINOBILI:   Yeah, I was.   I know I grabbed his arm, but I kind of hold him so‑‑ but I guess he fell awkwardly, and the refs‑‑ when you've got three refs watching on replay 1,000 times, I guess they make the right call.  
   
 Q.   Will you appeal it because you can‑‑ there's a scale of flagrants in the Playoffs that would get you suspended and whatnot.   
MANU GINOBILI:   That's the first one in a decade, so...  
   
 Q.   Did you hear the people making the comparisons about how you've made exaggerated falls in the past?  
MANU GINOBILI:   Comparison with what?   
   
 Q.   With what Tony did, how he fell and how exaggerated his fall seemed to be.   
MANU GINOBILI:   Even if you exaggerate a fall, once you watch it, like I said before, 10 times with three sets of eyes, then it's not a matter of exaggerating.   I guess I did too much of a hard foul and that was a flagrant.  
   
 Q.   Do you think it's fair that people have said you've made those exaggerated falls and maybe it's okay that he did it with you fouling him?  
MANU GINOBILI:   I don't think I do what people think I do.   It's a discussion that is never going to go anywhere.   
   
 Q.   In the fourth quarter do you think you took too many perimeter shots in the fourth?   
MANU GINOBILI:   To tell you the truth, I really don't know what happened.   We haven't watched video.   I didn't want to watch again last night.   
The feeling was that we stopped, that we were not as aggressive, that we didn't move the ball as well, and we suffered a little bit under pressure.   They were all over us.   It was hard to get anything done.   
But I really can't pinpoint exactly what happened.   Once we watch the video, now we have a few days, so I want to take a day off mentally.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT