NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: GRIZZLIES v SPURS
May 20, 2013
Manu Ginobili
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What adjustments do you anticipate the Grizzlies making?
MANU GINOBILI:   Well, they're going to play a better game.   They're going to be upset, hurt, and when that happens, the other team plays with a lot more emotion. 
We know they didn't play a great game.   We know they didn't play their usual defense, so we definitely expect them to be tougher and better. 

Q.   Early on were you surprised how many mistakes they made and how you were able to jump on them? 
MANU GINOBILI:   I'm not sure exactly how many mistakes they made early.   I know we played very well, and they were not very effective.   That is going to change; there's no team that is going to‑‑ a great team is not going to play bad games two in a row, so we've got to step up and do even better because we're going to see a different Memphis. 

Q.   They've been able to bounce back really efficiently.   What have you seen that allows them to be able to bounce back?
MANU GINOBILI:   Well, it's always easier to bounce back after a loss than maintain your intensity after a great win.   So we've got to know that and we've got to realize that's what happens most of the times, so we are in a tough spot now.   We won the first one, we did great, but we don't have to relax because they're going to be hurt, they're going to be upset, and they're going to want to reverse what they did.   So it's going to be a very tough game for us, and hopefully we do keep our mind and we do take the next game as if we are 0‑0 and the series is starting now.

Q.   What did you guys do so well that frustrated Zach?
MANU GINOBILI:   Not only Zach, everybody, because Zach didn't lose the game, Memphis did, and they are going to be hurt and they are a great team.   They play hard, so we expect that.   We expect it from everybody, not just from Zach. 
What we did on him, we did what we've been trying to do for five years.   Sometimes it works, sometimes it doesn't.   Of course we executed a bit better, but he just had an off‑night. 

Q.   Is this an easier task than the Warriors in terms of the depth?   Golden State had you guys out on the perimeter a lot more, more shooters, more options.   These guys, it's Marc and Zach. 
MANU GINOBILI:   They are a different team.   One is a perimeter‑oriented team with a lot of shooters, fast break, mismatches, and this is a pound type of team.   They are the best defense in the league, or one of the top three, and we don't expect to score 108 like I think we scored every game.   It's not going to be easy.   And for sure if they made it this far, it's because they are good.   They just had an off‑night, and we don't have to believe for one second that beating them by 20 means that we are so much better than them at all.   It's just one game, and history is done.   Now we've got to get ready for the next one with the same mentality as Game 1. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT