NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: THUNDER v SPURS
May 28, 2012
Manu Ginobili
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Did that fourth quarter rank as some of your best fourth quarters?  
MANU GINOBILI:   I've had some good ones, and I've had some really bad ones.   It was just another game.   Of course I am satisfied with the way we played, and because we overcame a 10‑point deficit 0‑9, it was just a good game.  
   
 Q.   You had Sefolosha and Harden on you.   It seemed like Sefolosha was pretty effective at times.   But when Harden was out there, you pretty much had your way?  
MANU GINOBILI:   I'm not sure.   I really got to watch the video.   I didn't watch that much.   Sefolosha is a great defender.   He's long.   He's used to playing good D on opponents.   He did a good job.   
But the thing usually against a player that plays a lot of pick‑and‑roll, see, it's not a matter of just one‑on‑one, it's a team defense.   So that's what you've got to focus more on.   How the big is going to help in your penetrations.   How the other three players are going to shift or not on their shooters.   So there are a lot of variables on every possession, actually.  
   
 Q.   It took you guys until the fourth quarter to get nasty, as Pop said.   Have you talked about the importance of doing that earlier in Game 2?   
MANU GINOBILI:   I don't think it's something you need to talk.   We are in the Conference Finals, and we believe that we have to be there every game if you want to make it.   So Pop was seeing that we were lacking that and he communicated in his way.   But it's something that we've got to do all the time, and that was probably the reason why we went ten down.   They were being more aggressive than us.   They were getting the loose balls, and we were turning the ball over a lot.   
So many things that were going wrong and in the fourth quarter, we kind of saw them.  
   
 Q.   Are the players aware of how that timeout has gone viral on YouTube and TNT and the highlight shows?   
MANU GINOBILI:   Not really.   I watched a little of the highlights after the game, and I saw it.   But since every question almost is being related to that nasty part, I guess it went viral.  
   
 Q.   Did anybody have the guts to kid Pop about that timeout at all after the game?   
MANU GINOBILI:   It's not something that hasn't happened all year.   We've heard that a lot.   Sometimes in the locker room, and when nobody else hears it and with different words too.   So we were not surprised of that.   But we knew we had to do it better.  
   
 Q.   So that one was almost tame?   
MANU GINOBILI:   I would, yeah, I would say so.  
   
 Q.   Stephen Jackson on this team first time around, what does he bring that's important to this team right now?   
MANU GINOBILI:   Well, he brings that edge, that nastiness that we need.   He's a great competitor.   Sometimes he's very passionate.   
But we need a player like that.   He took the challenge of guarding Durant and he did pretty well.   He made a huge shot down the stretch, and we know he's going to be there competing and doing the best he can.   So he's been a good addition.   He's still trying to figure it out.   It's a new role for him, but he's doing it well.   
He's optimistic, he's positive.   He's not being somebody that doesn't play much and stuff.   So it's good to have him.  
   
 Q.   Is there any awareness of the milestones that you're approaching and how you're on a streak in this league?   
MANU GINOBILI:   Well, when we are asked, we remember that we are on a great streak.   But we really don't care.   We are close.   7 games away to accomplish something.   So if it happens, it's happening, and it's fine.   But we always think about the next game and how tough it's going to be, the things we're going to have to do to beat them, and the thing that's we're going to have to improve.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT