NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SPURS v LAKERS
May 26, 2008
Manu Ginobili
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. As player when that first one goes down or the first two go down, does that help the psyche a little bit, mentally? 
 MANU GINOBILI: Definitely, definitely. Especially off the first two games I had. So I felt really good after those two and I had that feeling that it was going to be a good night for me. So, of course, making those first two helped.

 Q. Do you feel like you guys got enough easy looks, enough easy shots to the basket? 
 MANU GINOBILI: To tell you the truth, I haven't watched it. I just lived it. Sometimes when you just think that something happened, it really didn't. We got experience with that showing us. 
 But I think we were much more aggressive. We played more as a team, moved the ball better as I said before. And we help each other more. That's all a big thing in every team when we play as a group, not as five individuals.

 Q. What do you expect from them in Game 4? Obviously their bigs did not have a good night shooting the ball. Going into Game 4 might be a different situation for those guys. 
 MANU GINOBILI: For sure they are going to play even tougher. They are going to try to grab, hit even more and Kobe is going to go at it. We know it is going to be difficult. They are a great team. We all know that. We just accomplish one simple, small goal just to get to 2-1. Now it will be a huge one. Going 3-1 to L.A. will make it really difficult. So for us, it is going to be a huge game and, I guess, for them, too, they really wanted to --

 Q. Everybody talks about your defense last night but you held them to 84 points. Your defense was pretty solid as well?
 MANU GINOBILI: That's what I was trying to point out because regardless -- besides the fact that we shot 58 from 3, we held them to 84 points. Even with Kobe getting hot in the third quarter, making four 3s in a row basically. So defense was good. That's what we got to make a standard of. 
 Sometimes you are going to shoot 60. Sometimes you won't. But if we keep them between 80 and 90, chances are we are going to have a big opportunity.

 Q. Looked like maybe there were new wrinkles that kept Kobe from doing some of the things he wanted to do in this game in particular. Were you guys trying to work anything new in the defense?
 MANU GINOBILI: We tried to make things as difficult as possible for him, tried to change it up because he is such a great player. That if you guard him the same way for 48 minutes, he will find a way. So you got to change things up. 
 He still got 30. So we know the kind of player he is. As long as we keep everybody else in a normal game, we grab the rebounds and don't turn the ball away as much, we can expect it from Kobe. He averaged 33 the whole season. So it is a normal thing. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT