NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SPURS v LAKERS
May 25, 2008
Manu Ginobili
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. So, Manu, what are you going to do to improve your game Tuesday night?  
 MANU GINOBILI: I don't know. I mean, I'm not expecting to make all those shots in the first half. That really helped me today, but I just want to be as aggressive as today, attack the rim. I tried to help the team.   
 I was too stagnant in the first two games. I didn't feel like I was being me. So that's why I wanted to really attack the rim or play aggressively, especially first minutes I was there.   
  
  Q. Anything different for you in the last couple days in terms of just getting more rest, treatment on the ankle? Anything that turned anything around?   
 MANU GINOBILI: Nothing. I felt as good as in Game 2.  
  
  Q. Then what was the difference? Obviously there was a new spark for you tonight.   
 MANU GINOBILI: Probably we had a little more sense urgency because of the fact of being 2-0. The fans really helped me to get it going. I made the first shots. So there were a lot of things that contribute to have a start like that.   
 So basically that was the difference. I made the first shots. I felt good. And then it was easier for me.  
  
  Q. Manu, you made a lot of outside shots today. How explosive are you at this point when you do if to the hoop?   
 MANU GINOBILI: I started to feel a little better in the second half. I don't feel like my last step is as strong as probably a couple months ago, but it's not a big issue.   
 I mean, I think I can still finish. As I said the other day, it is not that I felt that much better than Game 2. I just played bad. I mean, I am not that good; I can play for bad for a game or two. It just can happen and was making too much of a big deal of it.  
  
  Q. How much more of a burden is there on you this year to provide scoring compared to previous years? It seemed like in the past, it always started with Tim. Now it is just as likely to be you or Tony having the scoring burden.   
 MANU GINOBILI: Well, yeah, I had a great season this year scoring, so if you score so many points during the season, then the team expects you to keep it up. And, of course, I was frustrated. I don't like playing like the way I played in the first two games, but it can happen.   
 So I'm just happy that today I turned it on and the that things went better.   
  
  Q. Can you kind of talk -- you obviously had a great year playing the reserve roll, coming off the bench. In the playoffs you kind have rotated back and forth. Do you like that role where you are not on the court at the start of the game and you get the come-on and the groove?   
 MANU GINOBILI: I said it many times. I really don't care. There are some games I really feel good and I like to play 40 minutes. There are some other situations where I'm not ready and Pop believes it is better if I stay between 30 and 32.   
 So sometimes we just need to change the face of the teams. And it's my role just to go back to the bench or go to the starting lineup. I'm just ready to help out regardless if it is from the starting lineup or from the bench.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT