NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SPURS v LAKERS
May 22, 2008
Manu Ginobili
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Are there days when your ankle allows you to attack more than other days?   
 MANU GINOBILI: Yeah, yeah. Again, it is not -- I'm feeling much better than the previous games here. It hasn't has been limiting me a little bit, but it is not an excuse. I could have done much better.  
  
  Q. Playing against Sasha for a few years, how has he grown as a player?   
 MANU GINOBILI: Well, he's kind of blending with the team. They are an aggressive defensive team. They buddy-up all the time and they also have Gasol waiting in the paint. So every time you go by him, you see big bodies. He is hitting their system very well and he is playing with a lot of confidence.  
  
  Q. Remember when got drafted he was a scrawny, scared-looking kid, and now he has come a long way.   
 MANU GINOBILI: That's what happens when you get opportunities. You get confidence from your teammates and coaching staff. So you develop easier. He's doing a great job.  
  
  Q. Are the Lakers trying to guard you more than the Hornets?   
 MANU GINOBILI: I think so. They are a team that uses their hands way more and are more physical. New Orleans is a great team, but they give you a little more room.   
 So sometimes that's good, sometimes it's not. We are going to try to get in foul trouble a little earlier and attack better.  
  
  Q. Manu, you don't like to talk about it, but there is almost panic back in San Antonio worrying about Manu Ginobili's health. How serious is this ankle thing? Is it going to affect you?  
 MANU GINOBILI: It's affecting me a little bit, but, again, it is not an excuse. I play with worse -- in the last game in Phoenix the last years was harder for me than today. It is something that's not leaving and I just got to deal with it.  
  
  Q. How encouraged were you by the way you guys played on the road, up 20? Can you guys build from that? Is the come-back something that's such a kick in the gut?   
 MANU GINOBILI: It is a kick in the gut for sure. But we know we had a great game for 30 minutes. It is never enough against a great team like them. It is not enough to go 30.   
 But we played great defense. We just were not smart enough down the stretch to calm things down, be more patient and attack the seams better. We were always the same speed, no change of direction, no good execution. Those things got to get better.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT