NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v SPURS
June 6, 2007
Manu Ginobili
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  (Talk about all the hype surrounding LeBron and the Cavs, while people don't seem to be spending as much attention on the Spurs.) 
 MANU GINOBILI:  We're not that kind of team.  We don't have any shining personalities.  We are kind of the vanilla of the NBA, so probably it doesn't draw much attention.  I think people still talk about us and respect us. 

 Q.  What would it say about Tim to win a fourth title? 
 MANU GINOBILI:  Well, even though he -- regardless if he wins it or not, he has been one of the fine players in the history of the NBA.  So I don't think it depends on the fourth, fifth or third.  I think he made a name for himself very clearly in all these years, an 11-time All-Star, or I don't know how many, but all he accomplished.  So I don't think it depends on him winning a fourth championship. 

 Q.  How do you feel going into these Finals instead of the previous two? 
 MANU GINOBILI:  I'm feeling great.  I've got that feeling that came earlier than the first two times, so this week was very long for us.  We can't wait to play again, but it's a great feeling, and it's always got that sweet flavor to it. 

 Q.  Can you talk about what LeBron has done for Cleveland?  Remember when you came in the league they were kind of at the bottom and he's just turned them around right away.  Your thoughts on how quickly he's been able to do that. 
 MANU GINOBILI:  It's kind of impressive, especially after all the pressure that everybody put on him.  He responded so well, not only individually but as a team, too.  He's special, so you've just got to give him credit because the guy is good. 

 Q.  You're going to send a lot of guys at him, Bowen and you and -- 
 MANU GINOBILI:  Yeah, he plays almost the same game and we don't do that.  We are going to be rotating and trying to change the looks on him.  But we know how good he is, so we are going to just try to limit him as much as we can. 

 Q.  You're obviously a streaky player out there.  When you get in those kind of streaks, do you go in and say, this is what the team needs now, or do all of a sudden you just feel hot and decide I'm going to -- 
 MANU GINOBILI:  No, it's not that I turn it on whenever I want.  It's not that easy.  But the team knows me, and they know that when I am in that kind of streak they're going to go at me and they're going to call plays for me, and I just try to stretch it as much as I can. 

 Q.  You guys may be the vanilla of the NBA.  What's wrong with vanilla? 
 MANU GINOBILI:  There's nothing wrong with it.  I think we all like it.  It's a good vanilla, it's not a boring vanilla. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT