NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: JAZZ v SPURS
May 28, 2007
Manu Ginobili
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Manu, can you talk about the end of the third quarter, you cut the lead, and what your team's mind-set was at that point and how did you get yourself going in the fourth quarter?   
 MANU GINOBILI:  At that point it was getting really tough for us.  They had a nice streak.  Fans were going nuts and they looked inspired.   
 I don't remember what happened exactly that kept us going, but I am very proud of what we did in the fourth quarter because it was looking ugly for us and we really stepped up and did a great job.   
  
  Q.  Manu, they're so physical and they have given you trouble in the fourth quarter of the last game.  What did you see that allowed you to, you know, just get to the rim?  Were you just that determined?   
 MANU GINOBILI:  It is easier to attack them when we move the ball, when we make a couple of passes, even if they are simple passes.  Those are good because they've got to closeout and it is easier to create a lead and try to go to the basket or draw a foul.   
 I think we moved the ball a little bit better, and when we took a 6, 8-point lead, they got a little frustrated and they started even fouling more so we were good from the line.   
  
  Q.  Manu, are you aware during the game the effect you have on the opposition, just getting under their skin, getting them off their game a little bit?   
 MANU GINOBILI:  I don't think I did too much to get into their skin in the first three quarters.  I wasn't being so aggressive or I didn't go to the rim as hard.   
 Then I just hit a three I think early in the fourth quarter and I started feeling better and that's where I felt it.  But I think everybody is trying to attack the rim, Williams does it.  Harpring really going strong every single possession, so I tried to do the same thing, play as tough as them.   
  
  Q.  It looked like you tangled a couple of times with Derek Fisher and it looked like it led to him and Sloan getting their technicals.  Do you take credit for them losing composure?   
 MANU GINOBILI:  I don't know why he got upset.  I can't recall doing anything for that to happen, but, you know, if that helps the team win and get a couple of easy free-throws, I'm ready to do it.  But, I guess, he got a little upset in the last couple minutes and made a couple extra fouls that really got us to the free-throw line and have a couple easy baskets.   
  
  Q.  Obviously you know Fabricio really well.  How much fun is it to watch him contribute the way he does, especially tonight and doing the dirty work?   
 MANU GINOBILI:  He has done it all season long.  Many times you aren't even going to realize what he does for us because we are going to see 2 points, 4 points.  He is always there fighting, doing the right thing, following instructions and hustling.   
 So Game 1 and Game 2 he was unbelievable.  Game 3 he didn't have the opportunity to play as much.  But in Game 4 today he was huge.  I am really happy tonight.   
  
  Q.  Nice night for Argentina.   
 MANU GINOBILI:  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  Just talk about the mentality you guys have to have now, especially trying to get over and get some rest.   
 MANU GINOBILI:  The mentality got to be the same -- exactly the same as the one today.  It was not -- what we did in Game 3 was not right.  It was not the appropriate fear that we should have had, but today we did it.   
 And so we got to stay humble.  We got to know that they're not going to give us anything.  If we are going to win Game 5, it is going to be because we played hard and we really fight through it and have a good game.   
 But we know these guys are not going to give us anything -- it is going to be another tough battle.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT