NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: JAZZ v SPURS
May 27, 2007
Manu Ginobili
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  What was the biggest thing that stood out in your mind between Games 2 and 3? 
 MANU GINOBILI:  The fact of playing at home, making plays is better.  They executed great.  They fought even harder.  We just kind of gave in to their pressure or aggressiveness.  It is something we can't allow ourselves to do.  We have to keep fighting.  If they beat us because they make a couple great shots and you can't make one, it is fine. 
 You can't allow them to just outwork you. 

 Q.  You say when you gave up, it is more out of frustration because of the way the game was tighter or more physical? 
 MANU GINOBILI:  Things were not going good for us.  They were pumped up.  They had a great second half.  We started thinking about the officials too much and getting frustrated, and that always is bad for you.  So we've just got to realize it is going to be the same way and we just got to keep fighting and keep playing like we were still 0-0. 

 Q.  Talk about Tim who had eight turnovers, very uncharacteristic for him.  Was that more out of what he was dealt with as far as frustration with foul calls or the great defense Mehmet was playing him? 
 MANU GINOBILI:  I really don't know.  We should ask him.  Of course he was frustrated because of the fouls and a couple of turnovers early in the first, second quarter he had.  He couldn't perform as well as usual. 
 But as I said yesterday, we can't blame him.  He gave us so much -- given so much this year, to have an off night, we've just got to perform better, everybody to do a little more.  We just didn't.  That's why they beat us like this. 

 Q.  What does history dictate the Spurs do after a game like this? 
 MANU GINOBILI:  Usually we are pretty good bouncing back after a bad loss and doing better.  But as I said, we can't rely on that.  We can't say usually after a bad loss we win.  We've just got to be very humble, work really hard and try to outwork them this time. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT