NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: JAZZ v SPURS
May 22, 2007
Manu Ginobili
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Manu, again another huge second quarter.  You kind of seem to be the spark, you were creating offenses.  Talk to me a little bit about that. 
 MANU GINOBILI:  That's what I always try to do.  Sometimes it doesn't work.  But it happened I made a couple big shots and then I got confident.  So that's my role in this team, try to come in and produce right from the get-go.  Today it just happened so I am glad for that. 

 Q.  It seems like tonight you had more success from the perimeter shooting the three-point shot.  Was it just more open or just a part of the plan going in? 
 MANU GINOBILI:  We shot well.  13 for 26 three-pointers, that's huge for us.  But a big key was Tony just getting to the paint and finding Brent, finding Bruce, Fin.  So that is going to be always very important against them because they are a tough team.  They always collapse the paint and they want to make you take tough threes or jumpers so we just make those shots. 
 That's why we were so successful. 

 Q.  Manu, you guys that big lead and we saw them creep back into it yet again just like Game 1.  Does that worry you guys at all, that you seem to have a tendency to let up when you have your foot on their throats? 
 MANU GINOBILI:  Of course we get a little worried.  I think we have done -- we had done a great job to get that 17, 20-point lead, but they are just a tough team.  They are never going to just let it go.  They are going to keep fighting, keep running, hitting and guarding you hard, blitzing and we just turned the ball over too much and they started making shots. 
 So it is the thing we've got to work on.  We had 23 turnovers.  Most of them were in the second half, so it is something we've really got to improve. 

 Q.  Despite being up 2-0, can you talk about going back to Salt Lake and how tough do you anticipate that being? 
 MANU GINOBILI:  Utah is one of the toughest teams to beat on the road, and it shows that they haven't lost a game in the playoffs, I think, at home. 
 So we don't have to get any -- we don't have to get overconfident.  We've got to stay humble because we just got what was ours.  We've got to do even better now to go and try to get one in Utah.  Hopefully we show the same approach, the same concentration. 

 Q.  Coming into the series, everybody thought this was going to be a series played in the 80s.  Have you been surprised it is has been as high scoring as it has been? 
 MANU GINOBILI:  I have.  A couple interviews before the series start, I said it would not be anything like Phoenix, we were not going to see many games over 100, but it is happening.  I think both teams have been really good offensively. 
 And Utah now is a different team than years ago, they are really good in transition and playing up tempo.  So we are getting more possessions.  We are making shots, too. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT