NBA FINALS: PISTONS v SPURS
June 23, 2005
Manu Ginobili
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Late in the fourth quarter, you hit the big three pass from Tim out of a collapsing-type situation, how did he see you or describe that play. 

MANU GINOBILI:  Well, he started to play really well, dominating, making a lot of field goals, so started to get worried about him and before he passed it to me, he passed it to Bruce and Bruce made another big three.  Then it was my turn and I think it was in that moment that we started changing the game and feeling more confident.

Q.  The little things that Tim did sometimes get overlooked, but what did it mean for you guys seeing him do the little things?

MANU GINOBILI:  Today he was huge, especially in the second half, little things like diving for that ball, dominating, as I said, and not getting blind about finishing.  Whenever he saw somebody crowding him, double-teaming or helping, he just kicked the ball and made it available to an open shooter.  That's what makes him one of best players in the world. 

Q.  Tim is such a quiet leader, do you think at any point that he felt that he had to go out and kind of silence his critics and prove again that he has the heart of a champion and he can lead his team? 

MANU GINOBILI:  I don't know if it was about the critics, I doubt that he knew that somebody was criticizing him, because he's not that kind of guy he's going to be worried about what people say.   But he always feels so responsible, he's so hard on himself every time he doesn't play that good, that I knew that sooner or later he was going to show up, especially down the stretch.  So that shows the character and the type of player he is, so I'm very, very proud to be his teammate.

Q.  You guys went from having slow feet in the first half to fast hands in the second, what got into you guys at the defensive end and was it something Coach Pop said at halftime or the energy of Game 7? 

MANU GINOBILI:  Yes, I think we stopped being ourselves in a moment in the third quarter.  We got too frantic, too in a hurry, and we were not even playing them five-on-five defensively, and that was a big key for us.  If we let them run and score in transition, we were done.  So when we start playing better D, then offensively, we move the ball and we run a lot, we started doing it much better. 

Q.  You're one of just less than a handful of people who have won an Olympic gold medal and now an NBA Championship in the same season, can you just sum up this amazing year you had? 

MANU GINOBILI:  Well, you summed it up.  It's just unbelievable.  It's not easy to win any of them, and I was able to be part of those two teams in one year, so being a part of the Argentinean team was an unbelievable feeling.  Today I'm too tired, it happened half an hour ago, but I bet in a month I'm going to feel the same way about this championship.  So it's been an unbelievable year, but, you know, this continues and we're going to try to repeat it. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT