NBA FINALS: PISTONS v SPURS
June 21, 2005
Manu Ginobili
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Manu, two questions.  You got a brief break about the seven-minute mark and came back about a couple of minutes later, did you have your energy at the end of the game did you think? 

MANU GINOBILI:  It was hard.  Of course I didn't have the same energy as in the first half, but still, I think that even with the energy that I had available, I could have done a way better job making decisions in the last five minutes.  So even though, of course, it's not the same energy, I am still very upset because the way I played down the stretch. 

Q.  Second question, relates to that, the final minutes, were you forcing too much, were you trying to do too much individually and as Pop said, not letting the game come to you?

MANU GINOBILI:  I think in the last two minutes, it's not the same as at the beginning where you can let the game come to you.  I think you just draw plays, you've just got to execute and be smart.  I think I didn't take good decisions on offense.  I made a couple of mistakes on defense, too.  So, you know, that's what makes one team win and the other lose.  That's what happened in Detroit, too.  We made a couple of great shots; we won.  Today, they did, we didn't play that smart in the last two minutes; we lost. 

Q.  Where was your team's defense tonight first of all, and second of all, do you think you guys shot like way too many threes and why can't you guys get more fast break points at home? 

MANU GINOBILI:  Can you go one by one?  I'm a little tired now and not that smart either.

Q.  It seemed like your defense was not there tonight, their three-pointers, and you didn't get too many fast break points. 

MANU GINOBILI:  I don't think we played that bad of a defense.  They just happened to make a lot of shots, many of Chauncey's threes were contested and he made them.  Rip had a great night, too, on the screens.  We played the same kind of defense in the other games.  It just happened that they made so many shots.  Then we played on the offensive side, as I said before, we didn't take the smartest decisions, because if we did, we would probably be talking about something totally different now.  About the fast break, it's not easy.  They are a very good team.  They go to the offensive board very hard.  So, you know, everybody is trying to get the rebound and by the time we get the ball, it's not that easy to get to the other side as fast.  I think we should try to get some easy buckets more against them, but, who knows if we are going to be able to.  I think I'm missing one. 

Q.  Three points; 28 three-pointers. 

MANU GINOBILI:  In the third quarter and in the fourth we took too many shots.  I think we should have put the ball a little more inside on Tim.  But, you know, many, many other games, probably the last two games we won because of those threes.  Today we relied on that too much and it was not a great night.  So we should have been smarter.  That was one of the parts of the game that we are a little upset, too. 

Q.  This team has not played a Game 7, but you've played in a Game 5 in the Olympic finals; will this help you for a game 7? 

MANU GINOBILI:  Yeah, now we've arrived to a point where it's similar, it's one game, but that history doesn't matter.  Home-court advantage doesn't matter anymore.  It depends a lot on the character of the players, how you respond under pressure.  And so, yes, I think I'm going to be ready, but, who knows, then probably you can have a bad game and you can't have one.  We just have to be there as a team, support each other and pass the ball.  You don't have to have a great night to play good D.  It has to be a team thing, very defensive and a lot of adrenaline going on. 

Q.  Late in the game, when you were driving the basket and Rasheed was able to step in and strip it, what happened on that play, and why do you think he was able to do that? 

MANU GINOBILI:  Because he's quick.  He's got quick hands.  He did it the whole series against everybody, against Tony, against me, against Tim.  It's something that he does very well.  So sometimes I'm going to be able to go finish and sometimes he's going to have to do the right play.  Just happens. 

Q.  You seem to be very hard on yourself at this point, the way apparently Rasheed was after his play at the end of Game 5.  What will be your approach to game 7 personally, more determination or do you -- is there a danger perhaps? 

MANU GINOBILI:  No.  I think I had the right approach.  I'm happy with the way I faced the game, I played, it just so happens I made too many mistakes down the stretch.  I'm going to try to be smarter and take better positions.  I don't think it was a matter of the approach.  I think we did that well.  They just had a great game, make a lot of shots, and that's it. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT