NBA FINALS: PISTONS v SPURS
June 18, 2005
Manu Ginobili
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. How much pressure or responsibility, I guess you could say, do you and Tony feel in having to get the offense going? 
 
MANU GINOBILI:  Well, probably the same as Tim and the rest of our teammates.  We are not the kind of team that we feel like somebody's got to step up to play better; we all feel that responsibility.  We all know that we all are struggling.  We didn't play well at all in Games 3 and 4, and that we've really got to step up.  And it's not a matter of getting it going on the offense and scoring or making more shots.  I think it's a matter of playing more aggressively, more determination, passing the ball and do the little things to make your team better.  So I don't think it's a matter of Tony scoring 25 or me scoring 25, something like that.  
 
Q.  I'm doing a piece on flopping and some of the Pistons even some of your teammates said that you have a reputation for drawing calls every now and then.  I'm curious if you take offense to that, if you admit to it and if so, what are the keys to selling the call?
 
MANU GINOBILI:  I don't know, I never had to talk about that.  I don't know, I just think that you've got to be in the right spot mainly, then if you -- it's not about flopping on -- it's probably more exaggerating a little bit, the call.  But, you know, you caught me off-guard.  (Laughter) I didn't expect to be answering about this.  I just play the way I feel.  I try to be in the right spot to draw a charge or something like that. 
 
Q.  I didn't mean it in a negative term, I just wondered if there's an art to it or something that players do, or why some players are more successful at doing it than others. 
 
MANU GINOBILI:  I really don't know.  You got me.  I don't know.  (Laughter). 
 
Q.  Does the two days off help decrease the pain in your thigh, and also, what do you make of Tim Duncan saying that it really starts with him, this team, this offense? 
 
MANU GINOBILI:  Well, yeah, of course, Tim is our main guy.  Everybody knows that.  But I'm not so sure that it starts only with him.  I think it starts with him, with me, with Tony, with Bruce, with Nazr and everybody.  This is a team.  Nobody is more guilty because, you know, score less points or didn't play so well.  We all got to help each other and the responsibility is with us.  It's a good thing that the leader of this team takes so much responsibility and takes it so seriously, but we all know that it's a matter of everybody.  And, yeah, about the two days off, it helps.  It helps.  I played pretty comfortable in Game 4.  It doesn't hurt me so much.  Game 3 was worse.  So my thigh is getting better, doing treatments and it's not going to be a problem for Game 5 at all.  
 
Q.  Robert Horry has said of the Detroit big men, they are too long and they jump too well.  What is it like trying to drive the lane against those guys? 
 
MANU GINOBILI:  Well, it's not easy to find a couple of big guys that are both long and athletic.  Usually one is slow or doesn't jump so high or well and you've got all three of them, because when McDyess comes from the bench he does it, too.  That's probably what makes them a great defensive team.  If you see one by one their personnel, it is not that they are the all-time best defensive team, but when you go by the first line, then you've got to meet one of those guys, and they are, as I said before, very long, athletic, and so they make things harder.  
 
Q.  Larry Brown has always preached playing the game inside-out and Popovich has bought into that big time.  You guys have all said repeatedly, it all starts with Tim, but with him limited in his scoring, what can you do to open things up inside?
 
MANU GINOBILI:  I think it's limited in the scoring because he didn't play well the last two games.  I don't think that any of the big men in this league can really limit him to ten or 14 points.  I mean, if he's coming into a game, he's going to score.  So, I'm not so worried about that because I know that he's going to step up.  But it's hard for us of course, when we are used to, during most of the season, to give him the ball and draw double-teams and things like that.  But I think we did try to stop it in 1 and 2, but we moved the ball better anyway, and we were able to go to the hole better, things that we usually do and that we didn't do in the last two games.  I'm not so convinced that it's only Tim's responsibility.  It's about Tim, Tony, me and everybody. 
 
Q.  Forget the responsibility for a moment, just in terms of concrete things you can point to, what do you do to create more opportunities in the paint? 
 
MANU GINOBILI:  Move the ball better.  It's way easier to penetrate when the ball has moved from one side to the other than when somebody is holding the ball and waiting to penetrate.  If we put the ball inside, even if it's not in the paint, when it comes up and you revert the ball, when you create movement, it's always easier.  So that's where we have been making mistakes.  We hold the ball too much off the dribble, on a pick-and-roll, and we forgot to move the ball, and we are much better when we do.  
 
Q.  Talk a little bit about some of the positives you've been able to take out of these last two games. 
 
MANU GINOBILI:  It's kind of hard.  I really can't think of something that we did as planned.  We played well for a couple of minutes and then we stopped; another two or three minutes and then we stopped, I think one of the good things I saw was Devin came back, played well, and confidently, and we needed him.  But besides that, I don't think we played good in any aspect of the game.  Probably the five-on-five when they stopped, we guarded pretty well, but we let them run too much, offensively, second-chance balls and things like that.  So I can't think of anything, no.  
 
Q.  I'm wondering to see if you can just reflect individually on your first two games and on your last two games. 
 
MANU GINOBILI:  Sorry?  
 
Q.  Just wondering if you can reflect just individually, not as a team, but individually on your first two games and your last two games. 
 
MANU GINOBILI:  It was really the opposite thing.  In the first two games I was able to go to the basket more, draw some attention and keep the ball and I've been committing too many turnovers in these two games.  As I said before, that was one of the main mistakes that the team did.  But besides that, I think I was kind of, you know, kicking our heels like the whole team did.  Their pressure limited us, and we stopped.  We cannot stop playing, so we've just got to be very aggressive, keep moving the ball and attacking the same we we did in the first two games.  
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT