NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SPURS v SUNS
June 1, 2005
Manu Ginobili
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  They tried very hard tonight to make shooters out of Tony (Parker) and you and -- how much more difficult did that make it for your game?

MANU GINOBILI:  It was difficult because we didn't want to take the first shot available, try to first penetrate and once the ball got in-the-paint, kick it out.  So there were not many opportunities to go and finish in the rim.  That's why we had to adjust a little bit.  Tony found himself with so many open shots, but he didn't want to take them all, so he was probably the key the game in the third quarter when he made those three in a row.  It was really hard for us to find room there.

Q.  You guys started out pretty close at the halftime and you held the Suns, the Suns were 2 for 15 when you guys went on your run.  Was there defensive adjustments that you made at halftime or poor shooting or combination?

MANU GINOBILI:  I think in the first half we were too much in a hurry.  We were getting too many quick shots, we were getting too nervous with the rest of -- and for outside things.  In halftime we talked a lot trying to calm down, play smarter, go back in defense instead of complaining.  And I think that was the whole thing, be more patient on offense and come back on defense.  That's what we try to do.  In the first half, for whatever reason, we didn't do it.

Q.  Talk about the determination you guys had, a lot of guys coming over early getting some work in early, Tony (Parker) and Tim (Duncan), not usually here, 45 minutes ahead taking the first bus, was it we're going to end it tonight?

MANU GINOBILI:  Yeah, that's how Tim is.  You don't see that so often in Tony, but whenever Tim has a bad game, he puts so much pressure on him, he feels so responsible what happens on the team, that yesterday morning he went to shoot, by himself, shooting free throws and working hard.  He came earlier today because that's how he does it all the time.  I was sure it was going to have --  was going to have a great game, he was going to play better; the same with Tony (Parker), Tony, the same as Tim probably is contagious, so he knew he didn't play well in Game 4 and he wanted to really finish this series and play better. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT