NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SPURS v SUNS
May 23, 2005
Manu Ginobili
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  The NBA talks so much about wanting to go global.  You guys are a great example with that with all the international players.  What is it like in the Spurs locker room with all those different cultures and what they represent?

MANU GINOBILI:  I haven't been on that team without foreigners.  There's been a lot from all different countries, different cultures, languages, so for me it's natural.  I know that -- whenever Pop thinks there's a talent or somebody that can collaborate, he's going to bring him.  I am proud that he trusts us.  He really gives Tony and me or Rasho and Beno a lot of responsibilities so we're very proud of that.

Q.  Does it make it more interesting representing all these cultures?

MANU GINOBILI:  For us the ones from overseas, it is better because we all know each other.  We know what we have been through, the European leagues, the world championships, that kind of thing, so it helps understand each other better.

Q.  The French Open started today.  Which will be played bigger, the NBA with you in it or the French Open --

MANU GINOBILI:  Yeah, I know it starts today.  Argentina is doing amazingly good in tennis.  I still can't believe it with the organization and the support that the country has in sport.  I am very proud and happy for them.  I wish them the best.

Q.  Where does that put you in sports, tennis will be played over basketball?

MANU GINOBILI:  I think people like following Argentinians overseas a lot in Argentina.  So whenever there is an Argentinian playing either Soccer Finals in Europe or an important tennis tournament or the NBA Conference Finals in this case, they are going to follow all of them. 

Q.  Are you proud that this team has had success with international players (inaudible)?

MANU GINOBILI:  I really don't know what is the key.  I think we all are players, doesn't matter where we come from.  We're one, the same for the team.  Pop is very clear on what he wants, so we just follow orders, so I don't really think it is because of the international flavor or -- it is just because of the common goals and unselfishness and things like that. 

Q.  Phoenix newspapers came out and had nicknames for all the Spurs.  They called you "Blooper" (phonetic)?

MANU GINOBILI:  Thanks.  I really appreciate it (laughs).  Good for my reputation.  That's what I have been hearing the last three weeks.  Nothing to say about it.

Q.  What would your nickname for yourself be?

MANU GINOBILI:  I like Manu.  I like that.

Q.  How much fun did you have yesterday not getting beat up --

MANU GINOBILI:  You have more fun around.  You get more tired because you got to be so worried about coming back because you know what happens if you are playing in defensive transition.  Jim Jackson came with four threes.  Marion can do the same, Richardson can do the same, Joe Johnson, if he comes back.  So you have got to be very aware of those guys sprinting.  Or even Amare.  Sometimes I am going to be guarding Amare because he leaks out and he's really fast and strong.  So we know that's the big key of the series, transition defense.

Q.  You don't waste any time getting back down the floor too?

MANU GINOBILI:  Of course not, no.  We know probably on the 5-on-5 set we're more used to playing like that and we put the ball inside and then outside, we create more game.  I think that if you let them run the transition, will fast break, you are dead. 

Q.  Do you feel like maybe that the Suns did going into the fourth quarter, they blinked and that was enough to give you that open?

MANU GINOBILI:  I think they needed those easy points that they didn't have, so once we put them to play 5-on-5 it is harder for them because they really want to go up and down, so they are always of course very worried about Tim and when they start double-teaming, Brent Barry had open shots then Tony had a lot of penetrations, that makes the game easier for us.

Q.  Only 6 fast-break points allowed yesterday.  What do you --

MANU GINOBILI:  They are going to be very concerned and very focused on doing that so we have got to be even more focused and not letting them do it.

Q.  What do you expect from them tomorrow overall?

MANU GINOBILI:  Even more desire, more determination.  They know they are going to have a lot of pressure to win that Game 2.  So we have got to be smart, play very patiently, if they score -- they have a 10 or 15-0 run on us, we just got to keep playing the same way because they are going to try to involve the crowd, whatever teams at home do.


End of FastScripts...`            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT