NBA FINALS: HEAT v SPURS
June 14, 2014
Manu Ginobili
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Is there a part of you that is amazed by how dominant the last two efforts have been for you, how dominant the wins have been?   
MANU GINOBILI:   Yeah, of course we didn't expect to win both like that.   But we hoped and we worked hard to try to get one like that.   
But, yeah, we played at a really high level, so very happy with what we did already, but it's over.   Now we've got to try to play Game 5 now the same way.  
   
 Q.   Do you think this team is a better conditioned team than Miami?   Some of the pundits are saying that just by the fact that they've seemed tired at times and you all have this boundless ability to sustain a high tempo and not seem to get tired.   
MANU GINOBILI:   I don't know how they are.   I'm playing, and I'm part of my team, and I know how we are.   We're just trying to move the ball fast, move from one side to the other, rotate the team, and we are doing it well.   I don't know about them?  
   
 Q.   Manu, there is a lot of speculation that Tim, Pop, and yourself will call it a career.   Would you like to squash that?   
MANU GINOBILI:   You have no data to support that.   You haven't talked to any of us to support that.   It's just irrelevant at this point.   We are focused on the next game.  
   
 Q.   (No Microphone)?  
MANU GINOBILI:   In my case not that much.   I faced every season the same way.   If we win it, if we lose it, losing the first round, I love doing what we do.   You love it more and you do well if you win.   
So in my situation, I didn't really take the season thinking of, oh, we have to have a revenge because of the way we lost it.  
   
 Q.   You've got a new addition at your house.   Father's Day is coming up tomorrow.   Does having young kids back at home kind of give you perspective while all this is going on in the Finals?   
MANU GINOBILI:   Yes, completely.   They have no clue where we are playing, what we are doing and going through, how much we are playing for.   They are just kids trying to have fun with their dad and enjoy their time.   They don't even know about Father's Day.   It really helps me in the time off.   Then by the time the next game comes, you just focus and try to do the same, your job, basically.  
   
 Q.   Does a young kid at home make it difficult to try to sleep at night?   
MANU GINOBILI:   Not in my case.   I'm lucky to have a big house.   I have a great wife that takes them to sleep somewhere else and respects my sleeping patterns a lot.   So I'm very lucky in that aspect.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT