PACIFIC-12 CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 5, 2015
Niya Butts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.   We've got the Arizona Wildcats, Coach Niya Butts, Candice Workman, and Breanna Workman.   Coach, an opening statement? 
COACH BUTTS:   Obviously I want to thank these two young ladies to my right.   Candice, who is a senior, who will be leaving us, I appreciate everything you've done for us and done for this program.   Brea, obviously you've got a little more time left, but you work hard, you're a grinder, and I appreciate what you do. 
Obviously the season didn't turn out the way we wanted.   This game didn't turn out the way we wanted.   Want to make sure I give credit to UCLA for coming out and playing a great game and doing the necessary things it took for them to win.   But at the same time, I share with our team, I'll say the same thing to you and the media, I want our players to know, I don't want you guys to hang your head, because in this thing it's about opportunities, and that's what life is about.   Life is about opportunities, even the ones you miss.   Sometimes it's like that.   But you've got to be able to push on and continue to grind.

Q.   This is for everybody, what about UCLA's 2‑3 was disruptive? 
COACH BUTTS:   Oh, boy, it slowed us down a little bit.   We felt like in preparing for it that we can get open looks in it and get into the gaps a little bit.   But they were able to slow us down.   We missed shots, but we got a lot of rebounds, we just didn't capitalize on those rebounds like we should have. 
So, certainly, credit to them for doing a good job and staying with it.

Q.   Coach, talk a little bit about what you just told your girls in the locker room at the end of the season? 
COACH BUTTS:   Just obviously we're all disappointed, disappointed in this last game.   But I told them not to focus on the negatives.   Focus on the things that we didn't do well, focus on the things you did well, especially to you're seniors.   I want them to know that life is about ups and downs and you need to have perspective. 
Again, we're blessed.   We have great opportunity as coaches, as players, as members of this great conference, and it's about those opportunities.   A lot of people don't get them, so we want to make sure that we keep life and this stuff in perspective as much as we can.   But understand for those that are moving forward and for those that are returning, you know, we have to make sure that we get ourselves ready and we're better prepared next year. 
Thank you very much, and look forward to seeing you around. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT