UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 15, 2018
Brandon Wimbush
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Notre Dame - 22, Vanderbilt - 17
Q. Last week you said you gave your performance a D, D-plus after Ball State.  How would you grade your performance today?
BRANDON WIMBUSH: I learned from one of our own in our building who played here to not give grades as a quarterback.  So I'm going to hold back on that.  But I thought the offense performed today, you know, how we wanted to perform today.
Q. How was the feeling after today's game?  You said last week wasn't good.  What was the feeling after today's win?
BRANDON WIMBUSH: It's much better than it was last week.  I think as an offense we really fought play-in and play-out.  So I guess we executed how we wanted to execute today, and we feel good coming away from it.  And there is so much more to learn, so we're excited for that.
Q. This is the third week in a row with that opening drive you had right down the field.  What kind of comfort do you have with the scripted plays that were rehearsed during the week?
BRANDON WIMBUSH: Yeah, as I said, week one you run those opening nine three or four times throughout the week.  So you do get comfortable with those looks, and, you know, your progressions throughout those reads.
Obviously, the offensive line does a good job of preparing themselves through running those plays to give us good looks and pick up good yards and drive down the field.
Q. Is there something that could be gleaned from the comfort with the progressions and how the line jumps out right there that could be applied more to the next three and a half quarters?
BRANDON WIMBUSH: No, just got to keep the same energy, understand that we've ran through so many of these plays throughout the week and we have to just execute them.  Like I said, keep our foot on the pedal all four quarters.
Q. How would you rate the offensive line?  I'm not going to ask you to grade them, but how would you rate the offensive line's play today?  Do you feel like they improved?
BRANDON WIMBUSH: I do.  I feel like they improved day-in and day-out, and I think they take it upon themselves to put me in the best position to make me feel good back there.  So those guys really care about me.  And obviously, when Ian goes in they care about Ian.  So, like you said, they improved.  I thought they improved today.
Q. And I know that Coach Kelly said you and Ian have bought into the kind of quarterback switches when they happen, but just from a pragmatic standpoint, how difficult is that to come in and out?  How do you get yourself so that when you come back in, you're back in a rhythm?
BRANDON WIMBUSH: I think it's only like two or three plays at most.  So Coach Kelly is right, I think we both bought into it, fully bought into it whoever, however, to get a W, we're going to do it.  Obviously, worked today, so we're excited.
Q. I think people will be surprised that you're happy with how the offense executed because not a ton of points.  Was that Vandy's defense or what do you think?
BRANDON WIMBUSH: I think they're an SEC defense, and they have personnel that is going to match up with a lot of offenses.  Those guys are on scholarship too, and they prepare.  They practice all week, they watch film.
But for the most part I think we did what we wanted to do.  Maybe not execute, but I think we came out and we fought hard.  We started strong.  We started fast, and I think we finished strong.  So that's been an emphasis this week, and I think we did that.
Q. I guess regardless of whether it was a maximum performance or an improvement, how would you sort of describe the identity of the offense right now, and what would you think the biggest next step is for you guys?
BRANDON WIMBUSH: I think it's still out there, honestly.  I think we're still forming that identity.  Coach Kelly came up to me and said, you know, week three is the time that you kind of form that identity, and I think just looking back on the first three weeks, I don't think there's something we can kind of hang our hat on yet.  Maybe that's a good thing, maybe it's not.  But as we practice more and see who we become, so I'm excited for it.
Q. Is a lack of identity, good, bad, indifferent, doesn't matter?
BRANDON WIMBUSH: Three wins.  I don't care (Inaudible).
Q. Brandon, I know you're not the one that threw in the touchdown, but to see Nick Weishar grab that T.D., what can you say about him as a leader and how excited maybe the whole sideline was to see that?
BRANDON WIMBUSH: Every time he catches the ball you see the rest of the sideline get so riled up.  It's awesome to have a fifth-year guy who came back and wanted to contribute to more than just winning football games, but to the community and such a bigger picture for Weish.  We're excited for him.  Whenever he gets the ball or wherever he's targeted, he typically catches it and makes a great play, like he did today.
Q. What does he mean to the culture of this team?
BRANDON WIMBUSH: Like I said, he came back, and you know, obviously it was his own decision to want to contribute and to want to lead by example, and I think he's done a great job of doing that.  Young guys are able to follow his lead.  He does everything the right way, so obviously he produces, like I said, when he's targeted.
Q. You ended up running a lot more in this game than you did last week.  Was that part of the game plan for you guys this week to have you run the ball more?
BRANDON WIMBUSH: I think so.  I think I had to use my feet more than I did last week.  It's one of my weapons and it's deemed effective when we're playing teams.  So I think running lanes were there for me, and I had to take advantage of that.
Q. Being able to be that versatile, does that help you guys game plan better?  Do you feel like you have an advantage knowing you can run the ball when necessary?
BRANDON WIMBUSH: I think it's an advantage.  I think if you're smart when you run the ball and protect yourself, and know when to run the ball and when to not run the ball, I think it can be used to the offense's advantage.
Q. Not just you specifically, but Tony ran for 118 yards as well.  How different is this offense when you're able to have success running the ball?
BRANDON WIMBUSH: I think it opens up a lot more.  Obviously, it's a cliché answer, but I think the run game opens up play action, opens up regular passes.  It kind of -- they'll stock the box, and I think things on the perimeter become more viable for us to attack, and we'll keep improving and getting better at the run game.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT