UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 2, 2017
Brandon Wimbush
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Temple - 16, Notre Dame - 49   
 Q.  Just with your first start behind you, was that experience everything that you expected it to be?  Did anything surprise you?  
BRANDON WIMBUSH: I don't think anything surprised me.  I think it was definitely what I expected out of it, my first start.  Coming away 1-0, that's the only thing you really can ask for, especially week one.   
 Q.  You talked last week about wanting to sink the alma mater after the win.  What was that feeling like in that moment?  
BRANDON WIMBUSH: I didn't stop smiling during that alma mater, just to hold on to the guys, I think it was Durham and Devyn, just to be able to experience that and have the opportunity to lead this offense and singing the alma mater was a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity.   
 Q.  Extending plays is a big part of your game.  What's your approach as far as protecting yourself, getting down?  
BRANDON WIMBUSH: I have to get down a little bit more than I did today.  But I'll learn.  Obviously I learned today.  Took a couple shots.  I wanted to get hit.  That felt really good for me.  I've got to be smarter a little bit and you know, slide when the opportunity presents itself.   
 Q.  How are you feeling physically, coming out of that?  
BRANDON WIMBUSH: I'll be sore tomorrow, but right now, I'm great.  I'm in a great place right now, physically, mentally, emotionally.   
 Q.  You guys had over 400 yards rushing today, how did that open things up for you and make it easier in your first start?  
BRANDON WIMBUSH: That offensive line is pretty special.  I don't know how many offensive lines there's been like this one at this university.  I know there's been some great ones and some great guys but this unit I think is really special.  They have worked their tail off.   
And then you have three of the best backs in the country to me, Josh, he's hurting's little bit.  You bring in Dexter; you bring in Tony.  They all produce the same production, have the same production.  So there's no falling back and all those guys have been great.   
 Q.  How much did it help hitting that first big pass on the very first play?  
BRANDON WIMBUSH: Yeah, that was good.  That was great, actually, just to get my nerves, and then Six made it easy, ran a great route for me.  Comeback later in the game, they adjusted to it.  We run a similar to it and the corner sloughs off, and that's just learning experience for myself and we'll go back and evaluate that.  Yeah, that first play was huge for my confidence.   
 Q.  How much did it help the second team to score a touchdown?  
BRANDON WIMBUSH: Yeah, we've scored, the last couple times we've had outings in the stadium.  You guys have seen that we've hit big plays the first couple of play, the first drive, and then we were determined to come back out and have a second strong drive consecutive.   
But yeah, the second play was Josh.  He opened up and it looked good to see him go hit that run.   
 Q.  And just a 100-yard rushing game --  
BRANDON WIMBUSH: For myself?   
 Q.  For yourself and to have two teammates do it, too.  
BRANDON WIMBUSH: Yeah, that's special.  That speaks again to up front and coach Harry, he's done a great job with those guys, man.  You don't even have to run to the left side behind big Q and Mike.  You have Hainsey and Tommy and Bars and obviously Sam controlling the right side.  They have all done a great job.  But to have three of those guys, three guys hit a hundred rushing yards, obviously speaks to their dedication up front.   
 Q.  Just kind of your thoughts on what this shows the country that you guys are capable of.  
BRANDON WIMBUSH: There's film now and obviously there's a lot to evaluate and get better on.  But 24-hour rule, we're going to enjoy it now.  The country has seen what we can do, and I think there's so much left in our pocket now that they have seen only maybe a third of what we are capable of.  I'm excited to see this offense really flourish over the rest of the season.  So I'm looking forward to it.   
 Q.  You guys were perfect in the red zone.  What -- I know you weren't running the show last year but to be six for six, what has changed in approach and what is coach long's role in that?  
BRANDON WIMBUSH: Just our mentality when we get down there.  He's hard on smelling the end zone while we're down there, and I think that speaks, again, to the guys up front.  I think we ran it in every time we were down there.  Those guys are just plowing the defensive linemen back and it's awesome, because those guys, the running backs, are all right, we have to do this; we have to get in here right now.   
To be six for six, that's a great stat.  I didn't know that.  I'm really happy about that because we've been harping on that for the past eight months.   
 Q.  Coach Kelly says that Nic Weishar just keeps catching the ball in practice, so you feel pretty confident throwing him the football?  
BRANDON WIMBUSH: I feel pretty confident throwing all the guys the football.  All the tight ends have done great.  Obviously Nic came up with a couple big plays when we needed them.  He's made some tremendous catches and sometimes I've got to deliver him a better ball.  But all those guys will lay their bodies out for me and go catch the ball.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT