UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 16, 2017
Brandon Wimbush
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Notre Dame - 49, Boston College - 20   
 Q.  When is the last time you rushed for more during a game than passed for more yardage?  
BRANDON WIMBUSH: I don't know, I couldn't tell you.  Maybe it's never happened.  Maybe it's the first time.   
 Q.  Was it one of those games that just happened to just go right?  
BRANDON WIMBUSH: You've just got to find a way to find something that's working for you, and it happened to be my feet during this game.   
 Q.  Four touchdowns rushing; have you ever done that before?  
BRANDON WIMBUSH: Never, so that was a record of my own.   
 Q.  Feel good?  
BRANDON WIMBUSH: Feels good, yeah.   
 Q.  What do you think you need to fix just kind of in the passing game and connecting with your receivers better?  
BRANDON WIMBUSH: Obviously there was some -- there were some miscues in the passing game, and man, I really want to get those guys the ball because I have so many playmakers.  I feel bad, and I take full responsibility of not making the throws and getting those guys the ball.  There's things that we're going to go back and evaluate during the week, and I think we'll be of much improvement come next week.   
 Q.  When you're struggling throwing the ball, is there a point where you feel uncomfortable back there, and if you do, how do you get past that?  
BRANDON WIMBUSH: No, I don't ever feel uncomfortable.  The offensive line did a hell of a job again, and the receivers, of getting open, and the backs.  They all did a great job.  I've just got to understand that I've been playing quarterback for a very long time now, and it's natural to me, and understand that and get these guys the ball.   
 Q.  Do you care about stats?  Do you care about passing stats after a win like this?  
BRANDON WIMBUSH: Today, yeah, definitely.  Under a hundred yards throwing and you're a quarterback?  It's not ideal.  So passing yes, I do, and as a quarterback that's the first thing you do, right, so it troubles me a little bit, but I'm going to enjoy the win for the first 24 hours and then make adjustments this week early.   
 Q.  Coach Kelly talked about going to like a library or stuff that you feel comfortable with.  Is there a group of plays --  
BRANDON WIMBUSH: No, there's no group of plays.  I feel comfortable with the entire offense.  Coach Long and Coach Rees have done a great job of allowing the quarterbacks and the entire offense to really gel, and we run plays over and over throughout the week that we come into.  We game plan for each week, and we run those plays over and over again throughout the week.  We come into the game feeling comfortable and confident in what we're running.   
 Q.  Are there some things that you've noticed that have had more success?  
BRANDON WIMBUSH: I don't think so, maybe some of the things that we have more success throughout the week during practice, then we'll put a focus on throughout the game.  But obviously if something hits in the game and we want to come back to it, I think it's always in our pocket.   
 Q.  He asked about your stats and you went to the passing stats which were bad as opposed to the running stats.  Is that usually how you look at games?  
BRANDON WIMBUSH: Yeah, yeah, I think that's a natural thing for any competitor is to realize what you could have done better.  Obviously we got the win, and that's the most important thing here.  But man, I want to be better throwing the ball and getting these guys, my playmakers, the ball.   
 Q.  When you're rushing in the open field, does that just feel --  
BRANDON WIMBUSH: It feels awesome yeah.  The offensive line, like I said, did a hell of a job again and opened up lanes for myself, Josh Adams, Dexter and Tony, and even Deon got in there at the end and got a couple yards there.  But yeah, when you're running in the open field, it feels great to open up a little bit and obviously have that red jersey off of you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT