UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 19, 2012
Alex King
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






Q.   Are you excited to get a taste of a Thanksgiving game?   Obviously different than anything you've done before?
    ALEX KING:   Yeah, absolutely.   Haven't played on Thanksgiving day yet, but I guess you always watched the Cowboys on Thanksgiving, and it's pretty cool to be able to play on such a great day, and I'm sure there will be a lot of emotions going through a lot of our heads.   But hopefully we can focus and take care of TCU.

Q.   When you were at Duke, did you ever watch the Texas‑Texas A&M game?
    ALEX KING:   Sure, absolutely.

Q.   What's it like knowing everybody is going to be watching? 
    ALEX KING:   Obviously that's exciting, but those kind of thoughts don't really run through your head when you're playing in the game.   You've just got to try to focus on what you can control and pretty much that's just playing our best against TCU. 

Q.   You're going to be honored on senior night, but you've only been here for a year.   What's that going to be like having a senior night at Duke and then having one here?
    ALEX KING:   Right.   That's a great question.   I obviously already had my senior night at Duke, and that was kind of an emotional day, and I didn't have my best performance, so hopefully I can sort of manage my emotions a little better this time and really hone in and focus and punt the ball as best I can. 

Q.   Talk about how the team has accepted you. 
    ALEX KING:   Yeah, I couldn't think of a better place to come to in that regard.   The guys on the team have been awesome.   I feel like I've known them for four years.   You know, from the day I got here, it was really easy to make friends.   The guys were just really friendly guys, and they recognize that playing football here is‑‑ it's demanding.   Everybody who's here, we realize how lucky we are to be here, and we're really just looking forward to playing on Thursday and finishing the season out the right way. 

Q.   I was watching a TV show last night and there was a trivia question about the Texas school record for the most punts in a game.   I believe it was 29 against TCU. 
    ALEX KING:   Wow.

Q.   29 punts in a game?   Wouldn't your leg fall off after 10?
    ALEX KING:   You'd think so.   That's quite a lot of punts.   I guess the offense wasn't doing much that day. 

Q.   What's the most punts you've ever had in a game?
    ALEX KING:   Somewhere around nine or ten, nine or ten, and that was a lot. 

Q.   Do you think you could do 29?
    ALEX KING:   Probably do about 100 on game day in warm‑ups and stuff.   That's a lot of punts in the game.   Hopefully a lot of those are pooch punts so you don't have to kick them too far.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT