UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 19, 2009
Jimmy Clausen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
  Q. What's wrong with the foot?  
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: We'll see. Tomorrow we got to take some x-rays. We'll see tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Do you think it's a toe, arch?   
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: It's a few things. I don't really want to say anything right now because I really don't know obviously what it is.  
  
  Q. Did somebody step on it?   
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: It was when I got sacked on one of the plays. Got tangled up.  
  
  Q. How much did it bother you the rest of the game?  
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: It bothered me. It bothered me a little bit.   
  
  Q. A little more fun this week?  
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: Yeah. Coming up on the other side of it is just a relief. You know, the defense played great at the end. That's what we expect for them to do in the crucial times. They played great.   
  
  Q. As competitor is it hard on the sideline watching the game decided by the other half of the team?  
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: It is. But that's why football is such a great sport, it's because a team sport. Whether we have the ball in our hands or the defense is on the field, it just comes down to a team sport and the defense played great.  
  
  Q. Were you confident in the last drive you were going to get the points you needed?  
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: Definitely. That's what we do, go down, score, put points on the board, whether it's a touchdown or field goal.   
  
  Q. When Michael went out, seemed like everyone stepped up.   
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: That's what I was telling receivers. It's your time to step up. Whoever you are, if you get in there, you got to make plays. They did a great job. We'll see what's wrong with Mike, go from there.  
  
  Q. Got to be pretty dejected?   
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: Yeah, you know, he's been playing great. Injuries just happen in football. Hopefully everything's all right with Mike and he gets back out there as soon as he can.  
  
  Q. How much do you change what you do, if at all, when you lose a guy like Mike?   
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: You know, you lose one of your threats on the outside. Guys got to step up now. They want to get on the field. This is their opportunity. They just got to make plays.   
  
  Q. Last week you said you needed to work harder in practice. Talk about the practices leading up to this game.   
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: Practice was good. We came out on Tuesday. No one had their heads down. We came out, worked hard. That's what you're supposed to do every single day. We had a good week of preparation.  
  
  Q. You've been in this situation a couple times the last couple years. Do you look at this as the get over the hump sort of game and the defense to come through in the end?  
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: I think so. There's a lot of things or tape that we'll see offensively, defensively, special teams that we'll get better at. A great game for the whole team. I'm really happy and proud of this team for fighting for four quarters. Michigan State it a great team.   
 I give a lot of credit to those guys on the other side. They played us hard. They play us hard every single time.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT