UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 5, 2009
Jimmy Clausen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q. Your thoughts on what had to be a pretty fun game to play in for you?
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: Yeah, it was a great game for the whole team. You know, guys just made plays out there. Had a lot of fun. And that's what Coach Weis wanted us to do, and I think he did a great job of that today.

 Q. You have to thank Mike Floyd for a couple of good touchdowns?
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: Yeah, I do. That's one of the reasons why he's so good. He just makes plays every time the ball's thrown to him. You know, like you said earlier, you know, those guys are play makers. All I have to do is give them the ball and they make plays.

 Q. You guys were talking about wanting to show something. What do you feel you showed today? 
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: Actually, I think we showed we can run the ball. We can throw the ball. Defensively, we can play real well. Those guys had a shutout today, and special teams played great as well. 

 Q. Do you feel like the Hawaiian game again? 
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: It did a little bit out there. I think we just want to have that feeling every game. Going out there, having a lot of fun, and just executing the game plan.

 Q. Do you notice any difference with Coach Weis calling the plays and just the vibe on the sideline? 
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: I think so. You know, he's had a lot of input. Even when Coach was calling the plays, but it's his job now. He's offensive coordinator, and we couldn't be happier to have Coach Weis calling the plays.

 Q. Talk about the play of the offensive line?
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: They were great. They were great. They kept me clean all day. They were running holes for the running backs. They gave me a lot of time to get the ball down the field.

 Q. Last year on the last regular season game against USC, you didn't get a first down until the last play of the third quarter. What's happened? What's changed so quickly in these last two games since then? 
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: I just think we, you know, have set a standard. After that SC game, Coach Weis talked to the whole team, and we were going to take a step forward and never look back. And I think we do that again in Hawaii and obviously out there again today.

 Q. How much has a year made in terms of the difference coming out from the first game last season to the mindset and attitude where you guys are right now? 
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: Yeah, kind of how last year the first game we still had questions whether or not we were good enough. Just coming off the Hawaii game, that was, to be honest, that was the first game of this season and just the second win of this season. Hopefully, we can get another one next week. We're going to have a lot of fun tonight with this victory, and get ready to go tomorrow.

 Q. (No microphone) this group of players was pretty businesslike afterwards. Not a lot of running around or celebrating. You were pretty businesslike out there?
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: Yeah, we're here for a reason. And every time we step out on the field, we're out there for a reason. Obviously, we want to get a win, but we've got to act with class. And I'm just having a lot of fun.

 Q. Looking back at last year, Floyd was hurt. How bad was that for this offense? 
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: We just lost one of our playmakers when Mike was out. You know, Golden was pretty much the only one out there with Kyle and everything. They could do a lot of different things, double Kyle and Golden. But with both of those guys out there and Kyle and Armando, and the list keeps going on, but with all those guys out there, we have a lot out there. 

 Q. (No microphone)?
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: I worked hard. You know, when I got here, that was my guy, you know. Coach Weis told me I had to recruit him, and we see how good he is. So thank gosh we got him.

 Q. Your arm strength went way beyond where it was two years ago, but even beyond last year. Do you feel that's something that you feel has improved? 
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: I think so. You know, just lifting more, and getting bigger, faster, stronger. You know, it's obviously going to increase my velocity on the throws. And I think just working a lot in the off-season with the receivers has helped out as well. 

 Q. I would think that when you're more in sync with your ability to throw and your receivers that you're going to be able to get a little bit more on those passes?
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: Yeah, that's one of the main things why I can throw the ball like I do. The timing of routes and just knowing that the receivers know where I'm going to throw the ball, and I know where they're going to be on certain plays. So the timing has to do a lot out there.

 Q. What did you do specifically with Michael that made him decide the right place, wrong place? 
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: I just told him everything that Notre Dame had to offer. He was looking at a bunch of different schools. In the end he was going to go to a place that best fits him, best fits Michael Floyd and his family, and I believe he made the right choice.

 Q. What did you find out about it? 
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: I found out the night I was hosting one of the games. I don't remember which game it was.

 Q. (No microphone) how much of a gauge do you feel like this game was for you guys? 
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: To be honest, Nevada's a real good team offensively and defensively. You know, those two defensive ends Moch and Basped are would-be draft picks next year in the NFL. I think our offensive line did a great job setting the tone of the whole game, and with those guys outside making plays. 

 Q. This team seemed to have a lot of motion. In fact, as you're coming towards the stadium after mass you're waving at the fans. Brian Smith's dancing around. You even had your uniform on. Was this team just amped up? Comment on that. 
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: You know, that's how this team is. You know, this team is a bunch of guys that love having fun. Love the game of football. And I think to love the game of football, you have to show emotion, and that's what this team is all about. 

 Q. The entire "Show us. Don't talk about it" thing, how important is it to come out and actually show something? It's a high-risk thing if you don't do it. 
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: Right. That was the main theme. Coach Weis talked about before the game. We had to go out there and show it. There's been a lot of talk since the Hawaii game and different things like that, but we had to go out and show it today, and I think we did.

 Q. How important was that touchdown pass to Kyle? I know it's early in the game, but you want to get the momentum going?
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: It was huge. It might have been the first third down of the season in the game. And just throwing it up to Kyle, that's a lot of things that we worked on watching film and different things like that. Just gave him a chance, and he went out and made a great play.

 Q. Do you feel like you guys have what it takes to become a BCS team this year? 
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: I don't know. We'll have to wait and see. This is the first game and first step to the season.

 Q. Your last two games have been almost perfect. What can get better or can it get better from what we've seen already? 
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: I made two critical mistakes. There was one on the fourth down to Golden. You know, I had him on a go, and I shouldn't have done that. I should have just kept the play on on, and we probably would have picked up the first down. He might have run it in for a touchdown. But there's just little things that I can do to help this offense and this team. 

 Q. Overall? 
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: Pretty excited. Pretty excited.

 Q. In some ways you can just throw it up there and let them take care of the rest?
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: That's the main thing. My job is easier when all those guys are healthy. I can just get the ball to them as quick as I can. Get it in their hands. 
 You saw on the swing-pass. I threw it ten yards and Mike went 70 with it. So it makes my job real easy knowing I can get those guys involved.

 Q. Did you feel like there's always going to be a mismatch out there? 
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: That's pretty much what it comes down to. All the guys are healthy. If they're going to run cover two, throw the ball, be in post safety, they're just trying to dictate the defense and what we're going to do. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT