UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 22, 2008
Jimmy Clausen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q. Jimmy, talk about this loss. 
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: It's obviously a tough one. Senior's last home game. Last time running through that tunnel. I just feel real bad for all those guys that put all the time and effort in the past four or five years. It's hard.

 Q. Offensively, some big strikes to Golden, but other than that, hard to get anything going to give you some consistency. What is your take on that? 
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: I don't know, we just got done with the game a little bit ago. We got to watch the tape, see what went wrong. 

 Q. Are you frustrated about the leads that have been lost this year? Third time you had leads and weren't able to close it out. 
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: Obviously, we lose a game being up, you know, not ending up with a win is the toughest part.

 Q. You have to be frustrated sometimes not being able to finish. You were there in good position a few times. Not able to punch it in. 
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: Yeah, you know, it's tough. I really don't know, you know, why that's happened. 
 But we'll watch the tape and get ready to go on Monday.

 Q. What's the psyche of this team right now, considering what's happened?
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: Just basically, you know, we're all down right now 'cause we just had a loss. We feel real bad for the seniors. The seniors feel real bad. Most of them are in there right now. I just feel really bad for those guys.

 Q. Talk about the three possessions in the third quarter. You were on the 5, the 21, 23. You got a total of 3 points out of that. Was it something they were doing defensively? 
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: Not really, you know. Penalties killed us a little bit. That sack that I took, I don't know how far it was, but that sack I took killed us as well.

 Q. The other losses were to top-25 teams. Today you lost to a 2-8 Syracuse team with a fired coach. Does that make it tougher to lose to? 
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: It's football. Anything can happen on any given day.

 Q. What was today's walk off the field like?
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: You know, tough. We wanted to send those seniors off with a victory lap, and that didn't happen today.

 Q. What is it like in there right now? How bad is it?
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: Just a lot of guys are down. You know, it's a tough loss. But, you know, we just got to regroup and get ready to go on Monday.

 Q. (Question regarding the seniors.)
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: They pretty much all feel the same. You have that extra something for the seniors. You feel real bad for them that you couldn't send them out on a win for the last night.

 Q. How do you get ready for SC now?
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: You know, get ready. It's USC, one of the top five teams in the country. We got to get ready to go.

 Q. Do you feel like you'll be expecting a win when you get out there?
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: You've got to think that way every single week, whether you're playing -- doesn't matter who you're playing actually. But you got to think that way. 

 Q. Do you let this set in or do you start thinking USC right away?
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: It's going to obviously sit in for the rest of tonight, maybe tomorrow. But we got to get ready to go for SC.

 Q. Was this one of the most disappointing losses you had? Last year was tough, but there were circumstances in this game to put it away. 
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: I really don't know what to say. Like I said, we'll watch the tape and see what went wrong. 

 Q. (Question regarding Golden.) 
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: Didn't change that at all tonight. They did the exact same thing they would have done if Mike was out there or Terrell Owens was out there. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: I can't remember. 

 Q. How many times was he one-on-one? 
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: Yeah, there was a few times they went man-to-man coverage. When they're going to do that, they're going to pay. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT