UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 1, 2008
Jimmy Clausen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


   JIMMY CLAUSEN: We wanted to come and get a victory in the end. Pittsburgh did a great job of playing a good game and they got the victory.   
  
  Q. How frustrating was it in the overtimes not to get it in the end zone?  
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: It was frustrating. Our ultimate goal is to score touchdowns. We just couldn't do it in overtimes.   
  
  Q. Coach was talking about your psyche, keeping you guys up. Where is that right now?  
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: It's obviously low because, you know, we just lost. But he will regroup and come back on Monday.   
  
  Q. As the quarterback, do you feel any responsibility to make sure you guys to regroup?  
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: Yeah, you know, Coach Weis talked about everyone regrouping come Monday. You know, I think that's what we got to do.  
  
  Q. What do you have to do to get better at finishing? Two games you were in pretty good shape but weren't able to close it out.   
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: I don't know. Got to watch some tape, see what we did wrong the second half.   
  
  Q. Anything defensively that Pittsburgh did that made the difference from the first to the second half?   
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: Not really. You know, they tried to double Golden and Mike on the outside. Safeties going over the top.   
 But not really.   
  
  Q. Lots of yards receiving, Michael and Golden.   
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: They played good. Just didn't make enough plays to come out on top today.  
  
  Q. What did Coach Weis tell you after the game?  
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: You know, he talked about the psyche of the team. This is a hard loss. But, you know, come Monday, we got to get ready to go.   
  
  Q. How is Brandon doing?   
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: He's doing all right. He kept us in the game the whole entire time. It's not his fault. He didn't lose the game for us. We all collectively lost the game. Brandon did a great job today.   
  
  Q. You got banged up on one of the third downs. What happened?   
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: Yeah, my foot got rolled up a little bit in the pile.   
  
  Q. On that play at fourth and one, you expected certain coverage, but what happened?   
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: Yeah, we were expecting them to stop the run. But the safety held up. Just couldn't make the play.   
  
  Q. I think it was the second overtime, first or second play, you overshot Floyd. Looked like you wished you had that throw back. It just sailed on you a little bit?  
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: It surprised me a little bit. He was wide open. I just overthrew him. I wish I could have that one back.   
  
  Q. Fourth and one, is that one of those plays where you can't change it, used your last timeout, you just went and ran it? Did you notice the coverage?  
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: Yeah, I did. But that's what the coaches wanted to run, and we ran it.   
  
  Q. Going into halftime, you had to have a feeling like you were on a roll.   
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: You know, that's what you want to feel coming into halftime. But just didn't happen in the second half. That's just what happened.   
  
  Q. You were standing in front of Coach Weis as the team went in the tunnel. What were you looking for as you watched the team file in?  
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: I wasn't looking for anything. I was just upset about the loss. That's pretty much it.   
  
  Q. What did you see from Michael Floyd that you hadn't seen in previous games?  
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: He just keeps making plays. That's what he's here to do, make plays. He's done a great job throughout the season making plays.  
  
  Q. Are you developing now a confidence with him?  
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: Yeah, I have confidence with all the receivers. I got confidence in all those guys.   
  
  Q. Is there a play you're going to remember most, one that got away?  
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: In that overtime, I overshot Mike, second overtime or something like that. I wish I could have had it back. But it's over with now.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT