UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 4, 2008
Jimmy Clausen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


   THE MODERATOR: Questions for Jimmy.   
  
  Q. What explanation did you get for the false start calls?   
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: You know, the ref said that my hands were under the center and I was like flinching with my hands. So I don't know.   
  
  Q. Did you feel like you were doing anything different than you always do?  
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: I didn't feel I was doing anything different. I think I flinch a little bit with my whole body, but not just my hands. He said I was just doing it with my hands. It was kind of interesting.   
  
  Q. Have you ever been called for anything like that before?   
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: No. No. I've never actually, you know, been told that I like flinch or anything like that. It was new to me.   
  
  Q. Seems like every week we talk to you, we're talking about another strong performance. Your confidence must just be skyrocketing, going off the chart right now.   
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: Yeah, you know, I feel good. This team feels good. The offensive line did a great job once again today. The play-makers outside did a great job making plays. Like I said, it makes my job a lot easier.   
  
  Q. Your accuracy is so good. Do you feel like you can make any throw you have to throw now?  
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: Yeah, you know, I'm real confident in my ability to make every throw that needs to be made on the football field.   
 I'm not done yet. I got a long ways to go to be a good quarterback. I'm just taking it one day at a time.   
  
  Q. Throwing to Michael Floyd, do you feel you just need to throw it somewhere in the stadium (laughter)?   
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: After he dropped that one, I got in his ear a little bit (laughter).   
 But, you know, he's a play-maker. He told me to throw it back up to him again. I did. He made a great play.   
  
  Q. Charlie said you guys were more fired up before this game than he'd ever seen you. How much was that what you read in the papers?  
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: It had to do something with that, you know, what they said in the papers. But I think this team it just real motivated. Coming off a big victory last week against Purdue, we tried to translate what we did in the second half to this game.  
  
  Q. How big was continuing that from last week?  
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: We played a great half of football in the second half last week against Purdue. Coach Weis stressed this week being consistent, and that's how we got to play each and every quarter, you know, to win games.   
  
  Q. What is this locker room like? Being 4-1, has to feel great?  
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: Yeah, it feels great. There was a lot of emotion coming into this game, you know, in the locker room. There's a lot of celebrating after the game. I think it's great for this team.  
  
  Q. Coach Harbaugh said he didn't see you afterwards on the field.   
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: You know, to be honest, after the little melee was going on, I went up to him, stuck my hand out, just said, Good game, coach. You know, he obviously didn't want to talk to me, so...   
  
  Q. Were you surprised that happened?  
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: Yeah, I was actually. He's a great guy, a great coach. He recruited me a little bit. I was just going up to him, you know, trying to have good sportsmanship, say good game. He obviously either didn't see me or didn't want to talk to me.  
  
  Q. There's no doubt he didn't see you? He said he didn't see you after the game. There's no doubt in your mind he saw you?   
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: He either saw me or didn't see me.   
  
  Q. Maybe he doesn't recognize you.   
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: I guess not (laughter). Yeah, the new haircut got him, I guess.  
  
  Q. You were right in his path, though, right?   
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: Like I said, I just put my hand out there and said, Good game, coach. He either didn't see me or didn't want to talk to me.  
  
  Q. You lost your first five games last year by a total of 120 points. They had you down, kicked you when you were down. You beat Stanford last year, too. But do you feel like you're reaching a point now where it's payback, you and Notre Dame football now owe a few people from what happened last year?  
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: Yeah, you know, last year was last year. We've moved on. This is a different team than last year. We just got to go out each and every day during practice, get better. Can't take any days off, like I keep stressing, just come out ready to go on Saturdays.   
  
  Q. Kyle Rudolph, what are you starting to see out of him?  
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: He's developing faster than everyone thought. He was a great player coming in. We knew he could be great for us, but we just didn't know how fast. He's done a great job with going out, him stepping up big for us. I think he's progressing each and every day, each and every week, and his confidence level is skyrocketing, as you see.  
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: It's huge, especially when those guys are playing coverage, too. They're trying to get over the top of Golden, Michael Floyd. Leaves the middle of the field open for him.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible) like every week is doing something you haven't seen before.   
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: He's a play-maker. That's all I can say. He's a play-maker, going out there every and every day, making plays. That's all I can say.   
  
  Q. (Question regarding ranking.)  
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: We really don't care about rankings. All we care about is winning on Saturdays, going out each and every day during practice, getting better, coming on Saturdays ready to go and win.  
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: Obviously we didn't want to lose that one game to Michigan State. But that's behind us. We just got to focus on the task at hand, whoever's next for us. We're going to celebrate this one tonight and come Monday we're going to get ready for North Carolina.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: As for 4-1, I think so. As for the fast start, about playing and stuff like that, I think we've got to watch the film to see that. It's great, you know, being able to throw to guys like Golden, Floyd, Duval, Grimes, Rudolph. The list goes on. It's just great having those guys in arm shot.   
  
  Q. Are you comfortable are you from three weeks ago?  
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: As the season goes on, the team gets more comfortable.  
  
  Q. I'm talking about you.   
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: Yeah, you know, it's not just me. I feed off the rest of the guys on offense, the rest of the team. We just are real confident.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
JIMMY CLAUSEN: It was great. He ran a great route. That was the coverage we wanted. Put it on him. He caught it and got six.   
  
  Q. Coach was talking about winning on the road, that's the next step for you guys. Now you have a stretch on the road.   
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: Yeah, you know, that's big. Coach Weis has talked about that after the game. We got to be ready to go. North Carolina's going to be a tough game for us. We got to start getting ready on Monday.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT