UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 7, 2009
Jimmy Clausen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q. How disappointed are you?
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: I'm all right. I'm as best I can right now.

 Q. How disappointing is this loss?
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: It's real disappointing. Obviously we want to win every single game, and just a heartbreaking loss, I guess.

 Q. Did they do something different do you guys in the red zone to keep you guys from getting into the end zone?
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: No, I think it was just our execution as an offense. Once we'd go down in the red zone for whatever reason, we didn't execute, and we'll watch tape tomorrow and see what went on.

 Q. What's your recollection of what happened on the play that you fumbled at the end of the third?
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: I just got hit. A guy made a good play, and I fumbled the ball. 

 Q. Were you woozy at that point? Obviously it looked like you were. How long did it take you before you were able to kind of realize where you were at and everything like that? 
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: I'm not going to get into like details, but the guy made a good play, made a big hit on me, made me fumble and they recovered it. 

 Q. Can you talk about the interception that bounced off Michael's back, what happened on that play?
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: Yeah, we were trying to get a double cadence and we just miscommunicated. He was blocking the screen, and I was just trying to throw a slant, and it went off his back and a guy made a good play on it. 

 Q. Overall how nice was it to have him back out there?
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: It was good. Obviously having a playmaker out there who was one of the better threats. It was just good to have all the guys out there helping.

 Q. Was it an inaudible on that play? Did you change the play and that's why there was miscommunication, or what happened?
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: No, I didn't change the play. On the cadence I was giving them signals, and we just miscommunicated.

 Q. Did you expect Golden Tate to be more involved early? 
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: Did I expect him to? 

 Q. Yeah, in terms of plays that were called, after what he's done the last four or five weeks. 
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: Yeah, plays are based -- not based, on getting an individual the ball. I'm reading my progression, and I'm throwing to an open guy, and some of those routes are second or third option, and I just didn't get back to him.

 Q. Could you talk about the 4th and 3 situation when you guys went for the TD instead of field goal? What went wrong there early in the game? 
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: Yeah, we were trying to go for a touchdown. Obviously we got down there a few times before that and weren't able to put the ball in the end zone. It was actually a good drawn-up play, and it just didn't work out.

 Q. Did they blitz on that play?
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: They blitzed the Sam on that play, yeah. 

 Q. So many of your good plays today were made after you were flushed. It was almost the primary receiver than where you went, a little more than usual. Is there anything to that?
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: Not really. I felt pressure a few times, which made me get out of the pocket, step up and get out and just trying to make a play down the field.

 Q. The two sacks that ended up in the safety, did they send more people? Did they send the blitz, or was it their normal number rushing? 
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: It was just their normal guys rushing. I don't really know if they dropped a tackle in or anything, but it was three or four guys.

 Q. What's the frustration factor right now?
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: You know, just having a loss, whenever you have a loss, you're frustrated and you wish you could have done something better and I could have done something better and the rest of the guys on the team could have done something better. It's just frustrating right now.

 Q. You look at the numbers you put up and it's hard to believe you guys only scored 21 points. 
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: Yeah, it's not about statistics at all, it's about production and putting points on the board and at the end of the game coming up with a win.

 Q. As a leader how do you get this team ready to play again? 
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: The season is definitely not over. There's three games ahead of us. We've got Pittsburgh next down there, and they're a real good team. We'll be ready to go. We have meetings tomorrow, and get a little workout in. But trust me, this team will be ready to go.

 Q. Is this loss different than Michigan and USC?
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: A loss is a loss, it doesn't really matter who you play. It's just heartbreaking right now.

 Q. How tough is Navy, just what they do out there?
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: They play the game until the whistle is blown, and they played hard, and I give those guys a lot of credit. They fought and they fought and they fought some more, and their offense did a good job today executing the game plan, and I give a lot of credit to the head coach and the defensive guys making a lot of plays. 

 Q. You guys have done it so often before coming back down the field. How surprised were you that they were able to get the safety on you and keep you from moving down the field the way you have the last few games?
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: Yeah, I was surprised they were rushing three, four and just dropping everybody in the cover, so it was kind of hard to get the ball down the field.

 Q. You've been kind of struggling in the red zone for a while now. Is there something you can point to, kind of an overarching reason why? 
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: I don't know to be honest. I'm going to have to watch the tape tomorrow and just see where I can improve to get the offense in a better position to make plays and just execute the plays more and just be more efficient down there. 

 Q. Was the timing off for Floyd at all, some of those routes that you threw down to the end zone?
 JIMMY CLAUSEN: No, not at all. I think just miscommunication and him just coming back, obviously he's going to be a little rusty. But I think he did a good job today of stepping in and making some plays.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT