ISPS HANDA PERTH INTERNATIONAL
October 25, 2014
Sihwan Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  SIHWAN KIM:   The wind was from left to right, a little down, and I just piped it down the left side of the green.   I didn't know how close it was, so I just get the tee and then I was just waiting.  
About 10 seconds later people were clapping.   I didn't know it was that close.   But, yeah.  
OLIVIA MCMILLAN:   All right.   Questions.   
   
 Q.   You need of course outright second or a win here to retain your card.   
SIHWAN KIM:   Right.  
   
 Q.   You're in the right spot at the moment.   
SIHWAN KIM:   Right.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel as though you're close enough to challenge tomorrow?  
SIHWAN KIM:   Yeah, three shots in a rounds can turn easy.   I mean, bogey and a birdie on the same hole, that's two already.  
Golf is one of those sports where you don't really know how it's going to end up.   
Yeah.   
   
 Q.   (Regarding Thorbjorn.)   Was it hard not to focus on what he was doing, too?   
SIHWAN KIM:   He just played well.   You know, just on 3 he hit it way right and ended up just like hitting the trees and being fine.  
He just chipped out, made a chip shot for a birdie.   Just got him started.   For us, I mean, I had a pretty tough start.   Just been hooking it all day.  
On the back, you know, my caddie is quite positive, and he's just been telling me, This is your nine.   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   How do you normally handle the pressure in those sort of situations going into the final round being in the lead or close to it?   
SIHWAN KIM:   I mean, you just got to face it.   Everyone is going to be under pressure.   Doesn't matter how good he is orif he's No. 1 in the world or not.   Everyone is going to be under pressure final round, final group.   
I think just embracing the fact that you're close to the lead, and you're going to have some key putts or key shots out there that you need to pull off.  
If you do it, you know, you have a chance of winning.   If you don't, then you fall off.  
   
 Q.   Have you had much to do with him over the years?  
SIHWAN KIM:   Actually played with him in Dubai this year.   That's when he beat me like by 10 shots one day in the third round.   
Yeah, I think every time play with him he's played nicely.   
   
 Q.   You would no doubt like to turn that around tomorrow.   
SIHWAN KIM:   Yeah, well see.   We'll see.   Obviously golf, when you get hot you get hot, and when you get cold you get cold.  
See how it goes.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
SIHWAN KIM:   I mean, I don't think I missed much either, so...   
He just hit much better shots than I did.   
I think for most of the tournaments it all comes down to putting when you want to shoot well.  
Yeah, what can I say?   He just played really well.   
   
 Q.   Dropping a shot on 8, does that stay with you or it's in the past and you've moved on?   
SIHWAN KIM:   You know, just looking at the whole round, played well.   I was 1‑over making the turn, and then after eight holes I was 4‑under total.   
That last shot, yeah, I made a bogey, but I had a chance at par and I just missed the putt.   There was nothing you could do about it.   
   
 Q.   Happy with your swing today?  
SIHWAN KIM:   Yeah, I mean, the front nine my tee shot was just, yeah, left.   It kind of creeped in on my irons as well.  
But just kind of got it together in the middle there and was able to pull it off.   
   
 Q.   Second shot on 18. (Indiscernible.)   
SIHWAN KIM:   Yeah, that's been there for the whole day, and if I‑‑ it's either that or a pretty good shot, and I just, you know, missed left.   
   
 Q.   We had a Korean win last year, and you could make it two in a row.   Nice thought?  
SIHWAN KIM:   Right.   
   
 Q.   History may be on your side there.   
SIHWAN KIM:   Maybe.   He's a good friend of mine.   We've known each other for about maybe six, seven years.   It's quite funny how last year didn't have any status anywhere and ends up winning this tournament and he has status on the European Tour.  
Yeah.   
   
 Q.   Spoke to him at all?   
SIHWAN KIM:   Yeah.   I'm going to have dinner with him tonight, I think.   I think me and my Korean crew will have dinner, and, yeah, I'm pretty sure he's got something to say.   
OLIVIA MCMILLAN:   Excellent.   Thanks so much.   Best of luck tomorrow.  
SIHWAN KIM:   Thanks.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT