U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 22, 2007
Sihwan Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   CRAIG SMITH:  Sihwan Kim is joining us in the media room.  4-under par today.  No bogeys.  Winning his first match 1-up.  You beat a very good player.   
 SIHWAN KIM:  Yeah, I did.   
 CRAIG SMITH:  Talk about your match.  You're 4-under par, you probably figure you're going to get to the clubhouse a little sooner than what you did.   
 SIHWAN KIM:  Yeah, I got off to a very hot start.  I was 4-up after five holes.  And I thought like if I just keep this going I could maybe go into the clubhouse on like 13, 14.   
 But he started coming back, making putts, getting birdies.  I'm just keeping on trying not to give up my par streak.  I just didn't want to give up this hole with a bogey.  So I just kept it going with a par.   
 And I made a few birdies and he made a few birdies and then we were going back to back.   
 And on the last hole I made four, maybe four and a half feet putt for par and won the match.   
 CRAIG SMITH:  That's about the size of the putt that you made to win the Junior here, so you had some pretty good memories on the 18th hole.  Hole location pretty much the same.  And you haven't lost here yet.   
 SIHWAN KIM:  Yeah, but like 18 is all, I'm kind of scared of 18.  I can't say it is my favorite hole.  It's a tough fairway.  It's hard to hit on.  And it's tough second shot.  But I'm just getting like getting good breaks and just putting well on 18.  So.   
 CRAIG SMITH:  Questions.   
  
  Q.  What is it about this course that seems to appeal to you?  Because obviously you have had success here now.   
 SIHWAN KIM:  I don't know.  This course just seems like a good fit to me.  This course is hard, I have a tough time playing this course, but sometimes when I play match play it seems like my opponents are messing up more than I do.  It's not like I play like 6, 7-under to beat them, I just maybe play, shoot around even par and they just shoot over par and I win that way.   
 So this course is tough and my drive's been pretty straight so a little tight fairways with long rough is, I think it fits me quite well.   
  
  Q.  How much does that 2004, the Junior Amateur sort of linger in your mind and does it help much to have that?   
 SIHWAN KIM:  It helps a lot.  It gives confidence.  And if I just remember what I did in that week I think I just play a lot better and just try to think of good memories about like specific holes or this whole golf course.  I think it helps me a lot.   
 CRAIG SMITH:  Talk about you had to qualify to be here.  But I know you told me when you were going to qualifying that you were hoping to come back here because it was a good place with some good memories.   
 SIHWAN KIM:  I qualified in Michigan over, it was right before Western.  And I, it's, in California, it's only like 7 hour drive and I wanted to come back here again.  It's a great course.  I have good memories.  And I was fortunate enough to make it.   
 CRAIG SMITH:  How much better are you as a player now than three years ago?   
 SIHWAN KIM:  I think that -- maybe -- as a player -- I think I'm, well just a little better, not much.  But the thing is like when I was little I didn't know what's going on.  I had no fear on the course.  I just would go up and hit the ball, putt the ball.  But right now I have a lot more things in my mind, but if I just forget that and be more confident then I could be a lot better player than I was before.   
  
  Q.  So you weren't scared of 18?  Three years ago?   
 SIHWAN KIM:  18?  I think it's the scariest hole like on this golf course.  Because it's obviously it's the last hole and although it's like 300 some yards, it's pretty hard course or pretty intimidating hole.   
 So you're going to hit have to hit your tee shot on the fairway for sure and get your second ball on to the green for you to maybe 2-putt or make a birdie.   
  
  Q.  He asked you how much better you were or are now, how much bigger are you now?  How big were you in 2004?   
 SIHWAN KIM:  I don't know.  I don't quite remember.  But I no he that I was a lot chubbier back then.  I'm probably like a little taller than before.  But I got skinnier so it makes me look taller than I was before.   
  
  Q.  Have you grown taller or skinnier or both?   
 SIHWAN KIM:  Oh, yeah, maybe like 2, 3 inches, at most, maybe.   
 CRAIG SMITH:  You weren't really sure that you were in form to compete with the top college players, are you changing your mind?   
 SIHWAN KIM:  No, I like competitions.  If it's, if it challenges me, I practice more and it kind of pushes, it motivates me.  There are a lot more great players than I am out there, so I'm just keeping on striving to be the best.   
  
  Q.  Do you feel like you're ready for Stanford?  Are you excited to be on the team?   
 SIHWAN KIM:  I'm super excited.  I can't wait to go on the team and be on the campus and live a college life and it's nice.   
  
  Q.  You're carrying the banner now, because Joseph lost today.   
 SIHWAN KIM:  Yeah.  I guess he was 1-down through 17 and he got like.   
  
  Q.  He lost in the first playoff hole?   
 SIHWAN KIM:  Yeah.  Joseph's a good player, but Chris Kirk, I mean, I guess he's better.  But I know Chris Kirk's really good.  But it's kind of disappointing that Joseph lost.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT