NASCAR CUP SERIES: BLUEGREEN VACATIONS DUEL 1 AT DAYTONA
February 13, 2020
Paul Wolfe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: We are joined by the crew chief of the race‑winning car, Paul Wolfe. The race winning car was the No.22 Shell‑Pennzoil Ford. 

Q. I'm still tripping on you walking in here in Pennzoil stuff, but in that vein, how nice is it for you and Joey to get off to a new partnership and put it right in Victory Lane like this? 
PAUL WOLFE: Well, it definitely builds confidence for sure. Obviously we've both been with Team Penske for quite some time, and we've both had success there, right, but when you start moving pieces around and teams and stuff, you never know what's going to happen. 
You know, you have the confidence in each other, but until you actually go out there and do it, there's always some doubt. This is obviously just a small win here at the Duel, but it definitely will build some momentum as we work through our relationship here. 

Q. Obviously along those same lines, when this happened, it kind of caught everyone off guard. My understanding is you guys came in and it was a switch‑up. What is it like working with Joey one‑on‑one versus as a teammate when you were with Brad? 
PAUL WOLFE: Well, it's obviously different. You know, each of the drivers have different strengths and weaknesses just like we all do as crew chiefs, as well. Really the last month has just been trying to spend a lot of time and understand kind of his approach to racing and the things he's used to, what he likes, what he doesn't like, and then really just kind of blending everything together. Take the strengths of each of us and hopefully put together a stronger package than we've had in the past. 
It's been good. There's still a long ways to go. It was nice to get some practice sessions last Saturday, and now we've got two short races under our belt. But I think the biggest part is going to be when we hit the West Coast Swing there and get to a lot of those style racetracks, and then we're going to really start to understand where we are and the areas that we want to work. 

Q. Any idea on who got the best deal out of all of this for you? 
PAUL WOLFE: I don't know, you'll have to ask someone else that, but this is the deal I got, and I'm going to work as hard as I can, and I know Joey, he puts in the time. I'll give him that. He puts in the time, and he's as dedicated as any that I've seen. 
That's good. He's got a lot of experience. But he's still very open to new ideas and changing maybe some of his ways just because he wants to do what's going to be best for the team. 

Q. I know this doesn't directly involve your car, your team, but the incident with the 12 and the 96, it seems like it kind of boiled down to a communication error on when you guys were pitting. From your standpoint what was that process like, and for Sunday how important is it to make sure everyone knows what that process and timing is like? 
PAUL WOLFE: Yeah, that's the thing. Obviously we had a pretty good group of Fords in that Duel, and I think we've been doing a good job of working together. We talked about it before the race, of kind of what our plan was. The communication part sometimes when you get in the race and whether the chats are working or not and the timing of all that is definitely something we've got to look at because we kind of missed it a little bit is basically what happened there. 
So having a plan is one thing, but then executing it is another. Obviously there was a miscue with that, so we'll have to look at what went wrong and try to learn from it. That's all we can do is try to put the mistakes, learn from the mistakes and put them behind us and move forward. 
I thought as a whole we worked well together. All the Fords I thought did a really good job, and obviously the 10 was a strong partner with us in helping push us to the finish there, so I'm encouraged by how we all worked together. We've just got to continue to fine‑tune some details and make sure we don't have nothing like that happen Sunday. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT