NHL DRAFT
June 30, 2013
Sean Monahan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Did you know you were going to Calgary?  
SEAN MONAHAN:   I wasn't 100 percent sure, but I knew they had interest and I guess I was one of their needs as a centerman.   I had a few interviews with them and I thought I left a good impression, so I wasn't sure but I thought it was possible I might go there.  
   
 Q.   They talked about how well you played for the 67s and that was a rebuilding year, but do you see a correlation?  
SEAN MONAHAN:   I'm looking forward to it.   It's going to be a challenge and I'm always up for a challenge.   I think I'm going to be a part of that team and help that team win, so it's going to be a fun time.  
   
 Q.   A lot of people think you're NHL ready.   Do you feel you're ready?  
SEAN MONAHAN:   I want to play.   That's my goal.   I want to play this year, and I think I can.   I want to be an impact and I want to be a reliable player out there, too.   I don't want to be taken off my own end for face‑offs and stuff like that, so I want to compete and be an impact next year.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible).   
SEAN MONAHAN:   Yeah, I think so.   I think I am NHL ready, and obviously this summer is going to help that, and I've been working really hard since my season ended.   It ended March 17th, so I've had a long time, and I'm going to continue working hard this summer.   
   
 Q.   Today is the culmination of one part of the journey and I guess the beginning of the next chapter.   What will you take away from not only today but I guess your time leading up to getting to today?   
SEAN MONAHAN:   It's a lot of hard work, and I think obviously with all the interviews you go through, you've just got to learn to be yourself, and I'm going to continue to do that.   I'm going to take that out of this and obviously share in this draft day with my parents and other family members and friends.   It's special, and I'm going to remember this day forever.  
   
 Q.   Obviously last year was a pretty difficult one.   What did you learn from that?   Did you learn a lot about yourself?  
SEAN MONAHAN:   Yeah, obviously being the captain of the team I was relied on a lot, and I think I liked that.   You've got to go through a lot of adversity, and you go through, I guess, bumps and you learn a lot about yourself and I guess about the team.   I think it really helped me leadership wise be a better player and a better person.  
   
 Q.   What was the emotion of today like for you?   
SEAN MONAHAN:   It's crazy.   You don't know what to expect.   I heard my name called, and I didn't actually realize that I was just picked.   I was just sitting there, and I stood up, and you kind of black out a little bit as you're walking up there.   It really sunk in right when I got on the stage, and I couldn't be happier to be selected by the Flames.  
   
 Q.   You mentioned Toews being a guy you like.   What specifically do you like about him?   
SEAN MONAHAN:   I think he has a two‑way game.   He competes hard game in and game out.   He's a consistent player, and that's what I want to be.   He's a leader and he also produces.   That's the type of player I want to be when I'm in the NHL.   
   
 Q.   Do you expect you'll get some texts?  
SEAN MONAHAN:   Probably, yeah.   I've got a lot of friends back home watching and I've got a lot of support.   I'm guessing I've got quite a few messages and I'm looking forward to meeting them.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible).   
SEAN MONAHAN:   Yeah, it was awesome.   I couldn't thank Ottawa enough.   Obviously Killer was there when he drafted me and I was 15 years old.   He drafted me and he drove down to my house, and I met with him there.   It was a special memory there, and looking back there it seems like it was just yesterday, and I guess it's three years ago now, and I couldn't thank Ottawa enough for helping me develop and be the player I am now.  
   
 Q.   Not a lot of players get to wear the C.   How did that help you maybe show case a different part of your game?  
SEAN MONAHAN:   I think it's kind of a trait I have.   I've been a leader growing up, and I think obviously being named the captain this year was an honor.   But it was good for me.   I think it made me a better player.   I didn't want to take any days off at all and make sure that my teammates were on the right page, and I think it helped me as a player, and it helped our team.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the opportunity to play in Calgary?   
SEAN MONAHAN:   Yeah, it's awesome.   I think I can fit in well.   I've had a few meetings with them, and I think it's a good squad for me.   I'm excited, and I want to be an impact there next year.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT