NCAA MEN'S 1ST AND 2ND ROUNDS: SAN JOSE
March 21, 2019
Kamau Stokes
Xavier Sneed
Barry Brown Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR: We'll welcome Kansas State to the dais, student-athletes.  We'll open it up to questions.  We have Kamau Stokes, Barry Brown and Xavier Sneed as our players.   
 Q.  Barry, what makes Irvine so good defensively, and what kind of challenges do they present to you guys?  
BARRY BROWN, JR.: I mean, I think they just got good guards that can pressure the ball.  And they got two bigs and even bigs that come off the bench that good rim protectors.  They like to help the helper a lot.  Kind of just help from all facets of the court corners, being in the gaps a lot, really packing the lane in.   
 Q.  We ask so many questions about health, but I'll start with that.  You guys had a chance to get a couple of days off before traveling.  How good do you guys feel physically come down the line with this?  
KAMAU STOKES: With the extra days' rest, physically I feel good.  100 percent.  So I'm good.   
BARRY BROWN, JR.: I think we're all good, man.  Just extra day.  Just got our minds right, bodies right.  Able to rest, get some extra sleep and feeling good right now.   
XAVIER SNEED: Pretty much the same.   
 Q.  Is this a team different than anybody you've seen in the Big 12?  Is there a team you'd compare them to for a fan trying to figure out what Irvine is like?  
BARRY BROWN, JR.: I can't really think of a team that they compare to in the Big 12.  But, I mean, we played them last year.  We kind of know them a little bit, because, I mean, they got the same team back.  We also got the same team back, so it's kind of a team that we've already been through, have some old film.  And you know, they got a few new players in there, adjust things they do offensively and defensively, but for the most part we have a little history with them.   
 Q.  Xavier, a year ago when Dean was down, you played a little bit more at the 4 and had lots of success in that run to the Elite Eight.  I'm curious as to how that helps you going into this tournament and forward.  
XAVIER SNEED: Just a sense of confidence and knowing what to do on the court at the different positions and being able to exploit different matchups that we have.  Just going in there and being the best possible threat for the team.   
 Q.  With that I'd ask you, maybe for all three of you, what are the concerns about their size?  
BARRY BROWN, JR.: I mean, it's no concern.  We're going to do things that takes certain things away.  They have a size advantage on their offensive end, but we have a size advantage on our offensive end as well.  So it's kind of flip-flopping.  We hope we can make our advantage on both sides of the court, offensively and defensively.  So we'll see what happens.   
 Q.  Barry, you guys are so good defensively.  Were all your players, do you think most of your players on your team were defensive minded before you got to Kansas State, or is this something that they kind of instill in you when you get there?  And if so, how do they do it?  
BARRY BROWN, JR.: I'm not sure.  Different backgrounds, people from different areas.  So I don't really know about their mindset when they come in here.  You're definitely going to leave defensive minded.  You're going to come in here and do a lot of shell, you're going to get yelled at a lot.  You're just going to just get coached, going to have to play defense and get on the floor.   
Like I said, I don't know what their mindset is, but when you leave here, you'll definitely be a good defender.   
 Q.  The good run last year in the tournament, Xavier, the Big 12 regular season this year.  What sort of culture do you think you guys are building here at Kansas State?  
XAVIER SNEED: We're coming to be a great ball club.  We got some things on our back with these guys and things they did and how they left their legacy here at Kansas State, and hopefully continue to keep pushing forward.   
 Q.  Kamau, what do you remember about that game with UC Irvine last year?  I know it was a long time ago, but I think they shot about 28 percent and you guys jumped on them pretty good.  What do you remember about that, and is there anything that carries over to this one?  
KAMAU STOKES: From what I can remember, I think we shot the ball pretty well, especially early.  Like you said, we got off to a good start.  And holding them to 28 percent is credit to our defense.  Like Barry said, you're going to leave this program defensive minded.  And in order for you to stay on that floor, you gotta be able to play defense, and from what I can remember from that game, we did a pretty good job with that.   
 Q.  And statistically, I mean, you guys were a very good defensive team last year.  This year most of the stats show that you're better.  Is that just from the continuity, or is there some extra emphasis on the part of defense that they instilled this year?  
KAMAU STOKES: Some of it is from continuity, of course.  And then the other part of it is just playing harder.  And we gotta really fight for things we want to do, and in order to win games, especially in the Big 12, you gotta be able to stop your opponent, and that was our emphasis for the year.   
 Q.  Barry and Xavier, what's it like to look down the court and see an Anteater mascot?  Intimidating at all?  
BARRY BROWN, JR.: You got that.   
XAVIER SNEED: A little different, you know, but we don't worry about that.  We just worry about things focused on the court and winning the ball game.   
 Q.  I guess this will be mostly for Barry and Kam.  Like for both of you to answer it.  In terms of a third straight NCAA Tournament for you guys and maybe how you want to be remembered when this is over, you guys have a chance to do something really special with another run, maybe somewhat similar to last year.  Are you motivated by that in any way, shape or form, or is this just we go game by game and that's how it works?  
KAMAU STOKES: I mean, of course we have to go game by game, but we're definitely motivated.  When we came in, we knew it was going to be tough, especially our freshman year.  We didn't make the tournament.  And then every year after that we just preached on getting better every year.  And we've done that.  And this is our last go-around, so, like you said, hopefully we can make another run.   
BARRY BROWN, JR.: I mean, like he said, we're definitely motivated, but, I mean, it's kind of last year, you know.  It's in the past, and, I mean, we're a better team.  We're just trying to do better things.  The Elite Eight run was fun.  We're just trying to take it game by game, day by day and get better hopefully, doing even more special things.   
MODERATOR: We good?  I think that's it.  Thanks, guys.  Appreciate it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT