VIVENDI CUP 2010
September 23, 2010
Chris Gane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. After such a fine performance last week, great to keep it going, isn't it?
 CHRIS GANE: Yeah, it's wonderful. Obviously enjoyed last week a lot. All of the text messages on Sunday night, it's fantastic to get all of them. Just great to pick up from where we left off last week.

 Q. Despite the confidence that brings, it's not always that easy to do just that. 
 CHRIS GANE: No, I've started badly today. Golf swing didn't feel very good at all. I lost a ball down the third and I thought, hang on, this isn't going to happen. And fortunately made birdie with my provisional which was only bogey then. And then just, yeah, around the turn, I went 2-2, birdied around the turn and that really got me going the right direction and had another burst of three in a row at the end. 
 Putter is still shot thankfully.

 Q. Including that eagle, I take it?
 CHRIS GANE: Yeah, it was a drivable par 4 and managed to drive it on the front half of the green and holed a 40-foot swinging putt, which I didn't believe was going to go in. It just grabbed the hole and went in. That's a big bonus.

 Q. The text messages, I take it they are all saying congratulations, you've done well?
 CHRIS GANE: Yeah, it's lovely, you get texts from people you haven't heard from all year. Plus a text message from the Tour on Sunday night was a nice one to receive, as well.

 Q. What did that one say? 
 CHRIS GANE: That said 24,000 Euros, which is the biggest one I've had all year.

 Q. You didn't get follow-up messages saying, 'that money you owe us?' 
 CHRIS GANE: Yeah, I'm good with that. That's why there's no money in my account; I tend to pay all of my creditors, debtors.

 Q. Tell me about this event. You're playing in a different kind of format, you have a Pro-Am; do you know the guy you're playing with?
 CHRIS GANE: No. Met him on the first tee. A little bit nervous I think he was. Lovely guy though. 
 Yeah, it's a good event. It's quite relaxed in a way. You feel sorry for the amateurs sometimes, especially fortunately I was playing well today and I assume the cameras were looking again. I saw them out there, and you've got your amateur slashing it around a little bit, so you do feel a bit sorry for them. 
 But we had two good partners today and it was the first time I played with Daniel and he was really good company, as well. So it was a nice day on the course. 

 Q. I guess he just becomes that little bit more edgy with the cameras, or maybe he lives up to it?
 CHRIS GANE: Yeah, he played nicely actually since they arrived. So I think I might take a bit of credit for that; he owes me a couple of beers I reckon. But I might not tell him that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT