NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: FLYERS v BLACKHAWKS
June 8, 2010
Ville Leino
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JAMEY HORAN: Questions for Ville? 

 Q. Ville, can you talk about playing at home for the final time this season, and not only sending off the fans with something positive, but on the other hand, not having Chicago come in here, win and celebrate on your home ice? 
 VILLE LEINO: Well, obviously it's a big game. We're going to be ready and we have to be ready. Because the last game wasn't good. And hopefully it was a little bit of a wake-up call. We just got to win tomorrow. That's all. All we're going to be thinking. 

 Q. Along the same lines, is your extra motivation knowing the Stanley Cup is in the building and you don't want them to hoist it here? 
 VILLE LEINO: Well, it's probably same thing to both teams. They probably just want to grab it, and we don't want to give it away. I think it's mentally the same for the both teams. It's just something a little extra there. 

 Q. Ville, what are your impressions of Chris Pronger, his demeanor? He seems pretty loose with the media. Seems to be having fun even after losses. Does his moods, does that reflect on the team as well? 
 VILLE LEINO: Well, probably. Probably yes. I don't think he cares about, or he cares, but I don't think it matters. He had a rough game yesterday, and everybody else did. 
 So he's loose and having fun. I think that's the way he goes. He's enjoying. So hopefully everyone else is too. 

 Q. What is Peter like in the locker room with you guys? Is he more of a big motivational speech kind of a guy before the games? Or is he just an X's and O's video type of guy? How would you describe his role in the way you guys have turned the season around? 
 VILLE LEINO: I think he's good. He has great speeches. They're not just speeches. He really motivates people. It's not just talk. You can feel how he really feels -- you can feel the truth in the talk and he's really caring. Just -- I think he's speaking all the right things to the right person. To us it's just perfect to our team. I think that's what he's best at. 

 Q. Ville, having been through this situation in Detroit very much the same kind of situation Chicago is in right now, do you have any insight into what that team is feeling with a chance to wrap it up here? 
 VILLE LEINO: Well, last year -- it's tough time. You just want it to be over with. You want to be winning and raising that Cup. It's just something you try to block out, but it's still there. It's not very easy to shut it out and blank it out. It's going to be there. Hopefully it's going to be a little bit advantage to us. 
 JAMEY HORAN: Thank you. 
 VILLE LEINO: Thanks.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT