ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 8, 2018
Mike Brey
Bonzie Colson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Duke - 88, Notre Dame - 70   
MIKE BREY: They're just such an explosive offensive unit, and tonight we had no answers.  Overall I kind of liked our offensive rhythm, but we just couldn't get enough stops.  We had some key turnovers in the second half when we had it to about 10, that was the difference, and Bagley was just the first pick in the draft.  He made a couple, and I just said to myself, wow, he's really good.   
I'm very impressed with what our guys did here to get to this point.  We have emptied the tank, and we'll see what our fate is down the road.  Whatever it is, we'll be accepting and proud, and we're actually getting healthier, so I look forward to playing in the postseason because we're feeling a little better.   
 Q.  How did you feel at halftime, 41-37?  
MIKE BREY: I told our guys we're in a lot better position than we were the night before.  You know, I mean, we were laughing, like this is -- we're in great position.  Even at the 15-minute mark when we made our run, we kind of made a reference.  But that's a different animal out there tonight when they're in an offensive rhythm like that.  You know, you're darned if you do, darned if you don't.  They made all these threes early, we didn't want to help in the post because we thought we could maybe absorb twos, but then Bagley was just unbelievable.   
 Q.  Bonzie, what was it like playing against Bagley tonight?  
BONZIE COLSON: Yeah, you know, since I've been here, he's one of the toughest players I've ever gone against.  He's really explosive as he has a really explosive first step, so a lot of respect to him and how he played.  He deserved all the honors he got this year, and he's a heck of a player.  I respect him a lot.   
 Q.  You said your team is just getting healthy.  What did you guys get out of this tournament having your starting lineup together for the first time?  
MIKE BREY: Yeah, I loved seeing this group play together for three games, and really four games when you add Virginia, where he played his 33-35 minutes.  You know, we're excited about what the next challenge is in postseason, whatever it may be, because we're feeling a little better about ourselves physically.   
 Q.  When Bagley turns his left shoulder and just goes with the lay-up into the basket, what are you thinking and what's that going to be like at the next level for the NBA guys?  
MIKE BREY: Yeah, I mean, he's really impressive.  I mean, it's -- he's a can't-miss star in my opinion, just watching that tonight.   
You know, they rebound at a level above the rim that I haven't seen in college basketball.  I don't remember some of the rebounds above the rim like that with their size and their athletic ability.  It was interesting to be floor level and see how they explode off the court.   
 Q.  There's a storybook aspect to Bonzie's whole career and staying in school and wanting his diploma; you don't know where you're going, but can you just tell us how you would both digest going from almost a Disney script to maybe not even being in the NCAA Tournament if it comes to that?  
MIKE BREY: Yeah, you know, I think we're -- this has been a really mature group.  They have taken their punches, and we're prepared to go wherever they send us.  You know, when you lose seven in a row and you're under .500, you're talking and dreaming about making a run to get to the bubble, which I'm very proud that we did, but you're also talking very realistically with our seniors that if it's the NIT, we'd be honored, and let's come back to the Garden.  None of these guys have played in the Garden.   
I think we know exactly where we're at.  I'm just glad we're going to keep playing with this group and that he gets to play some more college games.   
BONZIE COLSON: Yeah, I think Coach summed it up.  Myself and the captains and the seniors, we stayed together through it all.  We continued to give confidence to the rest of the players that we could be special, and we know that we're going to play somewhere.  We're excited about it, and we think we gave the committee a heck of a run of what we can do.   
All you can ask from us is just go and give it all and play until the buzzer ends.  Play with heart, passion, energy, and that's what we did today, and you've got to give a lot to credit to Duke.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT