CROSSROADS CLASSIC: NOTRE DAME VS INDIANA
December 16, 2017
Mike Brey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Indiana - 80, Notre Dame - 77   
 Q.  What didn't happen for this team as far as making plays and making decisions?  
MIKE BREY: We're up three.  We're up three, and that's when we go green and switch everything, and we don't want to give up a three.  We talk about when a guy drives, just let him have a layup.  Let him cut it to one, and we'll get it back in and get fouled.  We rotate it over to take a charge, and then it became a three-point play.  That was -- as much as we work on our green defense, I thought we broke down a little bit there.   
 Q.  What's the situation as far as rebounding?  What can you do to kind of close that gap a little?  
MIKE BREY: Tonight wasn't as bad.  It was just such key times where we gave up second shots, just key times.  And in a tough loss, I thought our bench did some good stuff.  Nik gave us good minutes, and D.J. gave us good minutes, and Mooney gave us good minutes, as we're still trying to figure out who comes off the bench for us.   
 Q.  Coach, Austin hadn't played until 21 seconds left in the game.  What was the rationale in putting him in?  
MIKE BREY: Well, he is so good defensively, and he just really moves his feet.  I just love him in there.  We put him in there in game situations defensively.  Back on the other end, he could get fouled like he did.   
We have faith in him.  I mean, he's a defender, and he's a veteran guy who I thought would be good getting out on Hartman.  He's quick that way.  The problem is it comes at the other end of the floor, and he's in there offensively.  But I still like him in game situations because he's so active defensively.  Maybe we should have come back to him a little bit more.  He would have helped us rebound some key rebounds down the stretch.   
 Q.  In the second half, they seemed to go smaller and stuff the ball in more.  
MIKE BREY: Yeah, he beat us up.  I mean, he -- you're worried about giving up a three eventually.  Like we weren't helping much because I thought maybe we'd be -- it was ringing true for most of the game.  I thought maybe, if we didn't give up threes, they wouldn't score enough.  His jump hooks count too, and we could keep a little bit of a cushion.  But, God, did he beat us up, and he was fabulous.   
 Q.  Mike, what's your take on Juwan Morgan, not only how he played today, but the improvement he's made?  
MIKE BREY: He's made great strides.  Archie's done an unbelievable job with him.  He's just a really confident young man.  They're just a tough group, man.  They keep coming at your paint.  They keep coming at your paint.  The guards are driving.  The big guys are banging around.  I like them.   
We were -- you know, we were holding them off for most of the game, but, God, you've got to get a couple more defensive rebounds and good block-outs to get out of there.   
But he's a confident young man right now.  He was fabulous today.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT