MAUI JIM MAUI INVITATIONAL
November 20, 2017
Mike Brey
Bonzie Colson
Matt Farrell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Notre Dame - 83, Chaminade - 56   
THE MODERATOR: We now welcome Notre Dame to the media room.   
MIKE BREY: I'm thrilled with our start.  I thought our defense was excellent.  This team has wanted to have a defensive identity, and tonight we moved our feet and defended well.  We've talked about trying to defend and get to the championship game.  I think early in the season your offense can look up and down, left and right a little bit, but can we rely on our defense?  I was pleased with our start against I think a very good team in Chaminade.  They're going to be very good in their league.  They've got great size.   
 Q.  Can you guys just talk about how it was shooting out there the first couple games today, the shooting percentages were not great, but you guys shoot 54%?  
BONZIE COLSON: Yeah, we wanted to come out and shoot with confidence.  In shootarounds, we concentrated on our shots and getting into a good rhythm.  When we're in good rhythm, we're getting stops defensively.  We feel like we can move with rhythm defensively.  It's great to get stops and kills and shoot with confidence.   
MATT FARRELL: Yeah, we have a lot of confidence in each other.  We tell guys if you've got an open shot, you take it.  Knock it down.  If you miss it, you run back on the next play and get a stop.  So we enjoy playing with each other.  We have fun playing with each other.  We did shoot it well tonight, so hopefully we can continue to do that.   
 Q.  Bonzie, how aware were you guys that this was kind of a big team size-wise, and how did you attack that?  
BONZIE COLSON: Stick with our principles defensively, make sure we grind and talk on the defensive end.  And make sure when we talk on that end and continue to trust each other defensively, it gets us rolling offensively.  But continue to play, and stay in character on both sides of the floor.   
 Q.  Coach, how important was it to not let those guys have hope and stay on top of them and not let them build up maybe that hope and that momentum?  
MIKE BREY: Well, there's no question that's when they've had their upsets and they got off to a great start.  Thank God we were shooting it well too.  Both teams were really scoring early.  We absorb that running three at halftime, then a deep three to start the second half.  I'm starting to think this could be an interesting night.  But, again, I thought we settled in and really defended.   
Matty and Bonzie set the tone for us.  They're our veteran guys.  While some other guys were a little excited in this atmosphere and it was kind of new to them, I thought those two guys really settled.  I was very impressed with D.J. Harvey.  He continues to give us great stuff off the bench, and only getting more confident.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT