NCAA MEN'S 1ST AND 2ND ROUNDS: BROOKLYN
March 19, 2016
Mike Brey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MIKE BREY: We are thrilled to still be alive.  As I said last night, that was a -- what a great college basketball game.  It was just an honor to be part of it and be in it.  Loved how my guys made big plays to advance.
Q. We've been spending a little bit of time with Thomas Walkup and learning about what makes him so versatile.  I was wondering your thoughts on that.  And also, have you ever faced a player who looks that much like his own mascot?
MIKE BREY: That's a good one.  I'll say this about him.  I was telling our staff earlier this morning watching film.  We played in the last -- let's just say the last three years in the ACC.  We've played against a lot of talented guys.  We have not played against a guy who has a better or higher basketball IQ than him.  He really has a feel for the game.
I have the utmost respect for that because that's how we've kind of built our program with basketball IQ guys, but his stuff is the kind of you see with a crafty NBA veteran who's been in the league 10 or 12 years who just takes advantage of young guys.  He's involved with everything they do and then leads.
Just a fabulous player, and he's going to be hard to deal with.  We can't guard him with just one guy.  A couple different guys are going to have to guard him.  His beard's a little better than mine, though, I think, right?
Q. Sort of jumping off of Nicole's question, Brad Underwood said they play positionless basketball, versatile guys, obviously Walkup being the most versatile.  How does that challenge what you do on both ends of the floor?
MIKE BREY: We kind of play that way too.  We have some interesting -- we don't number our guys.  We kind of have basketball players who know how to play.  We have the ability to switch a lot of stuff.  I thought we switched a lot of things last night in the second half that helped us really be good defensively to win the game.  I think you have to be ready to do that against this group.
But they have a great system.  He's done an unbelievable job with the program.  A lot of respect for how he's built it because they've got a defensive philosophy that makes it chaotic, and they run their stuff very disciplined offensively.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT