BIG EAST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 9, 2007
Mike Brey
Colin Falls
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		   MIKE BREY:  Everybody get their money's worth?  That was a great college basketball game, and I'm very proud of my team.  I am so excited about going into next week with this group.  We're very disappointed now because we had a chance, and I thought we gave ourselves every chance to win the basketball game. 
 But our heads will be up by tomorrow morning and we'll be excited about playing again, because we're getting better and I think playing really well at the right time.  Because Georgetown is really, really good.  Really, they are really good. 

 Q.  Can you just talk about Tory's play? 
 MIKE BREY:  You know, we were riding him there and he's a fearless young man.  There's a toughness factor that he's brought to our basketball team. 
 But you know, I think it says a lot about our group because I think we were down seven at that point against maybe a 1 seed in the NCAA Tournament and came out and gave ourselves a chance again.  And certainly we rode Tory and our guys understood to open the floor up and let him go.  He made some great plays. 
 But I don't think we're surprised.  I mean, that's who he's been. 

 Q.  Did you learn a little something about your team being down 7 in this atmosphere and all of the sudden lightning strikes? 
 MIKE BREY:  I told our guys, we've gotten better because we haven't played this well in two games at a neutral site and that's what we played in Thursday and Friday.  So we are taking some good stuff from here, playing fearlessly and being poised.  First yesterday, punched down 9 and then tonight down 7, I think that's all stuff we can build on going into the NCAA Tournament. 

 Q.  Last two games you played terrific, did you -- on the eve of your BIG EAST season, you lose your point guard, did you have any expectation that things would come together as quickly as they have? 
 MIKE BREY:  I'll say this:  I was probably worried, but the team wasn't, and that's what really counts. 
 I think this group felt -- and they kind of pulled me along and got me confident with our win with Louisville and how we got started. 
 You know, watching us through January and the confidence growth of Tory and how these two seniors helped him get confident, you know, I thought we had a chance to be very, very good. 

 Q.  You talked about Georgetown and their seed and how good they are.  Do you hope that the committee looks at you guys and say, hey, look what we just did, look how we competed? 
 MIKE BREY:  That's a great question.  I would think, you know, this is -- it's not a win, but it's a pretty good -- you know, this is a pretty good display of who we are.  And I think our profile is very strong for Sunday evening. 

 Q.  Tory's outburst in the second half, was that an adjustment by you or Tory; was it just you feeling it out there? 
 MIKE BREY:  Well, we had some sets where we just wanted to open the floor and let him go a little bit, and once he got the first one and it was looking pretty good, you know, we rode it. 
 And that's who we've been.  Our basketball IQ is pretty high where we get it to guys who are on a roll and we are able to take advantage of it.  We rode it until they made some changes and switched some match-ups. 

 Q.  Talk about the game tonight. 
 COLIN FALLS:  They got up into us and they have length and we did a lot better than the first time.  I think we came out and competed and didn't let that bother us that much. 

 Q.  The work on the boards tonight when the whole offense and defense was great, how important is that going into the tournament? 
 MIKE BREY:  I was very concerned about that against these guys and to look at the final numbers, that's for us to really build on and I don't know if there's anybody out there that climbs the glass like these guys.  So that's certainly something to build on. 
 As far as his shot, I told the team in there, we would take that shot in every NCAA Tournament game we play to win the rest of the way.  I mean, he got a shot fake, Tory did a great job of exchanging, we got a clean look for a guy who is shooting a good percentage.  If that comes up Thursday or Friday, I will -- we'll take it and I'll live with the results.  I have a feeling it's going to go in. 

 Q.  Talk a little about the tenacity of Carter, Jackson out there, no fear against a big man like Hibbert and just crashing the boards like that? 
 MIKE BREY:  Both of them really got on the back board for us and that helps us.  They are fearless guys.  They are tough, they have got great hands, they are hard-nosed guys.  And they were playing -- I thought they were playing like champions tonight.  Just they were going for it. 
 I told them, I said, "I don't know what seed we are, I don't know where we're going to go, I just want us to play the same way, just come out and really go for it on Thursday or Friday." 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT