ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
February 20, 2015
Tim Southee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. That went as well as you could possibly have expected it to?TIM SOUTHEE: Yeah, it was pretty (Indiscernible) it was almost a perfect performance.  We still had (Indiscernible) side, and we looked at our players, and it's not for us.  (Indiscernible).Q. Have you ever been as in the zone as that?TIM SOUTHEE: Um, it all happened pretty quickly, so we didn't really have time to think about it.  Just worry about the next ball, and it's such a cool crowd and having them behind you always helps.Q. It started off brilliantly as well.  And then you came back in that second burst and that worked.TIM SOUTHEE: Yeah, I think we went out there with the toss and wanted to be aggressive, and we let it sit.  And it gave us a couple of wickets and we just kept the pressure on and kept chipping away.Q. Considering England is a quality side, were you surprised how quickly they folded?TIM SOUTHEE: Yeah, I guess a little surprised.  They are a quality side, and I'm sure they'll bounce back from this performance.  They've got some world class players and they're not far away from, I guess, showing what they're capable of.Q. Coming from the conditions, to roughly what they found today, was that a surprise that you were able to cope with what you were able to deal with?TIM SOUTHEE: Yeah, that was one thing that for us if we won the toss.  It looked like a pretty (Indiscernible) wicket, but we managed to get it swinging.  If we don't get it swinging, it's a different ballgame.  (Indiscernible).Q. How is it to be backed up by some of the captains?  Would you say this was almost the best captaincy team you've been part of?TIM SOUTHEE: Yeah, I think we've seen over the last that he's an aggressive captain, and the way he plays cricket he's aggressive.  I think his bowlers give him the confidence to go out and knowing the captain's right behind taking Fields and I think it's an attitude we pride ourselves on being (Indiscernible) for a number of years now.  And it's an attitude thing I think we get from Brendon himself, the way he throws himself around in the field.  And if he's doing that, it's standard for the rest of the team to follow.Q. The fact that you played One Day International Cricket, did you realize that at the time that you were bowling as best as you had?TIM SOUTHEE: Yeah, someone had mentioned it at the time.  But you sort of try and take it and give it to the way we bowl as a group over a period of time now.  And like I said, I'm sure there will be another time where we're both just as well or something else will bowl better (Indiscernible).  It's fun game of cricket, and I think it was testament to the way we had bowled asa group for a number of games.Q. Was it moving around a lot?TIM SOUTHEE: Well, we hadn't played a One Day game for a while, and for The Oval, it just proved different.Q. Is it surreal?TIM SOUTHEE: Yeah, I think it will settle in in a couple of days what we have done today.  It was a pretty good victory, and an amazing game to be part of.Q. Supposing you could take it into attacking maybe too much, but you seemed to be patient and let wickets come.  Is that how you wanted it?TIM SOUTHEE: Yeah, I think if you do strike in the areas, you'll get bit, and I think that's the ability of our bowlers to take the field and field and get the boundaries, and they still look to take wickets is credit to the way we bowled.Q. Did you have a feeling today was going to be a good day?TIM SOUTHEE: No, we tune-up every day the same.  You take the things you do and the things you do before a game, and today was no different.  So, yeah, it was just one of those days.Q. What did you make the decision to (Indiscernible)?TIM SOUTHEE: I think we knew how fast it was going to be.  (Indiscernible) by it's the rule, so we couldn't have done anything there.Q. (Indiscernible)?TIM SOUTHEE: Yeah, I think he takes a lot of pride out of seeing the bowlers do well.  He's been instrumental in, I guess, the way the bowlers have performed for a couple years now.  Once he does, he's done a great job, but I think we'll be listening to his input.Q. You need to come on there, or when it was over (Indiscernible)?TIM SOUTHEE: No, we bring up sort of the chance to attack, and I guess the way it comes off, it could have been a better move.Q. It's amazing you know what (Indiscernible)?TIM SOUTHEE: Yeah, I think it will be something we'll look back on in time and think of how amazing this occasion was.  It was an amazing feeling to stand out there, and having anything run behind you, and I think that's testament to the brand of cricket we've been playing lately, and I guess it's in watching an exciting brand of cricket.Q. You guys getting back on the grounds, do you think it will be quite tough to manage all of that?TIM SOUTHEE: No, I don't think so.  I think it's the environment we have at the moment.  No one seems to get too far ahead of them selves.  We'll enjoy today, and we'll pack it and move on to the game next week.  The guys have a few days off.  So we'll manage to go away for a bit, refresh, and come back together for next week for another big game.Q. Where does this stand in terms of your days?TIM SOUTHEE: I think it's nothing different.  It's just one of those days where we almost couldn't do anything wrong.  Just kept going and kept going.  It was a bit of a period of time, and it will be something that we look back on time and realize how special it is.Q. Have you always been able to swing the ball that well?TIM SOUTHEE: Yeah, I guess there is a self (Indiscernible).  We did throw out the best wing, and when we see how advantage it can be when he is swinging.  He hasn't really swung a hell of a lot in One Day Cricket for a while, so it was pleasing to be able to swing it, not too old, but having the results.  So, yeah, obviously it's good.Q. Was it hard to get around with the crowd?TIM SOUTHEE: Yeah, it's something we'll look forward to and something you have to embrace.  I think it's a little bit daunting going out there for some people that haven't played in front of those numbers, and the noise can get to you.  But you've got to enjoy it and embrace it because it will go by quickly. If you can't enjoy the opener, in time you'll probably kick yourself and look back on something that's so amazing and something that is the best example.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT