UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
December 21, 2009
Adam Ulatoski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q. How are you? 
 ADAM ULATOSKI: Good, how are you?

 Q. How much -- is there a frustration level if you go back and look at Oklahoma and Nebraska and the offensive production wasn't there? How much do you guys have to change? 
 ADAM ULATOSKI: You know, my focus is Alabama. We're not going to go back and look at the other games. You know, I don't know what the coaches do and all of that of the our focus is on getting better and doing what the coaches ask us to do.

 Q. But you guys want to leave the field feeling like you've done everything you could and people talking positive about you. 
 ADAM ULATOSKI: Right, that's what you always do. That's always the goal. 

 Q. What do you guys feel is on the line? Coach said they have three Suhs at defensive back. 
 ADAM ULATOSKI: They get up there, we'll just have to go out there and play our butt off.

 Q. You were there in '05? 
 ADAM ULATOSKI: Yes, I was on the sideline. I was a red shirt.

 Q. What are some of the experience factors you take from that? You guys were giddy. I was there last week, all week. 
 ADAM ULATOSKI: It's an incredible feeling. You know, we're excited. You know, this is why you come to Texas, you know, for a chance like this. We're going to go out there and try to make the best of it. 

 Q. Do you have to make yourself realize you have to play a game not just X's and O's? 
 ADAM ULATOSKI: No, that's our complete focus. We're not focused on anything other than what we can do to beat Alabama.

 Q. Is it frustrating to you that you're not game planning yet? 
 ADAM ULATOSKI: It's a little bit. But we know that's going to help us get better. So we just focus on what we can control. 

 Q. Is it nice that they've kind of set it up where you're starting over from scratch and not worrying about it right now? Go to Christmas, and then worry and get into a little bit of Alabama? Can you talk about how it's been set up for you? 
 ADAM ULATOSKI: I think it's been good. We've had so much time. We're focusing on the other team. Now it's a time that we can focus on ourselves and improve our fundamentals and everything we need to do. So we're happy for that opportunity. Also anxious to get out there and work on Alabama. 

 Q. What you're hearing is their D-line even harder than Nebraska's? 
 ADAM ULATOSKI: I think they're both really good. They're both a little different. They play a little different style of line, but they're really, really good.

 Q. How do you compare them? 
 ADAM ULATOSKI: Nebraska is more of a read and make plays. And Alabama kind of penetrates and gets off on, you know.

 Q. Can you talk about the change from Colt when you saw him from '05 to now? 
 ADAM ULATOSKI: He looks a lot different, that's for sure. I don't know. I don't know how to really do that. He's probably grown up a whole lot. In '05 he was the guy that's supposed to replace Vince, and you never even hear that anymore. He's become his own person. He's his own legend at U.T. now, and he's done a great job for us?







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT