NCAA WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
December 16, 2015
John Cook
Cecilia Hall
Alicia Ostrander
Kelly Hunter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Good afternoon, everyone.  Thank you for coming to the practice day press conferences.  We'll begin first with the Nebraska Cornhuskers.  We'll ask Coach Cook to give an opening statement.   
COACH COOK: I'm just really proud to be the Nebraska coach for a couple reasons.  One, to have our team in this event.  It's been a long journey since January for us to set the goal to get here, knowing that Nebraska is hosting the Final Four is a big accomplishment.  It's been a long journey.  So, obviously, we're excited to be here.   
I'm also really proud that the state of Nebraska is putting out their best foot forward.  It's a sellout, great arena, great environment for an NCAA National Championship.  The people running this, I've already heard several compliments from other people about how well organized and how well taken care of everybody is.  So Omaha rocks.  They know how to do it right.  It's an honor and privilege to be here.   
THE MODERATOR: Representing Nebraska in addition to Coach Cook.  Cecilia Hall, Kelly Hunter, and Alicia Ostrander.   
 Q.  Coach, as you study Kansas more since Monday's practice, what stands out most about Kansas?  
COACH COOK: They've got a couple of really nice athletes.  Kelsie Payne was named First Team All-American today.  Their center is their leader, an emotional leader.  They're a very emotional team.  She was named First Team All-American today as well.  Right there shows you they've got talent.   
I think they're a very good passing defensive team and solid.  So they're well balanced.  But you pretty much know Payne is going to get most of the balls.  They're just a very tenacious defensive team.  Like I said, they serve and pass well.   
 Q.  Two things.  John, what happened to your eye?  Number two, what do you make of the no West Coast teams here?  
COACH COOK: So the story today is that Mark Manning was so excited that he did a wrestling head butt and took me out.  That's the story today.   
I think it's awesome that four teams are from the Midwest.  I look at it this way is that way back, Nebraska and Texas kind of opened the door, and then Penn State, that it was a non-West Coast championship.  Now you're seeing teams like BYU, Kansas, that are breaking the doors down in regards to anybody can get into this Final Four and this NCAA Championship and any program.  So I think you're seeing great balance across the country.   
It's great for the sport.  I think it creates great stories.  Similar to what men's basketball does in the NCAA Tournament, where a Butler can be in the Final Four.  So it's great that the sport is not dominated by the same teams all the time, and I think it's just making it more and more exciting.   
It's also harder to get to a Final Four.  So the teams that are traditionally there, it's harder and harder to get there.  That's why we feel so appreciative that we got here this year.   
I also look at Texas, who's been here five years straight, which is an amazing accomplishment.   
 Q.  Kelly, this is a Kansas team that's very good serving.  They actually average more aces than you guys do, and you're a very good serving team.  Talk about what you know about their serve and what special challenge that presents.  
KELLY HUNTER: Any time my team can come out and serve tough, that just makes it harder against whatever opponent they're playing.  We have great passers, and I don't think they get enough credit.  I trust them.  I know Coach Cook trusts them.  Everyone trusts them to be able to pass these balls.   
 Q.  Coach, most of your team has no connection to Kansas from the Big 12 days and that kind of thing, obviously, but you do with Ray Bechard.  What's that like seeing him again, and what do you anticipate the reunion being like?  
COACH COOK: We were in a meeting already this morning, and I think Ray's one of the classiest coaches in the country, and he was one of -- coaching, you don't have a lot of friends I guess you'd be close with within your conference, but I always felt like Ray had some connections in Nebraska in Coach Pettitte, so that's kind of where I met him.   
Like I said, he's a classy guy.  I'm really happy for him.  He's really built that program.  So it's great for Kansas.  It's great for the Big 12.  It's great for this part of the country.  There's not a more deserving guy than Ray to get there.   
I hope Lawrence is hopping right now because of him.   
 Q.  Kelly, what's it like to kind of come home and play for a National Championship where you grew up and have two high school teammates with you too?  
KELLY HUNTER: I'm just really excited to be back in Omaha.  This place is sold out, like that's ridiculous, and I think everyone should be excited to be here no matter if they're from there or not.   
Obviously, this for me is huge because, in 2006, when the Huskers were here and they won, that's when I kind of realized like I wanted to be a Husker.  So it's been my dream ever since then, and I know we're all super excited to be close to home to play in front of basically a home crowd.  It's just really exciting to be in this facility and just have a lot of fun out there.   
 Q.  Coach, how surprised were you that you're going to be playing Kansas and not USC tomorrow night?  
COACH COOK: In this tournament, nothing surprised me.  We were so focused on -- I mean, I felt like we had as tough a regional as anybody.  We were so focused on that, I'm not even sure I could have told you we were going to play the winner of the Kansas-USC until after our match.  That's where all of our energy and attention and focus went to.   
I really didn't pay much attention to any of the regionals and what was going on.  The only thing I paid attention to was how many Big Ten teams are in it and advancing because we feel a connection to the other teams in the Big Ten.  Until we got home and started watching, I imagine you look at who the matchups would be.   
 Q.  You mentioned Ray Bechard a second ago.  Going up against somebody you described as a friend, does that change this matchup?  Would it be easier to go up against somebody you don't know very well?  
COACH COOK: No, I don't think it impacts it one way or the other.  I'm a really friendly guy.  I've a lot of friends that are coaches.   
I just think it's two classy programs, and the fact that it's in Omaha and it's Kansas-Nebraska.  Again, I made the comment the other day, I bet you Coach Osborne is really happy right now because he gets Kansas-Nebraska, the old Big Eight days.  Before that, it was the Big Six.  I just think it's a great traditional matchup, and the fact that it's in volleyball is pretty unique.   
 Q.  I know Nebraska volleyball is good, but any other run, 86-0-1, against another team at any level you've been a part of?  Have you been a part of a streak like that against any other team?  
COACH COOK: I haven't been -- that goes way back to probably before I was even born.  No, none of that really matters right now.  What matters is that the semifinals and Final Four.  There's four teams here that can win a National Championship.  I think that's the most important thing.  I don't know what else to really say about that.   
Kansas is a great team.  After studying them on video, I can see why they're here.   
 Q.  John, before you played Washington last week, you were worried about your middles on defense against Washington middle.  Tonight what matchup will you be concerned about for your team?  
COACH COOK: Kelsie Payne, it starts with her.  She gets a million sets and averaging a lot of kills per game.  We're also going to have to control Soucie, who can get hot, and their other middle can get hot.  That center is really good, and she'll set anybody at any time.  Like I said, they're a well balanced team.  So they're going to be hard to defend overall.  But we can't let Payne have a big night.   
THE MODERATOR: Any further questions for the student-athletes?   
 Q.  Alicia, you're a Nebraska girl.  Just talk about playing here in the Final Four here in your native Nebraska.  
ALICIA OSTRANDER: Mine's similar to Kelly's, but Kelly grew up in Omaha.  Coming from western Nebraska, I watched the 2006 National Championship on NET.  So I'd watch that multiple times afterwards.  I just think it's crazy how I started out like 10, 12 years old watching that match, and to end my career here in Omaha playing for a National Championship, or towards that goal, is incredible.  I'm really excited.   
 Q.  Ceci, a lot of these other teams would have traveled here this morning.  What's it like having that goal?  
CECILIA HALL: We left at 10:00 this morning.  It was just like a normal bus trip, I guess.   
 Q.  Obviously, you want to make it to the championship every year, but knowing that it's in Nebraska, when you start the season, is that an extra motivation?  Is it an extra pressure?  How do you guys handle that goal of trying to make it here?  
KELLY HUNTER: I think for us, if we're going to do it, now is a great time to do it.  The Final Four is in Omaha.  We talked about it all season, and it's been our goal all season.  I think it made that goal that much more real.  Every single day we said Omaha, every day during practice.  I think it really gave us that motivation and amped it up a little bit.   
 Q.  Kelly, talk about playing in front of what will probably be a sea of red here tomorrow night.  Fun?  Nerves?  Anything?  
KELLY HUNTER: I think our crowd is amazing.  They've always been amazing from the Coliseum to Devaney.  Now to see this filled up is huge.  Our fans have been with us through losses and wins.  I think they're the greatest fans in all of college volleyball.  I know they're going to be excited to watch us play.  So we need to give them something to cheer for and give them something to root for.   
THE MODERATOR: I'd like to thank Coach Cook and the student-athletes for joining us.  Our next press conference will be at 1:05 with Minnesota.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT