U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 5, 2019
Albane Valenzuela
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You've played in a bunch of these, you know the drill.  What are your thoughts coming off the first round?  
ALBANE VALENZUELA: Yeah, I mean, it was a good -- you take every run under par in a USGA event.  I played pretty steady golf, didn't make anything crazy, had three good birdies on my back nine and hit a lot of greens, gave myself a lot of looks and made a lot of pars, too.  It was just really steady and good golf.   
 Q.  Even on your front nine, the back nine, 3-under coming in.  Anything click in particular for you?  
ALBANE VALENZUELA: I just -- you know, I started hitting my driver a little bit better and my irons were probably a little closer, too.  I think the back nine is a little bit more challenging on this course, maybe a little bit trickier holes, and I was in the rough two times, so that penalized me.  But you know, I think I just gave myself a little bit more looks.  I managed to make the putts afterwards, so that was good.   
 Q.  Speaking of the course conditions, the rough out here is pretty thick.  How important is it to stay in the fairways?  You know that from playing in a bunch of USGA events.  
ALBANE VALENZUELA: Yeah, I think that's the drill when you play in USGA -- U.S. Opens I think it even gets sometimes worse, and last week at Evian, I think that was also really good practice for this week just because the course is so tight and narrow.  I think you understand that you have to hit the fairway, and if you hit it in the rough, you just have to take your penalty and try to get out of the hole even with a bogey and just realize that mistakes happen on this kind of course, but stay patient, yeah.   
 Q.  Five total birdies.  Any highlights that stick out among those shots?  
ALBANE VALENZUELA: I think I hit a really good shot on hole No. 7, that par-3.  I hit a three-quarter 6-iron and had a six-footer downhill, so I think that was one of the best birdies of the day.   
 Q.  I think that was coming off a bogey, too, I believe?  
ALBANE VALENZUELA: No, that was my birdie-birdie.  I made back-to-back birdies.  That was on the back nine, so hole No. 7.   
 Q.  Good first round, it's all about just getting into match play and everything resets, but it's got to feel good to start off well, take some of the pressure off tomorrow.  What's the game plan getting ready for tomorrow?  
ALBANE VALENZUELA: Yeah, I don't think I put that much pressure on myself.  I'm already runner up of this event back in 2017, so now if anything I can only do better or just not make it.  It's match play, it's a very long tournament, that's what I learned from last time.  You've just got to stay patient.  Last year I got knocked out in the first round, so anything can happen in match play, you've just got to play day by day and see how it goes.   
 Q.  Your brother on the bag again.  It's become a tradition here at the Women's Am.  How did he do today?  
ALBANE VALENZUELA: Yeah, it was great.  I think it's always fun to share these moments with him.  He caddied for me, as well, at Evian last week, and it's kind of a family business in the family.  I had my dad caddying for me at the U.S. Open this year and my mom caddied for me at the U.S. Open qualifier, so it's always fun to share these moments with family.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT