U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 9, 2017
Albane Valenzuela
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Just walk me through your day today.
ALBANE VALENZUELA: I mean, it was a good day.  I started with a couple pars, and my opponent made two very long putts for birdie.  You know, I knew she was 2-up after like four or five, but I knew if I just stayed patient, keep on making my pars, and then a couple birdies down the stretch, I would be good.  I made really good putts to save par, as well, so that kind of got me going, and I think my putting was really solid and very steady the entire round.  Nothing too crazy.  I dropped a bogey on 16, and 18 I had a flier, but other than that, it was very steady, bogey-free round.  Pretty pleased with my round.
Q. Did you say you kind of -- was there anything that you maybe changed kind of midway?  You fell behind a little bit quickly but sort of flew back around.
ALBANE VALENZUELA: I really tried to stay very patient.  Match play, you can make six birdies in a row, but if you're not going to miss, you're going to make 10.  It's just a matter of keeping very -- staying very patient, sticking to the game plan, not doing anything fancy, and then if you just do your own thing, it should go the right way.
I was not really focusing on her game for the first like 15 holes, and then that's when you really have to make the quick turn, so obviously I played more aggressive when I had to or more conservative at times, but other than that, I was just very focused and just sticking to my game.
Q. Was there any holes in particular that really stood out to you today in terms of performance?
ALBANE VALENZUELA: I think definitely, so I had a really good up-and-down on par-3, 6th.  I made like a 12-footer or something like that, and then on the next hole, I had a really good birdie that got me going, and I had a really good up-and-down on 10 from the bunker, and a really good up-and-down on 12 where I just flew the green massively and so had to make a lob shot with the bunker, and that was a really fun up-and-down, and that really got me going.
Q. Not to bring up some stuff, but the European Ladies didn't go too well, but do you find that a big motivator coming in here?  Have you put that behind you a little bit?
ALBANE VALENZUELA: Yeah, I mean, it was definitely a bummer.  I really wanted to get that win, but at the same time, I think for my golf, it's good that this happened to me.  You look at great champions like Jordan Spieth, Dustin Johnson, they all got that kind of moment.  If it happens to the best, it also has to happen to amateurs.  I think it was really good for myself.  I think I learned from it, and I know I can lose when I'm seven shots ahead but I can also win when I'm seven shots back.  I guess it's a good golf lesson.  You know, I still finished second.  It's a really good performance.  It's kind of like the U.S. Am.  It's one of those elite tournaments.  You know, my game was great.  I had a bad run of golf, which happens, but no, I take it as a motivator, and it makes me more hungry to come here and just do well.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT