LPGA Q-SERIES
November 1, 2019
Albane Valenzuela
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I have to ask, did we take the midterm yesterday?
ALBANE VALENZUELA: No. My professor was super nice and she said I could take it when I come back. I was super happy. First thing I did after the round was look at my phone looking at that email just like, Oh, it's totally fine. The nicest TA. So I'm really happy.
Q. Do you TA for her class as well?
ALBANE VALENZUELA: No, no, no. Just it's a communication requirement, so...
Q. What's the name of the class?
ALBANE VALENZUELA: Media effects and processes, like a theoretical class.
Q. Interesting. I got to ask, since you weren't having to work on a midterm last night, you were reunited with another member of your family that came in. How nice is it that your mom was able to be here?
ALBANE VALENZUELA: It's so great. I love having my family around and it was definitely a great surprise. She was going to be alone this weekend at home because my brother is competing as well, so it's great that's she's here. I haven't seen her since school started, so it's great to have everyone.
Q. So how long has it been?
ALBANE VALENZUELA: Like a month probably.
Q. What is your brother competing in?
ALBANE VALENZUELA: I think like the Hurricane Tour or something, some Florida tournaments.
Q. Scoring was high today for the field. What was so tough out there today?
ALBANE VALENZUELA: It was freezing cold. It was just freezing. I mean...
Q. Come on. You're from Switzerland.
ALBANE VALENZUELA: It was really cold. I mean, yesterday I came back to practice in the afternoon and I was in shorts and T-shirt, and this morning I was really cold.
I think the first five were definitely challenging. I had to take like up to four clubs more.
Q. Four?
ALBANE VALENZUELA: And keep it down in the wind.
Q. Oh, my gosh. I didn't realize it was that dire.
ALBANE VALENZUELA: Yeah, it was really, really cold. So I think that definitely made it challenging, and then the pins were tougher.
The greens were also a little softer, so more spike marks on the green so it's a little harder probably to make putts.
It was challenging, but that's what you would expect for this tournament.
Q. Do you think it was just the drastic difference in yesterday that made it so extreme?
ALBANE VALENZUELA: Yeah. I mean, you definitely had way longer clubs coming into the green, and it's just cold so you ball doesn't fly as much. I think then also combined with difficult pin positions, it just makes the whole round more challenging.
Q. You're narrowing in on a decision. Are you thinking about that?
ALBANE VALENZUELA: Honestly, I still have one round to go, and I'm just going to play tomorrow and we'll see how tomorrow goes. I think that's my whole mindset was like, You know, there is nothing you can do before it finishes. It's a lot of ifs up in the air.
But one thing is for sure, I'm going to get my Stanford degree. That's something I'm very fortunate and grateful for. It's an amazing opportunity, so I'm definitely going to get that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT