U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 9, 2019
Albane Valenzuela
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Another one down; talk about how you're feeling about your game.
ALBANE VALENZUELA: Yeah, I played really solid today.  I shot 6-under, bogey-free round, so I could not ask for more.  I really stuck to my game plan, and I think as the week went by I started hitting better shots and rolling the putts better.  And great chemistry with my brother.  I think as days go by, we also learn more about the game, the course, and just how I feel this week.
Q. How does he help you out there?
ALBANE VALENZUELA: Oh, he's amazing.  He knows that I have to get the towel at the right time, and I tell him, I think this putt is going to turn this way.  He just checks my line on the putt, and just gives me a lot of confidence.  He tells me to have the game, stay super relaxed, and we laugh a lot on the course, and he tells me a lot of stupid things.  We just have fun.
Q. Yesterday two rounds, today you're going to actually have a little bit of a rest this afternoon.  What's your plan?
ALBANE VALENZUELA: Just maybe a few putts and then go back to my room.  I have some homework to do.  I'm still in school.  Andrea will be in the same basket.
But I won't do too much.  I'll try to relax and actually enjoy the afternoon.  It's kind of nice.
Q. What's your confidence level right now?
ALBANE VALENZUELA: Pretty good.  I think I really take it day by day, but I'm really confident with my game.  I feel more mature as a player compared to 2017, and I wasn't necessarily playing my best golf earlier in the week, but I just relied object my experience, and I think that gave me more success on the course.  Hopefully it will continue.
Q. You mentioned 2017.  What from that experience could you take and learn from?
ALBANE VALENZUELA: Just it's a long day.  It's definitely like a long tournament, and I just need to stay very patient.  You can't really think too much ahead.  Anything can happen.  Yesterday I was 3-down after three holes and managed to come back.  I was only up on my last hole.  It could have happened on the other side.  I could also be 3-up and then lose the match.  You've just got to stay shot by shot, hole by hole.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT