LPGA Q-SERIES
October 31, 2019
Albane Valenzuela
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So second day here on No. 9. You didn't have to take out the umbrella, but did have to put up with some wind. What was it like adjusting to the second round here on this course?  
ALBANE VALENZUELA: Definitely very different. I think it was very gusty out, especially on the back nine. I mean, I had sone wind on the front, but the back was definitely challenging. I had to kind of go back and forth with clubs. Sometimes I flew greens and sometimes it was just fine. But challenging, and just had to stay patient and worked out.   
 Q.  This is now the sixth round of an eight-round tournament. What have these two weeks been like for you just as a student, but also as someone trying to go towards the next step?  
ALBANE VALENZUELA: Yeah, it's a marathon. At the same time, you know, I think I prepared as much as I could, and that's all you can ask for.   
I just try to take tournament by tournament. Even it's two weeks, you still take it week by week. I came on a new course that plays completely different, and I just tried to focus on what I could do here. You just see the outcome at the end. All you can really do is play why I game and see how is goes.   
 Q.  Before you came out here did you have any former teammates or anyone give you some advice to go through Q-Series?  
ALBANE VALENZUELA: Just knew it was long. I think you just know it's a grind. It's eight rounds and anything can happen.   
At the end of the day you just have to play round by round. Eventually I think it just reflects who is ready and who is not. I just try to play my game without putting extra pressure on myself.   
 Q.  Got a couple teammates out here, too. It's nice to see some familiar faces. What is that like? Do you guys get to at least see each other, maybe after a round go out to dinner?  
ALBANE VALENZUELA: You know, I think we're trying to rest as much as we can, so I've personally tried to stay as much in my room, put my feet up.   
But it's nice to see former teammates. Casey Danielson, she was a senior when i was a freshman, so always great catch up with them.   
And Andrea, she's a senior with me, so it was great to see her, too.   
 Q.  I know you talked about it yesterday, but have you been doing some homework on the side? You've had a busy schedule balancing school life as well. What's that been like for you?  
ALBANE VALENZUELA: You know, I tried to do as little as I could but kind of just trying to keep up with schoolwork. I think it also kept my mind away from the golf course, so it was a good balance.   
I'm supposed to have a midterm today. I don't know how that's going to go. We'll see. But just trying to do as much as I can and focus on school, golf, and relax as much as possible.   
 Q.  What's it like telling professors that you're going to have to miss two weeks for some --  
ALBANE VALENZUELA: Three.   
 Q.  Three weeks for a tournament here in Pinehurst North Carolina?  
ALBANE VALENZUELA: Yeah. I told them this is probably one of the most important weeks of my life, so if you could please be fine with it. I think we're very fortunate at Stanford. They really understand what it's like to be a student-athlete. They're always very supportive.   
Some a little more and some a little bit less, but overall I've had a really good experience with the professors. Always been very understanding and they know we have -- you know, Stanford students do their homework, so there is no problem with that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT