ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 10, 2013
Jeev Milkha Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How is it to be back here at the Aberdeen Asset Management Scottish Open?   
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   It is fantastic to be back at The Scottish Open, Aberdeen Asset Management, I just love it to be back.   It brings you positive vibes.   Gives you a good feel, and I'm looking forward to this week.   Especially when you walk around and everybody is congratulating you still; it's been a year.   I think it's a good feeling to have.   
   
 Q.   And superb memories of when you finished it off and waited to see what would happen?  
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   Yes, for sure, I was enjoying a cup of tea and some chocolate cake, warming myself up, and after 25 minutes, here I am going in for a playoff.   I think the golfing gods were on my side, and it was a fantastic way to win.   I'm looking forward to be back and playing again and making the most of it.   
   
 Q.   I take it was fantastic to win on a links course in the Home of Golf, and therefore, all the more special to be playing this form of golf again.   Doesn't happen often.   
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   Yeah, does not.   Look forward to and winning at the Home of Golf on a links course is something special, especially coming from India.   I just want to enjoy this week, make the most out of it, and if I can win again, I think that will be icing on the cake and on my way to The Open Championship.  
   
 Q.   Why, especially coming from India?   
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   Because there are not many links courses in India, or I would say there are none.   So I did not grow up playing golf on a links course, and I've just played links golf in Europe, and especially Scotland has the best links courses in the world.   I just hope that The Scottish Open stays on a links course and goes all over Scotland and play the beautiful, links courses and enjoy it.  
   
 Q.   What is it you love about links?   
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   It's a golf course where you are close to nature.   You have to have a lot of distance control.   You have to have a lot of feel, imagination.   
So that's why I love links golf.   What links golf brings to you is feel, and if you have good feel, you can play well on a links course.   
   
 Q.   How is your feel, how is your touch, how is your game?  
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   My feel and touch is very good right now, so I'm looking forward to this week.  
   
 Q.   You could have been elsewhere; there's a very important event back in India this week?  
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   Yes, I could have been, but the whole family, especially my father, wanted me to be here, and also I wanted to be here to defend my championship which is very close to my heart.   I'm here defending it.   The movie releases on Friday, and it's a big day for the family, emotional day, but I'll be in touch with them, watching everything closely and enjoying it out here.  
   
 Q.   Did you have discussions?   
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   Yes, we did.   We did discuss about it, and he wanted me, being a sportsman himself, he wanted me to defend this championship, and he said, you can always come back and watch it.   
But the director was nice enough, he did a show for the family before I flew out.   I've seen the movie and I think it's a fantastic movie.   It's an inspirational movie.   It's a message that the whole nation is going to remember.   
   
 Q.   Something else that's fantastic, your trousers.   Tell me about the tartan.   
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   I love it.   I've worn those today and I've decided next day I play in Scotland, one of the days I'm going to wear a tartan trouser.   This is for charity, and there are a few players who have been chosen this week to do this.   This game has given a lot it us and it's always good to give back.   
   
 Q.   Did it take a bit of bravery to put these on?   
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   No, I think it's good to be a little different.   I've enjoyed it.   Especially in Scotland, wearing tartan trousers, I think it's good.   I'm going to make the most of it and enjoy it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT