OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 2, 2013
Jeev Milkha Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   We started at the end yesterday but let's start right at the beginning because that was an explosive start at the second?  
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   It was great.   I hit a good drive in the middle of the fairway.   I had 67 yards to the hole and lob‑wedge, one of those perfect shots, pitched at the right place and went in and that was a jump start for me.   After that I birdied the next and turned at 4‑under par the front nine, so I was pretty happy and pleased with that.  
Could have done better on the back nine but I'll still take 5‑under.   It's a bogey‑free 5‑under, so I'm happy with it.   
Like I said it was a jump start and 3‑under after three, you think, maybe you're going to shoot 8‑ , 9‑under.   Maybe I got a head of myself but still will take 5‑under today, bogey‑free.   The conditions were tough today, wind was coming and going and the rain was coming, too.   So happy with 5‑under and looking forward to come.  
   
 Q.   Elaborate on conditions, we don't expect rain in this part of the world?  
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   Yeah, I don't know, I think we just need to take a golf tournament and the rain comes‑‑ in the desert, too.   It's different.   But happy that I've ended up well today and you know, rain came but we are used to rain playing on The European Tour, so I think all of us had fun out there.   
   
 Q.   Apart from it being hot in this part of the world, did it make a difference to the way you played this golf course?  
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   Yes, for sure.   I think you have to hit a lot more fairways.   If you hit it in the rough, the rough was wet, so it's tough to get the ball out of the rough.   The other part I would say, the positive part is the greens became soft and you could go for the flags so it matches up.  
   
 Q.   Been looking at the boards?   
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   Yes, I did.   Stephen Gallacher has played excellent golf so far and hope he keeps it going, and we give it a go tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   What's needed?   
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   I think 65 has got a good chance, if I shoot 65 tomorrow, but it all depends.   I've heard there's a lot of wind coming tomorrow, so you know, could be different.   We'll see what happens.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT