OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 1, 2013
Jeev Milkha Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Seven birdies, 5‑under par, tell us about your day from your point of view?
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   Putted really well.   It was windy out there and I think I hit a lot of good shots.   The main reason I made seven birdies is I holed a lot of long putts today.   And feeling really confident with my game.   Just keep the form going.

Q.   I know you've done a bit of work on your putting and Jamie Spence does work with us on SKY, how has he helped you? 
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   A lot.   I think Jamie is an excellent teacher.   In fact, I thank him for all he's done with me.   I've been working with Jamie for the last year and a half, and at Scottish Open we had a great chat, and had a great chat this week again, and so I think it's a good team I've got with me.   So I'm looking forward to a good week. 

Q.   Not particularly technical, is he?   He's more about the feel of putting? 
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   Yes and I think that suits me.   I'm a feel player.   Everybody knows my swing, and so I just basically make sure I get the ball around and feel it around, basically.   I like playing golf with imagination and feel, and especially when it gets windy, I just love it. 

Q.   I guess we'll start at the very end if you don't mind, because that was an adventure for the moment, going on top of the stand?
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   Yes, I pushed my drive right and I thought the only place to hit it is towards the stands, and I think I hit it too hard and too high and pitched right on top. 
But still I got a drop at the right drop zone and called the referee and made a good chip and a good putt there, so I'm pretty happy finishing with a par on the last.

Q.   No damage done to a terrific day, as well, and some very good putting. 
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   This kind of round I would contribute to excellent putting.   I've got a very good team here with me, my coach and Jamie Spence who has really helped me with my short game, and I'm looking forward to a good week.

Q.   It's not the first time with Jamie, he helped with Scotland?
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   That's right.   I've been working with Jamie with my putting for the last year and a half, and it's been really good. 

Q.   I'm sure we ask every year but elaborate on playing in this part of the world, because you have quite some support here, don't you. 
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   I just love it.   I feel it's home away from home.   My sponsors, 'golf in DUBAi,' plus the atmosphere is fantastic.   The golf course is in excellent condition, the crowds are amazing and you couldn't ask for better.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT