VOLVO GOLF CHAMPIONS
January 10, 2013
Jeev Milkha Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How was your play?  
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   A little rusty after the break but my short game was really good today and I think that's what put the 69 on the board today.   Hope I can improve on my iron play and the rest I'm pretty happy with.   
   
 Q.   The kind of course you need a good short game?  
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   Yes, I think you do really need the short game because the greens are really small, plus if you miss it on the wrong side, it's tough up‑and‑downs and I think I've recovered really well today and that's why 69 is on the board.   
I like playing in the wind and I think it reminds me of the Delhi Golf Club, this golf course, and you've got to drive it well, and you've got to drive it‑‑ plus you've got to manage yourself well, too, on this golf course, because a lot of wind picks up.   
Delhi also doesn't have this kind of wind.   Everything in the game, it's an old, traditional golf course, but it's really fun and I think it's a tough course.   
   
 Q.   On the subject of the wind, we are sheltered here, and you are actually sheltered in various places on the course but I guess right from the start you feel it off the ocean, don't you?   
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   Yes, and it's gusty, so you have to make sure that you have the right club and that you get the right distance control, and especially when it's downwind, it's tough to control the ball.   Hopefully I can keep it strong the next three days.   
   
 Q.   Have to ask you about health and fitness, finger still strapped?   
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   It's better.   It's on the mend.   Hopefully I don't need to strap it after about two months.   Doctor said four months, and he said just play with it, and make sure if you injure it again, you have to take time off, and hopefully I don't hurt it.   If I stay physically fit, I hope to get back in the Top‑50 in the world.   
I've done a good job with it.   I've taken a few weeks off but I'm moving in the right direction.   I'm going to be all right.   
   
 Q.   Those weeks off, beneficial?   Good break?   
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   Yes, it was great to be back home in India.   It was cold but it was good to be back with the family.   We don't get too much time with them and it's tough to leave them; with my son, you have tears in your eyes and when he's telling you, he doesn't want you to go, but you've got to go.   But hopefully I'll see him soon and get him back on the road.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT