DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 24, 2012
Jeev Milkha Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   I enjoyed the round today.   I putted really well.   I think that's why I shot a 64.   Started with a birdie on the first. 
Birdied the third, fourth, chipped in on the fifth for a birdie.   Parred in all the way.   Bogeyed 10.   Came back strong.   Birdied 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15.   Then birdied 17.   That was a good birdie.   I made a long putt there. 
18, I had a very good chance.   I hit a very good drive.   I was in‑between clubs, a 6 or a 5 to the flag, but I went for the flag.   I was aggressive, pushed it a little bit in the wind and took it to the right.   Hit a good chip to 15 feet.   Tried to hole it for a new course record and had that in the back of my mind.   Wasn't successful, but tying it is good enough for me. 

Q.   How is the hand? 
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   It's on the mend but I would like to take some more time off.   But these tournaments are so good that I can't stay away from them (laughing). 

Q.   Does it mean you've learned how to cope with it, the finger injury?
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   Trying to cope with it.   Still can't hit the shots I really want to hit, especially the punch shots because it really hurts when I dig into the ground.   I think the good part today was I've been driving the ball really well for weeks, but I hit the ball better with the irons today. 
Honestly the putter was really hot and I think that was the reason for a 64 today.

Q.   Do you change targets now, because you obviously moved up, but we'll also expect others to move up, so what is it, Top‑10, Top‑5? 
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   Top‑10, try to go out there.   I had a thought in my mind today to tie the course record.   I said to Janet on the first tee, let's try to get a new course record.   I was close enough and maybe I have the same thought process tomorrow and see what comes my way. 

Q.   Had you teed off?
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   Yes, as we were walking to the tee, I said:   "We are 1‑over par, I think we are way down there, let's try to shoot a course record." 
She goes, "Yeah, I think let's go low."     

Q.   It's not been very good the last couple of days for you, but do you dedicate this round to your mother? 
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   Yes, I dedicate this round to my mother.   She was in ICU yesterday.   I learnt about it just before I teed off. 
She had a bad fall and she's fractured her leg, the knee, plus the fibula bone and she needs major surgery.   She needs some plates put in and that surgery is going to take place tomorrow morning, and we are hoping and praying that everything goes fine and she comes out well.
But the doctors have said, she's 76 years old and it's going to take a while for her to be walking and playing again.   She had knee surgery about ten years ago, both the knees, and she was playing golf every day in the morning, nine holes.   Used to love it.   That was her exercise.   Hopefully she can do it again after five to six months.

Q.   This was at home?
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   Yes. 

Q.   Down stairs? 
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   No, she was in the garden looking at the plants.   We've got a driveway which has marble stone, and there was some water on it and she slipped.   It was a bad fall and just hoping and praying that she comes out of it. 

Q.   How did you block those thoughts when you're out on the golf course? 
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   After yesterday, I just said my mom told me to go out there today and play well, and I said, yes, let's try to give it a good shot and I did.   I will dedicate this round to my mom for sure. 

Q.   And your hand? 
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   I've had this injury since The Scottish Open.   In the second round did I it but kept playing with the injury.   Took a month off after the PGA.   It was on the mend.   The doctors told me, four months, and I said, no, I can't take four months off, that's not in my dictionary.   I love this game too much. 
So I came back after a month and it was going fine until I hit a shot in the Pro‑Am in the Singapore Open.   Flared it up and pulled Singapore, pulled out of Hong Kong and came here and going to play next week in Japan, another Tournament of Champions, Royal Trophy and then start again next year from the Volvo champions. 

Q.   Ligament? 
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   It's a bruised bone, but it's the ligament that holds this joint together and the fingers are just crooked, but that's all right.   Keep shooting rounds like this, it's fine. 

Q.   You're putting it on the club or are you keeping it off the club?   You can hook it like that? 
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   Yeah, basically the problem is I can't hit punch shots because I've got to stay with it, and that kind of gets me.   So I'm basically hitting full shots with my irons.   Driver is no problem because it's off the tee. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT