ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 15, 2012
Jeev Milkha Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   That's a great round of golf, a little bit disappointed to leave that birdie putt short at last?   
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   Yes, I am disappointed.   I think that it was windy and it's tough to get the pace right.   I would have liked to give it a good effort.  
Overall, I'm really happy the way I played today, bogey‑free, 67, I think conditions were quite tough out there much but I'll finish on a good note and think about the birdies instead of the last putt.  
   
 Q.   So close to the top of the leaderboard, will you be hanging about for a while?  
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   Yes, I'm going to have lunch and see what the boys do.   But I think Warren is really playing well and he has a very good chance, and even Molinari.  
I love links golf, and the reason I love it is a lot of imagination and a lot of feel is required, and I believe that's the way golf should be played.  
   
 Q.   I presume when those birdies were dropping on the front nine, you liked your chances?   
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   For sure, if you shoot 4‑under on the front, and then 4‑under on the back, then you have a very good chance.   I did put up a good effort on the back, but, you know, maybe I'm happy I'm not too many short.   
Looks like two or three short.   I 3‑putted twice for pars, but that's the way it is, and it's windy conditions, but the good part is I didn't make a bogey today.   
   
 Q.   Talk about the windy conditions.   
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   For sure, it will give you something to think about.   The first hole, I hit a driver, sand wedge and today I hit a driver, 3‑iron.   So that's the difference, how different that hole is playing and how different the golf course is playing today.  
   
 Q.   So presumably all the more satisfaction to shoot a round like this today?   
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   For sure, this would be the best round out of the four.   
Hoping I'll finish top three or Top‑5 and take the confidence from there.   
   
 Q.   Best result in a while, isn't it?   
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   Yes, it is.   And then after that, start fresh for the next tournament and see what comes my way.   
   
 Q.   Is it fair to say that you've been having good rounds but not necessarily good tournaments overall of late?   
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   Yes, I think to have a good tournament, you need four good rounds and I think this week I've put up four good rounds, so I think it's been a good week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT