EURASIA CUP PRESENTED BY DRB-HICOM
January 16, 2016
Jeev Milkha Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
CHUAH CHOO CHIANG: Thought on the day?   
JEEV MILKHA SINGH: I think the start was amazing.  When I saw red out there, I said the boys are going to get the thing rolling today.  But that's all right.   
At least we got 1 1/2 points, and looking back two years ago, we were in a similar situation, and the boys pulled through.  And I still believe with the pairings that have come out, my boys are going to do well tomorrow.  I think in golf, I believe in the saying, anything is possible until the last putt is not holed out.  So I'm hoping and I believe that my boys are going to go out there and give it their best shot.   
CHUAH CHOO CHIANG: S.S.P. and Kiradech got the lone win for Asia today, but the Malaysians produced quite a halve, to give you a nice taste in the mouth at the end of the session.   
JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yes, I think S.S.P. and Kiradech, I think they had a perfect combination.  I was watching them on the golf course.  Whenever they missed the green, I think S.S.P. came in, or Kiradech came in to save par and make birdies.  I think it was fantastic to watch them.  I think they combined really well.   
Danny Chia and Nicholas Fung, amazing.  I think it's great to watch these two.  I think when I asked them early rear, I said, "What do you think about playing with each other?"   
They said, "We're brothers."   
I said, "This is it.  You're made for each other," and I think they have proven it.   
They pick each other up at the right moments, and I think the way they handled themselves today was fantastic, especially Danny holing the last hole, 6-footer, to get half a point for Team Asia, I think that was fantastic to watch.   
CHUAH CHOO CHIANG: Just talk a little about your singles draw.  Any rationale behind the selection that you've made?   
JEEV MILKHA SINGH: I sent Danny Chia out.  I think he's really playing well, and in front of the home crowds, he's handled himself well.  He would be fantastic to go out, because I think the Malaysians are going to cheer him on.  I want to get some momentum going for my team.   
And after that, I have loaded the team off with the top players.  In the end, I've loaded with some experienced players if it comes down to the wire, and I have a feeling these boys are going to push themselves to the limit.   
 Q.  How important is man management at this moment?  
JEEV MILKHA SINGH: It is very important.  I just want to build momentum, like I mentioned to Chuah earlier.   
Danny Chia being a Malaysian, I think the crowds are going to come out and cheer him on.  After that, the top half, if you see the top players from Asia, they have played enough in Europe.  They have won in Europe.  These boys are playing with the top players, and I think it's going to be fun to watch.   
After that, in the middle, I've put Nicholas Fung, he's playing really well, too, and I think these two pairings are very good for the crowds, also.  Ian Poulter and Danny Chia, and Lee Westwood and Nicholas Fung, I think the Malaysian crowds are going to love this.   
 Q.  What are you going to tell the team, especially tomorrow morning, before they go out?  What will be your word of advice to them?  
JEEV MILKHA SINGH: In fact, I just told them, and I'm going to repeat myself.  You know, when your back is against the wall, the only way is up, or you've just got to push yourself.  So I think that's what they are going to do.  I think there's no other option.   
And they said, yes, we are going to give our best, and I believe them.  They want to go out there and they want to give their best shot possible.   
 Q.  Looking at the draw, did you know the order of The European Tour before you picked your -- is it a coincidence that Nicholas is playing Lee Westwood and Danny is playing Ian Poulter, or was that just by chance?  
JEEV MILKHA SINGH: It was just by chance, because the way the pairings goes, I put in my 12 players, and Darren puts his.  And after that, the envelope just gets opened up and that's the way the pairings happen.  And I'm happy with the pairings.   
 Q.  If you had to look at the first two days, what are the positives that you've had in the four-ball or the foursomes?  
JEEV MILKHA SINGH: I just felt that if you talk about fourballs, I think the Asian players, my team, where the boys have lacked is putting.  I think they have hit the ball really well.  I've been watching them and they have missed a lot of putts.  I think to get the momentum going, you have to hold putts in match-play situations.   
And like I mentioned to you, like S.S.P. and Kiradech, I watched them today.  They holed a lot of 4- or 5-footers, 10-footers.  Even that keeps you going.   
When you start missing a few early on, it kind of gets a player down, but I've been telling them, I said, you've got to keep your spirits up.  You've got to keep going, because it's a new hole.  Like when Nicholas missed the putt on 17, I just told him, it's a new hole, 18.  You don't need to putt your chin down.  Just keep your chin up and you just go out there and do a good job.   
I think Danny did a fantastic job with the drive.  Unfortunately Nicholas hit it left but no problem, Danny came back and Nicholas made the putt.  That's what we need.  That builds momentum.  I think that's where we've just had the short fall, I would say.   
 Q.  Even though they have played 12 matches so far, there's another 12 to go, so just play it like another match?  
JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yes, and they know that, and they have got the experience.  I know they are hungry and they are burning, and they will give it a go tomorrow.   
CHUAH CHOO CHIANG: Captain Jeev, thanks very much.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT