THE IRISH OPEN
June 28, 2012
Jeev Milkha Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  PAUL SYMES:   Great round out there, you just said you enjoyed playing this golf course despite not having much experience.
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   I think links golf, you have to hit a lot of low shots and you have to have a lot of imagination. 
Today I was 20 yards off the green and would never use a putter but on links course, it's a play and that's what I like.   There are some shots out there where you've got to keep it short of the bunker.   You want to hit a driver, but you don't need to.   You play shots where you have low bump and runs, and you have to pitch it at least 20 yards short of the green to make sure the ball runs up to the hole.   So I think a lot of feel, imagination is required, and that's what I love about links golf. 
Growing up, never played a links golf course.   First time I played a links golf course was when I came for the British Open Qualifying, must be about 20 years ago, and enjoyed every bit of it.     Yeah, I've played once as an amateur; I was qualified for the British Amateur.   That could be about 25 years ago (laughs) and enjoyed every bit of it.   I thought, how can you play in this, it's really tough, but now I just love it. 
PAUL SYMES:   You told us on the putting green, a special gift Darren has given you. 
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   Very gracious of Darren and thanks to him.   He's presented me with a 21‑year‑old Bushmills single malt.   I like to have that once in awhile, especially with my father on Sunday nights.   He likes it, as well, Scotch.   So I'll sit down with him, have a nice chat and have a drink with him.   I enjoy that.   

Q.   Did you do well on links as an amateur ‑‑
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   No, I think I shot some big numbers.   I was in the 80s I think.   I thought, my God, this is tough.   I wasn't used to wearing rain gear, and I pad myself up and I played, and I'm hitting a wedge and I'm hitting 3‑iron now.   I didn't qualify for the British Amateur. 

Q.   Is your father here this week?
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   No, he's in India.   But I'm going to hold onto that bottle and take it back.

Q.   Your dad, he was pretty fast in his day; will he get the bottle before you? 
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   I think nowadays I can.   I enjoy the time I spend with him.   It's good to catch up with him and have a drink and have a nice chat and hopefully we can enjoy this. 

Q.   (How is the movie coming along)? 
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   Yes, the director and the producer, they spent a lot of time with him.   They have asked him a lot of questions.   It's an inspirational movie and it's called Bhaag Milkha Bhaag and it's going to be released on the 26th of January next year under the public day, and that's what the plan is. 
I think the review and the shooting is going along really well.   That's what we hear from the director and the producer and the actor.   I think what we hear is the message that's going to be sent out is going to make a lot of difference to the people. 
It's just going to be about his life history from his childhood till he ran.   I think it's going to be really good. 

Q.   Inaudible. 
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   He's been very nice to us.   All of the Indian boys are playing this week.   He knows that once in awhile the Indian likes to drink single malt especially, and he said you have to try Bushmills, and I said, yeah, it's really good, I've tried it before and I'm going to enjoy it now.

Q.   I apologise if this seems a bit preposterous since you just shot 65, but was there any disappointment that it wasn't even lower? 
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   I had a chance on No. 15 for a birdie.   I missed a 5‑footer.   But I holed so many putts from 20 feet, 25 feet.   So I think I would take every bit of it today.   I'm happy with a 65. 

Q.   (Inaudible.). 
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   First time I was interviewed as an amateur like I mentioned to you, but after that, playing on The European Tour for so many years now, since '97, you're free to play a lot more tournaments on a links golf course and that's when I learned how to play links golf.   After that, it's been pretty good to me. 
Last year, too, I enjoyed it, when we played.   It wasn't real links but it was an excellent golf course, hard greens there last year, too, The Irish Open.   I think whenever you have a good start, you have positive memories of the place, you always do well and that's what I went out with today.   But I still feel that links golf is fantastic.   I think we should play more links golf I think on the Tour, if we can. 

Q.   Has it helped yourself and the other players in the field that all of the focus has been on the four Irish Major winners?
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   I would say I just went out there today thinking that I've got to play golf.   Every week you go out and try your best and that's what I was trying.   Obviously if the focus was on me there's a little bit of pressure for sure but I'm pretty happy with the way I played today. 

Q.   (How did you find the atmosphere today)? 
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   Yes, I think the atmosphere and the feel to the golf course, I think is fantastic.   I think it just feels great.   You have so many people come up and watch us, and I think that when you have so many people cheering and you watching you out there, I think you feel great. 

Q.   Is your father involved in the Olympics this year?
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   No, he's not involved in the Olympics anymore.   He just takes it easy now and obviously you can come to him for advice, he does do that.   He basically enjoys his time off playing golf and taking it easy. 

Q.   How much of a goal is it for you to represent India in 2016? 
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   Yes, for sure it is.   I would like to play the 2016 Olympics for sure.   My dad represented India in three I think, so if I can do one, I think I'll be a very fortunate man. 

Q.   Inaudible. 
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   That would be great.   That would be a dream come true.   That's my goal.   I would like to represent India and do well out there. 
PAUL SYMES:   Thank you, Jeev.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT