OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 9, 2012
Jeev Milkha Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JEEV MIKHA SINGH:   It was great.   Anytime you have a bogey free five under, I think you take it, and I played really solid today, two birdies on the front nine and three birdies on the back nine.   Had a lot of birdie opportunities, and five under on the first day is a good score, and I'll take it.   
   
 Q.   Has it been coming?  
JEEV MIKHA SINGH:   Yes.   I've been playing well.   I worked hard this winter.   Last two years I've been suffering with an injury, but this winter I felt really good, worked a lot on my core, and it's stronger, so the back feels stronger, so instead of hitting 100 balls a day I was able to hit 200, so I think it's going to show as the year goes by.  
   
 Q.   It sounds like you've been able to get into the gym and feel physically fit for the first time in a long while?  
JEEV MIKHA SINGH:   Yes.   It feels like that, and you know, when you can work on your game and you know when you walk on the golf course you know what you're doing, it gives you a lot of confidence, and I think this game is all about confidence.  
   
 Q.   Did you ever ‑‑ you must have got so frustrated with that because you just couldn't play at your best?  
JEEV MIKHA SINGH:   Yes.   But I just tried to hang in there, and you know, I couldn't practise the amount I wanted to, but now I'm able to.   So I think like I mentioned earlier, as the year goes by, I think things are going to get better.  
   
 Q.   Is this course pretty much there for the taking because that was ideal conditions?  
JEEV MIKHA SINGH:   Yeah.   It is there for the taking.   The wind didn't pick up when we were out there, and the rough is not up as much as last year, but the greens are pure and there are tough pin positions out there today, so I think it's a great test of golf, and as every year this course is in excellent condition.  
   
 Q.   And that score is going to stand the test of time today, isn't it?  
JEEV MIKHA SINGH:   Yes, for sure it is.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT