IRISH OPEN PRESENTED BY DISCOVER IRELAND
July 29, 2011
Jeev Milkha Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Jeev, often difficult to follow a really good round with another satisfactory one, how do you feel about your day?  
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: I'll take this. 1-under today, the way I drove the ball today, I struggled off the tee. Made a lot of par saves today. So I think I'll take this 1-under.   
  
  Q. You told us your coach and your friend was around last week and he's here again this week. Will you go and do some work with him this afternoon?  
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yes, for sure. It was cold out there, and I think I wasn't going left with my swing. I'm going to go out and work on the range.  
  
  Q. You love to play golf and play hundreds of tournaments normally but were told you were getting injured too much. How difficult of a decision was it to calm down, or have you not done so and not taken the advice?  
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: I just love playing, and I just feel the more I play, the better I get. I just want to stick with that. I really have cut down on my tournaments. So hopefully I will not get injured in the future, and I'll improve on my game.  
  
  Q. India are playing cricket against England at the moment. Are you watching that this afternoon?  
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Not really. This game takes up so much of my time, I just focus on this and the movies I watch.   
  
  Q. You made the golf course look easy yesterday, was it more a struggle today?  
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yes, it was. I shot 1-under but I'm happy with that. I didn't drive the ball that well, and the places I hit it and the par saves I had -- I will take a 1-under today.  
  
  Q. Seemed like you had to do a lot of scrambling to save the pars. But was the putting as good as yesterday?  
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: No, it wasn't but still good enough to make me shoot none 1-under, and I've got the next two days to work on a few things and make the most out of it.  
  
  Q. Was the course a little bit more difficult today?   
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yes, for sure. I think the pins were tucked away, and it was tougher to be aggressive on certain flags. And basically, when you hit it in the rough, you just basically hit it on the green and try to make a long putt or 2-putt and just move on.  
  
  Q. Looks like you're going to be one of the last players out tomorrow, what will you do between now and then?  
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Just basically work on my swing and my short game, and just relax today, watch a movie tonight and come out fresh in the morning.  
  
  Q. Can I just ask you about 11, 12, 13, tough holes, three tough holes.   
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yes, they are really tough. I think you've got to drive the ball well, and you've got to hit a long iron shot in there, just 2-putt and move on. That's what I did today for those three holes, and played them in par and if I can do that for the next two days, I'll take it and move on.  
  
  Q. Is that the secret here, to get over those three holes?  
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Not really. You know, those are tough holes, I agree, but it's a very demanding golf course, and there are a lot of slopes on the green, so you have to make sure you hit it at the right level.   
  
  Q. You obviously backed up a very good round with another good round because Pádraig Harrington is saying it's a tougher course today?  
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yes, it is, with the pins tucked away, it is tough and it's playing long.   
 Shooting 1-under today, I will take that, and look forward to the weekend.   
  
  Q. In terms of your 63, it isn't easy to go out the next day, is it. You start to compare rounds hole-by-hole almost?  
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yes, I think you do, but it's a new day for you and you've got to forget yesterday and get the most out of it.   
  
  Q. How do you prepare yourself for a big weekend in front of big crowds?  
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: I've won before, some big tournaments, and I've put myself in a good position, and hopefully I'll just go it out there and make the most out of it. If not, at least I know I put myself in a good position and give it a try.   
  
  Q. How hot does your putter need to be over the weekend, because you probably putted your best round in the first round.   
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yes, I think I did. I've got to stay positive. I'm rolling the ball well and hopefully the same thing happens to me for the next two days.   
  
  Q. The first --  
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Well.  
  
  Q. Just in the hazard on the first or well in?   
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Well in. And I was very fortunate I think. I hit a sand wedge just trying to get it out. It could have gone any where, because there are stones and I think the stones got in between the club and the ball and I was very lucky the ball just went straight left in the fairway. It could have gone right. It could easily have gone right. I think that was a good break.  
  
  Q. Was it debatable whether to try and hit it?   
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: No, I think that I'm that kind of a player, I like to go for everything.   
  
  Q. When you start off on a second round after such a good first round; there a temptation to just keep trying to match that opening?  
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yeah, you normally take those same thoughts out on the golf course, and you know, the most important thing is you don't need to get frustrated if you're not 4-under after nine like I was yesterday. I was even par, and I said, hey, there are a lot of birdie holes. Just hang in there and make the most out of it. Just hung in there, shot 1-under, tough pin positions, that's fine.   
  
  Q. So you don't go out thinking you're going to consolidate on what you built yet and be more conservative today?  
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: No, you try to go for it. Golf is such a game that some day it is happens and sometimes it didn't, and today is one of those days where I just felt -- I wasn't driving the ball well and had to hang in there and make the most out of it and that's what I did.  
  
  Q. From an Irish perspective, it's the big week, but when you're not from Ireland, is it still a good week to come and play?  
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: I think it's fantastic. I think the crowds and the people that come out and the way they cheer you up, I think it's fantastic to see -- fantastic golfing etiquette by the crowd, and I think it's very encouraging to see when you come out and play in front of such crowds.   
  
  Q. Do you take advantage of the entertainment that's on offer and go into town or anything?  
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yes, I've been going into town. I've been having the Thai food the last two nights. I think it's fantastic. I was watching in the town centre, it was lively and everything was happening out there, it's a nice walk and I was there. Had a nice walk after my dinner and came home.  
  
  Q. But a movie tonight?  
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: In the room.   
  
  Q. What's missing from Killarney?  
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Nothing.   
  
  Q. A good Indian restaurant?  
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: No, I found one Indian. But the Thai is fantastic, the Thai restaurant I've been going to.   
  
  Q. You're usually a man that finds the best Indian rest round in town.   
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Indian, 50/50, I'll say the one I went on Tuesday. (Laughter) But I will wait for the Indian. I'm going to have Indian next week, anyway. I'm going home so I might as well have something else.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT