IRISH OPEN PRESENTED BY DISCOVER IRELAND
July 28, 2011
Jeev Milkha Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MICHAEL GIBBONS: Jeev, very well played. Paul McGinley just described that as the pest putting round he's ever seen. Would you agree.
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: I did feel like that today. I think it's one of the best putting rounds I've ever had. Started off well, and, you know, first hole, I holed a good 5-footer, and after that, I just went, oh, well, feels pretty good today. 
 Made some putts, starting from the fourth hole, and hit the ball well, too, and after that just kept going and built up on my confidence, and an 8-under today.
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: At one point I think you thought of the magic number.
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yes, I did, on 14 -- in 15, in fact, I hit it to about 12 feet and I said, birdie the last four, you can shoot a 59. And it's possible, you've got a par 5 coming up. And I don't know whether that was a good thing or a bad thing, but it did cross my mind and gave it a run. But I'm still happy with 8-under.
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: Is that kind of score on around this golf course if you get it going, do you think? 
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: I think it's a pretty good round, especially when you're putting well. It gives you a lot of confidence. And especially when you get on to the green, you know that you have a good chance to hole it. That's what happened to me today. And I think 8-under on this golf course is a good round. 

 Q. Was that putting performance in the works, was that on the way, or have you been putting well recently or did it come from nowhere?
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: No, I putted well last week. That was my best finish of the year, in fact. I finished sixth last week. And my coach is here, he's a friend of mine that coaches me. He's here with me and he's helped me quite a bit with a few things, and just working on that. And that finish last week gave me a lot of confidence, too. 

 Q. Do you feel after all your woes that this is the light at last at the end of the tunnel, Jeev?
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Hopefully it is. I just feel that I'm getting better. My game is getting better. Especially my health. I was injured for four months last year: Shoulder, and then bulge in the disk, L-4, L-5, that set me back quite a bit. 
 Basically what we are working on with my coaches is to clear my hips because I've become so lazy trying to protect my right side that I don't get onto my left side in my golf swing, and that's why I sometimes block the ball right. 
 And that gave me a lot of confidence last week, because just my main swing thought was just to finish on the left, and today the same thing I did, and I hit the ball much better. 
 So hopefully in a month's time, I'll be doing a lot of yoga, physios have been working on it, hopefully in a month's time it's strong enough to take everything. So should be good. 

 Q. Did your two on Sunday on the 17th make you feel like Superman?
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Gave me a lot of confidence for sure. I give a lot of credit to Janet for picking the right club because that was the toughest thing to do (laughing). From 140 yards, you're just trying to hit a chippy 7-iron and if you don't get it right, you hit it short or you hit it over the green. I hit it right, and that did give me a lot of confidence.

 Q. Did you get the right break from the wind last week? The players were are saying they were waiting for the wind. 
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: When I got on to the 17th last week, I was thinking about the guys putting out on 18. We got up to the ball, got the yardage and Jan says -- I said, 6, and Jan goes, "No, I think it's a 7, and a hard one: Got up there, never thought about anything just hit it, and I pulled it off. That's a good thing in golf when you have no thoughts and you just hit the shot. And it goes about 20 feet right of the hole, pin-high. So any shot on the green I'll take any day, in that kind weather; I'll take a 2 on any that hole any day with that wind.

 Q. Did you fear for your career? What were you being told about your problems?
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: They simply said, I play too much and that's why I get injured so much. But I just love playing. And obviously the more I play, the better it gets for me, and that's why I keep going ahead. But I am working with a lot of physios, trying to work a lot of my core stability, plus a lot of flexibility, too, because the body is taking quite a bit week-in, week-out. That's what I'm trying to do, basically and hopefully keep myself away from the injuries.

 Q. How does yoga help? 
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yoga is basically stretching, meditation, for good focus, staying in the present, and basically you're working on the whole body, and especially your mind, too. Overall it's been great for me and I've been doing yoga since I was 14 years old, and it's just that my back maybe must have gotten weak and that's why I got injured. My basic focus now is a whole body, a lot on my back, a lot of back exercises in yoga.

 Q. Have you missed not being in the Majors?
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yes, I do. Especially when you've been Top-50 for the last -- since 2006, for four years, five years, and you get injured and you just are outside the 200 now, and it just feels that you're left out. 
 But, you know, the main thing is, I'm playing again, and that's the most important part with all of the injuries I've had. If I stay fit, I feel that I can get back in the Top-50. 
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: Jeev, very well played. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT