UBS HONG KONG OPEN
November 20, 2010
Jeev Milkha Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  Third Round 66. 14-Under Total. 196

 Q. Still want to have a chat?
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Of course, still right in it.

 Q. Given your position on the leaderboard, you should be chatting?
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: My name wasn't showing up on the leaderboard today, but it's tied, three players tied for 14 -- I'm happy with the round. Played really solid, hit 17 out of 18 greens, and I think the one I missed, I used the putter there, too. I'm pretty happy with my ball-striking. Thought I would make a lot of birdies on the back because that's the scoring nine, but I guess I made it up on front nine. I shot 3-under on the front and on the back I shot 1-under for 4-under. I shot bogey-free round pretty happy.

 Q. The back has been pretty kinds to you over the previous two days but just not running on the greens today?
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yes, I think in the back, I left a few putts out there, but that's all right. Tomorrow is another day and I'm in the thick of things right now, and hopefully will be three or four going into the last day and give it a shot tomorrow.

 Q. Am I right to presume that there should be enormous satisfaction with hitting so many greens; your hallmark, really. 
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yes, I'm really happy. Days when you hole putts, you shoot a good number and I'm sure happy with 4-under, it's not bad on this golf course, especially playing in the last few groups, give it a go.

 Q. First time in a little while when you've produced such numbers in regulation?
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yes, it's been a while and it's always good when it comes your way.

 Q. What's it down to? 
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: I think following my routine and process and I think that's what is helping me. I think I need to do more on the putting green. 
 I've been doing quite well on the iron play and the driving part, but on the short game, you know, you get eagle to see that ball go in and that's when you kind of just lip out or something. I just need to follow my routine on the greens too.

 Q. Does that mean you've not been following your routine and process all the time?
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Not all the time but trying to get more consistent.

 Q. What's needed on the final day?
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: I think winning score is going to be close to about 20-, 21-under, and I think I need 7-under tomorrow. 

 Q. Capable? 
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yes, it's capable, and I'm going to give it a go and see what comes my way. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT