UBS HONG KONG OPEN
November 19, 2010
Jeev Milkha Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  Second Round 67. 10-Under Total. 130  
  
 CHUAH CHOO CHIANG: Thanks for coming in. Well played today, 10-under par. Nice to be leading going into the weekend.  
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yeah, pretty happy, keep doing what I've been doing the first two days and see what comes my way.  
 CHUAH CHOO CHIANG: A solid start on the back nine, which was your front nine today; but the leaderboard is challenging on the front side. Is it the way the course is playing?   
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: I didn't see, it is. I think the back nine is the easier nine, and started off really well. Shot 5-under, and I thought, let's do the same on the front. I think I got ahead of myself. Especially on the third hole, I drove it in the fairway, and I'm normally a fade player and I've tried to draw a 3-wood into that flag which is abnormal for me. I think I got ahead of myself there; management was wrong, and hit it in the water and made a bogey.  
 After that, I birdied the next one and parred all the way in and just 3-putted No. 3. That's a good flag on that hole -- on No. 8, sorry. And I finished 10-under. But overall, I'm happy the way I'm playing. I'm striking the ball well. I'm managing myself well, too, except today on a few holes, and hopefully learn from that and play well on the weekend.  
 CHUAH CHOO CHIANG: It's been a while since you've been in this position, must be a nice feeling to feel your game is back on top.  
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yes, it's been a while, especially this year, the amount of injuries I've had. Still not 100 per cent, but I'm moving in the right direction, and especially when you put yourself in a good position like this, I think it gives you a lot of confidence and I think I'm feeling pretty good about it.   
 And hopefully, you know, I'll keep going the way I am and good things happen to me by the end of the week.   
  
  Q. The way the course is playing today, do you think we're going to see some more low scores this afternoon?  
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yes, for sure. The front nine is a tougher nine but on the back nine you can really go low and there are going to be a lot of low scores. I think -- I feel the end of the day, the leading score is going to be close to about 13- or 12-under par.   
  
  Q. Your injuries, how do you feel that's going to hold up over the weekend considering you'll be in contention and have to putt yourself?   
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: I'm feeling [] pretty good. The good part is we have got good physios helping me out and doing a lot of work with them. The only drawback is I want to hit golf balls but I can't, the amount I want to. But hopefully, you know, I'll just do some mental training and get over that hurdle and make the most out of it.   
  
  Q. Just limiting your practise?  
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yes, it is, because the more golf balls I hit, flares up, and I want to hit balls, but I can't. And that's what's been the problem this year. And I do like to hit a lot of golf balls, but one good thing is I can work on the short game.   
  
  Q. What injury is it?   
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: I've got tendonitis in my right shoulder, and kind of hurts quite bad, but I've got a lot of work done this week. In fact, I took Monday, Tuesday off, and didn't touch a club. Basically played two holes Monday morning in Singapore, and after that, I flew up here. And Tuesday, I was supposed to come out but I didn't. Just the whole day was massage, physio, a lot of work on it, and then my week started from Wednesday.   
  
  Q. Will you be heading back to the States this year, or will you be focussed more on The European Tour, Asian Tour?  
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Next year I'm going to focus on the European Tour.   
 But I am going to play; I've got a medical there for four events. I'm going to go there in May. But my main focus is going to be The European Tour next year.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT