UBS HONG KONG OPEN
November 18, 2010
Jeev Milkha Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  First Round 63 -7  
   
  Q. Thanks for talking to us. How is fatherhood treating you?   
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Great. This is the second week with them. I'm enjoying it. Trying to catch up on the sleep. I'm fortunate enough, I've got two rooms, so it's been great.   
  
  Q. How is Hong Kong treating you?   
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Great. After this round, I love it more. I've always played well on this golf course and I think a score like this gives me a lot of confidence going into the next few days.  
  
  Q. What did it mean to you to win the Asian Tour Order of Merit?   
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: It was fantastic, especially when I did it in 2006 -- and it was better in 2008 after the Singapore Open win, with the star-studded field there. And I just feel that, you know, something like that, you always cherish for the rest of your life and always stays with you.  
  
  Q. If Noh was to win it at 19, how high would you put that achievement?  
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: I've played a lot of golf with that young boy and I think he's got a lot of talent, he's a superstar in the making.  
  
  Q. Kind of a slow start on the front nine, presumably it's the harder nine, isn't it.   
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: It is. The front nine is a tougher nine with two tough par 3s in there, and the ninth hole, also. I hit a lot of good putts. Didn't hole many putts in the front nine, turned at 1-under, saved some good pars, also, like the first and the ninth, and on the back nine, I made a lot of putts, hit the ball well and you know, shot 6-under and I will take a 7-under on this golf course.   
  
  Q. You spoke about your liking on this golf course, what is it exactly which fan sees you?   
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: What I like about this course is it's an old-traditional golf course and you have to think a lot. You have to manage yourself well and if you've hit a bad shot you've got to take your medicine and just try to take a bogey or try to make an up-and-down from wherever you are. If you try to get smart, so many trees, if you try to hit a hook or high shot when you're stuck, you can make a big number. So you try to take your medicine and move on.  
  
  Q. This is almost like the old Jeev Milkha Singh playing good golf again.   
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yes, I'm feeling good, my shoulder is getting better, it's not 100 per cent. I've been getting a lot of work done with the physios. I'm much better but not 100 per cent, so I'm just waiting to play another two events and then head back home and try to get fit and get right for next year.  
  
  Q. When you come to the golf course, you see the guys like Rory and Graeme shooting 7-under, 6-under, does that change your mind-set? What mind-set do you have on the first tee?  
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: My mind-set was just go out there and follow my process on the tee and see what comes my way, and I stuck with that today really well. I wasn't thinking about what I want to shoot, you know. I was just thinking a shot at a time and see what comes my way.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT