OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 4, 2010
Jeev Milkha Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Tell us, is everything well, what's your son called?  
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: I can't explain it, I'm so excited, in fact, I had tears in my eyes when I saw my son for the first time. It's a great feeling. I think you don't realise it until the time you have it. And my wife, when the baby came out of the surgery room, which we had a C-section, so my wife was doing well, everything was under control, and baby was doing fine, too. So I can only thank God for this.   
  
  Q. And that was Friday?  
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yes, Friday the 29th.   
  
  Q. And all well, I take it? What did you call the baby?   
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: We haven't named him yet. I think we can name the baby after two or three weeks. We have to wait until they come home. They are still in the hospital in our hometown in India. Wife had a C-section, so she's got to be in the hospital for another day. I think she's going to come home tomorrow.   
 Just fantastic, and now they are going home hopefully tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Now you win the Desert Classic to go with it, that would be a nice double?  
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: That would be great. I didn't do much last week. So just pretty pleased with the round today. Came out here, did a little bit of work yesterday, so that helped.   
  
  Q. Mind was clear, just to get on to the golf. How about today, what was the key to getting around in 4-under?   
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: I think I managed myself fairly well. I think days like this when it's so windy, you have got to miss the ball on the right side, and you've got to make a lot of up-and-downs, and I did, and hole some good putts for birdies. And had a good middle stretch from the 9th and 12th and birdied all of them.   
 Just hung in there, and, you know, walked away with a 4-under.   
  
  Q. You get the best of the conditions hopefully in the morning now to see if you can go forward.   
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yes, hopefully, if it's this breezy tomorrow, I'll make the most out of it in the morning.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT