VOLVO WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
October 29, 2009
Jeev Milkha Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   GORDON SIMPSON: Well, Jeev, they do say beware the injured golfer. I know the foot's not great, but that must make it feel an awful lot better now. 
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yes, for sure, it does. I basically wore the wrong shoes. My right arch is gone and I think my mistake was I threw my shoes away after not just Turning Stone in the U.S., but the shoes which have insole fitted to my right foot, and it was wet out there. So I thought I had exactly the same pair in the golf bag but I didn't. 
 So I played a bit on Friday and my fascia muscle got inflamed which runs across the ankle into the foot and couldn't play on the weekend. I played, but I was putting weight on my right foot. Pulled out of Phoenix last week, went home, I think that helped. I've been icing it and just getting some ultrasound done. Held up today but the big test is tomorrow, 36 holes. 
 GORDON SIMPSON: And match-play golf seems to bring out the best in you, I see. 
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: I haven't done too well in the Match Plays before, but it's a good start. I think I got off to a good start today with the putts. I holed some good putts, and I think let me get comfortable in the back. 

 Q. What do you feel the big differences were between you and Lee today, looking at your result? 
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: I think match play is such a game that it all comes down to putting, and I think I've holed a lot of putts and I think that helped me get there. 
 I think any given day, in this game, I think anybody can take it. It's just one of those days I holed a lot of putts and I got away with it. 

 Q. You actually wrote last week that you were facing a lengthy layoff. 
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yes, I was looking at it. I got a lot of ultrasound done last week, and also I iced it five times a day. I think that really helped. And I have not walked since Sunday the week before, and that really helped. I basically played in the cart yesterday. That was a big bonus. 
 Today it held up. A little bit of funny feeling in the foot on the 18th, but hopefully I'm going to ice it again. The big test is going to be tomorrow, 36 holes. 

 Q. It's a collapsed arch, is it?
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yes, my arch is collapsed and it's happened, what, four or five years ago. So I have to wear insoles which give me a support system. And I went out last year for five weeks, and I think the approximate mistake was when it happened, I kept going. 
 So I learned from it, I said right away you might as well take a week off, at least if you want to last for these big events which were coming up. 
 So I did that. It's helped me but I just hope that it lasts out the next two days. 
 GORDON SIMPSON: Do you feel difficulty convincing yourself through the ball? 
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: The only problem is that you can't put any weight on the right foot because it hurts so much. So it's the problem of transferring the weight to the right side when you swing. I think that's when the main problem comes into play. 

 Q. What are your thoughts on tomorrow's matches, Camilo Villegas and Ross Fisher? 
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: They are good players, and like I mentioned earlier, in match play I think anything can happen. It depends on whoever holes more putts, and we'll see what happens. I'm excited about that. 
 GORDON SIMPSON: Are you happy with your hole difference; six could be a big win when it comes down to the crunch at the end. 
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yes. And also, you know, if my foot gives away, at least I have a cushioning. So let's see what happens. 

 Q. Surprised by Lee; he's been going so well. 
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Lee's been playing excellent golf, but I think today I got lucky with my putting and got away. 

 Q. What were your overall thoughts on the course today? 
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: It's a great match-play golf course. I think it's got five par 5s, I think the condition is excellent, the greens are rolling perfect, and also, you know, if you miss the ball on the wrong side, you've got no shot basically. 
 And the way they have looked after us this week I think with the hotel and the players' lounge and everything else, I think it's been great. 

 Q. Have you just qualified for the PGA TOUR next year? 
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yes, I think I have enough money. That was the main reason I pulled out, also, from Phoenix, because I had a cushioning, otherwise I had to play with an injured ankle. I made $823,000 and that should be enough. They have got two events left. They are looking at about $720,000. So I said that if I want to last out for these big ones, I can take that week off and I went up to Phoenix to apologize to the sponsors, because they had given me a sponsor's invite. It was a tough decision but in the end I think it worked out much better because the ankle is feeling much better.

 Q. Are you in next week?
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: HSBC, yes.

 Q. That counts for the PGA TOUR?
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: It does not.

 Q. But it's a World Golf Championship. 
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: It doesn't count on the PGA TOUR. Only the winner gets into the SBS. 
 GORDON SIMPSON: I think it's because the season is effectively over but it will count next time, as I understand it. Thank you very much, Jeev. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT