TURNING STONE RESORT CHAMPIONSHIP
October 4, 2009
Jeev Milkha Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Congratulations on a spectacular round. The hole-out at 4 really got it going.   
 JEEV M. SINGH: I think it was fantastic today. I needed this run, obviously. I'm sure a low one will finish Top 10. Hopefully I do still finish Top 10 to get into Vegas and make enough money to keep my card for the Tour, on the Tour.   
 I started really well, birdied No. 3 and then holed out on No. 4 for an eagle. So that was a jump start.   
 But the only drawback I feel today was the par-5s. I didn't birdie any one of them.   
  
  Q. Wow. Wow. To shoot 64 and not get the par-5s.   
 JEEV M. SINGH: That's right. And I had birdie chances on every single one of them, but didn't convert, but hey, I'm still happy shooting a 64. I played really well. I'm happy with the game.   
 I've made two bogeys the whole week, and last two rounds I haven't made a bogey, so I'm pretty happy with my game.  
  
  Q. Tell me about your status then. I know you're a member of every other Tour. You've been playing all over the world. What is your status on the PGA TOUR?  
 JEEV M. SINGH: I'm a temporary member right now, and in the 12 starts as a top 50 player, you've gotta make as much as 150 tie. I did that. So I took up a temporary membership. So I need to make as much as 125th tie. So hopefully this week if I stay in the Top 10, that should be enough money to be in the Top-25 and play out here next year.  
  
  Q. Or at least get you to Vegas where you can continue to do it and keep going. Are you going to stay through the Fall Series until you get it done?  
 JEEV M. SINGH: Yes. I think I'm going to play Vegas and also Phoenix. If I get into Vegas, I will play Vegas and then I'll play Phoenix for sure.   
  
  Q. Are you still in the Race to Dubai?  
 JEEV M. SINGH: Yes, I am. I am. I'm conformed there. I'll be Top 60 something when I play the Race to Dubai, too. So I've got like 10 elements down the stretch right now.   
  
  Q. You've got some work to do. Again, congratulations on your round today. Good luck the rest of the year.   
 JEEV M. SINGH: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT