WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 21, 2009
Jeev Milkha Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Nice round, six birdies in a row.  
 JEEV M. SINGH: Yes. Rolled it pretty good today on the front-9, lot of lips outs but on the back-9, I think rolled it well again and holed a lot of putts and just got into the momentum and, you know, it kept going, you know, picking them up.  
  
  Q. This is like the best round you've had since you were injured.  
 JEEV M. SINGH: Yes. I think these are the first two rounds after the injury that I've shot under par. So I'm really glad, you know, and I'm happy to be playing again and, you know, I'm shooting in the red and that's what I'm striving for. I'm getting there.  
  
  Q. How exactly did you injure yourself?  
 JEEV M. SINGH: I was on the European Open on Sunday, the rough was bad and it was cold. I hit a shot, didn't feel it. Went back home and I thought my ribs were gone. But it wasn't.   
 The intercoastal muscles in the rib and I got a scan done, I was worried I had a stress fracture off the rib but the doctor said no, you'll be able to bear the pain but the pain was quite bad and I made the mistake of playing the U.S. Open, coming back too early but I'm happy everything is behind me now and look forward to good things --  
  
  Q. You got to feel good about -- I mean feel like things are turning around.  
 JEEV M. SINGH: Things are turning around. I'm getting my confidence back in the game. I still need to work on a few things, honestly, but, you know, I'm happy that things are turning around.  
  
  Q. What exactly is your status now? Are you not a special temporary member now?  
 JEEV M. SINGH: I'm a special temporary member and hopefully play in the Fall now, maybe play Turning Stone, Vegas and Firestone, if I get a sponsor's invite for those of us and if I make enough in that, to keep my card, well and good. If not, then come back again in the Top 50 and try to play.  
  
  Q. Would you play here exclusively if you got your card or would you --  
 JEEV M. SINGH: I would still be a global player. I would play in Europe and here, I'm sure.  
  
  Q. Did they ask you about the Presidents Cup?  
 JEEV M. SINGH: No.  
  
  Q. What do you think a good round today might do?  
 JEEV M. SINGH: I don't know. Lot of golf left yet, another two weeks and, you know, I'm just coming out of an injury, getting a little better but it's up to Greg, you know, what he feels and what he thinks is the right guys to be picked up.   
  My job is to try to play the best I c            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT