THE CELTIC MANOR WALES OPEN
June 5, 2009
Jeev Milkha Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. No dramatics today in terms of holes in one, but you're in a nice position going into the weekend.   
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yeah, it was a roller coaster ride today. I made eight birdies for 3-under. So a lot of good shots. A lot of bad ones, too. But I'm still happy. I'm still in there, so 5-under par, not too far off right now. So wait and see what happens the next two days.  
  
  Q. Must have been good to finish in that manner after the indifferent spell that happened before that?  
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Oh, yes, it was great to finish with a birdie on No. 10. I hit 4-iron to about 12 feet, holed that. I think that leaves a good taste; dinner is going to taste better. And let's see what happens for the next two days now.  
  
  Q. Hate to ask about double-bogeys, but what did happen?  
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Hit a bad drive. I thought it wasn't out-of-bounds. I hit it out-of-bounds. It was six inches in, so that was not a good break.   
 But I made so many birdies, so that's fine. It happens in a round, and there's some good breaks and some bad breaks and I holed some long ones today and so it all evens out.   
  
  Q. It's uncanny how it's just the nature of golf, that you're playing as well as that that that can happen, but coincidental with Robert Rock and Thomas Björn both suffering similar fates.   
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: I think this golf course, you've got to drive it really well, and if you don't, the rough is punishing. Sometimes you try to take on some lines, and you pull it, and you know, it's out-of-bounds; like on No. 8, it's a tough hole and I hit it out-of-bounds.   
 But it's fine and it's all part of the game and I think you've got to stay patient and moving on.  
  
  Q. You spoke a lot about your father in Kent last week, and he's here.   
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yes, he is here. He's walked with me the last two days and he's enjoying it. He's loving the weather. It's hot in India now and then he flies with me to the U.S. for the U.S. Open. He loves watching me play, so he's enjoying it.  
  
  Q. And having said what you said last week about him still demanding the attention, we did see that he was chatting to a lot of people out there.   
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yeah, he was. He likes talking, and he enjoys himself out there, because you know, this is the place where he was telling me when I was driving him down; in 1958, he won the Commonwealth gold in Cardiff. So he says, "I've come back after 50 years," so something special for him.   
  
  Q. So just to actually come to Wales is good, but probably he's seen the changes.   
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Oh, he said the stadium where he ran I think is not there anymore. I think it's -- maybe it is. We were asking some people and they said that it's like a museum kind of thing now, I don't know, maybe that's what they mentioned. So I'm not too sure what's happened, where he won his gold.  
  
  Q. Has he seen you win?   
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yes.   
  
  Q. Professionally?  
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yes, he has. He has seen me win professionally.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT