THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 7, 2009
Jeev Milkha Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Opening thoughts on the round?  
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Pretty happy with 68 today. I hit the ball really well, holed a few putts, also. But could have been much better. Disappointing finish with a bogey on the last, especially a par-5. I didn't really have a good birdie chance, but I went for it. I had 258 to the front, went for it with a 3-wood, pulled it a little bit, hit the tree. Had a tough third shot. Brought it out to the bunker and missed up-and-down from there.   
  
  Q. When you got here, was this a course you thought immediately would suit your game?  
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: It's an excellent golf course. You know, it just felt good to the eye, and I liked it, the way it's set up. I'm hitting the ball well, and I think it ultimately will come down to how you roll the ball. I made a few good putts today.  
  
  Q. Did the rain change the course very much this morning? There was a big rain last night.   
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: I think in the morning. Right now when we finished the course was in excellent condition. I think the greens were softer, too, so that helped.   
  
  Q. Any shots that stand out in your mind that you're especially pleased with?   
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: I hit a great shot into No. 6. Hit a 9-iron to about two feet for birdie, nearly holed it. So I'm pleased with that. And also on No. 2 I hit a great second shot right in the middle of the green but three-putted. But I was happy with that shot.   
  
  Q. I know it's a long way away, but being your first appearance here, what does this tournament mean to you and what would it mean to stay in contention and possibly get a victory here?  
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: I think this is, like everybody says, all the players, I think we treat it as the fifth major championship, and I think it's in excellent condition. I'm not going to get ahead of myself. I'm just going to go out there, follow my process and play every day and see what comes my way.  
  
  Q. Did this round come as a surprise at all, or have you been playing quite well coming into this?  
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: I've been hitting the ball really well, and I've been managing myself well with the putting. I think today I did, and I'm happy with it.  
  
  Q. Do you consider these conditions particularly humid or hot, or are you used to something else?  
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: I think this is humid.  
  
  Q. What do you compare it to?  
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Playing in Malaysia. I think when we play the Malaysian Open it's this humid, but Malaysian Open would be another five, six degrees hotter and more humid (laughter).   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT