WGC CA CHAMPIONSHIP
March 12, 2009
Jeev Milkha Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Comments about your round?
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Honestly, love this golf course. I think it suits my eye. Pretty happy with the way I played today. I drove the ball well. I hit a lot of greens and I think it all comes down to putting. I putted well, and I think that's why you shoot a score like that. 

 Q. How has your game been of late as far as form?
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Excellent. I've been hitting the ball great. I'm very happy with the way I'm striking the ball. I think it all comes down to putting, and I think I putted really well today, the first time this year, and hope to keep it going.

 Q. As far as people in America, one claim to fame is your travel; how many miles do you fly a year?
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: I think more than 100,000 a year. I go globe-trotting I think at least three to four times around the world because I play different tours, I play in Japan, Asia and Europe, and I play a few out here. I think it adds up. So I think more than 100,000 every year. 

 Q. Does anyone travel more than you? 
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: I think I play the maximum amount of tournaments. 

 Q. How do you set your schedule? Do you sit down in December and decide, and what determines where you go?
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: I sit down in December, and my main focus is normally if I'm back in the Top-50 in the world, I try to play more in the U.S. in the first half till the Masters. And after that, when The European Tour comes to the European continent starting from the Irish Open, I try to hit the European continent then. 
 Then after that, end of the year, head back to Asia, because that's where The European Tour moves. 

 Q. You normally fly just one airline, right?
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: I normally fly Star Alliance. That's got very good connectivity for me coming from India and that helps me quite a bit especially. 
 I have a place in London and I base myself there from May till November, and then I lock that apartment up and move on back to India. 

 Q. Ever thought about trying to play here full-time?
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yes, if I ever got my card, I would like to play here. I play 12 tournaments as I'm allowed to. If I got my card I would like to play my minimum, but I would like to still be a global player. 
 It's been a good learning experience, and the more you play on the courses you've played before, I think the more knowledge you have, and I think it helps you quite a bit, too. 
 I've always done that in my life. I've played in Asia; played in Europe; played in Japan. I still would like to do that, but honestly, I'm trying to cut down on the tournaments, that's why it's so high, close to about 76 a year. I just love playing; that's why I do it. 

 Q. Most people come over here and just play over here, and you've decided not to apparently; a lot of players will play a lot of tournaments here -- what's the reason you don't? 
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: I love playing here. Basically it's a good warm up to the Masters, and it's just different golf everywhere, because if you play in the U.S., different conditions, Europe is different conditions and I think it makes you a better player. That's why I want to be a global player. 

 Q. (Inaudible.). 
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yes, I feel I'm hitting the ball really well, and like I mentioned, it all comes down to putting. If I keep rolling it like that, I can shoot rounds like this again. 
 I've worked on my swing a lot the last few years and it's all coming down together. I've got a lot of trust and confidence now in it, so that helps. 

 Q. How much has changed in your game? 
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yes, a lot. I think every week is a different week. Especially the greens, the speed, the grass, the rough. Europe, obviously we fight nature and that's tough to do. The weather can be good when you start out and the weather can be bad on your back nine. 
 But I think it makes you a better player.

 Q. What kind of Olympian was your dad?
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: 400 meters, sprinter. 

 Q. Would you tell us about what it's like when you call home? 
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: I think he loves it. He's been a professional athlete himself, so he loves it. He loves the highs of me doing well, and he's happy that I play well. But I can't do it all the time. But whenever I do, he's really happy about that. We talk every day nearly. 

 Q. (Inaudible.). 
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: No, I wasn't born there -- oh okay, okay. I tried athletics. I tried track. But I preferred walking on the fairways much (chuckling). 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT