OMEGA MISSION HILLS WORLD CUP
November 28, 2008
Jyoti Randhawa
Jeev Milkha Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Talk us through your day today. More difficult format? 
 JYOTI RANDHAWA: Yeah, it was a tough day for me. I was really out of form today, I just couldn't feel anything and Jeev saved the day. He definitely made a lot of putts. A lot of chances. I made it difficult for him. What can I say? Just out of form, and it is good to be playing with Jeev. 

 Q. Jeev, talk about your efforts out there? 
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yeah, pretty happy. I think this format is pretty tough. We are not used to this format. We saved the day today, and we hung in there and both of us fought it out. I think we rubbed off each other and I think even par is a good score for us today. We'll take that. 

 Q. Only consolation is you didn't drop down the leaderboard. 
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yeah, we still stayed on with even par. The course was tough conditions because of the wind. But you know, tomorrow is another day. We are going to charge tomorrow. I think best-ball, I think we are going to give it a shot.

 Q. Going to be happy going back to fourball tomorrow? 
 JYOTI RANDHAWA: Yeah, I prefer that. Especially when you're a little edgy and you're not in great shape or form. You definitely need a support system. You can play a bad few holes and still make a few birdies and eagles, and that's what's good about the fourballs. 
 So I'm hoping that I can make a few birdies and get aggressive tomorrow and make a few putts. 

 Q. What's been holding you back? 
 JYOTI RANDHAWA: I'm just not very comfortable with my swing, the shaping sometimes. I have a lot of miss-hits, and especially on the greens, you are not quite sure because you are never close enough to make birdies. 

 Q. Has the stuff going on back home, has that distracted you in any way? 
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yeah, for sure, we feel bad what's happened out there. Obviously we have been watching the news quite a bit. 
 JYOTI RANDHAWA: Yeah, I think I did feel for the people that for no rhyme or reason got injured. It does affect a little bit. But what can you do? You're here to play and try to do the best you can. 
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: It's sad. Our hearts go out for the families who have lost loved ones, and hopefully the situation is sorted out and is under control, and that's all we can hope for and pray. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT