UBS HONG KONG OPEN
November 21, 2008
Jeev Milkha Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   SHENTON GOMEZ: Jeev, firstly, welcome to this press conference. Great job out there today, fantastic round, 7-under. You must be feeling very pleased with yourself.   
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yes, I'm pretty happy the way the round went today, because I think the putting came together. And yesterday I hit the ball exactly the same but couldn't hole too many putts. But really excited. I worked on it yesterday and got a little bit of feel on the greens. Went out there and holed some big putts, and I think that was the reason I shot 63 today.   
 SHENTON GOMEZ: Is that what's been working for you the last couple of weeks, putting; has that been the difference?   
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yes, putting has been pretty good and I think I'm pretty happy with that. Mainly I've been hitting the ball well, too, but it's been patchy last week also. When I started out, putting wasn't up to the mark. But as the week went, putting got better and went on to win.  
 SHENTON GOMEZ: It's been a very tight two weeks for you, back-to-back, have you had time to calm yourself down and think it through?   
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Not really. Honestly mentally very tired, but after this round, I think that you start thinking about other things and as the weekend comes, I think the mental tiredness is going to go, and I think I've got to start thinking about good things and hopefully have a good week again.   
  
  Q. You said with you were mentally tired on Wednesday; is that still the case after Singapore? Are you feeling a little bit different out there, or has that gone out of the window?  
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: That's gone out of the window, but yesterday I was. Like I mentioned, you have a good round like this and you put yourself in a good position, you start thinking about things which can happen. I guess I'm going to take it that way.   
  
  Q. Can you talk a little bit more about adjustments that you made from yesterday?  
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yesterday after I finished the round, I worked on my putting for about half an hour. Got a little bit of feel on the greens, and starting out, I holed a good putt on No. 11, just felt good after that and holed a lot of good putts today, especially for pars.   
 I think two putts were very crucial, especially the first hole, which is a 20-footer for par, and I think that momentum keeps going, and then you know, you try to shoot as low as possible, and that's what happened out there today.   
  
  Q. I watched you earlier on in the round and I saw you having some quiet work with the trees on the 14th hole. On that point, you seemed to be having a bit of trouble with your direction, but maybe I just had not seen enough. The next time I saw you, you got on the 7th and you ended up making your seventh birdie or something. Was that a mistaken impress on my part or had you put a good run of holes together?  
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: No, like I mentioned, I had two good pars, like especially on that hole where you saw me, on the 14th, I hit it in the trees and saved a good par there, and also No. 1.   
 When you save pars like that, that keeps the momentum going, and after that, you hole a few putts and then you're like 4- or 5-under and then you say, hey, let's try to -- you're rolling the ball well today, let's try to make as many as possible. Try to hit the ball on the green and try to hole it. That's what happened I think after that.   
  
  Q. Is it too early to start talking about back-to-back wins?   
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: I think it's too early. There's a lot of golf left out there and a lot of good players.   
 I just feel that I'm confident that I'm playing well, but you can't say that it's going to be back-to-back. But if I can have a good showing again, that would be good.   
  
  Q. Well, it's been ten years since an Asian player has won this tournament. What do you think about this course? Is it difficult for Asian players or some other reasons?   
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: No, not really. I think it's just how each player is playing. If somebody is really hot, he's going to win. You know, obviously there's more depth on The European Tour, but you know, if an Asian player gets hot and he handles himself well, he's got a good chance to win, too.   
 SHENTON GOMEZ: Jeev, thanks a lot and good luck tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT