QUINN INSURANCE BRITISH MASTERS
September 25, 2008
Jeev Milkha Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. An opening round of 69, you're right in the hunt. 
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yes, I am. The course is in excellent condition. It is playing tough. If you miss the fairway, you've got to just chip out. I holed some good putts on the front nine, that was my back nine, and kept it going. The front nine was my back nine so I kept it going there, so it was good.

 Q. Now you are 13th on the Order of Merit, what is the big expectation from you personally over the next couple of weeks? 
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: I want to finish in the Top 15, because that gets you into three majors for next year, and that's my goal, and also to break into the Top-50 by the end of the year.

 Q. How realistic is that for you?
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: I think it's possible. I'm playing well and if my health permits, I should be there.

 Q. This year in 2008, with the victory in Austria, it's been a good year; a couple of Top-10s, you got married; memorable?
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yes, it is good. 2006 was really good. I think 2008 is even better. 

 Q. What have you been doing since Japan?
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: After that, I went to the U.S., played the PGA. After that, I haven't played much, because of my ankle. My ankle has not been good since the French Open, so I took like four weeks off after the PGA. 

 Q. Is it hard for you to take weeks off through injury?
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: It's been good taking time off. In fact, I don't feel like playing anymore --

 Q. What did you do? You enjoy it more than anyone. 
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: I basically went to a holiday in Vancouver and enjoyed myself.

 Q. What's the problem?
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: I have a tendon problem in my right ankle and it hurts on the follow through but I had some MRIs done and it's better now. There's a lot of inflammation in there, and they have said that it's much better now. 

 Q. Only thing was rest, I presume?
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yes, only thing was rest, I had to and it was hurting quite a bit. I took eight painkillers to play the last round at the PGA because I had to play 35 holes. Then my body was telling me, enough is enough.

 Q. Great to get a good week in to cement the Top 15?
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yes, because you get into all the majors, and also I would like to move into the Top-50 in the World Rankings and that will help.

 Q. Where are you now?
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: I'm 60th. One good week, should be in there. 

 Q. Can you give the details of your birdies? 
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Birdie on 10. I hit a 6-iron, pitching wedge to two feet. 
 12, was 3-iron, holed a long putt. It was like a 40-footer. 
 Then 16 was a driver, pitching wedge to about a foot. 
 17 was a driver, chip out, 7-iron, to about 20 feet, holed that. 
 18th was a bogey. Hit it in the rough. Chipped out. No up-and-down on that. 
 1, I hit a driver, 9-iron to about six feet and holed that. 
 No. 2, I hit a bad drive in the bunker. Just pulled it in the green-side bunker and it was plugged and had no shot, made a good five, in fact. 
 Then No. 3 was driver, 5-wood, two on, 2-putt, from 25 feet. After that, just parred in all the way until the sixth, seventh. Basically 6-iron was not enough. I ride tried to hit it hard and I pulled it in the bunker over. Had no shot and chipped it in the green. 

 Q. Good start. 
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yes, I am happy the way I started out. I've been playing well, and if you have a good start like this, it gives you all the confidence going in for the next three days. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT