PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 8, 2008
Jeev Milkha Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Didn't want to take good shots out there today?   
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: It was tough out there today. I think the key was to stay patient, and I did. I let it go on the back nine; that was my front nine.   
 I think my front nine, that was my back nine, that was all right. I kept going, kept grinding it out. Not too bad. I'm three shots off the lead right now and we've got two more days. We'll see what happens.  
  
  Q. Have you played in any more difficult conditions than we've had today?  
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yes, pretty similar to Oakmont. I like playing tough courses, and that's what we play golf for. You've got stay patient and see what comes your way.   
  
  Q. How is the foot?  
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: The foot is not too good I think after my drive on 10. That was my -- on the first hole, that was my 10th hole, I tried to hit a big one and it kind of came back.   
 I'll ice it and take it from there.  
  
  Q. 17 and 18, close to impossible, the two of them there?  
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: 17 was a tough hole today. I thought I hit a good shot with a 5-iron way out there, but couldn't hold it on the green. If you go left, there's a big ring that runs in the middle of the green, so I'm just hoping to stop it about ten feet and try to make that putt.   
 18, they moved the tee up. 18 wasn't that tough today. You've got an iron in there after you've hit a drive down the hill, otherwise, yes, I feel it was the same tee like yesterday. I think everyone hit woods in there.  
  
  Q. What's the key to keeping confidence when you know you have to make up strokes and you're facing a course like this?  
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: What I try to do is I just try to hit as many greens as possible. I get it around the green and I try to hold those five, 10-footers, and days you do, days you don't, but you've got to keep going.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT