UBS HONG KONG OPEN
October 24, 2015
Jeev Milkha Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Thoughts on a lovely back nine that's pulled you right up there?  
JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Honestly it was a shaky start but got my bearings right after I made two birdies.  But what got me going was on the 10th hole, I got very lucky.  It jumped over the water and stayed up.  I chipped it to about two feet and birdied it.   
And after that, I think from there on, the momentum carried on and I made three in a row after that and I finished off really well.  Birdied three holes out of the last four, and I think it gave me a lot of confidence going into the last round.   
 Q.  So you kind of thought, they have given me some grace, I'd better make the most of it?  
JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Looking at these boys out there who are playing behind me, they are really playing well.  15-under is leading, and by the end of the day it could be about 16 or 17.  So I would say if you want to have a shot at it, you might as well do something on the back nine.  And it worked and came my way, so I'm looking forward to tomorrow.   
 Q.  Does it translate into being that bit more aggressive and going for things a bit more?  
JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yes, for sure.  I'm in a situation where I need to go for things.  Got to give it a go.   
 Q.  I don't know if you were aware, if you touched the top spot yesterday, first time leading since 2012 on The European Tour?  
JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yeah, that's right.  It has been awhile.  Like I mentioned earlier in my interview, it's a question of trust and it's all coming back and I'm believing in myself and putting myself in the situation where I need to perform.  The more I do it, the better I think it's going to get.   
 Q.  You've also mentioned injuries and lack of form as a result.  Does this mean you're fit and healthy again now?  
JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yes, for sure.  I'm in much better.  I'm in better shape and I'm working a lot on my mental side, also.  I think everything should fall in place and see what comes my way.   
 Q.  So often one leads to the other, doesn't it, in a downward spiral and then up again.  
JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Honestly, with the injuries, it's fine.  You can recover from that.  But the setback you have is on the mental side; the shots you hit, and you can't hit those shots and the shots sometimes you hit on the golf course, they give you bad pitches and bad memories.  I think that you have to delete those and move on.  The more you delete those and the more good shots you hit, I think good memories come back and good scores come back.   
 Q.  And a question of trust, as well, realising that you can do something still and trusting that physicality and mentality?  
JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yes, for sure.  I think most of the time, I think a golfer who needs to come back, he needs to trust in himself and believe in the swing he's got and make the most of it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT