THE CELTIC MANOR WALES OPEN
May 30, 2008
Jeev Milkha Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Good day's work? 
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Pretty satisfied. Played really solid today. Didn't hole as many putts as yesterday, but 68 is not too bad on this golf course. It was playing long again today. I think it rained quite hard last night. I'm in a good position and looking forward to the next two days.

 Q. Just the way you told us you had not played a practise round, I didn't realise you had a brand new set of clubs in, as well. Tell us about that. 
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: That's right. I tried the Callaway Fusions, and I tried them on the driving range and was going to dry them in the Pro-Am but the Pro-Am got cancelled and I thought, you know, the feeling is good, I might as well use it in the tournament. That's what I did and went will and I felt really good with the irons and so far so good.

 Q. This course is a composite course, nine new holes and nine old holes. How is it playing holes you know well and others you haven't seen before?
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Well, the memory comes back of the nine and the new ones are completely new to you. You go out there and you try to make the most out of it and if you want to stay in the present, you are playing the golf course, which is going to have the Ryder Cup in 2010, and when you watch The Ryder Cup in 2010, I'll be thinking about these holes on these golf courses.

 Q. Would you like to play Ryder Cup, or something similar? 
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yeah, I would like to play The Presidents Cup. I cannot play The Ryder Cup because I am not a European or an American. But if I can play The Presidents Cup, I would love to do that.

 Q. Did you find the good Indian meal you were looking for last night?
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yes, I did and I'm going to go for another one tonight. 

 Q. Tell us how special that shot was at last, the approach? 
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: It was really pleasing and I felt really good about it. As it came off the clubface I knew the ball is going to spin. That's what I was trying to do, and a player when he can execute a shot that he planned and does it, he feels good about it. It doesn't happen too often, and when it happens, you feel good and you know the ball is going to spin and I was telling the ball to spin and it did. So when the ball is listening to you, it's a good sign. 

 Q. And it really does put the cap on a good day. I know you weren't playing blind this time but still pretty satisfying? 
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: I think I played rock solid today. A few missed putts, but that's going to happen. You've got to take it in stride and I've got another two days, very much in it, obviously Scott's really played good golf, and let's see what happens the next two days.

 Q. Did I overhear correctly that you're playing with new clubs, as well? 
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yes, that is right. Without a practise round, just practised with them on the range. They are doing a good job so far. 

 Q. You're just making this up as you go along, aren't you. 
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: It's feeling good, and you know, I'm not too finicky about things but if I like something which feels good to me and suits my eye, I'll just put it in the bag.

 Q. How easy is it to settle into new clubs? Have there ever been occasions where you have been given a set and think you can't do anything with them?
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Oh, yeah, I went through at least four or five sets before I liked these, and I said, hey, these are the clubs I like. The last two weeks I've been trying different clubs and I went through four or five sets and said, guys, this is the one, and it was in the bag. 

 Q. What are they?
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Callaway Fusion clubs, I use my old PING zing sand wedges, a sand wedge and a lob-wedge.

 Q. And we noticed the bag, as well. Celtica, it's certainly fitting for Celtic Manor?
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yes, it is, it's one of the steel companies from Qatar. They are going to do a lot of business in India. As you know there's a lot of construction going on in India, and they are breaking ground in India and they took me on board. It's a steel company which manufactures steel and he has a new technology where he can build a house in less than six months, so that's pretty good. 

 Q. Sound like a good company to be involved with. 
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: That's right, and especially when you're breaking ground with India with so much construction happening, it's a good start. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT