IRISH OPEN
May 15, 2008
Jeev Milkha Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MICHAEL GIBBONS: Jeev, if you could maybe start with your ridiculous up and down on the ninth. Tell us about that.   
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Actually when I saw the ball, I just said that, hey, first thing is to go to the ref and make sure that I get in there with the right start and I don't break any rules. Because if you use your hands or something, get a stance going, basically you're breaking a rule and maybe I can get penalised. So that's why I called David Probyn there, and he told me this is the way you he can get in there and you can't touch anything. Basically just your body can go in there.   
 That's why I put my hand in my right pocket, and I took it out when I had to grip the club. And I just basically was just trying to chip it out from there and it came out perfect. Missed the hole and went to about 40 feet away; I was happy with that. I said okay, I know I can make a six, but when I rolled that putt, I know it looked pretty good on-line like it was going in, and it did.   
 And that's the story of the day. I made a lot of great up-and-downs today.  
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: You putted all day?   
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yes, I putted really well today. I hit some good shots in there. It was a mixture of good and bad and it all equalled out really well, and I think everything was on today, and I think golf is fortunate when that happens and that's why a good score like that comes out.  
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: Could be one of those weeks?   
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yeah, I've been playing well this year and I've been knocking on the door. Only thing I can do is just try and hopefully something good comes my way into the week.   
  
  Q. How was the lie on your third shot?  
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: I had a very good lie for my third shot. I was in-between clubs, in between a lob-wedge and a sand wedge and I hit my lob-wedge to about 75 yards, and the yardage is 76 yards. I said, you know, you've got to hit this hard, and I tried to hit this lob-wedge hard and I kind of thinned it and that's why it went over the green.   
  
  Q. Were you in the bushes?  
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Basically there was a pine tree and I was on the grass. There was nothing else there, and there were a lot of utility cable wires lying there, so I had to mark my ball to basically move the cables because I didn't want to move my golf ball. So then I called the referee, because basically, there's a pine tree which is bushy, and I basically could just get in there and my backswing was basically about a foot and a half. Just came out perfect.   
 I was more worried about just hitting the ball at that time than getting it out anywhere. I said just hit the ball, it can go anywhere after that, and it just came out perfect.   
  
  Q. A great approach to seven?  
 That was a good shot and I was fortunate with that, too. I had no intention to hit it to the flag. I was just going to the middle of the green. I said if it comes off well, the ridge is going to take it down. It just came out perfect. Hit a 3-wood; it was basically a 5-wood shot for me, but I just choked down a 3-wood and I just said cut this in there to the middle of the green. And when I hit it, it just came out and I said land softly and it did, just perfect way to finish up, because it just caught the ridge and it took it down to the hole.  
  
  Q. Yardage?   
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yardage was 243 to the hole.   
  
  Q. People are saying around ten under will win this week - you are more than halfway there.....  
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: I'm not thinking about that. What I normally do is I just try to follow my process and my routine, and after that, wait and see what comes my way. I don't put a number in my mind what I'm going to shoot. I just play shot by shot.   
  
  Q. The other highlights of the round?   
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: I started from 10. I birdied No. 15. I hit it to about six feet for birdie.   
 I had a good shot on 16. I was happy with that, to about ten feet, because the pin is in a tough place.   
 I didn't make any bogeys today, so that was good, on this golf course. It's a tough golf course, and if you miss the fairway, you're basically looking at a bogey.   
  
  Q. Have you been following the cricket at home?  
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: No, I haven't. I don't. No, I don't follow any sport being professional athlete myself.   
  
  Q. Looking at the money that's being thrown around --  
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: I hear about it all the time, and I'm more into watching movies than watching sports.  
  
  Q. An Indian that doesn't like cricket...  
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: No, I like cricket but I don't follow any sport.  
  
  Q. Are you alright after the accident in Malaysia?  
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yes, there's no problem, everything is fine. Obviously after that freak accident I had in Malaysia on the golf cart after my caddie banged it against a palm tree and I went flying hitting the windscreen and bouncing out, I was more worried about my wrist breaking than any problem in the head but everything is fine. Everything is good.  
  
  Q. Were you hurt?  
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: No, I was scared and I was under observation by one of the physios on Tour and she said that you have to be careful that you don't go to sleep in your sleep.   
  
  Q. You banged your head?   
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: I did, pretty bad.   
  
  Q. Where?   
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: On the windscreen. Basically I could see the head with this eye hitting the windscreen and the ball tree. I had never thought that carts could be that dangerous. (Laughing).  
  
  Q. Do you prefer an early start?  
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: It doesn't bother me, any time the first two days, because it's going to even out anyway, because one day you play in the morning and one day you play in the afternoon. Obviously when you start in the morning or the afternoon, and the weather is nice like this, obviously you feel good about that.   
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: Jeev, well played.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT