JOHNNIE WALKER CLASSIC
February 27, 2008
Jeev Milkha Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:  Jeev, thanks for joining us in the press centre this afternoon.  Welcome to the Johnnie Walker Classic.  Let's start off by getting your thoughts about being in India this week for one of Asia's most prestigious tournaments.   
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  Pretty excited about playing this week.  Johnnie Walker has always been one of the best events in Asia.  The golf course is playing well and it's in good condition.  I think the playing conditions are going to be tough with the wind.  The greens are firm.  There's a lot of slope on the greens, and there's a lot of depth in the field, so it's going to be an interesting week.   
 CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:  Tell us about your form coming into the week.   
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  I'm playing well and pretty excited about playing about playing here.  I've played here many times, and I think it all comes down to putting at the end of the day.  But there's a lot of depth, so we'll say how it goes.   
  
  Q.  Did you take time off after Indonesia?   
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  Yes, I did.  I did take a week off after Indonesia.  That was my fifth week in a row and I needed a break.  I went home and didn't do that much.  It's just a good week to start with and get some hard work in.   
  
  Q.  And it would be perfect to win your first tournament in India --   
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  No, I played the IMA.   
  
  Q.  To win it.   
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  Yes, it will be perfect, especially Johnnie Walker is such a big event.  It will be perfect.   
  
  Q.  Your putting on the last day in Indonesia, it was an area of concern, so are you satisfied with your putting now?   
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  Putting is always, you know -- players have to deal with it.  There's always up-and-downs.  The tournament all came down to one putt on the last hole.  In fact, if he missed and I made, it was my tournament; but he made and I missed, so that's part of a golfer's career.  You go through such things.  In fact, I putted well that week, and I hit a good putt, didn't go in.  That's fine.  Like I mentioned, you've got to putt well to win tournaments.   
 CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:  Were there any positives you picked out of Indonesia.   
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  The only positive I take out is that there is something better waiting for me.   
  
  Q.  2006, you started the season with a second place in Pakistan.  In 2008, you started with a second place in Jakarta; do you hope to continue the good form?   
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  I always take out positives, and I think you have to being a professional golfer.  If you get down on yourself, this game is hard enough to make your way down.  But if you tell yourself that you are in a good situation, even some things haven't worked for me, you have to take the positive out of it.   
  
  Q.  The last three tournaments, new champions, do you expect the same this week?   
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  You never know.  Like I said, there's a lot of depth in the field this week, and you cannot pinpoint who is going to take this week.  There are a lot of good players, and, you know, the guy who handles himself well mentally on the greens, good course management, good putting, I think that's going to be his week.   
  
  Q.  Talk about Indian golf.  You have three weeks of tournaments and the Indians have had eight Top-10s in these three weeks; anything on the depth of Indian golf now?   
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  I think there's a lot of depth in Indian golf, also.  There's a lot of talent.  I think players are maturing up really well.  They are more comfortable playing with bigger players.   
 The reason is, because there are more tournaments coming to India, and when they play with the bigger players, they learn.  They learn how to conduct themselves and they learn how to manage themselves.  They start believing that if we can do it, why not us.   
 So I think that's the reason that players are coming through, and I personally believe that there will be a lot more players coming through, especially the young guns out of India.   
  
  Q.  SSP Chowrasia winning the tournament three weeks ago made such a big impression on Indian sports; how would an Indian winning the Johnnie Walker Classic compare?   
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  Icing on the cake.  I think that would be great for Indian golf.  Indian golf has come a long way.  It's the fastest growing sport in our country today.  If an Indian wins, I think we'll have more tournaments in India and more sponsors will come through and also a lot of confidence will go down the ladder to other players who play on the Indian Tour; that if these guys can do it, why not us, and that's the attitude that most of the players have.   
  
  Q.  What's your plan and what's your schedule leading into the Masters?   
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  I am playing next week in Malaysia.  I'm playing the tournament in Korea, the Ballantines.  I'm taking two weeks off and then I'm going to head off to the U.S. for the Houston Open, the Masters and hoping that I play will for about five weeks in the U.S.   
 CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:  Jeev, thanks very much for your time, and all the best for the tournament.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT