UBS HONG KONG OPEN
October 22, 2015
Jeev Milkha Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Tell us about 5-under par, how good a start is that?  
JEEV MILKHA SINGH: I think I needed this kind of start this week and I'm going to give it my hundred percent like I do every week and hopefully this is my week.   
 Q.  European Tour-wise, we haven't seen you up there for a little while, so it is good, isn't it?  
JEEV MILKHA SINGH: It is great to be back on the leaderboard and gives me a lot of confidence.  I'm glad that I'm putting myself in the right position and hopefully keep going like this from here, and move onto better things.   
 Q.  We've seen how hard you work.  Is it down to that application and paying dividends at last?  
JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Injuries are much better and I'm working hard and my confidence is coming back.  I think that's the most important thing.  In this game, I think the trust and the confidence comes back, and you start putting the numbers on the board, and then you get comfortable and then you move on from there.  I'm in that process right now and I'm feeling good.   
 Q.  Are there particular things you haven't been able to trust?  
JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yes, my driver, especially, and it's become much better.  I've got a new driver now in the bag, and I'm hitting the ball much better.  I think it's much easier when you get the ball in play off the tee, and then move on from there.  So it's happening more often and I think that's why the numbers are coming up.   
 Q.  Does it help when you return to such a familiar circuit as this?  
JEEV MILKHA SINGH: For sure.  I think it's a fantastic golf course, a demanding golf course.  But a lot of imagination required and a lot of feel required.  It's not a bomber's course, but an old, traditional golf course where you have to shape the ball ask have a lot of feel in your hands.   
 Q.  Is there a good feel, as it's free for people to come in today.  
JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yes, I think the golf course is in excellent condition.  The wind is a little tough because it's swirling, but I think if you just stick to the main wind, I think you'll be fine.   
 Q.  Good support, as well, from people who might not have seen golf or the golf course before?  
JEEV MILKHA SINGH: For sure, there were a lot of people out here today, and I think it's great to see the crowds come out.  It's good for the game, and especially for the Asian players and also the top players who have come to play from Europe and the U.S.  I think it's a treat for these people.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT