MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 5, 2007
Jeev Milkha Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Can you talk about your round today?   

 JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  Pretty exciting with the way I played.  Played pretty well on the first round.  Pretty happy with my round.   
  
  Q.  Talk about the greens.   

 JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  Got to play smart golf.  You can lose your patience out there.  Some of the pins you know not to go for.  Some holes I had some tough putts.   

 Didn't expect that the golf course was so hilly.  That surprised me.   

 Front nine didn't look at the leaderboard.  On 11 I saw I was on the leaderboard.   
  
  Q.  Talking in reference to India.   

 JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  I think it's a big story in India because golf is the fastest growing sport over there.  This is shown live over there.  This is a dream come true being here.  I think in the future a lot more players from my country will come through.  A lot of good players over there.   

 If I go to a continent, I go and stay 2-3 weeks.  It's too tough on the body.  Going to play next week, going to play in the Byron Nelson.  Went to school in U.S. at Abilene Christian.  Byron Nelson was an alumni there.   

 As a child I used to get tapes of the Masters.  At Abilene Christian I had a good coach and teammates.   

 There are about 200 golf courses in India.  We'll see a lot more.   

 Doug Sanders helped to get me to Abilene Christian.  I played in the Doug Sanders Junior.  I asked him if he could help me get a scholarship and he did.   

 My dad played golf.  My dad is still better known in India.   

 If I win here, it will be big in India.  That's all I can say.   

 I thought coming here to the U.S. would be good for me.  I have three cards, Europe, Japan, and Asia.  Wherever golf is good, that continent is good.   

 Don't think anything compares to Augusta.  This is something special here.   

 A lot of people mistake me for Vijay's brother or Vijay's son all the time.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT