JOHNNIE WALKER CLASSIC
March 2, 2007
Jeev Milkha Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Considering the adventures that you had, you must be pleased with even par today?   
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  Yeah, except for two holes, otherwise I played rock solid. I had no brains for 17 and 18 (which he double bogeyed and triple bogeyed). I lost it somewhere but otherwise I was really solid. Hit bad shots on 17 and 18 and got penalised. I played really well on the front nine which was my back nine. Had a chance to get to one under for the round, missed a small putt on the ninth. But that's okay, I made some good putts as well. I'll take even par the way I was at after nine holes.   
  
  Q.  Five under for the tournament is quite a good position isn't it?   
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  I'm happy. I'm putting well and I'm focused. I'm hitting some shots that I need to but some shots with the driver, I'm not happy with. I've got to work on it on the driving range.   
  
  Q.  Nice to be in the mix after a while?   
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  It's good to be there. It's a good feeling always to be in the hunting ground.   
  
  Q.  What happened on the 17 and 18?   
  MILKHA SINGH:  Didn't hit good shots. Hit a three iron into water on the right and then a driver on 18 into the water on the right. I'm struggling with my driver but I'll take what comes my way. On this golf course, you don't need to hit that many drivers. You need to position yourself right and that's what I'll try to do.   
  
  Q. How hard is the course playing?   
  MILKHA SINGH:  It's a tough course. It's really hot and you have to stay focused. You have to hit the ball in the right position off the tee and on the green. But I always enjoy tough courses and I'm looking forward to the weekend. Keep playing the way I'm playing. I think I should be okay.   
 12, 8-iron to six feet.   
 2, 3-iron to 20 feet.   
 3, 7-iron to 15 feet.   
 6, wedge to 10 feet.   
 8, 9-iron to 10 feet.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT