JOHNNIE WALKER CLASSIC
March 1, 2007
Jeev Milkha Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  You must be pleased with that? 
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yeah, I putted good today, that's a good feeling. It's been a while. I've been waiting for my putting stroke to come back and I'm very happy with that. I didn't try to hole putts. I just tried to follow my routine on the putts and I was patient and I think that worked for me. I didn't hit the ball so good but I made some crucial putts when I needed to. 

 Q.  The birdie on first got you going? 
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yeah, it did. But honestly, the irons were not up to the mark and the driving was not up to the mark. I missed it at the right places and I got away with it today. I'm going to work on my swing after this and obviously on the putting too. 

 Q.  Was the ninth the highlight of the day? (Singh eagled the hole) 
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: I think yes. The putt on nine, when I stroked that, I was just thinking to get that on line. Got it on line and I said "oh man that looks good". 10 feet from the hole, "I just said get in" and it did go in. That was a long putt, probably 60 or 70 feet. 

 Q.  You seemed to have flown the flag for the Asian contingent? 
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: The way I look at it, I just went out there to play golf. If I could do that for the Asian contingent, that's good. But I just basically try to go out there and have a good day. Sometimes it does, some days it doesn't. 

 Q.  Do you think you'll hold this form for the rest of the week? 
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: I'll try. A lot of golf left. Three more days and I'm comfortable with the way I'm playing. Just a few things to tighten up. 

 Q.  This gets you into the mood, doesn't it? 
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yes it does. Obviously it does when you play well and have a good round. You basically have to go out and play golf and see what comes your way. I'm not going to put pressure or expectations on myself. 

 Q.  Nice to beat some top players in your group? 
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: It's golf, it's anybody's day and I have a lot of respect for them (Adam Scott and Colin Montgomerie). Playing good with the top players is good experience for me and it gives me a lot of confidence that I can play on the big stage. 

 Q.  What happened on 14 where you bogeyed? 
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: I think it was too much club (6 iron) and it was over the top too. I was in the hazard line and didn't ground the club. I got lucky there. It was in between six or seven iron and I wanted to hit a soft cut but it went straight. I played solid and made some good up and downs when I needed to. Just need to have more flow in the swing. 

 Q.  When you have days like this, when you don't swing it well but putt well, which do you prefer? 
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH: I'll take this. Instead of hitting it good and missing putts, I prefer this kind of golf instead as it takes away the frustration of missing putts. It's more exciting like this as it gets you going. You know that when you're on the greens, you can do something. I'll take this kind of day any day over hitting it good and not making any putts and not being happy as you'll be thinking I could have shot this score. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT