THE COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 26, 2007
Jeev Milkha Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Showing signs of improvement? 
 MILKHA SINGH:  I hit the ball much better today, drove the ball better which was the main thing. I hit a lot of solid shots than those misses yesterday. I had a lot of opportunities for birdies but I'll take 68 as it was quite windy on the back nine. 

 Q.  Good way to celebrate another sporting award? (Singh was named the recipient of the Padmashri Award from the Indian Government this morning) 
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  That award will always stay with me for the rest of my life. My father got that too in 1959 and I've got it in 2007. It's our republic day today and I'm very excited about this award from the Indian government. It's one of the highest awards for Indians by the government. It's a big honour for me. I've always grown up hearing my father talk about the award that he received and now I can tell him that I've got it too. 

 Q.  Understand that you've received a lot of phone calls last night? 
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  I got a lot of calls and a lot of messages. A lot of people were trying to wake me up on the phone last night but I put my phone on silent mode. When I woke up this morning, I had all the good news that came my way. I had something like 20 missed calls. 

 Q. Looking forward to the weekend now? 
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  I'm looking forward to it. I'm going to go out there and follow my process and routine. I need to work more on my mental side. I got result oriented and I need to sharpen that up. I am a little rusty after so much time off. Today, I felt like I was focussing on the result again a little bit. On the last hole, I had an easy shot in with a three iron. Hit a big drive and had a three iron and got result oriented. I didn't think about hitting a good shot. I started thinking about what I needed to do, I was thinking about making a birdie or an eagle. And I hit a poor shot. I was getting ahead of myself. I need to work on a few things. I've done it a few times the last two three weeks. I've got to block that out and work on my process and routine. It takes time to get back into things and I'm getting back into it and I'm working hard at it. I'm getting more comfortable and when you 're in a comfort zone of your swing, I think you're more relaxed on the golf course. 

 Q.  How's the wrist? 
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  The parties that I've had (at the year's end) was good as I didn't hit any golf balls! I got a lot of physio done. The wrist is much better. Previously, I couldn't do any push ups, now I can do at least 15 push ups. 

 Q.  What was the best shot today? 
 The ninth hole was a good hole. Hit a big drive and hit a good three wood to the front of the green and two putted. That was good as it's a 639 yards. 

 Q.  You've drove it past Stenson quite a few times today? 
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  I think I've been hitting too many drivers at the range. Henrik hits it a mile. Maybe I was getting the right bounces today. 

 Q.  Missed cut last week and now up there this week. What's your mental state? 
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  I'm comfortable with my swing. I'm happy with how things are going. I'm looking forward to the weekend. I'm going out to give it my best shot. I'm going to work on my putting. 

 Q.  What's the difference between the Jeev Singh of '06 and '07? 
 JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  I think confidence and trust. I trust myself more under pressure and I'm more comfortable with myself.  



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT