HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 9, 2006
Jeev Milkha Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  Hit a few funky shots today but I guess I was a little bit nervous playing with Tiger, but settled down pretty good after a few holes.  Enjoyed playing with him because I've always had a lot of respect for what he's done for the game.

But I'm pretty happy the way it's ended up today.  I shot 2 under and it's the first round and playing with the big man, I was excited, so I'm happy I shot a 70 today.
Q.  Take us through the 18th?
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  18 I hit a good drive but my ball was lying in a divot for my second shot.  I hit 5 wood out and I said, you'd better make sure you hit the ball first but I thinned my second shot and it was short of the green, so I knew it was going to hit the water.

So it went up and came back in the water and then I didn't hit a good sand wedge from there.  I hit it to about 30 feet and I holed a big putt.  I didn't expect that putt to go in.  I just was trying to get it close to the hole and it just went in.

I made some good putts today.  I made some long and good putts.  It was kind of patchy.  I missed a few ones, also, on the back nine.  But overall I'm happy with the way I ended up.
Q.  Was it a case of watching Tiger play    or concentrating on your own game?
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  Concentrating on my own game but also watching Tiger and how he manages himself on the golf course.
Q.  Did you learn anything today?
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  I think he's got an excellent short game.  His management is I think excellent.  He forgets bad shots real quick and gets on to the next shot.
Q.  Is it an extra buzz to finish with a better score than Tiger?
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  Not really any extra buzz.  It's just that I was pretty much excited about playing with him because I have a lot of respect for what he's done for the game of golf.

Tomorrow just go out and try to do the same thing and follow my routine and process and see what happens.
Q.  You seemed pretty much in control of your own game as well despite all the buzz around Tiger.
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  Yes, I'm focusing on just playing my own game and not being result oriented, but be more into the routine and process.
Q.  How was the crowd; there was a big buzz out there?
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  It was fun to see that.  You know, it's great to see so many people come out and watch.  It makes it exciting.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT