VOLVO MASTERS
October 29, 2006
Jeev Milkha Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
GORDON SIMPSON:  Well, Jeev, Padraig, may have won the little trophy, you've won a very large one here.  This must be the apex of your career so far to have won the Volvo Masters here at Valderrama in your first attempt, as well.
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  Yes, I think it's my biggest victory of my career so far.  I think this is going to stay with me for the rest of my life I think.  It's a special one, and it means a lot to me.

I think, also, I should play all of the Volvo tournaments because they are lucky for me.  I always play well and win.  (Laughter).
GORDON SIMPSON:  Yes, two out of two is pretty good I think.
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  That's right.
GORDON SIMPSON:  And of course, the finishing stretch here is so difficult, what was that shot you played on 17 to the middle of the green?
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  I hit a good drive, must be one of my best drives of the week.  I hit a 6 iron into 17.  I had like 205 yards to the hole and I hit it to like 12 feet left of the hole.  The whole day I didn't look at the leaderboard or scoreboard on any other hole except when I got on to the green on 18.  I thought I needed that putt to win, you know, but when I saw the leaderboard, I had a two shot cushion.  I thought, just lag it up and if it goes in, well, good, that's fine, and that's what happened for me.
Q.  What has been the strength of your week for you this week?
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  I think I've just been following my process in my routine and just staying in the present and not getting ahead of myself.  I think that's really helped me this week.
Q.  What kind of mind set, being on the final hole with Edfors and knowing that was there a particular pressure    what were you thinking?
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  There was pressure.  I was thinking about a lot of things.  I was basically trying to avoid the thoughts that were going to put pressure on me.  I was just trying to focus on what I have to do, and just follow my routine and process.  And if I don't win, that's fine, because I've got another week next week, and I just thought that, hey, you just keep trying.  And if it happens, well, then good.  And if it doesn't, then I've got another week and that's the attitude I've got to put less pressure on me.  I was not result oriented.  I was more into my routine and that helped me a bit.
Q.  This is the first time you played Valderrama.  How did you adapt so quickly so what is a really challenging force?
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  I think it's an excellent golf course that suits my game.  Also, I've watched it so many times on television especially when the Volvo Masters was on the air and especially when the Ryder Cup was on the air.  Coming in, I played just one practise round and I was very comfortable on the golf course.
Q.  What is the degree of influence that your caddie had on you for this week?
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  He's been on my bag for the last six years and we've gone through the up and downs of our career.  And this year for the Volvo China Open, it's really helped, I suppose, to understand the game better and especially when we are in a position where we can win, we don't get too aggressive and he understands my game.  So it kind of works out for both of us.
Q.  What is the best tip about golf you've ever had from your father?
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  My father always told me that you've got to stay in the present and you've got to breathe well.
Q.  You've got to breathe well?
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  Breathe.  Breathing's got to be good all the time whenever the pressure is on and stay calm.  That helps me quite a bit.  I try to keep my breathing constant and kind of calm when we're sitting normally, you know.  But obviously it kind of goes out of range when the pressure is on, but you try to get it back.
Q.  When the two bogeys happened, did that sort of jar you a little bit?
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  Yes, I think I became used to it because I bogeyed it the last three days I think, the same holes.  I said, oh, I've done it again.  I said, hey, never mind, just go out there and keep trying.  I've tried and I had good chances for birdies on a few holes coming in and I made some good putts, they didn't go in, but end of the day, it all ended up well.
Q.  What will this victory mean for golf in India?
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  I think it's going to be big news for Indian golf.  I think after this win, I think    I feel, that more sponsors are going to come out and other kids can see that you can make a career out of this sport and do well.

And parents are going to push their kids into golf also now, not only cricket; otherwise everybody is pushing them into becoming a cricketer and that's it.
Q.  And it's a great thing for The European Tour?
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  Yes, I think in the near future, sponsors are going to come up and we are going to have a co sanctioned event in India soon.
Q.  Do you think the timing is right, India is playing Australia in the cricket, and you have won over here, do you think there will be a balance in the news?
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  I think there will be more excitement about the cricket now than about me winning here, I'm sure about that.  (Laughter).
Q.  Do you keep in touch with the other Indian players on Tour, the ones on the PGA TOUR?
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  Yes, I do keep in touch with Daniel and Arjun, whenever I am in the U.S., I see them and play with them.
Q.  Are you good friends with Daniel Chopra?
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  Yes, I am.
Q.  Did you grow up with him?
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  That's right, I grew up playing golf with him.
Q.  Do you think your victory here reflects the growing strength and standard of play on the Asian Tour?
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  Yes, I think the Asians have a lot of talent and that they can play with the best in the world.  They just need to come out and play with the best in the world.
Q.  Just going back, you studied in the U.S., I'm just interested to know what actually pushed you to turn pro before you finished?  Why did you do that?
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  The reason I turned pro after two years of college in the U.S. was I won the NCAA's Division II Championship and that's one biggest collegiate championships to win, and I just went to my coach and I said I'm All American first team and I've won the NCAA Division II, I think I need to go pro and I'm ready I feel.  That's when I took the plunge.
Q.  What coach?
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  Abilene Christian University in Texas.
Q.  Are you going to try to go on to the PGA TOUR in America now?
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  Yes, would I like to, but I'm not going to push myself too much.  I'm going to obviously hopefully get some sponsors' invites out there and play well and work my way in through the sponsors invites.
Q.  Where are you going to celebrate tonight?
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  Just going to take a flight right now and I have to fly out to Japan tomorrow.  (Laughter) so I think when I get to Japan, I'm going to celebrate then.
GORDON SIMPSON:  Jeev, congratulations again, winner of the Volvo Masters, and well done, thank you.  Thank you very much, everybody.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT