VOLVO MASTERS
October 28, 2006
Jeev Milkha Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
GORDON SIMPSON:  Well played today.  You've already won the Volvo China Open, you're going for the Volvo Masters; must be something about these cars that you like.
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  Thanks.  I think I had a good day today.  I'm happy with that.  Especially shooting under par, I've always played under par for the first two days and played over par on the back nine.  But today I shot under par on the back nine so I'm pretty pleased with that.
GORDON SIMPSON:  It's a difficult back nine, as well, and you seemed to tackle it very well.  Why was that?
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  I think I made more birdies today.  I think I bogeyed the same holes again, but I made three birdies on the back nine so that helped me so that's why I shot 1 under on the back.
GORDON SIMPSON:  As we were saying on TV, it's a course that people seem to need to know to win.  This is your first time here, what's your initial appraisal?
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  I think I've obviously seen this golf course on the television so many times during the Ryder Cup and obviously during the Volvo Masters, and it is a great golf course.

I'm glad that I'm here and playing and I'm playing this good.  Hopefully I can keep going for the next day, too.
Q.  Do you regard yourself as a good front runner?
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  Not too bad.  I've gone into some tournaments where I've been leading and I've won.  But obviously I would prefer coming from the back.  But we'll see what happens tomorrow.
Q.  Is there pressure?
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  So obviously you've got something to chase coming from the back, but it's only the first time, you've got to go out there and see what happens.
Q.  You've got a pretty good last round record in the last seven or eight tournaments, haven't you; has that been true over your career or is that something that's happened recently?
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  I've had a good year this year.  My last rounds have been good, like you mentioned.  I've had a lot of Top 10s in Japan this year.  I've played in Japan and Europe mainly.  I've always played well in the last round.  I feel that it's the last chance I've got, so might as well give my best try, and it's worked well for me.
Q.  You won the Volvo China Open in April, do you feel you've moved on in performance since then?
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  Yes, I have.  I think that gave me a lot of confidence and trusting myself more.  Basically trusting myself more to follow my routine and process and get result oriented.  I'm less result oriented, and it's a very fine line, but I am less result oriented and I'm more focused on following my process and everything.
Q.  What's your level of fame in India; is it cricket level?
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  Cricketers are treated like gold in India.  We guys are not even close to cricketers honestly speaking.

I think golf is the No. 2 sport in our country I personally feel.  A lot of good golfers are coming up.  The media is covering golf really well on every tour.  Whichever Indian is playing, it's covered well in most of the newspapers each week.  And obviously also on the televisions.  But we're not as close as cricket yet.
Q.  Are you recognised when you go home?
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  Yes, I am recognised.
GORDON SIMPSON:  Is there a day coming soon where India is going to be like China, where the tours are going to go into the country?
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  I personally believe in another two to three year's time, we will have a co sanctioned event in Europe.  There is a lot of awareness of golf in our country, and it is going places I feel.  Our domestic tour is becoming bigger.  We've got a few tournaments on the Asian Tour, and hopefully in a couple of years, we should have one on The European Tour.
Q.  What's your record in Japan; you said you had been playing there?
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  My ranking in Japan is 17th right now.  I've played 13 events and I've had like nine Top 10's I think.
Q.  This is by far the best performance of an Asian player in the Volvo Masters, does that put any added pressure on you tomorrow, or are you just going out and playing for yourself?
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  I'm going to go out there and just play for myself.  If it happens, it's good.  If it doesn't, I've got another week.
Q.  Have you played in Spain before?
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  Yes, I've played    I used to play on The European Tour in 1998 to 2002.  I've played all over in Spain.  I've played in the Spanish Open; Mallorca.  I've played many times in Spain.
Q.  Your best performance in Japan?
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  I finished second two, three times I think.

But this year I finished third three times.
Q.  Do you have any religion?
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  We are part of the Hindu religion.
Q.  If you practise your religion 100%, will you use something towards it for tomorrow?
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:  Not really, just go out there and try my best and ask God to give me the strength to pull through.
GORDON SIMPSON:  Well played again today and good luck in the final round tomorrow.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT