SALTIRE ENERGY PAUL LAWRIE MATCH PLAY
July 30, 2015
Jeev Milkha Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How do you come from 4-down to win a match like that?  
JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Honestly, that was hard work out there today.  I was 4-down and I said, you know what, I'm going to lose this match, might as well go for everything.  Just freed up and holed a few putts and momentum came back.  Just kept going.   
A little tweak on No. 16 but got it back on 17.  But happy to be holing this putt on the last hole and winning the match.  Fortunate enough to be alive for the second round and I'm glad.  I think after, it's the first time I've been 4-down and I've won a match.   
 Q.  Were you just slow off the box or was Scott very quick and accurate to start?  
JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yes, he was.  He played excellent golf in the first nine holes, and I just kept holing putts, too.  Then after that, I holed a few in the back and momentum came back, and here we are.   
 Q.  Do you enjoy the drama of it or is your heart racing?  
JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Heart is racing big time.  It's like going for a playoff every single time.  Especially the 18th hole reminded me of the playoff I had in The Scottish Open.  I'm pretty glad and really glad that I've holed a putt on the last and I'm on to the second round.   
 Q.  Scottish Open, you played on a links course there.  Is it the same here at Murcar?  
JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yes, I think it's a fantastic golf course for our match-play event.  Full marks to the green keeper.  The greens are in excellent condition.  Thanks to Paul Lawrie for putting on such a great event for us guys, and I think it's great to have something different like a match-play where it's a knock-on system and juices are flowing.   
 Q.  Elaborate on that.  Nice to have something different on The European Tour, isn't it?  
JEEV MILKHA SINGH: Yes, I think it's fantastic for the Tour to have an event like this, especially a match-play event where top players are playing against each other and it's anybody's game that day.  You play well and you are having a good day, last few good holes, and you win the match.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT