DUBAI OPEN
December 16, 2014
Jeev Milkha Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about being here in the DUBAi Open. 
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   I think it's fantastic.   The first Asian Tour event in Dubai many years ago, it used to be held at Dubai Creek, and we love Dubai as a city.   I think it's a multicultural place where courses are fantastic.   And it has improved in years, especially golf has grown in this region.   And having the Asian Tour back out here, it's fantastic as the last event. 
I would like to thank Mohamed for understanding and pushing it and putting the money up and getting the sponsors to support this event in making the Asian Tour's last event happen. 
So I'm really glad it's happened.   It's on a fantastic golf course.   I haven't played the course yet, I'm going to play tomorrow in the Pro‑Am, that will be the first time, but I've heard a lot of positive things about the course. 

Q.   What is your overriding memory of the Asian Tour the last time it was in Dubai?
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   I was a young guy just coming out.   It was fantastic.   It was fun.   I just enjoyed playing at the Dubai Creek.   I remember the last holes were really tough, 17 and 18, especially the 18th.   That was a good finishing hole with a guy leading by two or three shots, anything could happen on the last hole.
And the atmosphere on the golf course was so good, and every player enjoyed it.   I think we're glad to be back here.   And the game has grown in this region since then for sure.

Q.   Why did it drop off the Tour?
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   I think because of the sponsors not putting up the money.   Because maybe they have joined The European Tour and then obviously the Dubai Desert Classic is a fantastic event.   I've been playing that for last 20 years. 
But the main reason I could see was that obviously sponsorship didn't come through.   But thanks to Mohamed and golf in DUBAi and the sponsors. 
I personally believe, first year always at an event there are teething problems; and it was just decided.   It happened.   Still feel that the way they have organised the event is fantastic.   Players' lounge is amazing.   Driving range is fantastic.   The golf course is fantastic.   The weather is great, so you can't ask for more. 
But obviously players couldn't come because of certain reasons, and I can understand from the players' point of view.   But I think next year onward, I'm sure things are going to be better. 

Q.   Does it spice up the old contest? 
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   Yes, for sure and I think the field is quite good.   A few top European players are here, Asian Tour players are here, and the MENA Tour players are here. 
So I think it's going to be fantastic, and especially with the wind picking up this week, I think it's going to be a good test of golf.   Because the strength of this golf course is the length and plus the greens.   The greens are quite slopey and if the pins are tucked away, I think it's‑‑ and the wind is growing.   I think it's going to be a good challenge. 

Q.   You took a few weeks off? 
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   I took three weeks off.   As you know, I've been struggling with my shoulder.   In the end I decided I got a another cortisone.   It's my second one in my rotator cuff. 
My doctor told me:   "You can't touch a club for a week."   I didn't.   And after that, he said, you still have to do rehab.   But there was still pain, so I don't know whether the shot has worked or not.   But the doctor says it hasn't, because you should have no pain. 
And then when I heard there's a lot of rough in Thailand, the doctor advised me, he said:   "If you go there, Jeev, it's just getting better, you're doing rehab, and if you hit one shot out of the rough and if you damage it again, it's going to set you back.   So I would advise you to pull out."
That's why I pulled out of the Thailand Golf Championship.   I love that golf course.   It's a challenging course and the atmosphere is fantastic.   So I pulled out of the Thailand Golf Championship and now I'm here and I'm going to enjoy this week.

Q.   Birthday yesterday, as well.   I'm sure you're looking forward to the week. 
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   Yes, I'm 21 now.   I'm legal for everything, so I'm excited.   That's the way I look at it.   I think after 40s, you don't count how old you are.   You just say you're 21.   That's the way I feel (laughing). 
So I'm 21, I'm legal to do whatever I can, so I'm excited.   The family is here with me, and I enjoyed yesterday.   Fortunate that the family is here with me.   We are going to have a great week this week.   Enjoy the atmosphere, enjoy the game and enjoy this week. 

Q.   In terms of the top two not coming here, is it understandable in the fact that they have had probably a busy schedule and already lifted the trophy? 
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   You know, as a player, I can understand for sure.   I don't know whether the sponsor can understand.   From a player's point of view, I can understand, because they have played so many weeks in a row.   Maybe somebody has an injury he doesn't want to talk about or they are tired. 
Plus, also the reason could be that obviously the second guy cannot catch the first guy even if he wins this week.   That could be a reason for it.   But like I said, it's the first year.   There are going to be teething problems. 
Starting next year, I'm sure things are going to be better.   I understand the Asian Tour is going to putt all the effort to make sure that the doors are opened out here.   We want to make this happen and keep this event going.   The Asian Tour, the boys, Kyi Hla and Mike are coming, so they are going to make sure things are put in place and this event keeps happening.

Q.   We have seen it happen on The European Tour where they have the Big Four and then in the U.S. you have the end‑of‑season Playoffs.   Does something like that need to happen in order to keep the crescendo coming? 
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   Yes, something like that could be good also.   Plus, I think in the future, for the last event always, the prize money goes up. 
So from a player's point of view‑‑ you get the money, but if he's got a chance to catch the first guy, he always will come and play.   He'll say, okay, if I win this event, I'll get him by $1,000 or something, so that kind of motivates the player that, you know, I'm going to go there this week and try to win the Order of Merit. 
I think the concept of the U.S. Tour and European Tour is fantastic and I think the Asian Tour is working along those lines to have a bonus pool so that the players try to finish as high as possible so that they get in the bonus pool for the Top‑10 players and they are rewarded for playing well.   So I think the Asian Tour guys are on the job on that. 

Q.   Is there anything when you're playing the Asian Tour, is there anything you prefer to playing on The European Tour?
JEEV MILKHA SINGH:   I think both tours are fantastic.   I love the Asian Tour.   I've started my career from the Asian Tour and as you know, both the tours, the way they are run, are fantastic.   It's good for the players and it's very competitive. 
Just that hopefully for Asia, I think Europe has done really well next year.   They have got a lot of events.   But for Asia next year, we are hoping they have more events so that players keep playing, at least have 20 or more events, so that the players who are playing in Asia can make a good livelihood, because they are leaving their family and trying to make ail living doing what they love doing.   So we are hoping they will have more events in Asia. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT