FEDCUP FIRST ROUND: BELGIUM v USA
April 21, 2007
Sabine Appelmans
Caroline Maes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Captain Appelmans and Caroline Maes.   
  
  Q.  Sabine, were you proud of your players' performance today against two great competitors in the Williams sisters?   
 CAPTAIN APPELMANS:  I was.  It's not easy for these girls to come out and compete against those top players.  I'm especially proud because they'd been working really hard all week.  We knew this was going to be really difficult.  But we did everything we could this week to be prepared for this.   
 Today they just went out there and they went for it.  They believed in it.  They played.  Yeah, I was proud.   
  
  Q.  Did you think maybe Kirsten had a chance there in the first set against Venus?   
 CAPTAIN APPELMANS:  Yeah, the first set was really close.  I knew she had to stay -- I knew once Venus would get into the match and would get ahead, it would be very difficult.   
 It was a close first set.  You could also see that Venus, you know, she just played a little bit better on the important points, and that's what usually the top players do.  When it's really important, they just can step it up a little bit more, and that's what Venus did today.   
  
  Q.  Caroline, what was it like for you to step on the court and actually play against Serena Williams?   
 CAROLINE MAES:  Well, it was going fast.  But it was real nice to play against her because I look up at her.  She just won the Australian Open and Miami.  I think she's a great competitor.  I think she's probably the best player in the world if she really wants to.   
 So I enjoyed every minute of my match.  Every point that I won, it's an amazing feeling.  So I really had fun today.   
  
  Q.  There's a lot of talk about her injury, since the groin injury last week.  What did you think about her movement?   
 CAROLINE MAES:  Well, I don't know what her injury was, but I think she felt good on the court today.  She ran really good.  She played a good match, I think.   
  
  Q.  Did you just start feeling more comfortable with the surroundings and playing her in the second set, were you less nervous?   
 CAROLINE MAES:  I wasn't really nervous.  It was really going fast in the first set.  In the second set, you get more used to it.  My serve was going better.  So that's why I hang in there, yeah.   
  
  Q.  Sabine, what is your strategy going into tomorrow?  What do you tell the team?   
 CAPTAIN APPELMANS:  Well, I'm going to tell them probably the same thing as today.  We're going to look at both matches today, see how they went, look at the tactics a little bit, then try to learn from that, go out there again and fight, fight for every point, see if we can get back into it.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT