CHICK-FIL-A PEACH BOWL: FLORIDA VS MICHIGAN
December 27, 2018
Chase Winovich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CHASE WINOVICH: It's changed.  Bowl games are an interesting point.  Donovan brought that up on Twitter, just how far away your bowl games are from your actual game.
But it's changed.  First, you know, like we were still coming back from the Ohio State loss and so when we first started like going into practice, it kind of eased us into it.  It was just kind of getting out of there and getting back in the motion, moving on from what happened.
And so now, it's more like, you know, you can feel the upswing and people are starting to get more in a game mindset.
Just been a weird week, because of Christmas.  I don't know, just felt weird.  But it's business.
Q. There are several -- you've mentioned already, some of these guys aren't playing.  The kids who are stepping in, what are your thoughts on -- I know they're not even kids anymore.  But some of the replacements.  What level are they playing at and what are you seeing out of them?
CHASE WINOVICH: They're playing at an extremely high level.  That's the thing is that they in a lot of ways, take way more reps than some of the starters do because -- I don't know.  I don't know how to describe it really.
Sometimes in practice, if the starters might take three reps, sometimes they'll take our reps and they'll do like young guy scrimmages and young guy opportunity Oklahomas.
So they've kind of been in this role.  So Coach Harbaugh and Coach Brown have done a good job of preparing them for this opportunity.
Q. Who are you most excited to see?
CHASE WINOVICH: For me, I'm a little biased because he's my roommate and one of my best friends on the team.  I'm excited to see Carlo Kemp.  I think, like, the man is honing in on details.  I heard him yesterday talking about -- talking to his mom about, like, specific weight that he wanted to play at.  It was like -- he's like I'm here, but I want to be like right here, which was like a couple pounds.  And I was just like, the fact that he's honing in on that much detail, just like two or three pounds is like he's -- that's how much it means to us and that's how much that's kind of like what we're trying to do is just get everything right so we're in a great position to strike.
So for me, like I said, I'm biased, but that's who I'm most excited to see.
Q. What do you want people to remember about your career at Michigan?
CHASE WINOVICH: That's not fair.  I don't know.  There's a lot of things I'd like people to remember about my time at Michigan.  I've always -- this is like anything.  It's like you shoot for it.  You want people to remember it.
But for me, I don't know, it's like when the back's against the wall, I'm always there next to my guys swinging.  And that's kind of my thing is, you know, it's like, I don't know, I've tried to always put Michigan before myself.
So, yeah, I want people to remember my love and dedication and sacrifice for Michigan.  Like a lot of people, they sacrifice a lot as well.
But for me personally, sorry, this is a tough question because it's important.  It's such a tough question because it's complicated and it has -- I don't know.
Q. Layers.
CHASE WINOVICH: Exactly, layers, like an onion.  I hate onions.
Q. Was that emotion that hit you, or were you just thinking?
CHASE WINOVICH: It was emotional, but it's important to me.  It's important, my legacy, and how people view me.  Like I said, I love Michigan and the school.  Literally, it's my first thing I loved outside of my family.  I always say that.
It's just important that I'm viewed in a positive light and I'm viewed as someone that busted his butt and gave everything he had for the school and on and off the field.  I think that, alone, by itself, would be a great legacy.  In conclusion would be that he made Michigan better and put Michigan in a better place than when he started.  And I think I can check those boxes.
Q. You must have weird emotions going into this game, then.
CHASE WINOVICH: Yeah.  You kind of have weird emotions going into every game at this point.  Just like the last couple games, because one was the last home game, one was my last time against Ohio State.
So yeah.  You always have weird emotions, but it's part of the game at this point in the year, in my career.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT