U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 29, 2000
Hubert Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
HUBERT GREEN:  I told my wife last night that I was hitting the golf ball pretty solid.  If I putted half decently, I might have a good round today.  But the U.S. Open is not exactly your average fistfight.  It is a pretty tough game out there, and the golf course is very severe.  We are very lucky, though that it stayed overcast.  The greens didn't get as fast as they could get and will get.  They are a little softer than they normally are, but I am sure you guys will take care of that before the week's out. 
 

Q.  What was the difference in hitting the greens today?
 
HUBERT GREEN:  I mean, I have been hitting the golf ball this year a lot better than I have in the past.  Much more solid from tee-to-green.  Just continue doing it; hitting the ball on the club face.  That is what the face is made for, to hit the ball straight.  Been a long time since I have done that. 
 

Q.  Could you go through birdies and bogeys?
 
HUBERT GREEN:  I birdied the first hole, sand wedge, about 8 or 10 feet; made the putt for birdie.  I birdied No. 4, 6-iron about 10 feet behind the hole; made the putt for birdie.  I birdied No. 6, sand wedge there about 20 feet, 25 feet; made the putt for birdie.  Birdied No. 11, the par 3.  Hit 18 plus Orlimar sort of a -- I don't know what it is, I don't carry 2-iron anymore because I am an old man, so it is the next club in my bag.  About three feet, made the putt for birdie.  I birdied No. 15, hit sand wedge about six feet, seven feet; made the putt for birdie.  16, 9-iron about five feet; made the putt for birdie. 
 

Q.  Did you have to get up-and-down on any of the holes?
 
HUBERT GREEN:  Got up-and-down on No. 13.  Hit a bad drive, but stayed in the fairway.  Terrible 3-iron, short of the green, pitched up about three or four inches from the hole. 
 

Q.  You said you made the 25-footer on 6.  At that point did you say to yourself:  Hey, I may have something going here?
 
HUBERT GREEN:  No, I am too old for that.  Used to playing one shot at a time, see what happens.  We will count them all when we get through playing them.  If you start making your press interview on the 6th green, you are going to be in deep trouble.  I know.  I have tried it before. 
 

Q.  Can you already see the course drying out?  Is it going to be a big advantage going off early today?
 
HUBERT GREEN:  Always is.  Course will dry out as they want it to.  I am sure they can get these greens as firm as they want to get them.  It is not their first rodeo out there.  They will find a way to do it if they want to. 
 

Q.  The Senior Open has not been one of your favorite tournaments since you have come on the Tour.  You missed the cut the last two years in a row. Did you do something over the winter that turned your game around?  What has got you going this year?
 
HUBERT GREEN:  My wife claims it is her because I got married in November.  I am hitting -- worked on few things -- hitting the ball more solid.  The reason I have not played well in the Open, this golf course is a course like in Chicago where I had a half decent tournament there.  It's a fine golf course.  I love the atmosphere.  I love this kind of course.  The other courses weren't quite as favorable. 
 

Q.  By a quick count, that is 28 putts today.  Putting has been pretty solid all year.  I know you are up one, two all year long.  Is that a difference from the past couple of Senior Opens --
 
HUBERT GREEN:  I hit the ball good today.  Me hitting 16 greens in regulation, that is a new world record for Hubert Green almost.  My greens in regulation stats on the record Tour is not as near as good as this was.  Hitting the ball -- hitting that many birdie putts is much more fun. 
 

Q.  You did sort of a summer internship at Merion many years ago.  Does this golf course remind you --
 
HUBERT GREEN:  Don't bring that up.  Listen, I tell folks I never had a job in my life.  They don't believe I worked at one time.  Been so long I work for Merion, I don't remember.  It is a  senior moment to go back that far. 
 

Q.  You said this course sets up well for you.  How does it do that?
 
HUBERT GREEN:  Sets up well, period.  It is a very fair golf course.  The fairways are sufficiently wide; aren't too narrow, rough is severe.  It's a very, very great setup golf course.  It is nice to see that.  It is not tricked up.  It is not too funky here and there. Basic good golf course.  It's set up the right way.  You got a great golf course and great setup by the U.S. so it makes it a fine tournament. 
 

Q.  We can go back a little farther than 1970 at Merion.  Do you have any remembrances of the NCAA tournament Shawnee in 1967?
 
HUBERT GREEN:  Not much except there was a creek on the 17th hole.  Got my ball into that a couple of times; that is about it. 
 

Q.  Now this isn't the first roll you got on this year, if I was reading correctly, 62 final round at the Audi (inaudible) -- how does that one compare to this one?
 
HUBERT GREEN:  It is a different kind of a golf course. This golf course is -- this is the Open, it is a little more difficult to -- I had butterflies .  I was talking to my caddie and said that I hadn't been this nervous in a long time on the first fairway.  It's a great feeling to get those butterflies jumping around in your stomach again. 
 

Q.  Were the nerves because you felt that you could play or what were the nerves from?
 
HUBERT GREEN:  I am not a doctor.  I just know what I felt. 
 
HUBERT GREEN:  Don't worry about it 'til the next hole; then keep on playing. 
 

Q.  You said you got married in November.  Congratulations. How does that affect your game?
 
HUBERT GREEN:  I don't know.  You have to ask her.  I am doing it the same way.  The scores have been better. 
 

Q.  Her name?
 
HUBERT GREEN:  Michelle.  Also I am on the policy board. That could have an effect too. 
 

Q.  How long has it been since you had butterflies like that on the course?
 
HUBERT GREEN:  You get them all the time, but only on the first hole of the golf tournament - no, it is too early yet.  You got to get in competition first, felt good. 
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT