ENERGIZER SENIOR TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 6, 1997
Hubert Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








HUBERT GREEN:  Nice to be here.

HUBERT GREEN:  Well, I didn't start the year out trying to finish in the top 31.  That wasn't my main thought process.  I thought I could play better golf than I did actually.  And, didn't really realize what the top 31 meant until the last few weeks; saw that I was in a little bit of trouble and to come to the big dance, you have to qualify. And, I wasn't qualifying, so I had to play a little better.  I played very poorly at Sacramento which was disappointing because I thought -- because it was a golf course I would play pretty good.  And, last week I had to finish, as it was 6 by myself and I finished 6 by myself.  Just enough to get to the big dance.

HUBERT GREEN:  I played as good a golf as I can play. This golf course is way too hard for me.  (laughter)  It has got par 4s that I can hardly reach.  And that is with the weather being nice and dry and not being windy.  I am as surprised as anybody to be in here right now. I should be in the other room with players that are having a cold drink with a little higher alcohol content than this one here.


Q.  Were you striking the ball pretty well, putting --

HUBERT GREEN:  I didn't make any crucial mistakes.  My first three holes were just, you know, hitting 4-wood to 1.  I hit 4-wood to 2.  Hit 3-iron to 3.  These aren't holes that you are trying to make birdie on.  You are trying not to hurt yourself too bad.  Had good lies on the fairway; got the ball around the green or on the green and I 2-putted from 30, 40 feet.  Wasn't real exciting, but I got around the real hard holes, very lucky today.


Q.  Backside you had 4 --

HUBERT GREEN:  Birdied the last four holes.


Q.  Not being one of the longer hitters how did you come  -- how did you birdies those?

HUBERT GREEN:  They are not as long.  15 is a par 5; I had a wedge to that green.  16 is a short hole you lay up on it.  I had, off the tee, 9-iron.  Luckily I made a putt from the fringe there.  Next hole was a 5-iron par 3.  Made birdie there.  Last hole 8-iron, about 3 feet from the hole.


Q.  Kind of looking forward to those holes coming through the round?

HUBERT GREEN:  I just wanted to get rid of the holes I was playing as it was.  Just go to the next one, it is like -- it is very difficult out there.

HUBERT GREEN:  8, I made about a 6-footer.  Maybe eight feet, something like that.  I don't sell real estate, so don't take me up on the exact footage.  15, made about a 5- or 6-footer.  16, I made probably a 20-footer.  Had a big blob of mud on my ball, horrible, and I just stayed on line there and went right in the hole.  I was very fortunate there.  17, I made about a 12-footer.  18, was about a 3-footer.


Q.  You would have kept on playing --

HUBERT GREEN:  I would have gone for a few more holes.  Not the lengthy ones.  I didn't want to go play 1, 2 and 3 again.


Q.  Do you have enough confidence right now to feel like you can continue to do this?

HUBERT GREEN:  We will see.  I will show up tomorrow. I won't miss my tee time, I will promise you that.  But, you know, it is not a golf course that suits my golf game, that fits in my plan.  But, you know, if I can make five birdies out there, I will be okay.


Q.  What kinds of expectations did you have for yourself for this year or did you even have any?

HUBERT GREEN:  Well, I wanted to be a contender in the TOUR and I have not been a contender, so, I have been very disappointed.  As they say, I have been a "Pretender" not a "Contender."


Q.  What held you back what kept you from being where you want to be?

HUBERT GREEN:  My golf swing when I first came on TOUR was so bad, it is not beautiful, never has been beautiful.  But I could not play dead when I first came out here.  And, I am starting to strike the ball a little better.  I can at least attempt to go off the green with a long iron right now.  First part of the year, if a 5-iron was lowered in my hand, put a hard hat, watch me play, because it is going to be brutal.


Q.  You always seem very relaxed out there anyway, but you know these guys really well that you were paired with.....

HUBERT GREEN:  I played college golf with Bobby Duval  so I know him pretty well.


Q.  You guys had a good time today?

HUBERT GREEN:  I am not working.  I am 50 years old. Haven't had a job yet, excuse me, you can't run around there start slashing your wrist too bad.  Jimmy has always been real nice.  Been with Tommy Armour together this year.  He is a real knowledgeable guy and good guy to play with.  Most of the guys are.  If you let your pairing bother you, you are not a professional.


Q.  When you talked about not really thinking about making the top 31 earlier in the year, you missed the tournament for a speaking engagement.  Were you concerned at all?  I mean, how close were you thinking you were going to be home next week?

HUBERT GREEN:  If I didn't make it, I didn't make it; wasn't the end of the world.  But, one tournament is not going to keep me from making this tournament.  I mean, I played so poorly.  I missed the cut in the PGA, that is just horrible.  I missed -- I played poorly in several big money tournaments and played very poorly at Sacramento.  If I didn't play good in those tournaments, if I had played good there, I would have been here anyway.  If I played good at Sacramento, I am in. You know, so there is -- you don't sit there and say, well, that is the reason I didn't make it, that one week, because I had all year to make it.


Q.  What are you doing to hit the ball more solidly?

HUBERT GREEN:  I just work -- I have been working real hard.  I have not seen any guru that has been instrumental.  A lot of folks have tried to help me but maybe I am beyond help. I have got a swing that is not exactly classic in the Hogan's frame of mind.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT