NCAA WOMEN'S COLLEGE WORLD SERIES
June 5, 2016
Lonni Alameda
Jessica Burroughs
Morgan Klaevemann
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Florida State - 1, Michigan - 0
THE MODERATOR: Good afternoon.  At this time we have Florida State on the dais.  Coach, we'll do general comments about the game.
LONNI ALAMEDA: Yeah, first of all, just want to congratulate Michigan on an amazing season.  We've had some amazing games against Michigan, and they're just such a classy program, and there's been a lot of seniors that ended their college career today on that team, so just an amazing job to them.
As for our program right now, the fight is just so, so awesome to see, the comfort level after our first game coming out and booting the ball around a little bit.  The comfort level of going pitch to pitch and trusting the process of what we talked about all season.  Jessica had a great day today, and a lot of that comes from having a great catcher to stop a lot of those dropped balls and changeups for her to be able to throw that, so the confidence of them and trusting it to pitch it was amazing to see in big situations there.
Really proud of them and really excited about our next opportunity this afternoon.
Q. Jessica, usually the bats come alive at some point and give you a little bit of room to work with.  Is there more pressure on you as the pitcher when nothing is working offensively, it's just a 1-0 game?
JESSICA BURROUGHS: There's a little bit of pressure, but the whole big picture is it's my job out there to keep spinning it and get the defense in there to work on the offense.  Sometimes it happens, sometimes it doesn't.  Sometimes the offense is on fire, sometimes it's not.  But that's what I signed up for, and I want to be in that situation, and I think I was the most relaxed today than I have been in a while.  The defense was playing amazing today, and then Syd back there was huge, just blocking that changeup and big catches out there, Cali Harrod big catch, and the defense was on today, and sometimes it's either-or in a one-run ballgame and that's what the World Series is all about.
Q. Morgan, take us through that wild pitch in the third when you were able to cross home.  What did you see and what was the reaction like after?
MORGAN KLAEVEMANN: It was kind of a runner's dream to be able to score on something like that.  But just the people in front of me and the people behind me having those at-bats to be able to move me around to three, and then it's just the little things you have to pay the most attention to, so being able to pass on a little bobble or overthrow, just you're always looking for those things and you wish for them to happen and beg for them to happen, so when it does you want to take advantage of it all the way and execute when those things do happen.
So I'm just happy to be able to bring my speed to the team and be able to do that for my team, and it's just a great feeling overall.
Q. Morgan, both Alex and Jessica get a lot of credit for being the flashy home run hitters, but talk about the importance of getting on base, using your speed and being able to manufacture a run?
MORGAN KLAEVEMANN: I'm so proud of my position.  I'm obviously not a home run hitter and I don't plan to be.  But having them like just get on base and having them hit those home runs, it's overall a team thing.  It's a team job.  So just being able to get on base and maybe steal a bag or two to get into scoring position and having the big hitters behind me to hit me around in those situations.  It makes my job so much easier.  I'll let them do the long ball and I'll just stick to my small bunts and stealing bags because I'm so proud of it, and I'm able to bring that to team.
Q. Coach, talk about Auburn who you've obviously played twice.  Do you know what you'll do pitching-wise?
LONNI ALAMEDA: Nope.  I think we have got a good one-two punch, and actually Jess was pretty good with pitch counts with where she was.  We are familiar with Auburn.  We outplayed Auburn before.  They are a great offensive team, and we're probably going to see a lot of looks in the circle as they bring a lot of pitchers to us.  We're going to have to go game plan over lunch and changing uniforms and do something -- get ready for them, but I know it's going to be a dogfight.  It's going to be a battle, and they're on a run right now.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT