RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 27, 2009
Chris Baryla
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   CHRIS BARYLA: I hit it right where I was aiming for sure, yeah.   
  
  Q. Is this kind of a cap-off for you coming back from injuries?  
 CHRIS BARYLA: You know what, I've been working hard since I got healthy, and it's starting to come together, which it's nice to see the payoff for the hard work, so hopefully that'll continue.  
  
  Q. You played your way into the Flint next week. That's the first time you've played your way onto a Tour. Can you talk a little bit about the mentality of knowing you have to go that way?  
 CHRIS BARYLA: Yeah. It's certainly better that than Q-School. Just I think I'm comfortable knowing that I have to get something done, knowing that there's a set goal, some attainable thing to do. Maybe I need to look at trying to win a tournament that way, maybe Nationwide or something like that, obviously. But I am more comfortable when I know I can be aggressive.  
  
  Q. Just wanted you to sum up the week, crazy week that it was and finally getting it done.   
 CHRIS BARYLA: Yeah. We played 42 holes in four days and then 30 holes today. I was very happy that we were able to get 72 in. Kudos to the maintenance crew and the tournament director and whatever for making that happen, because obviously gave me the opportunity. I needed to shoot a couple low rounds today, so I couldn't have done that with only one more round.   
  
  Q. Little bit of extra pride, too, only one of four Canadians in the finish here?  
 CHRIS BARYLA: Oh, absolutely. Stephen and Mike for sure are high goal to attain, but you know, trying to be a friendly rival, especially Graham. I know Graham really well. And he's a great player. He's going to play really well in the future, so hopefully a little bit of inspiration for young Canadian golfers.  
  
  Q. Was there any doubt in you actually coming to this event rather than playing in your hometown last week?  
 CHRIS BARYLA: Not really. I've done it before when I haven't had full status on Nationwide and I had to keep playing because I didn't know what I was going to get in next. But now that I'm exempt on that Tour, I took a week off and came up here and I'm going to play Flint next week. I'm going to take the Nationwide Tour off again.  
  
  Q. This has been your biggest track as a pro.   
 CHRIS BARYLA: It's certainly been my biggest track as a pro, yes.   
  
  Q. Do you know what it is yet?  
 CHRIS BARYLA: No.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 CHRIS BARYLA: 120, maybe. I don't know. Any plans for it? I don't know. No, not yet. "Change flight" fee. $57.83.   
  
  Q. How much did the win on the second Nationwide Tour?  
 CHRIS BARYLA: I don't remember. I believe probably around 40. It was a three-way tie.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible).   
 CHRIS BARYLA: Just frustrating, last year being off for, what, 11 months or whatever total. Getting back and working hard to get the body back in shape has been the toughest part, but it feels great, so good now.   
  
  Q. What was the nature of the injury?  
 CHRIS BARYLA: Back injury, just pinched nerve, essentially. It was shutting down the muscles to my left leg and blah, blah, blah.   
  
  Q. Did you have therapy or?  
 CHRIS BARYLA: Therapy, some epidurals, nerve root injection, just witch magic, whatever helped. Acupuncture.   
  
  Q. Is it gone?  
 CHRIS BARYLA: I am feeling fantastic, so yeah.   
  
  Q. When did you first start having problems with that?  
 CHRIS BARYLA: I started struggling last spring, probably March. Just noticed numbness and weakness in my left leg and it kind of catapulted from that.   
  
  Q. Spring of '08?  
 CHRIS BARYLA: That would have been spring of '08. Yes.  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible).   
 CHRIS BARYLA: Yeah. Long story short, the muscles weren't working well, so I blew my back out when I was trying to play golf, and basically I tweaked my back because I couldn't get support from the left side of my body.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible).   
 CHRIS BARYLA: No. I hope it wasn't anyway. I'm still young.   
  
  Q. Despite the weather, the stopping and starting all week, can you just talk about -- we're on a Monday, the crowd and support you've had all week.   
 CHRIS BARYLA: Oh, yeah. Right from the morning today when people started to show up and I ended up hitting the shot off the cart path on 16, there was a bunch of fans out there. I mentioned to them about thanks for showing up on a Monday, probably had to hit some sort of shot to at least make their day worthwhile.   
 But Canadian fans are great. They love their sports and they love this event, so despite the fact it had to go over into Monday, yeah, they supported it fantastically.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible).   
 CHRIS BARYLA: Fantastic. A lot of respect for Stephen, a lot of respect for the Canadian Open and just being Canadian is huge. It was a huge achievement. Absolutely.   
  
  Q. I was just wondering, how are the fires, how are they affecting you on the Tour?  
 CHRIS BARYLA: My family, they're not affecting. We're separated by a lake, but it's fine.   
 A lot of evacuations. Our multi-plex arena is being used to house displaced families and whatnot from the fires, so I haven't had an update in I guess since yesterday morning, but it's not a good situation.  
  
  Q. So your parents were keeping you updated?   
 CHRIS BARYLA: Yeah. Exactly. Parents, friends, seen pictures and whatnot.   
  
  Q. What's the mood there?  
 CHRIS BARYLA: They're looking to get it taken care of. They've had this sort of thing happen before, unfortunately. So I think they know what to expect and what to do about it. People get through.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible).   
 CHRIS BARYLA: Hey, if I can cheer anybody up, why not?  
  
  Q. If you were going out to be aggressive today, did you sort of leave whatever you have out there? I watched a couple holes. Looked like you had things sort of going.   
 CHRIS BARYLA: Yeah. We talked about, Brian Sullivan, my caddie --  
  
  Q. Who works just for this event.   
 CHRIS BARYLA: Who I just picked up this week. Man, he's good. Experienced and just a great guy.   
  
  Q. What's his name?  
 CHRIS BARYLA: Brian Sullivan. Yeah. We were walking down the first hole today and we were talking about shooting 66, honestly.   
  
  Q. Yeah. He said he figured it was in you.   
 CHRIS BARYLA: Absolutely. I made a 60-footer back on 5. Yeah, I mean so, and I really hadn't made much all week.   
  
  Q. You played Texas earlier in the year.   
 CHRIS BARYLA: Yeah.   
  
  Q. Is there a difference in you and the game? Coming back to play?  
 CHRIS BARYLA: No. The game's been good. Since then the game was good. I did Monday qualifying into that. And game's kind of been good since.   
 Obviously this event for me is much -- you know, as a big event. I mean I live in Texas now, so the Texas Open obviously is a big event. The Canadian Open behind the four majors will always be a big event for me.   
  
  Q. Do you come away from this thinking, obviously a top 10 on the PGA TOUR event. Coming into this week if I told you Top 10 --  
 CHRIS BARYLA: I would be very happy. It's the difference between thinking that I have the ability and the validation. It's nice to have some validation for sure.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT