CANADIAN OPEN
July 28, 2007
Chris Baryla
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Chris, at what point did they apprise you that there was an incorrect drop? 
 CHRIS BARYLA:  As soon as I got off the course when I got into the rules tent. 

 Q.  You had no heads-up until then? 
 CHRIS BARYLA:  No.  I believe what is policy at least in most cases, they won't interrupt you during the round.  If there's nothing they can do about it to prevent it, they will wait until after the round to discuss it with you. 

 Q.  When you were playing the hole did you consider maybe consulting a rules official or was it pretty clear to you at the time? 
 CHRIS BARYLA:  You know what, I think it just reiterates, no matter how simple the ruling, you need to call a rules official, because, I mean, there's a lot of idiosyncracies in golf and in the rules.  What seemed like a very obvious situation between myself and my playing competitor; obviously you need to have the professionals in there to show you what to do.  Probably should have done that, yes in, hindsight. 

 Q.  Can you tell us what the circumstances were? 
 CHRIS BARYLA:  Sure.  12th hole, par 4, there's a couple of drain lines running across the fairway about 140, 100 yards out maybe.  I was in the first one close to the tee box side, and it's just a drain pretty much standard what you see on a lot of golf courses running across the fairway. 
 Now, the technicality or the difference here is that it's either a French drain or a regular drainage line.  And a French drain has rocks bedded under the grass, and that's why they give you relief for it because it could be dangerous.  So my ball ended up in there.  Wasn't a bad lie, really could have played it, but went out and looked at it, John, my playing partner said we've got a drain here, take a look, so I poked with some tees and that's kind of where it was a little bit unfortunate.  When I poked around with the tees, I hit rocks.  I said, John, rocks; yeah, free drop, whatever, took my drop as per and played out the hole. 
 Now, we went back and looked, and I hit rocks and there were some rocks and there were spots without rocks.  Unfortunately the rocks weren't there throughout the whole thing as a drain.  There just were some rocks there just from construction.  It's not that old of a drain.  When I went out with the officials, some pokes we hit rocks, some pokes we didn't.  And they determined that the rocks were there as a result of construction, not for the purpose of being a French drain. 
 So no relief, incorrect drop, yeah.  Sorry for the long answer. 

 Q.  (About reading rule before). 
 CHRIS BARYLA:  It is, I don't read that well. 

 Q.  Hopefully a happier note, was it earlier this season you lost the playoff on the Nationwide? 
 CHRIS BARYLA:  It was, yeah, Virginia.  Richmond, Virginia lost to Nick Flanagan, we had Perry, another Canadian and lost in the third playoff hole to Nick.  He made birdie and I made par missed about a five or six footer for birdie.  Would have been nice, but getting closer, anyway. 

 Q.  Just talking to Stephen Ames out in the 18th green and he was talking about the greens today about how wet they are.  Are you finding particular difficulty with the dampness of the greens? 
 CHRIS BARYLA:  They are still damp.  They are not as firm and fast as I have seen some greens in the past.  As the afternoon goes on, we'll dry out and it will be a little bit tougher to hold your iron shots. 

 Q.  How are you finding the pin placements? 
 CHRIS BARYLA:  Pin placements have been strategically difficult. 

 Q.  Did you accept your penalty okay after you went back out, or was it something -- obviously a bad way to end the round. 
 CHRIS BARYLA:  What else are you going to do?  Really.  I was a little disappointed, but again, I had the option of calling a rules official in when I was playing the hole, and we didn't do that.  No matter how obvious we thought it was, still had the option of calling a rules official.  In the end, it's my fault. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT