CANADIAN OPEN
July 28, 2007
Chris Baryla
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Can you walk through what happened with the whole rules official? 
 CHRIS BARYLA:  Well, we don't know yet.  It's basically whether or not -- there was a drain that I took a drop from.  My playing partner, John, gave me a drop, gave me relief from a French drain there.  We stuck tees in the ground, found rocks, and took relief as per. 
 So if -- now, I guess the marshal had said that in a few groups of four, there was a guy that was maybe 15 yards further up the drain, and they didn't give him relief.  I guess he got a ruling and didn't get relief, so they are now trying to determine whether the whole thing is not relief, the whole thing is a relief, part of it's relief; whether because I found rocks around my ball, my area was a relief. 
 So they don't really know yet.  It's going to take a little bit of time.  But what I believe the ruling is, is if it's -- if it was relief, it's a birdie and it's either a one- or two-stroke penalty, it depends, for lifting my ball or taking improper relief. 

 Q.  Had you signed your scorecard; are there any issues there? 
 CHRIS BARYLA:  No, not at all.  That's fine. 

 Q.  So you'll either have a birdie -- 
 CHRIS BARYLA:  Birdie, par or bogey.  I'm not really sure, but they are going to come up with an answer by the end of the day they said. 

 Q.  So when you went out -- 
 CHRIS BARYLA:  I just wanted to show them where it was and they wanted to see where I was.  So we poked around, found the rocks in the area that I thought I was.  Other areas, didn't find rocks, so that's why they really are trying to figure it out. 

 Q.  Now, did this come as a total shock to you? 
 CHRIS BARYLA:  Obviously because we didn't really think anything of it.  We would have called for a rules official if there was any doubt.  You always poke around for rocks and make sure it's a drain or not. 

 Q.  Have you ever had anything like this? 
 CHRIS BARYLA:  Oh, all the time.  Whether it's personally or whether it's other people in the tournament you're playing with, I mean, taking incorrect drops or maybe taking drops in the wrong area or incorrect procedures, there's a lot of rules in golf and sometimes you get penalty strokes. 

 Q.  And you said they are going to talk it over and deliberate amongst whoever. 
 CHRIS BARYLA:  What they need to determine is if the whole thing is a drain, if the party was in was a drain, if none of it was a drain, or various shades of gray in between that. 

 Q.  Did they call you on your cell phone? 
 CHRIS BARYLA:  They will call me as a courtesy to tell me what I shot. 

 Q.  Also, about the round, really rough start and then an amazing finish. 
 CHRIS BARYLA:  Started terribly.  Started terribly.  Didn't feel real comfortable in morning.  Wasn't hitting the ball well and wasn't swinging through it very well.  And consequently started with some pretty poor golf, missed a bunch of greens.  I plugged it in two bunkers today, hit it, landed in the fairway, so that didn't help.  That will cost you a lot of strokes during the course of the day. 
 Other than that, it was good.  The back nine played a lot easier a couple downwind par 5s and whatnot.  That turned up.  And definitely made a couple birdies. 

 Q.  At one point I think you were plus-five on the round, did you sort of tell yourself, okay, same business as usual? 
 CHRIS BARYLA:  It's always kind of business as usual, try and play the next hole the best you can. 
 Yeah, I mean, just happy to get a couple birdies and get kind of going back in a good direction. 

 Q.  One difference you had today is you came out with your wrist taped, is there some kind of thing where you hurt yourself? 
 CHRIS BARYLA:  No, just tender from practice, that's about it.  Hitting a lot of balls.  Precautionary. 

 Q.  Anything in terms of come getting up there on Sunday in this tournament? 
 CHRIS BARYLA:  Yeah, well, obviously try to play the first seven holes a little better, not play them 5-over par again.  Yeah, just get off to a good start and see if we can take advantage of a good morning tee time again. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT