BANK OF HOPE FOUNDERS CUP
March 14, 2017
Hannah O'Sullivan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome into the media center Hannah O'Sullivan.  Hannah, this is not your first LPGA event, but you have gotten a lot of attention around this event.  You're a sponsor invite.  How are you feeling going into this week?   
HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: I'm so excited to be here and have this opportunity to play so close to home again this year.  So thankful to the Bank of Hope and the LPGA for giving me this opportunity.   
I'm really looking forward to getting it all started on Thursday.  I've had a lot of fun preparing, and the atmosphere is amazing, to see support from some of my friends and feel and the crowd is so supportive as well.   
So I can't wait to get it started.   
THE MODERATOR: You have lot of familiar faces out there following you this week?   
HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: Definitely.  A lot of my family and friends from around the area are definitely coming out to support.  It'll be a lot of fun.   
THE MODERATOR: How are you feeling?  You're about to start your college career.  Ready?  Excited?  Want to get to college as soon as possible?   
HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: I can't wait.  I can't wait to become a Blue Devil and start at Duke in the fall.  My experiences there will be so special being able to play on the team, and the school is incredible.   
I love the women's golf coaches and the whole team has been so welcoming to me, so I can't wait to join up with them and play for some NCAA championships with them.   
THE MODERATOR: Anybody have any questions?   
 Q.  Can you go over your decision-making process again?  You were going to go pro.  What was the biggest factors in changing your mind?  
HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: Well, I've said all along that I wanted to go to college first.  Last year I did want to take some time to really consider all my options and see what was best for me.   
I was very fortunate to play in a couple LPGA events last year; played in some of the majors.  I loved it.  I know that's what I want to do in the future.  It's my dream to be on the LPGA Tour.   
I also realize this is my one shot to have a wonderful college experience.  I wasn't willing to give that up.  I know everyone is different.  Some people works great for them to turn pro at 17, 18.  They're doing excellent out on tour.   
But I figured that the college experience is very important to me.  I think the tour will always be there.  I want to go to college first, have a great experience, get a great education, and really enjoy that part of my life.   
Then once I graduate college, I can't wait to pursue my dreams of being on the LPGA Tour.   
 Q.  As you say, you played in majors.  What's the most nervous you've ever been on a golf course, and do you like to feel nerves when you walk on the first tee, part of the adrenaline, that sort of thing?  
HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: I think the most nervous I've ever been was when I played in my first major, the U.S. Women's Open, when I was just 14 years old.  My knees were shaking a little bit on the first tee there.   
But I think a little bit of nerves is great for golf.  It helps me focus.  I know when I'm nervous I really care about how I'm doing.  To be able to tunnel that energy into focus and just trying to hit each shot as best I can, I think it helps a lot.   
 Q.  Heading into a tournament like this week, what sort of targets do you set for yourself?  
HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: Well, I just want to go out there and play one shot at time and see what I can do.  Of course I have some goals:  I would love to make the cut and hopefully play pretty well.   
But I know the best way I can do that is to take it one shot at time and try to do my best on every single shot and we'll see what happens.   
 Q.  You graduated high school in the spring, right?  
HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: I graduated high school from Hamilton High School in Chandler in May 2016.   
 Q.  What has your schedule been consisting of and what is it going to look like before you enroll at Duke?  
HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: I was able to play, like I said, a couple LPGA events and majors last year.  Going into this year, this is kind of my first big event.  I'll be starting here, Bank of Hope Founder's Cup, and I'll see where it takes me.   
I my schedule hasn't really solidified jet.  I am playing in an amateur event in France next month.  I'm just going to kind of see where I can get into events.   
But my goal is to qualify for the U.S. Women's Open again.  I will definitely be back at the U.S. Women's Amateur in August.   
 Q.  How do you feel about your game?  Do you come here just seeking experience or are you competing to win?  
HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: I think it's a little bit of both.  Of course as a golfer it's very important to have confidence.  I know that if I play my best I think -- I believe I can to pretty well.  But I do w.   
Ant to learn so much.  It's an amazing opportunity to play alongside the women on the LPGA Tour that I look up to.  These are the people I've always wanted to learn from.   
I really take advantage of this opportunity to soak up as much as I can from everyone as possible.  I am always watching to see what I can learn here and there.  I think that's a very valuable part of this experience.   
 Q.  Will you try to Monday qualify in any LPGA events, or just seeking sponsor invites?  
HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: I'm not sure yet.  Our schedule hasn't really been solidified.  Like I said, I definitely want to play a couple more amateur events this year.  We'll see just where the schedule takes me.   
 Q.  Whose game do you follow in particular?  
HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: Well, I think my role models have always been Annika Sorenstam, Juli Inkster, and Se Ri Pak.  I've grown up looking up to them, and those are who I really try to learn from.   
But I think all the girls out on the LPGA Tour are so strong in so many ways I think I can learn from anyone.  I take advantage of as many opportunities as I can to do so.   
 Q.  Do you know what you'd like to study at Duke?  
HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: I am planning on majoring in economics at Duke.  I am definitely a numbers person, so excited to get that started.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT