JTBC FOUNDERS CUP
March 18, 2016
Hannah O'Sullivan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: This is a big event.  So I just try and have fun and keep it loose for sure.  I try and control the ponytail a little, but I just think it's -- I'm just staying loose and taking it one shot at a time.   
 Q.  What do you think the classmates back at Hamilton will have to say about what you're doing this weekend?  
HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: Well, we're on spring break right now.  They might be on the beach at the moment.  But they're all very supportive, especially my teachers.  I even had one of our counselors come out yesterday.  So they're very supportive.  I can't -- well, I love the school, but I'd rather be out here for a while.  But they'll all be very supportive when I get back.   
 Q.  Do you ever take a moment -- you're only a year or so removed from getting your driver's license, and you made the cut in the LPGA Tour.  Do you ever take a moment to step back and appreciate it all?  
HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: It's awesome, really.  I had the opportunity to play in two LPGA majors last year, and I made the cut in both of those.  I just take what I can from both of those experiences and apply it to today.  I'm very happy and thankful that I was able to do well and make the cut today.   
 Q.  Last thing.  Does making the LPGA cut make it easier to get a prom date?  
HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: I don't know if many guys at my school know about golf.  I'm just happy to make the cut, for myself more than anything.   
 Q.  What did you do on the eagle today?  
HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: I hit a good 3 wood in there to about 2 1/2, 3 feet.   
 Q.  Do you know how far it was?  
HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: It was 223 to the pin.  I think 215 front edge, with a little wind in the face.   
 Q.  Could you sum up your day today.  You obviously shot a really nice round out there.  
HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: I just played pretty clean.  My ball striking was good.  Whenever I missed a couple of shots, I was able to get up and down really well.  My putting was very good.  I kept rolling it well.  I was rolling it great yesterday, but the putts were finally dropping today.   
 Q.  Really nice sand save on 18 to pretty tough pin there.  
HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: Yeah, I short sided myself, but, yeah, it was a pretty good putt for par.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT