JTBC FOUNDERS CUP
March 15, 2016
Hannah O'Sullivan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Just take us through the week and what it's been like for you so far.  
HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: I'm just really happy to be here and grateful for this opportunity that JTBC/LPGA are having me out here this week.  I'm just having a lot of fun.  I played two practice rounds so far, and just getting to know the course.  The course is in great shape and I'm really looking forward to getting the tournament started this Thursday.   
 Q.  You played in the Evian last year after you won the U.S. Amateur.  Does having that under your belt help you a little bit?  
HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: Definitely.  I've actually played in three major championships so far, so I think that experience helps a lot.  I'm not really walking around clueless, but I know some of the faces.  I do know more of the pros now.  So I think it helps a lot.  Maybe it takes a little bit of the pressure off and I'm just looking forward to this week.   
 Q.  I'm sure you said you're not walking around --  
HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: Clueless.   
 Q.  Was that the case the first time?  
HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: I mean, it can be a little overwhelming sometimes.  But hopefully -- so I played my first U.S. Open when I was 14.  So you're just kind of starstruck.  But now, I still look up to these people so much and I know I'm learning and I'm going to continue to learn so much from this week.  But it's a little more comfortable I guess.   
 Q.  You've said all along you want to go to USC.  Has that changed a lot?  A lot of women your age are doing really well out here.  Not tempting for you?  
HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: I'm still totally committed to going to USC.  I'm starting there this August and I'm really looking forward to joining a very strong team and playing for some great coaches.   
 Q.  Why go that route rather than just try to join the LPGA Tour?  
HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: Well, academics has always been very, very important to me.  I'm a Straight-A student.  So I think I value that a lot and going forward, I want to be educated, and also, you never know what's going to happen.  I think getting a degree is very important, and I know I can gain a lot of maturity and independence through that experience that will be very valuable for me.   
 Q.  Do you know what your major will be?  
HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: I'm starting in business.  I'm thinking about minoring in communications or something along those lines.   
 Q.  Michelle Wie said she loved her time at Stanford.  Did you talk to her or anybody on Tour, any of the other ladies about making this decision going forward about going to college?  
HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: I've played with Michelle Wie.  I've talked a little bit with her.  I actually got to play with Stacy Lewis this past weekend in Houston for our Curtis Cup team practice session, and I talked to her about this a lot actually.  She obviously graduated before she turned pro, and she's one of my biggest role models, and she said, really, you gain a lot of maturity and independence.  So I'm definitely looking forward to that route.   
 Q.  Who will you have for a caddie this week, one of your parents?  
HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: One of my friends.  He's a mini-tour player from around here.  His name is Ryan Hoke (ph).   
 Q.  So you're at Hamilton now?  
HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: I'm a senior.   
 Q.  Do the teachers just give you these four days or are you on spring brick?  
HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: I'm on spring break so it works out perfectly.  In general I do travel a lot, so they work with me and they know I'm going to make up all the work anyways and still get high grades on everything.  So it works out.   
 Q.  What are your expectations this week?  
HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: I don't think I really -- I never try and have any expectations.  I just go out there, I mean, they always say, no expectations, but I'm ready for anything.  I'm just happy to be here and I'm going to have fun.  I know I will learn a lot.   
 Q.  Winning the U.S. Amateur and also on the Symetra Tour, does that take your confidence to a different level in terms of your game?  
HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: I think it did help me build confidence.  I know that I can compete at that level but I think it's very important to also stay humble, especially in golf.  You never know what's going to happen.  So I've just continued to work hard and see where this takes me.   
 Q.  Do you learn by observing a lot?  Do you watch the pros that have been out here?  You mentioned Stacy.  Do you talk or observe?  How do you learn when you're out here?  
HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: I do a little bit of both.  I don't want to disturb anyone.  I will talk to anyone when I can but I definitely learn a lot from observing.  I definitely want to be in their shoes some day, so I take every opportunity I get to observe and watch and learn from them.   
 Q.  What are you trying to observe?  
HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: Anything really.  Practice drills, what they are eating, how they carry themselves, definitely.   
 Q.  How young were you when you decided this is what you wanted to be?  
HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: I started playing golf when I was six years old and I started tournaments when I was seven turning eight years old.  I'd say probably when I won my first tournament actually.   
When I was eight, I decided maybe I'm good at this or something and I just decided, I want to stick with it.  From watching, I grew up in the Bay Area, northern California, so there was a Long's Drugs Championship turned into CVS.  We went out there a couple years and I watched, Annika was there and some other great players.  I decided I want to be there some day.  That's where it all kind of started.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT