U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2015
Hannah O'Sullivan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  So that was a heck of a fist bump there on 18, and you're normally pretty reserved.  Was that an emotional feeling for you?  HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: Well, I think on the outside I'm normally pretty reserved, but inside I'm really very competitive, and I guess I showed it a little bit there.  But yeah, I really wanted to make that putt and just see it go in.  It meant so much.   Q.  So you've built a pretty -- you built a lead early and then Lindsey came rolling right back, so you're down.  What are you feeling?  First time you've been down during this championship.  HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: Yeah, I was 2-down, and I was getting a little frustrated out there, but I just had to collect myself and remember that it's only 2-down.  That's so much golf left.  It's really easy to turn a 2-down deficit around, so I just tried to take it one shot at a time.  She gave me a couple openings and luckily I was able to take advantage.   Q.  You won, I think, three holes in a row to get yourself right back to 1-up.  HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: Four holes in a row.   Q.  But then you're talking to 18 only 1-up.  What's going through your mind?  HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: I was frustrated again with 16.  The three-putt on 16 was very easily avoidable.  But going on to 18, I just had to remind myself, I'm still in control, I'm leading.  She's the one that has to do something about it.  I just tried to stay patient and one shot at a time, get it in the fairway, get it on the green, and I didn't really want to leave myself a 10-footer to win the match, but I think it was a really good experience for me to have going into tomorrow, to know that I could drain a 10-footer if I needed to.   Q.  About how far was your first putt?  HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: It was 24, 25 feet, so yeah.   Q.  So bad read or --  HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: I knew it was going to be really slippery.  I guess the holes before I had left -- 16 and 17 I left my putts short, so I was a little frustrated about that.   Q.  Maybe a little too aggressive?  HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: Yes, probably.   Q.  Not that it ever really rained, but the conditions were changing throughout today.  Does that perhaps play with your mind a little bit, too, or am I reading too much into that?  HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: The course is actually playing a lot more difficult today just because of the weather.  The wind was all day, and then we did have some rain out there, but I didn't really change my game plan at all.  I guess the ball was going a little shorter here and there, so I couldn't go for maybe a par-5 that I normally would.  But other than that, it was playing pretty similar.   Q.  You're going to have Mathilda tomorrow.  Have you played her before in anything?  HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: I have.  We played in the Junior Ryder Cup against each other last year, and she's actually a really good friend of mine, so we'll have fun out there, and it'll be a good match.   Q.  Who won that Ryder Cup match?  HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: Oh, I think she -- it was alternate-shot, and she and her partner did.  But we'll see if we can do something about that tomorrow.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT