U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2015
Hannah O'Sullivan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Two 7 & 6s and a 4 & 3.  What's gotten into you this week?HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: I don't know, I'm feeling really good about my game.  I'm just trying to be as confident as possible and taking it one shot at a time.  It's been working out pretty well.Q. So you built a big lead pretty early and then your opponent started chipping away --HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: She was really fighting back.  It was a tough match, definitely.  Even with a big lead, she's a really solid player, so Jennifer was playing really well, and definitely a tough match.Q. How do you keep your mental focus knowing that you've got the big lead but she's starting to -- you're dormie, but next thing you know you're dormie 5, maybe now dormie 4 and working your way up?HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: Through experience.  I've sort of been on both ends of having a big lead or maybe being down by a lot, so I know the match play, anything can happen.  A 3-up lead can go away so quickly, so I just know that you have to end it as quickly as possible and try to keep pushing and try not to give them a chance.Q. Any high moments in your round that really stood out to you or a hole that you played really well, be it for a save or you just played well on?HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: Let's see.  I think I played really consistent today.  No. 2 I made a good 15-footer -- 15- or 20-footer for birdie to get the 1-up lead early, and I sort of cruised from there, really, so I think that was a good shift of momentum in my direction, and I tried to maintain it throughout the day.Q. So it's 3:00, you're already done.  Tomorrow is a sleep-in day.  Matches don't begin until like 11:30, 11:45.  What do you do between now and then?HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: Eat and sleep, definitely.  Maybe I might go out and putt a little bit, but rest is definitely a key factor and very important.Q. How much longer before you go back to school, or are you missing school?HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: My school started July 20th, so I've missed four weeks so far.  My high school is so supportive, and they're really helping me out.  I kind of have to do some homework on the road, so this is good time management training right now for college.  But it's all good, and I'm just excited to be here.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT