U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR FOUR-BALL CHAMPIONSHIP
May 13, 2015
Hannah O'Sullivan
Robynn Ree
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Congratulations, ladies.  It was fantastic.  Have you guys played Mika and Rinko before?  HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: I've played Rinko before in a match play event, the AJGA Wyndham Cup last year, and I think we've played with both of them a little bit, so we do -- we had an idea of what their games were going to be like.  But they played lights out today.   Q.  Kind of another angle of this question, but what's your best memory from this championship and why?  ROBYNN REE: Probably 10 & 8.   HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: Yeah, that was pretty cool.   Q.  What kind of reaction did you get from your friends that night?  Were people blowing up your phones about that?  Did it get very far?  HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: Yeah, I think so.  Yeah, I think we were all sort of -- I don't know about surprised really, but I've always wanted to do that, 10 & 8, and never really thought it would happen, but we were able to do it, and it was a pretty special time for us.   Q.  Did you get any more Twitter followers from that?  ROBYNN REE: I actually did get a couple.   HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: I did.   Q.  So today it's obviously tough to play when you're down.  What was your mindset headed into the final hole?  ROBYNN REE: I mean, we didn't give up, so we were happy with how we were playing.  We just wish a couple of them dropped a little bit, yeah.   HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: Yeah, we had a lot of putts that looked really, really good.   ROBYNN REE: And they just burned the edge.   HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: Some really harsh lip-outs I would say.  But yeah, we just stayed patient and just kept pushing until the end.   Q.  When she holed out that shot on 12, are you kind of like, are you kidding me?  HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: Yeah.   ROBYNN REE: For me, that was my are-you-kidding-me moment.   HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: It made the goal pretty clear for my shot, but yeah, they played really solid.  I think they were 6-under through 8.   Q.  You guys were 3-under through 4, so you started great, and I don't think you had another birdie.  ROBYNN REE: No.   Q.  Both of you burned the cup I don't know how many times.  Was that frustrating?  HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: Oh, super frustrating, but you know, it happens, and I guess it was one of those days, and everything happens for a reason, and we've just got to keep our head up and take the positives from it and learn from it and bring it into our next events and use it as motivation to do better next time we compete.   Q.  What did you learn about yourselves from today and from your games?  And not even just from today, from this whole experience?  HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: I think we definitely learned a lot.  We played solid.  Just learning how to control ourselves under pressure situation, I guess.  I know there were a lot of -- I had a lot of pressure putts that I was able to make, maybe like par putts inside seven feet, inside 10 feet.  So I'll definitely learn from that and see maybe what I did good and what I did not so good and apply it to the future.   Q.  How about you, Robynn?  ROBYNN REE: I'm usually not good with crowds, so I don't really like spectators, but there were so many today, and I thought that I would crack under pressure, but I was able to control myself pretty well.  I mean, my dad said I'm growing up.   Q.  Do you think having a teammate and playing for a team made that a little easier?  ROBYNN REE: Yeah, definitely.  Hannah has a pretty good record, so I felt good having a partner going into the final round, yeah.   Q.  You're both planning to play the US Women's Amateur, correct?  ROBYNN REE: Yes.   Q.  You'll have to get used to crowds, so that's important and coming up, so that's probably the big goal for later this season?  ROBYNN REE: Uh-huh, yeah.  I have my U.S. Open qualifier next week.   HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: And I'm actually coming back to Portland for my U.S. Open qualifier.   Q.  Where are you playing?  ROBYNN REE: I'm playing at Goose Creek.   Q.  You guys are playing a lot of tournaments at USGA events.  Talk about how much fun this was.  It was a totally different atmosphere of a tournament I feel like.  How fun was it?  HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: It was a lot of fun.  I mean, USGA events are always so well run, and I just look forward to playing in USGA events, and this I think was even better to be able to experience it with a teammate and just really enjoy it.  It's a totally different format, and it brought a whole new dimension to it.  Yeah, I really enjoyed it.  It was a lot of fun.   Q.  How much match play have you guys played?  HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: A lot.   ROBYNN REE: Yeah, a lot more in the last couple of years.   Q.  As a single or as a team?  ROBYNN REE: Single.   HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: Single and some team.   Q.  What about playing links golf?  Did it feel like you learned any shots when you got here?  Did you feel like there were any holes in your game or shots you didn't know how to play on a course like this?  HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: I think it really helped me develop my imagination and visualization.  Links golf is really different.  You have to land it -- you have to decide where you have to land it.  It could be 40 yards short of the pin, you never know, so it's definitely a lot of different shots, I think.  It helped me visualize and commit to a shot.  Sometimes I was able to pull it off, sometimes I wasn't, but it was good to learn how to decide what shot I need to play and commit to it.   Q.  So you think this tournament made you guys better players in that sense and in the team sense, just something new?  ROBYNN REE: Yeah, definitely, yeah.  We learned some new things, and I think in the future for our next tournaments, I think we'll do a lot better using our new skills.   HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: Some of the courses might look a little easier now.   Q.  I know you guys are still kind of young, but Solheim Cup for the Americans hasn't gone all that well recently.  Do you feel like your kind of future here at this type of an event will help matters?  HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: Yeah, I think so.  It will help a lot.   ROBYNN REE: The format is like this.   HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: It's really good.  Golf is so much individual, so it's good to learn how to play in a big event like this and learn how to go with the partner dynamic.   Q.  Is that something that the AJGA does?  Have you ever sat down and explained, this is how you play match play, these are strategies, or do you just pick it up as you go?  ROBYNN REE: Usually just pick it up as you go.   HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: I think it comes from experience, really.   Q.  Now that you've been here for a week, since I'm the local guy, what do you think about Bandon Dunes?  What do you think about the resort and the course and having had a chance to experience that?  ROBYNN REE: The resort is beautiful, definitely one of the best courses that I've played and one of the most challenging.  It would be great to come back, but I don't know.  I mean, we have a lot of tournaments in Oregon this year, so it was definitely -- it will help us in the future for our next tournaments, and it was such a great experience coming here.   Q.  The course?  HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: It was so beautiful, and really nothing like I've ever seen before.  I just loved it, and I hope maybe someday I can come back to Bandon and just enjoy it again.   Q.  So a lot was said this week about the age difference heading into this championship.  What are you guys' thoughts on the broad age range of this field?  HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: I think it's really cool to see golf is a special sport, you can play it basically throughout your whole life, so it's cool to see all different generations of golf competing together.  I think it was a great competition, and yeah, I think the format really helps with that, and it's a really special event.   Q.  Can I ask about do your parents normally caddie for you, or how was that kind of dynamic having your parents on the bag?  ROBYNN REE: My daddy has been caddying -- he's usually always the one that caddies for me.  I think his first time caddying for me was when I was seven at the U.S. Kids' Championship, so he's been on my bag for a really long time.   HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: My mom just started caddying I think in the last year for me, and I think she's caddied three times, and all three times I've done pretty well, so hopefully we can keep this going.   Q.  What was the third time?  HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: So it was Women's Am, Symetra and here.   Q.  Has your dad caddied for you?  He had a busted wing, right?  HANNAH O'SULLIVAN: He's caddied for me a couple times when I was younger, but he's pretty busy with work, so my mom is the one that's always really there for my practices and stuff.  I think she fits pretty well for me.   Q.  Are there like special things that you guys do to keep relaxed or maybe hug your dad or like chatter or things like that?  Do those kind of things help out there?  ROBYNN REE: I think my dad, he definitely tries to crack some jokes in the middle to like help me relax, but sometimes it doesn't work.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT