HENGQIN LIFE WTA ELITE TROPHY ZHUHAI
November 5, 2017
Ying-Ying Duan
Xinyun Han
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
DUAN-HAN/Lu-Zhang   
6-2, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Chinese.   
 Q.  First of all, congratulations on the win.  It was kind of a civil war for China and also for Tianjin.  Generally games between players who know each other a lot are difficult.  What do you think was the reason for such a quick win?  
YING-YING DUAN: We are both Chinese players, and we practically grew up together with Zhang Shuai in the team, and we play a lot together so we know each other.  Before the match, I talked to Han about how we play today.  They had a great match yesterday with another young team.   
After our communication off the court about the tactics, we completely dominated the game.  I was particularly good at the baseline, and Han was excellent on the net, as well.  We're so happy that we got the title.   
 Q.  Speaking of knowing each other, we saw that during the award ceremony, Han wanted Lu to say something.  Was it because you knew that she had a rough two years or she had injuries or something?  
XINYUN HAN: Yes, because she is very low-key and she doesn't speak out a lot what she has inside.  But we see each other a lot, and I know her quite well.  She is such a nice girl, innocent and honest.  So I hope that her pro career can be better.   
 Q.  You had some tough opponents this week, and some of them are also quite strong in singles.  So I'd like to ask, Han, compared to those players, you are also good at the baseline.  I do know that you are not fixating on being on top 100, but as outsiders, we are curious why you never can be there.  This should not be the case.  
XINYUN HAN: You can wait, and I hope there will be, one day, this day will come.   
Our team is getting more and more stable, and I don't really have a short board with my techniques.  So I need to focus on my strength and conditioning during the winter training, and I believe this day will come.   
 Q.  Speaking of your team, I'd like to ask, is that Sam, the older brother of Kai-Chen Chang?  
XINYUN HAN: Yes.   
 Q.  His coaching style is kind of interesting.  He sounds like Taiwanese plus English and says "okay" a lot.  What help do you think he brought to you?  Will you be working together for long or is it just a short-time thing?  
XINYUN HAN: Sam grew up in the States, so he doesn't really speak good Mandarin.  He told me that he basically used English all along while he was coaching Kai-Chen Chang.  But for me he would mix Mandarin with English.  Actually, I admire both him and Kai-Chen and we do see them a lot.   
During the French Open, Hu Fu asked Sam whether he would like to coach me, but Sam thought we were joking, because we get along pretty well.   
But the fact is I have been looking for a coach who can help me break through for a long while, and Sam has been in the tennis world for a long time and he is such a dedicated person.  He is also surrounded with many other excellent coaches, so he's a very professional one who gave me a lot of help, which I do appreciate.   
He will send me his schedule for next year and see if my agenda and Kai-Chen's agenda can overlap.  Therefore, he might have more time for me.   
 Q.  At the players gala, we all know that you were wearing H&M that cost 99 kuai but looked very powerful.  And the dress Duan was wearing was also amazing.  Since you asked Duan to team up with you this time, I would assume that you guys are also good friends.  Would you talk about girl things like shopping, dress, makeup stuff?  
YING-YING DUAN: Not really.  I think you just go with whatever style you like.   
XINYUN HAN: She borrowed my eyeliner (smiling).   
 Q.  Since we have already gone this far, I'd like to just go out on a limb and ask Duan a question.  Many find your dress pretty on the gala, but some fans call you Photoshop freak.  Actually, you looked just as good without Photoshop.  
YING-YING DUAN: I don't use Photoshop on all of my photos.   
 Q.  Would you think this is unfair to you?  
YING-YING DUAN: Some photos I don't Photoshop them, so I do find it a little bit unfair, but it doesn't matter.  It doesn't really matter what they say about me (smiling).   
 Q.  The four of you were about the same age for this final, and you were called Junior Flowers because you are the generation after the Golden Flowers.  Maybe you are bearing a lot of pressure from all the expectations from your fans and also looking forward to all those senior players ahead of you.  But actually, you are all very mature now, and you have been in the professional tennis world for a long time.  How do you comment on yourself, your past, and your future?  
XINYUN HAN: We actually grew up together and we see each other too much.  We're almost sick of each other (smiling).   
No, no.  I just feel that players like us are still trying our best.  This is a great thing.  We are so happy for Zhang Shuai and what she has achieved, by far.  We all have different personalities, and we have been through a lot, but I believe our generation compared to the next one is more persistent and we have had a lot of ups and downs, but we are still sticking to it.   
So I believe we will see breakthroughs for single players like Duan and Lu and also myself.  Actually, Xu Yi Fan already had her breakthrough.  We will try to improve our WTA rankings, our rankings in the world.   
Do you think that's right?   
 Q.  The season is almost over after this match or close to being over.  What is your future plan for the both of you and any vacation and winter training?  
YING-YING DUAN: No break yet.  I am flying to Thailand 3:00 a.m. tomorrow for the next tournament, and it will be Taiwan after that.  The season is over after that.  And then I will have a break before preparing for the winter training.   
XINYUN HAN: I am going to Shenzhen tomorrow.  I picked the closest city, because I don't like to flying to somewhere too far away.  After Shenzhen, I may fly to Hawaii next Monday (smiling) but I'm not going to just have fun there, because I'm taking my doctors and my S&C coach with me.   
When I come back, I'll go to Kunming for Carlos and for the winter training there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT