CHINA OPEN
October 4, 2015
Xinyun Han
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Questions in Chinese, please. 

Q. Actually, you played very well today. There were a lot of winners. I want to say, how do you feel about this match? Sometimes you can win very easily, but sometimes you can lose very easily, too, especially for the key moments. Why? You came to the net, but the results were not very good. Is it because of the communication with your coach or because of your own thinking to come to the net? 
XINYUN HAN: Right now I don't know the stats. Maybe I have a lot of unforced errors. As for today's match, I had some chances, but I was not very confident on court, including at those key moments. I felt I was not experienced as my opponent. Especially during the third set, I was not very calm at those important moments. 
You know me, during these days I played ITF matches. To be honest, as for those shots, I would like to try to come to the net. Actually Flavia dealt with it very well. So maybe I should prepare better for coming to the net. 

Q. Just now you said that Flavia is more experienced. Can you be more specific? In which areas is Flavia or experienced or sophisticated? When you meet those older players, is it only the experience?
XINYUN HAN: Yes. As for me, when I play on Chinese courts here, it's the third time for me to be here, to play in the center court. 
Now I'm already 25 years old. As for others, those younger players, they may have more chances to play in the near future, to play those big matches. 
As for many foreign coaches, they may give us a lot of positive things. They believe we are so young in terms of the mentality, we are three or four years lagging behind compared with the foreigners. So maybe right now I am kind of 22 years old. 
Asian players are not as sophisticated and experienced as the foreigners. 

Q. Last time you played Flavia, also in Beijing, was so different. 
XINYUN HAN: Both of us have become older (laughter). 
To be honest, I think my form is better than last time, be it physical or mental. I'm more experienced than the previous meeting with her. 
As for Flavia, after the US Open, she celebrated her victories. So for today she didn't play her best. I should improve to narrow the differences between us in terms of the level of play. 

Q. Just now you mentioned that as for the Asian players, in China, we have so many top‑level matches. Young players may have more chances than you when you were young. Do you think it will be good for those younger players to help them to become more experienced? As for you, what do you need to do to improve your level of play?
XINYUN HAN: As for the younger players, younger than me, they have more chances. In China this year, we have so many WTA matches here, it's better than the situation when we were young. Back then we only have Guangzhou and Beijing matches. Right now we have so many matches held in China. So the younger players have the opportunities to meet those top‑level players that need time to take stock of what they've learned. 
As for many foreign players, they become independent much earlier. As for us, we left our coaches, our national team, quite late. Right now I began to arrange my own itinerary and schedule. It's not like previous. The national team would make the arrangements for me. 
I've actually improved my fitness and physical strength. I'm finding the coaches, my coach is quite young, not a top‑level one. We would like to look for a new coach to train overseas. 

Q. You say many young players have more chances. This is your seventh time here in the China Open. Chinese players have more and more chances to play. As for the China Open, maybe you have fewer chances than the younger players. So what do you think about it?
XINYUN HAN: Actually, I'm not a member of the national team. Those chances may be given to those players in the national team. I think it's fair enough. 
I think, actually, everyone is trying their best to play those matches. Some players may not win the matches early on, but some others can win the matches early on. So these are good opportunities for those younger players to play those bigger matches. 

Q. Just now you mentioned that you need to find your own trainer and coach. Does it mean you are flying solo?
XINYUN HAN: Actually I still need the support of the national team. 

Q. What kind of support do you need from the national team? What is your financial situation and what is your schedule compared with previous days?
XINYUN HAN: The national team would cover our coach cost and airfare in the past. But right now I cover some of it on my own. I cover the cost of my coach. So I feel more pressure compared with those previous days when I was a member of the national team. 
Now I take it day by day. We'll see. Actually, I do not have a sponsorship. Right now the national team would like to give me some money, but there's no full plan in terms of the sponsorship. There are some uncertainties there. 

Q. Actually you're ready to fly solo or you're semi flying solo, is that right?
XINYUN HAN: I'm from the Zhejiang team. In recent years, they've given me a lot of support. Without their support, I may have retired earlier. But the team has given me a lot of support. As for some finances, maybe it is not their say because we're still using the resources of the national team. 
The Zhejiang team would like to cover the cost for the coach, the competition for me, but sometimes they cannot have the final say. 

Q. You would like to find sponsors to cover your costs? 
XINYUN HAN: No, no, no. I do not have any plans to find sponsors. 
As for the budget, the resources of the provincial level team, sometimes you go overseas, sometimes the provincial team would like to cover your costs. 

Q. So in your future your goal is to fly solo?
XINYUN HAN: I think they like me and they support me very well. As to flying solo, it means that you have to cover all your costs. Right now I cannot find sponsors, so there's no way for me to fly solo. 

Q. Last week when I interviewed you, you said in the upcoming year you'd like to adjust your backhand. As for today, your backhand was not very deep. How can you work on your backhand? What is the progress on your backhand?
XINYUN HAN: You can watch my videos of the previous matches. Right now maybe the backhand is not very deep, but it has improved a lot ‑ better than previously. It's not very tight, but it is improving. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT