U.S. WOMEN'S MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 19, 2019
Talia Campbell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So the beginning of the day, I don't know if you knew Ina?
TALIA CAMPBELL: I was unfamiliar with her. I played three holes with her in the practice round because the rest of my group dropped and I joined up with the group ahead of me but that was my first time meeting her on Thursday or so.
Q. Beginning of the day, it's hard, you've had a long week. Was it tough to get in the flow the first couple holes for you?
TALIA CAMPBELL: No, I don't think so. I think it was just normal golf, as is. Nothing out of the ordinary, really, despite my scores on those three holes.
Q. You really settled down and were playing some great golf.
TALIA CAMPBELL: I had a lot of good birdie looks but I just was not able to convert the 10-to 20-foot putts this week. That was kind of the theme of my week because most of my birdies I did get were more or less tap-ins or inside of six feet. It's just the ten to 20-foot range that just wasn't there this week.
Q. And it looked for a minute that you were kind of getting control of the match. You knocked it inside her a couple holes.
TALIA CAMPBELL: Yeah, but she was sticking them close, too. There was really no opening for me to really take advantage of. I mean, I had a good -- I had a few good birdie looks to square the match or to get some momentum, but yeah, just didn't convert, and she was putting a lot of pressure on, too. She did not make any mistakes. You had to go out and win the hole. That was the theme of the day; you had to win the hole.
Q. 13, you had one that just skirted the hole.
TALIA CAMPBELL: Exactly, 13, and 16, another good look inside her but just couldn't convert it. Again, because she was not making mistakes and she was playing so flawlessly, you had to take advantage of the opportunity.
Q. On 15, you were probably, what, 65, 70 yards or something like that?.
TALIA CAMPBELL: So I was 75 yards. The pin was in the back. We were into the wind and I thought I hit a pretty perfect wedge shot, like flighted it perfectly the trajectory that I wanted, but it flew probably a yard too long, and then because there's a hill, a yard turns into 15 yards.
Q. You really didn't have much coming back. The green was falling away?
TALIA CAMPBELL: Exactly. Exactly.
Q. And then just in general, I know 16, again, you were inside and you had a pretty good look at birdie.
TALIA CAMPBELL: Yeah, I probably had six feet for birdie and just caught the low lip. And obviously she made a great, probably like eight-foot putt for birdie, too.
Q. Both putts, the last two holes, the one she made for par on 15,?
TALIA CAMPBELL: Even on 14, she made the good, I don't know, probably 5-, 6-footer. Probably 6-footer for a par. She just did not have any holes in her game today. I mean, that's really tough to do. Like it's just tough to go out here in the wind and make birdies. There were no holes that were given away.
Q. Just as far as the week goes, you told me the other day, you've been waiting a few years to get to this championship, and now you're here and you got to the finals, and it was an amazing performance.
TALIA CAMPBELL: It was. I guess I all expected to make the finals, and I know I'm going to win one of these days. I guess it's just nice to have picked up the golf clubs again this summer after having them away, and hanging around in the championship long enough to figure my game out because I more or less came into the week kind of winging it, and glad that I was able to figure it out.
Q. Before you got to the first practice round, you literally had not played like much at all, right?
TALIA CAMPBELL: Yeah, I hit once between my qualifier and the practice round. So it was a good run, all things considered.
Q. And you had some nice support from your family and friends?
TALIA CAMPBELL: Yeah, it was great.
Q. Who showed up on the 4th hole?
TALIA CAMPBELL: That was my Aunt Beth. They flew in from Dallas last night to come watch me play. I think that was in a microcosm, that was a fun week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT