U.S. WOMEN'S MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 18, 2019
Talia Campbell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Long day of golf?  
TALIA CAMPBELL: Yeah, it was. Wow.   
 Q.  But your first attempt and you're into the championship match. I know you said before you got here, you said you'd been wanting to get to this championship for like, it feels like five years, right?  
TALIA CAMPBELL: Yeah, exactly, because I never had any desire to go pro, and I knew coming out of college, working in investment banking, I would not get to pick up the clubs. So this is the first year I've gotten to touch the clubs again and I mean, like I said the other day, the field top to bottom is so accomplished. So it's great to get out here and play against people who love golf and who also have passions elsewhere.   
 Q.  This is the kind of match you had against Lauren this afternoon, is kind of why you play golf, right?  
TALIA CAMPBELL: It was a dogfight. It was tough. I think it's a testament to her, too. She's such a great player. You see her picture hanging up around here. I'm very glad to have survived.   
 Q.  16, you ended up -- were you trying to come in from the left on that hole?  
TALIA CAMPBELL: I was. My drive's been a little shaky this week, but fortunately the course is set up where I can hit a good 3-wood on most holes. So I've kind of put the driver away, hitting 3-wood, and came in from the left side because it's such a short hole and I'm still going to have a wedge. No need to flirt with the bunkers.   
 Q.  You made obviously a great approach and left yourself a nice putt.  
TALIA CAMPBELL: Yeah, my right-to-left putts were definitely pretty good today, in the three- to five-foot range.   
 Q.  I should say, you may have missed one. It was, a, a great match, but b, you also had an amazing day, right, when you look at the entire --  
TALIA CAMPBELL: Yeah, for sure. I think today was a big step forward in my game, also. It's definitely the rust is off and I'm starting to play Talia golf again, so I'm excited for tomorrow. I hope the wind blows again.   
 Q.  The breeze, does this remind you at all of Texas?  
TALIA CAMPBELL: It does. It reminds me a lot of Texas. I'm not hitting full shots on anything. I'm choking. I'm playing three-quarters and I think it just requires a little more creativity, too, rather than fly it next to the hole and have it stop. So I like that kind of golf.   
 Q.  It shows that you have to be a lot more creative and strategic, too, right?  
TALIA CAMPBELL: Yeah, exactly, for someone who doesn't get to practice or play that much, it's nice to not play golf in a bubble because I don't always hit it where I want it to go.   
 Q.  So obviously you're in New York City now, but you grew up playing golf in Texas. Whereabouts?  
TALIA CAMPBELL: At Brook Haven Country Club in Dallas. Good names to come out of there, Jordan Spieth, Verplank.   
 Q.  Did you have a particular instructor there?  
TALIA CAMPBELL: Cameron McCormick. He's been my instructor since I was 13, and I give him all the credit for making my game what it is today.   
 Q.  How often do you -- since you're in New York working eight-hour weeks -- did you try to work on your swing? Is there anything you can do outside of playing 18 holes?  
TALIA CAMPBELL: No. I really just kind of wing it. I've always had an athletic swing, rather than the probably picture-perfect golf swing. So I think that's very helpful now to just kind of rely on the athleticism, the timing, so that I can still compete against all these great players.   
 Q.  This morning, any key to that match that you can say put you over the top a little bit?  
TALIA CAMPBELL: Definitely ball-striking. My irons are pretty much going on a line, cutting through the air. So that's been -- and I think that's also putting pressure on my opponents, too, when I'm hitting it pretty close and getting good birdie looks. I hope I can do that tomorrow.   
 Q.  That can wear people down, especially in the wind.  
TALIA CAMPBELL: Yeah, and law of averages, too. More opportunities for me to make those putts.   
 Q.  Have you heard from a lot of your friends and former teammates at Notre Dame over the past couple days?  
TALIA CAMPBELL: I have. I have. They are cheering me on. They are hoping that the luck of the Irish keeps visiting me. I'm sure someone's probably lit a candle at the Grotto, one of my assistant coach or head coach. But they are very excited for me.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT