U.S. WOMEN'S MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 17, 2019
Talia Campbell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Chatting with Gretchen, I saw the card where you just really seemed to play solidly this afternoon. A lot of pars?
TALIA CAMPBELL: Yeah, it was a lot better than the morning session. Much more Talia-like, I guess you to say with the good ball-striking and crisper approach shots. Just trying to get the putter to heat up now.
Q. Pars, you've got to make a birdie occasionally, especially out here, right?
TALIA CAMPBELL: Yeah, very windy. The course is definitely playing tough.
Q. How would you describe your week as a whole as far as how you've played and getting to this point to get to the quarterfinals?
TALIA CAMPBELL: I'd say I'm knocking the rust off. I'd say I've played more golf the past few days than I have cumulatively this year.
So just trying to knock the rust off and get back into things, and sharpen up the wedges and just get a little bit more confidence off the tee.
Q. So what do you play like through the summer? Is there just not a lot of opportunity to play with work?
TALIA CAMPBELL: Yeah, exactly. So I probably work 80-plus hours per week, and being in Manhattan, golf is not necessarily accessible.
So my goal is to play twice a month, but usually life has a way of getting in the way. I've probably played less than ten times this summer, but I do what I can.
Q. You want to get ready for a qualifier, too.
TALIA CAMPBELL: Exactly. So before my qualifier, I actually took a little vacation. Took a few-day trip to England to play a few of the, I guess, "Royal" courses, and that was a nice little tune-up before the qualifier. So I was lucky to do that.
Q. Is this your first Women's Mid-Am?
TALIA CAMPBELL: It's my first year I'm eligible. I feel like I've been waiting five years or so to finally play in this thing. It's been a lot of fun so far.
Q. Really had it on your radar. When did you turn 25?
TALIA CAMPBELL: In October of 2018. So I'm turning 26. I missed it by like a month or so. It's nice to finally be here.
Q. Now that you are here, are there players you competed against in college or juniors or any other aspect of the game?
TALIA CAMPBELL: A lot of the younger players, I would say I came across them in college, like Marissa Mar, who I drew in the first round. She's an incredible player and hits it very well, too. I felt like I was playing against myself.
I'd say it's very impressive like how many great players there are out here, whether they are in their 20s, 40s or 50s. From top to bottom, there's a lot of talent.
Q. Do you still feel like you maybe haven't played your best so far this week?
TALIA CAMPBELL: The best is definitely yet to come. It's all going to come down to the putter. It's on the lip. Now I just need them to drop in. But I think there are good things in store for tomorrow.
Q. Were you familiar with Forest Hills before you got here?
TALIA CAMPBELL: No, I was unfamiliar with it. I wasn't even quite sure where Flagstaff was relative to Phoenix, whether it was north or south, and the fact that it's in the mountains up here is even more of a surprise. It's my first time I guess playing in high altitude. Trying to figure that out.
Q. Still not quite a hundred percent with that?
TALIA CAMPBELL: Yeah, I think it's okay, fortunately the wind is kind of a mask, also, so you've got to factor in that calculation to where it's not just straight, less ten percent or less eight percent or something. So I'm glad that it's pretty windy. Growing up in Texas, I'm used to that.
Q. And that's been more of a factor as the week has gone on, hasn't it?
TALIA CAMPBELL: Yes, and looks like it's going to be a factor tomorrow, as well. So I hope the wind keeps blowing. It definitely plays to my strengths of ball-striking.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT