DUBAI OPEN
December 17, 2014
Angelo Que
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:   Two‑time Asian Tour winner and currently seventh on the Order of Merit on the Asian Tour.   Angelo, you've had a great run this season, probably your best career run so far in ten years.   A win in the final event would top it all, wouldn't it.  
ANGELO QUE:   Yeah, winning here would mean everything to me, especially this is the last event of the year, year‑ending event and inaugural DUBAi Open.   I'm very excited to be here.   Everybody was talking about it, that they are waiting for me to come here, and I feel at home here because a lot of Filipinos are working here.   I saw some of my old friends.   Looking forward to it.  
CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:   How is the game feeling?   I know it's towards the end of the year now.  
ANGELO QUE:   The game is okay.   I think the physical aspect, I've been playing since August.   I haven't had enough rest.   My body is not working so well right now.   I hurt my groin yesterday.   Going to go see the physio, and hopefully by tomorrow I'll be close to 80 per cent.   
   
 Q.   You had a chance to look at the Els track?  
ANGELO QUE:   Yeah, actually it's a good track.   You need precision irons.   You need to hit your irons precise.   The greens are a bit tricky.   It's a course where you need to know where to hit your iron shots, your second shots.   You can't miss it on the wrong side.   
The conditions are nice, even though it's nice, it's still very tricky, like yesterday I missed some in the wrong side and no matter how good of a shot you hit it, you're not going to be able to hit it close.   So it's very important to know where to put your ball on the second shot.   
   
 Q.   How much of an impact is it as you go around, if you feel you have some sort of home support?  
ANGELO QUE:   Yeah, like yesterday when I was playing, I noticed a lot of the staff came up to me and said hi to me.   I don't know them but they know I'm Filipino.   It makes me proud to be here as a Filipino.   I know that they are all behind me supporting me.   It's just like home.   
   
 Q.   What's the state of golf in the Philippines at the moment?   How would you assess how golf is developing?   
ANGELO QUE:   Well, golf is developing pretty quick right now.   We have pretty strong local tour, all thanks to ICTSI and Mr.Enrique Razon.   He's pretty much the Godfather of golf right now in the Philippines.   Because of him, all these new tournaments are coming up in the Philippines and a lot of youngsters are taking up golf again.   And even the old ones are keeping in shape and practicing hard just to keep up.     
CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:   Anything in your wardrobe to surprise us or live up to your name of "Human Highlighter"?   
ANGELO QUE:   No, I think I'll probably surprise Mr.Clarke tomorrow, we'll see.   I think I'll do the egg plant look tomorrow.   
CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:   Look forward to that.   
   
 Q.   What's your target?  
ANGELO QUE:   Coming into this week, I want to win.   But unfortunately I can't say that I'm 100 per cent right now.   Feeling a little bit low on energy because I'm just tired.   But I really want to win, and that's why I'm going to take the risk of not practicing today, just resting, so that by tomorrow, I'll be ready.   
   
 Q.   And what's contributed to this being your best year?   You said something clicked?  
ANGELO QUE:   I've been seeing my coach a lot this year and we've been working hard on my putting.   And also normally in a year, I only see him once or twice a year because we're so busy.   He works with the national team and I play abroad.   So we don't really see each other but this year we've been seeing each other a lot, so we've been working on my game and my putting, which has always been my weakness before.   
I think it clicked during Hong Kong and CIMB where I pretty much holed everything.   I've been hitting it the same pretty much every event, but the only difference was I holed more putts during Hong Kong and CIMB.   
   
 Q.   And your targets for next year, seeing as this has been such a good season?   
ANGELO QUE:   Well, my target next year is since my plan was to finish Top‑10 this year on the Order of Merit, which I did; I think next year my main goal is probably to win the Order of Merit, if I could.   If I get a good start in the first few events of the year, maybe I'll have a chance.   
You know, all you need is a little bit of luck and a little bit of faith and believe that you can do it.   
CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:   Thank you, rest easy and good luck this week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT