CIMB CLASSIC
October 30, 2014
Angelo Que
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Looked like a tale of two nines.   Was it?  
ANGELO QUE:   I just hit it‑‑ I hit it good on both nines, actually.   It's just that on the Front 9, I hit it pretty much close every hole.   All my birdies on the front were‑‑ the furthest birdie putt was like five feet.   
So the difference is on the Back 9 I hit the greens, but I just wasn't hitting closer.   I think the pins on the Back 9 are tougher to get on.   On the front they're pretty much like more open.  
But all in all I'm still very happy I only missed two fairways and two greens today.   Played very solid.   Didn't have any doubts with myself today, so good.  
   
 Q.   Yeah, I mean it looked like you were just swinging freely and just on top of your game, like what you've been doing the past few weeks?  
ANGELO QUE:   Yeah.   I think I'm just doing right.   Trusting myself, where back before every time I'm teeing up, I'm still debating what to do, what kind of shot I'm going to hit.  
These past few weeks I've just been sticking to my game plan, and every time I have a shot, I commit to it, trusting it.   You know, and also the past few months we've been playing in windy conditions, so I think that helped a bit.  
   
 Q.   You talk about committing to the shot.   Is it very difficult to do?   I mean you talk about sometimes not being committed or having different thoughts about doing something?  
ANGELO QUE:   Yeah, well, whenever you're not sure, you know, you end up hitting a pretty lousy shot because you still haven't‑‑ it's not free, you know.   You're having doubts.   So when you commit to a shot, even if it's the wrong club, at least you've committed to the shot.  
I learned that in Hong Kong, especially on the last hole where I committed to the shot and I hit a great shot.   From then on, you know, I think you just have to commit to it; you just have to trust it.   Whatever will be will be.  
   
 Q.   This doesn't come too often, does it?  
ANGELO QUE:   Not really, especially when you're playing bad, when you got no confidence, low confidence, a lot of thoughts go into your head.   Not good thoughts.   But when you're playing well, playing with a lot of confidence, no pressure, and you can just commit to it.  
   
 Q.   This sets you up nicely for the next few days, doesn't it?  
ANGELO QUE:   Yeah.   Well, I'm not thinking too far ahead.   I'm just going to keep on playing how I'm playing.   I mean ever since Hong Kong I haven't been thinking of the result towards the end.   I'm just thinking of the present and staying in the present, trying to hit every shot.   Just one shot at a time.  
   
 Q.   This must be some of the best golf that you've played in a while.   
ANGELO QUE:   Yeah, I think so.   You know, although in the past years I've won, but this is the most consistent I've played actually, where I hit a lot of greens, I hit a lot of fairways, I made a lot of putts.   I haven't won in four years, but you know, I'm playing my best golf.   I think I'm more relaxed.  
   
 Q.   How do you attribute this free‑flow, free‑swinging Angelo?  
ANGELO QUE:   I think my wife, I think, because she takes care of everything at home.   All I have to do is just play.   You know, that's the best deal you're ever going to get.   
And so, yeah, I'm always thinking about home, but at the same time I'm not worried because my wife is there and she's taking care of everything and she just tells me, you know, just do well and I'll take care of everything.  
   
 Q.   Are you hitting balls before you go out for a round or are you just going straight up?  
ANGELO QUE:   No.   I'm hitting the ball good.   I don't want to mess it up.   Because I'm hitting good I want to go to the range?   No.   I'm hitting the ball good.   I want to remember those thoughts before I tee off, so I just keep doing what I'm doing, no range.   Just chip putt, work on my putting.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT