HONG KONG OPEN
October 17, 2014
Angelo Que
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  ANGELO QUE:   Happy with how I played, the breaks of the game‑‑ I 3‑putted 15 and didn't make my putt on 18.   But all in all, if you count the putts that I holed yesterday, it evens out.   I'm still pretty glad where I am right now, still have a chance.   
Although I really wanted to play with Ernie, but maybe on the last day.   I've just got to keep my composure and be relaxed and just keep doing what I'm doing.  
   
 Q.   You did well last year.   This is a course you like?   
ANGELO QUE:   I did.   I finished tied fifth here last year.   I hit the ball actually better last year.   I remember I was always pretty close to the flag.   I always had a chance for birdie.   But the putter failed me last year in the last two rounds.   Although I still played good.   
But still, I could have done better.   This year, the iron play is not as good as last year but the putting is better.   So I think that works better for me.   Every time I'm holing putts, I tend to go low.   Even if I'm hitting the ball good, the score is just average.  
   
 Q.   Three off the lead, still right in there?   Fancy your chances?   
ANGELO QUE:   Pretty confident.   My goal this week was just to finish in the Top‑10 actually, because I'm just trying to keep my card this year.   We are getting towards the end of the year.   I just want to have a spot next year, have a spot on the Asian Tour.   
My target, my expectations are actually pretty low.   Not trying to set it so high that I won't be disappointed.   Just trying to enjoy it.   Don't want to stress out too much.   
   
 Q.   What's the situation with your card at the moment?  
ANGELO QUE:   I'm actually 40th or 41st in the Order of Merit but trying to get in at least to the co‑sanctioned events.   I think if I can finish in the Top‑30, it's still pretty good.   
But me and my friends, we're all looking at the Order of Merit.   I think to keep your card this year will be 50,000 or 60,000 U.S.   So if I can get it there right away, at least toward the end of the year, I can play aggressive.  
   
 Q.   What are you sitting on at the moment?  
ANGELO QUE:   Close to 40.   
   
 Q.   So you're not far off?   
ANGELO QUE:   Not far off, yeah.   That's why I just want to keep my card and start being aggressive.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel pressure?   
ANGELO QUE:   Not really.   Of course there is, but I'm trying to have fun.   That's why I keep talking to my caddie, talk about other things, like food or the next event.   We don't really think of the pressure of trying to keep our card.   We do have a chance of winning, but there's still two more days.   Anything can happen especially with my experience.   I'm just trying to keep it real, keep it in the present.   Just taking one shot at a time.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT