ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 1, 2011
Richard Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. 5-under for the day through 15 holes and a double-bogey, nice, steady finish, how do you feel overall with your day?  
 RICHARD GREEN: Just one of those, a bit of a sloppy swing off the tee unfortunately. But overall, very solid golf and I feel like my game is sort of under control, and you know, just going to go into the weekend and try to build my score again, and you know, go with it I guess.   
  
  Q. What's pleased you most about your play these two days?  
 RICHARD GREEN: I guess my composure really has been very good, and I've been able to score well enough to keep momentum going along. You know, my putting has been very good, and you know, I've driven the ball very well apart from it obviously the 7th hole today. But confidence is good.   
  
  Q. You talked about building a score, elaborate for us.   
 RICHARD GREEN: I don't think it's the sort of golf course that you can sort of say at the start of the day that you're going to go out and beat it. You've just got to go out there and try and take each shot as it comes and try and build your score. If you make a birdie early, just keep on the right side of momentum and keep the roll going, if you like. That's what I've been able to do pretty well and it's sort of worked for me, and being able to sort of build confidence from a really good start. That's what I'm going to focus on tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Your record here is quite fantastic but you have not won. Is this the year?  
 RICHARD GREEN: I hope so. But obviously we have two days to go and the pressure will increase a little bit I'm sure but I'm aware of that, and just tackle it as good as I can.   
  
  Q. Did you play better than the score shows?  
 RICHARD GREEN: I think, so yeah, it was a shame that I took double-bogey at 7, but that happened, and it's hard to sort of get through 72 holes of this course and not have some little hiccup.   
 But yeah, I played just as well as I did yesterday, and I think if I had not had that bad 7th hole, I think I probably would have had just as good a score. Very happy with how I'm playing and how I'm approaching the golf course and have an opportunity.  
  
  Q. The course seems to be getting more difficult and the greens getting firmer, how is the course?  
 RICHARD GREEN: The greens are getting firmer and the ball is bouncier, and the wind is obviously coming up. So there's some holes that you think the wind is from the right, and you know, it might be from the right now and then the next hole it might be somewhere different.   
 You've just got to pick your moments and try to focus on all of the right aspects are trying to shoot a score and reading the conditions, and I've been able to do that.  
  
  Q. Anxious for the weekend?  
 RICHARD GREEN: Yeah, absolutely. I mean, it's a tough golf course and you've got to play good golf around here to score. If you don't play good golf, you won't score. Obviously I'm going to go out there and try my best and try to do the same things and hit the ball the same and putt the same and hopefully the score will come the same way.  
  
  Q. From what I could see, you were giving yourself a lot of birdie opportunities out there.   
 RICHARD GREEN: Yeah, it was a nice round of golf again, and I played just as well today as I did yesterday. You know, hopefully it continues over the weekend, again. It's just a matter of I'm comfortable with how I'm approaching the course and how I'm playing, and just keep doing the same thing, staying on the same wave length and I'll be all right. It's not an easy course to stay comfortable on.   
  
  Q. What is it about your mind-set that gets you into that mode here?  
 RICHARD GREEN: I think it's just one of those golf courses, like every golf course we play, you have to focus, and this golf course is a difficult golf course and you have to be extremely focused and obviously you need to be on top of your game.   
 Fortunately, I'm concentrating very well and able to concentrate, and you know, my swing is holding up and hopefully we can get through the weekend with that. Hiccups like that would be nice and just keep progressing with the score would be nice.  
  
  Q. I read you had done some caddying recently on the Ladies European Tour?  
 RICHARD GREEN: Yeah, I did, a couple of weeks ago I caddied for Marianne Skarpnord. We had a good week and I saw the game from a very different perspective. I've never seen it from it that perspective before.   
  
  Q. So did you learn something from that then?  
 RICHARD GREEN: Yeah, I did, definitely. It's very difficult to explain, but from a player's point of view, playing the game is very different than being a caddie. When you're looking at a player from the outside, it's a different kind of -- you can see some of the things that you can do better, or even me that I could do better. So I learned a lot actually. It was good.   
  
  Q. Is that something you might do again?   
 RICHARD GREEN: We'll see.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT