PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 17, 2010
Richard Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Disappointed walking off 18?  
 RICHARD GREEN: The finish was not quite what I wanted to be honest. I sort of walked on to the par 3 16th, thinking, you know, stay aggressive and keep to your plan and thinking I was tied in the lead and I just hit a sloppy, bad tee shot to be honest and poor chip. A good four to be honest.   
 Obviously 17 was a great chance at a birdie, and I thought the putt was in off the putter. I thought it was just going to be another one, but you can only make so many, can't you.   
 But 18 was a bit disappointing, too. Poor second shot, left myself too much work.   
  
  Q. What was the story of your day in terms of how you hit the ball?  
 RICHARD GREEN: I hit the ball good all week. Today has probably been my best day with the putter I've had all week. I've averaged 31 putts for the round over the first three days and today they started to go in which was great. I've been playing well for a while now so I've been looking forward to these few weeks with the nice weather.   
  
  Q. Was it a case of keeping an eye on the leaderboard over the last three holes especially?  
 RICHARD GREEN: Absolutely, yeah. I like to know where I'm at, and I also noticed the leaderboard on 16 green and noticed that Pablo dropped a couple of shots and I was in the lead by a couple.  
  Obviously dropped a shot on 16 and put me one in front. But, you know, we just have to wait and see what happens now. I've done as good a job as I can probably do. It was a shame at the last, the last three holes, but it is what it is.   
  
  Q. What is your gut feeling, do you feel it's enough or not?  
 RICHARD GREEN: I would have liked to it at least have been one more (under par). Even walking off 17, I would have liked to have been one more. 20-under I felt would have done it. But we'll see.   
  
  Q. I suppose it was the bogeys that proved costly; 11 birdies you had on your card.   
 RICHARD GREEN: 65 doesn't seem quite right to me after carding so many birdies. You know, it's as good as I can do. I'm here now and just going to wait and see.  
    
  Q. What were the highlights of all that raft of birdies today?  
 RICHARD GREEN: You know, just much of the same all week. It's hard to sort of pick a hole out, but I played the third hole very well today, which was nice. I have to say that's a highlight just to get me going.  
    
  Q. You needed a fast start really.   
 RICHARD GREEN: Absolutely. And I a really nice 8-iron shot into 8. That was a great birdie to get back one of the dropped shots and keep momentum going.   
 You know, I guess I'd have to say those are the highlights I suppose. We'll see what happens. A bit of a lazy way to finish.   
  
  Q. The putt on 17 looked all the way in the hole.   
 RICHARD GREEN: It was in off the putter. Didn't have enough speed. Just didn't roll out. That's how it has been this week, the greens have been a bit unpredictable and you can only try your best.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT