VIVENDI CUP 2010
September 24, 2010
Richard Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Good round?   
 RICHARD GREEN: Yeah, absolutely. 36 holes without a bogey, that's pretty good. Didn't it's been really solid golf and I've been really consistent and hitting the ball well and making the birdies, just making the birdies on the par 5s and cruising along pretty good. Hopefully that continues over the weekend.  
  
  Q. And it's on the back of Austria and that final round there?  
 RICHARD GREEN: Yeah, absolutely. I started to play really well in Ireland, probably some of the best golf I've ever played, and I went home for three weeks after that and come back, and Holland was a bit difficult, things were not quite right there and went to Austria and sort of slow and crept back to the sort of form that I started to slow in Ireland and this week's continued. Hopefully good things to come.  
  
  Q. And it is just a matter of making progress sometimes, is it?   
 RICHARD GREEN: Yeah, we are probably a little bit impatient in regards to form. I want it to be there all the time, and instantly after, I've been sort of been off for a break are or practise or whatever but you've got to work into it, you've got to work it back and I've slowly but surely have done that. In a nice place at the moment.  
  
  Q. A far cry from Portugal where your game was not there at all?  
 RICHARD GREEN: Yeah, start of the year, my equipment was not right and I was low on confidence. It's been a hard road sort of this year to get back to sort of form but I feel like I'm playing some of the best golf of my life. Hopefully just some nice lights shine on me from above.  
  
  Q. There have been some nice lights; there was a wonderful double rainbow.   
 JAMES MORRISON: That was very nice. It's been a nice week, a nice place. It is a beautiful setting.   
  
  Q. I don't know if one of the two courses favours you more than the other?   
 RICHARD GREEN: No, not really. Length-wise, they are both very playable for the length that I hit the golf ball, and I'm not the longest hitter on Tour, so it's nice to be able to get up on the par 5s occasionally and play. But, you know, the course is in nice condition, and it sort of favours me most of the time.  
  
  Q. Nice conditions despite the deluge over the night?  
 RICHARD GREEN: Yeah, it was a little bit wet there obviously today.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT