THE ABU DHABI GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 16, 2009
Richard Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  RICHARD GREEN: I'm very happy with the way I played, especially the front nine, I had it on a roll there and I didn't think I could do a thing wrong. I'm hitting a lot of good drivers and putting very well on these greens, and I think that's what you need to do around here.   
  
  Q. Pretty tough if you're off-target.   
 RICHARD GREEN: Yeah, if you're missing fairways, it's always pretty difficult to try and rescue your pars and fortunately I haven't had to do that too often. The driver, I've hit it as best as I have in a long time today.   
  
  Q. The last time we spoke was with that wonderful form in the World Cup so, this is a great continuation.   
 RICHARD GREEN: Yeah, I've been playing pretty well. I played well at the World Cup, played well at the Volvo Masters and played well at the Australian Open this year. It's been a steady progression. I feel like this is the start of the year for me now, and ready for a good result, hopefully this week, and then through the year.   
  
  Q. You did say at the end of last year that you're looking forward to getting into this Race to Dubai, having a good, full productive season.   
 RICHARD GREEN: Well, I've always -- ever since I started playing on the Tour, I've always tried to get out of the box pretty early and take a lot of the pressure off sort of later in the year. I tend to play a little bit better that way.  
 If I can sort of play well in this early part, I'll be pretty happy.  
  
  Q. Did it help playing alongside Graeme Storm who was playing well?  
 RICHARD GREEN: He was cruising an, you would never know he was contemplation that well really. He had a good back nine and I had the good front nine. At the end he got me by a shot, but a good little tussle.   
 It's not as easy as it looks.   
  
  Q. Chance to take the outright lead on the last?  
 RICHARD GREEN: Yeah, I just missed a putt on 17 and 18, so it was very close.   
  
  Q. In a great position now for the weekend?   
 RICHARD GREEN: Yeah, I'm very happy with the spot that I'm in, and going into the weekend, it looks good.   
 FastScripts by ASAP Sports ...  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT