WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 21, 2007
Richard Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Tough match. 
 RICHARD GREEN:  Yeah, I had no opportunities, you know.  I got off to a good start, and just a couple of bad shots through the middle of the round cost me more than anything.  So back to the drawing board, I suppose. 

 Q.  It was always going to be tough against Phil Mickelson, but you gave it a good run. 
 RICHARD GREEN:  Yeah, it was always going to be towards the end of the round where it was going to be finalized, I suppose, and I'm sort of pleased that even after messing up a little bit I fought back enough to get to the last hole and get it even square and go to 19. 
 I played pretty good, just a couple of bad shots it cost me.  I suppose against the best in the world you can't really do that. 

 Q.  Which shots do you feel were costly? 
 RICHARD GREEN:  Par 3, 14, I think, and the par 3, 16, those two shots there.  I mean, Phil holed a putt on 13 to get back to square, and then he played pretty steady from that point on, really.  I just made a couple of mistakes with bad iron shots. 
 It's a problem that I know that I've got in my game, but I just keep trying to work on it and iron it out more than anything. 

 Q.  Did you just push it a bit on 16? 
 RICHARD GREEN:  Pushed it on 16, pushed it on 14.  Yeah, it's one of those things that you kind of know how your body reacts under pressure.  I certainly know that, that's for sure. 

 Q.  Were you disappointed with the birdie effort on the last? 
 RICHARD GREEN:  Yeah, a little bit, yeah.  I sort of said to Stuart, you would think you'd hit it, wouldn't you?  It wasn't a very good effort unfortunately. 

 Q.  Did you consider conceding his?  It didn't look very long. 
 RICHARD GREEN:  To win the match, no.  He misses that putt and we go to 19. 

 Q.  It was just long enough to -- 
 RICHARD GREEN:  It was just long enough to make it interesting.  He was probably never going to miss it, but obviously in match play you've just got to make the guy win.  That's certainly how I feel I would have treated it, as well.  That's the way to go. 

 Q.  Did you come all the way from Melbourne? 
 RICHARD GREEN:  Yeah. 

 Q.  That's a long way to come. 
 RICHARD GREEN:  As it turns out, one day, yeah.  It's always a bit disheartening.  I haven't busted through the first round of the Match Play for three years now.  Hopefully I can do it at some stage.  My form was pretty good coming into this week, and I felt like I played all right, you know, but just a couple of bad shots like I say. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT