JOHNNIE WALKER CLASSIC
February 11, 2006
Richard Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:  Richard, well played.  Your golf is just as hot as the weather out there.  Tell us about it.
RICHARD GREEN:  Yeah, it was a nice day today.  It was a nice Saturday's round of golf to put yourself in position for tomorrow, and I was quite pleased with the way I played.  It was very solid.
CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:  And of course, your seventh round in the 60s, you must be enjoying the form that you're in right now.
RICHARD GREEN:  Yeah, very much so.  It all clicked into place last week in Dubai, and it's been continuing on pretty nicely through there.  I feel really good mentally and very confident, and very stable, which is just how I want to be.
Q.  Are you able to tell    obviously no matter what happened last year    the disruption in the end of the year, but the turnaround last year?
RICHARD GREEN:  Well, I changed golf ball, actually the start of the tournament last week in Dubai.  The one I was with (Srixon ph) doesn't suit me as a player and that's pretty much all that was available for me at the time.  I never really thought that it was going to be that much of an issue.  And I kind of blamed myself for a little bit of poor form and whatever and tried to play my way through it.  But just wasn't getting the feedback from the golf shots that I was expecting basically.

I suppose it led to a bit of frustration, missing the cut in Qatar by a shot, thinking, this is just not the way I can play golf and do something about it.  I always suspected that the golf ball had been a problem, and I changed the ball to a softer golf ball.  It helps me spin the ball a lot more and control my iron shots a lot better, and it's obviously in turn helping me score.
Q.  What ball are you using now?
RICHARD GREEN:  To the Nike ONE Platinum.  I won't tell you what the old one; put it that way.
Q.  Inaudible?
RICHARD GREEN:  Yeah, differently.  You know, I wanted to get myself back into a position where I could use what I've learned out of last week, put it that way.  I really felt that I should have won that tournament last week, and I probably let a couple sort of little things get in and it cost me winning the tournament.

You know, I'm pleased to be in that similar position that I was in last week and contending to win the tournament.  I'm sure there will be plenty of moments tomorrow where I'll be faced with the same sort of thoughts that went into the head on the 18th tee last week in Dubai.

So, you know, I'll be pleased to sort of know that I learned a lot from that.
Q.  Is it new
RICHARD GREEN:  I had it most of the year last year and I've been going on with it this year as well.  Always been a great supporter of mine and just one of those little things that I've got along the way I think from playing well.  You know, the guys at (ph) sort of help me with the race car and things like that, and it's been a big benefit.
Q.  Any shots today stick out in your mind?
RICHARD GREEN:  Yeah, the 5 iron to 16 was just a beautiful shot.  I felt if anything, the hottest I felt on the golf course there.  I was just really, you know, not struck willing I guess, but I was just sweating and my hands were sweating and everything was damp and wet and it was hard to hold on to the golf club and to hit a 5 iron straight at the flagstick was a pretty impressive shot I thought.  I was pleased with the way I played through holes 10, 11, 12, 13.  I played very steady through those holes, where yesterday I didn't play that great through them.  Just all in all, the round was very solid.
CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:  Richard, thanks for coming in.  Good luck tomorrow.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT