DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 2, 2006
Richard Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
RODDY WILLIAMS:  Richard, thanks very much for coming in; sharing the lead with Retief.  A great start to the week and obviously a course you like since you won here in '97.
RICHARD GREEN:  Yeah, it was nice to go out and shoot a good score and bring back all of those memories of '97.  I played really well in the Pro Am yesterday which kind of gave me a lot of confidence.
RODDY WILLIAMS:  How does it feel coming back to a course where you have won?
RICHARD GREEN:  Oh, it's always pretty special, you know.  I come back here on holiday quite a bit and enjoy the place.  Usually the practice rounds are a pretty good day just to sort of remember what happened.  I had quite a few shots from where I was and the playoffs and remembering I won and I just remember those things and good memories.  Just puts you in the right frame of mind for the week, put it that way.
Q.  Does the course seem a lot easier to you these days?  The scoring looks like it's going to be really low.
RICHARD GREEN:  The greens are not quite as firm as they have been the last couple of years, so you're quite able to control the ball on the greens, which is always a help for the players.  You know, the greens, they are a great surface. They are always    you get the ball on line, it's going to go in.  So you get the guys that are in form, they are going to get on a roll.

It's a little bit easier than last year.  The rough is not as long as last year.  I think it's fair.  You've still got to go out there and create a score.  You have to go out there and make birdies and it's difficult to do that.
Q.  You mentioned bringing back memories of '97, are you doing anything similar to what you did in preparation?
RICHARD GREEN:  Well, it's probably a lot different now.  I didn't have much experience when I won here in '97 and I think my preparation now for me is a lot different than what it was back then.  I can't even remember what the preparation was back then.

My wife caddied for me when I won, and I've got a much more professional and experienced caddie on the bag now and now I've played on the Tour for ten years.  I kind of hope to play like these boys and make it happen rather than get lucky.  That's the way I see it now.
RODDY WILLIAMS:  Richard, thank you very much.  Well-played.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT