ISPS HANDA PERTH INTERNATIONAL
October 24, 2014
Richard Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  RICHARD GREEN:   Haven't played here for a long time.   Last time I played here was the Johnnie Walker tournaments. 
But, you know, I played okay then, but it's nice to have a good start and couple good rounds.   Puts me in a good position for the weekend.

Q.   Probably playing different style to usual, but it's still tough and tricky, isn't?
RICHARD GREEN:   It is.   It's a different style.   It's one you have to learn how to play, sand belt golf courses.   They're very different to how we play in Europe.   The closest thing we come to in Europe is links golf.   Even that's a different ballgame as well. 
But playing into these greens and chipping around these greens and understanding the severity of the slopes and the speed of ball, it's so different to Europe.   It's something that I'm very fortunate that I grew up with.   I really enjoy coming back and playing this sort of golf.

Q.   Presumably it's a little more forgiving this year after the dodgy weather they've had. 
RICHARD GREEN:   Yeah, absolutely.   The greens are softer, which is always nice to be aggressive a little bit from the fairways.   If the greens get firm around here it's another different ballgame again.   You've really got to be very sharp with where you land the golf ball. 
Even still, it's going to be sharp when it's soft, too.   You know, good start.   Good first two rounds so far. 

Q.   What were your thoughts stepping into the tournament given your Race to Dubai position? 
RICHARD GREEN:   Yeah, you know, I've got to have a good result this week to obviously give myself the best chances of playing in China next week. 
Hopefully, you know, looking into at least play Turkey.   I'm still mid‑to‑high 70s I think on the Money List, and I've gonna got to push forward a little bit.
I've come here this week with kind of the expectation to get a result and give myself as good a chance as I can.

Q.   So it was very much in mind; it's not simply playing at home. 
RICHARD GREEN:   No, it's definitely in mind.   I want to be there at the end this year and make the most of those couple tournaments at the end of the year.
Be nice finish of the year on a high and start obviously next year with good confidence.

Q.   Presumably carrying on in this vein couple more 68s or slightly better would do the job. 
RICHARD GREEN:   Yeah, maybe a bit more pressure over the weekend maybe in different circumstances, but just do my best to handle it and see how we go. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT