NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v BLACKHAWKS
June 4, 2013
Tyler Toffoli
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
TYLER TOFFOLI:   I think my whole game has got to get better.   I mean, starting 16 in juniors, I scored goals.   Obviously every year you want to get better and score more goals.   That's what I've been trying to do. 

Q.   Is there a way you can work on it?   Is it ultimately an instinct thing? 
TYLER TOFFOLI:   I think you can work on shooting the puck harder, get a quicker shot.   Those things, I mean, obviously getting quicker skating, getting to the right spot at the right time a lot faster helps. 
Just working on your whole game, you have to be better all the way around. 

Q.   Do you think your speed was effective against them? 
TYLER TOFFOLI:   Yeah, no, they're a fast team.   I just try to work as hard as I can, get to the spots when I could.   I thought I did a pretty good job. 
I had a few chances there, I could have scored early, that could have changed the game.

Q.   Anything you could have done differently on the chance off the glass?
TYLER TOFFOLI:   I could have gotten there a little quicker.   I was late.   I was low on the center.   Obviously, you can't really read the play when it bounces out of the box like that. 

Q.   How has the transition to the NHL been for you? 
TYLER TOFFOLI:   Yeah, no, my first year pro here, coming in, I just try to work hard, get better. 
I knew it was a lockout year, a lot of younger guys were going to be called up to the NHL right after the season were there. 
Just working hard, trying to get my game better.

Q.   Did you need to have a productive season or are you confident that if you would have had a 30‑point season you would have been okay?
TYLER TOFFOLI:   Yeah, I don't think points really matter for this organization.   They just want you to be a real good all‑around player. 
That's what I went in this year to try and be, try and get myself to the right level that they want me to be competing at. 
Obviously they felt comfortable of the way I was playing to give me a chance. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT