COLLEGE WORLD SERIES: BATON ROUGE REGIONAL
June 3, 2017
Ryan Byers
Matt Riser
Mac Sceroler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








LSU - 11, Southeastern Louisiana - 6
THE MODERATOR: Coach, if you could give us a few opening comments, please.
MATT RISER: I thought we battled well.  Also made a huge statement the first couple innings, more juice and people scoring there.  Had some good energy going back and forth, and we knew, if we could get through the first couple innings and get settled in a bit, we had a shot to get things going there late.
We talk about it all the time, you've got to dominate the middle innings.  Today we got dominated in the middle innings.  Five runs there in the fifth and sixth combined, final score 12-6.  There's your five runs and your difference maker tonight.
THE MODERATOR: Also joining us up here is right fielder Ryan Byers.  Ryan, a leadoff home run to start the game and two RBI double squeeze.  Talk about those two at bats, please.
RYAN BYERS: That first at bat I was just looking for a particular drive, trying to set a good tone, especially being the leadoff.  I battled, fought off a pitch, and then I just got a pitch I could drive.  Then the second at bat with the double squeeze, took the first missed curveball and looked at it, and I thought it was going to be (inaudible).  I like the pressure, and I just got the job done.
THE MODERATOR: Also joining us starting pitcher Mac Sceroler.  Talk about your outing, please.
MAC SCEROLER: I knew going into it it was going to be a tough game.  They're a very good ball club.  Coming into it, I needed to execute every pitch I threw.  I missed my spots on some of the pitches.  Can't do that with a good ball club like LSU because they put the ball in play.
Q. Mac, just talk a little bit about the emotion and kind of what happened in that first inning?
MAC SCEROLER: I was trying not to let that get to me.  I thought it kind of sped up on me a little bit and kind of lost my release point there for a little bit.  I thought I settled in a little bit in the second and third innings and so forth.
Q. Mac, did you like that pace of the offense?  Did you feel like your team could hang with that?
MATT RISER: Yeah, no doubt.  We're aggressive, and we're going to set a tone there.  Also, very similar to what we do.  Very athletic.  Strong guys in the middle of the order.  Tonight they just punched more than we did.  They threw some punches early, we threw some punches early.  We countered with it.  We talk about it, if you find ways to throw the last punch, you got a good shot to win it.  LSU threw the last punch tonight.
Q. For Matt and Ryan, a pretty aggressive swing by Lange early in the game.  Can you kind of talk about that a little bit and later on with some of his adjustments.
RYAN BYERS: We knew coming in he had a good curveball, and we had to hit the fastball.  Earlier, we hit the fastball, and we just couldn't keep up with him.  We couldn't hit the curveball late, and he just kind of got to us.
MATT RISER: We set up a game plan, and I think the unique thing about it -- and this is why I like coaching this club.  Mac didn't have a strong start and struggled a little bit there, but they're teammates, and they're in this together.  So they dug in a little bit to help their teammate out and get themselves back in the ball game.  That's why we had some really good at bats early.
Also, he got settled in there in the fourth, fifth, and sixth, and started getting really strong, started located some pitches and working ahead.  When he does that, he stops making mistakes.  I thought we did a good job of taking those mistakes early when he did give them to us and taking advantage of those runs, which you need against a guy like Lange.
Q. In order to get the hardware now, do you feel like your team is prepared to handle that adversity will help you the next couple days?
MATT RISER: Yeah, we talked about in order to win this thing, it's going to come down to winning a doubleheader tomorrow.  Can't worry about the second one, we've got to worry about the first one.  Again, we talked about it.  At some point in the year, you'll be playing for your life.  We put ourselves in that position now.
Still doesn't change our attitude or mentality in this thing.  We're still in this thing to win it, but that's going to be taking care of business from here on out.  There's no slip up.  You slip up, you slip out.  We've got to do a good job of taking care of business tomorrow with Rice.
Kept my post-game speech short and quick.  Just told the guys to stay aggressive.  Don't let this slow you down.  Don't let this be a speed bump for you.  It just motivates you and keep you going and get ready for 3:00 tomorrow.
Q. Coach, talk about pitching plans for tomorrow.
MATT RISER: We'll start right-hander Carlisle Koestler tomorrow, our normal Sunday starter.  Post-game speech, besides Mac, I told everybody to be ready to go.  When you get to this point in time of the year, whoever and everybody's available off the bench, whether we need an in and out, a pinch runner or pinch hitter, everybody is ready to go.  You're fighting for your life.  We'll start with Carlisle Koestler, and go from there.
Q. Ryan, if you would, just kind of talk about you didn't have the outcome, but you were right there toe to toe with them for so long.  Do you feel confident about moving forward tomorrow as well?
RYAN BYERS: Yes, I feel confident about it.  Just like Coach said, we've just got to take care of the first one.  That's the only way we can go on from there.  Just keep playing fast, just keep doing what we're doing, and we feel like we'll be able to take care of them tomorrow at 3:00.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT