SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 4, 2010
Wendell Hudson
Ericka Russell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 THE MODERATOR: We have Alabama head Coach Hudson. Coach, if you could make a comment about tonight's game. 
 COACH HUDSON: Well, I think both teams played awful hard. I thought we were prepared. Couple things could have went our way. We could have been playing tomorrow night. But Georgia did the things they needed to do at the end of the game to win the basketball game. 
 I thought it was a hard-fought game. Both teams played hard. I thought that our team made a step in the right direction in the last two years coming to this tournament last year; coming into it this year was a different flavor for us. We came in here with the idea we wanted to play. We thought we could play and be playing on beyond the first game, and we gave that type of effort.
 I thought it was a -- should have been a good basketball game, from what everybody is telling me. 

 Q. Can you talk about the adjustments from your previous two meetings leading into this game? 
 COACH HUDSON: The first meeting we had with Georgia, we actually led them at halftime. We thought we had a chance to beat them over at our place. We went to their place, they played awful well. We didn't have a chance to beat them after the first 15 minutes in the basketball game. 
 I thought the adjustments we made, what we tried to do tonight, was make sure we attack Georgia instead of sitting back and letting them attack us. I thought our team did a really good job of going after Georgia and committing to playing hard and attacking the basket, doing those type of things. 
 THE MODERATOR: Ladies, could you make comments on tonight's game. 
 ERICKA RUSSELL: I thought we played awful hard. We played as a team. We did. That's what coach wanted us to do. Just hate we came out with a tough loss. 
 DEDREA MAGEE: I feel the same way. I mean, we fought hard from the beginning. We made a few turnovers. That kind of hurt us a little bit. I mean, we kept up the intensity. We just suffered with a loss tonight. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT