U.S. MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 25, 2018
Matt Mattare
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So this is another one where you had to show some mental resolve because you were down early.  
MATT MATTARE: Yeah, I mean, we both played really well.  This was a really well-played match tee to green.   
I think between the two of us we both missed 16 fairway.  I don't know if either of us missed a fairway the rest of the day.  We were both hitting it great.   
I had a couple bogeys early.  I really hit one bad shot, but the other two were kind of bad breaks.  I was in a divot on one and another one where it just kind of skipped over the green where I thought I had a good shot.   
But coming down the stretch, as it usually does, it came down to putting.  He made a great putt on 11 to stay square; I had made a big putt on 13 to stay square.   
15, 16 I made a pair of 18-footers that ended up being the difference.   
 Q.  What did you hit into 15?  
MATT MATTARE: 15 I laid back.  Hit a 5-iron off the tee; laid back to 100 yards and hit a lob wedge to I think it was like 18 feet.   
 Q.  The birdie at 7, did that get you going or was there something else?  
MATT MATTARE: That was huge.  I mean, I was in the left rough and it was a really -- where that pin was you really had to -- I couldn't go anywhere near it.  I had to kind of play it up and hump have it swing right to left and I judged it really well and then hit a great putt like just 12 feet like just dead in the heart.   
 Q.  And then obviously it's a little later now.  Got some time to relax.  Will that help you as you get ready for the 2:30 match?  
MATT MATTARE: Yeah, going to get something to eat real quick and get some fluids and just get ready to go.  You kind of stay in the same mindset.  Rather not wait around very long.  You're locked in and focused.   
I'm not going to have a harder match than this morning.  He played awesome.  He played really well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT