MLB WORLD SERIES: GIANTS v ROYALS
October 28, 2014
Tim Hudson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  San Francisco Giants - 0
Kansas City Royals - 10

Q.   Is this the biggest game of your career?   What are your emotions like right now on the eve of this big stage that you're going to take? 
TIM HUDSON:   Well, I'm excited about it.   I'm excited about the opportunity to get out there and hopefully win this World Series for our club.   I'm prepared this week, like I always have, for any start.   Obviously, I wish we would have won tonight, but I'm ready to go.   I'm excited.

Q.   Jake Peavy stood tall in the clubhouse after a tough outing today, but he did say he came back to the clubhouse and spent time with you.   Can you talk about, I guess you were watching video, going over the lineup.   Can you talk about that a little bit. 
TIM HUDSON:   We just went over some pitches that he made to some of the guys, some things.   I thought he threw the ball pretty well.   They had some pretty good at‑bats, and they had a pretty good game plan, that's all.   I feel pretty good about what I'm going to be doing, and my game plan that I'm going to be taking into the game tomorrow. 
It's just going out there and executing my game, my pitches and doing what I always do.

Q.   You obviously want to go as deep into the game as possible as a starter.   But how comforting is it that you've got all those guys in the bullpen behind you to pick things up? 
TIM HUDSON:   Yeah, obviously I'm going to go as deep as I can.   I feel like hopefully I can get a quality six, seven innings out there, and turn it over to some of those guys in the pen.   Our pen has been great for us all year.   We've got a full, all hands on deck tomorrow, depending on whatever situation we need to bring them in.   I'm excited about my opportunity to go out there and give us a good chance to win, but we know we have some guys out there that can come in and get us out of situations, if we get in it.

Q.   Talk about what it means to start in a Game 7 of a World Series, and what kind of a personal excitement level there is for you with that. 
TIM HUDSON:   Well, it's important.   I mean, it's exciting.   When you're a little kid in the backyard, you always think of World Series games and hitting home runs to win a Game 7 of the World Series or pitching in a big game, a Game 7 of the World Series.   So I'm no different than anybody else.   It's something that as a kid growing up you think about it, as a Big League player you think about it, and you often wonder if you're ever going to have the opportunity to do it. 
16 years in the Big Leagues, I finally have that chance.   I mean, I'm really, really excited about it.   I can't wait.   I can't wait to get out there tomorrow and have some fun.

Q.   Just the idea, you seem to welcome this opportunity.   I guess there are two ways to approach it ‑ a bit of apprehension or a bit of welcoming, you seem to be welcoming this. 
TIM HUDSON:   Well, you should.   This is why you play the game.   This is why you compete.   This is why you work so hard throughout your career to get to hopefully have this opportunity.   I'm going to have some fun.   I've waited a long time for this. 
I feel very calm about the task at hand, but I know it's going to be challenging.   There is no question about it.   They have a really good ballclub over there, and I'm looking forward to it.   No question about it.

Q.   In Game 3 you looked like you were keeping the ball down pretty well.   How did you feel that day?   Did you throw a bullpen in between? 
TIM HUDSON:   I felt pretty good that day.   I wasn't quite as sharp as I wanted to be, but I was able to battle through some innings and pitch out of some jams in that first inning and get into a little bit of a groove in the middle innings. 
You know, this time in between that game and now is my normal workdays.   I've gone and threw a bullpen and did my throwing on the sides.   Just trying to clean up some things mechanically a little bit, just how everybody works on things throughout the year.   I feel good about it.

Q.   You had that Achilles thing.   That's a tough thing to come back from, especially when you're not 25.   How surprised or how lucky do you feel that you're even in this situation? 
TIM HUDSON:   Yeah, it's unbelievable how things happen.   Last year this time I was walking around Auburn, Alabama in a walking boot wondering where is my career going to be heading.   It's amazing.   God works in crazy ways.   I managed to get healthy and sign with the San Francisco Giants, with hopefully the opportunity to play on this stage.   Very rarely do things work out the way that you hope that they will in this game.   You know, I signed with a team that I thought would have a pretty good chance to get here, and 7, 8 months later here we are.   It's really crazy how things are.   Not only are we here, but I'm pitching Game 7 of the World Series.   So it's really cool.

Q.   Peavy was saying that after he came out of the game that you and he looked at some video together.   Maybe therapy for him a little bit, just going over stuff.   But is there anything that you think that you gleaned just by talking to him that might help you tomorrow?   Did you talk at all about tomorrow's game? 
TIM HUDSON:   Well, I mean, watching video after games is something that's not too uncommon.   Anytime I come out of games or he comes out of games or Bum, whoever, there would be times we'd go look at at‑bats or look at things. 
Nothing in particular.   We looked at some of the pitches that we thought were pretty good pitches that they hit, and just their overall approach with things.   That's about it.   Nothing really as far as how I should go about my game plan for tomorrow.   We have two totally different styles of pitching.   We're both right‑handers, but it's one of those things where we pitch a little differently than we did early on in our careers. 
I feel really good about the game plan that we're coming up with.   I felt pretty good about the game plan in my first start against these guys, but like I said, I wasn't quite as sharp as I wanted to be that first time out.   Hopefully tomorrow it will be a little different.

Q.   Apparently there are a lot of managers on Twitter wondering if Bum could come back for Game 7.   Bruce was asked about that, and he said, "This is about Tim.   He's our starter."   Could you just talk about that confidence he has in you, and just I guess expectations are not surprising.   People might wonder if Bumgarner is pitching. 
TIM HUDSON:   That's Bochy.   Bochy is a guy that his players, we fight like heck for him every time we take the field.   We know he has all the confidence in the world in us.   He makes us feel like we're a lot better than we are a lot of times, and that's what good managers do.   I feel great that he has that confidence in me. 
Getting back to Bum, I mean, Bum's a stud.   He's an absolute animal.   I'm sure he'll be in the game at some point tomorrow.   Hopefully it's late in the game.   Hopefully I go out and get us deep in the game.   I know he wants the ball.   He wanted the ball yesterday.   He wants the ball‑‑ he always wants the ball, and that's what you want out of your stud pitchers.   This time of the year, Game 7 of the World Series, there is not a game after tomorrow, so we'll have all hands on deck. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT