PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 15, 2010
Jose Filipe Lima
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOSE FILIPE LIMA: It was fantastic, probably the same about yesterday, about the long game. I don't miss any putts and holed two good ones, and that's more confidence on the putts. I'm quite happy about my game, because yesterday, I said if I stay with the same game today, maybe I can do something, and the game was there. My driving was there, that's why I'm quite happy about that.

 Q. And a nice time to make eagle at 17?
 JOSE FILIPE LIMA: It was fantastic, a good putt and for the Portuguese crowd was fantastic. Try to continue like this and we are going to see. 
 I was thinking how I hole all my putts on this day, because of yesterday, but today my putting came back. 

 Q. Something you've worked on? 
 JOSE FILIPE LIMA: Yeah, all the time. With Sean, my physical trainer, we try to do exactly the same and just keep working on that. And today was good. And we are going to see tomorrow. 

 Q. I know we have had the conversation here before, about the weight of expectation and hence the pressures on you, but you seem very relaxed this time. 
 JOSE FILIPE LIMA: Yeah, it was quite difficult this morning. I was feeling too much power, me, and the adrenaline, and was feeling a little -- not very good. But I started well and that's helped to continue good. But I was more relaxed yesterday than today and a good round tomorrow, we are going to see if I'm quite stressed.

 Q. You always want to play well regardless of where you are, but I take it here you want to do that little bit extra better?
 JOSE FILIPE LIMA: Oh, yeah, more in my country, it's fantastic, and to do something here, it's many things, many things good for my card, good for the country, good for everything.

 Q. And your card is on your mind? 
 JOSE FILIPE LIMA: Oh, yeah. We see, two more days, there's a long way. 

 Q. Still a long way to go to the end of the season?
 JOSE FILIPE LIMA: Exactly. Try to do my best. If nothing happens, I'll go to Q School and do my best over there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT