BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 23, 2007
Jose Filipe Lima
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   KLAUS WAESCHLE:  Well, congratulations, José-Filipe Lima, second time here for a press conference, media conference, a 70 today.  I think to play under par at least was successful today already. 
 JOSÉ-FILIPE LIMA:  Yes, yes, a score under par was good today.  I finished not very good but I'm very happy still for my round.  I think one or two shots would be better for me, but now I play tomorrow a good round and we'll see. 

 Q.  Was the wind blowing hard? 
 JOSÉ-FILIPE LIMA:  Yes, it was very strong and it was coming on the side.  It was not a straight wind.  And all of the shots on the side, you never know if the wind helped or not.  That's why the choice of the club was very, very difficult today. 
 But me and my caddie don't do really big mistakes like that, so that is why the score is good. 

 Q.  Early in the year you were not doing well and now suddenly you're playing good for the whole tournament; what is the difference? 
 JOSÉ-FILIPE LIMA:  No, because I changed my swing and my grip at the beginning of the year and I do a lot of work for my back, my muscles and my swing changed.  I was doing very well this week before, but it did not show in the score because my putting was not very good; but my game was very, very strong. 
 This week my putting is good, my game is good and I had a good game plan.  That is why the score is good. 
 Of course, like everybody, but I have to play and to stay focused on my game. 

 Q.  The leaders are very close together; so what will be the tactics for tomorrow? 
 JOSÉ-FILIPE LIMA:  I don't know about tactics.  I'll just play my game tomorrow and if I'm lucky I win. 

 Q.  For those of us who don't know you so well, this France/Portugal thing, do you feel more French or Portuguese? 
 JOSÉ-FILIPE LIMA:  This is a good question.  I know this very well.  I am both, really, because I am born in France.  All of my friends live in France and I have been in France my whole life.  But all of my family live in Portugal.  That's why I don't really feel more Portuguese or French.  I am both I think really. 
 Also, my friends on the Tour are French.  I speak French with everybody, with my father also.  But I like my country, my family's country is Portugal, that's why I think I am both. 

 Q.  Do you have two passports? 
 JOSÉ-FILIPE LIMA:  Yes, I have two passports. 

 Q.  So you learned golf in the French system? 
 JOSÉ-FILIPE LIMA:  Yes, because my father was working on the golf course in France, St. Nom la Breteche, the Trophée Lancôme place.  Yeah, I learned that with my father and after with my coach, just, yeah, I never played really in Portugal.  Just for the tournaments.  I just played in the driving range and working on the driving range, yes. 
 KLAUS WAESCHLE:  Thank you very much and good luck tomorrow. 
 JOSÉ-FILIPE LIMA:  Thank you very much. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT