BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 21, 2007
Jose Filipe Lima
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   KLAUS WAESCHLE:  José-Filipe Lima, congratulations, I beautiful round, a 65 here. 
 JOSÉ-FILIPE LIMA:  Thank you. 
 KLAUS WAESCHLE:  I'm sure you're going to tell us a little bit about your strokes today. 
 JOSÉ-FILIPE LIMA:  All of my strokes?  (Laughing) 
KLAUS WAESCHLE:  Not all.  How about the round? 
 JOSÉ-FILIPE LIMA:  I started very bad with a very bad drive on the first and I think that relaxed me a lot because I was a little stressed, I don't know why.  The putt on 18 was two metres and on 6 it's around four metres, and my game was quite good today. 
 My good driving, I hit all of the fairways.  That's very important on this course this year because the rough was very big, and if you miss a lot, it's impossible to find a good roll.  My game was good with that today.  My iron game was good, also.  I missed a lot of birdies on the back nine but I did make some. 
 I'm very happy with this round because the beginning of my year was very definitely.  I changed some things on my swing and I started very bad, missed a lot of cuts and to do a good round today is very good for me, for my confidence. 

 Q.  You say you missed birdie putts on the back nine.  How many and from how far? 
 JOSÉ-FILIPE LIMA:  Oh, on the back nine, on the 12th, it was three metres; and 13 like eight metres; 14, three meters; 15, three metres; 16, four metres; and 17, four metres.  All missed. 

 Q.  The last hole with the eagle is what separated you; can you tell us what happened there? 
 JOSÉ-FILIPE LIMA:  The drive, a good one, I didn't have a very good line and my caddie is thinking, to make 5, play the hole with a 6 and I hit the perfect shot, had just a straight putt uphill. 

 Q.  When play stopped, what was the first shot? 
 JOSÉ-FILIPE LIMA:  It was just like a small putt like that on the 16th.  It's not easy, if you have a difficult shot -- like I holed this putt before the stop, and I was to play the 17th hole, it's not the same because a difficult shot like this hole, I'm happy to wait for this putt and to restart with a small putt just to put a good rhythm and everything. 

 Q.  After winning SAINT-OMER, what went wrong and not starting off the season well? 
 JOSÉ-FILIPE LIMA:  Well, I tried to change something and change also my body, my muscles in my back, and now I feel better with my back.  My swing was some days was okay, some days not okay.  But to shoot three last week was better and better, I'm feeling well.  Just working more on my putting and today was --  everything was good.  My game was like I was thinking and my putting, also.  But it's true, my season was not easy at the moment.  But I feel it's coming better. 

 Q.  How do you feel when you look at the leaderboard and see your name first and Ernie Els behind you? 
 JOSÉ-FILIPE LIMA:  I feel good, of course, a very good round.  You know, it's four rounds, and it's a long way to go to lead for Sunday.  I try to keep like that and we will see Sunday night if I speak with you Sunday if I play well.  With my game it is possible, really. 

 Q.  Does that affect your tactics now for the next day when you see that you're on the lead and you didn't don't have to fight for the cut and you just have to fight to stay on top? 
 JOSÉ-FILIPE LIMA:  Not really.  I think my plan game will stay the same really.  I have a good plan game really, a lot of 3-wood, a lot of 5-woods and I think it's not very good to change my plan game because I played 7-under today.  If I play 7-under with that game, I have to play it game every day and if I make four times 7-under, I think it's good to win. 
 That's why if I feel well, I continue with it and do the maximum. 
 KLAUS WAESCHLE:  Thank you very much, gentlemen. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT