BIG 12 CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 7, 2012
Ashleigh Fontenette
Ashley Gayle
Gail Goestenkors
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Texas Tech 81
  Texas 58

THE MODERATOR:   We're now joined by the Texas Longhorns.   We'll get started here.   Coach, your opening comments and your thoughts about tonight's game. 
GAIL GOESTENKORS:   Just really disappointed with our play.   I give a lot of credit to Texas Tech.   They played with a tremendous focus and sense of urgency, really that we've been playing with the last three games in particular.   I thought we saw that against them.   Unfortunately tonight, we didn't see it. 
So just overall very, very disappointed. 
THE MODERATOR:   We'll now take questions for our student‑athletes and for Coach.   We'll start on the right. 

Q.   Gail, have you ever experienced or watched the first half like that one? 
GAIL GOESTENKORS:   Not that I recall.

Q.   The shots and turnovers. 
GAIL GOESTENKORS:   I don't recall seeing a half quite like that.   We've had some disappointing halves before, where we haven't shot the ball well or where we've turned it over too much or where we've fouled too much.   Unfortunately, in this game we saw all three of those things at the same time.

Q.   Looked like it came down to Yvonne and Chassidy not having their usual games coming after maybe their best game for the Longhorns.   Any explanation there? 
GAIL GOESTENKORS:   We talked after the game.   She said I can't explain what happened out there.   I thought, A.G., she played one of her best games of the year.   I thought A.G.   played like a warrior, especially in the second half. 
Yvonne wasn't herself tonight.   She was coming off such a great game, maybe her best game against A&M. 
Chas has been overall really consistent for us.   So to have both of them off on the same night. 
And then Chelsea Bass has been very consistent for us off the bench.   I think she was 1 for 8.   To have three guards not play well, that's not healthy for us scoring‑wise. 
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for student‑athletes.

Q.   Ashleigh, I was wondering if you had any explanation now that the regular season is over or just relaxed now that the season is over. 
ASHLEIGH FONTENETTE:   I'm not sure what happened.   I think we came out, and we were just a step late on everything.   I'm not sure what happened.   I think we were very focused before the game.   There's no excuse for the way we played out there tonight. 
THE MODERATOR:   Before we go any further, that was Ashleigh Fontenette because we're doing this by telephone.

Q.   What did you say at halftime?   You're obviously a leader.   What did you try to do? 
GAIL GOESTENKORS:   I said we've got to let that go.   The first half's over.   We can't do anything about it.   We've just got to focus on the second half and play with the same focus, intensity, desire that we've been playing with in previous games.   Just try to put that behind us.   Thought we just needed to relax a little bit.   We seemed tight. 
I thought we came out.   We made a little bit of a run.   Tech played well.   I want to give them credit as well.   They played with that sense of urgency.   And when we cut it, they got to the basket and got to the free‑throw line.

Q.   Gail, did they do something differently on Chassidy that they hadn't done or other teams hadn't done as far as defense? 
GAIL GOESTENKORS:   They trapped her with the ball screen.   They ran a little one‑three with the chaser part of the time, but we did that as well.   We've had other teams do that too.   We've always handled it pretty well.   Tonight we didn't.

Q.   Gail, as far as the timing of the loss, it could be a whole lot worse.   Are you afraid of what message that sends to the selection committee? 
GAIL GOESTENKORS:   Yeah, I'm just hopeful they don't base our body of work on this one game.   The fact that we were able to beat A&M twice shows a consistently excellent team, and the way we beat OU as well. 
We finished strong.   This was a tough way to lose, but I'm hoping they consider our body of work, and that includes all of our preconference games where we beat people that are either in the tournament or on the bubble as well.

Q.   Ashleigh, it looked like in the second half you really put the team on your back.   You were doing everything you could to take the game over.   No one else around you was really able to step up for you guys.   How tough was that for you? 
ASHLEIGH FONTENETTE:   I think we couldn't find a way to put it all together.   We were playing great defense.   We just couldn't get rebounds.   But I think overall we kind of came together, just couldn't quite get over the hump when we cut the lead to 12. 
I give my team credit.   We kept fighting till the end of the game.

Q.   Ashleigh Fontenette, when you fall behind like that, everybody's missing, you get to the point where people start maybe forcing things, trying to catch up fast. 
ASHLEIGH FONTENETTE:   I definitely think everybody was just‑‑ we had a sense of urgency, but we kind of forced some shots that we didn't really need to take.   But I mean, everybody had the right thing in mind.   Everybody was just trying to help.   Nothing was falling for us tonight. 
THE MODERATOR:   Anything else for our student‑athletes?

Q.   Ashley, for the seniors, was this a scary kind of game, kind of being made a bubble team to have that kind of performance?   Maybe thinking that could be the last game you played? 
ASHLEY GAYLE:   I think this is a rough way to go out in the Big 12.   We didn't expect this at all.   Coming off a big win against A&M.   This is not what we planned.   It's really rough for us to go through this. 
I can't be mad at my team.   They played hard this whole season.   We just happened to play our worst on the wrong night. 
THE MODERATOR:   Anything else?   Ladies, thank you very much.   Thanks for a great run this season.   Best of luck in the NCAA. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT