NCAA WOMEN'S FINAL FOUR
March 29, 2002
Alana Beard
Krista Gingrich
Gail Goestenkors
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








COACH GAIL GOESTENKORS:  I just give Oklahoma all the credit in the world.  I thought they played an excellent game.  They played the same way I've been watching them play on tape for the last week, and that they do a great job sharing the basketball.  They played like a veteran team.  Their seniors really made big plays, key plays.  And I just thought they played a fantastic game.  They're an excellent team.  Obviously things didn't go our way.  I give Oklahoma a lot of credit for that.  I thought they played excellent defense.   At the same time I think our youth really showed at times.  But I'm very, very proud of this team, because they worked so hard and played with great heart and showed great character.  We held together, we stuck together to the bitter end, and we always played hard.  So this will be very valuable for us in the future and I'm sure we will learn a great deal from this game and from this experience. 
 

Q.  Alana, talk about their defense in the first half, and what they were doing that attributed to the team's poor shooting? 

ALANA BEARD:  I don't think they did anything special defensively, it was on us.  Offensively we didn't execute like we needed to.  We missed easy  lay-ups.  It was a lot of little things that we did wrong and turnovers.  Our turnovers led to easy baskets for them, but I don't think they did anything special defensively.  It wasn't like anything we've seen before.
 

Q.  Caufield, what was she doing?  She apparently was coming out on you.  How close was she?  How effective was she staying close to you for most of the first half? 

ALANA BEARD:  I don't know.  What do you mean? 
 

Q.  That's what they were talking about, their defense effectiveness was on what details did against Currie and what she did against you.  You didn't get as many touches on the ball as you usually did, and you went a long time without getting any points. 

ALANA BEARD:  It's not like I was looking for more points.  It's not anything they did.  I give credit to Oklahoma, their defense was great, but I needed to get my teammates involved.  It's not all about me, it's about the team.
 

Q.  Krista, your thoughts, please, on having the opportunity to play in two Final Fours and seeing the growth in this program over the last four years. 

KRISTA GINGRICH:  Amazing growth.  I believed Coach Goestenkors, when she was recruiting me, that we could have this opportunity.  And to have two Final Fours in four years is an amazing accomplishment.  Two games short, though.  But I guess more importantly it's about the road to get here and the journey as you go.  On the road that we've had ups and downs throughout the country and good times and bad.  And I don't regret one turn on that road.  So I'm just very blessed to have the opportunity to play at Duke. 
 

Q.  Krista, if you would, talk about your run in the second half, what was working for you then, that didn't work in the first half, and also about the three pointer by Caton Hill right after you all closed within two?

KRISTA GINGRICH:  I think when we made our run, we stepped up defensively and started getting stops.  They were scoring basically at will at the beginning of the second half.  So we knew we had to get stops in order to make our runs.  We started getting stops and then we just executed a lot better offensively.  We started running some screens for Iciss down low, to get on the block, and then some plays for Alana to post up, as well.  But Hill put the dagger in us, I think, with that three.  We didn't match up properly out of the break, and she nailed it.  I think that was a big momentum swing for them. 
 

Q.  Alana, after you guys cut it to two, you went about three and a half minutes before you got the next field goal to lay up off the glass.  What did they do or what happened with your shots to have you go that long without getting any points? 

ALANA BEARD:  I think when we made our run we started to execute.  We started to run through everything and get easy buckets.  But after we cut it to two and they came down and hit a three, I don't know, we couldn't get the defensive stops.  And we didn't execute as well during that time.
 

Q.  The coach for Oklahoma thought their team played so well because they played so well, they played as a team.  I was wondering if you would comment on how you thought that the Duke team played or how you assessed the situation.

COACH GAIL GOESTENKORS:  I think Oklahoma did play very well together.  You can tell they have four seniors on the floor most times and that they've played together forever.  And it shows.  I think our team plays very well together, as well, but we're relying on freshmen and sophomores for the most part.  And you saw that, I think.  We didn't make some of the smartest decisions that we've ever made and I think a lot of that had to do with just the experience.  Like I said, I know we will learn and grow from this.  But I think the bottom -- they're not more together than we are.  No team in the country is any closer than our team, I will promise you that.  However, their senior leadership really did show and the fact that they've played together for so long.  Wynter and Currie -- Wynter played well, but some of the turnovers those two had and some of the decisions they made were freshmen mistakes.  And I'm proud of them for playing hard, but it's an experience I think they had to go through so that next year they'll be a little bit more comfortable on the situation. 
 

Q.  Gail, it seems like you guys spent so much energy cutting the lead to two, and then they went boom.  Did you guys run out of steam a little bit? 

COACH GAIL GOESTENKORS:  I think we did, and they had players make big plays, and hit big shots like that, it seems like time and again I watched that happen.  And that was, it was like a dagger for us to cut it to two and then have Caton hit that shot.  You could just feel the momentum, because it took so much energy to get there and unfortunately then I think that was our big push, that was our big run, and they countered, which great teams do.  They sustain runs, and they make a run of their own. 
 

Q.  Gail, what did you think was effective about their defense in the first half, because Coale was talking about while she played Dales on Currie and Caufield was on Alana.  To me Caufield deserves more credit for what she did in the first half.  And Currie didn't get to the basket like she usually did?

COACH GAIL GOESTENKORS:  Dales did what every team has done in the past month, is play off Monique, and make her hit the outside shot, and she did a good job at it.  Caufield did a good job trying to limit Alana's touches.  So they played the personnel.  And I thought they did a good job with that.  And that's what every team we faced has really tried to do.  But I don't think Monique didn't really adjust to that the way she has in games in the past and she became a little bit frustrated and just didn't have one of her best games.
 

Q.  Can you talk about Oklahoma's offense in terms of their passing?  Are they one of the best passing teams you've seen in?

COACH GAIL GOESTENKORS:  Most definitely.  And like I said, they play so well together, and they're one of the teams, I think Connecticut is another team, where they make the extra pass.  So when you think you've got them stopped you really don't, because they'll make that one more pass that leads to a wide open shot; instead of getting a good shot, they get a great shot. 
 

Q.  Coach, Alana Beard left the game fouling out, which is uncharacteristic for her.  When she came off the court, she was obviously visibly upset.  What did you say to her when you pulled her aside and hugged her and said several words to her? 

COACH GAIL GOESTENKORS:  I just said, you know, you played your heart out, that's all I would ever ask from you.  And we'll learn from this, we'll grow and we'll be back. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT