ROSE BOWL GAME: IOWA VS STANFORD
December 27, 2015
C.J. Beathard
Matt VandeBerg
Jordan Walsh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








An Interview With:
C.J. BEATHARD
MATT VANDEBERG
JORDAN WALSH
Q. C.J., your coaches are talking about how you can get the ball out, how you see things quicker.  How has that evolved in the last couple years or have you always been able to see things naturally with your command of the line of scrimmage?
C.J. BEATHARD: I think the longer you're within this offense, the better that gets.  I remember when I got here as a true freshman, even my second year, it's tough to see things that fast.  But the more reps you get in practice, and especially game reps, obviously this season is my first year starting and actually seeing a lot of game reps, stuff comes quicker.  It only improves.
I think this is my fourth year in the system, and this is my best year processing things as a quarterback and seeing things presnap.  I think that continues to improve each season.
Q. C.J., you talk about your relationship with Greg Davis and his personality and what it's like to work with for you?
C.J. BEATHARD: Yeah, Coach is a great guy.  He's been a lot of places.  He's been in college football for a long time and he knows what he's doing.  He's a family guy.  He's like a dad to me and like a grandpa to me, and all the quarterbacks as well.  We love him.
He's fun to be out there with on the field and the practice field and he knows what he's doing.  He's a great teacher of the game as well.  He's taught me more than I can even say about football and how to grasp things as a quarterback.  He taught me a lot.  I appreciate him for that.  He's just been a great coach ever since I've been here.  He's embraced me as a player and made me better as a player.
Q. For the wideouts, how would you describe the system you guys are in?  Because it seems you've got some freedoms or you've got to really understand leverages and coverages and where guys are being placed.  Then specifically, when you look to this defense that you're seeing in the back end, what have you guys recognized?
MATT VANDEBERG: Yeah, B.K., or Coach Kennedy, our receivers coach, always preaches we have to see the defense and know what's going on.  Whether they're rotating or what kind of coverage they're based in before the snap and being able to read on the fly.  That's something that he really preaches to us.
Again, Stanford, they have a lot of athletes out there that can move in space.  They do a good job disguising some coverages.  So it's going to be a lot of us being able to read on the fly, and we've been able to practice that so far this week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT