NBA DRAFT
June 21, 2018
Jerome Robinson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JEROME ROBINSON: Going to the Clippers, a dream come true.  It's exciting, being in L.A., being with the Clips and being able to learn from a guy like Doc (Rivers) and Jerry (West) I think is huge.
Q. How were you able to escape North Carolina and get up to New England?  That takes courage.
JEROME ROBINSON: Yeah, I was never really recruited by those guys.  I mean, it's tough growing up in that area being a fan --
Q. Even NC State?
JEROME ROBINSON: Yeah, being a fan of the Triangle, it was tough.  I just kind of stuck with it, kept believing and kept working.  BC gave me my opportunity, and I ran with it.
Q. Are you going to invest in real estate in Raleigh?
JEROME ROBINSON: Yeah, they've got some things going in Raleigh, so we'll see.
Q. I saw that you worked out with Russell Westbrook last summer.  Do you plan on working out with him again, and what did you learn from working out with him?
JEROME ROBINSON: Yeah, we had the same trainer, so our workouts kind of overlapped.  Getting to watch him and learn from him and ask him questions and stuff like that was huge.  I mean, like not physically working out with him and stuff like that, but same idea, same kind of things.  Just kind of soaking it in and being a sponge from a guy like that, an MVP, that's not something you get to see and talk to every day.
Q. What's the most valuable thing you learned from him?
JEROME ROBINSON: Just kind of find your game and being great at it.  That was something we kind of talked about.  Just different things that he saw being in the NBA and his transition and things that kind of everybody goes through.  He was giving me a heads up so I see them coming before I get blindsided with certain things.
Q. How does it feel to be the first lottery pick in Boston College history?
JEROME ROBINSON: It's exciting, man.  I just really worked and believed in it.  I'm really at a loss for words.  It's awesome.
Q. You were an under-the-radar guy even during the college season.  When did you realize that it was possible that you would be a first-round pick, and pretty high at that?
JEROME ROBINSON: Yeah, I would say once the year was wrapping up with Coach talking to me and different things like that.  Then I had my end-of-year meeting with Coach, and he was like, not really kicking me out the door, but he's like, "You had a great year, and you're definitely going to be a first-round pick."






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT