ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE OPERATION BASKETBALL
October 25, 2017
Ky Bowman
Jerome Robinson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What you can say about maybe some positives you're taking away from last season, some of the things to build upon.  Are there some of those areas you can look back to to help you move forward?  
KY BOWMAN: The things that I've been working on this year, just going into my sophomore year, is understanding the leadership role is going to be a big point for me, and also knowing like that defense is where we needed to improve last year, just from the losses that we had in the stretches of games.  It's like communication on defense is what we really need to improve on.   
 Q.  Ky, as a freshman, you seem to be such the go-to guy.  Did you feel pressure that the scoring at times was on you?  
KY BOWMAN: At times I determined what the situation was.  I felt like I didn't have to like rely on myself but also rely on different open players to see.   
 Q.  Making the All-ACC freshman team and averaging 14 points a game, what are the next steps that you need to take to elevate your game going into your sophomore season?  
KY BOWMAN: The next steps for me, just seeing different plays off the ball screens, understanding different aspects of the game, and also bringing up a bigger leadership role just for me and my team this season.   
 Q.  What have you taken away from your head coach at this point in your career?  
KY BOWMAN: Right now he's always on top of me about eating right and being a leader on and off the court.  So for me, like always trying to like stay outside of the sugars and being able to talk to my teammates off the court and on the court because I know these relationships are going to last forever.   
 Q.  What are some things that in your relationship with John Wall that he's given you to help elevate your game, make you a better player?  
KY BOWMAN: Him telling him that I need to really work on my change of pace, just not going all out every single play, just really like slow it down, then speeding back up was like one of the main things that he actually got on me about, like just change of pace is going to be a major key to my game.   
 Q.  You worked out with Russell Westbrook a couple times this summer.  What did you learn from working out with him?  
KY BOWMAN: What I learned from him, just not letting other things like set me back, just from -- at first beginning of the season, some of my difficulties at home set me back.  But talking to him, just letting my game keep playing, not worrying about other things outside the court.   
 Q.  How was your first winter up in the northeast?  
KY BOWMAN: My first winter, it was bad after the Syracuse game, that night when we got there and it was 9 degrees, and all I had was a sweatshirt and some sweatpants.  Had to survive to walk the walk on campus, so that was the worst.   
 Q.  Coming off of an injury at the end of last season, how are you doing going into your sophomore season again?  
KY BOWMAN: I feel better than I was before, like just knowing that my leg was -- actually when it first happened, I was like scared that it was like MCL or ACL, but just knowing that it wasn't, just knowing that I'm back and better is a good thing for me.   
 Q.  Knowing that your teammate Jerome is also from North Carolina, did it help you in your transition from high school to college knowing that you had another born and bred tar heel on the team with you?  
KY BOWMAN: He actually made a big impact on me as far as like being here, just knowing that I'm not the only one playing with a chip on my shoulder just to show others that we belong in the ACC, but also playing for our family and just having that determination to play for the ACC.   
 Q.  Jerome, same that I asked your teammate, just what you've taken away from your time at Boston College and building upon what you've been able to do.  I know there's been some adversity, obviously, but what you can take away from that.  
JEROME ROBINSON: It's just more than basketball, you know.  BC has taught me a lot since I've been here from the basketball side and from the academic side.  Just taking the lessons that I've learned from basketball and applying them to my everyday life.   
 Q.  What impact has Deontae Hawkins had on the team thus far, transfer from Illinois State, and what do you expect to see from him?  
JEROME ROBINSON: I'm expecting a lot from him.  Deontae as a fifth-year has fit in easily, the easiest that I've seen so far.  It feels like he's been here since I started.  I mean, he definitely talks the most on the team.  He gets us hyped up for practice every day, and I think he's a great leader for us, too.   
 Q.  When Ky joined the squad, knowing that he was a fellow North Carolina guy, did you assume the role of big brother at all?  
JEROME ROBINSON: Yeah, I definitely did.  When he took his visit to BC, it was almost the same kind of thing.  He just felt like my little brother.  I have three younger brothers, and he just fit in with them, as well.   
 Q.  One of the questions we asked one of the programs earlier, does a successful season normally dictate that you have to have a trophy?  Can you be successful without hardware?  
JEROME ROBINSON: You can be.  For us and what we've come from, there can be a lot of success in different ways.  I feel like our growth is another success, and I feel like our production by the end of the year will be another one, as well.   
 Q.  It's not all about you, obviously, but are there personal goals that you have for yourself that as you think about being an upperclassman that you want to hit?  
JEROME ROBINSON: Yeah, there's definitely personal goals, but they always tie in with my team because if I don't succeed, we all won't succeed, and if they don't succeed, I won't succeed, so it's all tied in together.   
 Q.  How about you and the northeast winters?  Are you okay?  Have you adjusted?  
JEROME ROBINSON: Yeah, I just ordered some boots not too long ago.  I missed out on them last year.  That slush gets to you when it starts melting a little bit.   
 Q.  You grew up next door neighbors to Scotty McCreery from American Idol, and usually whenever you play NC State he usually tweets about you.  I don't know what kind of relationship you have with him, but what's it like to log on Twitter after you've played well and see a country music super star tweeting about you.  
JEROME ROBINSON: It was pretty cool.  Just a cool shout-out that he gave me.  He actually lives in the back of my neighborhood, which is pretty cool.  We've met like once or twice just like in the area, not like direct friends but mutual friends, and he's just a cool guy, and I appreciate him for that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT