NL DIVISION SERIES: BRAVES v CARDINALS
October 5, 2000
Fernando Vina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. You waited a long time to play in this situation, how much fun are you having with
it?

FERNANDO VINA: I am having a great time. This is what it is all about. I was with the
Brewers for the last five years, have not had a opportunity to do that. It was a great
place to play and start off. Coming here has been a dream come true, this is what baseball
is all about, playing in the postseason, so I am very excited.

Q. Since you are recovering from injury, how close to a hundred percent are you in
terms of base running?

FERNANDO VINA: I am back, I feel real good, the legs feel good, I am running good, I
feel strong. I am a hundred percent.

Q. Is the concentration level any different, are there more demands in the Playoffs?

FERNANDO VINA: Definitely. Every inning, ground ball, every at-bat is blown up. This is
prime time. You have to take care of business and play the game the way it should be. You
cannot give the team any more outs or make too many mistakes because you will get beat. It
is the best of the best. You have to keep right on top of things.

Q. Would you talk about going to Atlanta to play the next two games, what kind of
challenges that presents?

FERNANDO VINA: Atlanta has a great club, regardless of where we are at, they are tough.
We have to go in, play the game the way we know how, do some things to try to get ahead
early and put pressure on. It is tough. We have to use the game plan we had all year, play
hard and hopefully do our thing.

Q. What is it like with all the off days, is it tough for you?

FERNANDO VINA: No, actually, I like it, myself. The games are so pressure packed that
you get a day to relax after the game, get your mind together, get everything back
together, get ready to roll the following day, I think it is good for the Playoffs.

Q. Did you see the Yankee game last night, did you see Sojo's play, falling down at
second base, have you seen anything like that?

FERNANDO VINA: No, I have not seen anything like that. That has to be embarrassing for
him. They made it a lot of fun, they harassed him in the dugout. It did not cost them any
runs, I guess, that is embarrassing especially on prime time. That is the way it goes.

Q. How do you prepare for a playoff game as in comparison to regular season games?

FERNANDO VINA: There is much more at stake. You have to stay with the same game plan.
You cannot go overboard and get yourself too -- you obviously will be excited, have
butterflies, you have to stay the same way, prepared. That is your game plan. You have to
stay with what got you here, stay with the grind.

Q. Facing a top-notch pitcher every day, as you do in the Playoffs, does that change
your approach as a leadoff hitter?

FERNANDO VINA: No, I mean, you are facing the best, it is, with Maddux and Glavine and
them type of guys, you have to go up there and go up positive. Do your work, prepare
yourself the way you know how, see some video, just go up there and battle, regardless, it
will be tough against them, because they are the best. You have to go up with the right
frame of mind, go about it the right way, stay positive and work hard and do your thing.

Q. As someone who gets hit with a lot of pitches, why don't you wear any of the armor
like a lot of players do?

FERNANDO VINA: It does not ever hurt. (Laughing.) I never have gotten a piece of armor,
I better start looking into some. It is something that, I don't know if it is stupid to
get hit so much, or -- I am trying to get on base any way I can. I do my thing, thank God
I have not gotten hit somewhere where it can take me out of the game. I have to be
careful, smart and do whatever I can to help get on base to help the Cardinals win.

Q. Does it matter if you face Millwood or Ashby on Saturday's game?

FERNANDO VINA: No. I mean, we will face quality pitching every game, they are top
pitchers, they are all great pitchers, we have to go with that frame of mind. They are
tough, we have to go out and be tough ourselves, try to get good at-bats and see what
happens.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT