NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: GIANTS v PHILLIES
October 16, 2010
Pat Burrell
Cody Ross
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 San Francisco Giants 4
  Philadelphia Phillies 3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: We've got Cody Ross and Pat Burrell. Questions?   
  
  Q. Cody, your first home run, Halladay was going pretty good at that point. What were you thinking? Were you looking for that inside pitch there? Just talk me through that first home run?  
 CODY ROSS: Well, in the past I've tried everything against them, trying to wait them out and try to be aggressive, and I guess in between there and just trying to look for a pitch to drive and luckily I got it. I'm just trying to hit something in the hole, trying to find a hole and luckily got some good wood on it and got it up in the air.  
  
  Q. What about the second one?   
 CODY ROSS: Same thing.  
  
  Q. Cody, you were in Halladay's perfect game in Florida. Is there anything from that that you were able to take and use and you guys were able to pass on from that?  
 CODY ROSS: I mean, this guy, he's obviously one of the best in the game. He's got the potential to go out there and do that every night he pitches. But fortunately we got to him a little early and Timmy threw outstanding and pitched well enough to get the win tonight. And just a big win for us tonight, coming in here, first game against their horse and taking the first one was -- it's a good feeling for us.   
  
  Q. Bochy mentioned for Pat what a lift Cody's home run was. Halladay was going well. What did that do to the dugout? What kind of pickup was that to see the ball go out?  
 PAT BURRELL: It was huge for us. As far as momentum goes, you know, everyone's familiar with how he did in his last game. And we just needed to go out there and put something on the board. And I think more than anything, just to kind of calm down our offense because when you look at the last start he had, it wasn't a whole lot to hit for those guys.  
 So for us to get on the board first, it was great. You can't say enough about that as far as playing in this environment and quieting the crowd down a little bit. And Cody deserves all the credit, really.   
 And obviously Tim, Tim pitched a hell of a game, too.  
  
  Q. Pat or Cody, what is it about this team that's allowed you guys to be so successful with so many new guys coming in and playing roles like both of you?  
 CODY ROSS: Well, for me, you know, I think when I got here, the situation was a little different. We had a lot of outfielders that were all really experienced and some guys on the bench that are used to playing every day.   
 You know, we all just came together. And we had one thing in mind, and that was to win. We all had to check our ego at the door and put the personal statistics aside and go out there and just play as a team, and I think that's one of the main reasons we're at where we are now. Obviously our pitching is outstanding. But for us to come together and play well as a team, it says a lot.  
 PAT BURRELL: I agree. He nailed it. (Laughter) It's easy for guys to come together when everyone has the same goal. And that's obviously to win.   
 So we made -- there's a lot of guys here that didn't start the year here that are big parts of this team. And like I said, when everybody's going out there to win, it makes a big difference.  
  
  Q. Pat, given how your year started and being released by Tampa Bay --  
 PAT BURRELL: Thanks.   
  
  Q. What does it feel like to get a big hit in an NLCS game? And what was the turnaround for you, what was the difference here versus in Tampa Bay?  
 PAT BURRELL: I don't want to dwell too much on that. But obviously getting a chance to come out here and play, I think, was a big thing for me. You know, obviously starting in a different team and having it turn out the way it did is not what you hoped for, obviously, but I got a chance, the Giants gave me an opportunity to come out here and play, and I just tried to make the most of it.  
  
  Q. Pat, how close was that two-strike pitch? And describe that whole at-bat.   
 PAT BURRELL: Well, it was a ball. I don't know. I haven't checked. I know that, you know, playing here and the home team and the crowd, apparently it was close. When he started me off with a fastball I believe and I got behind 0-2 again and just really trying to get something to put a good swing on, keep the inning going, that was kind of our plan against him today, was to keep the line moving.  
 We got a lot of guys that are capable of doing damage; they're power threats. But off a guy like this, we have to make a conscious effort to tone it down and get good pitches to hit, which still isn't easy.  
  
  Q. Cody, Bruce said you wanted to be a rodeo clown, what's that all about?   
 CODY ROSS: Just something that --  
 PAT BURRELL: Python, rodeo clown.  
 CODY ROSS: Something that I had aspirations of doing when I was in my adolescent younger years, five to ten. My dad was in the rodeo. I used to dress up like him and go to the rodeos and I just -- I guess the reason I was drawn to them so much is because those guys have no fear. They would put their life on the line to save a cowboy.  
 And I just thought that was pretty neat that they could do that.  
  
  Q. Charlie talked before the game about how difficult an adjustment you had to trying to be a DH. What makes that so difficult, and why do you seem so much more comfortable playing the field?  
 PAT BURRELL: I wish I knew the answer, because it probably would have worked out differently down there. For me it has something to do with being in the flow of the game, playing in the field, being active in the game.   
 I think that's a huge part of it for me. I'm not saying that that's right or wrong. I think just for me that was -- it's an important part of it.  
  
  Q. Pat, knowing this ballpark, when you hit that ball, what are you thinking? How tough is it for the left fielder in that situation? You've been in it to go back and make that play.   
 PAT BURRELL: He made a heck of an effort to get back there and got his glove on it. You never know in this park. You can hit some balls certain days and they can go over the fence and some days they don't.   
 But you just have to run out of the box and try to get to second base. And fortunately for us he wasn't able to grab it.  
  
  Q. Cody, can you talk about the odyssey of when you came to the Giants and how it evolved to where you are today.   
 CODY ROSS: Yeah. I mean, a month and a half ago, two months ago, I was down in South Florida and I thought my season's about to end, I'm going to be on the couch watching the playoffs, and next thing I know I got the opportunity to come over here. And it's just been a dream come true, to be able to play with guys like Pat Aubrey and these guys.  
 I mean, they're true professionals. They have one thing in mind and that's winning. And it's been an unbelievable experience for me. I can't really explain it with words, the way it's all gone down.   
 But I'm just cherishing it and trying to enjoy every minute of it.  
  
  Q. Pat, the crowd seemed pretty excited to have you back there. Did you hear anything while you were out in left? See any of the signs?  
 PAT BURRELL: It was just loud. Some cheers and some of the other stuff mixed in. But that's what you expect. I mean, I've certainly seen enough of that while I was here. The home team fans want their team to win, and it shouldn't be any other way.   
 And it makes it a lot more exciting out there, I'll tell you.  
  
  Q. Pat, I know you haven't wanted to make a big deal out of it, but could you share to the extent you can the emotions and the feelings that came up coming back here in a situation like this?  
 PAT BURRELL: You know, there's a lot. I spent a lot of time here and have some really great memories, was a part of something real special. It's hard not to think about that when you get out in the field.   
 Of course, the fans will remind you about it. But you know what, it's business time. All that's over with. And I'm not saying it's easy to not think about some of the things that have happened to you while you're here, but I'm on a new team and the same goal, you know, to win.   
 And once the Anthem's over, it's time to go out there and compete.  
  
  Q. Cody you hit the home run off Lowe when he's got the no-hitter, you get a home run after Halladay after he throws a no-hitter. Are you a guy that hits guys like that or is this something you're in a flow here that you're just connecting?   
 CODY ROSS: I just try to take pride in going up there every single bat and try to get something going for my team, whether it's drawing a walk or hitting a home run. Anything that you can do to spark your club and to get them, get the emotions rolling and keep it going. That's what I'm trying to do.   
 I'm not trying to go up there every single at-bat trying to hit a home run to break up a no-hitter or try to get a hit off Halladay. That's not what you're trying to do up there. But I'll take it and we'll move on tomorrow. It's a great game tonight but we have some more business to take care of.  
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you, gentlemen.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT