ROLAND GARROS
May 30, 2014
Ajla Tomljanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. TOMLJANOVIC/A. Radwanska
      6‑4, 6‑4

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English. 

Q.   Can you summarize your feelings about that one?
    AJLA TOMLJANOVIC:   Well, yeah, not much did go wrong today.   Fourth round next.   Obviously very happy.   I don't want to get too happy about it, either. 

Q.   The fact that Serena and Li Na are gone already, was there a feeling in the locker room did you pick up that there is a chance here to knock these top girls off?
    AJLA TOMLJANOVIC:   Yeah, for sure.   After seeing, you know, the two first seeds go out, you kind of feel like I can do this, too.   I grew up with these girls that are beating them. 
    You go out ‑‑I went on the stadium for the first time, and she kind of feels like home there, because she's been there a lot more than I did.   I went out there, and I really, inside really thought I could win.
    I think that showed and it is why I won.

Q.   How do you, after having a great win the last round, did you let yourself celebrate for a couple of hours and then it was back focusing, or how is your time frame?
    AJLA TOMLJANOVIC:   I mean, yeah, I was happy.   I didn't really celebrate.   My coach called me, and he said, Oh, you sound very cool about it (smiling). 
    I said, Yeah.   I don't know.   I guess my personality isn't to be too ecstatic, but, yeah, I definitely think the tournament is not over for me.

Q.   Do you think that helped you follow it up then, because you were cool?
    AJLA TOMLJANOVIC:   Yeah, for sure.   I really thought about the next match as something very winnable for me.   It definitely helped.

Q.   For those of us who don't know too much about you, how do you come to speak English so well?
    AJLA TOMLJANOVIC:   Well, I actually have family that lives in the States.   Now they moved.   When I was little, I would always go and spend my summers there.
    When I was 13, I moved to Florida to live, to train at the Evert Academy, Chrissie and John's place.   It always kind of came natural, the English and the accent.

Q.   Where was your family in the U.S.?
    AJLA TOMLJANOVIC:   In Boca Raton, Florida.   Yeah. 

Q.   With Serena, Li Na, and now Radwanska out, do you think it's time for a new generation like you, Muguruza, Townsend to be at the top for this tournament?
    AJLA TOMLJANOVIC:   For this tournament or for like ‑‑for here? 

Q.   Yeah. 
    AJLA TOMLJANOVIC:   I mean, look, I'm not really thinking too much about the seeds going out.   Everyone is playing well, you know.   The draw, it has 32 names that have a number next to it, but really, in my head, it doesn't matter. 
    You know, you obviously, you respect everyone, but, you know, you don't fear anyone.
    Yeah, with the seeds out, I guess we are stepping up a little bit. 

Q.   You seem to be a little bit nervous during this press conference.   Is it your first press conference in such a big main room?
    AJLA TOMLJANOVIC:   I believe so, yeah.   I have never had lights in front of me (laughter).
    So, yeah, it is. 

Q.   This tournament seems like Cinderella story for you. 
    AJLA TOMLJANOVIC:   If you want to call it that (smiling).   I have heard that a lot of times.   Don't you call that when it's quarters, not fourth round?   Hopefully it keeps going, and you guys don't jinx me. 

Q.   She's one of the most clever and crafty players out there.   How did you deal with that and what was your thinking going in?   How did it roll out according to your expectations?
    AJLA TOMLJANOVIC:   I was definitely ready for probably the toughest match of my career.
    She did everything I expected.   You know, I respect her a ton, and she's been around forever.   She's a top player, but maybe it wasn't her best day, you know, but I definitely think I took advantage and dictated today.
    So, I don't know, I think it came pretty well nicely together.

Q.   I don't know much about you.   How did you get the opportunity to come to Florida and train in Chrissie Evert Academy?
    AJLA TOMLJANOVIC:   Yeah, well, I'm originally from Croatia, and I have lived there for ‑‑my first 13 years.   I would always kind of go to the States for like a few weeks and train somewhere, Bradenton, and then I tried Chris Evert.   I felt very at home there.   I started getting along with Chrissie and John very well.   They welcomed me.
    It all was a little better for me to train there and live there if I was going to pursue my tennis career. 
    So when I decided to move, that seemed like the perfect place.

Q.   I read a Q&A you did recently and it said Chrissie is like your second mom. 
    AJLA TOMLJANOVIC:   Yeah, that came out yesterday.
    Yeah, I mean, I'm very fortunate to have her in my corner.   Not only she helps me on the court, but we actually have a great relationship off the court.   We get together when I'm in Boca.   And, you know, she calls, I call her, she calls me. 
    So it's really great for me to have her as a friend and as a mentor.

Q.   Did you speak to her going into this match?
    AJLA TOMLJANOVIC:   Um, I might have a little bit.   I don't know. 

Q.   So she didn't give you any specific tips or anything for this?
    AJLA TOMLJANOVIC:   She was definitely very supportive.   Yeah.   I don't know about tips, but, yeah, she really wants me to do well, and, I mean, I can feel that from her.   I'm really happy that, you know, she's someone I can rely on. 

Q.   She's very big on the mental game and on things like showing your body language and just being tough at the right times.   Is that the kind of thing you talk about with her?
    AJLA TOMLJANOVIC:   Yeah, absolutely.   I mean, she definitely has a ton of knowledge.
    But that part in particular, I think she was very good at when she played or maybe the best.
    So it's kind of nice to see it from her perspective when she watches me play, to see if I'm nervous.   She always thought I had good composure but maybe thought I could be a little bit more feisty out there.

Q.   Maybe you know who is next for you? 
    AJLA TOMLJANOVIC:   I do not know.   Do you know? 

Q.   So last year, you shot up the rankings.   You're on the rise.   What do you think is really working for you as you're moving up?
    AJLA TOMLJANOVIC:   Yeah, I mean, last year was my comeback year from mono, and I think I got myself to 70 to finish the year, and I thought that was a good effort.
    Then I started working in December with my new coach, Dave Taylor, and I really think that helped a lot, because he really implemented some things in my game that I really needed.   I really owe him this win today, for sure. 

Q.   When you're about to serve out for the match, what was going on in your mind?   Were you nervous, or how did you just keep cool in that moment?
    AJLA TOMLJANOVIC:   Yeah.   Honestly, what went through my mind was that match in Australia when I was about to serve out 5‑4 against Sloane in the second round.   I thought, Oh, my God, here I am again with an opportunity.   And it was like, I'm definitely not going to do the same thing I did last time.
    Actually, I even went to the wrong side at like 30‑Love, I think, because I was thinking, Okay, if I serve well here it's going to be 40‑Love.   And I guess in my mind I already thought I had three match points.   Probably embarrassing to do that first time at Chatrier, but I pulled it out.

Q.   David Taylor meant so much.   Can you talk a little bit about what he might have changed or told you?
    AJLA TOMLJANOVIC:   Yeah, he definitely saw me as an aggressive player, someone who right off the bat should be the one dictating, since I'm a big girl and have a big serve.
    He worked on my forehand a lot to be aggressive but still hit shape.   The biggest thing was he really thought I was good.   Yeah, like he, like I could truly say he believed in me.
    That's big, because, you know, sometimes you have some losses and you think, Oh, my God, is this going right around or not? 
    But I had some tough losses this year, and he never stopped believing I could do this.   I'm really happy that he's so with me. 

Q.   Your next match is either Navarro or Taylor.   Could you talk about each opponent separately?
    AJLA TOMLJANOVIC:   Yeah, Taylor, she trained in USTA maybe a year ago or so.   I practiced with her a few times, even played some sets.
    She's very crafty.   Obviously having her Cinderella story, being so young in the third round.
    But, yeah, actually I feel like they play a little similar.   Taylor is maybe more aggressive, but Carla's stuff, she doesn't give it away.   It's going to be a good match actually, I think.
    Whoever wins, I'll be ready. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT