AUSTRALIAN OPEN
February 8, 2021
Ajla Tomljanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  A. TOMLJANOVIC/M. Doi
 6-2, 6-1
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. Tough opponent, but you got through 2-1.  Talk us through that performance today.
 AJLA TOMLJANOVIC:   Yeah, I mean, sounds pretty easy, but it definitely didn't feel like it.  I know Misaki pretty well, so I knew she'd be a tough opponent in the sense that she's going to make me work for it.
 I do feel once I got on a roll that she gave me a few errors, made it seem a little bit easier.  But I was just pleased that I came out with a strong first round and came up with a win, which always feels good.
 Q. How good is it to be back competing in Melbourne after everything that's happened in the last year?
 AJLA TOMLJANOVIC:   It's a little surreal actually.  Just living normally, I think it's the only place in the world where we can do that.  I went for a dinner on Saturday.  I was walking along the river on south bank.  I thought to myself, Wow, this is incredible.  We're just so fortunate to be here in this country, let alone play the slam.
 When you really put in perspective everything that went into this, getting us here, quarantine for two weeks, when we know families have been stuck overseas and couldn't come and see their own families, it's pretty crazy.
 I'm just really hoping I get as many wins as possible here to keep it going.
 Q. What is it like on a day like today when you drop three games at a Grand Slam, everything goes exactly as you planned?
 AJLA TOMLJANOVIC:   I don't want to complain at all about a performance like today, but those gritty wins that take a little more effort, you feel like you're almost on the verge of losing, those actually feel the best to me.
 I worked really hard to put myself in a position where I can come up with wins like these as well.  It definitely gives me confidence that I can do it.  As long as I put in the work and just come in with the right attitude at some point it will click.  I think today was one of those days.
 Q. You haven't been past the second round for a while.  Does that play on your mind or you forget that sort of stuff?
 AJLA TOMLJANOVIC:   It doesn't played on my mind too much because it actually starts playing, like, after I'm out of the tournament.  I'm like, It's been a while.  Once I'm in here, actually I never look at the draw.  So I found out who I'm playing next potentially.
 Look, when you're facing a seed in these slams, it's never easy.  They've been in these situations more than me.  They've had more wins on this stage.  I definitely consider myself coming into all these matches as an underdog, which helps me as well.
 At the same time I do have the belief that I can win.  When it happens, it will.  But I'm definitely not putting so much pressure prior to the match.
 Q. Next match, both interesting from both perspectives.
 AJLA TOMLJANOVIC:   Yeah, I mean, it would be nice if I played Lizette, just to have an Aussie matchup in the second round, to have an Aussie guaranteed through the third.  I think we'd all be happy with that.
 I've played Simona a few times, I've never beaten her.  It's always been close.  I do feel like if I execute my game plan, I do have a chance.  Tennis is so open now.  Anything is possible.  I think girls know that, even the top seeds.  Everyone comes in really ready, so...
 I've got nothing to lose.  But I do believe I can put myself in a really good position.
 Q. Talk about the Halep matches.  Three of them went the distance, the other was a tight two-setter.  What did you find in the key moments that you need to change?
 AJLA TOMLJANOVIC:   Yeah, the last one that was in Adelaide, I think I got a little too behind in both sets.  Once I got it going, I wouldn't say it was too late but she just had that momentum.  It really comes down to a few points that are just so important.  I think I had her actually in Cincinnati that one year.  That one still haunts me a little bit, being up 3-Love in the third.
 It's really just about closing out matches and playing well in the key moments.  It's why she's been there for so long, yeah.
 Q. Having beaten a lot of those types of caliber players in the past, how much confidence does that give you that you can beat them?
 AJLA TOMLJANOVIC:   It's everything really.  I have just that motto that if you can do it once, you can do it again.  Even if you do it for five games, why not eventually for 12, 18, however long it takes.
 It's just about obviously putting in the work off the court, but coming in with a mindset that allows you to just believe in yourself.
 Q. The relationship with Lizette, two Queenslanders, you train with her, know a lot about her.  Tell us about that relationship.
 AJLA TOMLJANOVIC:   We actually also played US Open one year.  Lizette is such a good player.  I think she's improved a lot over the years.  I don't really remember the match, but I just know it's always pretty competitive.  I'm sure she loves playing here at home, loves the conditions, these courts.  Kind of like me, she knows this place really well.
 I think it would be nice if we both came out playing really well and the best player won.
 Q. Are you enjoying it as much now as maybe even a couple years ago?
 AJLA TOMLJANOVIC:   It's actually a little different now.  I feel like I'm in a different stage in my career.  I cherish it more, but at the same time I still have that pressure that I put on myself.
 I think before I wouldn't say I took it for granted, but I took it more as a kid, I'm just here playing a tournament.  That was also nice.  I kind of miss that mindset as well.
 Now I feel not that my time is limited, but I want to treat every tournament as a huge opportunity that can take me places.  I definitely do think I'm a little bit not on the older side, but just a little more experienced and mature.
 Yeah, I'm not 20 any more.
 Q. Did some of that come about more over the last year?
 AJLA TOMLJANOVIC:   Yeah.  For me personally, it was a bit of a struggle last year.  Feel like a lot of things came crashing down just because it was so out of my control, and I didn't know how to handle it.
 Then I sometimes now look back on certain situations that I was in that were really tough.  At the time I kind of just went with the flow.  I look back now and I'm like, Wow, I overcame that pretty well.
 I try to give myself a little more credit than I used to because if I could change one thing in my path, in my career, is that I would be a little more positive with myself.  Not sure if it would have made a difference, but I definitely consciously try to do that now.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT