BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
January 4, 2016
Ajla Tomljanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








C. SUAREZ NAVARRO/A. Tomljanovic
6-1, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Never seemed to really find your groove at any point today, did you?
AJLA TOMLJANOVIC: Yeah, it was tough.  Tough with the serve.  I thought -- usually my serve is my weapon, and today just physically was impossible for me to use it as one, so I was always on the defense.
And Carla is a great player.  You need to be 100% ready physically to compete and have a chance.  So, yeah, just wasn't there today.
Q. So the shoulder?
AJLA TOMLJANOVIC: Actually, no.  That's a bit ironic.  I've been worried about the shoulder the whole pre-season and that wasn't the issue.
I tore a bit of an ab couple days prior to my match.  I tried to push my matches as late as I could.  Got a Monday start.
But when you get into the competitive match it's just different.  You try harder and you put more strain on it.  It just, yeah, unfortunately wasn't good enough.
Q. Did it happen in the gym?  Practice court?
AJLA TOMLJANOVIC: Practice match, yeah, on the serve.
Q. How is that impacting you now going forward?
AJLA TOMLJANOVIC: Yeah, definitely it is gonna set me back a little bit, but for me amount AO is the main goal.  My plan was to go to Sydney.  That might not happen.  But I still don't know.  Have to see how it pulls up in the next couple of days.  If Sydney is a no-go, that doesn't matter as long as I'm ready for Melbourne.
Q. Should be ready by Melbourne?
AJLA TOMLJANOVIC: I think if I do the right things, and, yeah, if I don't push for Sydney I should be fine.
That's the one thing.  Here I think I rushed my preparation a bit.  I knew going in that it happened just three days before.  I mean, I didn't serve couple of days and I thought maybe I can give myself a chance.
Unfortunately, no.  I was just eager to play and get back out there, but maybe it was a bit of a bad decision.
Q. What's the medical advice at this stage?  That you'll be all right for Melbourne if you rest, or is it a bit early to say yet?
AJLA TOMLJANOVIC: I think if I rest I should be fine for Melbourne.  But, yeah, I mean, if I'm all right for Sydney, that's even better.  I think Melbourne should be fine.
Q. Disappointing thing I suppose.  You only the get three tournaments at home.  How do you overcome disappointment?  What do you do?  Try and get outside now?
AJLA TOMLJANOVIC: Yeah, you know, I don't know if it's more disappointing to lose like this or not even play at all in a way.  I think it's tough to say.  I'm happy that I got to play.  I was out there.  I tried.  The home crowd is always fun.
But, yeah, it's a bit disappointing to not get a win at home.  The season is long.  There are so many more tournaments to go.  The fact that this is home and I could have maybe done better or -- it's just a little bit -- I'm more sad than angry.
Q. Would you say you're about 60% or 70% capacity, or not even?
AJLA TOMLJANOVIC: It was just bothering me on my serve, so I don't even know.  I think at one point I looked up at my percentage and it was like down to 30.  I was like, No wonder I'm losing this badly.
So I would say like 40%.  So, yeah, but it didn't bother me on my groundstrokes, but tough to get into a match when you're on the defensive and Carla is playing well and not giving you many errors and holding pretty comfortably.
Mentally it's tough to get in the match like that.
Q. Where is the passport at?
AJLA TOMLJANOVIC: I think this year I should get it in May.
Q. That late?
AJLA TOMLJANOVIC: Yeah.
Q. With Fed Cup and Olympic eligibility though, are you aware if you'll ever be able to represent Australia in team competition?
AJLA TOMLJANOVIC: Yeah, I've been a bit out of the loop with that, but I've heard different things.  I've heard that I'm okay, that I can play.  And then I've heard that, I don't know, Dasha can't play the first tie.
So I have no idea where it's at.  I'm just waiting for my passport and then I guess I'll see.  But I know I'm not eligible for the Olympics this year.  I'm pretty sure I'm not just because I won't be able to play a Fed Cup tie with the time I have.
Q. Will you play with Croatia?
AJLA TOMLJANOVIC: No.  No.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT