BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
January 4, 2015
Ajla Tomljanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. TOMLJANOVIC/J. Jankovic
  7‑6, 6‑0

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You had a win against Radwanska last season.   Pretty good way to start 2015. 
AJLA TOMLJANOVIC:   Yeah, you know, when I saw the draw I knew I would have to play excellent to beat Jelena today.   I really went out there and had nothing to lose.   I think knowing that I put the work in in the off‑season really kind of helped my confidence, even though it was the first match the season and you're not supposed to be too confident. 
But knowing that you've done the work really helps. 

Q.   The crowd was really embracing you.   Were you sensing that you're now one of us? 
AJLA TOMLJANOVIC:   Yeah, you know it was very nice.   I tried not think about it too much, just try to stay in the moment and focus more about my game. 
Every now and then it kind of goes through my mind that I have that on my side now.   It feels really nice, I got to say.

Q.   She is a former world No. 1.   Where do you think you might go this season with your ranking?
AJLA TOMLJANOVIC:   Yeah, you know, if I keep playing the way I'm playing and keep improving, I think‑‑ I mean, I don't want to put a number on it, but I really think I can go far, you know.
That's all I want to do this year, is just improve and get better.   So if that's like, I don't know, top 20, 30, so be it.   But every day just getting better and improving is really what I'm after this year.

Q.   What's Dave been working on with you?
AJLA TOMLJANOVIC:   Yeah, Dave, he's been‑‑ now it's been sort of more about details.   Like before going in matches, thinking, Okay, you got to execute this game plan or get the ball here no matter what.
So really just building my game around my strengths and trying to get rid of most of my weaknesses.   It's tough, but it's what we've been working a lot in the off‑season on.   And just staying composed out there.
You can play well in practice, but you also got to believe.   I don't know how much a coach can help you with that.   You kind of have to‑‑ that part you kind of got to do on your own. 

Q.   You seem to have really strong bonds with Australians.   Tell us about that relationship. 
AJLA TOMLJANOVIC:   Yeah, I came here November 2nd and I didn't know what to expect.   When got here, everyone welcomed me so nicely.   I really didn't think it would go that well.
So I was so pleased, and the more time I spend here, it just gets better. 
So, yeah, I'm actually really happy. 

Q.   Is it kind of a split personality really, though?   You probably still have a lot of things about Croatia you love, things in Australia that you love. 
AJLA TOMLJANOVIC:   Yeah, exactly.   I mean, I might have said this before, but that part of me, you know, my roots are Croatian.   It's hard to get rid of that part.   It's not like I'm trying to like now completely forget about where I was born.
But embracing the Aussie culture and playing for Australia, it's really an honor.   So this month of tennis, it's going to be pretty amazing.   I'm just very grateful. 








END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT