NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: RED WINGS v FLYERS
June 6, 1997
Trent Klatt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Trent, can you tell us what was said at the meeting, the sense of the mood of the meeting?
 
TRENT KLATT:  It was obviously a sense of urgency.  We are actually against the wall and we have to do something tomorrow night to try and turn this around. 
 

Q.  Any one player in particular?  Was it Eric calling the meeting?
 
TRENT KLATT:  Terry came in and started it.  And, then we had a team meeting after that, just players. 
 

Q.  Was it ugly?
 
TRENT KLATT:  No, it wasn't ugly.  We just let some things out in the air and, you know, we have got to try and find something to build on and we have got -- defensively, first, and we have given up many odd-man rushes against us which is not characteristic of our team.  And, we have got to try to get through the neutral zone and get the puck in deep, get the fore-check going and playing physical and playing bodies like this team has been able to do. 
 

Q.  Was it two or three guys that did most of the talking?
 
TRENT KLATT:  There was a few guys.  I mean, it is generally a team meeting.  Everyone has input if they think they have the need for it.  And, very positive coming out afterwards.  I think we are all kind of refocused and regrouped and on the same page and hopefully we can get the ship turned around and go in the right direction. 
 

Q.  Is it because Detroit is playing so well?
 
TRENT KLATT:  They are playing incredibly well right now and they are not giving us anything. They are in our face every every time we get the puck.  We don't have any time to do anything with it.  And, you know, some of it is our problem, but a lot of it is theirs. They are just playing extremely well right now.  Got to try and create more time.  When we have the puck on our stick, we have got to have better support from all the players.  We have got to play defensively better in front of Hexy.  There is not one particular thing in our game that has to change.  It is everything.  We have got to do everything a little better. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT