NBA FINALS: CLEVELAND VS GOLDEN STATE
June 11, 2017
Richard Jefferson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What is the mindset of the team?
RICHARD JEFFERSON: We're in a great mood.  We're always in great moods. We're the grumpiest, happiest band of idiots that you could ever be around, to tell you the truth.  That's just us.
Q. What are you expecting from them tomorrow in terms of their mindset?
RICHARD JEFFERSON: I think they're going to view this as a Game 7 situation.  I really and truly believe so.  For us, every game's a Game 7.  But for them, this particularly is a Game 7 from the standpoint of they don't want to go back to Cleveland, and they understand that anything can happen in Game 7.  I think both teams know that and understand that.
So for them, they view this as the one opportunity where everything's kind of in their favor.  I don't know if it will be in their favor if it goes back to Cleveland.  Who knows, with all the pressure, if it goes to Game 7, it would be in their favor.  So this is the one game where they have not as much pressure and they have an opportunity to close it out in front of their home fans.
Q. When did you become such a successful roll man on the pick-and-roll?
RICHARD JEFFERSON: Well, two days ago, to tell you the truth.  No, you have to pride yourself on being a basketball player.  It's rolling, trying to make the right play. I have great guys and great shooters on the floor, so it is my job just to roll and make sure that you make the right play.  They're not asking me to do too much in that situation, but it's still something that it's harder than you think.  But having the teammates around make it's easier.
Q. In all your years in the league have you ever run pick-and-roll as the roll man so often?
RICHARD JEFFERSON: I have.  I have, in situations, but not, obviously, not on a stage like this, where every decision that you're making it that quick.  But that's what this team does.  Because they play small, they put you in that position to have to do stuff like that.  And I'm fine with that.
I think it's also something that, like Bron is, he's one of the best roll guys in the NBA, if you look at what he's able to do.  But they make it easy -- all the reads are there, I just have to make the right one.
Q. LeBron was talking about how you got to give superstars like KD different looks and how you've been doing a good job on him in the time you're on him.  Can you just describe what that's been like for you?
RICHARD JEFFERSON: Well, I've guarded K.D. since he came into this league.  He's one of the best talents that this league has seen.  It's the same with guarding LeBron.  I had to do that.  All the high-level small forwards, Carmelo.  These are guys that are very different players.  They're all very unique talents, and so you have your hands full when you get that opportunity to guard them.
Tristan did a great job, Shumpert has done a great job, Bron obviously is expected to do so much, but also has done a great job.  He's going to score his points.  There is no stopping K.D.  There is no stopping LeBron or Steph or Kyrie.  There's no stopping any of them.  It's just trying to give them different looks that take away one or two possessions a game.
Q. How key is it to give LeBron a little bit of a break from that?
RICHARD JEFFERSON: He doesn't need a break.  I just think that it's smarter for us.  You can't just always try to be the strongest; you have to be the smartest.  And I've just viewed this as an opportunity for him to roam around, to go and grab loose balls, to play passing lanes.
So he's not just taking a break on defense; he's actually doing so much more.  Now, if you can grab the rebound and push it, he's not at the point of contact in a few of these situations.  It's not like we're resting him on defense.  We're not putting him in a corner and telling him to guard anybody. He was guarding Draymond, their other All-Star.  So he still has a lot of responsibilities also.
Q. What Kyrie's done in elimination games the last few years has been extraordinary.  What makes him so suited for those situations?
RICHARD JEFFERSON: Well, you have to ask Kyrie the approach that he takes, but for the most part I just truly believe that he enjoys the moment.  He embraces the moment, I wouldn't say too much, but at times where he wants that moment so bad that he puts pressure on himself, because he expects that much of himself.
But, no, I just think, as a competitor, he wants to win.  He's not afraid of those moments.  He looks forward to those moments.  I think that's when he's the most locked in is when the intensity is at its highest.  I think that's why he's performed so well in those situations.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT