NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 12, 2016
Richard Jefferson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Do you do anything different now with Draymond out for next game?  
RICHARD JEFFERSON: No, probably not.  This is one of the most potent teams in the league, so if anything this probably makes them a little more dangerous.  They're going to be fired up and probably a little frustrated.   
 Q.  How much of a factor will the chip on the shoulder be?  
RICHARD JEFFERSON: Oh, I don't know if there's a chip on their shoulder.  They're just a man down.  I don't know where the chip would come from.  You know, we were a man down because Kevin went down, and now they're a man down for an accumulation of things, of points in the league.  So I wouldn't call it a chip.  I would just say that they're going to play like they're a man down.   
 Q.  What is your reaction to this, surprise?  
RICHARD JEFFERSON: No, that's not how I go about things.  Again, this is something that is accumulation of things.  It's not the one incident with LeBron.  It wasn't anything like that.  It was something that we're all very aware of what happens over the course of the Playoffs and the points and technicals and flagrants.   
So we don't wish for anything on anybody, and we don't wish for injuries.  We don't wish for anything.  You just want a good, hard-fought series, and whatever the NBA dictates,that's what happens.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
RICHARD JEFFERSON: You don't get into those things.  We saw the play.  It was well-documented, the Adams play, the two Adams plays in the last series.  I think they were a little bit on pins and needles thinking he could get suspended after that one.  It didn't happen.  In this situation something happened and the NBA made a ruling.   
 Q.  How does this change the game plan? Are there things that you think you can take advantage of?  You guys have already been very good on the offensive boards.  Do you think you'll be even more dominant with that?  
RICHARD JEFFERSON: They have seven guys that are 6'7", long and athletic and can make plays and score.  That's part of their strength.  Draymond's a special guy for them, obviously.  But the way we view it is he played a big part for them in Game 2.  He's a big part of our scoring line in Game 2.  He's been a big part for them all year.  This is, you know, a tough loss for them, but by no means are they wounded, and by no means are they vulnerable.  This is a team that they're ready for whatever challenge is put out there.   
 Q.  What are some of the positives you guys took from Game 4?  
RICHARD JEFFERSON: Well, we had our opportunities.  And they're a team that if you don't take the opportunities that have been given, they'll make you pay for them, and that's what they did.  We were up by 8.  They hit two quick threes and it brought the game a little bit closer, and we didn't answer it the way we should.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT