NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 9, 2016
Richard Jefferson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Are you prepared to start the rest of the series if it comes to that?
RICHARD JEFFERSON: Well, I don't have much of a choice.  Whatever the situation dictates, I'm going to be ready to go.  I think Kevin will be back in the series without a doubt, if you ask me.  But whatever they need from me, that's always been my motto.
Q. Steph has had a lack of production, but Klay hasn't really gotten going either.  What have you done to corral him?
RICHARD JEFFERSON: There's going to be more attention on Steph, obviously, because he's a two-time MVP and unanimous MVP.  I think Klay's definitely a guy that feeds off of Steph's performance.  When Steph gets going, and all of a sudden you start putting two, three guys on Steph, and guys are chasing him around, I think that's when Klay feeds off of him, and the rest of the team does.
It's just one of those things.  They won the first two games in spectacular fashion, and everyone was talking sweep.  Then they lose a game in spectacular fashion, and everyone wants to know what's wrong with guys.  It's a long series and a long way to go.  There are going to be ups and downs.  It's a matter of who can get to four first.  It's not the first one to two.  It's a matter of just battling through some of these ups and downs in the series.
Q. Even in the games they won in Oakland, you guys did a pretty good job of holding Steph and Klay.  What did the Cavaliers do defensively against them last night?
RICHARD JEFFERSON: If you put a couple of guys on the ball, you can try to be really, really aggressive with them.  But the downside of that is other guys can hurt you.  You look at Livingston in Game 1, you look at Barbosa in Game 1, and the way those guys have played throughout the series, and what Draymond did in Game 2 going for [28 points] -- you can put yourself in a very vulnerable position for other guys to beat you, and that's what they did in those two games.  Now you get out here.  We're a little more in our element, and all of a sudden our shots start to fall.
Our offense was our biggest problem in those two games.  The fact that we were putting up [89 and 77] points, that was really uncharacteristic of us.  We had plenty of opportunities in those games to make it a closer game, to put them in a position to  hit tough shots.  But we just couldn't score enough points.  Then we finally got off that little slump and we were able to put some points up last night.
Q. When you look at not only in this series, but in the Playoffs, there's been so many lopsided games.  It seems like more so than normal, especially in The Finals but even in other series.  What do you make of that?
RICHARD JEFFERSON: I think it's amazing, mostly because we've been on the positive end of those things.  So I don't mind lopsided wins.  Even our two losses that we had prior to this series against Toronto, we had a five-point lead with a few minutes to go, even though we were down big in both games.
But it's just a part of it.  I think you see how important home court is.  You see how important it is to protect home court.  But I think I've always said that when you're at home, you have your element.  You sleep in your own bed.  You're around your friends and family.  There's something that just gives you a little bit of energy and the fans, obviously.  There's a routine.  There is treatment.  There are things that you have access to that's going to make your body feel a little bit better.  And here in the Playoffs, two, three percent, if your body's feeling that much better, it can make a difference when you combine this with all the guys.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT