SAUDI INTERNATIONAL POWERED BY SBIA
February 1, 2020
Victor Dubuisson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  65, the best of the afternoon starters out there. What did you do particularly well, do you feel?  
VICTOR DUBUISSON: I started the day on No. 1, which is a tricky tee shot. I was going to hit a hybrid to give me a hundred yard shot and then I told my caddie, Okay, today it's going to be very windy, let's be a little more aggressive and try to play more relaxed into this tricky wind here. And everything, it was just the kind of day where everything goes well. I mean, I made a few mistakes on yardage with the wind and I managed to save par each time. So it is the kind of day where everything is manageable.   
 Q.  You didn't compete in November or December. Came back in Abu Dhabi, no object sign of this form in Abu Dhabi or Dubai last week. Have you felt it coming, have you felt the game coming?  
VICTOR DUBUISSON: Yeah, I didn't play really well in Abu Dhabi, I made the cut but my golf was not very good. Same as last year, I mean last year my golf was not very good, my long game was struggling, it's kind of my short game who gave me the opportunity to keep my card, but otherwise my golf was really bad. We had a long chat with my coach after Abu Dhabi, because it was the first time he came to the whole tournament so he saw me play the whole four days and he said, It's not possible, your swing is good. Last year your swing was very good, it's not possible that you hit the ball like this. So I decided to take my old set of clubs that I was using two years ago from TaylorMade, and I found in my, how do you say, I found my game into the wind again, so I'm quite happy now.   
 Q.  It looks like you'll play with your Ryder Cup partner Graeme McDowell in the final round. How much are you looking forward to that?  
VICTOR DUBUISSON: Oh, it would be a great day. We haven't played together since the Ryder Cup, so, yeah, I'm very happy to play with him tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT