ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 4, 2015
Victor Dubuisson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Gaining ground on the leaders, how important was the birdie at 9?   Did it give you the momentum to birdie 10 and 11?   
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   Yeah, kind of.   I've hit some really good shots again but always getting trouble with the distance and that cost me two really bad bogeys on the first eight holes.   
But then, yeah, 9, 10,11, that's the only way to get back with a chance to win here.   
   
 Q.   What does it feel like to have literally thousands of people willing every putt into the hole?   
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   It feels great, of course.   You know, you always want to do better in your own country.   
   
 Q.   How special with a chance to win your National Championship in front of these fans; your thoughts on that?  
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   I think tomorrow I will need a very good start if I want to have a chance.   I think you need to be like 1‑, 2‑, 3‑under after six, seven, to really get a chance.   Because when you start the back nine, from 12 to 18, it's really difficult to make birdies.  
   
 Q.   Your thoughts on day three?   
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   I played very well again.   Made two mistake on distance on the first eight holes, cost me two bogeys.   But my game is really good.   So had three birdies in a row from 9 to 11 and then I did my best, but it's really difficult to make some birdies at the end.   
   
 Q.   That was nice around that turn, wasn't it, because you got right back in the competition and you must have felt the juices flowing just then?  
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   Yeah, I saw the leaderboard.   The few leaders were around 7‑, 8‑under, so I knew something had to happen.   But it's so difficult at the end to make some birdies.  
   
 Q.   When you went out, were you conscious of all the other low scores that were being made and knew that there must be chances out there?   
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   Yeah, but I saw the leaderboard this morning, the ranking, and most of the players are doing well.   But you know, the course is still really hard.   2‑under is a good score.   
   
 Q.   When you look around you and see so many people here and they are all willing you onto victory and you're the home favorite here, does that help?   Does that give you support?   
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   Yeah, yeah, of course.   They give me a lot of support.   It's really, really good to hear when you make a putt.  
   
 Q.   It's what you dream of, presumably, when you get into golf.   
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   Yeah, exactly.   I was in their position ten years ago.   That's why I try to do my best here, and it's even more difficult.  
   
 Q.   Any idea what you need to do Sunday?   
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   Here, you never know.   Depends on the weather.   If it's like today, I really don't know.   But I need to have a really good start I think.   Because as I said, it's difficult on the back nine to make some birdies.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT