ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 3, 2015
Victor Dubuisson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Second round of 70 to go with yesterday's 68, how do you feel about your play today?  
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   Played very well.   I have two shots that I hit very good, 8 and 9, and finished in a bad spot.   So I had two bogeys there.   
But you know, on this course, when you start to make one bogey, two bogey, then you think that it can turn really bad.   But I had a great round and I'm very happy about the way I played today.   It was really tough out there with the wind this afternoon.  
   
 Q.   You're getting great support from the home fans.   Describe the atmosphere from your point of view?   
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   Yeah, it's great support but I'm so focused on my game I don't really look around.   But yeah, I can feel the support.  
   
 Q.   Obviously you've got a great opportunity going into this weekend.   How excited about the possibility?   
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   Very excited, of course.   But you know, on this course, you can't afford any mistakes.   I will have to play again very well tomorrow, and if the putting is good, it can be a good result.  
   
 Q.   Your best result for some time last week, 20th place there.   Has something clicked in the game, something improved?   
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   Just the fact that I come back to play in Europe and I played a little more.   At the beginning of the season, it was more like one event or two events, and then five weeks of break and then two events.   Now I've started to play more events in a row and that's probably why my game is improving.  
   
 Q.   What are your thoughts on the way you've played out there today?   
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   I played very well.   To score under par here is really good, so I'm very happy about today.  
   
 Q.   Tell me about that eagle, too, because that was pretty special, wasn't it?   
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   Yeah, that's something that happens sometimes.   But you know, it's very nice to make an eagle.   
   
 Q.   It's the kind of shot that gets you involved in the championship and makes you smile and just that extra spring in your step and makes you feel good about your game?  
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   Yeah, makes you feel good, of course.  
   
 Q.   Have you enjoyed playing alongside Martin Kaymer and other Ryder Cup Team mate, Jamie Donaldson?  
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   Yeah, we had two great rounds yesterday and today.   It's always better when you play with someone you know because you can chat a little on the course.  
   
 Q.   We can see the way the wind has affected things, and some areas of the course seem dry and burned out, as well.   It's not easy.   
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   It's not easy.   We played into the wind this afternoon.   Sometimes it was blowing strong.   So on holes like 15, 16, 17, 18, it's difficult to manage those holes.  
   
 Q.   I'm sure this is an obvious question, but are you excited by the weekend?   
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   Yeah, I'm excited.   I will go now to work on a few things on my game and have to be ready for tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT