NEDBANK GOLF CHALLENGE PRESENTED BY GARY PLAYER
November 11, 2017
Victor Dubuisson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Third round of 71.  Give us your thoughts on your play today.  
VICTOR DUBUISSON: I played as good as the first two rounds but my putting was maybe not as good.  I missed some good opportunities, but the problem is I felt like all day, I had tricky, downhill putts, and I couldn't really go for it because I didn't want to, the course, it's a really tough course.   
I never wanted to give myself 3 1/2, four feet second putts.  So I kind of putted very easy.  That's why I didn't make as many birdies as the day before.   
 Q.  You were telling us on the first day how much you like this course and like this environment.  How important is it to you that you do like the venue and you enjoy playing the course?  
VICTOR DUBUISSON: Yeah, it's one of my favourite tournaments.  I always play well here.  I think it's because I've played the course very sensitive.  I try to play middle of the green, and you know, it's a course where you can't make more than bogey.  I think 1-under is still a good score here.   
 Q.  You told us at the start of the week that your goal is to make it into Dubai next week.  Surely now you're thinking about winning this tournament because you're in great position.  
VICTOR DUBUISSON: Yeah, of course I think about winning, but it's a long road tomorrow.  With 18 holes to go, everything can happen here.  So I hope I will just focus on doing my best and just don't make mistakes.   
 Q.  One final question.  You've won a couple of times before in Turkey and played well in Ryder Cup and you've handled pressure very well.  Is that something that's natural to you or something that you've had to work at?  
VICTOR DUBUISSON: I think it's just because I focus on my game and shot after shot.  I don't really look -- I look at the leaderboard, of course.  It's normal.   
But it's not because I'm like two behind or three or one that I will go for birdie.  I just have a strategy in my head, and I just try to keep it on the course.   
 Q.  Tougher out there for you today.  What was the main difference in the game today?  
VICTOR DUBUISSON: I think the pin positions were more tricky today.  Couldn't really go for it.  Every time I hit a good shot, all day I had downhill putts.  I never had really firm putts.  I always had to go easy on them, and it was difficult to make putts.   
 Q.  Top five in the last two years on this golf course.  There's something about playing here that seems to suit you.  What is it, the overall experience, that you think makes you play so well?  
VICTOR DUBUISSON: I think it's because I play this course very sensitive.  Sometimes I play too safe I think but I just don't want to make big mistakes here.  The birdies are so difficult to make, and I just always try to hit middle of the green and take my two putts and make some birdies on the par 5.   
 Q.  Obviously aim for you at the start of the week was to get into Dubai next week.  You have a chance now of winning the tournament tomorrow, final group, big series, Rolex Series.  How much are you looking forward to tomorrow?  
VICTOR DUBUISSON: Yeah, looking forward but it will be a long road tomorrow.  You know, I will try to do my best and play as good as I did the last three rounds.  But to win, you know, you know that you need to same emotion as the last three rounds.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT