ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 2, 2015
Victor Dubuisson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   An excellent opening round of 3‑under par; what pleased you most about your play today?  
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   The fact that I played a really unlucky bogey on 14 with three good shots, and then the most difficult holes were coming, 15, 16 and 18.   I managed to stay calm and do a really good birdie on 18.   It could have turned really‑‑ on this course, it can turn really bad, and what I did today was very good because I've been surrounded by the first round and with all this pressure, I'm very pleased with this.  
   
 Q.   You seemed to be playing very aggressively and you seemed to be going at pins that other players wouldn't go at, certainly the 18th hole.   Tell us about that.   
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   On the 18th, it was a shot that you have to play like this.   My lie was okay in the rough but kind of a flyer lie.   I had to play it easy and it was the perfect shot.   But I couldn't hit this one shorter than this, so I was not expecting that.   But birdie was‑‑ I mean, I deserved to do birdie because I played so many good shot before and didn't make birdie.   
   
 Q.   Some of the French players tell us that they feed off the energy of the crowds, and others say they feel the weight of expectation and pressure on them.   How is it for you?  
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   I feel more the expectation and a little bit pressure from the crowd, because I especially want to do well for them, more than in other tournaments.   That's how I feel.  
   
 Q.   You are a very private person, a quiet person and normally don't enjoy the press stuff that we have to do with you.   Yesterday you had a 45‑minute press conference with some kids.   You must have enjoyed that.   
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   Yeah, yeah, I like the media.   I feel very comfortable with the media.   It's only two media in France that I'm not comfortable with at all.   I don't speak to them because they did very bad things to me those few years.   They did a few articles on my personal life that really hurt my entourage and my family, so I just don't talk to them.   But with the other media, I'm always very pleased to talk.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT