ISPS HANDA PERTH INTERNATIONAL
October 22, 2014
Victor Dubuisson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  OLIVIA MCMILLAN:   Victor, welcome to the Perth International.   Thanks for joining us.   How are you liking Perth so far? 
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   I just arrived yesterday, but the hotel is really good and the course is really good. 
OLIVIA MCMILLAN:   You played the course today.   What did you think of it? 
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   I think it's a (indiscernible) course.   I need to have a good strategy, because can be some pretty tough pin position.
So, yeah, it's a short course.   If you miss on one side of the green, yeah, you have to make up for that.
OLIVIA MCMILLAN:   Questions. 

Q.   A lot of people are picking you to win this week.   What do you think your chances are?
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   I don't know.   I will just try to do my best, and if putting is good I can win.

Q.   Do you like it when you go in as one of the favorites?   Do you enjoy that position? 
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   Yeah, it's better to be one of the favorite.   But, you know, yeah, as I said, I will just try to do my best.

Q.   How much confidence does the Ryder Cup performance you put in give you going into this week?
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   It's match play so very different, but, yeah, I play well that week.
But, you know, golf, it's never the same.   You play well and the week after you play really bad.
But my game is okay now, so, yeah, hopefully I do well.

Q.   What do you see as the key to your game this week?   What is the most important thing in your game?
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   Every part of the game is very important.   What makes the difference is always the putting, I think. 

Q.   You were looking forward to the Ryder Cup, I know.   How great of an experience was it after building up to it for such a long time in your life?
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   It was a great experience.   I think it's the greatest tournament, the best one in the world, so I was very pleased to be part of the team. 
I am working hard for it, so was a great experience. 

Q.   And I think Graeme gave you a fair bit of praise.   Did that put more pressure on you, or did you already have that pressure on yourself?
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   No, I don't have pressure on myself.   I just play golf.   I just try to do well and I don't have any pressure, no. 

Q.   I know you love fishing.   Are you going to fish at all while you're here, or do you have to leave soon after?
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   No, I have to leave on Sunday night to Shanghai. 
But, yeah, I would love to try fish here.   But with the jet leg lag, now I start to feel really tired, so not easy to do in the afternoon. 

Q.   Why did you decide to come to this tournament and Perth?   What were the main reasons for coming here?
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   Last year I played the final series that started with Shanghai.   When I got there, I spend a terrible week because of the jet lag. 
So this year I decided to make a better preparation for this.   Playing this tournament I think was a good thing to do.   I watch it on TV last two years, and it looked to be really difficult. 
I saw a lot of player struggling, so I thought this could be a very good tournament to play. 

Q.   What do you make of the strength of the field and the players that come here? 
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   It's a lot of good players.   Jason, Charl, and also a lot of the player from the European Tour. 
You got some players who played a lot in the States, and are just at the limit of qualifying for the final series.   This is the last tournament before that. 
I think, yeah, the field is really good and there are some good ranking points as well to win this week.
I think we are maybe six players in top 50 in the world, so good points to have. 

Q.   You spoke about the jet lag.   How are you feeling now and how do you think you will feel for the rest of the week? 
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   In the morning it's fine; start to be difficult 2:00, 3:00 in the afternoon.
But I will try to don't‑‑ try to stay awake as long as I can, and maybe by tomorrow ‑‑ I play at 8:00 am, so think will be okay.   But now it's only the afternoon that it's hard.

Q.   When did you arrive in Perth?
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   Yesterday afternoon. 

Q.   And how long was the flight? 
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   It was 22 hours.   Long flight.

Q.   Is this the longest flight you've ever had to get to a tournament?
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   Yeah, I played a few times in Australia.   Few times.   Played four tournaments in Australia already. 
Yeah, this is the longest you can have.

Q.   When you flew to Australia last time and you had to play... 
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   It was the Royal Melbourne last year, the world championship, world team championship.   I played okay.   It was the same type golf course with hard and firm greens, a lot of bunkers. 
I played okay, but I didn't manage the jet lag very well.   So trying to do better this week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT