THE RYDER CUP
September 27, 2014
Victor Dubuisson
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Victor, amazing display of golf from you, first time ever in a Ryder Cup.  How are you handle the pressure of this situation?  VICTOR DUBUISSON: I think playing with Graeme, as I said yesterday, really helped me.  I played really well but the big reason why my game was so good the last two days was because I was playing next to him.  He's been fantastic the last four days.  Yeah, today I tried to do the same as yesterday.  Tough conditions, windy, just tried to keep the ball on the fairway and greens.   Q.  You have been a Ryder Cup hero before for Europe, you're a major champion.  What's it like playing with a guy who is a rookie performing so well, alongside you two consecutive days?  GRAEME McDOWELL: It's very easy to play alongside a guy who is as talented as this kid is.  I mean, he's very modest.  He's putting a lot of it on me, kind of giving him the confidence.  I didn't really have to do much with this kid.  I just had to make him relax, make him enjoy himself and just let him go. I've been very fortunate in Ryder Cups, I get to play alongside some pretty amazing partners the last couple of years.  The last couple of Ryder Cups I've had Rory McIlroy, and he isn't too bad.  Victor Dubuisson, I really believe he's the next ^  superstar coming out of Europe.  Watch out for him.  He really impressed the hell out of me the last couple days and he was a pleasure to play alongside.   Q.  You seemed to be in control from the beginning.  Your thoughts on the match?  GRAEME McDOWELL: Like you say, we got off to a nice start.  That's key and something that Paul McGinley was kind of banging into us from the word go this week was getting off to fast starts.  We did that well today.  We were very fortunate perhaps that we were playing an American Team on their fourth match, which there's no doubt, physically, this is demanding out here. Victor and I were very fresh again this afternoon.  We got off to a great start.  We tried to show the guys how energetic and how up for it we were today.  I can't say enough about how good this kid has played the last two days.  He's just been a pleasure to play alongside.  His iron play is as good as I've seen from anyone in a long, long time.  I just had to hit some fairways and make some putts, and it was kind of easy.   VICTOR DUBUISSON: As I said before, Graeme has been fantastic since we arrived here.  And yeah, in the last few months and the last four days, he's been really amazing with me.  First Ryder Cup, I think it's very difficult to manage the stress and being nervous right before the tee.  I really tried to do the best for him the last two days.   Q.  Winning 5 & 4 against Walker and Fowler.  GRAEME McDOWELL: We played very solidly today.  Victor's iron play the last couple of days has been -- I'm not sure if I've seen better iron play consistently.  He really didn't miss a shot, and you know, the way this golf course kind of works out, I hit a lot of the tee shots and did a lot of the putting and I did very little iron play.  Thankfully we got on a run where I drove the ball and Victor's iron play was stunning.  I can't say enough how talented he is.  He really is Europe's next superstar.   Q.  Do you love this role of being the daddy?  GRAEME McDOWELL: You know, the captain asked me to be a leader this week and I really wanted to embrace that role.  He kind of trusted me with Victor.  I knew he was good.  I didn't know he was this good.  You know, whatever small part I've played in kind of getting him ready this weekend, I'm proud of that part. Very hard golf course to get my rhythm the last couple days in foursomes but I hit some decent shots and I kind of hung around and I let this guy go.  What a superstar he's going to be and what a superstar he's been.  If he can win a singles match tomorrow, I think you can say Victor Dubuisson has certainly arrived on the world stage.   Q.  How much did you enjoy that?  VICTOR DUBUISSON: I really enjoyed that.  Fantastic two days.  Playing alongside Graeme was a dream for me.  I've been admiring him for many, many years and I really wanted to do well for him. To have my friends with me, my best friends and my family, it's a good support, and the crowd here has been so amazing.  It's been a fantastic two days.   Q.  Must have been a dream start.  GRAEME McDOWELL: Absolutely.  You don't expect to get away to that kind of start at this level.  The boys, they were playing their fourth match of the weekend.  We were aware of that.  We were fresh.  We wanted to show them how energetic and how ready we were. We got off to a nice start.  We did our job, hit fairways and greens and they made mistakes and we were away.  So it's been a lot of fun playing alongside this guy the last couple days.  Super talented.  Ridiculously talented.  I hit some fairways.  He knocked flags down with his irons.  We made some putts.  We could have made more but it was a lot of fun and just a pleasure to play alongside of him.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT