ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 2, 2014
Victor Dubuisson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  PAUL SYMES:     And your form, how is that coming into the weekend?   Obviously you played very well at the Nordea Masters? 
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   Yeah, I played very well.   It was more than one month ago, yeah. 
PAUL SYMES:   And confidence high coming into the week?   Are you looking forward to it? 
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   Yeah, looking forward to this week. 

Q.   Can you tell us what excites you about the prospect of being in The Ryder Cup? 
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   It would be great if I qualify, yeah, for the team.   The ranking, it's getting tighter.   So the guys behind me are all playing very well.   So I still need to make some more points. 

Q.   But what do you ask about The Ryder Cup?   Have you ever been to a Ryder Cup? 
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   Yeah, I've been to a Ryder Cup. 

Q.   And what did you enjoy about it?   What to you was the most exciting part of it? 
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   There's not really a part more exciting than another.   It's the best event I think a golf player could ever play.   So it's like a dream.   So I cannot really say one part is better than another.   
It's a good challenge on this course.   The last few holes, it's a really tough course.   For long hitter, it can be good. 
So yeah, should be a very good challenge.   The greens are perfect, I think quicker than last year and the condition is really, really good.

Q.   What about you physically?   In Sweden you were struggling with a shoulder injury.   How is that now?
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   It's really good.   I'm not feeling any more pain.   Just sometimes in the morning it's a little bit hurting but it's fine.

Q.   Your profile has changed massively in France since you came here last year, you were 116th in the world and now you're 22nd.   More media, more attention, how do you feel about that?
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   I feel great.   More media attention means you are playing better.   It's very good that people have so much attention.

Q.   You have the support of the crowd, but with that comes expectation.   Do you feel it adds pressure or can you feed off the energy they provide? 
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   No, no, don't really have pressure.   I think you have enough pressure playing on that course.   It's good.   I will enjoy when the crowd is behind me.   Especially here, people are very nice. 

Q.   What about your schedule now?   You can play in America and here and choose where you can go.   What are you going to do for the next few weeks? 
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   I'm going to play in Europe until the end of the season.   I'm not going back, just for the majors, the US PGA.   I will stay here.

Q.   We spoke about what playing in Ryder Cup what mean to you.   What will Ryder Cup coming to France in 2018? 
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   It's something big for France.   A few years ago, we could never believe Ryder Cup could be in France.   Jean did a great job to get the Ryder Cup here. 

Q.   What are your thoughts of playing your National Open?
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   It's a lovely tournament.   The course this year, the greens are fantastic and it's good to have the crowd behind me this week. 

Q.   Do you find it's a lot different playing in front of your home crowds?
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   It can be different, more support here, but no, I don't feel really more pressure. 

Q.   Do you notice that difference from when you were the young player coming out and nobody knew who you were to everybody wanting to watch you now and speak to you? 
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   Yeah, it's a bit different but it's good.   You know, it's what happened when you do something good and I hope I will keep doing like this. 

Q.   How is your hayfever this week?
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   Last week was terrible.   Sometimes I almost couldn't play, and this week it's about the same, same grass.   It's going to be difficult, especially with the weather.

Q.   How does that affect you? 
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   Because of the sneezes, the eyes get full of water.   So it's going to be difficult with hayfever. 

Q.   I know you've been struggling with injury recently.   Are you now fully fit?   Are you recovered from your injury?
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   Yeah, I recovered.   Now I'm all okay. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT