EURASIA CUP PRESENTED BY DRB-HICOM
March 27, 2014
Victor Dubuisson
Stephen Gallacher
Joost Luiten
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   I take it that's a very satisfying way to start this tournament?  
JOOST LUITEN:   Oh, yeah, we did well and we made birdies on different holes and to win on 16, I think we've done a good job there.  
   
 Q.   You seemed to dovetail nicely.   
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   Yeah, it's exactly what happened today.   When I missed, I missed some shots but Joost was there to make the birdie, and I did the same when he was in trouble.   
So I've been very impressed by his game today.   He gave me some good confidence and I hope we can do the same tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   We said in the build up that it's different playing a team event, because you seem to enjoy it; you enjoy that camaraderie there?  
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   Yeah, we enjoy and as I said, it's good that I played with Joost today because he gave me some good advice on the course, and I was a little too aggressive in the beginning of the round.   And then he just told me to hit the fairway and hit the greens and make some good birdie and it's what I did.   
   
 Q.   You may not have seen a lot of it but you almost had the second albatross of the year.   
JOOST LUITEN:   I didn't see it but the pitchmark was pretty close.   Eagle was good enough for today.   
   
 Q.   Nice the way that your partner holed that first one.   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   I was going to make bogey or something like that, so, yeah, it helps when he knocks it in.   We got off to a really good start and just sort of belted on at the end.  
   
 Q.   Helps when you get that start, you just keep it going at a nice steady win, a good, handsome win in the end?   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Yeah, we had a couple eagles and six or seven birdies, as well, and played really good.   Dovetailed perfectly, what you've got to do in four‑ball.  
   
 Q.   Are you getting on well with the course?   It suggests that you are?  
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Yeah, it's a tough course but it's the heat more than anything you need to worry about.   The course is in great condition, but it's fiddly, tough.   
   
 Q.   Some ice around your neck?   Absolutely?   
STEPHEN GALLACHER:   Yeah, I think I've had about 6 1/2 lighters of water hydrating today, so I feel good.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT