WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 23, 2014
Victor Dubuisson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You are through to the final.   Tell me how that feels.   
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   It feels great.   This morning I was not feeling comfortable.   I didn't sleep very well.   And when I arrived at the golf course, I don't know why I realized I was in semifinal of the World Golf Championship against Ernie Els.   I'm a big fan of Ernie, so I have always been watching him winning majors.   And I was not feeling as confident today as the round before, and that's why I had the poor start.   I made like three or four very bad shots.  
Then I tried to focus again in my game and I knew if I‑‑ I knew I had to play my best golf.   It's what I did.   And I proved to myself that my mentality is very solid.  
   
 Q.   We thought one of the crucial turning points was the putt you holed for a halve at the 7 when you were 3‑down.   Is that the way it felt to you?  
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   Yeah, yeah.   You know, from the fifth hole, I knew I had tocount off every putt to come back in the match.   
Then I found the motivation to stay focused.   And as I said, today was a really mental golf for me.  
   
 Q.   You came down the last hole all square there.   How much pressure are you feeling at that stage?   
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   On the 18, I was feeling okay.   The fairways is not very (indiscernible), so I was feeling okay on the tee.   Then the second shot was very tough.   Today was difficult to play the ball on the right part of the green.   I hit a good shot, but with the pressure, with adrenaline, I hit it like two or three meters too long.   I knew I was going to have an impossible putt and this was for birdie, my best shot of the day, the putt on 18, the long putt.   
   
 Q.   No Frenchman has ever won on the PGA Tour.   You have a chance this afternoon to make history.   Talk about that for us.   
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   Yeah, I will not think about that because that is the reason why I didn't start well today.   So I will just have a quick lunch.   
And who am I playing?     Who won the match?   
   
 Q.   Jason Day.   
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   I will play against Jason, very solid player.   I know he's not the kind of player who gives holes, you know.   He never really misses a shot.   So it will be a good afternoon.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT