WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 22, 2014
Victor Dubuisson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  DOUG MILNE:   We'd like to welcome Victor Dubuisson to the interview room after his 1‑up victory over Graeme McDowell.   Congratulations on your victory today.   Comments on your round against Graeme, and then we'll take a few questions.   
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   I played well today.   I knew Graeme was going to be a tough player to beat, but I just played my own stroke play and I didn't watch him too much, especially because when he made birdie‑‑   I mean, he had a birdie possibility on the 3rd and his shot on 4, the par‑3.   So I tried to just focus on my game and I try to make birdies.  
   
 Q.   On the 18th green, were you surprised that the shot stayed on the green?   And talk about your third shot there.   
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   On 18, I was surprised that my shot didn't stay on the green because it was exactly the way I wanted to play it.   I thought‑‑ I was thinking that I pitched it on the right spot, but surprisingly it kind of spin and went back short.   I knew the chip was going to be very tough, but I was confident on my short game.  
   
 Q.   To go back to last year when you won in Turkey, how much of a confidence boost was that for you?  
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   Yeah, it gave me some confidence to win, but‑‑ yeah, it gave me some confidence, but you always want more and more.   In any event there is this kind of stress that because you want more all the time now.   
   
 Q.   It's pretty amazing that you've sort of come into your own here and managed to maintain this same level.   Can you talk about how that's happened for you to go from anonymity to one of the major players on the Tour?  
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   Honestly I don't watch too much around me.   As I say all the time, I repeat, I just play my own game.   And against those world best level here of players, if you don't‑‑ when you are a new, young player, if you start to watch the way the other guys play like Graeme or Bubba, that played yesterday, it can be intimidating.   So, no, I just play‑‑ honestly every day I play my own stroke play, even if the guy make three or four birdies, like Peter on Sunday made three in a row on my second match at the beginning.   
But, no, I just play my stroke play and I know if I play 3‑ or 4‑under, I will be difficult to‑‑ it will be difficult for me to‑‑ I will be difficult to get beat.   So I just try to do my best and just stay focused.  
   
 Q.   For people who haven't seen you play in the States very much here, what's the best part of your golf game right now?  
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   It's probably from the tee, maybe my 3‑wood and driver.   Probably from the tee and my chipping, I guess.   Because I've been working on my chipping here, the beginning of the week on this high grass.  
   
 Q.   A couple of questions.   I'm sorry if this has been asked, but how difficult was the chip on the 16th?  
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   On 16, it was difficult to manage the distance because I had like 35 yards of green to the pin, to the flag.   But, no, on 16 it was okay, not‑‑  
The more difficult shot I had today was on 17.   The chip was just unplayable.   But as I said, I spent a lot of times here around the green playing those big lob shots, because I know here when you miss, the green are very dry, hard.   You can make good shots when you're ten feet out of the green and have just an unplayable shot in this high rough.   So I knew that this week it was going to be, I guess, the key to win some matches, the chipping.  
   
 Q.   I think I read somewhere that Tiger winning the Masters is kind of what got you interested in golf, is that true?   And if so, are there other players, as you were younger, that you looked up to as golfers?  
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   Yeah, when he won his first Masters, this is what get me started to play golf.   
   
 Q.   Are there other golfers that you looked up to as you were growing up?  
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   No, no, just when I was growing up just Tiger.   I was just watching all the time.   
   
 Q.   Have you been around Ernie?   Have you played with him?   Do you know him very well?  
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   No, I know he's a great guy, very nice man.   But I've never played with him before.   He has a lot of experience.   He won so many tournaments and Majors.   And I will just do the same as I did today and yesterday against Bubba and Graeme, just play my own stroke play and don't watch him, don't be impressed.   
   
 Q.   Victor, when you're at home and you're not playing golf, what kind of things do you like to do for fun?  
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   Like any young men do, I go to cinema.   I don't know.  
   
 Q.   What's your favorite movie?  
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   I don't know.  
   
 Q.   When did you get here this week and what was your first reaction when you saw this golf course?  
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   My first reaction was when I saw the greens, it was that this week I would need to be very patient.   Because, you know, sometime you think it's going to be the perfect shot and the ball get a bad catch on the green and a bounce in the wrong direction and you make a bogey.  
I knew I was going to have to be patient on many shots here.   Like if I hit a good shot right at the flag, get a bad bounce on the wrong hill and finish like 20 meters from the hole, just stay patient and stay focused on the game.   
   
 Q.   Did you feel that way on 18 today?  
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   About what?   
   
 Q.   Staying patient and hitting a good shot?  
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   Yeah, yeah, that's why I managed to do a good up and down then because I said, Okay, it's golf.   My shot was not very lucky, came back all the way down.   But Graeme, he made a very good shot and he was also not very lucky that his ball didn't come back.   That's the point of this course.   You have to stay patient.  
   
 Q.   What did you hit on 18 from the fairway?  
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   9‑iron.   I was 178 yard.  
   
 Q.   Do you have any desire to play the PGA Tour full‑time?  
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   I've been dreaming about‑‑ well, a few months ago.   And now I know I can get my card now with the points I made this week and at the AT&T.   So I would have to think about it because I would really love to play here full‑time.   But I will see how I can manage, because I spent five weeks here alone.   So all the peers, they have family here or friends.   So I will see how I will manage this next year.  
   
 Q.   What's been your favorite moment so far this week?   Favorite tournament?   Favorite place you've been before this week?  
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   In America?   I really liked Torrey Pines.   It was special because it was my first PGA Tour event, and it's very, very beautiful course.   The greens were very difficult, very tough.   It was a special moment for me to play this first PGA Tour event.   I always dream to play it.   
DOUG MILNE:   Victor, good luck tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT