ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 8, 2017
Victor Dubuisson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 9-under par round of 63 at St. Andrews.  How special was that day?
VICTOR DUBUISSON: Very special because it was at the end of my season, and yeah, I played amazingly like the rest of the week but today it feels like all the putts went in.  Today I made two long putts and was really solid.  The only regrets I have is I started to think about the 59 on 16 and I had a bad 3-putt.
You know, with everything, with all the putts I made today, it's amazing.
Q. You opened up with a 74 at Carnoustie and shot 19-under for the last three rounds.  Is that basically just down to the putter?  Because your caddie said they had not been going in for eight months and today they all went in.
VICTOR DUBUISSON: Yeah, yeah, the last eight months were like the worst months of putting I've ever had.  I felt like my game was okay, but you know, the putts you make for par don't go in, and then a few putts don't drop for birdie; it turns your round of 68 into 74, 75, all the time.
I don't know, this week was just -- you know, I holed all the putt I missed this year.
Q. Your exemption has run out and you had to come up with something big.  How satisfying to do something big?
VICTOR DUBUISSON: Doing this in St. Andrews on a Sunday, it's really special.  You know, the worst part in it is I realised only at the half of the season that my exemption was up this year.  I think next year I will play much more events and focus more on playing many events in a row to keep the form.
Q. 63 today, how was that?
VICTOR DUBUISSON: It was very special, playing 63 in the last round of the Dunhill, it's something special.
Q. What was the difference between the rest of the week and today?
VICTOR DUBUISSON: The putting.  The putting.  I played really solid all week but today all the putts went in, between three and ten feet, went in.
Q. The week as a whole, how impressed are you with your game and what can you take out of this week?
VICTOR DUBUISSON: I started with a 74 at Carnoustie but it's a tough course with the wind.  I'm very satisfied with the week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT