COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 23, 2013
Victor Dubuisson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What are your thoughts on a round like that today?   
    VICTOR DUBUISSON:   It was a great round.   Had some good up‑and‑downs on the front nine, because it's the second tournament of the year for me and I haven't played for a while so my game isn't really ready yet for this kind of course, but as I said, I need some good up‑and‑down and on the back nine, I hit some good shots.   Really close at the hole.   
    Made four good birdies, finishing with a birdie on 18, which is always good.   For the second round.   I really like this tournament.   I played twice Top‑10.   It's a course I like and I hope I will do better after.   
   
 Q.   Even if your game is not at its very best you have the experience of those Top‑10s so presumably it helps your game and you know what has to be done around here?  
    VICTOR DUBUISSON:   Yeah, I was not playing really good until the 13th, 14th hole.   I know where to miss here, and so I was just playing middle of the green and really save, because those greens are really hard, really dry, especially even this morning, with the humidity, they were really, really dry.   
    So maybe tomorrow I will go for a few flag, depends how I hit the ball in the morning.   But I'm confident for the rest of the tournament.   
   
 Q.   Having got the experience of playing here before, tell us how the weather conditions are different, because the wind can certainly blow and you had a very tricky time to deal with last time, so I assume this is just near flat‑calm?  
    VICTOR DUBUISSON:   Yeah, this is the first time I played with such a good weather here.   I'm not talking about the sun, of course; I'm thinking about the wind.   
    So the course is playing really different.   On a few holes, it really helped, the wind, like the par5, hit a few par 5 in two.   But today without the wind on‑few holes, it was really different, like 16, 18.   
    On 18, I always hit the green in two and today, there was no way.   So as I said, it kind of helped on a few holes, and hurt on a few, but of course, it's easier.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT