ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 4, 2012
Victor Dubuisson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  VICTOR DUBUISSON:   It's very special, I had 10‑under last year in Italy but today I could have done better.   I mean better‑‑ I'm not saying that 10‑under is really bad.   It's the best score I have ever played.   
My game is really, really good, really strong, really solid.   Why I make any long putts.   I think my longest putt was like five metres or something.   I was 11‑under on the seventh hole which was a 16th hole, and I've hit it perfect‑‑ and just like, I don't know, I had a big bounce on the green and a bigger bounce than I thought.   Then I just finished like one metre over the green, like in kind of long grass.   The lie was really, really bad and I had no chip and I made a bad bogey.   
   
 Q.   Well don't concentrate on the negatives because there are so many positives.   
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   You know, when you are 11‑under, you have a few holes to play, you think about the 59.   So I was only thinking about that.   So that's why I was‑‑ after the second shot, oh, no, it's finished now, no 59.   
   
 Q.   Is that the first time you thought about it or had you thought even earlier in the round?   
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   Before I start to think about the 59 I was in a dream like, like what's happening, or not realising.   But when you start to think about the 59, then you make a bogey.   But no, it's really a good start, and tomorrow I'm on Carnoustie, and it's going to be very different.   But my game was solid, so I'm confident for tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   One of those rounds, you say in a dream where you are not entirely conscious of your score, and you think play, play, play, carry on?   
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   Yeah, you just see the flag, you don't see what's around, like the bunker.   You only think positive and I will try not to do the same score tomorrow but to play the same way.   Not going for the flag all the time because it's a different course, but if our long game is as solid as today, I'm really confident.  
   
 Q.   What are your thoughts on achieving it here?   Because clearly the Old Course is an iconic course, it's the Home of Golf?  
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   Yeah, it's the Home of Golf, and yeah, it's a very special course, it looks easy, the course, but it's the kind of course where there are many, many, how do you say, traps.   
So, you know, you can play the same, but it can turn completely in the other way.   Like you can make a few 3‑putts because the greens are really big.   You can hit a good shot, finish in the bunker, and then make two shots to get out because they are so deep.   
And so, yeah, it's a course that you have to be really, really careful on, because the fairways are very big, so sometimes you just don't put 100 per cent of your concentration on the tee shot.   The fairways are so big, you really need to focus and put 100 per cent of your concentration on every shot.   
   
 Q.   How often have you played here?   Presumably you've seen it on TV so many times?  
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   I've played like 30 times here.   
   
 Q.   And you've learned to play it?   
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   Yeah, of course, first time I've played here, I played like really bad score, and now, again, now I know how to play the course, I know when to be aggressive and when to be‑‑ to play more safe.   
   
 Q.   And when you think back to the age of this course, the history of it, the achievements here, a course record is something exceptional, isn't it?   
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   Yeah, yeah, especially on the Old Course.   There are so many people who played here, so many stars and like Tiger Woods, so yeah, it's very special for me to play 62 here.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT