BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
April 29, 2012
Victor Dubuisson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You played extremely solid this tournament, you finish at 11‑under par and that will be third place; how happy are you? 
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   I'm really happy.   I'm very, very happy because as I said in the previous interview, I didn't play that well the beginning of the season.   And when I arrive at the Malaysian Open, I never think about making two top fives.   I know I can do it, but I didn't think I was ready for that. 
This week, it was exactly like last week.   I make some good putts, my game was really solid, not the second round, but the last two rounds.   Yesterday I played maybe better than today, but I didn't make many putts. 
But today I managed really well‑‑ I started with a bogey on the first hole.   Even when you start with a bogey on one of the easiest par 5s on the course, not the easiest, you hit the drive and you can carry the green with the second shot.   And when you start with a bogey and your partner starts with a birdie, you can be‑‑ but my caddie told me, come on, you can make six or seven birdies. 

Q.   You take these two top‑five finishes and now a top‑three finish as motivation and confidence for the tournaments to come? 
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   Yeah, I'm really, really more confident tournament after tournament, and next week I will take like two days off, Monday, Tuesday, and we'll arrive home on Wednesday in Sevilla.   I know the course well because I played like four or five times the Spanish Amateur there.   It's match play, so you play the course like eight times a week.   I think I will arrive on Wednesday because after a month in Asia, I need at least two days. 

Q.   How are you feeling with the way you finished this tournament?
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   Feeling good.   Feeling good.   I missed a short putt for birdie on 17, but you know, I made two or three good like five‑metre putts today, so I cannot say anything.   But I played really good golf all the tournament, not the second round, but it's because of people partying next door all night.   It was really tough to concentrate on the second round.   And you know, playing very early, I was very tired on the course.   I'm not looking for any excuse, but, in fact, I was. 
Yeah, the first round, second round, third round, I played really solid.   Putting was at the rendezvous, as we say in French.   And today, starting with a bogey on the first hole and my partner with a birdie, I was kind of, what is going to happen today; am I going to hit the ball bad.   And then my caddie told me, come on, you can make six, seven birdies, it's no problem, you're hitting the ball really good.   He put me back in the good cycle, positive cycle. 
And then I played really solid.   I didn't miss any greens today‑‑ I hit 17 greens in regulation, a lot of birdie position.   So I'm really happy about today.   

Q.   Are you proud of yourself, as well, because leading the tournament, and then having that sleepless night, falling back, and yet rather like last week, you've got it all back together on the final day and another prominent finish?
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   Yeah, I'm proud of it, because when I'm in‑‑ like when I'm in a good position, in an okay position on a tournament, when I'm around 30th, 20th place, I manage to play well the last round to come back. 
So today that's what I did and I'm very proud of that. 

Q.   Essentially, you've pretty much sorted things out for next year, because on the back of these two finishes, that's a lot of money. 
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   Yeah, the card is done after nine tournaments, so it's a good thing.   It's a good thing. 

Q.   And you can go into Spain with even more confidence. 
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   Exactly, with even more confidence.   It's a completely different course that we play in Sevilla; Wentworth.   So I think I will work a lot on my driving, because here you know you can miss a little bit the fairways because the rough are really small. 
But next week it will be completely different. 

Q.   I heard you say you know that course well?
VICTOR DUBUISSON:   Yeah, I know this course very well, but not in the same condition, because in the amateur tournaments, we don't play in the same rough.   But I will see next week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT