SAAB WALES OPEN
June 3, 2011
Victor Dubuisson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   VICTOR DUBUISSON: I had a tough start my first nine, because I played really very early and I didn't sleep very well last night. It was not easy to wake up, and I was not hitting the ball really good.  
 But I had six times up-and-down on the first nine, so I was really happy with that and then on the back nine, I started to play well again. And my driving was coming back, like really consistent. And then I made a couple of birdies on the first five holes of the back nine, and one on the 18th.   
 So, yeah, I'm really happy about my round today because it was tough with the wind.  
  
  Q. The wind has picked up considerably. It's lovely for us wandering around, and you've just got the shirt on, lovely sunshine but it's awkward, isn't it.   
 VICTOR DUBUISSON: It's lovely sunshine today but this morning when I woke up, it was windy, really windy outside. You know, I was thinking like yesterday, I mean, before sleep, I was thinking, it's good, because tomorrow, there will be no wind in the morning, and if it starts to blow in the afternoon -- so maybe I have a chance to make a low score and let the people do what they have to do in the afternoon.   
 But this morning, the wind was blowing so, so strong, I think even stronger than now. Really, on the first hole, I hit a good drive and then 4-iron, and yesterday it was drive and 8-iron or something. Yeah, it was a tough day.   
  
  Q. Kind of just hope that the wind stays up now that so everybody experiences the same?  
 VICTOR DUBUISSON: Yeah, I hope it's the same for everybody, because you know how it is in Britain, sometimes the wind blows in the morning and then it stops in the afternoon. And then you play the next day and it's windy in the afternoon and not in the morning.  
 But no, I think it will stay the same, and even with no wind, the course is really tough. So I will wait to see what's happened this afternoon.   
  
  Q. And you've got a fight with hayfever, as well. You sound like you're struggling today?  
 VICTOR DUBUISSON: Yeah, I've been really struggling yesterday and especially today, because of the wind. I think it's because of the grass, I have big allergy, and sometimes I have to wait like two minutes to play a shot, because I cannot open the eyes. I will ask the doctor if I can take a tablet. I will stay with that for the weekend and try to play well with this.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT