SAAB WALES OPEN
June 2, 2011
Victor Dubuisson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Talk about just how well you played after that blistering start?
 VICTOR DUBUISSON: I played very well today. I had a bad injury a month and a half ago, so I didn't really play. I came back in Spain but it was a bit too early and I played very bad. 
 Had the chance to play this PowerPlay on Monday, I played really well and it gave me back a little bit of confidence. I watched Graeme McDowell play, and it's a course he knows very well, because he won The Ryder Cup here, and the Wales Open here, so I took a little bit of his strategy on the course. It's important just to stay on the fairway, because a lot of courses, we make low score, and event, if the weather is okay, so it's what I try to do and it's worked pretty well.

 Q. Played that PowerPlay event and played it well, because you seem to be driving consistently, always finding those fairways, presumably that experience just helps when it comes to this event?
 VICTOR DUBUISSON: Yeah, exactly. As I played good in the PowerPlay event, I think I'm more confident now in my game than I was before I started to play after the injury. And yes, I think it's all in the head I think really, and now I am playing much better and I hope I will keep going like this the rest of the week.

 Q. Your form was getting good and you were having some good days; but what happened? 
 VICTOR DUBUISSON: You mean, the injury? Yeah, I played good the beginning of the year, and I mean, the first tournament I played was good, but then, yeah, the injury, it was really, really bad. 

 Q. What did you do? 
 VICTOR DUBUISSON: What do you mean? 

 Q. What happened?
 VICTOR DUBUISSON: It was just a staff I will low staphylococcus, and it's an injury and stayed in the hospital for a few days, and then I had to wait to play golf for a month. 
 So it came at the wrong time, because for me I started the season really, really good, and played good in Qatar and Dubai, and now, yeah, it's not easy to come back on the game. I feel a bit fine again, confidence. 

 Q. And do you have to be careful about your back?
 VICTOR DUBUISSON: No, the headache is not finished, but I can play 18 holes easy. I mean, I didn't play more than a round -- but on the course, I'm focusing on the game and everything so, I don't really think about my injuries. 

 Q. Presumably the doctor in the hospital gave you some advice and told you what you should do, what you shouldn't do?
 VICTOR DUBUISSON: Yeah, they said I can start to play normally now. Of course, I cannot walk like for seven hours in a row, but 18 holes, it's okay.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT