100TH OPEN DE FRANCE
June 29, 2016
Victor Dubuisson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PAUL SYMES: Victor, many thanks for joining us.  Welcome to The French Open.  It's the 100th edition this year and you're playing with Rory in the first two round, so you must be very excited about getting started.
VICTOR DUBUISSON: I'm very happy to be here this week, especially for the 100th year of the tournament.  Great field and very glad to play with Rory tomorrow.
Q. You played pretty well at the event last year, so how does experience of Le Golf National help you when you tackle a new tournament?
VICTOR DUBUISSON: It's a tough course.  Every shot you miss is, I mean, it's at least a double-bogey here.  It's a lot of pressure on this course, and you know the scores are not going to be very low.  Just focusing on hitting the fairway and greens.  It's just the most important.
Q. Do you like that kind of challenge?  Do you like that style of golf?
VICTOR DUBUISSON: Yeah, yeah, of course, I like this challenge.
Q. You've been playing on the other side of the world; you've been playing in Japan, so I gather that went pretty well and the form is good?
VICTOR DUBUISSON: Yeah, the form is good.  Played well last week.  Could have done better but didn't in the last round but Top-10 is good.
Q. How is the recovery time to come from the other side of the world to play here?
VICTOR DUBUISSON: It's okay.  Just feel a little bit tired at night but during the day I feel good, so it won't be a problem for the week.
Q. How is health at the moment?  We haven't seen you playing a lot over the course of the season and certainly haven't seen you up on the board many times?
VICTOR DUBUISSON: I didn't play really well since the beginning of the season, but, you know, that's golf.  I feel like I'm playing better now.  My driving is really good, so then it just about putting.  You never know, sometimes with golf, you just have a good event and sometimes you're not playing well for a few months, so just have to be patient.
Q. But after last week, is the confidence up again, and with an awful lot to play for?
VICTOR DUBUISSON: I can't say the confidence is back again but it is a good result, and now I have three big events coming, so it can be a good touch for the season.
Q. Could you explain why you played so few tournaments this year?
VICTOR DUBUISSON: I don't think I've played many less events than the other guys.  When you see the number of tournaments, I may be two or three or four behind, but not that much.  I mean, I played -- I don't feel like I haven't played that many, I don't know, certain number of events.  Like if I played only six or seven tournaments, I don't know, I look at the schedules -- I think I'm only two or three tournaments behind the guys who played a lot.
Q. Have you had an injury?
VICTOR DUBUISSON: No, no.  I was fine this year.  Some little trouble sometimes but not any specific injury.
Q. Can you just talk about the Olympics and your thoughts on that?
VICTOR DUBUISSON: My thoughts on just the tournament?
Q. Everything that's going on and your thoughts about participating?
VICTOR DUBUISSON: Well, I think it's a great event.  I had some look at the course on pictures and look great.  But you know, I can understand the concern of the Zika virus for some players, because I think the course was built on the swamp, so it's outside of the city.  But, I mean, I think the organization made everything -- I mean, I don't think the organisation will let the tournament happen if there was a huge risk.  I think it will be fine.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT