PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 11, 2011
Jeff Coston
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. When you came out today did you expect to be one stroke ahead of Tiger Woods by the end of the day?
 JEFF COSTON: Well, no, I don't even know what Tiger Woods shot, but man, he's a great player. He's always been a nice guy to me honestly. So I just want to play Jeff Coston golf. I didn't quite do it, but hit some good shots, made some mistakes I don't normally make, and I usually hit a lot more fairways. I struggled doing that today, and I made some silly errors, and I finished strong, so I was happy about that. But I'm just really happy at age 55 to be able to play in this golf tournament, and some of my best golf is ahead of me.

 Q. How did the course play?
 JEFF COSTON: You know, it's a hard golf course. You know coming down Sunday afternoon it's going to be really fun for people to watch those last five, six holes. You know, anything can happen that back nine. It's a really wonderful golf course, and when I was on the Tour I lived in Orlando so I love the South, I love southern people, and I love golf, so I'm just happy to be here. But it's a very difficult golf course, and I look forward to playing tomorrow.

 Q. Talk about the whole experience coming from a Club Professional Championship to the PGA Championship. 
 JEFF COSTON: Well, you know, I played the Tour before most of you guys were born. I played the Tour in the '80s and played the Nationwide Tour in the '90s, and I've had a golf academy the last 17 years. It is really a nice thing for me. I've had an amazing week, just not only the golf and seeing people, making new friends, and it's been a great week for me. Couldn't be better. I hope maybe I play a good round tomorrow would be fun.

 Q. Home away from home almost?
 JEFF COSTON: Yeah, I enjoy the South very much, always have. 

 Q. What's your plan of attack for tomorrow?
 JEFF COSTON: You know, I would like to play Jeff Coston golf, one hole at a time, clear and committed and drive it in the fairway and just go for it and see what we do. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT