SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 27, 2007
Jeff Coston
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  2-under today. 
 JEFF COSTON:  2-under today. 

 Q.  You had a kind of up-and-down round today.  Tell me how it went out there? 
 JEFF COSTON:  If I could like skip No. 1, 2, 3 the last couple days, I might be moving here.  You know what I mean.  I might move here.  But you know like -- honestly Dudley and I worked really together today.  Had a good plan and he helped me a lot today, that's number one. 
 And then we had some fun and made some connections, so that was good.  Looking forward to seeing my wife and kids, that's good. 
 But started to play like Jeff Coston, that was a lot more fun.  So really enjoyed that.  I liked that last shot on the last hole and up-and-down on 17 and made a putt that was pretty quick on No. 16. 
 So I made some putts.  I'm going to have to bronze that putter.  My friend Mike Adams gave me that putter I'm going to have to give him a call and say thank you. 

 Q.  What does it mean to you to play well this week? 
 JEFF COSTON:  Obviously anything -- I mean -- it means a lot.  Because basically the PGA Championship, whether it's the regular or the senior, it's a great opportunity for guys that are in the program or work for a living.  I mean, it's just a neat thing.  It's a memorable thing. 
 So playing this week definitely would be a memory for me.  And yesterday I was with John and Jessica and I saw this picture like that probably is my favorite picture of me, which it's not saying a whole lot, but favorite picture of me in my whole life. 
 That -- so like this is great because that picture is going to be blown up in my living room and blown up in my golf studio. 
 So, but I just love the opportunity the PGA presents for club professionals, whether it's the senior or the regular, it's a great, great opportunity and I don't take that lightly at all. 

 Q.  Coming here prior to this, tell me about what you think are the top experiences in Majors for you? 
 JEFF COSTON:  In Majors?  That would be like the Washington Open and the Oregon Open.  Well, you know what's interesting, like I played in three U.S. Opens, but in 2000 my son was caddying for me.  And I was like on the leaderboard, Tiger Woods won by a zillion and I was on the leaderboard with some great names, Watson, Faldo, Pavin, Woods.  I was in about sixth place after the first day. 
 So I have that picture in my golf studio, so that's huge.  And finally my son's 19, so he's been caddieing for me since he was 12.  I had a little kid, they thought it was like child abuse.  But we had a good time. 
 But I'm playing the fourth round with Colin Montgomerie, it's Father's Day, in the year 2000, I have a 12 year old kid, and we're on the 18th hole at the 100th U.S. Open at Pebble Beach, and there's a lot of people around, everybody knows my son's caddying for me, there's a lot of stuff going on.  And a lot of people are pulling for me. 
 So I hit this wedge that's kind of like oscillating in the air, on the 18th hole, and thousands upon thousands of people are around this green and you hear this, "roll, roll".  You hear this deafening roar.  And at the pinnacle of the deafening roar my son putts his face right next to mine and he goes, "Happy Father's Day, dad."  U.S. Open.  We did it.  So like that's huge. 
 So, and in fact this whole thing I made, this is the U.S. Open at Pebble Beach with he and I.  I'll give you guys one if you want one.  I gave John one.  Did I not?  So there's that.  And then there's that.  So anyway, so that would be a huge thing. 
 I think another thing was it's not like I played in a thousand Majors.  2004 at Whistling Straights.  Where the Senior Open is. 
 I had a friend caddie for me and I shot 68 the second round.  Which I think was low round or somewhere there in.  I made the cut, I thought I was going to play with Tiger the third day.  I would have been really afraid, and I'm kind of glad I didn't.  But he's a great guy. 
 But, so that was a huge thing, making the cut at Whistling Straights and having the low round or somewhere there in the second day.  That was a big thing. 
 Honestly, this has been a big thing right here.  This is a new chapter in my life.  I'm a fossil and on the wrong side of 50 now. 
 And I'm really probably on the 13th hole of life.  You know what I'm saying?  So when you realize you're on the 13th hole of life, you don't want to, you know, each day is a gift, right?  I don't always act that way, but I would like to act that way, but I'm learning. 

 Q.  Still keeping fit? 
 JEFF COSTON:  I'm trying to keep fit.  These guys are making me feel young.  These guys have it so good out here.  I go to that trailer twice a day, I feel like I'm 25. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT