SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 26, 2013
Jeff Coston
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Well, did we play Jeff Coston golf today?  
JEFF COSTON:   Front nine.   I was doing my thing and all that kind of jazz.   
And the back nine I would have to say, no, I struggled ‑‑ I'll just try to remember the front nine and all the nice people I met and the great golf course and all that jazz, right?   So that's where I'm at.  
   
 Q.   Great start, birdie on 1 and 4.   You had things going there early on.   
JEFF COSTON:   It's a great golf course, it rewards really good golf shots.   And I felt like I hit a lot of really good golf shots and was doing my thing and I was really happy about that.   
I made a couple mistakes and here I am.   
   
 Q.   What happened on the back today?  
JEFF COSTON:   I could have driven the ball a little bit better.   So ‑‑ and then I didn't play the last hole poorly, I hit a really nice drive on the last hole and my ball released up that hill and that was a difficult first putt.   I would like to have made the second putt.  
   
 Q.   Talk about your experience in these four days here.   
JEFF COSTON:   I made some good friends, met a lot of nice people.   Got to reconnect with some people that I don't see much.   There's a lot of great people in golf.   
So I'm really appreciative of the PGA for the opportunity to play in this event.   It's been neat.   I played in both the regular and the senior last couple, three years.   So it's kind of neat for a broken down old club pro.  
   
 Q.   The amount of times you get in competitive experience, for at least 54 or more holes, you're pretty solid out there.   About 63 holes you were pretty solid.   
JEFF COSTON:   Thank you.   
   
 Q.   On a positive note what would it mean to be the low club professional of this tournament?  
JEFF COSTON:   Fortunately, I was the low club pro in 2007.   It's a great thing.   There's a lot of great players in the world.   There's a lot of great players that are club pros and there's a lot of great players in this golf tournament, obviously.   And I just am thankful for the chance to be a part of it.  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT