SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 25, 2013
Jeff Coston
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   So was today Jeff Coston golf?  
JEFF COSTON:   What?   
   
 Q.   Was today Jeff Coston golf?  
JEFF COSTON:   Oh, not as much as I wanted it to be.   It was crazy, you know, things were fine and then they had the rain delay, right?   And I was in the fairway on number 4 in the rain delay and the group behind me, Tom Watson and the other guy were like right there.   So it's like we all kind of got behind.   And I felt man it was like a track meet there until a hole like 15 or 14.   It was like, whoa.   So I couldn't really get the rhythm I wanted.   So that was challenging for me.   
   
 Q.   You had 10 1‑putts today?  
JEFF COSTON:   Did I?   I like that.   I'm going to remember that.   
   
 Q.   Was that in a result of scrambling?  
JEFF COSTON:   I can't even remember, man.   I can't even remember.   I pitched the ball really well.   So that really helped me a lot.   I pitched the ball really well.   So I had a lot of probably five footers for par and stuff like that.   I made all those.   
   
 Q.   Back‑to‑back birdies, 16 and 17.   Tell me a little bit about those two holes.   Especially 17.   
JEFF COSTON:   Well, 16 was like the wind's blowing pretty good, it's 204 yards to the hole.   Right?   And it was like, man, the wind's blowing hard, I can't get a 4‑iron there.   And my next thought was my 5‑wood.   So I pulled out that 5‑wood, choked up on that puppy and carved it in there and I birdied it yesterday also.   So, man, I might need to play that hole every day.   So, yeah, that was serious.   
Then on 17, I hit a drive kind of in the 18th fairway.   Don't tell anybody.   But so it's like, I get a drop because of all the restrooms and things like that and I said, man, I'm going to hit it down the fairway.   And so I thought I would do this and be able to hit it over the trees.   And my lie was so bad I had to hit it under the trees.   And I thought it's going to take a half hour to remove all those poses.   So I thought man I'm going to go for it.   And I hit it up there and about six feet from the hole.   So people went crazy and that was a lot of fun.  
   
 Q.   And a great save on 18 to end your round.   
JEFF COSTON:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   That was a heck of a shot?  
JEFF COSTON:   That's right, man, we ought to have a short game clinic or something like that.   Put it on video or something.  
   
 Q.   Sitting in 21st place, how are you feeling going into tomorrow?  
JEFF COSTON:   Again, I just want to play Jeff Coston golf and hit some fairway, hit some greens, and do my thing.   Like play golf like it doesn't matter.   21st doesn't matter, 1st doesn't matter fiftieth doesn't matter.   That's been my thing this week.   How would you hit this shot if you didn't care so much?   How would you hit this shot if it didn't matter?   That would be a different approach to the game, rather than trying so hard, right?   I think most golfers try too hard and take too long and I'm trying to just react to the target and take less time and have more fun.   
When I was on the TOUR I didn't do that so well, so that's what I'm doing to teach my students, I talked to one of my students last night on the phone, a wonderful girl golfer who is going to play college golf next year and she finished third in the state high school and she's better than the scores she shot and called her on the phone and said, hey, you know what, I'm just pretending like I'm playing with you on Saturday morning and trying less and playing to play great rather than playing to not play poorly.   And I had another one of my girl students who is going to the same the university next year.  
   
 Q.   Where?  
JEFF COSTON:   Western Washington University.   And so she texted me and said, hey, I'm in the last group, I'm three shots back, and I texted her back, I said well, and it was during the Washington Open on Wednesday, I said I'm in the last group and I'm three shots back, but I'm just pretending I'm not in the last group and I'm not trying to win the tournament, I'm just going to go play with you on Saturday morning.   Play like it doesn't matter.   And so I think that that's important for everyone.   Whether you're a playing in your club championship or your best ball or playing in your husband and wife whatever, it's just that is huge.   And that would be something that I wish we all had a pill to take for that.  
   
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT