SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 24, 2013
Jeff Coston
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Well, 2‑under entering the weekend.   How are you feeling?  
JEFF COSTON:   I feel with my fingers.   No, I'm just kidding.   No, I'm excited and happy.   And I played in this tournament regularly, and it's really nice of the PGA of America that they give us a chance, for club pros to play in this golf tournament.   I played the TOUR and I had my golf academy up at Semiahmoo up in Blaine, Washington for 19 years now, so I haven't played full‑time in 19 years, but it's fun to get the opportunity to test yourself.  
   
 Q.   How does it feel to be in contention heading into the weekend?  
JEFF COSTON:   I like that.   I like that a lot.   I'm not really worried about that.   I'm just trying to play some golf.   Just trying to play Jeff Coston golf.   
What was fun for me too is the uniqueness of this is Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday of this week was the Washington Open, right?   So I played in that Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday.   I flew out here on the 12, played practice rounds on its 14th, 15th.   Flew home.   Taught for the week.   Played in the Washington Open, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday.   Flew in, got here Thursday morning, teed it up yesterday morning and, boom, here I am.  
   
 Q.   How are you feeling?  
JEFF COSTON:   I'm 30 from the neck down, man, I just look like my grandpa from the neck up.  
   
 Q.   Talk about your game and how it's coming together going into the weekend.   
JEFF COSTON:   Well, I have friend caddying for me, he's been my friend since about 1980, he's caddied for me at TOUR school start engine 1987, we kind of hang out here, so it's been fun to have him on the bag.   And I was low club pro in 2007 at Kiawah, so I just want to keep doing my thing.   
   
 Q.   Ocean Course round?   You were the low professional?  
JEFF COSTON:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   Is it similar?  
JEFF COSTON:   No, it's different.   Totally different.   I'm in better shape.   No, I'm just kidding.   Nothing is of the same.   Golf is not the same, you know what I mean, so I just am enjoying the experience and playing golf.   That's basically it.   Nothing bigger than that.   
   
 Q.   I was out there watching you on the final hole.   You look like you're just having a good time out there, enjoying yourself.   
JEFF COSTON:   That would be a goal.   That would be a goal.   That would be a goal.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT