U.S. TEAM OLYMPIC TRIALS: SWIMMING
June 27, 2012
Ryan Lochte
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
RYAN LOCHTE:   Felt pretty food.   We didn't really try to pick it up until, like, the last 75, so I'll save that for the Olympics.   It was a good race; it was fun.   
   
 Q.   You said it was going to be a dog fight.   
RYAN LOCHTE:   Oh, yeah, and it was, yeah.   I love that race.   I love racing against him, AND it was really fun.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
RYAN LOCHTE:   I mean, all I could see was just Phelps, so that's all I really saw the whole way.   
   
 Q.   Looks like you had him, and he came back in the last 25.   Did you expect that last spurt from him?   
RYAN LOCHTE:   Oh, yeah, no matter what, I could be a pool length ahead of him, and he'll still be there at the end.   He's a great racer, and it was fun.   
   
 Q.   Talk about the quality of the race and the pure competition.   
RYAN LOCHTE:   Anytime you go up on the blocks, especially racing other U.S. swimmers, it's going to be a race.   
There is not‑‑ you're not going to be out there ahead and just be by yourself.   Like I said, yesterday, it was going to be a dog fight.   
And I knew it was going to come down to the very end.   It was definitely a good race.   
I'm happy with the time, and hopefully in London I will be a lot faster.   
   
 Q.   Take us through the last 50 and trying to chase him down.   
RYAN LOCHTE:   We didn't really go out fast.   Kind of like semifinals where he waited toward the end.   So I know what I really need to do in London, so I will definitely change that.   
   
 Q.   If you could do something differently, what would you change?   
RYAN LOCHTE:   Actually going out faster.   I think I was just really relaxed for the first 125, and then the last 75 I was like, all right, now we got to put it in gear.   
So I kinda waited a little late, but I'll take it.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
RYAN LOCHTE:   I didn't start out so good there.   It was really easy; I thought I was going out for the mile.   
I was just not trying, and then the last 75 it was like, all right, I've got to put it in gear, and by that time it was a little late.   I know what I did wrong; I just waited too long, instead of going out faster.   But I have another month to make sure I get that race down.   
   
 Q.   Were you feeling fatigued this morning, is that why you didn't go out fast?   
RYAN LOCHTE:   No, I don't feel fatigued.   I'm probably going to get faster every day coming.     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT