U.S. TEAM OLYMPIC TRIALS: SWIMMING
June 25, 2012
Ryan Lochte
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Ryan was asked about the group and Peter and Elizabeth and himself and the training regimen. 
RYAN LOCHTE:   There is not much to say, we trained really, really hard this whole year.   We have a great group at the University of Florida, probably one of the best in the world, and we have one of the best coaches, and I mean, like I said earlier, this is our time.   We definitely put in the work and I guess we're just ready.   We just went out there and we started together and we were a team, we're feeding off each other and helping each other out throughout this meet. 

Q.   What does it say about Coach Troy and the success that the team has had? 
RYAN LOCHTE:   Like I said, I think he's one of the world's best coaches.   We have one of the best programs, and it definitely showed tonight.   We're going to carry the energy that we created the first day and keep it going throughout the rest of the meet. 

Q.   Please comment on Conor Dwyer. 
RYAN LOCHTE:   One of the things about Conor is he's not afraid to race us, me and Peter.   The people that have been in the Olympics and had gold medals, he's not afraid to race us in practice and I think that helped him out that last 200 in that 400.   He's been in our faces every day in practice, and definitely it showed.

Q. Talk about being faster and whether there is room for improvement. 
RYAN LOCHTE:   That time was not good at all, I know I'm capable of going way faster.   There is definitely a lot of places during that race where I knew I could go as faster, I just didn't.   But, I mean, I had to do what I had to do to get on the wall, and hopefully that will change in a month. 

Q.   Did you expend too much energy in that last race knowing what you have this week? 
RYAN LOCHTE:   I definitely didn't expend too much energy because of the background I have keeping me going in multiple events.   I'm entered in 11 events and I'm swimming so many every day and we're going to pick and choose day‑by‑day and tomorrow I know I have the 200 Free so I'll take each day at a time. 

Q.   (Questions away from mic).
RYAN LOCHTE:   It's a rivalry that we have had for almost eight years now and we just have been switching back and forth.   It's hard to say who is the best swimmer, because we're both great racers, and we have been going back and forth for so long it's hard to say. 

Q.   Do you feel you needed to make a statement? 
RYAN LOCHTE:   I don't think so, I just wanted to go out there and win.   I wanted to get on the Olympic Team.   Now that that happened, I can sit down and take a deep breath and relax.   Now I can just do what I love to do and have fun and just race. 

Q.   Talk about Peter Vanderkaay and training with him over the last year or so. 
RYAN LOCHTE:   He moved over for the past two years.   Peter is probably the hardest trainer I have ever witnessed.   The days where he feels not good, he still has somehow kicked all our butts in practice.   He's always there, he's always in your face, it doesn't matter if it's a breaststroke or backstroke he'll still about there.   He's a racer, and I think that's one of the great things that we have developed at the University of Florida with Troy is we all know how to race.   Peter has been doing a great job this year and I mean, he showed it tonight. 

Q.   Talk about the moment with your mom and she was more visible tonight than she usually is. 
RYAN LOCHTE:   I walked down that podium, I heard her, and I saw her, and she was bawling her eyes out and I was like "Mom!" She is definitely not afraid to show her emotions, and she said "Thank God you made it so we're not going to London by ourselves!" It's nice to have her there.   My nephew, my sister, my family, almost my whole family is here except my other sister, so it was definitely good to have them there cheering me on. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, Ryan and congratulations.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT