U.S. OLYMPIC SWIM TRIALS
July 1, 2016
Ryan Lochte
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We are joined by Ryan Lochte, 11-time Olympic Medalist, headed back to Rio in the 200 IM where he won gold last year in the World Championships at Kazan.  Congratulations, Ryan.  Tell us about what this event means to you.
RYAN LOCHTE: You know, being I guess, the world record holder, it means a lot.  But, you know, I think the thing that is the best about this is the rivalry we have between me and Michael.  I mean, we have been going at it for about 13 years now, and the journey -- like I said, the journey isn't over yet.  It's been a long journey, but it isn't over; we've still got another month to put everything together and really give the world a show.
Q. Ryan, what was it like going through this week and obviously you don't want to just make the team as a relay member and finally making the team in an individual event?
RYAN LOCHTE: You know, this Olympic Trials hasn't been really great for me.  Pulling my groin in the very first event in the 400 IM kinda started off really bad.  But, you know, I was able to put my head into the meet and, you know, whether it's one event, eight events, it doesn't matter, going to the Olympic Games and representing the US is a dream come true, and I'm definitely really humble and had excited.
Q. Ryan, you've been to four Olympic Trials now where Michael has beaten you in the 200 IM, and he's done it in three straight Olympics.  I'm curious how you stay positive.  You will get one more chance in Rio to touch the wall before him.
RYAN LOCHTE: Thank you for sharing that!  (Laughter.)  You know, it's just -- I love the sport.  I love stepping on those blocks.  I love that excitement of stepping on those blocks and proving to not only yourself but the world that you are one of the best, and that excitement is what keeps me going day in and day out, and just that rivalry that we have created between me and Michael is amazing.
We push each other, and, you know, that challenge of getting on those blocks and racing against him is, like, a thrill, so I'm definitely looking forward to that again.
Q. It looked as if maybe 25 meters to go you were head-to-head with him.  Did you have that sense?  Did you have a sense of what happened in the last little bit?
RYAN LOCHTE: I think we were head-to-head the whole entire race.  He was right next to me, so I was able to see him the whole way.  Before going into that event, I knew it was going to be a dog fight.  He wasn't going to let up, and I wasn't going to let up and just the race to the finish.  We both did what we had to do, and we got a spot on the team in that event to represent the US at the Olympics.
Q. Ryan, in the moment, are you able to appreciate the level of competition you two guys have had in this event?  Is there one 200 IM between the two of you that stands out as the best?
RYAN LOCHTE: I'll answer your second one, first.  You know, the one that -- the 200 IM racing against him that stands out the most would have to be when I broke the world record back in 2011, just something that was unexpected, that got people excited for me.  Being able to do that and get a world record definitely was a dream come true.  But, you know, racing against him is fun!  You know, this one event the 200 IM is one event that between me and him we're always neck and neck, no matter what.  It's always a fight to the finish, and I think it's one of the most exciting races to watch and probably will be one of the most exciting races to watch in Rio.
Q. Ryan, was there a point at anytime early in the week where you thought there was no way I'm going to be able to do three 50 Breaststrokes with the way you were feeling?
RYAN LOCHTE: You know, after the 400 IM I thought I wasn't going to be able to finish the entire meet, but, you know, I try to keep a really positive mind.  I got with the trainers, just massaging it, working it out, just trying to make it feel better every day, and it started healing up a little better and better, and then once the 200 IM came, doing breaststroke, it kind of went backwards, but I mean, I had to!  I've trained so long and so hard for so many years that I wasn't just going to give up just because of my groin.  I mean, I could have a broken leg, and I would still go on the blocks and race.
I got about another month to really make it better and, you know, just have a better race in Rio.
Q. And quickly, what do you think the Japanese will think when they see these two times?
RYAN LOCHTE: Hopefully I think they're going to be scared!  I mean, it's no secret that we're going to be there towards the end.  We've been -- I think the Japanese, everyone, Brazil, Hungary, we've all been racing against each other so many times that we know it's going to be a dog fight till the end.  The US is not easy to beat, and we're going to definitely prove that in Rio.
Q. (No microphone.)
RYAN LOCHTE: You know, sometimes I think I wouldn't be the swimmer that I am today if I didn't have Michael, like what Michael said when we were on the pool deck, we both push each other, and we both bring the best out of each other, so I can't say that I would be here today if it wasn't for him.  I mean, like I said, we both push each other, so -- but I know my mentality, I know my desire and my goals that I want to accomplish in the sport of swimming.  It's a 50/50 thing.
Q. Ryan, was the flat tire unintentional?
RYAN LOCHTE: The what?
Q. The flat tire you gave Michael on the walk out?
RYAN LOCHTE: Yeah, I was just really close to him and I accidentally give him a flat tire, and he was like, "Are you trying to mess me up before the race?"  And I was like, "No, no, I was just joking."
But, like, that goofiness, that smiling that we have before the race, before, like, a big event, it's that great rivalry that we have, and it's all fun and games.  But when we step on those blocks, we're racers, and as soon as we touch the wall, we're going back to being our goofy selves.
Q. You've gone through some changes in the last four years, you moved, new coach.  Can you reflect on the last four years and what it means to make an Olympic Team after all?  That and you were talking about training so hard and worked so hard to make your fourth Olympic Team.
RYAN LOCHTE: Uh-huh, the past four years has been a big roller coaster ride, being injured in 2013, moving cities, moving coaches, everything.  It's just been a big roller coaster ride.  You know, I'm happy where I'm at right now, and, you know, like I said, it's my goal, it's the goals that I want to accomplish in the sport of swimming that keeps me getting up every morning, even at such an older age than other swimmers.  I'm still determined and, you know, still have that fire every day, so I think that's what really keeps me going.  Who knows if this will be my last Olympics or not.
Q. Ryan, our newspaper today is a picture of when you visited our school when Caeleb Dressel was 10, with Caitlyn being 12.  Do you sense you are a part of his history in where he is today and where you have been?  It's the ascension of a young gun.  I don't know if you remember visiting our Saint John's Country Day School?
RYAN LOCHTE: Oh, yeah, I remember that.  I remember the coaches saying watch out for this kid; he's going to be great.  You know, just seeing him progress throughout the years and especially when he went to Florida, just that improvement that he's made, it's definitely -- it's amazing.  Once a Gator, always a Gator.
Q. Have you always kept an eye on him, I don't know from that day or as he ascended into high school, won six or seven state championships, you're like, gosh that guy is coming after us?
RYAN LOCHTE: Oh, yeah, by all means.  You're always looking out for the rest of the swimmers and seeing how everyone is doing.  Like I said, just seeing the improvement that he's done, especially in the last couple years, it's amazing!
He's not done yet.  He's going to only get faster, and I'm just excited to just watch it.
Q. I would like to know honestly, what was the first thing you thought when you touched the wall and when you saw that Michael won?
RYAN LOCHTE: First thing I thought was it was a good race, and when I knew -- when I looked up and saw that I was second, I was like, you know, at least it's not in the Olympics.  I still have another month to really tweak some things in the race and just hopefully become better.
Q. We went through this four years ago with it being the last race between you and Michael and of course Michael came back.  Can you share what your emotions were when you knew he was coming back and you knew you were going to get another opportunity to race him and if it's different for you saying goodbye this time?
RYAN LOCHTE: You know, after 2012 I think I was the first person to say that he was going to come back and I just knew it.  But, you know, this time it's different.  I remember when we -- just now we just touched the wall and, you know, I looked up and I saw that I got second, but I wasn't really thinking about that, I was just like -- I kinda was looking at him and being like, wow, like, our journey is coming to an end.  Racing against each other for 13 years, it was like -- it was really sentimental.  It was something that I'm definitely going to cherish for the rest of my life is racing against him and, you know, we bring the best out of each other.
And looking at him, I'm like, wow, this is our last time racing against each other on US soil.  It was definitely really something that I'm going to take to heart.
Q. Ryan, in your first Olympics 12 years ago you raced the 800 Free Relay and you raced the 200 IM.  We talked about things coming full circle racing Michael, but now it's the same program, the 800 Free Relay and the 200 IM.  Talk about what it means to be back that place so much further on in your career.
RYAN LOCHTE: It's definitely weird because the past eight years I've been doing so many different events and going to a swim meet and swimming four or five events, and now going to the Olympics and only swimming two events, it's weird.  But, you know, it reminds me of back in 2004; I had the same schedule there.  I'm a lot faster, so I don't have to worry about doubling up in any events this next Olympics, so it should be fun.  I'm excited.
Q. Ryan, what is it like for you to see Michael, your peer, on the pool deck with Boomer?
RYAN LOCHTE: Well, I've only seen pictures of them two together.  I haven't seen them face-to-face, but I'm dying to wait to meet Boomer and, you know, I think it's great!  You can definitely see a difference in Michael this past year, past year and a half.  His overall attitude, he's just in a much happier place, and I'm definitely really happy for him and you know what, just knowing him and being around him for so many years, he's definitely going to be a great father.
THE MODERATOR: Thanks, Ryan, appreciate your time.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT