U.S. TEAM OLYMPIC TRIALS: SWIMMING
June 29, 2012
Ryan Lochte
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   (No microphone.)
RYAN LOCHTE:   I'm putting all my marbles in that basket, so I just got to wait and see. 

Q.   Have you made up your mind about what you are doing when the Games are over? 
RYAN LOCHTE:   When they're over I'm going to take a deep breath and relax, probably for like a week or two, and then I'm going to get back in and get back at it again for another four years of training. 

Q.   A lot of swimmers are born in sweats and that's all they wear.   You have emerged as the Michael Kors of the swimming world.   Seriously, fashion is important for you, yes? 
RYAN LOCHTE:   Yeah.   Michael Kors, I don't know about; I think Ralph Lauren, that's a better suit for me.   It's just my personality I'm not afraid to go out there and show everyone who I am. 
I mean, you get a lot of swimmers that are just straight arrow, eat, swim, sleep, but that's definitely not the case with me. 

Q.   Do you think it's because when you're in the water you're an anonymous guy except for the number on the lane and when you're out of the water you can show who you are? 
RYAN LOCHTE:   I mean, everything I do is a little bit a part of me. 
Swimming doesn't define who I am, it's just something that I like to do.   I'm okay at it. 

Q.   You're more than okay. 
RYAN LOCHTE:   And outside of the pool it's just me.   It's me, having fun, living life. 

Q.   Do you think you would ever want to be in fashion design? 
RYAN LOCHTE:   After‑‑ when I hang up the Speedo, it's definitely something that I really want to get into and get involved with. 

Q.   Shoes part of the game plan? 
RYAN LOCHTE:   Oh, yeah, I love shoes.   I have so many pairs of shoes‑‑ yeah, I want to design my own clothing line.   Everything from hats all the way down to shoes. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
RYAN LOCHTE:   I think I have a lot left.   Those were pretty, I would say, solid swims.   There is a lot of things that I did during the race that I knew I could have done better.   So, I mean, I'm going to go back, take a look at the video and see what exactly I need to change, and hopefully have better races tomorrow. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
RYAN LOCHTE:   Well tonight was‑‑ seems like every time I do those doubles, it gets shorter and shorter, resting room.   So I think tomorrow I will only have about 15 to 20 minutes, but you know what?   I'm up for that challenge. 
I mean, it's something that I've been doing for four years now is challenging myself, so I'm definitely ready. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
RYAN LOCHTE:   The what, 200 Back?   Oh, the 200 IM?   I had to do what I had to do is get my hand on the wall first and get a spot for finals, and that's all I had to do.   Tomorrow it's going to be a dog fight. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
RYAN LOCHTE:   A what? 

Q.   (No microphone.)
RYAN LOCHTE:   It's his birthday tomorrow?   Well all right!   (Laughter.)   I don't know.   I'll have to think about it tonight. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
RYAN LOCHTE:   No way.   Breaststroke I try to stay away from.   I was surprised that I had a solid swim.   I mean, it's something that I've been really working on ever since my knee surgery is working on my breaststroke, making sure it's down pat. 
I'm definitely pleased with how I swam tonight, but tomorrow it's definitely going to be a dog fight. 

Q.   What can we expect tomorrow night? 
RYAN LOCHTE:   You know what?   I'm going to have two races for sure, hopefully three, and I'm going to take each race at a time. 

Q.   Are you inspired by the way Missy did her back‑to‑back, 200 Free/100 Back?   You got your 20 minutes the same as she did? 
RYAN LOCHTE:   Oh, yeah, she is a beast.   If she can do it, I can do it.   I definitely know I can do it.   I've put in the training.   I've done a lot of things in swim meets or in practice that helped me out to do those doubles.   I've just got to, I guess, hope for the best tomorrow. 

Q.   What's the story behind those shoes there? 
RYAN LOCHTE:   I don't know, they're different and hopefully they give me wings tomorrow because I'm going to need 'em. 

Q.   Do you wear those a lot? 
RYAN LOCHTE:   No, not really.   Just on the pool deck.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT