U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 29, 2009
Charlie Holland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   CHARLIE HOLLAND: Well, started off a little shaky. I hit my first fairway on 7, I think. I was two down through 3, but I knew I was okay. 
 But got down -- at 5 and 6 and I was four down and I was starting to get worried. I was all over the place, missing fairways and greens, missing putts. 
 Just wasn't my day. Didn't play great. He hit a lot of great shots and a bunch of putts, and he deserves it.

 Q. What's it like when you played so well to this point and you're now to the stage where things are really in line and you can't get it where you want it to be? What do you do emotionally in your head to try get it back?
 CHARLIE HOLLAND: It's pretty frustrating. Not much you can do. I just got flat out beat. I did the best I could and fell short today. Wasn't my day.

 Q. Knowing that you struggled so much throughout the year with the swing, and to make it to the semifinals at the amateur, is there any positive you can take from this?
 CHARLIE HOLLAND: Definitely. Definitely this week was awesome. Like I said earlier, my ball striking wasn't on and I got this far, so it was pretty good. Just wish it would have been better today. 

 Q. When you get down like this in a match, what goes through your mind? Is it still fun out there?
 CHARLIE HOLLAND: Yeah, I mean, after I got down 5 it was just like, All right. I have go for everything. There's not a lot of holes left to play. It's not a good feeling. 
 I mean, 2 or 3 down is okay, but once you get 3, 4, 5 it's tough to come back. Made a good birdie on 10 to get four down, and he made a 20-footer on 11 for birdie. 
 I mean, and then 13 I made birdie but I was still 4 down and 5 to play. I mean, couldn't do much. Hanging on. 

 Q. No. 9, you had a short putt. I'm not sure, what was it, three feet? 
 CHARLIE HOLLAND: It was probably four feet and I pushed it pretty bad. My putting was awful today. I made one putt on 12 which was about 12 feet for par. That was it. I missed everything. Some of the were good putts and lipped out, but most of them were just not very good. 

 Q. Did you have a good warm up session and couldn't bring it to the course?
 CHARLIE HOLLAND: Well, warm up was okay. Driver wasn't great, and it stuck with me the rest of the day. 
 Putting's been fine. I've been putting great all week. I don't know, just got out there and couldn't make anything.

 Q. Do you think it was more a case of not playing so well, or was it anything that he did that maybe tilted the match? 
 CHARLIE HOLLAND: I don't know. I was getting pretty frustrated after missing so many fairways and greens that I was just scrambling so hard. I wasn't able to get it going like I have earlier this week. 
 Just couldn't get it up-and-down and the putts weren't falling, so...

 Q. How much do you think what you did this week - I mean, obviously you're disappointed today - but what you accomplished this week is gonna he help you when you go back to school for your final season? 
 CHARLIE HOLLAND: Definitely. I mean, like I said earlier, this whole summer has been a lot better. Close to playing really well. Even though I felt like I did not have my A game this week, I got this far. 
 We've got a good team, so next year should be fun. Pretty excited about it.

 Q. Is Southern Hills is the kind of course when you're down in the match you have opportunities to make up holes, or once you're behind is it just really, really tough to come back?
 CHARLIE HOLLAND: Um, well, when you're playing (indiscernible) and you miss shots it's really kind of hard. I guess you got to hit the fairways out here, and greens out here, and he was doing both. 
 I had to make birdies to win holes. I think he only made two bogeys today. Not much I can do. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT