U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 28, 2009
Charlie Holland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome the first 2009 US Amateur semifinalist, Charlie Holland from Dallas, Texas, who is winner in 19 holes over Peter Uihlein. 
 I guess we should probably go through the thing that's gonna make you smile a little bit. Tell us about the second shot you hit on the first playoff hole.
 CHARLIE HOLLAND: Well, I just hit one on 18 from about ten yards and chunked it short right of the bunker. So I don't know, I was feeling good over that shot. Wind was a little right to left. I just don't know why, I just felt really comfortable. Hit it great, started trickling down.
 THE MODERATOR: For the record, what's your distance?
 CHARLIE HOLLAND: 172.
 THE MODERATOR: And what club? 
 CHARLIE HOLLAND: 7-iron.
 THE MODERATOR: And your distance from the hole when it finished? What would you say?
 CHARLIE HOLLAND: How close was it? 
 THE MODERATOR: Yeah.
 CHARLIE HOLLAND: Probably two inches or something. 
 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Charlie.

 Q. What were you thinking coming down the last hole? Were you at a distance that you really liked? 
 CHARLIE HOLLAND: Well, yeah, I saw he was in the first cut. I know the greens are getting so firm so he couldn't spin it as much. I knew I was in the fairway and I could throw one in there close and put some pressure on him. 
 He didn't hit the greatest shot, so...

 Q. What about the putt on 18?
 CHARLIE HOLLAND: Yeah, I took my hat off and I was ready to shake his hand. I was hot and I thought it was done, yeah, no question. He putted good all day. We both made a lot of birdies. But, I thought, yeah, it was done.

 Q. Given that, do you get a lift from that? Is there a like a little psychological boost that you dodged a bullet?
 CHARLIE HOLLAND: Definitely, definitely. 

 Q. How far was your putt on 18? How far was his?
 CHARLIE HOLLAND: His was probably 15 feet or so, probably ten feet. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 CHARLIE HOLLAND: My caddie just told me, You're still in it. Be patient and stay positive.

 Q. How would you summarize this match? It went back and forth. 
 CHARLIE HOLLAND: Yeah, it was a battle out there. He's a good player. He got off to a slow start and I made some pars and then kind of it flipped, and then it flipped again. It just kind of went back and forth the whole day. It was some good golf out there.

 Q. When you made the turn, 10 and 11 seemed to be your good holes. What is it about those hole that you like?
 CHARLIE HOLLAND: I don't know, they kind of fit my eye. I mean, I missed the fairway on 10. Hit a great shot out of that rough and landed on the right side of the green and kind of trickled down about five feet and he 3-putted from like eight feet there. So that was big.
 And then 11, it was only a 9-iron. It was pretty short, so hit a good shot in there about eight feet or so and made that one. 
 Yeah, every day I (indiscernible) on those holes. I guess I like those holes.

 Q. The last two years you've won from behind and lost while leading. You led early. Did you... 
 CHARLIE HOLLAND: I actually did. It crossed my mind. Yeah. But then I was back down, so I was like, Okay, I'm back in the comfort zone. 
 No, I mean, if I'm down through 10, 11 I'm fine. I mean, even 12 or 13 it's no big deal. I didn't really push or anything. I just know it's gonna come.

 Q. (No microphone.)
 CHARLIE HOLLAND: Well, like I said yesterday, I knew I was close. It was coming together. Hopefully this week it comes together. It's come together so far. 
 But, yeah, it's taken time, but it's paying off. 

 Q. How big of a difference, if you look at the bracket you see the quarterfinal and the semifinal, that little space on the page, how big of a difference is it for you to know you have advanced to the semifinals?
 CHARLIE HOLLAND: It's awesome. I'm, pretty proud. It's great honor. I just gotta keep to go doing what I'm doing. I'm trying not to really think too much about that kind of stuff, because that's what I did last year. Last year kind of helped me for this year to think about that kind of stuff. So just trying to stay in the moment, one shot at a time. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 CHARLIE HOLLAND: No, always do in match play. I just hang in there. Yeah, I don't know why. I've never had a match where I've gotten really beat or I've beat someone really bad. I don't know what that means, why. 

 Q. That means you're playing some good people out here. 
 CHARLIE HOLLAND: Yeah, definitely. I am playing some good people.

 Q. Has anybody asked you about winning the first few holes? 
 CHARLIE HOLLAND: Yeah. Well, I just made two pars. We both just kind of -- we both hit bad drives on 1. We were about 150 yards apart from each other. I made a good up-and-down there. And then 2 he made another bogey. He missed the green. 
 But I knew I needed to keep in it. Then I missed like a two, three-footer on 4 for par. Then the lost the next three holes, so I was like, Oh, gosh. But actually I knew I was fine because I'm always down.

 Q. (No microphone.)
 CHARLIE HOLLAND: That's honestly one of my main things: I did not want to go back to school. (Laughter.) I'm being dead serious.

 Q. The stretch where you lost the lead, were you thinking, uh-oh?
 CHARLIE HOLLAND: I mean, I was rolling good. I've been rolling good all week. I knew they would fall at some time, so I didn't get really upset. It sucked, but I knew I was gonna start make the putts. And I did. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 CHARLIE HOLLAND: Depends on my schedule. I don't know.

 Q. How about the long matches you have, do you think it's an advantage because you're used to it and conditioned that everything is a tight match? 
 CHARLIE HOLLAND: Yeah. 

 Q. Maybe you're more comfortable than the next guy. 
 CHARLIE HOLLAND: Yeah, I guess I wouldn't know because I've never really done the other way. I guess that's how I do it. I mean, I wish I could put them away. I want to win 8 and 7 or 6 and 5. But I can't do that, or haven't done that. 

 Q. But it might be an advantage for you. 
 CHARLIE HOLLAND: Yeah, definitely. 

 Q. How many folks were out there, friends, family?
 CHARLIE HOLLAND: A bunch of guys came up this morning, probably 15 guys, friends, family. But, yeah, I could tell there's different roars when I made one and he made one. It was really something. You could tell there was a lot of guys pulling for him. 
 So it was awesome out there. It was a great crowd. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 CHARLIE HOLLAND: A little bit. I mean, I haven't really thought about it. Just been sticking to my own game and not really thinking about it. I guess so. 

 Q. You bet Hoffman and you beat Tim. Can you just talk about the level of competition in the last three days that you've faced? I mean, could it be much better? 
 CHARLIE HOLLAND: Not really, Chris Ross, the guy I played yesterday afternoon, he's a phenomenal player. Yeah, I've run into some good players and beaten them, which is good. 
 Yeah, I mean, everyone is good really out here. If you make match play you're playing good, so...
 THE MODERATOR: Anything else for Charlie? Congratulations.
 CHARLIE HOLLAND: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT