SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 6, 2008
Demetress Adams
Ilona Burgrova
Susan Walvius
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		   THE MODERATOR:  Coach, we'll ask you for an opening statement and we'll take questions for the players and they can take off and we'll do questions for you. 
 COACH WALVIUS:  Opening comment, you have to give Florida a lot of credit.  I thought they came out and played absolutely fantastic today.  They were extremely aggressive offensively.  They made it difficult for us to feed our post play, which was our game plan today, and you've got to give them a lot of credit. 
 We are hoping that we're going to have an opportunity to continue our season and feel like we've -- we're hoping that we've got an opportunity to play in the WNIT, and that's what we're talking about now in the locker room, just continuing to hopefully have the opportunity to continue to play basketball. 

 Q.  For both of you, first half you go to the locker room and realize you've been out scored by their hot shooter 19-17.  A little disheartening she was able to get going that early? 
 DEMETRESS ADAMS:  Yeah, it was a little disheartening, but our team has been a team that has been able to fight back whenever we got down, and I think we did a good job this time in trying to fight back and just to shore up those errors that we made to get those shooters over it. 
 ILONA BURGROVA:  I don't have anything else to say. 

 Q.  Did they give you any different looks than they did in the regular season? 
 ILONA BURGROVA:  What do you mean by different looks? 

 Q.  Did they surprise you with anything? 
 ILONA BURGROVA:  I think that this game they were able to run a little bit more than they used to in the games before, but otherwise I think they played the same game.  They just were successful with it. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you, players.  Questions for Coach? 

 Q.  How tough when you're shooting poorly in the first half to see someone get hot and put you in hold the way she did? 
 COACH WALVIUS:  It did seem like everything they shot went in the basket.  They're competitors.  It says a lot about them to come out and play the game the way they did today.  Their system didn't change in this game, but they were much more aggressive within their system in this game today.  I thought they did a great job, not only offensively, but they did a much better job defending us this game.  They did a much better job on the boards this game.  Typically we are a good rebounding team.  Typically we are a scrappy team and they were able to get to the rim at will and score or get fouled, and I thought they had an excellent game plan and I thought they executed it well. 

 Q.  When Marshae picked up her second foul early on, did you think you'd be able to open up a big lead there? 
 COACH WALVIUS:  No, Florida has got a lot of talent, and one of the things Florida does extremely well, as well as anyone, is attack the rim with penetration.  I thought the players that they had come in the game, I thought they did a great job for them, especially on the defensive end.  I was hoping that maybe we could get a little bit of a rebounding advantage at that time, but that didn't seem to go in our favor.  Again, I thought Florida looked absolutely great today. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Coach, thank you very much. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT