SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 2, 2006
Susan Walvius
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 COACH SUSAN WALVIUS:  I'm really proud of what our team has accomplished this season.  Our players have really worked hard.  They've done a great, absolutely fantastic job for us.  Had an opportunity to challenge and finish fifth in the league, ended up with a tough match-up against Auburn today. 
 You know, I was concerned about this game because I know how strong Auburn is defensively.  We came into this game I think No. 1 in the country field goal percentage defense.  I think Auburn came in in the top five or they definitely were in the top 10. 
 Very strong defensive team, especially in the paint, which is the strength of our offense.  So I knew it would be a good match-up.  We got some shots that we wanted.  We couldn't get our shots to fall.  In our last six or seven games, we have averaged over 50% from the floor.  We've shot the ball extremely well.  We did a better job today taking care of the basketball.  We had 19 offensive rebounds today. 
 If you look at our stat line, we have an opportunity to shoot the ball 10 more times than a very good Auburn team, you think we walk out of here with a W.  We could not get shots to fall today.  I know that became very frustrating for our team. 
 You have to give a lot of credit to Auburn.  I thought Auburn played a great game today.  I was very impressed.  I thought they did a great job attacking the rim, I thought they did a nice job feeding inside, they stepped out, hit outside shots.  They shot a higher percentage on our basketball team than most teams we've played against this year.  Just really all the credit goes to them. 

 Q.  What do you think your chances are now for an at-large bid? 
 COACH SUSAN WALVIUS:  I hope the NCAA committee will take a good hard look at our basketball team because, again, you're going to have days where you don't have a great game, and we had one today.  We didn't play well. 
 Certainly we've got to give Auburn some credit there.  But we have, and we have finished our season strong.  We have played -- we're again No. 1 in the country as far as field goal percentage defense, we have a very good basketball team, we finished 7-7 in the SEC.  We beat Minnesota out of conference.  We beat Florida late.  Florida goes on to beat LSU and beat Tennessee.  We have a great basketball team. 
 You know, I hope the NCAA will take a look at that. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT