TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 7, 2019
Broderick Washington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








UTEP - 3, Texas Tech - 38
Q. On that sack, what did you feel from the offense and defense from that sack and starting off as you guys did last week?
BRODERICK WASHINGTON: I feel like it really just set the tone, really and just put everybody in their mindset to dominate, really. That's pretty much it.
Q. I guess early on what did you see from UTEP that allowed you to be successful against them, forcing those seven straight punts?
BRODERICK WASHINGTON: I guess because we knew it so well. We seen everything they did and so it wasn't a surprise on the field and throughout our preparation, we saw everything that they did multiple times. So when we saw them lineup in certain formations, like we already knew what was coming, so it was just the preparation, really.
Q. End of the game, Coach Wells said he was coaching you hard because he wanted the shutout. How does that make you feel when you're ahead 38-0, but the coaches are still coaching like it's 0-0?
BRODERICK WASHINGTON: It's just a good thing feeling, really, knowing the coaches want to blow them out as bad as the players do. The whole defense on the sideline and our mind-set was just keep that goose egg on the board and finish them off, really. It was a good thing feeling, really.
Q. UTEP was 2-15 on third down conversions. What made you all so effective on third down?
BRODERICK WASHINGTON: I give credit to our preparation, really, because I mean, without doing the stuff that we did throughout the week, we couldn't have been ready for some of the plays they wanted to run.
But it's all in the preparation, really.
Q. How confident are you that you can carry it over when the competition gets stronger?
BRODERICK WASHINGTON: I feel like as long as we keep doing what we doing, taking it one week at a time, really and not getting too far ahead of ourselves and just trying to go 1-0 every week, and focus on that one team, whoever we got that next week, I feel like we can go pretty far, really, and just taking it one week at a time being where our feet are.
Q. What did Coach Wells show you that you liked that made you buy in? You've always been a guy that's very invested, but when you're a senior and you have a coaching change, what did you need to see from him to feel good about being part of this program?
BRODERICK WASHINGTON: Really, I just wanted to see something different. Honestly, like just have a coach that is really going to try to discipline us and make sure we're doing everything right, honestly, and I didn't want to leave Tech. So I always been a guy that regardless of how things are going, and whether it's good or bad, I was going to stick it out to the finish. I didn't have plans on leaving nowhere, so it was just easier for me, really.
Q. What do you like most about him or what he's brought here?
BRODERICK WASHINGTON: So the discipline factor and then just holding everybody accountable and not letting us be satisfied with like success, really and just always pushing us to be better than we was the day before, the moment before, or just pushing us, really, and being honest with us. Kind of hard to explain, but if you've been around him and seen him, like everything he says, he means it. He's consistent. That's pretty much it, really.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT