TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 8, 2018
Broderick Washington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How did you use the bye week for yourself?  
BRODERICK WASHINGTON: I used it to work on like little small things that I felt I need to get better at.  But, honestly, I used it to take care of my body more because first couple games kind of just rolled through.  Takes a toll on your body a little bit, so really just used it to recover.   
 Q.  Coach talked about finishing during the off-season.  How have you focused on starting fast during this bye week, because I know you said that was a big focus for you all to learn on offense and defense?  
BRODERICK WASHINGTON: Really we've just been coming out, firing on all cylinders, trying to anyway, from the start.  As soon as we touch the field, really.   
 Q.  -- those slow starts to defensively or was it a multitude of things?  
BRODERICK WASHINGTON: Could you say that again?   
 Q.  When you watched those slow starts on tape, was there something you could attribute that slow start to or was it just a multitude of things?  
BRODERICK WASHINGTON: Honestly, I really don't know because it seemed like we always were where we were supposed to be.  Just I don't know if we're thinking too much a little bit at the beginning or what it is, really.   
 Q.  What have you noticed on the tape about TCU has really stuck out to you?  
BRODERICK WASHINGTON: Their O-line is pretty physical.  They've got good skill guys, good quarterback play.  Overall they're a pretty good offense.   
 Q.  The quarterbacks, is it a little tougher that you have to potentially prepare for two different ones since you don't know who is going to start for them?  
BRODERICK WASHINGTON: A little bit.  Just because we don't really know if they want to do the same things they do with 3 as they do with the back-up guy.  We don't know if they want to use them the same way.  Other than that, we're preparing for 3 to be the starter so.   
 Q.  Do you lick your chops when you see a mobile quarterback or do you grown a little bit?  
BRODERICK WASHINGTON: I guess I get excited a little bit for the challenge, I guess.  Knowing that he's not scared to run at me or anything like that.  So I guess it gets me excited.   
 Q.  Just for you personally, what do you feel you learned from that loss to West Virginia.  But how do you feel the defense has played in the first five weeks and what did you learn from West Virginia?  
BRODERICK WASHINGTON: Playing against West V, in my own opinion, it taught me that as a team we've got to start fast.  If we put four quarters together, we can beat anybody.  That's just how I honestly feel.   
 Q.  I guess with TCU, I know you said the line's physical.  Does that get the defensive line fired up a little bit, because it could be a battle between the two lines there?  
BRODERICK WASHINGTON: Yes, sir, it does.  Because especially you know somebody's not going to let you punk them, it gets you fired up.  In practice you know you've got to bring it, and the scout guys are going to bring it.  We'll be well prepared for it because we practice physical against each other all the time.  So it's just another day, really.   
 Q.  Without giving anything away, how do you handle the type of running backs they have?  They've got some guys that can go at you or they've got some guys that can run away from you with the speed?  
BRODERICK WASHINGTON: We haven't really seen any downhill running backs really.  But we've seen the guy that's will jump cut from one gap and go all the way across and stuff like that.  So we're prepared for that.  Really just the physical, downhill part, we see that in our running backs every day, so we're prepared for it.   
 Q.  How do you handle it mentally as a defensive unit when you get off to those slow starts?  What is the challenge of mentally getting through that and getting past that?  
BRODERICK WASHINGTON: Really we just try to keep everybody locked in.  Regardless what happens, we've still got to get out there and play the rest of the game.  So you might as well just forget about the last play, and just keep going.   
 Q.  What does Coach Jamison do with you guys on the sideline when you do get off to a slow start like that?  What is his message to you guys?  
BRODERICK WASHINGTON: Just stay calm, keep playing, really.  He does a good job of keeping us like together.  Like when things are going bad, say, for instance, somebody on D-line, say myself, for instance.  Say I mess up and get out of my gap and mess somebody else up, when we go to the sideline, he'll just be like, he'll say something about it, talk about it, get it out the way, and he'll be like next play, we've got to keep it going regardless of what happens.   
 Q.  You mentioned earlier how important the bye week was for you to get your feet back under you.  How important is the timing of this for guys like T.J. and the quarterbacks coming off some injuries?  
BRODERICK WASHINGTON: It couldn't have come at a better time, really.  We've got a lot of guys that's banged up.  And honestly, the bye week was a good thing for us, especially with it being where it is for this seven-game stretch that we've got.  It will help us physically and mentally.   
 Q.  People often mention you and Dakota as the most vocal guys when it comes to the halftime locker room.  In the past two games and as PG a way as possible, what is the message you try to send, and why do you feel yourself that you should be responsible for taking a vocal leadership role?  
BRODERICK WASHINGTON: Really, the message is just keep fighting.  No matter what's going on, just keep fighting.  Then once we go in at halftime, it's really just reset.  The things that happened in the last two quarters don't really matter anymore.  We've got to go back and fight for however long it takes to put us in the best position to win the ballgame.   
With me saying something, I feel like a lot of the guys on the team look at me as a leader, so I feel like just me saying something will get everybody back calm, and like, okay, let's go.  We've got to refocus and get back in the groove.   
 Q.  How do you think this defensive line has progressed this year, all the guys in general?  
BRODERICK WASHINGTON: Honestly, those guys have been busting their butts.  Now we're at a point to where we can rotate like every series and stuff like that.  So you're going to see the guys out there for the whole game.  Lot of those young guys are starting to get more game reps, so the growth in our room is pretty amazing, honestly.   
 Q.  Really important question here.  We don't get to ask you these questions.  What do you think of the uniforms this week?  
BRODERICK WASHINGTON: They're nice.  They're really nice.  I saw it this morning after practice that we were going to wear all white, and a throwback all white, and I kind of got excited for that.   
 Q.  What do you remember from last year's game against TCU and some things you want to work on with that?  I know it's a year later, but it's still a lot of the same guys.  
BRODERICK WASHINGTON: Really just recovering those turnovers.  When they put the ball on the ground, we've got to get it and put the ball back to our offense.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT