SAN DIEGO STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 24, 2017
Rashaad Penny
Nick Bawden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SDSU - 35, New Mexico - 10
Q. I know you still have one more game left, but just seemed like yesterday you were doing your thing to go there, excels I don't remember stadium?
RASHAAD PENNY: That's like four years ago.  That was a high school, that was amazing.  I really thought coming in here I wanted to be a player that contributed to this offense and do whatever it takes to win.  But playing a big key role in this offense is amazing.  I can't thank this guy so much offensive line and offensive coordinator for putting me in the right situations and doing everything they can to just let me spring free and not just run.  But, yeah, it's amazing.
Q. Four years ago when you stepped foot on campus, what was the one thing you wanted to accomplish by the time you ended your career here?
RASHAAD PENNY: Just to win as many games.  I hate losing.  Just win games and see where it goes from there.  But when you put yourself into a program that you think is going to be so (inaudible) and down the line in the future you have challenges, big things will happen.
And this program, we turned a lot of things around.  Behind Coach Long it's simple.  Stop the run and we run the ball.  And that's something we've been -- we've been that way for the last three years to even just win ten games and can't thank them enough.
Q. You've always been such a humble guy, putting others in front of you.  But just talk about being overwhelmed, in a positive way, with all, even being in the same sentence as Heisman, Doak Walker and all the other awards and then the school and NCAA records that you've either tied or broken.
RASHAAD PENNY: Can't do that without great coaching or great guys around you.  And honestly don't even look at them words like that because I'm not big on them.  I'm in a group of five.  I say that every time because it's true.  They're going to overlook me.  They're going to overlook anybody in this group of five league.
It's just something that you have to deal with.  And it's motivation basically for a lot of group of five players to go out there and prove to everybody that you can play.  Because that's how I feel it is.  I feel you just can't play on a higher level.  Really can't just -- I really can't say much, that's how it is.
Q. What did it mean to go over 2,000 yards today?
RASHAAD PENNY: I wasn't even thinking about it.  I was just running like I always do out in the field behind my guy, Nick, and a big offensive linemen.  And it's a blessing, though.  I think everybody who has been a part of it and it was fun.  And I got one more left.  So I can't wait?
Q. Couple teammates wondered if you might be running angry this week.  Was that any factor?
RASHAAD PENNY: I mean no, because -- just go out there and play the same way I've been playing for the last, how many, 12 games?  Yeah, 12 games I played.  Just go out there and have fun and try to win.  That's the whole motto.  And whatever happens after the game happens.
Q. What will you miss the most about playing in this stadium?
RASHAAD PENNY: Man, these fans are great.  I mean, they're not with you when you're in your lows, but they're with you when you're at your highs.  But, man, they showed the support this season.  It was amazing.
They have truly lifted us in a lot of different ways and we're so thankful for them.  But miss the most is these guys, just being around them and stepping out on the field Saturday night.  It's going to be different waking up next week not playing on a Saturday night.  But that's just how things work.  But I'm going to miss these guys so much because I've been through a lot with them for the last past four years.
Q. Nick, what was it like to play with this guy?
NICK BAWDEN: It's incredible.  The way this guy comes up, comes out at practice every day, shows up.  He's a great leader.  He works his tail off every single day no matter what.  If he's in a bad mood, you'll never know.  It's just an honor to be in front of this guy and blocking for him.  Just everybody on our offense loves blocking for him because he's such a great guy.  It's easy to see.  It's easy to say.  There's no lies there.  Just a great dude all around.
Q. Being so humble, are you ever in a bad mood?
RASHAAD PENNY: No I don't know.
NICK BAWDEN: I don't think so.
RASHAAD PENNY: I'm always smiling.  Even when I fumble, it's not a good thing, but I smile because you got another play, another opportunity.  It's a turnover but you just can't look back on things, can't let things affect you.
It's just all about how you overcome adversity.  And that's what I've been taught here with these guys.  When I have these great teammates on the side, trust me, I'm always smiling.
Q. Nick, so much made of Doak Walker and things like that, and people say it doesn't bother Rashad.  It's easy to say, but how do you see him handling that?
NICK BAWDEN: It makes me mad.  It makes me mad for him because I know he won't get mad about it.  But I'll get mad for him about it.  But he deserves that award.  It's absurd that he's not even in the conversation.  He deserves that award or the Heisman.
The way this kid has done everything -- kick returns, punt returns, offense, catching the ball -- he can do it all.  It's really incredible to watch him every day.  It's really an honor to be with him be on the side.
Q. Why not get mad about it, Rashaad?  What about you keeps you from getting mad about it?
RASHAAD PENNY: I got these guys.  I got this coaching staff.  They believe in me.  They all know that I'm probably the number one back in the country.  And they know I'm a Heisman winner.
NICK BAWDEN: Yeah, we do.
RASHAAD PENNY: When I have these guys around me that lift me up like that, there's no reason to even think about it.
When I seen the list, I was, like, that's another motivational step.  You just can't get mad.  I'm enjoying this feeling.  I love ten wins over a Doak Walker award.
Q. You made a lot of sacrifices here to be in the position you are in and play the way you've played it, what's the pride level for you?
NICK BAWDEN: I wouldn't call them sacrifices.  I'm having so much fun doing what I'm doing now.  I can't imagine still being at quarterback, honestly.  I don't know what that would be like.
I get to play real football now.  No offense to Chapman.  Chapman is one of the toughest guys on the team.  I get to go around and hit people, man.  I have so much fun doing that.
Blocking for guys like him and Pumph the past couple of years have been a blessing.  Couldn't be in a better position now.
Q. Funny to sit here, look at you, imagine you were ever a quarterback.  Same for you?
NICK BAWDEN: That was a long time ago.  Yes.
RASHAAD PENNY: That's crazy.
Q. What was your motivation after two losses, you guys finished with four wins, from the outside it's like what were these guys playing for, but obviously you guys were playing for something?
NICK BAWDEN: Yeah, definitely.  It starts with our coaching staff.  They never let us get down.  They told us these losses happen but we've got to come back.
We had four games left in our schedule and we were just going to take them one week at a time.  And it didn't matter that we didn't have any rest or anything.  It was just you gotta go now and started with that Monday we got back.  And like I said, it starts with the coaches, just trickles on down through the seniors and through the rest of the players and gotta lead one after the other.
Q. You guys are the ones who have to play, though, and I've seen teams quit when things don't go well.  Why not this team?
NICK BAWDEN: I can say it starts with our head guy, Coach Long and Coach Hall, no quitting on anybody on our team.  And that starts with our offseason training.  It's I think unlike anybody else.  And I think that gives us a head up on our competition for sure.  So that helped out.
Q. What does it say about the team, that doesn't happen, quitting or getting down?
RASHAAD PENNY: When you have Coach Long, you can't quit.  Unless you've been called soft.
NICK BAWDEN: You don't want that.  That's the worse thing you can be.
RASHAAD PENNY: Worst thing.  But we can only control what we can control and that's just taking one week at a time.  Those are two key losses.  I mean, it affected us, but it's just like winning.
We've got to put it behind us.  Like right now we've got a bowl game to think about now.  There's no celebrating for us.  We want 11 wins instead of 10.  That's how it is.  It's just like winning, get over and go to the next.
Q. After seeing Elijah go through his senior night a few years ago at Idaho, did he give you any words of advice or wisdom before today?
RASHAAD PENNY: No, I mean that's what my family just tell me the same thing every day that's just play the way I play.  We've got a big group message and texts me every Saturday:  Play the way you play and just have fun.
Q. What was going on through your mind when you were going through the helmet?
RASHAAD PENNY: It's definitely emotional because you want to stay here forever.  It's like you can't leave these guys.  I mean, you've got people in the locker room who is funny.  You've got people in the locker room always take things serious, and you never have that bond again.  And things are happening in that locker room with them teammates.  It's surreal because you don't want to leave it.
But your time has to end some day.  And it's not going to end yet because I've still got a few weeks left in the locker room but I've got to enjoy my time.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT