U.S. SENIOR WOMEN'S OPEN
July 15, 2018
Trish Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk about how Laura played this week.
TRISH JOHNSON: Absolutely.  Well, to be honest, yesterday's round was possibly the best I've ever seen her play.  She had one poorish drive and one half ropey iron shot off the tee, but every other iron shot was almost perfect.  Strike was magnificent.  It was as good a round as I've seen in a long, long time.  Yeah, no one was touching her this week when she plays like that, and she's putting well.  Very difficult to beat, because she was, as the Americans love to say, awesome.
Q. And you've played with her how many years probably?
TRISH JOHNSON: Oh, God, first time we played I was 13 and Laura was 15, so our first English Girls.  I was the winner, and that was pretty much the last time I beat her.
Q. I know midway through the round, Juli made a couple of birdies, there was a chance that maybe -- any time you get within four or five there's a chance on this golf course if you hit it in the fescue or something, but she just made that remarkable comebacker putt on 10.
TRISH JOHNSON: Yeah, I think that was a major putt to be honest.  I think had she missed that, she might have got a little nervous.  She said coming down, she's not won for eight years.  That's a long time, even for someone as good as she is.  But I think when she made that putt on 10, you see she had a little sort of pump of the fist, which Laura doesn't do a lot, and yeah, that was pretty much in the bag then, I think.
Q. What about your week?  What do you take from it?
TRISH JOHNSON: I take that I did as well as I could with the game I had.  It was probably my C game.  I didn't strike the ball well at all.  I didn't putt that bad, I just didn't hole any putts at all.  But I really struggled tee to green, and if I had my "A" game, I would have been looking to shoot probably somewhere around about 12 maybe.  I'm not sure I could have caught Laura anyway.  But I probably had my B or C game tee to green.  But to be fair with that, I did as well as I could do.  So what do I take?  I take if you play one shot at a time, no matter how bad you're swinging it, you can always achieve something.
Q. And how about just the venue and the fact that this championship is there for you to compete in now?
TRISH JOHNSON: Magnificent.  Honestly, it's one of the best, most enjoyable weeks I've ever played in in any tournament anywhere.  Yeah, and funny enough, even this morning, I was just waiting to come out here, and I just thought, God, not often do I actually think how lucky I am to do what I do because it's hard work.  You know, it's a job like anything else, and it can be very rewarding, but it can be really hard work, as well.  But this morning I thought, my God, I'm actually on Sunday afternoon playing in the last round of the U.S. Open with Juli Inkster and Laura Davies.  It doesn't get a lot better than that.  Of course then I just thought, just go and enjoy myself because everybody would kill to be in my position.
Q. It looked like you enjoyed it out there.
TRISH JOHNSON: I did, yeah.  Like I say, it's not much fun when you're not striking the ball like you'd like to and you can't quite figure out why, but you sometimes just have to grind it out and just realize, yeah, it really doesn't get an awful lot better.
Q. And like you said, Laura just was more or less untouchable --
TRISH JOHNSON: She blitzed it.  She totally deserved to win.  It was great.  I'm chuffed for her because she played that well.  When someone plays that well, she deserve to win.  You don't want to see them throw it away, and not only did she not throw it away, she blitzed the field.
Q. There was no danger there once she turned for home, right?
TRISH JOHNSON: No, what did she win by?
Q. 10, she won by 10.  Juli missed a little one -- that made it 10.
TRISH JOHNSON: That's a pretty decent margin.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT