U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2018
Jiwon Jeon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Talk a little bit about the match today.  Kristen comes out and really played well early in the morning and really got up to a big lead, 7-up at one point.  I know you won the last two holes in the morning.  Talk about how well she played today and how difficult that was to go against somebody who was really playing that well.  
JIWON JEON: Well, she was very consistent all day.  I mean, it was a little difficult for me to catch up on her.  But that is the one I cannot control.  So I was trying to play my best.  I didn't play my best today, but I tried my best on the course.  I really appreciate that she played a great job on the course today, and I'm really happy.   
 Q.  You had a long break of nearly two hours.  You made the two wins to close out the morning.  Did you feel like, okay, I've made a little inroads here, maybe I have a chance on the second 18?  
JIWON JEON: Yeah, definitely, I was very confident because I won the last two holes, and I had good momentum to go into the first hole of the second match.  It didn't turn out that well, but yeah, well, it is what it is.   
 Q.  What did you think you learned about yourself, because I don't know if you've ever played a 36-hole final in your career.  
JIWON JEON: Yeah, I've played a lot of 36 before, like as a stroke play --   
 Q.  But I'm talking about when it's head-to-head, a long 36-hole day.  What did you learn about your game, yourself that maybe you can take forward to the next time you're in that situation?  
JIWON JEON: I mean, today I was thinking I just have to practice all my putting a little more.  All my shots have been kind of on and off a little bit.  But I just need to work on more my long game, my whole game honestly.   
 Q.  I guess Kristen was your host at your recruiting trip.  Talk about that.  Did you form a friendship with her when you first visited?  
JIWON JEON: Yeah, well, we only have a few days to actually like stay together, so we didn't get too close to get to know each other, but I think she's a really sweet girl, and she's a great golfer, too, and she's a pretty smart student.   
 Q.  Did you ever see her play before you got out and played with her today?  
JIWON JEON: Well, not really.  I've seen her on TV when she played in the Japanese tournament, the Japanese Tour, but I know her golf game is really good.  It's well-known.  Like she's well-known to be a good golfer, so yeah.   
 Q.  What's your schedule like after this?  
JIWON JEON: We have a tournament in September, on September 17th, at MIAC Intercollegiate in Minnesota.   
 Q.  You're not going over to Ireland to play for Korea?  
JIWON JEON: No, no.   
 Q.  Have you played much this summer outside of the Palmer Cup?  
JIWON JEON: Not really.  I played one tournament in Korea, but that was it.   
 Q.  Was there a reason for that, or just you wanted some time to take a little break off all the golf you played last year?  
JIWON JEON: I cannot really play tournaments in Korea.  I mean, the system is pretty weird, I think.  I'm not kind of allowed to play in Korea because my school is in America, so I can't really register as a Korean golfer.   
 Q.  So you spent the summer in Korea?  
JIWON JEON: Yeah, I was spending time with my friends and family in Korea.   
 Q.  So what will you do between now and when school starts?  Will you go to Tuscaloosa?  
JIWON JEON: Probably tomorrow or two days after, I'll have to be at orientation on the 15th, so yeah, so I'll be there pretty soon, and then probably practice in between when school starts and -- yeah.   
 Q.  You're now exempt into the Women's Open next year.  How exciting is that?  You've never played in a major I don't think?  
JIWON JEON: No, I've never played in a Women's Open before.  I'm really, really thrilled about playing the 2019 Women's Open next year.  It's just great.   
 Q.  What Korean golfers do you look up to?  What are your idols?  
JIWON JEON: Seri Pak, but now I like Inbee Park, too.  She has a really good mental game and short game.  She has really good putting, so I really look up to her.   
 Q.  You were probably a toddler when Seri kind of had the biggest win for Korea in 1998.  
JIWON JEON: Yeah, but I looked up at her a lot, yeah.   
 Q.  And it seems like she's done so much for Korea.  Just the number of players after her, it's been an endless vein --  
JIWON JEON: She's done so much for Korean golfers.  My age there is tons of golfers, and they're playing really hard, and they're really great golfers to be on LPGA.   
 Q.  You and Kristen talked for a little bit on the first tee in the afternoon.  What did you guys talk about?  
JIWON JEON: I asked her when does school start because I didn't know the actual day when the school starts, so I asked her a little bit when school started, and then she said the 22nd.  And then I asked her when is she coming to Tuscaloosa, and yeah.   
 Q.  Usually you don't see a lot of Korean golfers come over here to play college golf.  What made you decide to take that route?  
JIWON JEON: Well, I went to high school in Australia, and my coaches at Hills Golf Academy, they suggest me to go to U.S. college because they went to U.S. college before and they played college golf for a few years and then they came back, so they said the U.S. college will build a lot of -- help me to build a lot of experiences for the future career.   
 Q.  And so you decided to go to JC.  Was that just because you needed to get some grades and some English proficiency taken care of?  
JIWON JEON: Yeah, I had some problem with the college credit hours, so yeah.   
 Q.  Did you hear from Mick?  
JIWON JEON: Yes, I did.  He texted me right after the tournament.  Well, I didn't really check.  I got a lot of messages.   
 Q.  How many messages are on your phone?  
JIWON JEON: I don't even know.  It's like around the world, so yeah.  I mean, I got messages from Korea, from my family and my friends.  I mean, it's 6:00 in the morning or 5:00 or 4:00 when they're sending text messages.   
 Q.  How many schools recruited you?  
JIWON JEON: I mean --   
 Q.  How many visits did you make?  
JIWON JEON: I mean, I only had one visit to Alabama.   
 Q.  So you were pretty much sold on that after that?  
JIWON JEON: Well, there was a few schools that were recruiting like UF and -- a few schools, yeah.   
 Q.  But you felt comfortable at Alabama?  
JIWON JEON: Yeah.   
 Q.  You guys are going to have a pretty good team, Lauren, you, Kristen --  
JIWON JEON: Yeah, it's going to be great.   
 Q.  Have you thought much about LPGA Q-school?  
JIWON JEON: Oh, yeah, I always wanted to go play Q-school, so I'm trying to play Q-school next year.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT