U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 10, 2018
Jiwon Jeon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You're in the semifinals of the U.S. Women's Amateur.  What are your first thoughts?  What's running through your head right now?
JIWON JEON: Well, it's just amazing to be in the semifinals.  I never thought about that coming up here, because before I came here, I wasn't really confident with my golf game.  But here I just played my golf.  I knew I worked hard before the tournament, so I think I deserve to be here.
Q. How many USGA events have you played?  Is this your first?
JIWON JEON: This is my first time playing this event.
Q. Your first USGA event; they're known for being very demanding and testing all parts of your game.  So far what's going well for you?
JIWON JEON: Well, I think everything just worked out pretty well.  I played golf in America for two years, and I kind of know like the course and then the grass type.  And my short game was pretty good this week, and the putting was okay.  Yeah, everything worked out pretty well.  Yeah, everything was pretty good.
Q. Talk about this match you just played.  You won the first hole and then never led again until the very end.  What was going on out there?
JIWON JEON: Well, I was mentally a little exhausted at the beginning, and then I was kind of lose focus a little bit.  But after the 4th hole when I made birdie, then I kind of caught up on her.  Then tried to fight really hard and then tried to focus on each shot and try not to play her, so I think it ended up pretty well.
Q. On 18 you were 1-down, needed to win the hole to extend the match, and you were in the rough and she was in the first cut.  Looked like she had the advantage over you there.  What did you go with on your last shot?  What was the club?  What was your yardage, and what was your read?
JIWON JEON: Well, I'm using meters, so I'll try to convert.  It was 141 meters, which is 157 yards to the pin, and then I hit 7-iron.  I usually hit 6-iron with the yardage, but I knew it was going to roll up a little bit, so I went with my gut, with my 7, and it ended up pretty well.  I landed it where I wanted to be.
Q. Kristen Gillman and Lauren Stephenson are already in the semifinals.  You're going to be a third Alabama player out of four in the semifinals here.  Talk about the Alabama connection here.
JIWON JEON: I mean, it's amazing to think.  I knew they were really good players and that Alabama has the best golf program, but I never thought three Alabama players are going to be in the semifinals.  So I think it's pretty amazing, and I'm very excited to play one of them tomorrow.
Q. Do you know Kristen and Lauren?
JIWON JEON: I really don't know them personally.  I met them at the official visit at Alabama.
Q. Tomorrow you're playing your future teammate then; what do you need to do tomorrow to advance to the finals here?
JIWON JEON: Well, I try not to play -- I know I'm playing Lauren, so I try not to play Lauren tomorrow, I'm just kind of focused on each shot and stay calm and just hit right at the target.  That's it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT