U.S. OPEN
September 7, 2015
Varvara Lepchenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
V. AZARENKA/V. Lepchenko   
6-3, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  It was a close match.  What was the difference, in your mind, out there?  
VARVARA LEPCHENKO: Just a couple of things.  I felt like I couldn't return aggressive enough to put her -- to put more pressure on her.  And also, served it out a couple of times.  I have been struggling this tournament with my serve and been playing long, long points in the previous matches.   
I think that made a big difference today.   
 Q.  Good results overall; you played on Ashe; American citizen.  Does it bring together a lot of those elements for you?  
VARVARA LEPCHENKO: Yeah, definitely.  I feel that, you know, everything is going pretty much my way.  Obviously I wanted to win, but I'm pretty proud of my effort here.  It's my first round of 16 at the US Open, so pretty happy right now.   
I'm going to keep on working, keep on pushing, and keep on trying to get all these little details improve so next time I don't have those regrets after the match.   
 Q.  What did you think about the crowd?  At one point they really started pulling for you.  People were cheering, USA, USA.  Did you feel any of that?  
VARVARA LEPCHENKO: Yeah, definitely.  I said in my previous press conference it's bringing another level of intensity and another level of energy in me.   
It's great to feel so much support behind and makes me only play better and fight more.   
 Q.  What do you think the key to Victoria's winning was today?  If you had to describe what is the best part of her game, what would you say?  
VARVARA LEPCHENKO: I think she was very consistent today.  She didn't miss that much.  That's how she won.  She made less mistakes compared to me.   
 Q.  Down the road people are saying that she could, you know, be Serena's, if Serena wins, her biggest competition.  Do you think that's true?  Do you think she has the game to beat Serena right now?  
VARVARA LEPCHENKO: I don't know if she can beat Serena, but we have been seeing a lot of players right now that have been close playing against Serena.  Then she always raise her level and nobody could beat her at the moment.   
If she could do it, that would be great for her.   
 Q.  Do you feel like just in terms of feeling her ball and her consistency that she's playing at a level to do that, Victoria?  Or do you feel she's going to have to raise her game to try to beat someone like Serena?  
VARVARA LEPCHENKO: You know, I haven't played Serena in a long time, so if I have to compare, I have nothing to compare with.   
So I feel like Serena always comes up with big serves, and that's really -- and obviously power, the way she hits the ball.   
So I don't know how she's gonna be able to handle this, so, you know, I didn't have that power of serve today to see how she -- but when I did, I felt like I was in control a lot of times.   
So we just have to wait and see.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT