MERCURY INSURANCE OPEN
July 18, 2012
Varvara Lepchenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 V. LEPCHENKO/C. Scheepers
  6‑4, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Did it take you a while to get into the match today?  
VARVARA LEPCHENKO:   Yeah, actually it was pretty difficult out there.   I'm still trying to get used to conditions, still trying to find my game.   
But I'm happy the way it ended up.   
   
 Q.   You didn't serve particularly well today, but you also didn't face one break point on your serve, I don't think.   So were you just able to just play some of those points better off of those first serves?  
VARVARA LEPCHENKO:   Yeah, I feel like even though I didn't serve so well I placed my serve well and I didn't give a lot of chances on my second serve.   She wasn't able to attack it or put me on defense, so that helped a lot.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
VARVARA LEPCHENKO:   You know, I feel like I've improved my game a lot, as I've been saying before, both physically and technically and tactically.   All aspects of my game have improved a lot.  
So it showed the difference today.   
   
 Q.   I think on her serve you only had four breaks on hers but you converted three of them.   Do you feel like on some of the bigger points you just played them a little better than she did?   
VARVARA LEPCHENKO:   I don't remember, but I feel like, you know, I just tried to stay extremely focused out there.   Once I get into the match, especially into the second set, I started to go more for my shots and started to play a lot better.   
I don't remember exactly what happened on the break points.   I didn't really think that much.   That's probably why it made the difference.   
   
 Q.   With the success you had both over in the French Open and then at Wimbledon, do you feel like your confidence level right now is pretty high?  
VARVARA LEPCHENKO:   I mean, obviously it's growing.   I still, you know, am improving and still trying to prove to myself out there that I can play on all the surfaces.   Because a lot of people put me into certain sections, surfaces out there.  
But I feel like I can play on all the surfaces, and I've been showing it.   
   
 Q.   (Question regarding conserving energy.)  
VARVARA LEPCHENKO:   I mean, I don't really conserve my energy at the moment because I feel like I'm pretty fit.   I've been working really hard this past year, and I feel like it's not even about conserving your energy.   It's about being more efficient out there and try to do the right things on the court, so then later in the rounds you can get better and better and improve your game by doing the right things.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT