NCAA MEN'S 1ST AND 2ND ROUNDS: RALEIGH
March 16, 2016
Brian Darden
Reginald Johnson, Jr.
Quinton Chievous
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Hey, Reggie, I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about transitioning from the off-guard to the point coming into this season, what it took for you?  
REGINALD JOHNSON, JR.: It took a lot of confidence in my teammates, you know, changing some plays around and it was more fitting for me running point and getting some guys involved but basically my teammates, you know, they had confidence I could do it.  Coaches had confidence.  It was pretty much a bumpy start from the start but we got it going.   
 Q.  You sort of touched on it at the end there.  Did it take some time and when was it that you felt most comfortable?  
REGINALD JOHNSON, JR.: I think I probably most felt comfortable with it around December, January time.  Once I start pretty much getting the feel for what guys like the ball on the court.  I think that was the hard thing, making sure I was getting other people's shots.  You sometimes forget abut that coming from shooting guard to point guard that your job is mainly to get guys as easy as looks as possible.   
 Q.  Quinton, have you had a chance to reconnect with Darius Thompson at all, and guys trade texts or anything.  Were you guys that tight?  
QUINTON CHIEVOUS: Oh, yeah.  He's like my brother.  He texted me right after we found out who we were going to play.  We kind of texted back and forth, kind of enjoying the experience.  Kind of bringing us a lot back closer.   
 Q.  How would you characterize your relationship?  Is he somebody that you kept up with since you've been at HU and he's been at UVA or is this an opportunity to reunite?  
QUINTON CHIEVOUS: No, he's really like my little brother.  We work out in the summer because I go back to Nashville and he's from Murfreesboro.  We talk all the time.  It's just a lot more fun and exciting, because we are going to play each other, especially both of us transferring from Tennessee.   
 Q.  Brian, could you talk about the team's reaction to playing Virginia, when it went up on the board and did you think it was a possibility ahead of time?  
BRIAN DARDEN: We definitely thought it was a possibility ahead of time but we were definitely excited about it.  You know, it was definitely something we was looking forward to.   
 Q.  Brian, this being a return trip for you guys, how much does having been here just help for stuff like this, and just, you know, preparation and everything?  
BRIAN DARDEN: Definitely keeps us -- you know, we're definitely a lot more calm than we were before.  First I time I came here, I was nervous.  I ain't going to lie to you.  But it's definitely a better feeling coming up here again.   
 Q.  This is for all you guys:  16 seeds haven't had any success against the No. 1 seeds historically.  How do you guys approach that mentally?  
BRIAN DARDEN: Mentally we just focus on what we do best and we just going to come out there and play our best ability.   
QUINTON CHIEVOUS: I feel this year anybody can be upset honestly.  Look at number ones this year that have fallen, I feel like March Madness if you come to play and you're ready, I feel like anything can happen.  If you look at lot of places, ESPN said this could be the year number 16 to upset No. 1.  We got to come and play and be prepared and focused.   
REGINALD JOHNSON, JR.: Backing up what Q and Brian said, this year I think it's been the most combined losses for combined No. 1 teams in NCAA history.  It kind of goes to show you it's up in the air even though they're a No. 1 seed and we are No. 16 seed.   
 Q.  Brian, you mentioned being nervous last year and more relaxed this year.  Do you guys kind of take your cue from Coach? He seems so relaxed last year, even when you guys were getting ready to play Kentucky and he kind of became a national star, but just following his lead?  
BRIAN DARDEN: Yeah.  We definitely, you know, feed off the vibe, you know, of our head coach, but we also have a great bond with that team.  So, I mean, like we all talk.  You know what I'm saying?  We all have like a relaxed mindset about it.  We all have confidence in each other and each one of our different abilities, so definitely.   
 Q.  This is for Quinton:  Your dad was obviously a big star in his day.  Has he been any kind of a sounding board for you, especially now, going in here to March Madness?  
QUINTON CHIEVOUS: He don't do too much.  He kind of just tells me, you know, what to do, kind of tells me a little bit about the scout and just prepares me mentally just be ready and he always tells me at the end of the day it's just basketball, so you just got to come ready to play.   
 Q.  I'm assume you don't wear a Band-Aid like your dad or do you have any superstitions like that?  
QUINTON CHIEVOUS: No, I only wear a Band-Aid if I get hurt or something like that.  But second half of the season I been wearing a headband ever since.  So I guess that's my new swag or whatever.   
THE MODERATOR: Any other questions? All right.  Gentlemen, thank you very much and good luck tomorrow.   
BRIAN DARDEN: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT