PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2010
Robert McClellan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. I guess first off I'm sure that it's a whirlwind at this point with your schedule and everything, but just kind of maybe recap your experience the experience in the last couple days for you?
 ROBERT McCLELLAN: The experience, you can't beat it. They treat you great. You come out here with expectations of hitting the ball well and hopefully making the cut. And I hit the ball good yesterday and just had a couple bad shots and I came back and I was 1-over and made a mistake on -- I bogeyed 2. Missed a short putt on 2, ended up 3-putting and I made a couple birdies and was happy to get back to even. And I was right there. And right in the middle of the fairway on 6 and chunked it in and made a bogey and then I bogeyed 7, and I bogeyed 8. 
 I mean I ended up shooting 75. And I was late for the tee, 31 seconds late to the tee. I started off the second round with a two-shot penalty and I just mentally was -- I think I took an 8 on the first hole and I was going out with the intentions of shooting 70 and making the cut. And I that just child all my hopes. 

 Q. Obviously I believe this is your first time, lessons are learned now, should you get back here. 
 ROBERT McCLELLAN: Absolutely. And definitely a good lesson learned and something you can teach everybody back home and when you run tournaments and you got to be there.

 Q. Talk about this course. You played on a Pete Dye course in French Lick, the championship there, compare the two at all. Is there any comparison?
 ROBERT McCLELLAN: Yeah, I mean there's a little bit of length there. This course is a lot longer. At French Lick you don't have the views as here. But it's pretty similar. I played well there and I thought I played well here. And I came out and played a couple practice rounds, I probably played here eight times here in the last week and a half. So I had a good feel for the course, I thought I could play well. But the golf course is real tough.





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT