DAVIS CUP BY BNP PARIBAS WORLD GROUP FINAL: SPAIN v CZECH REPUBLIC
November 16, 2012
Radek Stepanek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







D. FERRER/R. Stepanek
  6‑3, 6‑4, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Do you think the key of the match is the quality of your serve and the number of points you won on your own serve?
RADEK STEPANEK:   Yeah, I knew from the back of the court he was going to be like a machine.   That's what I expected. 
I have to say that today the biggest difference was in the serve.   I don't remember when I served that much double‑faults in the match.   I completely lost the timing on my serve.   I couldn't put him under the pressure with the high percentage of the first serve, coming to the net, taking the activity, changing the rhythm. 
When I played a lot of points from the second serve, his part of the game was more effective than mine because I had to risk the second serve to come to the net and I had to work for the points much harder than I wanted to. 
That's why I always in every set felt behind, you know.   I was a break down in the third set.   I was two breaks down.   I was able to come back.   But if you let such a player like David to be in front in every other set, it's very difficult to break him down. 
I felt that there were chances in the second set when I come back.   Third set I was getting closer.   There were one, two lucky points which went with him.   But it's always like that. 
But, you know, I'm quite disappointed with my serve today. 

Q.   Did you feel the match was closer than the scoreline suggested?   You lost in straight sets, but do you think that was maybe a bit harsh on yourself?
RADEK STEPANEK:   Yeah, definitely we played three sets, but we played three hours.   There was a lot of chances to get back, maybe step in front in the second set, to come back in the third. 
I lost in straight sets, but the quality of the match was pretty high.   Only, as I said, my serve wasn't the best part today. 
But I was trying to attack, you know, to go to the net.   David, in that time he was defending incredibly well.   When he had a chance, he was attacking with his forehand, as usual. 
Yeah, I was missing my serve today. 

Q.   Straight sets, but that was quite a tough match.   How physically exhausting has that been for you and how will you be for the rest of the weekend?
RADEK STEPANEK:   I always say that when you win a match, you never feel the tiredness.   But, yeah, with David, you have to work for every inch of the court.   So you have to work for your points. 
But I'm feeling okay.   Definitely I know that I played a three‑hour match.   But that's what it takes.   I've been in these situations quite a few times.   I will get rest, you know, support Tomas, and be ready for tomorrow. 

Q.   Another question about the serve.   Are you anxious for tomorrow about it or is it something that you can find again, your rhythm, in 24 hours?
RADEK STEPANEK:   I will definitely look at it, what was wrong.   I'm not making a big thing from it because tomorrow is another day and we know how it works. 
As I said, there have been many matches I played in my career where something didn't work and I came another day and I was able to work it out.   That's what I'm expecting from myself, even from tomorrow. 
I will not go to the bed thinking only about my serve because I think I played pretty good, attacking tennis.   I played a better opponent today.   He deservedly won the match today.   You know, I will get ready for tomorrow.   There is still a lot on the line. 

Q.   You went to the umpire a couple of times with the balls.   What was wrong with them?   What was your problem there?
RADEK STEPANEK:   It was only that a few cans, even during the week, they've been a little different.   The balls came out softer, so that's why I was asking if we could change them, because there is maybe one, two cans which can be different. 
There was not a big deal about it.   It happens sometimes. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT