SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 11, 2012
Radek Stepanek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. STEPANEK/J. Isner
  6‑4, 6‑7, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Almost 35 years in a few weeks.   Quarterfinals here.   
RADEK STEPANEK:   34.   
   
 Q.   So how do you live this amazing story?   Is it an amazing story for you to be in the quarterfinals here?  
RADEK STEPANEK:   Yeah, you know, it's always great to be in quarters.   The tournament is not over yet.   I'm playing some good tennis here this week.   I like the court.   It suits my game.   I'm trying to get most of it.  
   
 Q.   Do you have any special explanation about the fact that you are doing very well here?   You also made the quarters three years ago here.   Is it something to do with the atmosphere, the surface?  
RADEK STEPANEK:   First of all, it has something to do with the hard work I'm putting in the whole year.   You know, sometimes it doesn't go the way you want it.   You have some tough losses.   I always fight until the last moment.   I never give up.   I'm always waiting for my chance.   
I played here three great matches.   I'm looking forward to another one tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Are you already thinking about the Davis Cup final?   In your preparation are you preparing in a way for the Davis Cup final?  
RADEK STEPANEK:   Yeah, definitely.   I had to adjust my schedule straightaway after we won in Argentina, plan it, because the end of the year I still have the Masters in O2 Arena the week before Davis Cup final.   It's going to be very busy end of the year.   
That's a great thing to have.   I'm looking forward to it.   Definitely the Davis Cup final is a huge motivation for me.   
   
 Q.   It's been a good tournament, like you say.   Can the renaissance continue against Andy Murray?   He destroyed Dolgopolov 6‑2, 6‑2 this evening.   
RADEK STEPANEK:   Andy is having a blast this year I think winning Olympic gold medal, his first Grand Slam at the US Open.   So definitely I'm expecting very tough match.   
I have nothing to lose and I will try to come out with my best tennis and try to surprise him.   
   
 Q.   What did you change precisely for the end of the year?  
RADEK STEPANEK:   I had to switch some tournaments, to take some tournaments out of the schedule.   I would play six or seven weeks in a row.   The two most important ones for the rest of the year are the last ones, so I don't want to be tired.   
I had to find some space to prepare, to rest, get ready for the last three weeks, which is Paris, London and then Davis Cup finals.   
   
 Q.   You play both singles and doubles.   How do you do it physically?   Is it hard work physically to play both?  
RADEK STEPANEK:   Yeah, definitely.   That's what I said in the beginning.   Behind all the wins you first have to look for hard work.   That's what I'm putting in.   I'm addicted to tennis.   I'm trying to stay healthy and fit as much as I can.   
I have some experience throughout the years.   I have a great team around me which keeps me healthy and fit.   That's why I can play both singles and doubles.   
I'm very happy the way I'm successful in both.   
   
 Q.   I'm sure you've been asked this question many times before.   At 33, going strong, what more do you think you can contribute to the sport, what can you give to the younger generation?  
RADEK STEPANEK:   I hope I will give them trouble so far I'm going to be on the court.   Yeah, so far I'm focused on my things, on my tennis.   Once I'll be done, then I can pass the message to the others.   
But until I'm going to be actively playing, because I'm playing on the highest level.   I want to keep doing that as long as I can, as long as I know that I can be a trouble for the guys playing on the highest level.   
If I will feel that my body doesn't have it anymore or my mind is too tired, then I just quit.   I'm not going to be the one pushing it just because of playing.   I have to have the fire.   I have to have the fun.   
I live for tennis 24/7, like I think everybody else does.   Without it, it's impossible to be on such a level.   I'm very pleased that it's going this way.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT