TMS - MADRID
October 19, 2005
Radek Stepanek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Radek. 


Q.  What do you think the difference was between the two of you today? 

RADEK STEPANEK:  I think, you know, I felt that Tim was -- Tim knew that we played last week, we played the last week in Vienna, very tough match.  You know, I had a lot of confidence from that last week.  So I came to the match, as I said, with the confidence.  That showed in the first -- in the beginning of the match, that I felt that he knows that it's going to be a tough match.  I think I was serving pretty well and I was returning pretty well all match.  So I think that was the difference.  I'm very happy that I went through because I felt in the morning that I'm not going to even step up on the court. 

Q.  Was it your neck or your shoulder? 

RADEK STEPANEK:  It was actually my neck because I woked up this morning and I said to my coach, "I'm not able to turn.  I don't know what happened, but I can't move."  So we just came in the morning here to see the physiotherapist here.  They been just working for two and a half hours on my neck before the match, and I didn't had a warm-up, nothing.  And I felt, you know, like 20 minutes before the match that I'm just going to try to play.  And suddenly they put something on my neck, some hot cream.  When I was start to sweating a little bit, then the pain was going away.  I still feel it, but I was able to play, which I have to give a great respect for the physios, what they did with me in two and a half hours. 

Q.  Bearing that in mind, you lost your first four matches against Tim.  The last one was in March.  Now you've beaten him twice in a week.  This time you were not fully physically fit.  Do you feel this is part of your rising form or do you think maybe Tim is reaching the stage where he may be easier to beat than he was before? 

RADEK STEPANEK:  You know what, I'm feeling that this year I'm playing my best tennis in my career so far.  Also, as you said, I think Tim -- it's not Tim's best year so far.  So I think there are both aspects in your question.  You know, it was -- it's always for me very, very tough to play him because he's mixing up the game.  He knows to play very well serve and volley.  He's got a big, big forehand, you know, inside-out.  You know, for me, I don't like his game, if I have to be honest.  You know, last two matches I won.  I'm happy for that.  I hope I can keep my form like this until end of the year. 

Q.  Did you feel in the second set that, okay, it was going against you, but you still had enough in reserve to fight through the third set?  Did you still have confidence at that stage? 

RADEK STEPANEK:  Yeah, I had the confidence in there because I knew I have a set in my bag, the first one.  I knew if I lost two serves pretty quick, you know, in the second set, I had two breakpoints in the first set -- in the first service game.  You know, I didn't make it.  Then he broke me straightaway.  It was a big difference, you know, to be 2-Love up, and I was 2-Love down.  Then Tim, he was a bit relaxed, he was playing big shots, so that's why he won the second set 6-1.  As you said, I had enough confidence, you know, to stay in the match and to fight back in the third. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT