WIMBLEDON
June 21, 2005
Radek Stepanek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.


Q.  Was it hot out there today?

RADEK STEPANEK:  Compared to the other two days, not that much.  But was nice.  It was nice weather to play tennis.


Q.  Were you pleased with your win today, because it was quite difficult at first, wasn't it?

RADEK STEPANEK:  Definitely I'm pleased that I won today because always, you know, on the Grand Slam tournaments the first matches are -- most of them are tough, you know, the first-round matches, because you are getting used to the conditions on the match courts. And, you know, it's always tough to get through the first round, and I'm happy that I'm through and I'm looking forward to keep going like this.


Q.  Do you like it here?  Do you like Wimbledon?

RADEK STEPANEK:  Yeah, I love -- I don't like it, I love it here.  For me, this is the biggest tournament in the world.  And, you know, from all of the Grand Slams, this is my favorite, my favorite one.  I love the atmosphere here.  I love it.


Q.  What do you know of your next opponent?

RADEK STEPANEK:  Actually, I saw him playing in Queen's when I was also playing.  I know he played a couple of good matches.  And I will prepare for the next match as I did today, and that's it.


Q.  What did you make of him at Queen's?

RADEK STEPANEK:  Sorry?


Q.  What did you make of him at Queen's?

RADEK STEPANEK:  I just saw him playing against Johansson, couple of games.


Q.  He's the new darling of Wimbledon as far as the British are concerned.  Can you understand that?

RADEK STEPANEK:  Congratulation to him for that (smiling). But I'm here, you know, for my job, to keep winning.  And if they're staying, you know -- I will just concentrate on my serve no matter who is staying on the other side of the court, and I will do my best to get through to the third round.


Q.  You've obviously got a lot of experience, and he's just coming through.  Do you think that could be crucial, using your experience?

RADEK STEPANEK:  Definitely I will use everything I have, as I do in all of my matches.  And we'll see on Thursday.


Q.  Do you think that we get a little bit carried away here at Wimbledon looking for a British winner?

RADEK STEPANEK:  I think in every country, every country supports their players, and I think that's usual and I have no problem with it.


Q.  I mean, is it difficult sometimes for you because he's obviously going to have such strong support from the home fans?  Does that make it difficult for you?

RADEK STEPANEK:  You know, I'm used to that.  I played a lot of Davis Cup matches.  I played a lot of times against the guys which were from the country where the tournament was, so it's not a big deal for me.


Q.  Is it something you thrive upon even, do you think, when the crowd are chanting for your opponent?

RADEK STEPANEK:  You know, it belongs to the tennis, the crowd.  I like to play when the crowd is there, so it's no problem for me.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT