BAYLOR UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 21, 2017
Trestan Ebner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








West Virginia - 38, Baylor - 36
TRESTAN EBNER: We're not going to give up.  We didn't give up last week at Oklahoma State.  We're not going to give up this week or next week.
Q. How big was the on-side kick just to get you guys back within range, I guess?
TRESTAN EBNER: It was really good, especially for him, like just to be --
Q. He tipped the ball, right?
TRESTAN EBNER: Yeah, just to be like, this is really good.  Oh, you're talking about the last one?
Q. No, the one you actually recovered.
TRESTAN EBNER: That was really big because we recovered it.  But even the last one, that was a heck of a kick, yeah.  We've just got to get it back.  I mean, they tried, so there were no complaints.  It was just a good catch by West Virginia.
Q. What about the crowd reaction there at the end?  I'm sure you guys were disappointed losing, but they kind of showed you some love there at the end.
TRESTAN EBNER: It's always great, you know, just being patient and just noticing the changes that we're making.  You know, I mean, your fans, you have a good fan base, you tend to be like really good.  You hear about the Alabamas, the Ohio State fans, we saw the fans like that just come out and support.  The teams usually do good.  So we want to do good for them.
Q. Where do you go from here?  Where does this team go from here?
TRESTAN EBNER: Up, we're going to keep going up.  We're going to keep going up the next week, the week after that, off-season, the year after that, the year after that.  As long as Coach Rhule's here, we're going to keep going up.  The man knows what he's doing, and we're 100% behind him.
Q. How much did Charlie's ability to use his feet and run open things up for you guys in the running game?
TRESTAN EBNER: It did really good, because the defense had to keep an eye on him the.  I think it surprised the defense because it's a look they haven't gotten.  Like they didn't watch film over him, so I think it was really good.  He made good plays for us.
Q. You said you guys never really lost faith at one point at all during this game.  Was there a time in the third quarter where you were thinking what in the world is going on?
TRESTAN EBNER: I mean, you know, when they come out and score quick like that, it makes you upset, but you've got to stay positive and just keep fighting.  Nobody ever did anything goodbye being negative.  So we've got to stay positive.
Q. What's that mean to you that you, Charlie, Gavin, you guys are making some big plays down the stretch, and you guys all came to this class together and you're going to be a part of his future?
TRESTAN EBNER: It's big because we talk about it.  We talk about it almost every day.  We're just always trying to build this program.  James Lynch came in and stepped in.  So it's just great seeing the younger guys learning from the older guys.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT