SPRINT TITLEHOLDERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 3, 1997
Kris Tschetter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  Okay.  First hole I just hit a terrible 9 iron from about 138, missed the green and chipped it up five feet and just kind of hit my putt a little soft and made bogey.  And then spent the afternoon at the commissioner's house watching basketball and a little golf.  So we had a very nice rain delay.  And then got out on 8 and hit a wedge from 127 up two feet and made it for birdie.  And, then on 9, hit a sand wedge up twelve feet and made it.  And then on 11 hit a pitching wedge from 125, ten feet and made it.  Twelve feet, I guess, made it.  12, hit a sand wedge from 97 feet, made that for birdie.  And then on 14, hit a little 7-iron up six feet.  Made that for birdie. 
 

Q.  So you got through -- did you finish number 7?
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  I finished 16. 
 

Q.  Talking about on the first delay, you did finish 7?
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  No, we were up on the green. 
 

Q.  Commissioner's house is right there?
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  Yeah, it was perfect.  It was -- 
 

Q.  You guys just walked over knocked on the door?
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  Yeah, yeah.  Can we come in? 
 

Q.  Is that what happened?
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  Yeah. 
 

Q.  Who all went with you?
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  Just me and my husband. 
 

Q.  Beer and pretzels?
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  Yeah, everyone's else left.  We were kind of standing there going, you know, I think we should just go over here, there will be good food and -- (laughs)  good TVs, so it was really perfect.  We hadn't seen their house, so we were thinking it wasn't going to be quite that long of a delay. 
 

Q.  What hole was that on?
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  7. 
 

Q.  So it was right there?
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  Yeah.  It was absolutely perfect. 
 

Q.  Which basketball game did you watch?
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  Phoenix and Seattle. 
 

Q.  Who won?
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  I guess Seattle.  I was rooting for Seattle.  
 

Q.  Did you have to take your spikes off?
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  Yeah.  Take the spikes off at the back door. 
 

Q.  Did he tell you to do that?
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  I just knew.  My mom makes me do it at home, so I figured I better do it at Linda's house.  The commissioner informed me it was Linda's house (laughs). 
 

Q.  There wasn't no pre-Kentucky Derby watching?
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  Actually we watched -- he has 3 TVs so we had the golf on one, the basketball and the Kentucky Derby. 
 

Q.  Were they a little surprised when you knocked on the door?
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  I don't think so.  They were actually I think she was out -- Linda was out watching and when we started walking, she was going "Come on."  (laughs). I am not sure she was ready for us to be there for three hours, but (laughs). 
 

Q.  Did he happen to mention who he had bet on for the Derby, because he mentioned his pick earlier in the week?
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  Oh, no, he didn't tell us. 
 

Q.  -- his early pick was the horse that ended up winning?
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  Oh, really? 
 

Q.  Did you finish up with a couple of pretty nice saves at 15 and 16?
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  Yeah, 15 I hit it in the rough off the tee and just kind of got caught up with a 6-iron in the rough; left it a little short and I thought I hit a real nice chip up there, but it landed soft and I had about a 4-footer. I made that.  Then on 16, I hit it in that right bunker and hit a beautiful shot; just had the wrong club and went over the green and hit my chip by about ten feet.  And, I could see that they were, you know -- I saw lightning flash and I could see that they were thinking about calling it and I was kind of torn because you don't want to make bogey and have to walk away. But, you don't wanting to thinking about this 10-footer that you have got to save par.  So it was really a good feeling to make that and walk away from 16 with the par. 
 

Q.  Is that strictly a confidence thing, do you think?  I mean, if you weren't playing so much golf --
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  Not really confidence thing, just to have it over with.  Just to know that you have got your par and you are going on to 17.  I mean, I wouldn't mind having -- I think Tammie has got about an 8-footer for birdie.  I think I would rather have that and still have the putt left.  But -- can't complain. 
 

Q.  How disappointing is it not to finish today and the routine that you will have to go through in the morning?
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  It is disappointing in that I won't somebody sleeping in like I thought I was going to be doing.  And, so we are going to be out here early.  Then we are going to have some dead time before we have to tee off again, which just makes it a little bit of a longer day.  But, hey, it is golf.  Used to it. 
 

Q.  What are you going to do with those five hours?
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  I don't think we are really going to have five hours.  We will probably finish up by 8 o'clock and then go back tee off around 11. 
 

Q.  11:30.
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  Yeah, so, it won't be too bad.  Just go grab some breakfast; come back and go through the same routine warm up and everything.  Go back out. 
 

Q.  Looked liked you had a pretty hot stretch there from 7 to 16 with the putter?
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  Yeah. 
 

Q.  Putting pretty much everything?
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  Yeah, when I missed a green I got it up-and-down.  When I hit the green, I made it for birdie.  So that is fun.  Like I said, the game is a lot easier when you can putt. 
 

Q.  Do you remember the last time you were this confident with the putter?
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  No.  I really can't.  I mean, I struggled with my putter all my career, you know, really.  But, the last year and a half, really, it has been tough and it is nice to finally have figured it out and really have some confidence in it. 
 

Q.  Have you ever been one to tinker a lot with different grips and putter styles?
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  No.  I haven't.  I always figured it is not the putter, so I am not going to be changing from putter to putter.  It was really with me.  It was just a matter of alinement.  I couldn't get myself lined up and when you stand up over a putt and you don't feel like you are lined up it is real hard to put a good stroke on it.  So it is nice now to feel like I at least get my putts lined up right. 
 

Q.  Will you go home tonight feeling like the third round leader or --
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  Well, you know, I am actually feeling like Tammie is probably going to make her putt and we are going to be tied.  She is a great putter and I am sure she will make that. 
 

Q.  What have you learned from all of your - every time you get in a position like this and it has to help, I guess, somewhere down the road.  What do you think you have learned from being in this position before, from being in contention that may help you tomorrow?
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  Well, I think I have learned that it doesn't really do any good to go out there and play scared.  You just need to go out there and play your game, take what comes.  Not try to protect anything.  I mean, out here, scores are low and I don't think you can go out and try to protect a lead.  I think you just need to keep going lower. 
 

Q.  Have you played scared (sic) before, do you think, in a final round?
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  Yeah, I think everyone has a tendency  -- they see trouble right and they worry about that or they see trouble left and they steer away from it.  And in reality, if the trouble is left and you hit it right, you are probably just as bad.  So you might as well just take your shot and if you miss it left, you miss it left and go on. 
 

Q.  Was there a particular tournament in which that lesson was kind of hammered home to you?
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  I think --  (A PAUSE FOR THUNDER AND LIGHTNING) -- I think it is just a matter of playing and having it pounded into your head.  It doesn't just happen once.  It happens a bunch of times before you finally get to that point.  I am not saying that, you know, I got up on 17 and missed it right.  So I still do it at certain times, but I do it less and less. 
 

Q.  Tammie obviously has been playing real well all week. This is the first time you played with her this week; is that right?
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  Yes. 
 

Q.  Were you able to see why she has been playing so well?
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  Her putter is really hot also.  I mean, she makes a lot of putts so -- she keeps it in play and is a real good putter. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT