SPRINT TITLEHOLDERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 2, 1997
Kris Tschetter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  Okay.  I birdied the first hole.  I hit a sand wedge up from 105 yards, 15 feet and made it.  And then, on 6, I hit a 9-iron up 13 feet from 137. So, hit a 9-iron from 137 up 13 feet and made that for birdie.  And then on, 11, I hit a pitching wedge from 104, twelve feet, and made it.  And then, 15, I hit a 9-iron from 133 and hit it three feet and made it.  And then 2-putted on 18.  I hit a 4-iron from 198 and 2-putted - 
 

Q.  How far?
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  I had 198 and I knocked the 4-iron 30 feet. 
 

Q.  Have to like your position.
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  I feel good.  I had kind of an interesting day today.  I hit it really well on the range, and started off hitting it really well, and then hit a couple of kind of funky shots in the middle of the round, but then finished up with some solid shots.  So I didn't never have to chip today.  That was fun. I guess I just hit one fringe. 
 

Q.  Why do you always seem to play so well here?  What is it about this --
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  I don't know.  I just like the tournament.  I think that this tournament, being our biggest money event, kind of feels like a Major to me.  And, I just get really up for it.  I like the golf course.  The greens are real true.  It seems like if you hit it on the line that you are trying to hit it on and you have picked the right one, you can really make some putts. 
 

Q.  Forecast for the weekend, this looks like you can't be anything but a shootout with no wind.
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  Yeah, there is a lot of good players right there and, you know, I don't know.  I haven't heard what the weekend is supposed to do, so -- let us see. 
 

Q.  I think rain tomorrow.
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  Yeah, I did see that. Thunderstorms. 
 

Q.  Weatherman said it, then it will be sunny.
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  Really!  (Laughs). 
 

Q.  Any thoughts when you go out and see some of the Hall of Famers?  Betsy King, 65 out there.  Patti Sheehan had a nice round.
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  Yeah, it was definitely doable today,  especially not much wind in the first part of the day and that sure makes the golf course a bit more tame. 
 

Q.  Your friend, he doesn't caddie for you anymore, does he?
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  Which one?  My husband? 
 

Q.  Yes.
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  Actually, he is caddying for me this week. 
 

Q.  He caddied for you when you played so well here before, right?
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  He did.  We got married in January and so this is only the second time he has been out this year. But it is always nice to have him out there.  He is also my teacher.  So I am real comfortable with him on the bag. 
 

Q.  What is his name?
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  Kirk Lucas. 
 

Q.  You talked about finally solving your putting, getting to where you want to be.  How much more of a comfort level has that given you out on the course?
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  Oh, it is unbelievable.  I mean, the game is so much easier when you know that if you miss a green and you hit a chip up there, you can make a few mistakes.  It is (Laughs) - it is a lot easier.  That is all I can say. 
 

Q.  Haven't you solved some kind of an odd combination with the putter?
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  I have really struggled the last year, and I have worked on my stroke, and it has gotten a lot better.  But, as it turns out, my alinement, I just wasn't lining up very well.  And, I moved my head back a little bit. I am able to see the line better.  And it is just, you know, that is all it was.  I mean, it was such a simple little adjustment. 
 

Q.  Tell them about the loft on your putter, what you figured out there.
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  My putter is real upright, and when you make a putter more upright, you have to put a little loft on it.  And I didn't do that last year, and that is kind of when my putting got a little bit - I don't know - shaky, (Laughs) to be kind.  So, we figured that out and, you know, have a putter that is really perfect for me. 
 

Q.  When did Kirk caddie for you last?
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  He caddied for me at the Dinah Shore.  He likes the big tournaments. 
 

Q.  How many greens did you hit today?
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  Well, I hit 17 greens and one fringe that I putted off of. 
 

Q.  Good place for that.
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  Yeah, that makes the game a lot easier too. 
 

Q.  Are you always that consistent? 
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  I feel like I hit the ball pretty well for the last year.  And, you know, the putting, I mean it just -- I had so much pressure on my long game knowing that if I didn't hit a lot of greens it was going to be hard to shoot under par.  So that has definitely taken some pressure off.  Question in the back? 
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  (Laughs). 
 

Q.  Young players have gotten a lot of attention on the LPGA last couple of years and through this season, but on this leaderboard there is an awful lot of experience there.  Is that just coincidence here or --
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  Probably.  That is the greatest thing about golf.  No one can really dominate -- well, except for maybe Tiger.  Tiger, Annika and Carrie.  But, I just think that each week there is different people up at the top and that is what I love about golf. 
 

Q.  So close at the Dinah, do you feel ready to break through and start winning more?
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  Definitely.  Especially, you know, feeling like I am putting better, feeling like, you know, I can -- yeah, I definitely feel like I am ready. 
 

Q.  What will that obstacle be and what line do you cross to start doing that?
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  Well, really the last, you know, I know I have said this a lot, but the last year, it has just really felt like my putter has been what held me back and so now that I have got that straightened out, I feel like I am really ready. 
 

Q.  How many fashion magazines are you in now?  I keep seeing you in these golf advertisement.
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  I don't know.  But it is fun being with a company like Liz Claiborne.  They have got such a huge line and they -- when we do those shoots, the photo shoots for the magazines, you know, that is their business.  It is a fashion company.  So that has really been fun for me to be involved with them. 
 

Q.  Had you done any modeling before or is this --
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  No, not really.  But it is fun, you know, normally when you tell a company, you have three days of my time, the days are always golf related.  For me, with Liz Claiborne the days are photo shoots.  And it is a totally different day and you are kind of the -- treated really well that whole day.  Everyone is taking care of you, fixing your hair and makeup, so it is a fun day for me.  Day away from golf. 
 

Q.  Is this one of the more effortless rounds in awhile? Seemed pretty easy.
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  Yeah.  I hit some really good shots. There was a little stretch in there where I got a little  erratic with my driver, but even then, you know, I didn't feel like I missed too many fairways.  How many fairways did I miss?  I guess I only missed two fairways today. 
 

Q.  Caddies always know.
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  I have got down that -- I am sorry, I missed 3. 
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  Only missed 2 on the front, husband. 
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  Okay.  (Laughs).  He does know better than I do.  I guess four then? 
 

Q.  You want to go over the card again then?
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  Okay, four.  Weren't by much, though.  Couple of them were (Laughs). 
 

Q.  Can you ever relax too much?  Is this a course where it is hard to find trouble because the fairways are so --
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  The fairways are wide, but there is some definite trouble out there and -- I don't think you can really ever relax on a golf course.  Too many things can happen. 
 

Q.  Was it breezy that much today?
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  It got pretty windy this afternoon. Maybe a club; not like some of the weeks that we have played. But enough that you had to really think about what you were doing out there. 
 

Q.  You like this scoring pace where you can put up 67s.
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  Not normally.  Normally I prefer courses like, you know, the U.S. Open, or Dinah Shore, LPGA Championship where pars are really good score.  But I don't know, now that I have got this new putting thing going (Laughs) maybe I will start looking putters's courses. 
 

Q.  You are putting with the Ping putter?
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  Yeah. 
 

Q.  Which one?
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  All 14 clubs of mine are Ping. 
 
KRIS TSCHETTER:  You bet.    
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT