U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 2, 1996
Kris Tschetter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








KRIS TSCHETTER:  Well, I felt good before I teed off.  I knew that if I had a good round, I maybe had a chance.  I knew that Annika needed to falter.  That was the only way that I was going to win.  And that's just not something that Annika does very often.  So it was a long shot.  But I knew that second place was a definite possibility, and I just was just going out and trying to go as low as I could.

KRIS TSCHETTER:  No.  I was obviously hoping for first place, but I think when I made the turn, I saw that Annika was at 8 under, and so she was obviously off to a great start.  And at that point, yeah, I was thinking second place all by myself would be a nice accomplishment.

KRIS TSCHETTER:  Just playing the course.  I'd say maybe -- you just can never get real aggressive on a U.S. Open golf course.  I was -- I wouldn't say I ever went for a pin with the chance of going over one of those greens.  That's just something that you don't do at this golf course.  I played the same game that I've played the last three days.

KRIS TSCHETTER:  I feel good and yet a little disappointed. You dream about winning the Open, and it was nice to get close.  It would have been nice to win it, but hopefully I'll have a few more chances.

KRIS TSCHETTER:  Can you tell me which holes they were on?

KRIS TSCHETTER:  Okay.  I birdied 3.  I hit a 9-iron up 4 feet and made it.  Then I bogeyed 4.  I hit it in the rough.  And just, once again, if you hit it in the rough, it is really hard to hit these greens.  And I missed the green.  I hit a decent sand shot about 10 feet and didn't make it.

KRIS TSCHETTER:  I birdied 8.  I hit a 3-wood off that tee, hit a wedge up about 14 feet and made that.  And then on 9 I hit a good drive and had a 9-iron in from 130, and again, 14 feet and made that.

KRIS TSCHETTER:  I hit a good drive there and came off of the 3-iron a little bit, left it in the bunker, hit a sand shot up a couple of feet and made it.

KRIS TSCHETTER:  We should maybe talk about 15.

KRIS TSCHETTER:  Well, I hit my drive right and fortunately wasn't out of bounds, and had to hit a little 3-iron kind of under the tree and curve it right and didn't hit a very good wedge shot and made about a 18-footer to save par.  On 16 I hit a 6-iron up about 15 feet to the left of the pin and made that.

KRIS TSCHETTER:  I made a good par on 17.  I hit a good drive there, but my line was just a little bit to the right, and I went through the fairway into the rough and just didn't hit the green. Hit a tree and kicked even further right and Kirk, my caddy, significant other, all that stuff, teacher, he suggested that I blast it like a sand shot; just take a full shot and blast it, which I did, and rolled it up about two feet.  So that was a little scary.


Q.  Kris, how close was the putt when you got up-and-down from the bunker at 10?

KRIS TSCHETTER:  It was just a couple of feet; I think three feet.


Q.  Kris, can you size up Annika's game?  And also kind of tell us what you know about her as a person.

KRIS TSCHETTER:  Well, she's just -- she's a really, really nice girl.  Her success has not seemed to change her at all.  She's just kind of into her own game, and she's just a great player.  We were watching the telecast yesterday and saying she's hit 26 of 28 fairways or something like that, and I started thinking how many have I hit?  And believe me, it wasn't that many.  So she's just a solid player and she's a great putter.  Like I said, you don't want to wish bad on anyone, but you can think, well, maybe she's going to have that one so-so round.  But she's just a solid player and I really was not expecting her to falter today.


Q.  Who is the guy with the "Cheese Head" hat on out there? Where did he come from; is he a relative of yours?

KRIS TSCHETTER:  No.  I knew it was a matter of time before one of those showed up.  No, I don't know him, and he was just in the gallery today, but I did notice him.


Q.  Had he been there any time before this week?

KRIS TSCHETTER:  I don't think so.


Q.  Said he's a fan of yours.

KRIS TSCHETTER:  Really?


Q.  I asked him.

KRIS TSCHETTER:  I signed the "Cheese Head" hat.


Q.  When there's such a difference in first and second place, does the person in second place feel like they played a different tournament or different course or anything like that?

KRIS TSCHETTER:  Well, almost.  You kind of -- I kept thinking to myself, what golf course is she playing, because it doesn't feel like that to me.  But she played great, and I give her a lot of credit.  She hung in there, and it's hard to be up at the top. She's defending champion, and then she's right in there every day, and that's a lot of pressure.  And she just hung in there and played great.


Q.  Is there a point when you have to say that I'm playing for second now; did you reach that stage?  And at what point did you finally say, well, I've got to get the No. 2, because I'm not going to catch No. 1?

KRIS TSCHETTER:  I think it was on eight or nine.  I looked at the board, I saw she was at eight, and I saw a bunch of 1's and a bunch of evens.  I turned to Kirk and said Annika is at 8, but if we could get a couple under, that would be big.  And you never know what can happen coming down the stretch.  I don't know what I want to say.  I totally gave up on it, but I knew it was a long shot.

KRIS TSCHETTER:  Not really.  I just -- I can't say enough, she's such a great player.  She doesn't make a lot of bogeys.  I was just trying to do the best that I could; make some birdies and make sure that I did get second all by myself and just get in the clubhouse and see what happens.


Q.  That was going to be my next question.  At that point when you see it on the board and it looks like it's over, what becomes the resolve then; simply just don't make too many mistakes or is it anything more?

KRIS TSCHETTER:  Like, on the last hole I was kind of in between clubs.  I knew I couldn't get the 8-iron all the way back there, but we kind of talked and it was -- the worst thing you can do is hit over that green, so let's hit the 8-iron up there and make the par.  I did want to make a bogey at that point.

KRIS TSCHETTER:  I'm driving home tonight and then going to Lancing on Tuesday.

KRIS TSCHETTER:  Just outside Washington, D.C.


Q.  Are you playing in the British Open this year?

KRIS TSCHETTER:  Yes, definitely.  I played in it the last couple of years, since they allowed the U.S. tour to go over there, and I've really enjoyed it.


Q.  I think this is, what, your third top 20 in a major this year?  Sort of starting to make this --

KRIS TSCHETTER:  Is it?


Q.  19th at the Dinah Shore and then the LPGA, I think you were in the top 20, both a 9th and 19th.  Starting to get pretty good at dealing with these types of circumstances.

KRIS TSCHETTER:  I like the majors.  I think I seem to get a little more up for them.  Have a little more adrenaline flowing through my body, which is good for me. I need to get that adrenaline flowing for all the other tournaments.

KRIS TSCHETTER:  Yes, sometimes.  I love playing on tour.  I absolutely love it.  I love the competition and everything about it, but I also love being home.  So I'm trying to pace myself a little bit better.  When I'm playing in tournaments, really being into it. But sometimes that's hard.  But it's not real difficult when you're playing in the U.S. Open.

KRIS TSCHETTER:  Oh, I'll probably give him a call one of these days coming up.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT