U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 13, 1995
Kris Tschetter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
KRIS TSCHETTER: Well, it helped to have a little adrenaline flowing today because the first two days in the practice round was just so hard to get up those hills, so I felt better out there today.  I had a little more energy.  They did slow the greens down just a bit and that helped.  Otherwise, I think we would have been out there all day.  I mean, it was just some of those greens during the practice rounds were impossible. 
 
KRIS TSCHETTER: Yeah, I think I am starting to adjust a little bit, definitely feeling better. 
 
KRIS TSCHETTER: Well, it was a really pretty solid round.  I didn't hit my driver very well.  So I was in the rough, real rough a little bit.  I hit 14 greens, just played pretty consistent.  I had a couple of 3-putts.  3-putted for par on No. 9 and then what was the other hole?  3-putts 12, par 3.  But other than that, I just -- it was just -- 
 
KRIS TSCHETTER: Birdied number 2.  Hit -- actually didn't hit a very good shot, made a pretty good 30-footer.  Then I bogeyed 3.  It was kind of crazy, that hole.  We were playing into the wind and I had hit really good drive, had 210 into the pin, and then we turned around the group behind us and they were hitting 8-irons again which is what we were hitting in the practice rounds, so that was a little funny.  I made bogey there.  I birdied 8.  What did I knock in?  Oh, yeah, I hit it 10 feet and made it.  And then -- 
 
KRIS TSCHETTER: Yes, with a 3-putt.  13, I hit a 9-iron up about three feet, made it. 
 
KRIS TSCHETTER: 17, I didn't hit a very good drive.  I hit it into the rough and had to hit 5-wood out.  Hit a real good 5-wood right up in front of the green; then pitched it to about 3 feet and made it.  I hit my irons well.  Just didn't hit my drivers as well as I wanted to. 
 

Q.   Practice rounds that you had, the strategy you developed with the greens being a little softer today than they were in the practice rounds, did that help the way you prepared in the practice rounds?
 
KRIS TSCHETTER: They weren't all that much softer, don't get me wrong.  They still -- they were still very difficult.  You really had to respect where you put the ball on the green.  But I think it was good that we played our practice rounds in such tough conditions that you really learned where you wanted to be. 
 

Q.   You mentioned a couple of greens you thought were just impossible.  Were they specific holes or was that a general statement?
 
KRIS TSCHETTER: No, all of them, if you get on the wrong side -- not all of them, but most of them if you are on the wrong side of the pin, you really have difficult putts.  
 

Q.   We are seeing on the leaderboard a lot of the minus numbers being put up on the back 9.  Is it playing any easier or is the front anymore difficult?
 
KRIS TSCHETTER: It is a little shorter.  I think the greens are less severe on the backside. 
 
KRIS TSCHETTER: There was a little breeze; not a whole bunch. 
 
KRIS TSCHETTER: I am not going to tell you that. 
 
KRIS TSCHETTER: Just -- if the greens firm up, I am sure the rough is going to just be getting longer everyday, and I think it is just going to continue to play harder and harder each day. 
 

Q.   Would you describe the round in general as being very consistent today?
 
KRIS TSCHETTER: Yes, aside from the 3-putts, but that is almost -- you just have to understand that you you probably are going to have some 3-putts out here, so, yeah it was consistent to hit 14 greens at a  U.S. Open, I can't complain. 
 

Q.   How far were your 2, 3-putts?
 
KRIS TSCHETTER: The one on 9 I had about 55 feet.  I mean, it was -- I hit 3-wood in there and had quite a long putt and then the other one was 25 feet. 
 

Q.   How long a miss on the second putt at 9?
 
KRIS TSCHETTER: The second one on 9, boy, that was probably 12 feet by and then the other one was 4, 5 feet.  A couple of putts today, I just totally misread.  I read to go right and they went left or vice versa. 
 
KRIS TSCHETTER: I did check the monument. 
 

Q.   Chris, given the way you have been playing, do you feel you are prepared to take this championship?
 
KRIS TSCHETTER: Yes.  I really played well this year.  I have had a lot of desire and I feel like my game has kind of gone to the next level, so you know, yeah, I think I can win a U.S. Open. 
 
KRIS TSCHETTER: I hope I do too. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT