BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 25, 2009
Max Mirnyi
Andy Ram
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







KUBOT-MARACH/Mirnyi-Ram
  4-6, 6-4, 16-14

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Quite some tiebreak. 
 ANDY RAM: It was. That's what happens with the new system, with the scoring. It's exciting for everybody. It can go both ways. 
 We had our chances. Today unfortunately it went to Kubot/Marach. Those kind of matches, it's so close, it's exciting. Even that we lost the match, we felt the tension. The crowd was getting into it. It was fun being on the court. 

 Q. Just under 30 minutes, the tiebreak. How does that rank amongst others you've played? 
 MAX MIRNYI: Well, I guess the occasion speaks for itself. Every point valued so much. They wanted it as much as we did. Perhaps, you know, the nerves factored in the outcome. Everybody played rather conservative. We made more errors than they did in that crucial moment. That's why they won. 
 Unfortunately for us. But the beauty about the tournament, this particular tournament, it's a round robin. In our group, we're in good position. We still got another match to go. We look forward to playing good tennis and hopefully coming through to the semifinals. 

 Q. How do you pick yourself up going into the final group match? 
 MAX MIRNYI: I mean, we have so many good things happened in the match today. Despite the losing outcome, we feel good about our game. We know our opponents. We just need to come out focused and do what we do best. Hopefully it's going to be enough on Friday. 

 Q. Is it possible that you can describe the character of Oliver Marach, Andy? 
 ANDY RAM: Well, first of all, he's a nice guy, good friend outside the court. On the court, he's very passionate to win, pumping himself in the crucial moments. I like it. It's kind of what happened to win the match today. 
 Oliver is a great player. A great forehand, groundstroke. Yeah, they deserve to be here. I lost the word in English. But I believe they can go far together. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT