TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 18, 2006
Jonas Bjorkman
Max Mirnyi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 Q.  Was that as exciting to play as it was to watch? 
 JONAS BJORKMAN:  Yeah, I have to say that.  It's not often you play matches with such a good quality that went almost like all four are playing their best tennis.  You know, it was a great crowd, as well.  Really got into it.  I think they really appreciate it and gave us the nice support of the good doubles. 
 So that was very exciting. 

 Q.  Not to cause any trouble, but can you get that level of excitement and everything in the super tiebreaker kind of match, or am I crazy thinking that you can't? 
 MAX MIRNYI:  Well, you know, this was in a way a different league because there was so much at stake to play for.  Not only it's the tournament that we're playing at, but it's also sort of bitter feelings because we lost to them the finals of the US Open not too long ago. 
 That all taken into consideration, you know, made it so special just to play.  The longer the match went on, the more painful it would have been to lose the match, seems like. 
 So I don't know if you could have gotten the same intensity.  Well, first of all, time-wise, it wouldn't have been as long.  To answer your question, probably this format really made it to the fullest the whole emotion of the match. 

 Q.  What about tomorrow's final?  Is it going to be more difficult than today's match? 
 JONAS BJORKMAN:  Well, I think we just have to keep up the same level of tennis, what we have done in the past matches. 
 If you look at the matchup we had in the group against Knowles and Nestor, it was very close, and we played for 2 hours and 45 minutes, I think. 
 Yes, I think we're gonna have a really close final.  Two teams is playing really good tennis now.  I think it's been -- most of the teams been playing well here, but definitely these two teams have been very consistent.  So, you know, we've got to maybe even step up one extra knot for tomorrow. 

 Q.  Jonas, was that more mentally draining rather than physically draining, that match?  Did it take a lot out of you guys mentally? 
 JONAS BJORKMAN:  I think it was good for us because we used to play even singles and doubles the same day.  And this was a good workout both mentally and physically.  Yeah, I mean, when it gets that tight in a match like today, you know, obviously it's gonna take a lot of -- a big effort to come through.  The good part is that we used to this situation to play a lot, so I don't think it's gonna be any problems for tomorrow. 
 We will feel pretty fresh and sharp, and hopefully we can continue the same run. 

 Q.  Last year Santoro and Llodra, they are the champion.  They took off their shoes and threw it to the crowd.  So if tomorrow you wins, what kind of behavior will you do for celebration to all the audience? 
 MAX MIRNYI:  We don't have a high-profile producer traveling with us to set up those moments, so, you know, we'll go with the flow and depending on how the match goes.  I think it will be all natural. 

 Q.  Jonas, once you mentioned that you wanted to hire your son Max as a mentor.  So I want to know, have you shared your opinions during this tournament?  If so, what's his suggestions for you? 
 JONAS BJORKMAN:  He hasn't had too much interest in me the last week purely because I have been away quite a lot.  I think I need to catch up a lot of days so he will feel comfortable and maybe help me out with some tricks for the tennis. 
 But at the moment, you know, he's more satisfied with his cars and his own tennis racquet back home and enjoying that.  Then hopefully I can catch up with him next week. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT