WESTERN & SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 20, 2006
Jonas Bjorkman
Max Mirnyi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 Q.  Did it take you a minute to find your rhythm? 
 JONAS BJORKMAN:  I think Max was playing good in the beginning.  I played decent.  I just screwed up in Max's service game. 
 Bob and Mike is very good frontrunners, so you can't really do that against any team, but especially not against Bob and Mike.  I totally screwed up, and that was unfortunate. 
 But we showed strength in the team again that, you know, it's always best-of-three sets.  We managed to keep going.  We are working on our game.  Played our best in the last -- end of the second and in the tiebreaker. 

 Q.  Your thoughts on repeating a win?  Hasn't been repeated since 1930, I think. 
 JONAS BJORKMAN:  Just heard that, yeah, it's good. 
 MAX MIRNYI:  Well, just, you know, once you're playing, you never think of things like that, you know.  It's nice being part of history, but in the spur of the moment, there are other things you take care of. 
 Today was a difficult team for us to face, especially the confidence that they gained.  So it's nice to be in the history book in that regard, but, you know, it's not what you play for in a way. 

 Q.  They entered the tournament on quite a bit of a roll.  They had won a lot of matches.  You guys have beaten them three times now.  Any reason for that?  Just comfortable playing with them? 
 JONAS BJORKMAN:  Yeah, I think if you look at the history last year, this was No. 1, No. 2 team in the world, and this year again.  You know, for us, last week it was the first one we played together since Wimby, so... 
 We obviously don't play as much because we play singles, as well. 
 It's a good rivalry, I think.  It's a little bit like the Nadal-Federer on the singles.  We've been having great matches.  We been winning the last three now.  Last year they won some, we won some, and I think it always is a very high quality of tennis.  I think people enjoy it, to watch. 

 Q.  You guys are different than the Bryans because you do play singles.  Do you think of yourself as a singles player, doubles players?  Does that change? 
 MAX MIRNYI:  Well, it's different because, you know, certainly we've had more wins in doubles.  But with the way we grew up from the very junior age up until now, you know, there's always been a priority in getting ready for singles matches and trying to do the best we can on the singles court. 
 But the doubles for myself as well as Jonas has been a big part of our careers and a great addition to our styles of tennis.  Working on our serves and coming forward and attacking returns is what we do a lot on the singles court, so it's been a combination that worked great for Jonas, and I'm still working on, you know, getting up to the standard of Jonas' singles career. 
 It's been a good combination for us.  You know, some say that, you know, I was called a "mixed doubles specialist" early in my career, but, you know, it's a part of my athletic career.  As long as I could be remembered as a specialist at something, it's good already. 

 Q.  Jonas, in your singles match you hit a forehand, and I saw you on your back.  Are you feeling okay? 
 JONAS BJORKMAN:  Yeah.  Yeah, much better.  Obviously, I had treatment for two days, didn't do anything.  But then they managed to manipulate my back and managed to have a little pop in the end.  So with a lot of treatment, I managed to start slowly and get some doubles in and been feeling much better now.  I'm still very stiff before and after matches, but hopefully it shouldn't be anything serious. 
 You know, it was too bad, because I felt really good in the match and played some good tennis.  I think I would have had some good opportunities in the week. 
 But I'm very happy with the way the week ended.  I didn't know that I was going to be able to play, and now sitting here, winning the doubles again, you know, it's a lot of confidence going into next week. 

 Q.  I'm sure you guys have played a lot of the match tiebreakers this season.  How does the match change once you get to that third-set tiebreaker? 
 JONAS BJORKMAN:  Well, it's obviously -- you can't really take advantage of the momentum you built from the second set maybe normally going into the third.  Now it's just a shootout more or less.  Every point is important, and just gonna be aggressive and take your chances.  You can't really hope the other guy's gonna miss, you got to try to come up with the goods.  It's quite an interesting finish of a match, I think. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT