NASDAQ-100 OPEN
April 2, 2005
Max Mirnyi
Jonas Bjorkman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. How nice is that, to get your first title together? 
 
 MAX MIRNYI: Well, I guess it's a confirmation, a reassurance of us being somewhat a prominent team. It's good to be playing well and have good expectations, but it's the other thing of winning a major title like this one. So we've known each other for such a long time, but it's finally good to win one together.  
 
Q. What makes you a good duo? How do you complement each other? 
 
 MAX MIRNYI: I think we're just competitive enough where our game's good enough to the point where if we put that togetther, we become a tough team. So we tend to communicate well on the court, which is always a success for a good doubles team.  
 
Q. Last year you lost to those guys. 
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: Yeah, yeah.  
 
Q. You seemed a little bit upset afterwards. 
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: Yeah.  
 
Q. Can you talk about how nice it is to come back. 
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: It's sweet. Obviously, you always want to win every tournament, and I never won here before. Last year was the third time I was a runner-up, so obviously I was disappointed when I couldn't get through. So, you know, it's always sweet when you finally get a tournament like this one. This is a major tournament you want to win, so it's an extra special feeling, sort of.  
 
Q. Can you talk a little bit about today's match. 
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: Well, we got off to a good start. I mean, Kev and Wayne are having a good start of the year, so they've had a lot of confidence; we knew that. But they're a tough team, because they're very good front-runners. So we knew we had to sort of be sharp from the beginning. We got that first break, which was important, and then from that on we saw the ball very clear today. We didn't make too many unforced errors, and played very solid in our service games. So everything sort of clicked. Put all the things together well today and took advantage of our chances.  
 
Q. Now I see that you lost to them in three sets in Indian Wells a few weeks ago; you were hoping to learn from that. Is that right? 
 
 JONAS BJORKMAN: No, that was Knowles-Nestor.  
 
Q. Oh, I'm sorry. I don't know this, how much money do you win? 
 
Q. Do you know how much? 
 
 MAX MIRNYI: I think it differs because this is a bigger draw; I'm not sure.  
 
Q. Does anybody do doubles at all for the money, or is that why some of the other guys might do it? 
 
 MAX MIRNYI: No, there's certainly -- it's paid for, is that what you're asking, if it pays to play?  
 
Q. Not everybody plays doubles, right? 
 
 JJONAS BJORKMAN: Well, it's.. These days, every singles and double player almost play.  
 MAX MIRNYI: It's just a difficult commitment to make to play a schedule of doubles and schedule of singles at the same time. So most of the time you see either guys playing only doubles or guys playing only singles. It's tough to combine the two together. Jonas and I, for the past couple of years, have been always playing both schedules. It's also another reason why we were able to be successful this week, because we physically maybe have an extra edge over other teams.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT