WESTERN AND SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 3, 2004
Max Mirnyi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Up 5-4 in that tiebreak in the second, what happened there for you? 
 
 MAX MIRNYI: Well, I guess it's a result of him being where he is right now. He's very confident when he has to, very productive in the pressure situation, and he showed that today. He was able to not only make a return at 5-4, but make a very good one where I couldn't get to with my long reach. So credit goes out to him. But on the other hand, I didn't make my first serve there. And, you know, there are many "ifs" and "buts" now, now that I've lost, but at the moment I decided to make that play, and that's what I came out with.  
 
Q. Did you feel him rise in confidence at that point, maybe a turning point for him? 
 
 MAX MIRNYI: Well, I guess for anybody it's quite natural when you're leading the whole way. And, you know, I had many opportunities. I had three times where I was leading a mini-break in the tiebreaker and didn't capitalize on that. And then of course him having the weapons that he has, he very much relies on his serves and at times very good return. I was unable to keep focus for the rest of the third set. But overall I'm pretty satisfied because over the course of last two weeks I've played two of the top guys in the game right now and I've had chances in both matches. So it's disappointing, but at the same time I got to look forward to many more matches to come and hopefully take my chances.  
 
Q. You were up 30-40 in that third set in the ninth game where you had the breakpoint. 
 
 MAX MIRNYI: That's right.  
 
Q. He comes back and he gets like seven straight points. Was that just you kind of -- you just couldn't get back over that hump again? 
 
 MAX MIRNYI: Well, to be honest, I wasn't counting points; I was just trying to play point by point. But at the time when he was down a breakpoint there again, he came up with I think one of the bigger serves of the night miles-wise. And it was very difficult for me to react to it. It was a very fast serve, very deep in the box. I didn't make a play on it. So then again, he was still on his serve and I just -- I was feeling that my focus was shifting away. That's unfortunate because I would have liked to have him serve out the match.  
 
Q. You mentioned the match last week with Roger. You lost a few in a row coming into Canada. Are you feeling that you've kind of turned a corner, though, and are back on the rise? 
 
 MAX MIRNYI: Well, I feel my game is on, you know. This time of year I've normally been playing a lot of matches - singles, doubles. And over the course of last five, six years, Cincinnati and Canada has been very good tournaments for me. You know, unfortunately, draw-wise, I had to play two of the top guys of the game. I couldn't beat them at this time even though I have some wins over the top players in the game. So, you know, they're playing well right now. I still have to look to improve on some of my aspects of my game. Get my first volley maybe more aggressive, you know. In the tiebreaker there towards the end, I didn't make that first serve. You know, it doesn't take much at this level. Unfortunately, we were out there for two, two-plus hours, and to come away with a loss, it's a tough thing. But, you know, at the end of the day it's just a game. There were many people watching, and I hope it was a good evening for many spectators.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT