US OPEN
September 2, 2001
Max Mirnyi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Two sets up. What happened in the third set? 
 
 MAX MIRNYI: In which set?  
 
Q. What happened in the third set that you didn't do? 
 
 MAX MIRNYI: Nothing really happened. I think the third set and the fourth set was really similar to the first and second set. I felt like my chances were as high of winning the third set as they were winning, you know, first and second set. I don't see anything wrong there. Looked like Guga served well today. I didn't have many opportunities of breaking him. First four sets went very even. Then he got on my serve a little bit better, won the fifth set.  
 
Q. Do you think your tennis has improved from last year? 
 
 MAX MIRNYI: I think so, yes. I've worked on several elements of my game over the course of probably last couple months. You know, this was a perfect match for me to put it through a test. You know, I used the shots that I wanted to hit today. You know, some of them didn't go in; some of them weren't as penetrating as I'd like. But I'm satisfied with the fact that I've put it through a test. I have to move on and keep working on what I have to do.  
 
Q. Can you talk about Guga's tenacity, his unwillingness to give up? 
 
 MAX MIRNYI: Well, there's a reason why he's No. 1. He's won many matches of this type over the course of the last couple years, therefore he's at the top of the game right now. You know, if he wouldn't be doing this, he wouldn't be No. 1. So going into the match I knew that this was going to be the case. I wasn't surprised with him, you know, keep fighting.  
 
Q. Do you think he gets enough credit for his ability on the hard court? 
 
 MAX MIRNYI: Well, surely nowadays, having done well in Masters Series tournament in Cincinnati a few weeks ago, you know, having won a couple rounds here, I'm sure that everybody's aware of his form. I think he gets enough credit.  
 
Q. Have you ever played a better match? Can you appreciate the quality of play that this match really sustained from beginning to end? 
 
 MAX MIRNYI: Oh, I think I've played better matches. Every match is different from another. You know, circumstances are different. Different cities, different surfaces, different balls, so on. As of today, I feel satisfied. I've played overall consistent tennis. I didn't have too many ups and downs, even though the match went over three hours. That's what I want to do with my game. If I can have more consistency like that day in and day out, I will improve.  
 
End of FastScripts.... 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT