BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 5, 2012
Max Mirnyi
Daniel Nestor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MIRNYI‑NESTOR/Lindstedt‑Tecau
  4‑6, 7‑6, 12‑10 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You have been in a few of these finals.   How tough was that start?   
DANIEL NESTOR:   Yeah, all credit to our opponents, they were playing great.   Didn't give us many chances on their serve.   We got a couple at the end of the second.   But they were the better team for about a set and three‑quarters.   We were just trying to hang on in the second.   We did a good job of that.   
Then the match slowly started to shift.   We created a few more opportunities.   I thought they still played pretty well.   We just raised our level.  
   
 Q.   How did you switch it around in the start of the second set tiebreaker?  
DANIEL NESTOR:   I guess a few more looks at second serves, they did a few more unforced errors than they were doing.   We got ahead of them.   They started thinking about the third set.   
We got off to a good start in the third set tiebreaker, but then let them back in.   But from 4‑All, it was pretty even.   
   
 Q.   How important is it to win in your 'going out' edition, as it were?   You've both been here many times before.   
MAX MIRNYI:   Well, I think us playing tennis tournaments, we don't get to be part of this format where you play groups, you could still get through even if you lose.   
I think it's more natural for us to come out and win every match we can.   Today there was no difference.   Obviously it's better to win than lose.   But we'd rather be on the winning end.   Obviously we can continue that way just for overall perception and confidence going forward.   
   
 Q.   Danny, you've been on winning teams four out of the last five.   How important would this one be down the road?   
DANIEL NESTOR:   Well, I mean, they're all important.   It's especially important for us to finish strong because we haven't played our best in the last few months (laughter).   He loves when I bring this up.   
But today we came through and played well as a team ‑ something we haven't done for a few months.   Hopefully that carries over to the next match.   
   
 Q.   Some of the singles guys were talking about having the tournament here.   Some say they want to keep it here.   Others said they would like to see it move around and promote the sport in different parts of the world.   Where do you stand on that in terms of promotion, calendar?   Do you think this is where it should be or see it somewhere else?  
DANIEL NESTOR:   I love it here, so that's my choice.   I love playing here.   I think it's very convenient.   Considering the indoor season is in Europe, it just makes sense.   
It's also a great venue.   It's not that it's just convenience, they do an amazing job.   It's an amazing place to play.   I don't think you could find any complaints from any of the players.   
MAX MIRNYI:   From a marketing point of view, I think this would be the ultimate place, the easiest for all different time zones.   It's English spoken.   Plus, like Daniel said, the venue is far better than we've played anywhere else.   
The coverage with the TV and the fans are very knowledgeable, so I think it all speaks for itself.   If it works out to be that we continue to stay here, I'd be very excited because I think it's very great for the game.   
   
 Q.   How important is it to play in front of these big crowds?   Only about four times a year you get a big crowd.   Does that make a difference?   
DANIEL NESTOR:   I mean, we do play sometimes in front of big crowds, Davis Cup or some Grand Slams.   
But, yeah, it's always nice.   We like playing in front of good crowds, especially ones that appreciate tennis.   They know their tennis here in England, so that makes it more special.   
MAX MIRNYI:   Not often you're going to get this many thousands of people be quiet and know when to clap and what to say and when not to say.   It's pretty amazing, it being so big, so crowded, but yet so quiet.   
   
 Q.   Are you aware of the change in the rankings today?   
DANIEL NESTOR:   Mike getting the extra points for Davis Cup?   I don't really care.   They should do what's better for them.   I think it's only fair.   They played so many years together, to have the record together.   Especially if Mike wants to give it up.   
If I was in a partnership, I would never do that.   But Mike's a nice guy.   He wants to give it up and share that with his brother.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT