LONDON 2012 OLYMPIC GAMES
August 5, 2012
Victoria Azarenka
Max Mirnyi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MIRNYI‑AZARENKA/Murray‑Robson
  2‑6, 6‑3, 10‑8 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Victoria, how does this achievement compare with being No.1 and winning a Grand Slam?   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   It's definitely very different emotions and very different accomplishment.   The feeling I had yesterday on the court, just also winning a bronze, it was absolutely amazing.   
You know, it's been a dream come through for me to achieve gold because I think every athlete in the world is dreaming about this prize to get.   You don't get so many chances.   
In the Grand Slams, you kind of have a few more.   But definitely I'm really proud of all of those achievements, but this is definitely something special.   
   
 Q.   Was it quite difficult facing the two Brits, but the crowd as well?   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Well, it wasn't easy, for sure.   But it was expected, you know.   
I mean, if we would come on the court in London and everybody would be cheering for us, would be kind of weird, right?   
We just tried to focus and tried to get one of the chances because they were playing absolutely amazing.   We just tried to stay and fight as much as we could.   Once we had the chance, we were just really focused on that.   
   
 Q.   Obviously Belarus doesn't have quite so many medals.   Pretty proud moment for your country.  
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   Well, it was so important for us, you know.   The Olympic Games was definitely one of the main starts for the whole year we were preparing for.   For us, for me, I'm just so overwhelmed with all the emotions.   It's amazing, seriously.   
   
 Q.   Does perhaps the venue as well, the fact you've won the gold medal on Centre Court in Wimbledon, mean more perhaps had it just been another tennis event somewhere in another country?   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I just love how you guys turn it around, the British.   If we're in England, it has to be special (laughter).   
But it definitely is a special moment.   I don't think there's ever going to be another Olympic Games in such a venue.   So it's definitely a very special moment.   
I mean, Max, a few words, please.   
MAX MIRNYI:   Well, it certainly adds an extra spice to the tournament, it being at Wimbledon.   I actually said to some of our friends from the delegation, we saw the courts been laid out at the village.   I was wondering, When was the decision made for Wimbledon to host the tournament?   
Nevertheless, you know, it was tough to get out here from the village.   It took not less than an hour to get out here every time.   It's just an occasion you come from Wimbledon, and two weeks later you're coming back playing at something that is probably more important than Wimbledon.   
It was unique in many different ways.   It's a much more congested tournament.   You still have the same field, same favorites, same leaders of doubles, singles, but everything is much more combusted [sic] because you don't get your days off.   Victoria had to play three matches on some days.   I knew how physically demanding that is.   
Like I said, being at Wimbledon, it adds a little more pressure.   
   
 Q.   Most of the best men and women players have turned out to play in this Olympic Games.   Do you expect a similar showing in Rio or is it impossible to say?   
MAX MIRNYI:   I heard that they're probably going to award more points for Rio than here, so I don't see any reason why not.   
Again, it's an historical event.   There's never been an Olympics in South America, am I right?   So from that respect, someone that special who is going to win a gold there, is going to be remembered as a unique champion.   
Again, it happening every four years makes it so tough to win, so challenging to win, puts so much pressure on the athletes to do it there.   Plus if the ITF awards points as they do for this tournament, I don't see any reason why it shouldn't be as strong.   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   I always wanted to visit Brazil, so I'm definitely going.  
   
 Q.   The gold medal apart, as an image, seeing the Belarus flag being waved in the Royal Box, must have been an inspiration.   You don't see that every day.   
VICTORIA AZARENKA:   No, we don't.   But there's more and more coming to the tournaments, which is also amazing to see, more motivation, inspiration to have while you're playing.   
But, I don't know, just so happy.   I can't wait to hear the anthem on the ceremony.   At least I won't grab the flowers too early now (laughter).   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT