MLB WORLD SERIES: GIANTS v ANGELS
October 20, 2002
Robb Nen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Last time you were in a World Series you hit 100 miles an hour on the radar gun and got everybody excited.  I guess those days are gone, but you're still very successful.  Why is that?
 
ROBB NEN:  I think I've learned how to pitch a little bit.  Back then, I was kind of somebody that had a good arm that could go out and throw the ball right by somebody.  Right now I've lost a little velocity, so I go out there and I've learned how to pitch, set guys up a little bit and get them off balance. 
 
Q.  This has been a great bullpen all season.  Is this the best bullpen you've ever been a part of?  Why has this one been so successful?
 
ROBB NEN:  This is one of the best I've been on.  There's so much depth, you got guys that can do everything, from guys who can close, from Worrell and Rodriguez, those guys who can set up and do the same thing.  You got Zerbe and Fultzy down there and Eyre who have done great jobs.  Any time you can mix and match the way we do down there, Dusty can use the bullpen the way he can, it makes it easier for us.  
 
Q.  Did the layoff help you at all?  You seemed more comfortable?
 
ROBB NEN:  I felt awkward out there a little bit, for the most part.  For me, I'm a guy that likes to go out and pitch a lot and not have a whole lot of days off.  Even during the season, when I get days off, I feel cranky the next day.  I was lucky, I felt pretty good, was in the strike zone yesterday.  Hopefully, we can keep that up for the next couple days.  
 
Q.  What is your impression of the Angels so far?  Secondly, what do you see happening when the series gets to San Francisco, if anything at all? 
 
ROBB NEN:  I definitely think they're one of the best line-up I've seen, from one to nine, you start off with the guys who can get on base and then you go through the heart of the order that can hit you out of the park, with Glaus and Salmon, all those guys.  It's a tough line-up.  It's something you have to go out and make your pitches and hopefully get ahead of them and have  -- make some mistakes.  Get them off balance, have them pop the ball up or do whatever.  As far as the series, they're definitely not going to roll over.  They're going to be tough, go out there and battle.  Like you said, they've lost the first game of every series.  So they're not going to give in and they're not going to be a pushover. 
 
Q.  According to the Angels' press notes, you were pitching here a couple years ago the first time the rally monkey came on the scene, this historic moment.  Do you remember it?  Did it impact you in any way knowing what was going on behind you? 
 
ROBB NEN:  Nope.  I mean, I remember the game but I don't remember the rally monkey.  If it started then, great.  But I don't remember it.  I don't remember.  I've blown a lot of games in my career, and I know that's going to happen.  If that's what came out with the rally monkey, great.  It's good for the fans, good for whatever. 
 
Q.  Derek Jeter, when he came here a couple weeks ago, was laughing about the monkey.  When you sit in the bullpen, do you observe it?  Is it part of the blur? 
 
ROBB NEN:  Well, you definitely observe it.  You see him, they put it up on the board, you see everybody carrying him, throwing him up-and-down, all that stuff.  It's good for the game.  The fans enjoy it.  This game is for the fans.  As long as they enjoy it and they go out and have fun with it, I think it's great.  If it motivates them, even better.  
 
Q.  In the postseason, Rodriguez and Worrell are 15 out of 16 in retiring the first batter they face.  How big is that for a reliever to come out and get the first guy? 
 
ROBB NEN:  I think that's the key to any game, is going out and getting the first guy out.  If you can throw strikes, throw strike one and go out and get the first batter, everything seems to be a little bit easier.  Not always is, but if you go out there and get that guy, if you give up the one-out hit, it still takes two hits to get him home.  
 
Q.  Going by the media guy, it looks like you have a couple player options coming up.  Have you thought much about what you want to do?
 
ROBB NEN:  No, you know what, I've got other things to worry about right now.  We have one task at hand, to help this team win the World Series.  I'll worry about that when the time comes.  
 
Q.  Troy Percival was in here the other day talking about the fact that you and he seem to get along pretty well.  He says you talked during spring training.  Were there some tips exchanged or anything about philosophy of relief pitching?  What do you guys talk about when you're getting together? 
 
ROBB NEN:  I think we're similar pitchers.  We both go out there and throw hard and get ahead of guys and challenge guys.  I enjoy talking to guys that do that, kind of their mindset.  We don't talk about how to get people out, it's just a bond between us that we kind of hang out.  I enjoy watching him.  He's a guy that when he comes in, he's hair flying and balls flying and all that stuff.  So it's  -- just kind of reminds me of myself sometimes, so it's fun to watch.  
 
Q.  Can you say what effect, if any, Dusty's situation has had on you individually or on the players, in general, as the year's gone on? 
 
ROBB NEN:  Well, he's definitely a player's manager.  He's a guy that doesn't put added pressure on you.  I think this game, there's enough pressure on you to succeed.  Any time a manager goes out and puts added pressure, makes it tough.  When you're struggling or doing great, he still puts you in the same situation and always gives you confidence of, "Hey, this is your spot.  This is where we need you.  This is what you need to do for us."  He's a great guy, a guy that really understands the game, has played the game and really has done everything.  
 
Q.  When you're on, you can be virtually unhittable.  In August, when you had the down stretch, I guess, what was off for you?  How frustrating and difficult was that time? 
 
ROBB NEN:  Well, frustrating.  Every part of the year, I've always gone through a week or so where I struggled.  This year it was worse.  I don't know if I put more pressure on myself to go out and try to  -- I think it was right around when I was getting saves.  I don't know if I was doing too much.  There's times I get out of whack with my mechanics and get myself thinking too much.  When that happens, I get in trouble.  One of these days I'll learn not to think and just go out there and throw the ball. 
 
Q.  Can you compare last night to the '97 World Series?  Was it different?  How did it compare?
 
ROBB NEN:  I think in '97 I didn't know what to expect.  I think I was still kind of fresh at doing the job and trying to figure out, especially being in the World Series.  Last night was a little more of a calming effect, going out there and realizing it's still a game, you still got to go out, throw strikes, get ahead of people and make outs.  It wasn't easy.  It never is.  But you kind of know what to expect a little bit.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT