VOLVO MONTE-CARLO OPEN
April 26, 1995
Claude Couderc
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
DR. COUDERC:  First, you might be wondering  why we have been so long in giving you information,  but, you know, that Sampras had a problem with a  sprained ankle and we wanted to see the X-rays before  giving you any precise information.  So first of all, I can tell you that the  diagnosis is reassuring.  We were afraid, given the  pain he was feeling, that there would be a break, a  fracture, and this is not the case.  So it is a sprained ankle.  It is difficult  to evaluate exactly how bad it is, because he feels a  lot of pain.  And then we practiced an IRM and we saw  that it was an anterior sprain in the ankle.  It is not  an external one and not an internal one.  I saw the movement on TV with his foot and I  can tell you that the foot went in a forward movement  and this extended the capsule.  And there is a bruise  at that level and we don't know whether it is torn or  not.  So with the IRM we also were able to see that  there is a lesion for the flexive tendons because, as  you know, the foot has two different movements; one is  an extensive movement, the other one is a flexive  movement.  And there is a lesion for the flexive  tendons, a small one.   
 

Q.  Is it in your opinion a small sprained  ankle,, an average sprained ankle, or a big one?  
 
DR. COUDERC: For me, it is an average one.  The problem with that type of problem is that it might  lead to an instability of the ankle later on.  And  normally, I can say for this particular injury, it  shouldn't bring instability, but the problem is that it  is very painful.  And the question is to know how to  cure him as soon as possible so he can run again and  play again.  I know that the questions that all the  doctors ask themselves and the journalists is to know  for how long will he be stopped.  But in two hours we  were able to make an X-ray, a scanner, and echography,  and IRM, so we have been efficient.  It is difficult  for the time being to say whether it is going to last  one week, two weeks or three weeks.   
 

Q.  But you don't have a time span?  
 
DR. COUDERC: I would say he will have to rest  completely for two weeks.   
 

Q.  Did you say that to Pete and did he react in  any way or did somebody tell him that?  
 
DR. COUDERC: I didn't leave him for the past  hours and we didn't talk about the rest yet.  But I  think he knows it is going to be about two weeks.  It  is an average.  The problem for him is to know whether  he stays here or whether he goes back to the United  States.  I think he will rapidly go back to the United  States because he knows he is going to be outside the  tournaments for two weeks and therefore he will spend  his time getting cured.  But I advised him to stay here for the first  days because in 24 hours, 48 hours, we can help him to  avoid the bruise around the ankle and he will recover a  lot better if we do that.  And I told him it was better  that he did not go into a plane tomorrow.  But of  course, it is up do him to decide.   
 

Q.  Was the bruise very big for the time being?  
 
DR. COUDERC: I can tell you that we saw that  it was 15 millimeters wide, but the examination was  taken one hour after the injury and we did everything  we could to limit the extension of this bruise.  And I  can't tell you now if it has spread or if it stayed the  same.   
 

Q.  Is his ankle maintained by a strapping for  the time being?  
 
DR. COUDERC: Well, we are doing icing and  strapping in order to maintain his ankle straight.  We  advised him to use crutches so that he wouldn't use his  foot in order not to make the bruise worse, and we  called that a relative immobilization.   
 

Q.  When was the last time you saw him and was he  still in pain at that time?  
 
DR. COUDERC:  I saw him a quarter of an hour  ago and the pain was decreaseing, but it was still  there.  It is typical from this kind of injury.  You  saw him try to walk on the court; normally sometimes we  can put a tape on and the player can continue playing  for a little while.  But in this case, the pain was so  acute that he had a partial impossibility to walk.  And  we saw that he had trouble taking his shoe off.  Of  course, now we are reassured by the X-ray, so it is  better.  We will give you more information tomorrow.     
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT