NCAA MEN'S FINAL FOUR
March 31, 2000
Dick Bennett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 COACH BENNETT: Well, I've kind of run out of opening comments. So I will just say that
this is where I'd always wanted to be, and I think the players feel the same at this time
of the year, and we're here, so you can imagine the thrill, excitement, satisfaction. I'd
be happy to answer any questions. 
 
Q. Are you and your players of the opinion that you have to play a perfect game to beat
Michigan state?
 
 COACH BENNETT: Well, I know we have to play a very good game, Tom. I don't want to
stress them out with the notion that they have to be perfect. Because I think that when
you start thinking you have to be perfect, it's tightness and unnecessary pressures added.
We have to play very well; we know that. And if that isn't enough, then it won't be enough
because I doubt whether a perfect game is possible. 
 
Q. Coach, after all the -- after all of the hoopla earlier in the week, Kent Randall,
everything that's gone on this week, do you get a sense that they put that past them, that
they're ready to play tomorrow or are they just happy to be here?
 
 COACH BENNETT: Well, what we've talked about, and I think they've tried to do, is to
almost develop a split personality, to be able to step outside of themselves, to enjoy
everything that's happening. Because you don't want to go through an experience like this
and miss it. So we've said that part of you, that objective-observer side of you is right
to indulge, just enjoy it. Then when you step on the floor, we're getting ready for
practice or a game, then you got to go into your other personality, the one, the real one
that got you here, your basketball personality. If you can do that, if you can remember
who you are and where you are, you'll be okay. We've talked quite a bit about that. These
are very bright kids. I think they've tried to do that. If the very best they can do is
just enjoy it a bit, that's okay, too. I don't want them down here remembering this
experience as a difficult time. 
 
Q. Until this year, your only NCAA Tournament win as a coach was with University of
Wisconsin - Green Bay. You beat a Cal team that had Jason Kidd and Lamont Murray. What can
you tell me about the game, what do you remember about that game?
 
 COACH BENNETT: Well, it was the first round, and that particular group had a great deal
of confidence. It was really a good ballclub, and we knew we were far better than anyone
was giving us credit for being. That club carried that knowledge. I think what happened
which has not really happened since and I know wouldn't happen down here, is the Cal
coaches had their kids prepared. They knew about us, but the kids just didn't buy in
totally; you could tell. The first ten minutes of the game we just were playing at a
different intensity level than they were. And so we got the lead and hung on to win the
game. So we've had -- I had a lot of close -- in fact the NCAA was against Michigan State,
back when my son played and they beat us on a Steve Smith buzzer beater, then we lost to
Purdue by one also at Green Bay. So we've been in some good games. 
 
Q. Coach, what makes Michigan State such an effective defensive team?
 
 COACH BENNETT: Well, they don't give any easy baskets, rarely does that happen. They
give you one shot; they don't give you a second shot very often. And their quickness,
their overall team quickness and reaction and positioning cuts down your comfort time. You
get so much time to get a shot in terms of receiving the ball and getting a look at the
rim. I think they have reduced that more than any team we've played. You get so little
time, you've got to make good. You have to do everything right to get that look at the
basket, and then they cut into it. They're in your face so quickly that they affect your
percentage. I think that's about their defense, which is so effective. 
 
Q. Coach, is your team lacking confidence at all having lost three times to the
Spartans this year?
 
 COACH BENNETT: No, this team does not lack confidence. That has seldom been a problem
for us. But if you're asking is there a seed of doubt, I would be lying if I spoke for
them and said there wasn't or if I spoke for myself. When a team beats you three times,
then you perhaps say that's a superior team. And we're aware of their strengths, and we're
aware of what we need to do. But we're not lacking confidence. Our confidence is in our
ability to play a good game. It's not necessarily in our ability to go out and whip
Michigan State. And so I think we have a confidence and we're in the right stuff. 
 
Q. Coach, could you talk a little bit about your recruiting philosophies, the kinds of
kids you want to get to play where and the style you want to play?
 
 COACH BENNETT: Well, we would like to get the best player we can. And in rebuilding
programs -- and I've been involved in that at all levels -- you have to start somewhere.
And we started with the notion that we wanted to get guys who were good players, had
tremendous attitudes, who would be there for four years. We thought if we could do that,
we could mold them into the kind of team that would become competitive, as this group has
in basically it's -- for most of them, the nucleus is the junior class. They've done just
that. We thought if we achieved that, that would open some doors for us. The one area that
we will not sacrifice is attitude. We would like to get guys who are gifted physically,
who are skilled, and, of course, have a great attitude. But sometimes we've had to
sacrifice in the skill and talent area to get the attitude. Now if this enables us to get
even more physical ability and more skill with the great attitude, then we will have done
what we wanted to do. 
 
Q. You probably got a pretty extensive film library on these guys right now. Will you
approach this one any differently than the other three? Have you picked something up? Two,
aren't you sick of playing these guys by now?
 
 COACH BENNETT: Well, to answer the second part first, yes. I said in the teleconference
that back three years ago I could see what Tom was doing, and I admired it. I've known
Coach Izzo for a long time, I knew him when he was a player and I was coaching at Stevens
Point. I could see what he was doing, admired it and thought it was terrific. As I've
said, now I hate it. Because I am so impressed with how he has built this team. As far as
playing them, the -- it's more of an adjustment thing. There are certain things we need to
do better, certain ways we've got to defend them that might be better. But a change
philosophically is certainly not an issue. We need to be who we are. We need to make -- we
just need to do a few things a little better to be more competitive. And the last two
games have been relatively competitive. We've had our chances. 
 
Q. I was wondering if you've ever seen the movie Hoosiers, and do you draw any
comparison between your team and the situation they faced in that movie? Do you look
anything like Gene Hackman?
 
 COACH BENNETT: Me look like Gene Hackman? Well, I -- I've seen the movie, at least 17
or 18 times. (Laughter.) I had a copy, someone took it. I don't know where it is, probably
a media guy or something. (Laughter.) But I like Gene Hackman as an actor, always have. I
thought he was always good, especially good in that movie. That was a high school setting,
preparation. We practiced at Hinkle yesterday, that part, we didn't get the ladder out.
But I eyeballed the rim and it was 10 feet, I told the kids that, except we're not playing
there. I should have done it out here. But no, you know, I think that the basketball world
at the college level has grown smaller. I think there's less difference between the haves
and have-nots than ever before, because of all of the exposure. Kids now from all places
get to play, go to camps, get in the gyms in the summer, get good coaching. So I really
think that it's become a smaller basketball world, which is great for everyone. At the
high school level, it might be a little different because you can't choose; you have to
take the guys or girls who are there. And -- but the only comparison that I would say is
synonymous, I have an assistant coach like he had. (Laughter.) I'll let you figure out
which one. (Laughter.) 
 
Q. With the familiarity of the two teams, did you have to resist the temptation to do
some additional tinkering this week? And then also could you speak to the play of Jon
Bryant throughout the term?
 
 COACH BENNETT: There was an urge to come up with something different, I must admit. We
tinkered for a day or so and decided that it might water down something else. So we
didn't. We have made some adjustments, though. We really have. Jon Bryant has really come
on in the tournament. He's had a good year, good career. He's always been important to us,
but I, through no fault of Jon's, didn't use him as much as I should have down the stretch
and in the Big Ten Conference. That was my fault, an oversight. But I realized in the
Fresno State game how valuable he was, and he does play well defensively. And so since
that time, he has been given a lot of minutes where he can, you know, fit himself into the
game, and he has really delivered. And as I say, he probably would have done that on a
more consistent basis had he been given more consistent minutes during the year. That
happens to you when you have a lot of kids you think a lot of, and that's kind of where I
was. 
 
Q. Coach, can you talk about Michigan State's offense as far as stopping the streaks
that they've been known to go on, the 13 to 2, 15 to 5 runs. What do you tell your kids
about that?
 
 COACH BENNETT: I think that's because of their diversity. They run the ball so well,
and they rebound it so well out of their running game. And so you need to somehow get a
handle on that. But that could escape at any moment, any turnover, any defensive rebound,
off they go. But you somehow got to get them on the half court. Then if you do that, you
have to contain their little two-man plays which involve Mateen Cleaves and often a ball
screen, and that's tough to handle. He gets in the lane and then all of a sudden you've
got people trying to help on him, and it opens up rebounding lanes for their rebounders.
If you get a handle on that, then you've got -- you've got Peterson coming off a screen or
just stepping out, and just a little daylight and he's going to make three out of four
shots. Granger can do the same off the ball screen. Hudson has been tremendous inside, and
then there's, you know, the guy that's often forgotten, Charlie Bell, who, I think, does
as many little things as anyone can. So they have such diversity and they have so many
phases and sequence, sequences to their offensive attack, beginning with the runouts, the
offensive boards, the picks on the ball, the penetration, and then the multiple screens,
and then again the offensive rebounding. They are as complete as I can imagine a team can
be. 
 
Q. Is it accurate to say, going back to your answer on Jon Bryant, is it accurate to
say that the difference in your team now from the one that finished sixth in the Big Ten
is you've got more guys, specifically Bryant, making shots for you? Or is it more complex
than that?
 
 COACH BENNETT: Well, it's probably always a little more complex than that. But I think
that's -- we've had a lot of people play well in the tournament. There has been a
different guy at a different time, and that is certainly true. That's happened. But, you
know, the Big Ten, we were a good team pretty much all year because we had beaten some
good teams early in a nonconference schedule and played some good ball in the Big Ten even
in losses, but that's how deep the league was. I mean if we were the sixth best, it was
good enough to get us in the tournament and good enough to enable us to upset a number of
teams. The league was good, and it only served as a preparation, then, as you've
recognized, certain other players got more consistent time and made some shots. But I do
think that our league play did serve a very valuable purpose. 
 
Q. Is it tough to sell that defensive style first to kids nowadays? And as a second
part, is it annoying, disappointing, that your style has not been applauded more
nationally? And I'll spare the adjectives that have been thrown out there.
 
 COACH BENNETT: It's not hard to get kids to play defense. I think every good player
wants to play defense. He recognizes the value and the need to complete his game. That has
not nearly been as tough a sell as people realize. The toughest part of the defense is
once you make the commitment to it or offer lip service to it, you have to work on it. We
spent an enormous amount of time working defensively. As far as our recognition, that has
never really bothered me except in very painful moments when we -- we really labor to
score and then people will jump on that aspect of it and say we're so ugly. And maybe
offensively, it hasn't been good but it's always been pretty darn good defensively. And
I've always believed that good shot selection, taking care of the ball are important parts
of the game. And you do what you have to. If you can't make a play, if you can't break
somebody down individually, then you need some help with screens and movement and passing
and so on, and I don't know why that would be minimized when the object is to try to win
the game. And most people in this day and age are so bottom-line oriented anyhow, that
they say well, they should probably say, "That's what they have to do and they're
doing it, so let's give them credit for that," and as you get a little better, maybe
you do a little more. People that know us and follow us understand that. Our writers and
media people have been very supportive of that for the most part because they've seen us.
But people who don't see us but on that one Southwest Missouri game, for example, then
they have a tendency to oversimplify it. But I'm used to it. It doesn't bother me. I'll
trade the 35 years of criticism for this moment any day. 
 
End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT