LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 24, 2001
Jenny Lidback
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JENNY LIDBACK:  I started on 10, bogeyed 10, hit a 9-wood over the green, chipped it up to about 15 feet, missed it. 11, birdied 11 wood to about 15 feet and made it.  14, 9-iron to about -- I was on the back fringe so probably about a 20-footer.   15, 8-iron, ten feet.  16, pitching wedge, 13 feet.   No. 2 I had 3-wood back fringe, 2-putted for birdie.   No. 4, 8-iron to about six inches.  No. 5, 2-putted for birdie.  That was it. 
 
Q.  General thoughts on your round.  You have got to be pretty happy with the start obviously?
 
JENNY LIDBACK: Yeah, very much so.  I haven't shot in the 60s too much this year.  So this was really nice.  I have been working really hard on my swing and it was nice to see it pay-off today.  
 
Q.  Both you and Cindy, little reminiscent of last year with a nice early start?
 
JENNY LIDBACK: Cindy. 
 
Q.  Cindy Flom?
 
JENNY LIDBACK: Did she shoot 6-under too? 
 
Q.  4-under.
 
JENNY LIDBACK: Good round.  
 
Q.  Little reminiscent of last year?
 
JENNY LIDBACK: Yeah. 
 
Q.  How important is that for you guys to get off to that quick start?
 
JENNY LIDBACK: Well, hey, you take a low round any time, you know, especially with the weather kind of not too sure how it is going to be the next few days, and I know it is going to be colder.  That I know.  So I was just trying to get it as low as possible.  
 
Q.  Talking about the weather, you mentioned the fact that it is going to be pretty iffy.  If we get rain, which is looking to be pretty good likelihood, is that something that would be detrimental to your style of play or you think it's something that would be beneficial to your style of play?
 
JENNY LIDBACK: No, I like tough conditions.  I don't know, I think we are  -- we as LPGA players, are very good at playing in the rain.  Obviously it is not the easiest thing.  You hope you like your caddie because you spend an awful lot of time really close, but you know, I mean, I think it all depends on what the temperature is.  I am  -- I don't care for playing in the cold weather and I know it is going to be cooler.  So I'd prefer the warmer, for me the better it is.  
 
Q.  Your round today, do you think that the course conditions, which everybody is saying are really good, had an effect on your game or was it just you finding your swing or a combination?
 
JENNY LIDBACK: The course is in very good shape, absolutely.  And obviously I think weather conditions are pretty darn good today, but I did hit it well.  I think I hit 16 greens and you know, gave myself a lot of birdie chances.  
 
Q.  Talk about how good first round changes your outlook for the rest of the week?
 
JENNY LIDBACK: It really doesn't.  You just try to keep making birdies or try to shoot the best you can do.  
 
Q.  What was it like starting out with a bogey?
 
JENNY LIDBACK: Yeah, I know.  I hit a good drive, hit a good second shot.  I think we just -- my caddie and I just misjudged the wind and it was too much club and I just tried to tell myself, you know, it is like, okay, I mean, you have been hitting it well the last few days, you know, last few weeks, let's just try to forget about it, and it helped a lot that I made a birdie on the next hole because it just basically erased it right away.  So that helped. 
 
Q.  Tougher starting off like that on the back nine?
 
JENNY LIDBACK: No, one is not the easiest holed either.  It's not the easiest green to hit, I don't know about that.  On the front 9 at least you have a par 5 that you can  -- depending on the wind you can reach in two or for me, so which you don't have on the back nine.  So it is just kind of you just try to par the first hole, 1st or 10th hole. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT