U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
May 30, 1996
Jenny Lidback
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JENNY LIDBACK:  Well, I'm very happy with a 70.  It's very windy out there.  The rain has softened up the course a bit.  The greens are all right, they're not as hard.  But the wind is what's tough out there.

JENNY LIDBACK:  Bogeyed the second.  I hit it short of the green and hit a decent chip and missed a 3-footer for par.  Then I birdied 3.  Made about -- probably about a 15-footer for birdie.

JENNY LIDBACK:  I gripped a 7-iron.

JENNY LIDBACK:  A mental mistake.  That hole was played into the wind, at least it was when we played it.  It's extremely long. I had a 3-wood into the green.  I missed the green.  It was short and a little bit left in the thick rough, and I basically chunked it and made double.

JENNY LIDBACK:  Yes, I chipped on and had about an 8-footer for bogey, and I missed it.

JENNY LIDBACK:  Yes.  I gripped down on a 7-iron in there and had about a three or four-footer for birdie.

JENNY LIDBACK:  Yes.  Actually, it was a pretty good birdie.  I hit my tee shot in the fairway bunker, and had to hit a 6-iron out, basically straight out, and had a 5-iron to the green, and I hit a good shot and made about a 10-footer for birdie.

JENNY LIDBACK:  11, that's another one that was playing into the wind, and I hit a 7-wood and probably made about a 30 or 35-foot putt.

JENNY LIDBACK:  Yes.  I gripped down on a 5-iron for the green, and I don't know if the downhill lie got me or what, but it wasn't a good shot, and went into the right bunker.  Hit a good bunker shot, had about a 6-footer for par and missed it.

JENNY LIDBACK:  I think it's a great golf course.  It's very fair.  But you've got to keep it in play.  The rough is just unbelievably thick.  And it's a great golf course.  It is just a super site.

JENNY LIDBACK:  It's very long.  Somebody was just saying this morning that the last two or three years the Open course has been a little shorter than normal.  And not this year, this is definitely long.


Q.  What do you feel the key to today's round is?

JENNY LIDBACK:  I kept it in play.  What I mean by that is that my misses were good.  They were either just short of the green or on the first cut of the green.  So I had pretty easy chips.  I wouldn't  say easy, but I was in the short stuff.  Any time you're in the short stuff you've got a chance to get it up-and-down or stay with your -- around par.


Q.  How about your putting?

JENNY LIDBACK:  My putting was good.  I missed that three-footer on 2, and then on 18.  But other than that it was good.


Q.  How do you feel for the contention for this weekend?

JENNY LIDBACK:  Well, I'll just try to take it one day at a time.  We've got a long way to go.


Q.  How disappointing is it to finish with a bogey?  Obviously you'd like an up-swing going into the second round?

JENNY LIDBACK:  Yeah, it is disappointing.  You always want to finish on a high note.  But you've got to basically just think back that you shot 70 and played 16 good holes, other than my double. But you really -- any time you shoot 70 or even par on a U.S. Open course you should take it.

JENNY LIDBACK:  Yes.

JENNY LIDBACK:  Yes, that's right.

JENNY LIDBACK:  Yes, I am.  I haven't really played in too many Opens in my career, and I think this is my third one.  This is obviously my best first round, so I'm quite pleased.


Q.  I have some questions.  Compare this to your victory last year to the Maurier, you won the last major last year.  It was blowing wind there, I know.  Was there any comparison to here?

JENNY LIDBACK:  I remember the first day of Maurier was also blowing, and the scores weren't very low.  I don't know, I hope it's a similar situation.


Q.  I know there's no comparison to the golf course, because their course is burned up?

JENNY LIDBACK:  Right.  And this rough is thicker than du Maurier.  I think this course is longer than du Maurier, also.


Q.  Did you play a similar round today to what you played up there?

JENNY LIDBACK:  For the first day or all four rounds?


Q.  I thought up there you kept the ball in play, you didn't make big mistakes.  And when it was over you were the winner.  So I'm saying did you -- are you taking the same approach here?

JENNY LIDBACK:  Yes, I am.  Basically try to keep it in play. I'm trying to hit smart shots onto the greens.  Some greens they've got those edges that you've got it on the green, and then it rolls off.  So I'm trying to basically really concentrate on where I'm hitting my shots to the green.


Q.  Of the Opens you've played, is this a course that might fit your style of play better than some others?

JENNY LIDBACK:  Maybe.  It's hard to say.

JENNY LIDBACK:  Salem.

JENNY LIDBACK:  Yeah.

JENNY LIDBACK:  Crooked Stick.  I tend to like the old courses  better.  I just think they're wonderful.


Q.  Salem, wasn't that a Tillinghast course?


Q.  I was thinking back.  It was definitely an old-style golf course.

JENNY LIDBACK:  Yes.


Q.  And a traditional player won there.

JENNY LIDBACK:  Yes.


Q.  What I'm saying, you seem to play your best golf in this kind of environment, obviously.

JENNY LIDBACK:  Somebody asked me that, and I don't know that it's -- major courses or these type of courses, it's -- scores aren't that low.  And I think that may, maybe, favors me.  I don't know.  I think it's too soon to tell.  But you don't have to shoot a 65 or so.  You keep it in play and you've got to think out there.  I like it when it's like that.

JENNY LIDBACK:  Absolutely.  It's very true.  You really have to figure out where you're going to be on the greens.  You don't want to be above the greens.  If there's a pin that's tucked to an edge, sometimes you don't want to go for it.  And that's a lot of thinking out there.


Q.  Emilee Klein was here earlier, and she said she just shot for the center of every green?

JENNY LIDBACK:  Yes, I totally agree.  And I said that to my caddy yesterday.  I think we need to go for a lot of the middle of these greens.


Q.  She was explaining that she carries five woods in her bag.

JENNY LIDBACK:  I carry six.

JENNY LIDBACK:  Basically all of them, 1, 3, 4, 5, 7 and 9.

JENNY LIDBACK:  I've pulled out the 3 and the 4-iron.


Q.  You only started a 5-iron?

JENNY LIDBACK:  Yes.


Q.  You hit an iron on a course, then?

JENNY LIDBACK:  Not too often.  On a course like this, I've kept my 9-wood in there.  I sometimes switch between that and the 4-iron, because first of all the rough is very thick, and may use it to get out of it.

JENNY LIDBACK:  The 9-wood.  And I think the greens will start getting firmer, so my 9-wood will stop better than a four iron.


Q.  The only manufacturers I know that makes that many woods is Callaway.  Both of you are Callaway players?

JENNY LIDBACK:  Yes.


Q.  Might we see Callaway players coming to the top this weekend, because they're the ones who play those higher woods?

JENNY LIDBACK:  Maybe.


Q.  Because they're the ones who play those woods, 7 and 9-wood.  A lot of manufacturers don't make a 9-wood.

JENNY LIDBACK:  And we're not afraid of using them.


Q.  I followed you for the first 9 holes and this is a personal question.  I just want to know what club you hit going into 9, that was a great fairway wood.

JENNY LIDBACK:  Into 9?  It was either a 7-wood or a 9-wood. It was one of the two. 

JENNY LIDBACK:  Yes.  The only one was 18 that I had an iron into it and thank goodness they're playing downwind today.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT