AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 19, 2005
Takao Suzuki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Did you enjoy the match today? 
 
TAKAO SUZUKI:  Yeah, I enjoyed it for sure.  I thought it was three set, but I thought in much less time than usually.  But I played almost like two hours, so it was enjoyed more, yeah.  
 
Q.  Is playing Federer centre court what you expected?  Was that your first time on centre court?
 
TAKAO SUZUKI:  No.  I played in 1999 against Corretja in opening match, I lost against him in five sets.  So this is second time.  I was really happy to play against him in centre court.  Especially also I never played on night session, so it was very excited for me and also still excited.  
 
Q.  Was there a moment in the match where you thought maybe you could win this?
 
TAKAO SUZUKI:  No.  I broke I think the fifth game on the first set, but I didn't feel well still on my serving, so it was not comfortable to hold the serve yet.  I took the few more games to holding serve easier.  But, anyway, he played very good especially passing shot, and I couldn't see well in the serving, the very good fake and sometimes hitting the kick serve and wide, so it was very tough to broke.  But I broke the once, so.  I should hold the serve next one, then it was a little changed, but still a long way it was.  
 
Q.  Is this the best form that you've shown for some time?  You've had a lot of success at challenger and satellite level.  Is this as good a form as you've shown?
 
TAKAO SUZUKI:  Yeah, I played in Asia Open in Japan.  I played against Hewitt, three sets.  But I didn't have a breakpoint on his serve.  So after that is really good performance, I think, yeah.  
 
Q.  There are many opponents that haven't won so many games as you did against Federer.  Maybe that gives you a lot of confidence. 
 
TAKAO SUZUKI:  Yeah, I'm not playing like other guys, staying the baseline.  I going to the net a lot.  I knew he was going to pass me a lot, but for sure he got the confidence for especially the passing shot, like topspin lob, I think so, yeah. 
 
Q.  Do you think you surprised him with your tactic?
 
TAKAO SUZUKI:  I think he knew it, my forehand slice, I heard in the television already.  But he changed sometimes.  He cutted my balls, especially from my approach shot.  He didn't (bound?) for the passing shot sometimes, so it was very tough to play, very tough to go into the net for me, the different timing.  You know, sometimes (bound?), then look me, then passing, or sometimes he didn't look me, then he's going to pass near the line.  So it was very tough.  Few balls I guessed and I stopped the ball, but was really tough to stop it all the time, yeah.  
 
Q.  What happened with your hand?
 
TAKAO SUZUKI:  No, it's just heavy balls from him.  Because I still have doubles tomorrow, yeah (laughter).  
 
Q.  So you don't want to keep this memory?
 
TAKAO SUZUKI:  I think my arm is remember. 
 
Q.  Was that the most enjoyable match you've played in your career?
 
TAKAO SUZUKI:  Yeah, especially outside Japan, yes, yeah. 
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT