BREEDERS' CUP WORLD THOROUGHBRED CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 2, 2013
Buff Bradley
Brent Burns
Carl Hurst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Ladies and gentlemen, the winner of the $1 Million Breeders' Cup Filly and Mare Sprint for the second year in a row is Groupie Doll.   We're joined by now on the left, trainer William Buff Bradley.   In the middle, owner Carl Hurst, and on the right, co‑owner Brent Burns and his stylish hat.   Really an amazing run and almost an identical time to last year's win, Groupie Doll now the 13th horse with multiple Breeders' Cup wins. 
Buff, let's start with you.   First, let's talk about the race specifically.   We'll get on to other stuff after that.   But just tell us your impressions of the race? 
BUFF BRADLEY:   Well, it was pretty much a replay of last year the way she ran.   There were horses that were, you know, closing at her pretty quickly.   But she ran her race and came in about as we expected. 
THE MODERATOR:   Now there were some doubters after the last race.   Can you talk about that?   You contended over the last few weeks that she was actually doing as good if not better than last year?
BUFF BRADLEY:   You don't see the doubters do you?   We've always believed in her.   I tell you what, my team, my family, everybody has done a wonderful job with her, really, to get her back and get her back to this level. 
THE MODERATOR:   I want all of you to address the pending sale, but maybe we'll start with you, just your feelings, knowing that this could be most likely her last start under your name? 
BUFF BRADLEY:   Yes, I've really put that in the back of my mind until this was over.   We were really keyed on trying to win this race.   I don't know.   It's going to be pretty emotional.   I won't lie to you. 
THE MODERATOR:   Maybe you can tell us more about the thought process of decide to go sell her now?   What is the reasoning? 
BUFF BRADLEY:   First, I'll say that we're very lucky to have two great partners, my father and I, happy to have them on board with us for this and share this great experience with them.   We all decided that at this time this was the best thing to do, really.   We have a lot of‑‑ we've got a farm full of babies that we have to take care of and keep moving forward.   And the cost of keeping a mare that value is pretty high. 
So we all decided that that was probably the best thing to do.   We knew it was going to be hard for us and it was a hard decision to make, and we didn't do it overnight.

Q.   Carl, do you care to comment on that? 
CARL HURST:   Pretty much said it all.   We've got a hunk or more horses that she is going to support.   And maybe, maybe we'll get a mini Groupie Doll.   You don't aspire to have somebody like her all the time, but just a little bit of that would be great.

Q.   Brent, it's a tough decision, but it's going to hopefully allow you guys to carry on with more horses. 
BRENT BURNS:   Well, the great thing about this partnership is we always agree on everything.   It's very much friends first and partners second.   It's a great decision for us and for her.   I hope she's one of the great broodmares of all times. 
BUFF BRADLEY:   I do too.   I hope she goes on to produce a bunch of great babies. 
BRENT BURNS:   She's been great to us.   She's been terrific. 
THE MODERATOR:   Can you talk about Rajiv and his ride and how he has gotten along with Groupie Doll and how she's doing this year? 
BUFF BRADLEY:   He knows her so well.   First time we're going to talk strategy.   I said, well, you know what to do, right?   And he said, Yep.   That's about all the instructions we have to give him. 
THE MODERATOR:   Very in‑depth strategy session it sounds like.   I want to ask about your dad.   He's not here, but this filly has meant a lot to you all.   Can you just talk about your dad and what this filly has meant to both of you? 
BUFF BRADLEY:   Yeah, for he and I to be doing it for so long, and we've always dreamed of having a horse win a $100,000 stake.   So this is way beyond that.   We're very blessed, and wish he could be here.   But it's a long trip to to come out here for him.   I just talked to him, and he's pretty happy.

Q.   For all of you, up until say the last 70 yards, were you all feeling‑‑ could you really enjoy it or was there a lot of pressure pulling into this? 
BUFF BRADLEY:   No, I did not enjoy it until after the race.   I mean, last year I think we kind of knew at 16th pole, and we were enjoying it for a few seconds more.   But I mean, we knew she was pretty tough.   She was tough coming down that Lane.   She wasn't giving it up.

Q.   Speaking of pressure, was there more this year being the defending champion and also it being the final start? 
BUFF BRADLEY:   I think more that it was being her final start.   I felt probably a little more nervous just today.   I wasn't‑‑ all week I've been very confident in her and knowing just the way she moves around out here that she likes it.   But knowing that it was going to be her last race, and you can't say well, there is always next time.   That was the tough part, so I was a little more nervous today.

Q.   Carl and Brent, I'd like you both to talk about the ride with Groupie Doll the whole way through.   Your experiences of an owner of a filly of this caliber? 
BRENT BURNS:   I want to thank Fred Bradley for getting me into the horse business in the first place.   It has been one of the biggest thrills of my life, even before Groupie Doll.   And I tip my hat, literally, to Fred and this partnership and Rajiv, who I think rode a perfect ride today.   Just perfect. 
CARL HURST:   Fred and I started horses in 1975.   A lot of you wouldn't know their names so I won't mention them.   And then Buff was 5 years old in 1968 when I first met Fred.   So Fred and I have ridden many horses.
BUFF BRADLEY:   That makes me 50. 
CARL HURST:   Never one that had wings like this.   So it just came at a time‑‑ at a time in his life and my life, you know, and glad we got here.   Glad we got here so we could share it.

Q.   Is there any chance that Groupie Doll doesn't get sold?   Doesn't meet a reserve?   What happens?   Is that a possibility? 
BUFF BRADLEY:   Well, I think she'll meet her reserve.   She's in to sell.

Q.   Does the reserve change now? 
BUFF BRADLEY:   Yeah, the reserve will change a little bit, yes (laughing).

Q.   Will she go right to Lexington or will she go back to Churchill? 
BUFF BRADLEY:   No, she's going to get on a plane tonight at about 2:00 o'clock, right when the time changes, so she gets an extra hour.   Then she's going to fly to Louisville and go into her stall for Monday morning.   She'll leave to go to Keeneland.   And my groom assistant, my groom who is also an assistant is going to go over there with her, Matt Hebert, he's going to go over there with her for the sale. 
CARL HURST:   Actually he wants to go through the sale with her, but I don't think they'll let him do that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT