DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 20, 2020
Petra Martic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








P. MARTIC/A. Kontaveit
7-6, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. First semis for a while.
PETRA MARTIC: Correct (laughter). Well, the season has just started. Basically haven't played much. I was trying to find my rhythm the first few tournaments. Seems like it worked out here.
Q. You hadn't done well here in the past. Why do you think things are working for you here this time? Sometimes conditions don't work for everyone.
PETRA MARTIC: True. I mean, I think these conditions really suit my game well. The ball is bouncing really high. It's great for my kick serve, for my spin ball.
Yeah, I don't know why I didn't play well before. But right now I'm just trying to really just enjoy this tournament.
Q. Score says tough first set, easy second set. Was it really like that?
PETRA MARTIC: No, it's never like that (smiling).
Was tough throughout the match. I mean, she's hitting really hard. Had to stay alert because she was attacking my serve. If you kind of let go, dropping your focus, she's back in the game in no time.
I just tried to be sharp out there from the first to the last point. I think I did it pretty well.
Q. Who is coaching you now?
PETRA MARTIC: The Dutch guy, Martijn Bok. He was on the court.
Q. It's a new partnership, right?
PETRA MARTIC: Yeah. We started at the end of the season. Basically came with me to Zhuhai, we kind of picked up from there. Only good things. We've done I think a good job during the pre-season. Yeah, I mean, I'm happy.
Q. Sometimes it feels like because you spend a few weeks in Australia, it is longer than it really is. Trying to find your rhythm, how has that process been like for you? Did it feel like it's been a while or are you starting fresh this season?
PETRA MARTIC: I feel fresh, to be honest. I didn't play that many matches in January. I was really kind of eager to come out, kind of get some wins. Yeah, I mean, came here with not much confidence, not much rhythm, not much of anything basically. Kind of fought through. First round was also tough.
Yeah, I mean, I'm really just trying to stay in the moment and get the most out of it.
Q. You get to play probably the hottest player on tour at the moment. What are your thoughts on Rybakina?
PETRA MARTIC: She's played really well. No question about it. I mean, I just got off the court, to be honest. I'm going to talk about that match probably tomorrow sometime during the my lunch. Until then I'm not going to worry about it.
Q. How do you feel against those very big servers? Top of the ace leaderboard.
PETRA MARTIC: I like those kind of different players, like some of big hitters, some of big servers, some are slicing around. It's fun.
It's going to be a nice challenge, I think. I hope I can cause some damage with my serve, as well. We'll see who is going to do it better.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT