AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 19, 2018
Petra Martic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
P. MARTIC/L. Kumkhum   
6-3, 3-6, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  That's your third fourth-round in four slams.  You must feel good about coming to a slam and performing well.  
PETRA MARTIC: Yeah, to be honest, I really didn't expect coming from Auckland, to be honest, I didn't feel good on the court, I didn't really feel my game was really there.  That's why I decided to skip Hobart and took more days to practice.  Match to match, I just felt better and better.   
I managed to find myself in the fourth round again, which is incredible.   
 Q.  Could you just describe the conditions today?  What was it like playing out there?  
PETRA MARTIC: That was really ugly.  I think we were lucky to play on Rod Laver because we had some shade behind so you could hide for a few seconds in between the points.  Other than that, it's just, you know, you just need to be mentally tough and ready to just suffer out there and try to make it through.   
 Q.  Is there anything you can do to kind of prepare yourself for those conditions, or is it just a matter of being in tip-top condition?  
PETRA MARTIC: Well, I had some electrolytes, because two days ago I really suffered out there and it was not as hot as today.  I had some banana with me.  Yeah, I mean, that's basically all you can do, hydrate yourself and hope for the best.   
 Q.  Anything you can do with the shoes?  Because I know the court surface gets extremely hot.  Muguruza yesterday said she was getting blisters because of the heat coming through the shoes.  
PETRA MARTIC: I also got some blisters and I took painkillers after the second set, because it really made it difficult for me to move.  It's really tough on your feet to play in these conditions.   
 Q.  You could play Mertens in the next round, another Belgian.  She's ahead now against Cornet.  What do you think of her or know of her?  
PETRA MARTIC: Well, I know she's had a really good season.  I think she won a tournament prior to coming here.  So she's on a big role when she won many matches.   
She's, for sure, playing great tennis.  I haven't watched her much, but my coach knows her.  So tomorrow I'll focus on her.   
 Q.  Because it could be a big moment for both of you.  Chance to go to the quarterfinals.  
PETRA MARTIC: It is.  Yeah, it's going to be a good match, for sure.   
 Q.  You were playing on a court with a big roof and yet you're playing in so much heat, getting blisters.  Does it feel silly you don't play under a roof?  Would it be a better idea to play under the roof, do you think?  
PETRA MARTIC: Well, I was hoping they would close it but the temperature was not high enough.  I think we were short of 2 degrees to close it, so unfortunately it stayed this way.   
 Q.  Happy Birthday.  Second, have you ever won any matches on the day of your birthday before today?  
PETRA MARTIC: I think I lost all of them, and I played three or four.  Everybody was, okay, it's your birthday.  Must be good luck.  I was, like, No, actually, never been.   
 Q.  Do you have plans to celebrate, or is it, like, just focusing on the tournament?  
PETRA MARTIC: I have still so many things to do and the physio and recovery, so I didn't think of it at all, to be honest.   
 Q.  If you look at the draw now, a lot of the seeds in this section have gone out.  Do you see it as a real opportunity?  
PETRA MARTIC: Yes, I think at every Grand Slam it opens up sooner or later.  I think the competition is so high, anybody can beat anybody, and it's been proving on every tournament, basically.   
So of course I think anybody can win this tournament.   
 Q.  Have you done anything different with your preparation this year?  This obviously is a big success for you so far this tournament.  Is there anything different you prepared going into the season?  
PETRA MARTIC: No, I just think that after I came back last year, I just see the game differently.  I think I'm more mature on the court.   
I think that's why I win those type matches more often than I used to.  I think that's the biggest difference.   
 Q.  Are you still training in Germany?  
PETRA MARTIC: In Serbia now, since November.   
 Q.  And the name of the place?  
PETRA MARTIC: It's not a place.  I'm just working with a different coach.  It's not the academy.   
 Q.  When did you change coaches?  
PETRA MARTIC: When?   
 Q.  When did you change coaches?  
PETRA MARTIC: At the end of the season.  So prior to...   
 Q.  There has been some surprising results here.  What does it say about the depth now in the women's tour, the quality?  
PETRA MARTIC: Well, like I said, I think it's really high, and I think any player has a chance on a given day against best players.  I think it's great to see, because it's very exciting, and, you know, you can't say who's gonna win the tournament, who's gonna win the semis.  It's pretty open, and I think I'm one of those girls that are kind of not expected to be here but still there are quite a few making it.   
 Q.  (Question about ranking.)  Did you expect that one year ago when you came back outside the top 600?  Did you expect this spot?  
PETRA MARTIC: No.  I mean, I still, at times, you know, I just look back and I can't believe what season I had.  Again, another Grand Slam.  I'm just living my dream.   
When I started, I really had no idea what to expect.  I didn't know how my body was going to react, whether I can actually handle so much work.  But, yeah, I mean, it's been going great.  I'm just really so happy about it.   
 Q.  Do you feel like the conditions made it dangerous at any point, or it was okay to continue on?  
PETRA MARTIC: Well, I just saw Cornet on the court, and she's really struggling.  Once I walked out of the locker room, she was on the floor.  So I don't know what's happening there.   
But of course, I mean, these conditions are really, really tough, and there are some girls that don't handle it well.  They are having tough times out there.   
 Q.  Is there anything in which you think, I'm really good in this part of my game?  
PETRA MARTIC: Well, like I said, I think my biggest strength is I actually -- now I manage to stay calm in those tight situations, pressure moments, and I think I handle them better.   
At the end of the day, everybody and anybody can play really good tennis out here.  Whoever is in the third or even first round, they will play good tennis.  The difference, those few points you either make or you don't.  So I think this is the thing that I really, I'm aware of this and I see it as my strength now which was not the case before.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT