ROLAND GARROS
June 5, 2017
Petra Martic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
E. SVITOLINA/P. Martic   
4-6, 6-3, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  What is your feeling after this sad end for you?  
PETRA MARTIC: Well, it's sad obviously, especially in the fourth round of a Grand Slam, but it hurts.  I mean, I was two points away from winning this match.  But on the other hand, I think she played extremely well in those moments, you know, from 5-2 Love-30, I think she really played -- she didn't miss a ball.  I cannot say I did something wrong.   
So from that side, I left it all out there and I'm proud of myself for this match and for the whole tournament.   
So I just want to take the positives out of it.   
 Q.  Maybe no red wine today but still something to be proud and happy about?  
PETRA MARTIC: Still a great tournament, you know.  You can always find reason for red wine (smiling).   
 Q.  After a match like this where you come so close to the win, how difficult is it to sort of get all the feelings sort of in line, because you never expected to be in the fourth round, but when you started before this tournament, but then you come so close to the quarters, how difficult is it to sort of marry all these feelings into something that is positive at the end?  
PETRA MARTIC: Well, it's hard to balance it out, definitely.  Especially one hour after such match.  I'm still trying to figure things out in my head, you know.  Still, the points are running through my head.  It's gonna be like this for a while.  Probably the whole night, also.  But it's the way it goes.  It's sport.   
It's great, you know, when you can be in this position, but I hope next time, you know, I will be on the other side.   
 Q.  I think you will think about this in a few days, but anything about your next tournament?  Grass?  
PETRA MARTIC: Yeah, I'm switching to grass, but I have to discuss my schedule with my coach, because this fourth round changes a bit.  I definitely need some rest.  Then we will see where I start.   
 Q.  Does it also change expectations that you have for yourself?  You're going to make a big leap in the rankings after this, of course.  You will be close to around 130 or something, so the schedule will probably adjust the tournaments you're playing.  Do you know how that's going to affect that or is that still something where you're like today is today and we will look at that tomorrow?  
PETRA MARTIC: Yeah, I think it's just way too far to think about this now.  I just finished this match.  I have no idea.  Maybe tomorrow morning I will wake up and be like, Oh, my God, I have to be winning tournaments now.  Maybe not.  I really have no idea.  It will all be seen very soon.   
 Q.  Third set, did you think to your injury, to the past or something like that?  
PETRA MARTIC: At 5-2?   
 Q.  Yes.  
PETRA MARTIC: No.  Actually, I think I did well then, because I kept on doing the things that I did until then.  You know, I think I was quite disciplined even though the nerves, of course, kicked in.  Not like I wasn't aware of how close I was to winning this match, but still, like, I can really take only positives out of this, because it's not like I played many fourth-round matches.  It was all good.   
 Q.  During the last couple of weeks, have you noticed anything with your back at all?  Have you been completely pain-free, or how have things been for you just since you started playing again at the beginning, like, two months ago?  
PETRA MARTIC: My back is actually holding up really good.  I get stuck here and there but no pain I felt for, I mean, the whole last year.  I can't complain.  I still fear, is it gonna come back, is it not, especially after long matches.  But I think it's going to follow me for a while still.  It's okay.  As long as it doesn't hurt I can deal with it.   
 Q.  Five years ago you had your fourth round here.  Can you compare the feelings after that loss with the ones after this loss?  
PETRA MARTIC: Well, back then, of course I was disappointed to lose, but I went on the court hoping that, you know, I can perform pretty good and put up a good match so I don't lose in 45 minutes.  Today I actually went out there hoping that I can win, even though she's, especially this year, one of the best players, by far.   
But still, you know, I think I got much more mature.  I believe in myself much more.  Whenever I go on the court, no matter if it's No. 5 in the world or 500, I want to win.  That's just it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT