WIMBLEDON
June 21, 2010
Petra Martic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







P. MARTIC/E. Baltacha
  2-6, 7-5, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Is it an unexpected comeback? Was there point where you thought, I'm going home? 
 PETRA MARTIC: Yeah, there were many points where I thought I was going home. I didn't feel good. This was my first grass court match. 
 She played well and I wasn't too confident. But then I was like, Okay, this is the last game. I will give my best and we will see what happens. 
 In the end, it turned out well.

 Q. Did you see any particular weaknesses in her that made you think, Ah, I've got a chance now?
 PETRA MARTIC: No, actually she was playing well. She was serving well. I was just trying to be as aggressive as possible, to get into the game, to return as good as possible. 
 I started playing better without making too many unforced errors, and it's good.

 Q. Are you surprised how quiet the crowd was considering it's a British player? It wasn't very loud for her. 
 PETRA MARTIC: Yeah, at the beginning they were much louder, but then many Croatian people came and I felt like I was playing at home. I like the atmosphere there. 

 Q. Do you think that worked to your advantage? This was your first time playing at Wimbledon, whereas there was a lot more pressure on Baltacha. 
 PETRA MARTIC: Yeah, that's true. I knew she had all the pressure. She was favorite. She's No. 1 in great Britain, so I came out like -- I was able to play free, and that was, I think, one of the big advantages for me, especially second set at 5-4.

 Q. Elena, she obviously often goes to the back of the court in between the points and stands and looks at the wall. Is that quite difficult for the opposition?
 PETRA MARTIC: Yeah, it was disturbing me a little bit at the beginning, but then I accepted it. I knew she was trying to get me out of rhythm on the serve because I like it go quite fast between the points.
 But then I just accepted it. That's it. 

 Q. It was your first match here. Did it reach your expectations? 
 PETRA MARTIC: Yeah, I mean, everything but a loss is reaching my expectations. I got through, and now I'm playing again against very good player. I'll just do my best. I'm enjoying time here. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT