ZHENGZHOU OPEN
September 15, 2019
Petra Martic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. PLISKOVA/P. Martic.
6-3, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.
Q. It's quite a long day. Can you talk about the match today?
PETRA MARTIC: Yeah, it's been a long one. That's what happens in tennis sometimes. In my second round the rain delay helped me, today it didn't and that's just how it goes. She just dealt with it better than I did.
Q. Despite the loss today actually it's one of your best seasons. So what do you think is the key factor of your breakthrough this year?
PETRA MARTIC: I think I was, since I came back, I was just improving with every season and this one has been the best so far and the most consistent. I think my level, my game is raising and my fitness level is also getting better, so I can keep it up for longer without big drops. So I think this was the key for me to kind of keep playing consistently.
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Chinese.
Q. This is the first time in the season to reach to the finals of a Premier tournament. Do you think this will help your China swing?
PETRA MARTIC: Well, definitely, this week was big for me, really important for my career and gave me a lot of confidence. I beat some really good players and, yeah, I think this can only help me going forward.
Q. Your opponent said you were a tough player and made it very difficult for her. So what is your opinion on your opponent?
PETRA MARTIC: Well she's a great player. She's been Top-10 for so many years now and, yeah, I think her results speak for themselves. There's nothing to be added there. She made my life pretty difficult out there today. She was serving great, she has one of the best serves on tour, I think, and when that's on, it's really tough to play her. So, yeah, I mean yet another title for her and it's really well deserved.
Q. Your coach is also a former professional tennis player. So what can you gain from her?
PETRA MARTIC: Well, like I said many times, she's really important for me for my career. She knows my game very well, she played herself, she played a similar style to mine, so she knows how it feels out there. I think she understands my game better than some other people did in the past. Yeah, I think our results prove that we're a really good fit.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT