ZHENGZHOU OPEN
September 14, 2019
Petra Martic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
P. MARTIC/K. Mladenovic.   
6-0, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English first, please.   
 Q.  Can you just assess your performance today?  
PETRA MARTIC: Well I'm really happy with how I played from the beginning until the end there. She raised her level in the second set and it was not easy for me to break her, but like I said, I went up 4-3 and that gave me a couple easy points and I converted them. So, yeah, I got the victory.   
 Q.  Talk about the first set. Was it as straightforward as the score line suggested?  
PETRA MARTIC: Well it was not easy. We played many times and we have known each other for many years, so we know how we play, what to expect from each other and, yeah, it's always kind of a chess match with her. But, yeah, I'm happy that I managed to kind of get that lead at the beginning.   
 Q.  Looking ahead to the final can you just give us your thoughts about playing Karolina?  
PETRA MARTIC: Well, it's going to be a tough one. She's playing well on hard courts now. We played on clay last, but it's a different story, every surface is different, and so for her especially. So I definitely think it's going to be a tough one.   
 Q.  How do you regard your conditioning to Asian swing so far? Is it something that is really easy or hard for you?  
PETRA MARTIC: Well, it was a bit challenging because I came straight from States here and it was not easy mentally, physically. But I think the result says it all, I'm in the finals of a Premier event and I really could not complain right now.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Chinese.   
 Q.  Three years ago in Zhengzhou it only held an ITF 5K tournament and three years ago Sabalenka lost in quarterfinals and yesterday she lost to you again. Do you think the update of this tournament into a Premier tournament helps the development of a player's growth?  
PETRA MARTIC: Well, I think to have a Premier at any time of the year is a great opportunity for any player. So once I got the news that we were having a new tournament I was really happy about it. So I think that it's the same for all other players.   
 Q.  Can you tell us your plan after this tournament?  
PETRA MARTIC: From here I'm going to Osaka and then Wuhan, Beijing and then my season is about to be over.   
 Q.  We know there are a lot of male players, tennis players in Croatia and right now there are only two top-100 female players in your country. Can you analyze the reason behind this?  
PETRA MARTIC: No, not really. I mean Croatia is a really small country and I think to have even two top-50 -- or actually we're top-30 -- players on WTA rankings is, I think, a good achievement. It's just that, yeah, the guys are doing a bit better right now, but I think it goes back and forth.   
 Q.  The upcoming final is your first hard court final in seven years. So can you tell us the meaning of this final?  
PETRA MARTIC: Well every final is meaningful and important. I'm happy that I started playing well on hard court again because at the beginning of this American swing I didn't play that well. So I'm really happy to have my form and, yeah, I'm really looking forward to tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT