ZHENGZHOU OPEN
September 11, 2019
Petra Martic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
P. MARTIC/F. Ferro.   
3-6, 6-1, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  Congrats on the win. Can you give us your thoughts on the match?  
PETRA MARTIC: Yeah, you I think I started pretty bad first set, I didn't find rhythm and she just dominated and I couldn't play my game basically, so I used the rain delay to set my mind straight and start playing more aggressive and I think that made the difference in the end.   
 Q.  What did you say to yourself in the rain delay and how did you manage to turn it around?  
PETRA MARTIC: Well I was pretty disappointed with the way I played. I was making mistakes and I was trying not to lose instead of to win and, yeah, once I stepped back on the court I just tried to go for my shots and play more aggressive and I was really happy with the way I played.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Chinese.   
 Q.  What is your impression about the courts, because today it's raining and the volunteers quickly recovered the court after the rain stopped.  
PETRA MARTIC: Yeah, they did a great job. The rain delay was not too long and the courts afterwards were just as good as they were all other days.   
 Q.  What is your feeling about the city and have you visited any places in the city and what's your feeling about this food, because many players have tasted the local food here.  
PETRA MARTIC: Well, I haven't been much around yet, I was busy practicing and playing. The only food I ate was basically in the club and in the hotel, which I liked pretty much. So it's been so good so far.   
 Q.  Did the rain affect your rhythm and my next question is, the weather forecast says it is going to be rain for the next day, so have you prepared to play in the rain or some strategies to manage this condition?  
PETRA MARTIC: Well, I have to deal with that every day in tennis. You always have different conditions, whether it's about weather or balls, the court. So every day is different and you just try to do your best and adjust as good as you can.   
 Q.  What positives can you take away from the match today since you don't know who you're going to play for the next round?  
PETRA MARTIC: Well, I'm definitely happy with how I managed to raise my level from first set to second and third. And it gives me a lot of confidence that no matter how I start I can always pull out my best game or somewhat close to it. And, yeah, I'm really looking forward to my quarterfinals.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT