ROLAND GARROS
May 31, 2019
Petra Martic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








P. MARTIC/K. Pliskova
6-3, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. It was the greatest victory of your career today?
PETRA MARTIC: I don't know.  I mean, I wouldn't call it -- I mean, I have had a few, and for sure it was one of the bigger ones.  But I have bigger goals than that, and I hope I can just continue this way.
Q. What did you see out there as the key to your victory?
PETRA MARTIC: Well, for sure, the key was to focus on my game and try to dictate instead of letting her dictate, which is her biggest strength.  I had to kind of try to take it away from her, and at times it was difficult, especially when she broke me and when she got a few winners, which she's known for.
And I'm just happy that I managed in the end to hold my nerves and to finish it off.
Q. When you look at your half of the draw, do you feel there is a real opportunity here?
PETRA MARTIC: Well, I don't look at it (smiling).  I just go from one match to another, and, yeah, I mean, since I came back, I stopped looking at the draw.  I just know my next opponent, and that's it.  Because I think that's the only way you can kind of keep your focus and keep your calm and perform.
Q. You have special relationships with Roland Garros?
PETRA MARTIC: I don't know if Roland Garros has special relationship with me, but I have it with Roland Garros.  I really love this tournament.  I love this surface.  I really feel great here, and I hope for the first time I'll be able to make the step further.
Q. Going back over the years, you have actually got a good record against Karolina.  What is it about her game that helps you to win, really?
PETRA MARTIC: I don't know.  To be honest, I don't think -- I mean, I don't really like to play her.  I mean, she's such a great player, so it's never easy to play her.  I don't know if she likes to play me.  Doesn't seem that way so far.  But it's always difficult.
You never know.  She's No. 2 in the world.  I wouldn't say I'm a favorite against her.  But, yeah, I think this surface also suits me a little bit better than it suits her, and I used it today.
Q. You say she's No. 2 in the world.  No one expects you to win.  Does that free you up, then, to play your game?
PETRA MARTIC: Well, yes and no.  From one hand I have nothing to lose.  On the other hand, you know, I want to make it to the next round and I don't want to just go home and be, like, Okay, I did my job here.
Yeah, it's tricky.  So I just try to keep those numbers away, out of my head, and just focus on my game.  It's not easy at times, really.  But I think I'm getting better at it.
Q. You had a serious injury several years ago.  How is your back now?
PETRA MARTIC: It was unstable at the beginning when I was coming back, but I feel like it's stronger now.  It bothers me here and there, but it's getting less and less.  It's looking good for now (smiling).






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT