BIG EAST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 11, 2005
Randy Foye
Allan Ray
Jay Wright
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
COACH JAY WRIGHT:  That was a great college basketball game, one that is difficult to take, but we have to, that's part of life.  We're going to move on and give West Virginia credit.  I thought they played a great game, didn't surprise us at all.  This is the last part of our postseason.  We want to learn from this and move on and win the next tournament.  That's what's on our minds now.  
 
Q.  Jay, you said it's tough to take.  Tough to take because you wanted the game decided in a different circumstance?  Tough to take because of...
 
COACH JAY WRIGHT:  Just losing the semifinals.  We came here, it was our goal to win the BIG EAST Championship.  You know, there's nothing wrong with failing.  I'm proud of our guys' effort, but it just hurts.  It's life.  We just got to take it and move on.  
 
Q.  When you look at stats, you see it was 55%, five turnovers.  Hard to find stats like that when a team loses.  Do you look at that...
 
COACH JAY WRIGHT:  We just didn't do a good enough job taking away their threes.  We knew we had to do it.  Give them credit.  They know we're trying to take them away, we try to take them away; we didn't do it.  They hit big-time threes.  When they do that, they are very, very difficult to beat.  Pittsnogle picked up one off the floor, loose ball, and hit one.  You have to give them credit.  I'm proud of our guys.  Our guys gave great effort.  Like you said, the fact that we turned the ball over 20 times, I'd say we didn't execute.  You have to give them credit. 
 
Q.  The last second, did it look like a foul? 
 
COACH JAY WRIGHT:  You know what, from where I was, I couldn't see it.  We will take that, we'll just take the call and move on.  
 
Q.  Considering the magnitude of the game and how well you played, toughest loss you've ever had? 
 
COACH JAY WRIGHT:  I don't know.  I don't look at it that way, honestly.  I feel more for our guys, you know.  I've been doing this 22, 23 years, I've had a lot; I can't remember them all.  These guys only have a few opportunities to do this.  They gave great effort tonight.  I just feel for them.  But I also want them, as young men, to take it and move on, and we got another tournament to play.  We're fired up to play in the NCAA tournament.  
 
Q.  Allan, can you talk about what happened on the last play. 
 
ALLAN RAY:  He grabbed the rebound and he kind of out -- he kind of jumped up before me.  I couldn't get there right away.  My hand got caught up in his arm as he went up, and the ref called the foul.  
 
Q.  Defensively in the first half, do you feel that you put up the effort you wanted? 
 
COACH JAY WRIGHT:  I thought we had a couple of possessions that -- I thought actually earlier I thought we started off well.  Then there was a little lull that we had a 10-point lead.  We just had some poor possessions where they got it going.  Some of it, you know, might have been some mistakes on our part, but some of them were -- one shot hit the top of the backboard and went in.  It was just one of those nights.  It was Allan on Gansey on that play.  Hit the top of the backboard, bounced back in.  You just got to say -- but then once a team like that gets it going, it's tough to stop those threes.  
 
Q.  Yesterday you were able to shoot, get to the line 30 times.  Today you only managed 14 attempts.  Is that a big difference in the game plan? 
 
COACH JAY WRIGHT:  Yeah.  They're a physical team.  You don't play in this league without being physical.  They did a great job, I thought, of riding us off our drives when we took it to the basket, just bodying up.  I give them credit.  We do like to get to the line more. 
 
Q.  Randy, can you talk about the defensive intensity.  It looked like Coach was kind of mad at you guys in the beginning, called an early time-out. 
 
RANDY FOYE:  The intensity was where we wanted it.  We was just a step late on a lot of those plays.  West Virginia is a great offensive team, and they made great plays and they scored off of them. 
 
Q.  Was there a point where you look and think, "They're hitting everything"?  They couldn't miss. 
 
RANDY FOYE:  We really didn't look at it like that.  We looked at it like we had to play together, get stops as a team before we could make a play on offense.  
 
Q.  Coach, against Pitt yesterday they had a lot of trouble getting the ball up court and getting into their offense.  What is it about West Virginia that allowed them to do what Pitt couldn't do against what looked to be the same defense? 
 
COACH JAY WRIGHT:  I thought they just -- they spread the floor a little bit better.  I thought actually we had them.  I thought we did a good -- I thought we did a very good job against, you know -- there's things, little things that happened in the game.  I really look at this as a game that sometimes you do everything you're supposed to do, and things just don't go your way, you know.  I think anybody that knows our team, I'll take responsibility that our guys didn't get it done when we didn't get it done, but I thought there were a lot of times where we did a great job, they were hesitant, maybe we could have had a turnover, we didn't get it.  I just think -- I thought we did a good job.  You got to give them credit for making the plays, you know.  
 
Q.  Coach, are you happy with the defensive effort?  I know four minutes in you called a quick 30-second time-out and you looked very animated, like you were upset. 
 
COACH JAY WRIGHT:  Yeah, we had a little -- I said that was that little run they made, you know.  We just had -- might have been like a two-and-a-half-minute period there where I wasn't happy with the effort, but then they came right back, you know.  Sometimes West Virginia can do that to you, they can kind of lull you to sleep.  It wasn't as much I was mad at our guys' efforts, I was mad at we were letting them lull us to sleep, standing around instead of being aggressive.  I thought from that point we did a good job.  They got it going.  They started hitting some threes.  You can't let a team like that get going.  They had eight threes in the first half. 
 
Q.  How do you rebound from this game and play the type of basketball you played all season?
 
COACH JAY WRIGHT:  I think that this is what I really love about this team, is that we've been able to do that for a few years.  Actually, we used to lose a lot of these games.  We practiced coming back from these games.  But we haven't lost a lot of these this year.  But I think we do know how to respond.  That's why I said this is going to hurt, this is going to hurt tonight.  But tomorrow, we're going to be fired up about playing in the NCAA tournament, and I know these guys will respond. 
 
Q.  What do the players think about that? 
 
RANDY FOYE:  We're going to rebound.  We're not going to let this loss get us down.  We're going to keep our heads up, look for the next day of practice and focus on the next team that we're going to face in the NCAA tournament.  
 
COACH JAY WRIGHT:  Thanks, guys.  
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT