MISSISSIPPI GULF RESORT CLASSIC PRESENTED BY C SPIRE
March 23, 2014
Billy Andrade
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   We got a couple of guys.   I guess they're watching in there.   But Billy, 9‑under par, you're right in the‑‑ leading most of the way and then a couple of bogeys coming in.  
BILLY ANDRADE:   What did Jeff do on the back nine.  
THE MODERATOR:   Jeff, on the back nine.   Four birdies and a bogey.   
THE WITNESS:   Four birdies and a bogey.   So he shot 33 on the back?   
THE MODERATOR:   33 on the back.  
BILLY ANDRADE:   I shot 37.   So there you go.   
You know, the golf course today I thought played very, very hard, with the wind, a different wind, opposite wind.   And you know, coming down the stretch those last four or five holes it got a little nippy.   So it just changed a little.  
You know, I haven't been in this situation in a long time, and it's going to take me a little while, I think, to get the rust off of the nerves of being in the hunt.   
I really didn't have it in Mississippi, you know, last summer when I finished fifth at Sanderson Farms.   You know, I shot a 65 in the last round.   I came from‑‑ you know, I wasn't in the tournament.   Now, this is a different situation when you're tied for the lead or leading a tournament and you're leading it the whole day, now you got nine holes to go, with the lead.   
You know, it's a different‑‑ it's something I haven't been in in a long, long time.   So you know, I'm pretty happy with‑‑ you know, I hung in there, I made a couple of birdies.   I did make some mistakes coming in, but overall I can't complain too much.   My only complaint is that Jeff should stay back on the PGA TOUR and let us hang out over here.  
THE MODERATOR:   Can you just sort of take us down the stretch?   You made a scrambling par at 13.   
BILLY ANDRADE:   Yeah.   13, I hit some bad‑‑ I missed just in the right rough on 10, 11, 12.   And then on 13 I didn't want to hit it in the right rough, and I pulled it and ended up behind some trees, and you know, I hit a miraculous shot to get it out to where I could go for the Green in three.   I hit it short of the Green.   I putted it up to about five feet and made a nice putt for par.  
I think the dagger really was the next hole, 14.   I hit a 9‑iron about 20 feet, you know, straight up the hill into the grain, and I hit the putt by about three feet, and I just hit a bad putt.   I pulled it, and the grain got it, and I missed.   So I think me making bogey there, I don't know what Jeff did on‑‑  
   
 Q.   He birdied like right before you bogeyed?  
BILLY ANDRADE:   Yeah.   So he flipped it.   So right then and there‑‑ then, now I'm two shots back, and you know, I go to the par‑5, so now the pressure is off me, so I kind of‑‑ I hit a hell of a drive and my 4‑iron, the thing almost went in the hole, I think.   It went past the hole.   I had about a 25‑footer for eagle that I almost made.   Then I had a 7‑iron to 16 and straight up the hill.   It was a pretty stock shot, and I pushed it in the right bunker and made bogey, and that was kind of the‑‑ that, too, between bogeys at 14 and 16 really hurt my chances.  
   
 Q.   Just talk about coming out and just you know‑‑ how much did you know where you stood?   Were you pretty aware of that all day?  
BILLY ANDRADE:   I knew I was leading early.   I birdied the first two holes out of the gate and I was leading the tournament.   I knew I had the lead going into the back nine.   I didn't know by how many.   You know that on this tour everybody's punched up.   So yeah, a one‑shot lead is nothing.   You still have to go out and play great on the back.   And I knew that.   Unfortunately I didn't play great on the back.  
But you know, I hung in there.   And baby steps for me.   I think the more chances‑‑ the more I play out here, the more comfortable I'll get and I'll do just fine.  
   
 Q.   What do you think you've learned the most from this week and from the first couple of tournaments that you've played?  
BILLY ANDRADE:   That I do have a little bit of talent in there, that I can play out here with these guys, and that, you know, I'm pretty good.   So I think that's what I've learned so far, that I still have work to do, and the guys out here have been fantastic.   They've been very supportive of me, and you know, the outpouring of hugs and being nice when I first came out was overwhelming.   It was fantastic.   
And then not that I'm shocked, but you have to play great golf out here, and these guys are really, really good players, and I know that.   And I'm just honored to be a part of this group and looking forward to seeing how good I can get as we play more golf.  
   
 Q.   Anything about your assessment of Falling Oak now that you've gone through it one time here?  
BILLY ANDRADE:   You know, it's a ball striker's course.   You gotta really hit the ball well here, tee to green.   You know, today was a little different with ball in hand.   It was really important to hit the fairways today because if you were not in the fairway, pretty good chance you had a lot of mud on the ball.   And then it's really difficult to control the ball.  
But, you know, this is I think one of the best courses we play.   What everybody's told me, its condition was fantastic.   You know, the bunkers, I guess are going to be fixed.   They're a little too deep and they're going to go in there and fix them up, which is great.   But it's a very, very good golf course, and you know, one of the best, I think, out on the tour.   
THE MODERATOR:   Anything else anything else?   Okay.   We'll let you go.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT