PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 18, 2006
Billy Andrade
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Can you talk about the difference between playing well and still scoring?
BILLY ANDRADE:  I think the difference is you've got to get the ball in the hole somehow, and up till Barclays, the U.S. Open qualifying at Canoe Brook, I just did a pathetic job of getting the ball in the hole and not getting any momentum going with my game.  You hit it close, you 2 putt.  You miss a green, you 2 putt.  You average 33 or 34 putts a day, you can't compete out here with these great players.

At Barclays, I did a better job of getting the ball in the hole.  I think if I putted normal four days, I think I could have easily won the tournament.  I finished that up playing well at the Booz Allen and here I am today.

So I don't think I'm hitting it any differently than I have all year.  It's just the fact that I'm converting on chances and I'm getting the ball in the hole better.
Q.  Are you comfortable enough with the way you're playing now that you think you can keep it rolling on the weekend?
BILLY ANDRADE:  Absolutely.  The hardest part is getting here.  Once you get here and you play well for a couple of days; I just can't wait until this weekend.  I'm going to go out and really enjoy myself, enjoy this experience.  You know, I'm too old to be afraid.  There's no point in that.

I was walking to the first tee today and some guy said, "Hey, do it for us old guys."    And I was like, whoa, I really didn't think I was that old, but I guess I am.  (Laughter).

You know, I'm just looking forward to tomorrow and getting in the mix and having a chance come Sunday.
Q.  When you came in as an alternate, did you ever envision yourself at this point halfway?
BILLY ANDRADE:  I've had a nice run since Barclays and I just knew if I had a chance to get in, you know, if I got lucky and some guys backed out that I could    I'm not searching for my game coming in here where in 1999, I came here with a lot of doubts and I was just playing horrible golf and I had no chance.  I was in the tournament.

So this is the flip side where I wasn't in the tournament but I know that I've been playing well and I really wanted to get in here and I was fortunate enough to.
Q.  What do you mean by, "Too old to be afraid," what do you mean?
BILLY ANDRADE:  I've been doing this for a long time, 19 years.  I've had a few chances in majors, not a lot.  But I really feel that I have nothing to lose.  Why be afraid now?  Now is the time to enjoy this and go out and play the best I can play and if it's good enough, then we'll have a hell of a party on Sunday night.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT