U.S. SENIOR OPEN
June 28, 2019
Billy Andrade
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How was your day today and what did you do pretty well?  
BILLY ANDRADE: Let's first off and say that -- I mean, let's get it off -- on the table:  Steve Stricker is kind of becoming a jerk.  (Laughing.)  This isn't right.  You can't look up at the board and see 14-under.  62, 66 -- 62, what?  62, 64.  It's not the Greater Milwaukee Open.   
Amazing.  Amazing what he's done.  Unbelievable.  He's a hell of the player.   
I've been playing well lately.  And today I didn't maybe make a few that I should have made.  But it's all about trying to not to make too many mistakes.  And if you can hit some greens here, you can have a lot of chances.   
And I thought today was a little more difficult than yesterday.  Yesterday there wasn't as much wind.  And I made three bogeys today that kind of derailed me a little bit.   
Overall I'm very happy to be where I'm at.  Steve is a jerk.  And we've just got to go pretty low this weekend, I guess.   
 Q.  Maybe not the mindset you figure for a Senior Open to shoot the scores he's shooting.  
BILLY ANDRADE: You've got to look at the way that golf course is.  That rain that we got the night before really made the golf course pretty susceptible to great scores.  The fairways were wet.  So if you can -- and they're not that claustrophobic.  So if you're hitting your driver okay and the greens are susceptible to good shots, though the greens are small, it's not crazy.  And you're not looking at seeing 14-under on the board, but there are a lot of good scores out there.   
And there's nothing wrong with that.  I mean, if you look at what Gary Woodland did at Pebble Beach and you look at what Tiger Woods did the last time it was there and the difference in scoring.  So it's just the way Mother Nature kind of -- if this place was bone dry, it's be really hard.  But it's not.  So it's still a hell of a track.   
 Q.  But you're not happy with how you're playing, are you?  
BILLY ANDRADE: I feel pretty good, yeah.  Yeah, not bad.  It's a hell of a lot better than the U.S. Senior Open in Oak Tree that you had to bring up a couple years ago.   
 Q.  I feel terrible about that, I'm still --  
BILLY ANDRADE: It's one of the highlights of my life, I shoot 63, I tie the record, I just get interviewed on TV by Holly Sonders that it was the record, and I come in the press room and you guys weren't even ready for me.  There was nobody there.  They had to set everything up because it was so early.   
And the first thing out of your mouth was like, well, what's the difference between last year and this year?  You shot 22-over at Oak Tree, and you shot 63 today.  I said, Now, that's a really good friend of mine right there.  (Laughing.)   
 Q.  The difference is so small.  
BILLY ANDRADE: It is.  It's just a shot here or there.  Or 28.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT