PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2006
Billy Andrade
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Can you just talk about your round in general and how you played?
BILLY ANDRADE:  You know, I got off to a really nice start today, birdieing three of the first five, and I think that that's everybody's goal out here when you start a major championship is to not kick yourself in the foot.  I can't tell you how many times I'm 3 over after five instead of 3 under after five.  When you're going the other way, it's very difficult to make up shots in the majors.

Getting off to that nice start was great.  I made a couple of birdies on the front.  I didn't make a bogey today, so all in all, it was one of the best rounds I've had in a major starting out.
Q.  It seems like the course was conducive to scoring with the conditions, not much wind?
BILLY ANDRADE:  Yeah, the wind really wasn't up.  It was a beautiful morning to play.  I had two guys that I'm friends with that I was playing with that made it enjoyable.  The greens this morning were still a little soft, so you could go for some pins if you'd like, if you're inclined to.  The greens are beautiful at 7:30 in the morning.  There weren't too many crazy pins out there.  There were a couple of dicey ones, but overall it was a    for me it was a day where I played well, and the scoring, as it looks like, indicates that others are doing the same.
Q.  When you get in as an alternate, is it easier or harder to prepare mentally?
BILLY ANDRADE:  You know, I've done this before at Oak Hill in 2002 or 2003, and Sahalee in '98.

You know, I went home from Denver, I spent two great days at home with my family.  My kids started school Monday.  I got the call Tuesday afternoon that I got in.  I flew up here yesterday, played a leisurely practice round yesterday afternoon, was very fresh when I woke up this morning, and maybe there's something to that.  Chris DiMarco showed up at the British Open on Tuesday afternoon late and everybody else was there on Sunday, and he went out there and almost won the British Open seeing the golf course once or twice.

I've played here.  I played here in '99 and I knew the golf course layout.  There was obviously some changes from '99 until now, but I was fresh and ready to go this morning.  I guess my preparation wasn't too bad.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT