DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 4, 2005
Billy Andrade
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TODD BUDNICK:  We welcome Billy Andrade, one of five winners of the CRESTOR Charity Challenge today.  $50,000 will be donated on behalf of CRESTOR and the Deutsche Bank Championship to the Tiger Woods Foundation, and $50,000 will go to the healthcare charity of your choice.  Congratulations on that.

Two birdies today, one to start and one to finish and pretty steady golf in between.
BILLY ANDRADE:  Pretty steady, yeah.  I'm feeding off of Jim McCabe over there and it's been good so far.

You know, I hit a lot of really good putts today.  I think I putted today as good as I've ever putted, and kept lipping them out here and there, with some birdies on front nine.  I made some nice up and downs early in the back nine, and then had some chances coming in and didn't get it, finally got the last one to go down.

I was pretty proud of making the birdie on last because I knew 10 under was a lot better than 9 with everybody bunched up.  I liked way I played.  I was very confident out there today and I'm looking forward to tomorrow.  I can't wait.
TODD BUDNICK:  Talk about that, you haven't been a winner since Vegas in 2000.
BILLY ANDRADE:  I'm getting these feelings; I'm feeling great about the way I'm handling myself.  It's like I haven't played bad in a while.  I feel like I'm rolling in the right direction, so I am ecstatic.  I can't wait.  I'm ready to go right now.  I love this position.  I'm not going to back down.  I'm going to go for it tomorrow and I'm going to play exactly the same way I played today and the first two days, and we'll see what happens.  If it's my time to win, then I'll win and if not, whoever wins you tip your cap and go to Canada.
TODD BUDNICK:  Keep your eye out on fellow Rhode Islander, Brad Faxon.
BILLY ANDRADE:  I think I might have to being into Barrington tomorrow morning and put a banana in his tail pipe.  I saw he had a great round today which is not surprising.  I think he's going to be    obviously he's rolling, he's confident, he's playing well.  Usually you win, and the next week with all of the hoopla he's gone through, it's tough the first day.  But once you get through to like tomorrow, I think he'll probably feel as good as he's felt all week.  I just picture he's going to probably be in the mix along with everybody else.

Like I said years ago, when Greg Norman was the No. 1 player in the world, I don't think he was worried about if my name was on that leaderboard on Sunday.  So I can't really be worried about Brad or anybody else.  I have to take care of me and go out there and keep doing what I'm doing.
Q.  What did you hit on 18, you had 237?
BILLY ANDRADE:  I put a 5 wood in the bag this week that I got that is specifically for that 18th hole really, because you don't want to go in there with a 2  or a 3 iron.  If that's the case you might as well just lay it up.  It's a sidehill lie and it's a tree on the left that you've got to watch out for, if you pull it a little bit.  I was trying to cut it because if I hit it a normal shot, I would have flown the green, so it was a cut shot and I hit a pretty good shot, I just over cut it.  I didn't think it came up short.  I could hit that club 240 in the air easy.  That was the situation there.  You've got to go there; you can't be laying up.  You can stuff it in there with that club I felt like, maybe to try and make eagle.  If I get in that position again tomorrow, I'll probably do the same thing.
Q.  You talk about earlier, you mentioned in your opening remarks, it's fun to watch when you're in contention because while you always play hard, you look like you clearly love being about that position.  Can you talk about your feelings of being in contention?
BILLY ANDRADE:  I think I'm not sloppy.  It's very clear what I'm doing.  I'm very calm.  I don't make little stupid mistakes like flub a chip and hit make bogey.  I think when you're in this position, I think all players play like this.  You know, you're sharp, and I just love it.  I just love being in this situation.  I love this feeling.  I love teeing it up.  This is what it's all about when you can go through periods of really bad play, but the bottom line is, when you get into these situations, you've got to go for it.  That's what I'm going to do tomorrow.  I just love it.  I can't wait to wake up and go back out there again.

It's neat to do it at home.  All of my wins have not been around where I grew up and/or where I live in Atlanta, and it's really cool to be able to play well in front of your home crowd.  I really didn't have a whole lot of success up at Pleasant Valley and Wooster.  I did okay maybe a couple of times, but nothing like this with a chance to win.  Nothing would be more gratifying to back up Faxon's win last week with doing it here this week.
Q.  Following up on what you said, being in the lead here, are you anymore nervous?
BILLY ANDRADE:  Not really.  I think when we get inside the ropes, I truly believe it doesn't matter if it's New England or Maui.  You're still going out there executing shots and wanting to play well.  The only difference is the accent when they start screaming and hollering at you a little different here, which I'm a little familiar with.  Today I was Barrington.  I was from Fall River, I was from all over southeastern Massachusetts, and no one once said Bristol.  Maybe they will get that right tomorrow.

It's really great to have people cheering you on because it's usually the other way around.  If you're playing with Tiger or playing with Freddie Couples, or Phil Mickelson at the third round at Doral this year was just    it was just unbelievable.  There was not one "Bill."  There was a million "Phils" being yelled.  It's kind of neat that they are yelling your name.  But you're still focused in on what you're trying to do and it would be great to win here.  But when you're in the ropes you're still kind of focused in on what you're trying to accomplish.
Q.  You had a couple pretty good birdie chances on the front side, but were 10,11, 12 key holes to your round, saving par?
BILLY ANDRADE:  Yeah, absolutely.  That's the key to anyone's round.  When you don't hit greens, you have to get up and down.  Probably the worst shot I hit all week was the one on 11 today.  I was kind of in between, it was a hard hole.  It's a hard shot, you can't keep it on the green.  Tim Petrovic today hit a beautiful shot and hit it right on the front edge and he was over.  So it's a tough one to hit.  I didn't let that one go, but I got up and down nicely.

The next hole I drove it in the right bunker and I had a terrible lie.  So I was pretty happy to hit it where I hit it in two and I had a beautiful chip up there to three feet which is big.  But when you're making those nice up and downs to keep your round together is what you need to do, especially in the third round when you're close to the lead.
Q.  From Friday last week to the first round this week, can you crystallize the one thing that turned it around?
BILLY ANDRADE:  I would say that really talking to Brad after he won, talking about the mental side of putting.  Where he was was very similar to where I am, where I was which is getting all wrapped up in mechanics and thinking too much and not letting it go.  Dr. Coop came in early this week and that's a lot of stuff we worked on.  I don't care what I do, I don't care if I miss every putt until I die, as long as I let the putt go, and that's just really neat to be able to do that.  And I've done that, really with my driver and my iron play, for about two years now since I started working with Dick.

But my putting, still I haven't got over that hump yet.  For some reason, talking to Brad on Sunday it kind of, you know, a spark went off like going, yeah, that's exactly what I'm doing.  I talked to Dick about it and he was like, okay, we have to come up with a way to have you let this putter go.  I'm a pretty good study of you, all right, you tell me what I need to do.

Golf is different than any other sport.  You have coaches in other sports that motivate you.  The only motivating coach I have is my college coach and he would get on me and I would go out, and I liked that.  But in golf, we don't have that.  Like my brother in law signed with the Houston Rockets and in his press conference he said "Jeff van Gundy, put a spark me and he got me going."  He said, "I traded for you, I want you to play, and he got him going."  See, we don't have that in golf.  We don't have somebody to tell us.  We have swing coaches and sports psychologists to get you in the right frame of mind, but nobody to give you a little spark when you need it, like, "let's go," somebody that really, like a great coach.

So I think that kind of went off with me, like, okay, I know the direction I need to go, I can go with it.  That's what I've been doing is just letting it go.  And if I fail, I fail.  At least I do it letting it go versus worrying about, "oh, don't hit it there, oh, my God, I don't want to go over there."  And then you go there most of the time.  And that's awful.  It doesn't matter if you're a pro or a 20 handicap.  It's the same thing.  If you don't let the shot go, then you're not going to hit good shots.  That's kind of it in a nutshell.
TODD BUDNICK:  Let's go over your birdies.
BILLY ANDRADE:  Sand wedge first hole in the left rough to about 15 feet and made a beautiful putt.

And the last hole, I thought I made my bunker shot, I don't know how close it came, but I had about four and a half,  5 footer there.  I was really happy to get that to go down and a lot of good ones in again.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT