U.S. SENIOR OPEN
June 27, 2019
Billy Andrade
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Nice job on the round.  Probably weren't happy with the bogey on 18?  
BILLY ANDRADE: No.   
 Q.  What was the best part of your game today with the birdies?  
BILLY ANDRADE: Got off to a nice start, birdied the first two.  I drove it well.  I think I missed one green.  So I hit everything.  I was pretty steady.  And could have been a little lower, but there were some great scores today.   
The course was there for the taking.  It was not firm.  It was firming up yesterday, and it wasn't firm at all today.  So it was -- by looking at the scores this morning, and you knew that if you drove it well, kept it in play, hit some greens, you're going to have a lot of chances, and that's what I did.   
 Q.  Take us through the good stretch there, birdies on 15, 16 and 17.  
BILLY ANDRADE: Yeah, let's see.  Actually, 14, I hit a 6-iron about six, seven feet and didn't make that.  And then 15 I hit a sand wedge in there about six feet, almost had the same kind of putt; it was a left-to-righter that I hit too hard on the one on 14, and that was a big putt to make.   
And then 16 I made the same putt, it was a left-to-righter about six, seven feet, and I made that.   
And then 17 I hit a beautiful 5-wood right over the pin on the back of the green and had a nice two-putt.  Pretty same putt as I had on the last hole that I didn't get up-and-down.   
But I'm very, very happy with the way I started, and we've got to keep grinding and keep going.   
 Q.  This is your best start in a U.S. Senior Open.  Where does that put you mentally as you go through this?  
BILLY ANDRADE: Yeah, I've been playing well of late.  So I'm very happy with it.  And this -- the way this course is, you're going to have to shoot -- every day shoot some low scores.  So I don't know how much it's going to change in the next few days, but yeah, it's great to start well, but still we've got 54 holes to go.  Can't get ahead of myself.  Just got to come out tomorrow, be ready to go and try to shoot the best I can.   
 Q.  Do you think it will still stay soft throughout the whole championship?  
BILLY ANDRADE: Well, yesterday afternoon I got done at 1:30, and it was starting to roll out pretty good.  But they've had so much rain here, and then that inch last night really changed everything to where the balls aren't running out.   
It's fairly generous off the tee, which is nice.  You're not going to hit every fairway, but the ball is hitting and stopping.  It's not hitting and bouncing, and that's a big difference when it gets like this.   
We've played in some horrible weather all year long.  We're kind of used to it.  So I love this place.  I think this golf course is fantastic.  It's pretty amazing.  It looks like a place that's been here for a hundred years.  I'm from Rhode Island, it's very similar to what I grew up on in New England, and I just absolutely love it.   
 Q.  How much of a change, if any, did you see in the putting greens as your round went along?  
BILLY ANDRADE: With the technology and now that you can -- you know, with the rule change that you can tap spike marks or anything in your way, the greens are way better.  So it's not as bad.  Usually, before this, you would have a lot of spike marks, you'd have a lot.  But with soft spikes and everything, it really wasn't that bad.  I thought the greens held up very nicely.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT