EDS BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 15, 2003
Billy Andrade
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







TODD BUDNICK:  We thank Billy Andrade for joining us, a 6-under, 64, your best round in the Byron Nelson in 21 rounds. 
Why don't we talk about it.  It looked like a good day up to the end.
BILLY ANDRADE:  Yes, the end unfortunately, I had a downhill lie with a wedge from 130 yards.  I hadn't seen a ball spin off of any greens.  I hit a pretty good shot in there and spun off the front to the front edge.  It was one of those putts where it looked like it was really slow and I knocked it by four and a half feet.  I had a tough putt, it could have broke either way.  I hit a lousy putt.  I wasn't happy with the finish, but other than that I made 7 birdies.  I made a couple of birdies out of the gate, birdied 2 and 3 and a nice comeback from last week where I really putted awful for two days at Wachovia and missed the cut.  It was nice to come out today and hit the ball well and make some niece putts.
TODD BUDNICK:  Talk about the course conditions today, no wind.
BILLY ANDRADE:  Yes, the wind being down, yesterday, in the pro-am and practice round day, the wind was blowing pretty good.  You know when the wind is not up at any tournament where you need wind to make it difficult.  You know you have to try to shoot as low as you can.  You never know what the next day is going bring. 
So Cottonwood Valley is in beautiful shape and with it not blowing hard I thought it was definitely I played a couple shots easier than normal.
TODD BUDNICK:  Questions?
Q.  Can you notice any of the changes in Cottonwood Valley, they put in new trees and bunkers?
BILLY ANDRADE:  Yes, I noticed some new trees on some holes.  I hadn't noticed the bunker.  I haven't come here enough to know.  I don't know how many competitive rounds that I had at Cottonwood Valley, but it's not that many.  I always took this week off living in Atlanta.  The way the schedule went it was kind of Houston, Atlanta, Houston.  It gave me a couple of more weeks at home in May.  So I haven't been here that much to really tell you that there has been a lot of changes.  I saw some trees on a few holes to make the shape  -- shape the holes tighter and, thank God I didn't hit them up against any of the trees.  I was okay. 

Q.  Can you talk about your putting last week, did you do anything dramatic?
BILLY ANDRADE:  No, I didn't have a very good feel for the greens last week.  The greens I thought were very difficult.  It was a first time tournament.  The greens, you know, were undulated and had a lot of slope to them.  They looked extremely fast.  I was saying, I don't think I ever played a tournament where I left more putts short.  I just had a hard time on them last week.  It's frustrating when you play out here and try to win golf tournaments and you can't get the ball in the ocean there.  And missing cuts isn't what we want to do.  It's nice to go out today, and Justin was even saying it on one hole, it's nice to be able to play break, and you kind of know it's going to go in there and it's no big deal.  These greens are nice speed.  You can make some putts if you get them on line, and they are in perfect shape.  I think that's where the scoring is pretty good.  I didn't make any drastic changes, no. 

Q.  Billy, are you surprised how soft the greens are given the fact it hasn't rained much around here?
BILLY ANDRADE:  You know, they are definitely on the soft side.  Usually when we come to Texas you usually know the ball is going to be running and playing fast, so obviously they had some amount of rain the last few weeks.  Maybe they are just soaking them, I guess.  I was real shocked on the last hole.  I hit a pretty good shot in there and it sucked back 25 feet.  I could have been in there ten feet.  So I was a little shocked at that last hole being soft.  You get what you get.  You go out there, if they are soft you got to attack.  If they are firm, you got to watch out.  I'm just happy to be here and playing.  So I don't really care if they are hard, soft, quick or dry or whatever.  I'm excited about my position and excited about playing here.

Q.  You mentioned your change in schedule, with Wachovia and the schedule change in the year, how much did you change?  A lot of players, there are some players who aren't playing here, obviously Wachovia made a big difference, how did it affect you?
BILLY ANDRADE:  Well, with me, this was years ago, it just seemed like it was the schedule that the TOUR came out with that was Houston, Atlanta, Dallas and Ft. Worth were all kind of in that mix.  I live in Atlanta, the week before was Houston, and the week after was Dallas, so it gave me three weeks at home.  Not playing Houston, play Atlanta, stay at home and skip Dallas, and I did that for a lot of years.  I started coming back here, I think, two or three years ago. Because the schedule is different now than it was.  Atlanta has changed, it's the week before The Masters. 
I started coming here and enjoying it.  I think everybody's schedule changes depending on how, you know, how it's formatted and guys go places that they know they are going to play well. 
If you don't like a place, don't go, you know.  Everybody complains about Bay Hill, don't go.  If the greens are too hard, don't go. 
TODD BUDNICK:  Thank you, Billy.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT