THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 30, 2017
Billy Andrade
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 3-under par 70, how pleased are with you that?
BILLY ANDRADE: Yeah, it was a really nice day.  I had four birdies.  Only made one bogey at 16 which was unfortunate.  I competed today.  I was in control.  I felt pretty comfortable out there.  I wish I could have made a couple more on that back nine put a little pressure on Bernhard.
But all in all, it was a great week.  It's a beautiful golf course.  Everybody is excited about how great this place is.  The weather was a little dicey this week but I think we all battled through it.  Looking forward to coming back here.  This is a fantastic placement.
Q. How tough were conditions today?
BILLY ANDRADE: The first two days were brutal.  Yesterday was a breath of fresh air, and today was a little like the first day without any rain.  The wind came back up but it was the same kind of wind.  It didn't blow out of a different direction.  A lot of left-to-rights, a few downs, turned around into the wind.  All in all, I think you look at the golf course and see the scores everybody is shooting, the golf course won.
Q. When did you feel it slipping away?
BILLY ANDRADE: The back nine, I'm still going along.  I had some good chances at birdies.  Birdied 13 and after that, I didn't get anything to drop.  All you can do is give yourself opportunities and I gave myself quite a few.
Q. Not many leaderboards, 4-under through your first 13.  Did you have a sense that you were right in the mix?
BILLY ANDRADE: I knew I was, sure.  I saw that I was close there at 8 after I birdied 8.  Miguel Martin was up there, too.  I was playing with him and he was playing great.  You were just going along trying not to make any mistakes and see if I can make a few more birdies.
My goal was to try to get in with a couple under and put some pressure on Bernhard, but all in all, it was a great week.  This is an unbelievable golf course.  It's just beautiful and really looking forward.  I heard we're coming back here in a few years.  This is quite a place.  Anyone ever has a chance to come here and play, this should be on your bucket list.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT