SEI PENNSYLVANIA CLASSIC
September 14, 2002
Billy Andrade
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 TODD BUDNICK:  WE have our third-round leader, Billy Andrade at 11-under.
BILLY ANDRADE: It was a great back nine for me.  I played pretty well the front 9.  You know, it was about four putts there that I could have made that I didn't.  I 2-putted the fifth hole, the par-5 for birdie.  And 3 putted 9 for bogey, so even on the front, you know it looked like everybody ahead of us was playing some great golf and, you know, the wind starting to pick up a little bit.  I thought -- it looked like it was going to start raining there about 11, and I think the turning point to my round was 11.  I drove it in the right rough and I caught a bad lie in the bunker and I was a very happy to make bogey but that put me 7-under.  I saw a slew of guys at 8-under.  You don't know what tomorrow is going to be.  When you are the second-round leader, you don't want to give up the lead and the next day you don't play and you lose, so that was in the back of my mind and I felt like at 7-under it was time to get off the pot.  So a nice birdie at 12, a nice birdie at 13.  I hit a beautiful 7-iron at 4, it's was the absolutely wrong club.  My caddy and I both screwed that one up.  And I hit it over the green which is dead.  I'm happy to make bogey there and then birdies  at 15, 16 and I saw where Jeff was 10-under.  He birdied the last hole and I was 10-under so I really wanted to get that last one up and down and get to 11 could keep the lead and I hit one of the best bunker shots that I hit in a while.  I hit it to a foot. 
All in all a great day and I am looking forward to tomorrow and going out with Jeff and Ian and trying to wrap this thing up.
TODD BUDNICK:  Ian mentioned that his putt for eagle he was thinking if I hit this putt it puts me in a good position in case we don't play tomorrow   - were you thinking the same thing then?
BILLY ANDRADE: Well, you know, you don't know what this hurricane is doing but I sure as heck wanted the lead versus not having the lead going into Sunday just in case something does happen where we can't play.  My mindset going in is tomorrow we are going to play 18 holes and I am playing with these guys and there is a lot of guys that have a chance to win.  Everybody is bunched up and I'm going to have to go out and play a heck of a round to win.  That's the way I'm looking at it. 
TODD BUDNICK:  Questions.
Q.    After you put that bunker shot on 18, and it started to pour, were you worried, the conditions like that, you would be able to play well?
BILLY ANDRADE: I played great in the crap and I played lousy in the crap.  I got the lead.  I'm playing well and you know, it's not just going to rain on me tomorrow; it's going to rain on everybody.  I grew up in Rhode Island.  I grew up in this stuff.  I will adapt just fine and, you know, everyone is going to be at a little disadvantage if it is a lousy day to play.  Somebody is going to go out and play a heck of a round of golf.  I'm going to make sure that I'm one of those guys.

Q.    Billy, is that kind of the mentality I got the lead, come catch me?
BILLY ANDRADE: Well, when do you have the lead, they are catching you, I have been doing this for a long time and I know that one shot doesn't mean diddly, so I'm not going to go out there tomorrow and think if I, you know, just make 18 straight parts that I'm going to have a chance to win.  Maybe it will.  I don't know what tomorrow is going to bring as far how hard it's going to play.  There is a lot of guys that have a chance, a lot of great players, a lot of guys that one before.  I just have to go out and still play solid golf.

Q.    A lot of veteran names behind you, to?
BILLY ANDRADE: Yes, so old guys, too.  I'm sort of old, but there are so older guys.

Q.    You mentioned you have been doing this a long time.  Does that help you when you are not making any ground, you see a lot of low scores, to be patient, eventually it will come?
BILLY ANDRADE: Yes, I think so.  Maybe early in my career I pushed it a little bit.  Now I know a couple of holes can change everything.  There is really nothing you can do except take care of yourself.  You see Dan Forsman putting up a great round, Jeff Sluman played great, Mark O'Meara played great.  It kind of goes to show you that maybe, you know, there are some birdies  out there; that maybe you can  get.  And you are only on the 7th hole.  I think maybe if I was a rookie or a young kid and I saw all of that, it might distract me from putting up a good score.

Q.    Do you know this Jeff Brehaut very well?
BILLY ANDRADE: I don't. I know he is a real nice guy.  Chatted with him a few times.  I never played with him.  So I'm looking forward to it.  He seems like a nice man.
TODD BUDNICK:  Okay.  Anything else?  Thank you.
BILLY ANDRADE: Thanks guys.




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT