GTE BYRON NELSON GOLF CLASSIC
May 11, 2000
Billy Andrade
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 BILLY ANDRADE: Well, I kind of think that if it gets any worse, they are going to have
to think about maybe calling it. The front nine was playable, it seemed, and the back nine
just seemed to get tougher and tougher, over across the street. I don't know what it's
like over here, but it's got to be very, very difficult. The winds, it's very strong, I
don't know what direction it's coming out of, but it seems that the golf ball and some
shots that in my group hit today looked like a whiffle ball out there. When you can't
control your ball all the time, it plays -- it plays a lot harder. I haven't played this
golf tournament a whole lot, and I haven't played Cottonwood but one time; so I really
don't know much about it, but I know it's easier -- they say it's easier than TPC. But I'm
elated shooting 2-under there and happy with it, and it's -- it's tough. Calcavecchia
today had a tough time. Loren Roberts shot even; he played well. But I think the hard part
about when the wind is blowing is chipping and putting. You know, you're not going to hit
a lot of greens and you're going to hit some chip shots that are funny, and it's hard to
putt. And when the conditions are like that, the scores go up, and that's what happened.  
 
 BILLY ANDRADE: Yeah.  
 
 BILLY ANDRADE: I do. I had a couple chances at birdies, but saved myself with some nice
up-and-downs on the back. I haven't had a very good year, and my start hopefully will be
here. I've played very well this year, I just haven't seen any results whatsoever. So
hopefully, this will be the start of something great.  
 
Q. Billy, traditionally, the scores get pretty low here. Last year one group in the
opening group had guys 61s, 62s, 63s, do you think this might be one of the highest
scoring tournaments?
 
 BILLY ANDRADE: If every day is like today, yes. I don't know what the highest scoring
Nelson is, what the record is for the highest score, but if you have four days that blows
like this, then definitely, you know, it's going to be hard. Where's Davis playing today?  
 
Q. Where were your birdies today? 
 
 BILLY ANDRADE: I birdied one -- I birdied 1. I hit an 8-iron about ten -- eight, ten
feet, made that. 6, I hit a sand wedge about five feet, and the next hole I hit a sand
wedge about three feet. So those were my three birdies on the front. On 9, I hit a 5-iron
186 yards thinking it was the right club, and I hit it over the green about 20 yards; so,
it was obviously not a 5-iron. It was way the hell over the green, too. I was happy to
make a 4. 10 and 11, I had a couple of opportunities there that I didn't capitalize on.
And then the last hole, I had a pretty close putt there that I didn't make. But in between
there, I made some nice up-and-downs, and I'm very, very happy with posting the 68 today.  
 
Q. Any specifics, any shots in particular that the wind --
 
 BILLY ANDRADE: Yeah, I hit a 6-iron from 150 yards on 15 up the hill. Normally I hit a
6-iron around 180. I can hit is a little further if I needed to. And the minute I hit it,
I started walking, because it was just crisp, perfect shot. And it came up 20 yards short
of the pin, short of the bunker, and it was just like -- totally shocked. And then the
next hole, 16, I missed the fairway left next to a tree; chipped it down. I had 80 yards
to the pin and I hit a sand wedge, and the minute I hit it, I thought I was playing
whiffle ball with my kid because it just went, whew, straight up, and it came up way
short. I probably hit that about 60 yards. Loren Roberts, we were both talking on 17 and
18 how, you know, I think the hardest thing is patience and staying patient. And I think
that's what gets everybody is you get a little testy, you hit some shots that are funny,
and you start getting upset or start losing your patience, and when you do that, you're
toast.  
 
Q. You said you haven't been playing well coming in?
 
 BILLY ANDRADE: No, I haven't. I haven't had a very good year so far. 
 
Q. Do conditions like this, does that maybe bring everybody back? Does that work to
your advantage?
 
 BILLY ANDRADE: I think if you play in lousy conditions, they are really bad. You want
it to be, like, perfect if you're playing bad. 
 
Q. Are you surprised you played well? 
 
 BILLY ANDRADE: Not really, because I haven't seen results; it's not that I haven't
played well. I've missed a lot of cuts. You know, I've felt -- I felt great over the ball.
I just haven't made a lot of putts. My whole career, I've been a very good putter and I
just haven't made anything. You know, everything is result-oriented. What you shoot is
what you shoot, and if you're not shooting good numbers, you don't make any money out
here. So I'm confident with the way I'm playing. I just haven't seen anything yet, and
hopefully this will be a nice start to a nice stretch run, because I'm playing a lot of
tournaments up to the Open. So I think it's going to be great.  
 
Q. On some holes, like over here, I know No. 7, the par 5 is downwind and everybody is
bombing it, whatever, down there, and it's playing like a par 4, but the one coming back
is almost the opposite. Do you have to adjust mentally to compensate for those sort of
things? 
 
 BILLY ANDRADE: What you do mentally is you'd better birdie that hole downwind, because
you know the hole coming back you have a good chance of making bogey. So you just know,
you just know going out, you know, the way the wind is blowing that you need to capitalize
on certain holes; and try to make some birdies or have a chance to make birdies on those
holes, because you know the holes that are coming back into the wind are going to be very
difficult to make par.  
 
Q. Do you feel like you did that? Did you capitalize on the ones you needed to today?
 
 BILLY ANDRADE: I got off to a nice start with birdie, being 3-under out after 7; so
getting off to a nice start like that puts you in a nice frame of mind and gets you kind
of going. And after that, you're just trying to survive it seemed like, as the wind picked
up.  
 
End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT