THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 23, 2016
Billy Andrade
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BILLY ANDRADE: It's a 4 1/2, isn't it?  It's not a par 4; it's a 4 1/2 over there on 18.  It's a hard hole.  But overall, I played a solid round of golf today.  I had two 3-putts and I bogeyed the last to shoot 68, so it could have been really great.   
But today, like the first couple days, it's there for the taking.  I really played well today and excited about being a little bit in the mix.   
 Q.  Would you say it's the toughest conditions you've had this week?  
BILLY ANDRADE: Today, yeah, I would say so.  I think it was a little different today.  A little different wind.  But you're just programmed to come here and fight a lot of wind.  So not much wind has been great.  I heard the forecast tomorrow might be rain.  But you know what, I'm happy with where I'm at, and you know, just see if we can go out tomorrow and shoot another good score.   
 Q.  Are you going to change anything ahead of the final round?  
BILLY ANDRADE: Not really.  Just see if I can make a few more putts.   
 Q.  How much do you enjoy the challenge of Scottish golf?  
BILLY ANDRADE: It's fantastic.  We obviously don't get a chance to do this much, so to come over here, you have to play different shots and stuff like that, is great, and this is the home.  This is the home of the game.  I love the tradition of it.  I love everything about it.  It's been a wonderful -- I've always enjoyed my time coming over here.   
 Q.  You've won on the Champions Tour obviously.  What would it take to get it done tomorrow?  I know it's quite a congested leaderboard.  
BILLY ANDRADE: If I can go out and play a really solid round like I did today, and maybe a couple more here or there would have fallen in, maybe not make a whole lot of -- I made three mistakes today.  If I can cut down the mistakes and have a chance, who knows.  Maybe I'm in a good position, being a little back.  Post a score and have the leaders come down and have to face those last three holes.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT