US OPEN
September 4, 2004
Sargis Sargsian
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions.  
 
 
Q.  Couple of easy matches back to back. 
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  Yeah.  It's exciting.  
 
Q.  How tired are you?
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  I'm tired, but, I tell you, my legs, they going to hang in there, I think.  I think I'm mentally tired, you know, with all this stuff.  But just for me the most important thing is my legs. 
 
Q.  Can you describe your emotions after tonight's match, when you fell to the ground there. 
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  You know, it's just such a relief.  Such a close match, you want to win so badly.  It's one of your biggest matches.  I don't know.  It's an amazing feeling, I tell you.  
 
Q.  Could you ever imagine after the Massu match that you'd come back and have such a similar match in terms of length and excitement?
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  I'll tell you, no, definitely not.  Definitely I didn't think it would be a match like this.  It's hard to beat Massu's match.  We probably did today.  So I don't know.  
 
Q.  Have you stopped smiling since the end of the match?
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  I tell you what, when you -- it's like you're in a different world when you win these matches.  You don't even always smile.  Like right now, I'm talking, I feel like it's not me talking, you know, it's just the words don't come out.  It's a weird feeling. 
 
Q.  Can you try and describe it. 
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  Gosh.  I don't know, it's tough to describe.  
 
Q.  You're down two sets tonight.  What in you told you you had enough left to come back and win three?
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  I just -- the first two sets, I didn't feel like I was playing my best.  So that just kept me positive, you know.  I always felt like if I would find my game, I would have a good chance to win, even though I was down two sets.  So it was like the whole first three sets, you know, I felt like I was in a search of my game.  And I was lucky.  I picked it up, my game, in the third and fourth.  
 
Q.  In 1995, you were one match away from meeting Andre in the Round of 16.  At that time it would be a great opportunity.  How excited are you to play Andre in a Grand Slam? 
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  It's like a dream, you know, to play against such a legend on such a court, on such a big tournament.  I don't know.  Hopefully I play good.  Hopefully we have a good match.  Hopefully he doesn't kill me (smiling).  I don't know.  Hopefully I'm fresh for that match. 
 
Q.  Did you speak with him in the last days?
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  Yeah.  I've spoken to him every day.  He's actually been unbelievable helpful to me.  After Massu's match, he helped me out with some electrolytes, with some pills to recover, which he's been using.  He's just an amazing friend.  I actually spoke to him five minutes ago.  He says he's going to help me out tomorrow also, even though we play each other.  I don't know.  
 
Q.  Is it because of the Armenian roots, one of the reasons why you get along very well with him? 
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  Maybe.  Maybe it is a reason, but I don't think so.  I mean, I don't know.  You should ask him why.  I mean, because we are friends - I've said this before - because we are friends, it's because he wants to be my friend.  He is Agassi, everybody wants to be friends with him.  To me, he's like a big brother, you know.  He's an unbelievably nice guy.  He's an unbelievable friend, as good of a friend as you can possibly have.  I just look at him as a big brother.  The way he talks to people, the way he treats good people, the way he treats bad people, the way he talks, the way he behaves, just I don't know.  He's -- I love the guy.  
 
Q.  If you had to put your finger on his very best quality, the thing you really like the best about him, what would you say?
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  His heart.  He has an amazing heart.  
 
Q.  What's it like to practice with him?
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  It's good practice (smiling).  The intensity's as high as it possibly can get.  It's the best practice you can get.  
 
Q.  Are your matches being televised back in Armenia?  Are people at home able to watch any of this?
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  I don't know.  I don't know.  
 
Q.  We don't know too much about Armenia.  Is there a special bond amongst Armenians in the USA?  What's the best quality of the Armenian people? 
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  They're very friendly people.  They're the kind of people that, let's say if you're a guest or something, you will be treated -- I say they will open the best bottle of wine for you.  They will not drink it themselves.  It's very, I don't know, very good people. 
 
Q.  Who is the most famous athlete in Armenia?
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  Agassi. 
 
Q.  Who is the most famous Armenian athlete?  Not you?
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  I don't know.  I mean, I don't know.  There's so many.  It's hard to say.  It's only Armenians, play for other countries.  Armenian who is playing for Armenia?  
 
Q.  Just any sport.  Is there a soccer player, boxer?
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  Do you want me to say me?  
 
Q.  I'm curious. 
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  We don't have one that really stands out.  Put it this way.  
 
Q.  If I understand correctly, you're based in Florida.  Have you had any contacts with the tennis playing community in Burbank, California?
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  Yes, I do.  Actually my coach, who has been coaching me since I was 7 years old up until I came to the US when I was 20, he lives in Burbank.  I have a couple other very close friends who also live there.  I played a challenger there actually before.  I've been there a couple times.  So I know a lot of people.  I do speak to them sometimes, once in a while.  I do have a lot of contacts there.  
 
Q.  Do you think they're celebrating in Burbank?
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  I'm sure.  I'm sure.  
 
Q.  Your style seems to lend itself to these long matches.  Do you make conditioning a big thing?  Do you consider yourself extremely well-conditioned for a tennis player?
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  I think so.  I think I have good genetics.  I think that's the most important.  I was born lucky.  I'm very fast on the court.  I have a body that doesn't get injured a lot.  So, yeah, those are the most important:  the speed and endurance, which I have worked on it before.  And with my game, too, I definitely need to do some runnings.  It's definitely one of my weapons, my condition.  
 
Q.  What's the coolest thing the USTA executive Arlen Kantarian has said about tennis and you?
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  What's the coolest thing he said about tennis in Armenia?  
 
Q.  Or you. 
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  About me?  I don't understand the question.  
 
Q.  Has Arlen spoken to you?
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  Yeah.  He's a great guy, too.  I've spoken to him almost every day here.  He's actually been helping me out a little bit with the tickets for my Armenian fans.  Him and Jim Curley, too, they've been amazing.  
 
Q.  It helps to have Armenians in high places?
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  Oh, yeah.  I tell you this, this tournament, I always played unbelievable, for some reason the last four, five years.  Even like this year is a perfect example.  I've had, I consider, a pretty horrendous year.  I really struggled.  But coming here, you don't even -- like I didn't feel like I was coming here in a good condition, like I was in a good form.  But just the atmosphere in the city, which is my favorite city in the world, and this tournament and my fans, I don't know, it just clicked.  I just start playing good.  
 
Q.  Knowing how much Andre would like to win another Slam, especially here, as good a friend as you are, would you feel bad if you beat him on Monday?
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  No, no, no.  I want to win badly.  I'm not going to feel bad.  Yeah, I'm definitely going to give my best and I'm sure he's going to give his best, too.  If I lose, then I really hope he wins the tournament.  But if I win, I'll be happy.  
 
Q.  In the media sometimes we have to pick the match of the tournament.  Many look to the Massu match.  It was longer than tonight's.  Which of the two matches would you pick?
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  Which of my matches?  
 
Q.  Of your two matches. 
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  Probably today's, this match against Mathieu was more exciting than the other.  
 
Q.  More back and forth?
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  Yes, the end was so close, you know.  Like 5-All, having so many chances to break him, then going down to 5-6, I think two or three match points down.  Just finishing up on the tiebreak.  Was just...  
 
Q.  When did you and Andre become friends?
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  The way it happened, we were both going to play the tournament in San Jose.  At the time I knew his coach, Brad Gilbert.  I knew him.  We kind of both had like a week before, the week before San Jose, we weren't doing anything, so we got together in San Francisco to practice.  So there was this first just getting together to practice and get ready for San Jose. 
 
Q.  How long ago was it?
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  It was a long time ago.  '97 maybe.  
 
Q.  Mr. Masourian come?
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  Yes, they've been here every day.  My grandfather, he's 102 years old. 
 
Q.  The Masourian family was here? 
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  Yeah, the Masourian family, they live there.  But their father, Minas Masourian, he lives in New Jersey.  He's my biggest fan.  
 
Q.  Your grandfather is 102?
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  Yeah.  He's not my grandfather by blood.  But what happened, when I came to US, I was staying with the Masourian family in New Haven.  So they're like my American family.  I speak to them all the time, I stay in contact.  So their father, I consider him as my grandfather.  He played tennis himself.  He was from Iran.  He was the champion in Iran.  All his life has been tennis.  He's Armenian.  He loves it.  
 
Q.  What's his name?
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  Minas Masourian.  
 
Q.  Was he here to watch the match?
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  Oh, yeah, he was there, actually.  He was driving like eight years ago. 
 
Q.  He was here tonight?
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  He was there, yes.  
 
Q.  How is his down the line backhand?
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  It's pretty good, I tell you. 
 
Q.  He'll be here for the Agassi match?
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  Oh, for sure.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT