US OPEN
August 29, 2003
Sargis Sargsian
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 
 
 
Q.  Very emotional match, obviously, in a way.  Did you think you had him after you came back from the breaker there?
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  I can't say I had him, but I think if I would have won the fourth set, I would have had a good chance in the fifth I think.  Because I was feeling good with my game.  And I just felt good how the match was going.  
 
Q.  The backhand volley at the end, what do you think happened there? 
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  I don't know why I missed that actually.  I have no idea.  I have no idea.  Just took my eyes off the ball, I guess. I don't know what happened. 
 
Q.  What's different about his game today as opposed to when you played him at Wimbledon? 
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  Well, two things.  It's a different surface.  It's a little faster and  -- I'm not sure, but I don't think James like when you go  -- when it's really too fast.  I don't think he likes it too much. The other thing, I was playing probably the best tennis of my career in Wimbledon, so, in that match.  
 
Q.  You tried, often with success, attacking his backhand.  Has that shot improved a bit from what you can tell in the last year or two, his backhand?
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  His backhand?  I'm sure it improved, has improved.  I mean, he's improving every year.  His forehand is just so great, you know.  So it's  -- which makes his backhand a weakness.  So that's where you try to go.  
 
Q.  Are you satisfied with the way you attacked his second serve today? 
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  It was  -- I wasn't really trying to attack his serve.  It was so windy, it was so tough, that I was just basically trying to get back on the court.  It was tough.  I mean, I wasn't trying to attack it.  
 
Q.  You said on TV you used to be practice partners back in Connecticut, is that true, with James? 
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  Yeah, yeah.  When I came to the States, 10 years ago, in '93, James was a little kid, you know.  I was playing the prize money weekend tournaments.  I actually saw Thomas, his brother, a lot of time.  James was a kid.  I remember watching him play, you know, couple times we just hit, you know, kind of doing him a favor (laughing). But, yeah, it's true, yeah.  
 
Q.  What do you remember about him at that age?  Did he show promise to be a great player?
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  I remember the first time when I saw him, he was like  -- I can't even tell how old he was, but he was a kid.  Takes this backhand return down the line, comes down the line.  I was like, "Who the hell is this kid?  Who does he think he is?" It kind of shocked me. 
 
Q.  Were you living in Connecticut? 
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  Yeah, basically.  I met a family, the family that were here today.  They basically  -- they didn't adopt me, but I was staying with them and they pretty much sponsored me until I went to college and made a little name, then went on the tour, started making my own money. 
 
Q.  Where in Connecticut was it?
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  In New Haven. 
 
Q.  And James was living...? 
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  James, I think, was somewhere around there.  
 
Q.  If you would have guessed, would you have guessed Thomas or James would have become the better player?
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  It's so tough to guess in this sport.  I told you, I was impressed by James when I saw, but still  -- but it's too hard to guess.  You have no idea who's gonna be good, who's gonna be... 
 
Q.  How fast is he on the court compared to other players? 
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  You know, he surprises you so many times.  He's just very  -- when he gets speed, he's very unbelievably fast.  He has a good eye.  He guesses a lot, he knows which way you gonna go.  It's tough.  He makes you hit a lot of balls.  
 
Q.  Serving at 6-5, fourth set...
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  Yeah. 
 
Q.  Then the break.  You served for the set, right?
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  Yeah, it was at 5-4.  
 
Q.  5-4, sorry.  That game...? 
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  Well, I mean, he hit  -- it was 15-love, he hit an unbelievable return off my first serve, which shouldn't have happened, so... And then I missed a couple forehands.  But that side was the toughest side, you know.  It's against the wind.  He just played a good game.  
 
Q.  Was it kind of hard for the crowd?  You know, were they distracting to you? 
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  No, no.  Not really.  It's just a great atmosphere.  Too much fun to play. 
 
Q.  There was a shot where you crossed a little bit to finish it.  Could you talk about that? 
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  That was a joke.  That was a... That was a joke.  
 
Q.  Were you surprised, I think it was the ninth game of the first set, when he did that  -- ran down a ball and did that kind of leaping-passing-shot cross court.  Were you surprised that he ran that one down? 
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  You mean off my overhead?  
 
Q.  Yeah. 
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  Yeah, it was  -- he just guessed it right.  I should have put the ball away, but it's  -- just guessed it right, and then he jumped higher than I've ever seen anyone jump, so it was... 
 
Q.  Clarify one last point again, when you were saying you were hitting with James.  That was right after you got out of college, that's when you used to hit with James?  You said he was a kid?
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  Yeah, he was probably  -- was probably more before I went to college.  Probably more  -- I hit with him more before I went to college.  I think I hit with him a few times in the summer.  I was in college for two years.  The college between the years I think I hit with him. Then I also hit with him a few times when I was on the tour and he was much older.  
 
Q.  After the US Open, how do you assess yourself and get ready for next year? 
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  How do I get ready?  
 
Q.  Yes, after the US Open, how do you assess your game and career for next year? 
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  How do I get ready for the next tournament?  
 
Q.  Yes. 
 
SARGIS SARGSIAN:  Well, it's  -- it depends.  Usually you take a couple of days off, kind of recharge yourself.  Then I'm back to the training, so... 
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT