US OPEN
August 31, 1997
Sargis Sargsian
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. What happened with that disagreement with the umpire in the third set? Critical
point. It was called in, called out, overruled that it was in.

SARGIS SARGSIAN: I mean, I'll be honest with you, the ball was probably in, probably
caught the line a little bit. But it's like, I was pissed because sometimes you ask the
umpires, they say it's too far to overrule; I don't see that line. It's hard to see for
me. It's the hardest line to overrule. He overrules it; it's a close call. I don't know. I
really disagreed with that, even though the ball was probably good.

Q. Was that a point that was kind of critical, do you think? It came at a critical
time, 3-3 in that set trying to come back. Was that kind of a turning point?

SARGIS SARGSIAN: Yeah. I was up a break at that point. Just like struggling, holding my
serve. Really needed every point at that time. I don't know. Just came at a bad time. 

Q. Overall, you almost took Chang to four or five sets. Are you pleased with your
performance at the US Open?

SARGIS SARGSIAN: Am I pleased?

Q. Yes? Do you feel you could have done even much better? Did you play well out there?

SARGIS SARGSIAN: I played good till the end. I wasn't very confident in the beginning,
a little nervous, you know. Am I happy about my tournament? Yeah, I'm happy about my
points, but I got a walkover in the second round. I had a tough match in the first one.

Q. Are you going to stick around or are you headed back somewhere?

SARGIS SARGSIAN: I think I'm going to take a week off and hang around in New Jersey
with a couple of my buddies.

Q. Was it just the nervousness of being out there in the stadium, in the crowd,
National TV, No. 2 player in the world? You seemed a little nervous at the start.

SARGIS SARGSIAN: I'm sure that's what it was. Lately, I haven't been starting the
matches really confident, you know. I've been probably getting broken most of my first
service games. Those are not good results. I've really got to work on it to figure out
what's happening.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT