U.S. OPEN
September 2, 1995
Sargis Sargsian
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Tell us a little bit about the match, did you ever feel that you were in it or just
a bad day?
 
 SARGIS SARGSINA: I guess, you can say bad day. I think, I wasn't serving well at all
today. So I was really having hard time holding my serve, and he had been playing well. If
you can't hold your serve against a guy like Palmer, you know, you are going to lose. 
 
Q. You think -- was today kind of a logical deviation after what you have been through
in the last week or so, or did you feel you had the same amount of energy and same amount
of focus as you had in the last two matches?
 
 SARGIS SARGSIAN: Maybe not. You know, maybe I wasn't as fired up. When I beat Medvedev,
I felt like I accomplished something, I don't know. 
 
Q. So why weren't you as fired up, what do you think?
 
 SARGIS SARGSIAN: I think I was pretty fired up. It is just -- I don't know, maybe I was
tired a little from previous two matches and, I don't know, pretty windy. I couldn't
really serve. It was really frustrating me. Other than that, he was playing really well, I
think. 
 
Q. Can you talk about the differences playing college and on the pro tour, aside from
the obvious ones of the competition being at a different level? There are other
differences that make it a lot tougher?
 
 SARGIS SARGSIAN: Yeah, the game here is much faster. I mean, everything, the guy just
don't give up the matches. In college, maybe you get a couple of games for free, you know;
here, they don't miss much. So you really have to work hard for the points. 
 
Q. Can you just go back over the last 24 hours whatever, I mean, your mother and your
younger brother are here. Can you tell us what that was like? Were they here today? Did
you feel pressure about that or maybe distracted?
 
 SARGIS SARGSIAN: I didn't think I was distracted. I mean, yeah, they came the day
before yesterday. I had a normal day yesterday. I practiced. I didn't do anything
different, and I don't think I had pressure.  
 
Q. Can you compare your run here to winning the NCAA tournament, and what it has meant
for you?
 
 SARGIS SARGSIAN: My run -- 
 
Q. Your success here versus the NCAA tournament in terms of the comparison of
excitement? How do you compare getting to the third round U.S. Open versus winning the
NCAA tournament?
 
 SARGIS SARGSIAN: Well, I mean, both of them are pretty big. As I said yesterday, I
think this is like a little bigger for me getting to the third round than winning the
NCAA. 
 
Q. Do you think you proved to yourself anything by what you did in this tournament? Do
you think you showed that you deserved or you belong to be a professional player or --
 
 SARGIS SARGSIAN: No, you never can say from one tournament, I mean, all I did, I won
two matches, and so I don't think that is enough. I mean, -- 
 
Q. Still if someone had come to you when you first came to America for your matches
with the Ivy League schools and said you will stay here; you may win the NCAA Championship
and reach the third round of the U.S. Open, what would you say to that person?
 
 SARGIS SARGSIAN: I say, I am staying for sure then. I mean, I don't know, what could I
say? I would be happy. I mean, I kind of went to school to win the NCAA, so I will get a
wildcard over here. That was one of the biggest goals in college, so... And so I
accomplished this. 
 
Q. Would you have been ready to turn pro without going to college, do you think?
 
 SARGIS SARGSIAN: Was I ready? 
 
Q. Would you have been ready, say, if you had come here and not gotten the scholarship;
would you have been ready to turn pro then or it would have taken a longer time?
 
 SARGIS SARGSIAN: I think, I would be struggling for -- I mean, I was already 20 years
old, and I was not playing well at all and I don't think I would ever accomplish what I
accomplished now, you know. 
 
Q. How was it to see your family?
 
 SARGIS SARGSIAN: Yeah, it was nice, I mean, I missed them a lot, so... 
 
Q. Did you feel like -- were they kind of amazed to come out here and first day in
America suddenly at the U.S. Open with you and somebody --
 
 SARGIS SARGSIAN: Yeah, they kind of came in on the perfect day, the day I beat
Medvedev, they were kind of shocked. It was like.... 
 
Q. Like what?
 
 SARGIS SARGSIAN: Like a miracle. But it is not going to be that any more, I guess.
Thank you very much. 
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT