NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIP
March 20, 2015
Taylor Walsh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   We welcome 165 pound finalist, Taylor Walsh of Indiana.   Start us off with an opening statement about your match tonight.   
TAYLOR WALSH:   It was a good match, tough match.   The kid was strong.   I knew that he was going to go hard, so I just tried to prepare myself for a tough 7‑minute match.   I thought I'd be able to catch him in some stuff where I could score some back points.   I almost had back points in the first period and kind of opened match up a little.   
But still getting him on his back was just big.   From the first period I got the ride out.   It was important to score early, so it was good getting those first early points to coast to a nice win.  
   
 Q.   You're a wrestler, you've had a ton of success and very dangerous, but you've also had it where it didn't go well for you.   Have you had to change your mentality?   Also talk about the fact that you chose to move up to 165 pounds this year.   
TAYLOR WALSH:   I think the move up was big for me.   It enabled me to concentrate on my wrestling more than cutting weight and getting extra workouts in the night before matches of a tournament.   
So I'm definitely a big believer in feeling good and not having to cut too much weight.   I think that was a big thing going up a weight class, feeling good, feeling strong.   
Yeah, it's tough the past couple years not having good seasons and then winning the pin championship and not getting an All‑American finish.   
So I think it was big to be able to get out here, get to the finals.   I've got some family and friends here, lot of friends watching and coming down.   
It's been a tough year.   I've had some ups and downs, a couple losses I wish I could get back.   But in the scheme of things, I'm in the finals now, so it makes it better.  
   
 Q.   Fun getting to the national stage and having another Jersey guy across the way from you?   
TAYLOR WALSH:   Yeah, it was a little weird the way the bracket played out.   My brother said that you'd be the one to have the Jersey kid in the semifinals.   But he's a tough wrestler and deserves what he got, so it was a good match.   I'm just excited.  
   
 Q.   Your thoughts about Alex Dieringer who you're going to wrestle in the finals?   Any history and any thoughts on what it will take to beat him?   
TAYLOR WALSH:   Yeah, he's a big name.   But I think a lot of times the first time wrestling a guy I can give him some fits because they don't know my style and I can just work my stuff.   Obviously returning national champ, figured if I got to the finals I would have him.   So I've watched some of his matches.   
But just need to concentrate on my wrestling and making sure I'm doing what I do best, which is hopefully put him in trouble.  
   
 Q.   You once again said your style.   What is that style right now?   Is it funk, is it something else?   What is it?   
TAYLOR WALSH:   Yeah, I mean, I guess a lot of times people do consider it funk.   But my coach always says like if I would win a close match in a season that you're not going to pin everybody.   You need to be ready to go, those hard, tough matches and be satisfied with one‑point wins sometimes because sometimes guys just don't wrestle you or don't open up as much.   
But my style kind of just trying to worry about what I do best and making sure that I do my moves and not wrestle to other people's style.   So just going out there and doing what I do best and staying strong and working into my stance and playing a lot more this year has helped me to get here.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT