FORD CHAMPIONSHIP AT DORAL
March 9, 2003
Steve Lyons
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 JOHN BUSH:  We have Steve Lyons, President of Ford here.  We are going to get Steve to make a comment on his thoughts on the end of the tournament and I think these guys might have a couple of questions for you.
STEVE LYONS: Great, I was just telling all of the volunteers downstairs, I said I guess this is Florida.  Nobody decides election or golf tournaments on time.  So you know it was really exciting.  It's been a great week.  I can't even imagine how we could have scripted it any better.  It will be fun in the morning.  It's to too bad it had to go one more day.
JOHN BUSH:  Open it up for questions.
Q.  The fans, do you have to show a ticket tomorrow to get in?
STEVE LYONS: Tom Neville has all of the good answers for this stuff. 
TOM NEVILLE:  Tomorrow it's open to the public, open at 6 a.m., playoffs start at 8. 

Q.  The parking lots?
TOM NEVILLE:  They will be in function, no charge, everything will be run as normal.

Q.  Your thoughts about the crowd reaction when it was decided to be called, both of you if I could?
STEVE LYONS:  You got to respect the wishes of the players here.  The crowd wanted to see the finish.  We don't blame them for that.  The players are playing for a lot of money.  This is a big deal.  You got to do the right thing here. 
TOM NEVILLE:  I can't add anything to that.  That's perfect. 

Q.  You do have to show your ticket to get in tomorrow?
TOM NEVILLE:  No tickets.

Q.  This isn't your jurisdiction, I know I forgot to ask Slugger, do you know if those markers on the greens  --
STEVE LYONS: You need to talk to the PGA. 

Q.  Do you know whether they do markers on the green?
JOHN BUSH:  You would have to direct that to Slugger.

Q.  Is Slugger around?
JOHN BUSH:  I'm not sure if he is.  In terms of speaking on behalf of Ford, how do you look at it in terms of a tournament that obviously is really exciting toward the end and, obviously, you would like to have it finished up there.  But, obviously, you are going to have a lot of publicity from this carrying over tonight and into tomorrow morning.
STEVE LYONS: Sure, we are excited about.  You look into the field and how tight the field was, how it came down to a strong finish.  Obviously the television ratings will be terrific.  People are excited to be here.  It just don't get any better.  This is what it's all about.  I was telling the group downstairs.  I can't wait for next year to get here.




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT