NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: GOLDEN KNIGHTS vs JETS
May 19, 2018
Brayden McNabb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Brayden, a 3-1 series lead.  Closing out they say is the hardest game.  What is the mentality of your group?  
BRAYDEN McNABB: Yeah, get a good rest day today, we want to have a good start, focus on the first period, go from there.  We know they come out pretty hard in the first period.  I think the focus now is to get reenergized, make sure we have a good start.   
 Q.  Do you think you handled their push a little bit better last night?  Game 3, it was kind of an onslaught in the third.  Did you do a better job of it last night in the third?  
BRAYDEN McNABB: Yeah, I thought we were better.  My penalty to start the period didn't help.  We were better, for sure.  It's another area we can improve on.   
You know, definitely a positive on improving on their push, for sure.   
 Q.  You look at the ice team.  You and Spinner at the top of the list around 24 minutes.  It's really evenly balanced.  There's not a huge gap between a bunch of different guys.  What does that do for your group late in the third?  
BRAYDEN McNABB: It's huge.  It's how it's been all year.  Everyone is playing pretty even minutes.  It helps in the long run.  It's almost like our forwards, too.  We like to roll four when we can, use everyone.  That's kind of been our MO all year.  It's definitely helped us throughout the playoffs.   
 Q.  We have talked a lot about staying in the moment and not worrying about what's ahead or what's behind.  Is that harder to do when you know that a win could put you into the Stanley Cup Final?  
BRAYDEN McNABB: I mean, you obviously think about it.  We've been very good all year one game at a time.  This is a very good team we're playing.  It's going to be tough to finish them out.   
We can't get too far ahead.  You've got to stay with the process.  You can't push the process.  Now it's just Game 5.  That's our main focus.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT