THE SENIOR OPEN PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 28, 2019
Tim Petrovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Thoughts on your round today?
TIM PETROVIC: It was tough.  I think we lucked out on the front nine with the rain holding off.  We got nine dry ones and took advantage of that, four birdies, and then as soon as we turned back, we knew we had our hands full with that wind blowing across the golf course.  It was playing tough for sure.
Q. Was that one of your toughest challenges to play in these conditions this week?
TIM PETROVIC: You know, when I was younger, I was a good -- we call it in the States, we call it a "mudder."  You're a good mudder if you play good in the rain.
Years past, I've had some trouble and I think the more that I play over here, I think I get -- not so much getting used to the conditions but just trying not to do too much.  Just do what you're able to do and swing the way you're able to swing when the weather is like this.  Just to keep the ball in play sometimes is the best thing.
Q. It's a fairly testing challenge, is it?
TIM PETROVIC: Yes.  Yes.  I'm tired.  I mean, we were trying to figure out what to hit off the tee yesterday on 18 and I hit my tee shot and I told my caddie, I said, "My brain hurts, and this is only one tee shot."
This course is fantastic.  There's so many options off the tee, and it makes you think, for sure.
Q. You might be a few shots behind Langer, but overall, it's been a good week for you?
TIM PETROVIC: Yeah, Darren and I were saying we were hoping it was going to get dark; he's a little older than us, maybe he wouldn't see the breaks on the greens.  But he said no, that's probably not going to happen.
Q. To finish in the top three, one of your best performances in a major?
TIM PETROVIC: Yeah, two weeks ago, we had our Players Championship and I fell a little short.  Finished second there.  I've been playing well.  I've been in good form the last few weeks.
Just tried to stay patient and tried to sneak up on him again.  My first round, I think I was 4-over, and I knew conditions were going to be tough.  I knew I could sneak up in the weather got bad on the weekend.
Q. Nice to play well in Tom Watson's final Senior Open?
TIM PETROVIC: It's nice.  I love coming here.  Growing up Seve was one of my favourite players and I know he won two Opens here.  I'm a little sad that I wasn't able to hoist a trophy, but it would have been more special for me winning here for sure because, you know, Seve loved this place so much.
Q. And did Tom Watson show you a lot how to play links golf?
TIM PETROVIC: No, he really hasn't shown me much.  He's too busy.  He's too busy.
But he did say in links golf, that when the weather gets bad, you've got to swing within yourself.  You hear it a hundred times.  It's easy to say, but hard to do when you get on the golf course.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT