PUERTO RICO OPEN
March 8, 2015
Tim Petrovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Just tell me a little bit about your round today.  
TIM PETROVIC:   Well, I could have started better.   I made a nice 15‑footer on 1 and then I hit it over the green and I chipped in.   I'm like, oh, okay.   And then I holed out a bunker shot or eagle on the next hole.   So I went birdie, birdie, eagle right out of the gate.   I'm like, I guess you can't start much better than that.   
So that got me going, and then I made a lot of pars and just played solid.   Drove it nicely off the tee.   Didn't do anything crazy.   I knew it was going to be very difficult today, and I just tried to get the ball in the green, give myself as many birdie putts as I can.  
   
 Q.   Is driving what would be your strength out here this week?  
TIM PETROVIC:   Yeah.   I made a little adjustment on Friday during the round.   I don't normally do that, but in the past I've had the ability to make an adjustment like during the round, and I birdied two of the last three holes to make the cut.   So I just kept plugging along.   I said I'm not missing this cut.   I gotta birdie.   I gotta make birdie, I gotta make birdie.   And I just kind of talked that‑‑ that was kind of my mantra every day, just one hole at a time, okay, see if you can birdie this hole.   Okay, go to the next hole, see if you can birdie this hole.   So I was just trying to stay focused one hole at a time.  
   
 Q.   Are you looking at the leaderboard right now?  
TIM PETROVIC:   No.   Actually, I didn't look at it.   I birdied 18 and I looked at it and I saw I was tied for first.   I thought I was one behind.   So you never know.  
I know the guys had a tough finish yesterday.   The guys dropped a few shots, but in these conditions you never know.   But 18 is a birdie hole today.   I'm not sure 7 will be good enough.   I'll be surprised if it's a playoff.  
   
 Q.   We saw a lot lower scores today.   Can you compare the days out here?  
TIM PETROVIC:   Well, we got a little bit of rain this morning, maybe just a little downpour, you know, about 9:00, and I think it just softened the greens up a little bit.   I noticed the greens were a little bit softer today.   I think if they were firmer you wouldn't see these lower scores today.  
   
 Q.   What do you like about playing here in Puerto Rico?  
TIM PETROVIC:   The warm weather.   It's cold everywhere else.   The people are really nice.   Everybody‑‑ I love the salsa music.   I discovered a great coffee shop over in old San Juan.   I went over there three times this week.   Great coffee, great weather, great people.   Trifecta.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT