RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 24, 2014
Tim Petrovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Welcome Tim Petrovic to the media center, Tim with a 64 in round 1, currently the co‑leader and matching your best opening score on the PGA TOUR, so maybe you could tell us a little bit about what went well for you out there today. 
TIM PETROVIC:   I really didn't set my expectations high because I got in late.   I got in yesterday and kind of walked the golf course, so today was kind of my practice round.   I walked the back nine yesterday, actually, so it wasn't that I played conservative, I just‑‑ I was just trying to hit fairways and greens just to kind of see the golf course, I guess, and hit some golf shots and see if I could make a few putts. 
I drove the ball pretty good today overall, which seems to be a premium out here.   I think if you can put the ball in the fairway, and they give you some room out here to hit it, but no, the golf course played nicely today. 
THE MODERATOR:   When you don't see a practice round and just kind of walk the course, does it almost lower your expectations and kind of free you up to play? 
TIM PETROVIC:   I think so.   I kind of think it freed me up because I wasn't sure‑‑ especially on the front nine, we started on 1 and I hadn't seen the front nine yet.   So you don't look ahead, obviously, and I wasn't really looking ahead on the back.   I was playing well, but I just‑‑ keep going through your routine, I was trying to stay in my routine:   Hit golf shots, hit driver and get it on the green.   I had been hitting it really well.   I saw glimmers of some good rounds coming the last few weeks but hadn't really had much to show for it.   It was kind of nice to get through and get a good round under my belt. 

Q.   Can you kind of walk us through when you heard and how you got to Montreal?
TIM PETROVIC:   Well, I was on vacation.   I was in South Haven, Michigan, with my family, and they're going to be up there for two weeks.   We go up there every other year.   I've been on the road now for five and a half, maybe six weeks, so I need a week off.   So it was kind of a Catch 22.   It was kind of a win‑win for me.   If I got in, great, I could come play here.   If I didn't, I'd get a week off with the family at the beach.   They called me, I think, Tuesday afternoon and I hopped on a plane Wednesday morning, so I got here just after lunchtime.
My kids were‑‑ my youngest one was actually pretty understanding.   She's like, go, dad, we went surfing already, you go, go play some golf, I'll see you this weekend. 

Q.   If I'm not mistaken you have a little Canadian Tour history, as well?   Did you play up here at all?
TIM PETROVIC:   The last time I was up here was probably in 1990 maybe.   We played the Canadian Tour, and I think Todd Hamilton was playing up here, Guy Boros.   In fact, we were in Halifax two weeks ago, and the last time I was up there was before they built the bridge to get out to PEI because I think we were playing a golf tournament at PEI.   I think it was called Brudenell?   Does that sound right?   Somebody told me that.   I couldn't remember the name of it.   But it's been 20 something years.   I can't believe it's been like 23 years. 

Q.   What goes through your mind when you're an alternate and you show up one day before, and here you are co‑leading a tournament? 
TIM PETROVIC:   Well, my first 10 years on TOUR I was always exempt so I never had to go through this, but this week was fine.   I wasn't really getting too excited.   I wasn't like praying I'd get in or anything because we were on vacation, so I was just kind of, whatever happens, happens I think.   So I think I came here with a more relaxed attitude.   Like we said, my expectations weren't too high.   But I have been playing well, and even the one day, even when I got there‑‑ we got there on Tuesday lunchtime, so I only had not even a full day off before I came‑‑ even the one day there recharged me, just one day helped me a lot. 

Q.   Could you take us through the eagle on the 12th? 
TIM PETROVIC:   Yeah, I hit a drive down the right side, and I kind of hung it out a little bit and left myself a little longer shot.   It was downwind.   But I hadn't played the hole yet, so I wasn't sure how far left I could go, so I just kind of hit it down there and had about 265 maybe to the front, 264, and just hit it absolutely perfect, and I think my caddie said, do what you're supposed to do or something.   He didn't say be good, he just said do what you're supposed to do, and it kind of hit in the hill and just killed it, rolled right up there about three feet.   And I made the putt, of course.   But those were probably the two best shots I hit all day. 

Q.   How tough is it to play sort of week in and week out when you don't know where you're going to be and you don't know when you're going to get in and sort of everything is up in the air?
TIM PETROVIC:   Yeah, it's a little tough.   It's a little tough.   I think I was spoiled for my first 10 years.   You make your own schedule, you know where you're going.   I think this year I pretty much split between the Web and the PGA TOUR.   It can be tough, and I know a few guys that pulled out of this tournament were closer to that 25 number.   I think Jason Gore, a couple other guys pulled out here, they could have played here but decided to stay and play just to make sure they stay in that 25 number.   So there are decisions to be made this time of year on both tours, not just this Tour.   The guys are trying to figure out‑‑ and with the new system, I think it's tough on some of the guys to figure out where they want to be because I think any time that‑‑ any time you pass up playing in a PGA TOUR event, I just don't‑‑ I'm not saying the system is‑‑ there's no perfect system, obviously, but when you have guys passing up an opportunity to play especially in the Canadian Open, Canadian Open has a big history.   This is a big golf tournament.   It's a little iffy.   But I understand the decision they're trying to make.   They're trying to position themselves to get that top 25.   It's a little tough that way. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT