HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 27, 2011
Tim Petrovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 TIM PETROVIC: Kept the ball down, tried to be patient, just tried to give myself a few opportunities because I felt like I was rolling the ball pretty good. It was tough out there, the wind was really -- it was gusty, I didn't think it was going to be that windy today but it was gusting. I would say 30 mile-an-hour gusts, but it was a challenge for sure. I drove the ball well today and gave myself some chances.   
 A lot of good quality iron shots to the middle of the greens.   
  
  Q. Patience seems like it's been a key in your career?  
 TIM PETROVIC: Everyone says patience, patience, but today you knew you were going to make bogeys, and I only made one on the short par 3 today trying -- yanked a tee shot, trying to hit it quick before the gusts come up again.   
 But that's what you've got to do, and it's not even about routine today. On the putting greens, it was about -- you have to stand there sometimes for maybe 30 seconds or 15 seconds longer and wait for the gust to go away so you can hit it without -- on the first hole today I kind of got blown over today and left it 3 feet short but I made the par saves I needed to make.  
  
  Q. In your career, you've grinded it so to speak --  
 TIM PETROVIC: Patience? It's my M.O.   
  
  Q. It's interesting --  
 TIM PETROVIC: Yeah, I think it took me 14 years to get out here. Most guys get out here when they're 20, 30, I don't think I got out here until I was 34.   
  
  Q. You seem to be in a groove, the money winnings, and --  
 TIM PETROVIC: I haven't been in a groove this year, started out slow but like out here, just takes one good week to get it going, get it going one good week and you're off and running for the year. If I can do that we'll have a good weekend, who knows?   
  
  Q. When was the last time you were in this good a shape going into Saturday?   
 TIM PETROVIC: Oh, I don't know. Not this year. (Chuckles.) I've had a few good rounds here and there but not this year. Last year I had a few good tournaments top-5, at Memorial, I think that's when I started to picking it up, in that tournament at Memorial.   
  
  Q. Been frustrating this year?   
 TIM PETROVIC: A little bit, a little bit. Just took a break from my golf coach and we're not working together anymore. I had to take a breather, just wasn't happening. So I had to reassess a little bit. But, yeah, it's been a test this year for sure.   
  
  Q. Do you have a new coach or in between?   
 TIM PETROVIC: No, not really. No.   
  
  Q. Live in Austin?   
 TIM PETROVIC: Uh-huh.   
  
  Q. You get up here much? You're at least used to hitting in the heat and the wind?  
 TIM PETROVIC: Yeah, it was hot, third and fourth hole, it was starting to get to me, my face started getting red, and my playing partner said to me "Your face is getting really red", he said it to me in Spanish but I knew what he was talking about, Andres Romero. I kept sticking my arms -- my caddy, used to caddy for me out here, Joey, he used to stick his arms in the bucket. It's an old Army trick, you stick your arms in the ice water --  
  
  Q. Wherever the blood is closest to the skin?  
 TIM PETROVIC: Yeah, so that helped a little bit. You get older it's tougher to play in that 96-degree heat.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 TIM PETROVIC: Yeah, it's fine.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 TIM PETROVIC: I played so many in a row at this point I don't know how many I played. I think I'm going to go one more week, play Jack's tournament, and then we have the Open qualifier the Monday after. So I will be a tired puppy.   
  
  Q. Thank you so much.   
 TIM PETROVIC: Thanks for coming down here.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT