CHILDREN'S MIRACLE NETWORK CLASSIC
November 12, 2010
Tim Petrovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. All right. I have Tim Petrovic here. Well, let's start with the thing everybody is most excited to hear about, and that is the hole-in-one. Take me through it.  
 TIM PETROVIC: Well, it was still really early. Eyes weren't quite all the way wide open, and the ball wasn't really flying. I had 208 and just took the 4-iron, just tried to make a good swing; and it took off, it just never left it. And I guess it got a good bounce on the fringe, and the guy said it just rolled right in like a putt. So that was a good way to get the day going, for sure.  
  
  Q. And have you had any hole-in-ones on TOUR before?  
 TIM PETROVIC: That's the first one out here. I've had 12 of them, but that's my first one on the TOUR. And it's been 10 years. I think my last one was in 2000.   
 But not complaining because I've had three double eagles out here since I've been out here. And a buddy of mine researched that. I think I'm the only guy out here with three double eagles.  
  
  Q. I'll confirm that stat for you and let you know tomorrow. So take me through a little bit, 5-under for the day. Take me through -- or for the tournament. So take me through your round a little bit today.  
 TIM PETROVIC: Yeah, still struggled off the tee a little bit, and hit one in the woods today and ended up making a 6, but straightened it out a little bit. But got the putter going. So that kind of erased a lot of mistakes. It was nice to see a few putts go in for sure.  
  
  Q. And tell me any differences that you noticed between the course you played yesterday and today.   
 TIM PETROVIC: You know, this one, the Palm's always -- the fairways are a little wetter. The Mag is definitely longer, for sure. So it's kind of a good balance.   
 The Mag played long yesterday. So I think they try to keep the fairways a little dry, hopefully, so we get a little roll. Otherwise they play really long.   
 But there's some birdie opportunities on the Palm, for sure. Most of the low scores will come from the Palm. So if you can get it going on the Mag one of the first two days, you're in a good position to have a chance to win.  
  
  Q. And people were commenting a little bit yesterday about the wet fairways on Palm. What were your experiences of the conditions of the course on the Palm today?  
 TIM PETROVIC: They were okay. We were up at 6:45, so they're going to be a little damp. We had a quote this week, Todd Hamilton and I were talking. He said -- our quote was "stop watering your golf course." Just leave it alone. It's perfect the way it is. Don't throw any water down on it. And I think they've done a pretty good job of it.  
  
  Q. Well, congratulations on your hole-in-one and best of luck on the weekend.  
 TIM PETROVIC: Thanks.   
  
(Correction: Tim Petrovic's last hole-in-one was at the 2004 Byron Nelson Classic. It was on the 4th hole from 160-plus yards, and he used a 7-iron.)  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT