THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY MORGAN STANLEY
June 4, 2010
Tim Petrovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   TIM PETROVIC: Beautiful day, walk in the park. No, seriously. I kept everything in front of me. Hit a lot of fairways, a lot of greens, and kind of chugged along. Started the front nine, made a couple putts, got me going. Made a couple saves.   
 I kind of did the same thing on the back. Got up and down on the back bunker on 12. That really got me going. I was just trying to keep it on the green and not hit it in the water. Kept it on the fringe and made the putt from off the fringe. So that kind of kept me going a little bit. Made a nice up and down on the next hole.   
  
  Q. Now you're in position going into Saturday.   
 TIM PETROVIC: I don't know what tees Rickie's playing out there. What is he, like, 14-under or something? Those kids, I'll tell you.   
 But, yeah, great position. Played good last week. Had a good qualifier. Got in the British. Just carrying that over to this week. Just doing the same thing, just not really changing anything.   
  
  Q. Golf course receptive?   
 TIM PETROVIC: Yeah, greens are super receptive. Fairways are a little too receptive. Mud has been an issue, where we've been inspecting our golf balls a little bit before we hit our approaches.   
 It's made it a little tough. Yesterday was a little tougher with the mud, but today it's not so bad.   
  
  Q. How do you figure a Fowler, who's never played here? How do you figure Fowler's success given he's never played here?   
 TIM PETROVIC: He's been playing good all year. It seems it doesn't matter where he plays every week. He's just putting up the numbers.   
 He's a great putter. I met him last year. I chatted with him a little bit. Nice kid. You know, root for him.   
  
  Q. How do you describe his fashion statement?   
 TIM PETROVIC: Yeah. I don't know. They wouldn't even let me in if I wore that. We tease him about maybe getting a haircut, you know, once or twice a year.   
 No, he's fine. I think he's good for the tour. He's got a little different look. He's got a little flash. Kind of got that little lanky walk, got that quick swing.   
 I think he's really good.   
  
  Q. How low can guys go here this weekend, do you think?   
 TIM PETROVIC: I don't know. It never shocks me. You know, someone always shoots 8-under the first day, and someone always brings it 7-under or something the second day.   
 You know, like the saying goes, these guys are good. That never shocks me when I see guys shooting 62 out here.   
  
  Q. What do you think when you know you've got a good round going. You think you're doing pretty well. And then you look at the board, and you see that. What did you think?   
 TIM PETROVIC: Well, Rickie, I checked and he was 11- under. I kind of peeked at it on 16. I made a long putt there, and I get in here, and they said, oh, he's got a putt to go 14. I thought, what is going on out here?   
 You throw the ball in close. The greens are receptive. You don't have to worry about bouncing it over. Makes the bunker shots a little bit easier. You know, I could see someone going pretty deep out here.   
  
  Q. What turns your game around, your scores around the last month or so?   
 TIM PETROVIC: You know, I've just been playing, they call it Petrogolf. I've been keeping everything in front of me, not overswinging.   
  
  Q. What were you doing earlier?   
 TIM PETROVIC: It was a good test for me last week. I played with Bubba last week. Didn't really overswing when I played with him, which was a good test for me.   
 Just keeping everything in front of me. Just playing Tim golf, get on the greens as fast as I can and get the putter in my hands so I can make some putts.   
  
  Q. With guys -- you mentioned to that radio guy over there, you don't know what you were doing when you were 22, but you weren't winning golf tournaments.   
 TIM PETROVIC: No. I was still thinking about am I going to turn pro? I think I went over to Australia and played and got my butt kicked around over there.   
 Fourteen years later, I get my card. I got a little bit of a late start, but better late than never, I guess.   
  
  Q. What do guys your age that are still out here have to do to keep up these guys?   
 TIM PETROVIC: Did you hear that? My age?   
  
  Q. I'm older than you, so I can ask that question.   
 TIM PETROVIC: Maybe you're not.   
  
  Q. No. I'm Senior Tour, definitely.   
 TIM PETROVIC: I know. I'm going to be 44 this year. Yeah, you didn't know that, did you?   
 You know, you hear a couple guys that are rubbing up against you, hey, how about that Senior Tour? Don't even talk to me about Senior Tour yet. You make me feel old.   
  
  Q. What do you do to keep pace with these guys? What's the advantage that you guys might have over guys half your age?   
 TIM PETROVIC: Well, you can go back to experience, and we've played these courses. This is my eighth year here maybe, eighth or ninth year. Experience definitely plays a hand in that.   
 First year -- your first year out here, your first year is the hardest year because you're playing all the courses for the first time. My rookie year, I really struggled. I think I finished second in Memphis. It kind of got me going.  
  
  Q. Have you done anything as you've gotten older? Have you done anything more in terms of fitness than you did earlier?   
 RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, I do more now than I used to for sure. Just trying to stay in shape, keep the abs there, keep the back. Keep the abs good, the back. Hopefully, the back won't go out.   
 I've always had a long, smooth swing, and I don't really take a really big cut at it. So in the long run, it's going to help save my back and might lengthen my career a little bit.   
  
  Q. One last thing. If it rains again this afternoon like they're talking about, do you think they should go to lift, clean, and place tomorrow? Or do you think they'll have to?   
 RICKIE FOWLER: Well, that's up to them. The forecast, I think, we're 50-50 for tomorrow also. They're already talking about maybe playing threesomes.   
 But I think Sunday is okay. Monday is good.   
  
  Q. Is the mud today worse than yesterday or not?   
 RICKIE FOWLER: No, it was a little better today. We were on the afternoon right after the rain. So it was kind of fresh. This morning it was a little dew. If the ball gets wet, it doesn't really fly that good. But I hit a couple balls that had some on it, but it wasn't as bad as yesterday.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT