U.S. BANK CHAMPIONSHIP IN MILWAUKEE
July 19, 2009
Tim Petrovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Can you walk us through? 
 TIM PETROVIC: I really had a good session last night on the range. I kind of lost my rhythm out there yesterday for a few holes, and started missing a few fairways. I've been hitting so good, and I had a good session last night. I really didn't miss a shot. Everything was pretty much right online. On 11 I hit a nice little flyer and one-hopped it to the pin, that kind of day. 
 Had a few other opportunities out there, but you're not going to make all your putts. But I don't know, did I make a bogey today? I don't think I did. But I kind of hit it the same the first round. It was a little tougher conditions the first round. IT was windier. Didn't make a bogey that round, either. 

 Q. Last week you were right there at the end, could have won it, and this week seemed like you swung pretty well again. 
 TIM PETROVIC: I said I hit that shot I was trying to hit on 18 today, I hit on 11 today. I could have used that one on Sunday. Last week I went for the win and didn't work out. It was a little disappointing, because I had not hit a shot like that pretty much all week. Wasn't so much the pressure. 
 But feels good. I kind of picked up where I left off. Just felt good over the ball. Drove it great, drove really good at parring those three or four holes yesterday. 

 Q. Probably not going to hold up obviously, but do you feel good about the effort today? 
 TIM PETROVIC: Leading into my week off, it's great. I'm not playing the Canadian Open next week. This is four in a row and I withdrew from that already. Finishing on a high note after last week, I feel a little bit better. 

 Q. Getting a new RV now?
 TIM PETROVIC: I needed five or six Top-10s this year to get the new bus, but I don't know.

 Q. How many have you had?
 TIM PETROVIC: Five or six. That's a good problem to have, you lose count. I haven't had that problem before. We are kind of ready for a new bus. We've been looking at a few. It's a big chunk of change. 

 Q. Looking to drive that bus back up next year again? 
 TIM PETROVIC: Yeah, you know what, I hope we have the tournament. I played in three British Opens the last eight years, I've played here I think two times out of five. I made an effort to come up here to play because I heard the course was awesome. It's a nice change to play a course that's not all on steroids where they are not stretching them out to 7,300, 7,400. It can make a course harder but doesn't make it better. Hopefully we'll have it next year. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT