ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 26, 2009
Tim Petrovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. A finish in the final round with a birdie on the 18th hole. But there was a stretch through the first 15 that you put it on the golf course like your Red Sox put it on the Yankees?
 TIM PETROVIC: They inspired me for greatness today. I hung it on the edge on 10, because the gust of wind got it. I thought all right, just keep rolling it - 12-footer, 15-footer, 15-footer, 15-footer, 18-footer. I'm like, oh, this is fun. 
 My caddie did a good job on 16. He made me lay-up instead of going up there, and I still had a good putt at it. 
 Hit a beautiful shot, little thin on 17 but right by the hole, over the back. Brown grass usually means quicker, but not in this case. Left it about 10 feet short coming five yards off the green. Tried to putt it. 
 And the birdie on on 18, it was nice. Just laid it up. Going for it didn't do me any good this week, so I decided to lay it up.

 Q. Tell me about this golf course because it played completely different today than we've seen the first three days because of the wind?
 TIM PETROVIC: It's up there. It's blowing about 20. It's crossing on a lot of holes more than it was the last few days. Lot of the downwind holes are crossing. 
 These greens are tough to read. Fortunately, I'm one of the guys that can read these greens, apparently. 
 But there's a lot of small breaks in them. The course is in fantastic shape. No overseeding this year. It played like it did in '05, so I was pretty comfortable out there.

 Q. These leaders played to the back nine. You played a great back nine. Is this back nine gettable or did you just have one of those days? 
 TIM PETROVIC: I put myself in position, gave myself some putts. I wouldn't say I was pin hunting, but I knew where the slopes were. I kind of fed it in there, gave myself some chances. I had to make the putts. 
 It's going to be tough for these guys to hole these putts because the wind is blowing.

 Q. You kind of have an affinity with this place. Why is that? 
 TIM PETROVIC: I don't know. Maybe it's because I won the first year here. I've played good every year here. Unfortunately, we had to leave after Katrina and go over to English Turn, which I don't care for very much. 
 But they say there's horses for courses, and this is my horse, this is my course. You know, it's just one of those things. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT