ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
March 29, 2008
Woody Austin
Tim Petrovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DOUG MILNE: Thank you all for coming in for a few minutes. Just a couple comments on what you did out there today.   
 TIM PETROVIC: I'm on 16 fairway, the 280-yard par-4. They kind of tricked us today. They put the tees way up. I still decided to hit a 5-iron off the tee, so I'm in the middle of the fairway about 100 yards away.   
 I got off to a good start, made some putts today, and looks like we're going to keep our same tee times tomorrow. There are some guys who are going to get a little bit of an advantage from it, but hopefully it won't be -- hopefully it won't be a situation where there's too much of an advantage.   
 DOUG MILNE: Woody, a couple comments on your round.   
 WOODY AUSTIN: I didn't get off to a great start but made a couple birdies to offset kind of a shaky start. Unfortunately for me, I had momentum on my side. I just birdied 9, 10 and 11, and now I've been stuck for the last four hours. I had a nice little run going, and unfortunately I haven't been able to finish.   
  
  Q. What are those four hours like for you? I know you're on fire, you knocked down some birdies. What's that waiting game like?   
 WOODY AUSTIN: Well, it's never fun to be in a rain delay. This is two weeks in a row for me. I was at Doral last week. It's just getting kind of crazy to constantly be yanked on and off the golf course back and forth.   
 I was in a good rhythm obviously. I was starting to swing at it good. I was doing the right things, and now even if we did go back out there after four hours, you'd have four hours' difference. Now I've got to find the rhythm again, get everything going again, so it's kind of a bad timing thing.   
 TIM PETROVIC: Plus there was absolutely nothing on TV this afternoon (laughter). The games don't start until -- well, right about now. We were watching replays of this and that.   
  
  Q. Woody, how hard were you trying to keep the rain away?   
 WOODY AUSTIN: I was not happy. I mean, like I said, I was finally playing well, I was finally scoring. The whole problem has been scoring, and I haven't been able to score. The days I hit it good, I don't make anything.   
 Today I got off to an ugly start and I made a bomb on No. 3 to just kind of kick-start it. Then I almost made a hole-in-one on 9. Next thing you know I got my momentum going and now I'm stuck again. I was frustrated that I'm starting to score on the day I needed to, and now I'm told I can't finish.   
  
  Q. What did you hit at 9?  
 WOODY AUSTIN: I hit 7.  
  
  Q. Would you rather play tomorrow than just continue on today?   
 WOODY AUSTIN: It's so hard to do. Now tomorrow I'm going to have to hit it at 7:20 in the morning, and my first shot is a 212-yard shot out of the 12th fairway at 7:20 in the morning. That's not really conducive to the first swing of the day at 7:20 in the morning.  
  
  Q. Tim, you said that you think that there's some guys that are going to get an advantage. Obviously a guy like Briny Baird trying to win his first tournament, can you maybe address what a guy like that who has to play 33 holes tomorrow has --  
 TIM PETROVIC: When I won here in '05 we had to come out and finish. Actually I was playing with Woody. We had to come out and finish on Sunday morning, and I think when I woke up on that morning I was six shots behind. I think I was about six shots behind.   
 You know, he's just going to have to -- basically just got to take it for what it is. He still has a job to do. He still has to play the holes. We try to block out what the other guys are doing, but with the situation, you can't -- you're out there trying to win a golf tournament.   
 Obviously this is a situation where guys are going to get an advantage, but you've got to put that behind you and just go play golf. The guys that can do that are going to be able to focus.  
  
  Q. Have you ever been caught in a situation like that?   
 WOODY AUSTIN: There's many different scenarios. I think everybody has been caught in a tough situation. This is going to be the first one of these I've ever come across. It's not a good situation.   
 I know the staff is doing exactly what they're supposed to do by the regs and whatever, but Briny is not even going to -- let's see, 7:22, Briny is going to barely be through 10 holes or 11 holes, and a guy like Johnson who shot 66 today is going to be off on his fourth round already starting and Briny is only maybe through 10 holes of his first round. Really weird situation. Like I said, it's kind of hard to comprehend.   
  
  Q. What is it about, is it about being mentally prepared when you go out there in the morning?   
 WOODY AUSTIN: You have to be mentally prepared. Again, it's tough to keep telling yourself to start, stop, start, stop, and now you're telling yourself that we've got to go -- obviously not as many as Briny, but I've got 26 holes I've got to play tomorrow, 25 holes. It's never an easy thing. You just do the best you can with what you've got, I guess.   
  
  Q. Talk about you said there was nothing on TV to watch. I don't know if you guys flipped on The Golf Channel during the intermission, but were you surprised to see Tiger Woods playing golf on TV this afternoon?   
 TIM PETROVIC: We asked about that.  
  
  Q. I don't know if that's ever been done before.   
 TIM PETROVIC: We asked them why they were showing that instead of the Zurich tournament. I think it had something to do with not so much that the other tournaments were CBS tournaments and this was an NBC tournament; they just decided that if they put Tiger on, people are going to keep watching it.  
  
  Q. Even though it's not a good situation --  
 WOODY AUSTIN: I was leading the golf tournament at the Buick a couple years ago and people didn't know I was in the tournament because they showed his morning replay. My family said, "What happened?" I said, "I'm winning." They said, "No, you're not even on TV." They didn't believe me. I said, "I'm winning by two." "No, you're not."   
  
  Q. Even though it's not a good situation, is this a good omen for you because of '05?  
 TIM PETROVIC: There are a few similarities. I'm sitting next to Woody and we're in a rain delay and it is Saturday, and my brother is here caddying. I'm almost on the same hole, 16 instead of 15.  
 WOODY AUSTIN: And you only had 14 putts through 14 holes like you did that year, too?   
 TIM PETROVIC: Pretty much today.  
  
  Q. What's your brother's name?  
 TIM PETROVIC: Stephen. It was funny in '05, we came out on 15, I hit my second shot up there on the front fringe, I had a 30-foot putt that broke about seven different directions, and I hit this putt, and it's not even halfway to the hole, and Woody starts walking to the next hole; boom, right in the hole.  
  
  Q. Being the certified Aquaman of the TOUR, given the conditions, do you feel like you have a big advantage tomorrow?   
 WOODY AUSTIN: I don't have any advantage. I'm telling you, like I said, I think the one guy who has the advantage shot 66 today. There's a guy with the advantage right now, as of right now.   
  
  Q. Woody, why is it they were showing Tiger's morning replay while you were playing that year?   
 WOODY AUSTIN: Because they showed the tape delay -- they showed his whole morning round instead of the regular telecast in the afternoon being shown. They showed his morning round, and I shot 63 that day, but nobody saw it, so every time -- when you watch that replay, your ticker tape has who's in the tournament or whatever. Well, my name never came up, so my family thought I had gotten hurt and withdrew from the tournament.   
 TIM PETROVIC: He made up for it in Memphis last year. We saw every shot he hit there. What did you have, about 22 putts that day?   
 WOODY AUSTIN: Not quite.  
 TIM PETROVIC: He was hitting it about five feet that day.  
 WOODY AUSTIN: I played good there.   
 DOUG MILNE: Guys, thank you for coming in. We really appreciate it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT