U.S. SENIOR OPEN
June 30, 2018
Tim Petrovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: I'd like to welcome Tim Petrovic to the media center.  2-under par for the championship.  Tied for third.  71 today.  The bogeys at the end, not the way you wanted to finish when you held the lead at a certain point in the round.  So a little assessment on your play.
TIM PETROVIC: That's okay.  I got myself out of position.  And when you're playing in a major, and when you have the course setup like it is, pars are gold, but sometimes a bogey can be as good as a par.  It sounds silly, but just got to take your medicine and live to fight another day.
THE MODERATOR: Given your background and with fighting through everything you've had, this is probably something that's let's go on and see what we got tomorrow, right?
TIM PETROVIC: I think my caddie felt worse than I did on 18.  But I told him, hey, we took the club and it didn't carry the bunker.  And it is what it is.  And we didn't want it to go down the rabbit hole down there, down the bottom of the bunker, but that's what happened.  But we made our bogey.  And we'll move on.  And it's going to be fun tomorrow.  It's going to be a little dogfight.  We got four, five, six, somebody gets hot that's five back, they could win it.
THE MODERATOR: Questions.
Q. How much scoreboard watching do you do when you're on the course?
TIM PETROVIC: Not much today.  Not necessary.  We knew birdies were hard to make, and we pretty much knew where everybody stood.  There wasn't a lot of jumping around.  We saw a couple -- I looked at it more before I played than I did when I was on the golf course, just to see what kind of numbers were out there.  I think I saw Bernhard played pretty good this morning.  And so we knew there was some good scores out there, just had to drive the ball well.
Q. How will that be different tomorrow when it is a final round?
TIM PETROVIC: Well, I'm sure -- well, tomorrow coming down the stretch, the last four holes, I'm sure all the guys, we're going to want to know where we stand, for sure.  If you do get in the position where you get into a trouble position, you need to know that maybe bogey's not a bad score and you can live to fight to the next hole and -- but we'll all be watching, for sure.
Q. What did you say to the kid on 17 who picked up the ball?
TIM PETROVIC: I didn't know what happened, so until I just found out that he actually slid like he was sliding into second base, trying to fight his brother for the golf ball and actually picked it up.  And then when I got to the ball it looked like he was about to lose it, he was really upset.  I just made a comment I said, hey, next time you do that why don't you just kick it back towards the fairway instead.  And he thought that was pretty funny, so that kind of put the fire out.
Q. Not to make too much of it, but when you see like kind of a moment like that, I don't know, you were so into it, but can you at least kind of step away for a second and just appreciate it?
TIM PETROVIC: Yeah, we did, we were focusing on our round, for sure.  But, yeah, I kind of stepped out of the box there and just wanted to make him feel -- I didn't want to make him feel like it was okay to do that, I just wanted to make him feel like it's not the end of the world, it's only a major, no big deal, so.
(Laughter.)
It's kind of what I said to my caddie on the last hole.  It's only a major, no big deal, it's just another bogey, don't worry about it, we can get them tomorrow.  But it was kind of fun, afterward I was like -- I wasn't glad I made bogey -- I said, I'm kind of glad I hit it over there, I got to interact with the kids a little bit.
Q. There are a lot of golfers out there that tend to sleep on the way their round ended, are you a person that can put that troubling finish behind you pretty quick and start fresh in the morning?
TIM PETROVIC: Yeah, I'm fine with it.  Like I said, my caddie was more upset about it.  We fought and made a bogey and just took our medicine.  We had chances, we had some wedges in to try to get up-and-down on 17 and 18, but where they put these pins, I mean they make it really hard.  There's no easy wedge shot.  And getting it close, you got to hit a really high quality shot and have a good yardage to get it close.  But no, I'm fine with it.  I let it go as soon as it happened.  I'll sleep fine tonight.  Looking forward to tomorrow.
JERRY KELLY: Can you sing the University of Hartford fight song, please.
TIM PETROVIC: Well since the University of Hartford does not have a football team we do not -- I don't think we have a fight song.  Do you know the fight song?  Did you go to Hartford by the way?
(Laughter.)
Did you go there?
JERRY KELLY: I went to the school, I just didn't go to class.
TIM PETROVIC: Well, just since Jerry's in the room, we --
JERRY KELLY: Don't be telling stories now.
TIM PETROVIC: They asked me yesterday.  I was good.  We, Jerry, great golfer, and we got him recruited and we, I think he wanted to play hockey.  We kind of lied to him and told him we had a hockey team and then that turned into a hockey club and that turned into, well, you know what, we don't have any hockey at all, do you want to just play golf?  All right, I'll try to play golf.
JERRY KELLY: That is exactly the way it went.
TIM PETROVIC: Something like that.
JERRY KELLY: My parents were in on it.
TIM PETROVIC: Something like that.  And with the two of us being in contention, our coach passed away 20 some years ago and I'm sure he's looking down, Gordon is looking down saying, I hope it's Petro and Kelly in a playoff tomorrow for sure.
THE MODERATOR: Thanks, Tim.
TIM PETROVIC: You got it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT