THE INTERNATIONAL
August 5, 2005
Tim Petrovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  We welcome Tim Petrovic to the media center.  Talk a little about your day.
TIM PETROVIC:  I didn't play the par 5s as well as I wanted to.  I did my fair share on the rest of the golfcourse.  I played the par 3s well.  I just couldn't get a birdie or eagle on the par 5s.  Go figure, I birdie 8 from the trees, pitching it from underneath the tree.  That's golf for you.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Questions, please.
Q.  Could you go through your round.
TIM PETROVIC:  I started on the Back 9.  I made a bogey on 11.  Actually hit it over the green on like my    three of my first four holes.  Had an easy chip on 11.  Kind of chunked it.  That was kind of a, "Good morning, Tim, we're playing golf now."  I had an easy shot.  Two holes later, I had about the exact same shot and I chipped it in.  It was a nice recovery.

I didn't get the birdie.  I actually hit a nice putt on 14, didn't get the birdie, but made
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  What about the birdie on 13?
TIM PETROVIC:  That was a chip in.
Q.  How long?
TIM PETROVIC:  I don't know.  Like 20 feet.  Biggest break of the day probably came on 15.  I made three you wouldn't believe.  If you saw my tee shot, no way I made three there.  Hit it left.  Probably would have gone out of bounds but it caught a tree on the left and dropped straight down.  Had like 185 yards left over the corner of the tree.  The pin was in the front.  Took an 8 iron out, hit it over the corner of the tree to about 12 feet.  Probably the best shot I hit all day.  I basically stole like three or four points there.  That was a big turnaround.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  16?
TIM PETROVIC:  16, probably my best tee shot of the day.  Just took a 5 iron and hit it straight at the pin.  Probably my best swing all day.  Made the putt.

17 was a little disappointing.  I drove it up there to the right.  A little wind came into me.  I just caught a little heavy    caught my forehand a little heavy.  Got it high, dumped it in the bunker.  Missed about a 5 , 6 footer.  Made a couple long ones, so it kind of evened out.

Front 9 was pretty much the same thing.  Didn't birdie the first hole, the par 5, but hit a few nice iron shots on 2.  Then 4, I birdied another par 3.  That was probably the biggest difference in the round, making the birdies on probably the two hardest par 3s out here.
Q.  Flying over the greens on the first couple holes, is it the altitude?
TIM PETROVIC:  I just had a real big cup of coffee before I teed off (laughter).  I just launched it.  200 yards, flicking a 7 iron.  I know how the ball goes here.  For whatever reason, it wasn't going to be short.  All three of those shots, they just got up there and just kept going.  Wind, no wind, didn't matter.  I don't know if it was the coffee.  Could have been the coffee.
Q.  Like a Ramirez home run?
TIM PETROVIC:  Yeah.  Actually, I forgot to do my Manny.  I got to save that for the weekend.  I should have done it on 15.  I did a Manny on that.  I totally messed up the hole completely, somehow walked out of it smelling like roses.  Like Manny under a fly ball.
Q.  Talk to us about the Red Sox, how you assess their season.
TIM PETROVIC:  They're in great shape, considering all the injuries they've had early on.  We got guys coming back.  Like I said, I like their chances.  At least don't have to listen to those Yankee fans saying, "Maybe next year."  I keep saying it to them.  Maybe 80 years from now, they'll say, "The Yankees haven't won in 85 years.  What is going on?"  Curse of the A Rod.

We could talk about this for an hour.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Let's get on with golf.
Q.  How many Red Sox fans are there in the locker room?
TIM PETROVIC:  A lot of Red Sox fans.  Say some hats out there.  Saw one Yankee hat.  Just kind of walked past him, gave him a little look.

Okay, back to golf.
Q.  How did you become a Red Sox fan?  Wild career yourself, underdog.  Is that all part of it?
TIM PETROVIC:  I was born in Massachusetts, so there you go.  That about got me going right there.  I grew up in Connecticut.  Connecticut is kind of divided between Yankees and Red Sox.  Thank God I wasn't with the Evil Empire.  I was with the good side.

I think I could start for them tonight and maybe get a win.  All I have to do is hold them to 10 runs or under.  They're scoring about 10 a game right now, so.
Q.  What is your game plan for the rest of the week?
TIM PETROVIC:  Well, here it's always to play the par 5s good.  For some reason, I ended up five points short last year, I think.  That was the difference in me winning the tournament and losing it.  I think that's the big difference.  I'm trying not to focus on that one thing.  I kind of let it go after making a few pars and actually brought it back on some of the other holes.

There's 18 holes out here.  I don't want to dwell on those four holes.
Q.  Are you going to try to attack the par 5s differently tomorrow?
TIM PETROVIC:  I wouldn't play them any different.  I'd like to hit the ball on the green on 17.  It looks easy on TV to hit it, but it seems the wind swirls.  Depending on where they put the pin, you don't want to go long because then you can't get up and down.  I missed it in the right spot today.  I just missed my 5  or 6 footer.  I actually for once missed it in the right spot on that hole.

The greens are soft.  I think that's the only hole we can really hit an iron on, it's really wet.  The other ones are playing really long.  I think a couple guys knocked it on 14 today, kind of rolled it up there.
Q.  I take it you'll play 15 a little differently tomorrow?
TIM PETROVIC:  Yeah, I don't know what happened there.  Well, my goal was not to hit it right side.  Mission accomplished.  I dead poled it off the tee.  Said to my brother, "Well, didn't hit it right."  That was a great break.  If I end up winning the tournament, I'm going to look at that break right there.  I could have made six there.  I probably would have made six.  I made three.  That's a five point turnaround right there.  That's huge.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Your brother caddying for you this week?
TIM PETROVIC:  Yes.  It would be the last tournament.  He just can't make the altitude.  He's 66 years old.
Q.  The last time your brother caddied for you?
TIM PETROVIC:  Well, first time this year we won.  He caddied at Westchester.  We missed the cut there.  I let it go, said it's okay, it happens.
Q.  What is your brother's name?
TIM PETROVIC:  Steven.
Q.  Your regular caddie is?
TIM PETROVIC:  Jelly.  Richard Jelly Hansbury (phonetic).  I think he's got tenure out here, too, 1970.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Everybody good?  Thank you.
TIM PETROVIC:  No Yankee questions?  Okay, that's good (laughter).


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT