THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT
June 1, 1997
Ben Nelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BEN NELSON:  The obvious thing as you already know, one, we got a real downpour about four-tenths of an inch within a ten minute period of time, took a lot of water in real quick.  The greens became, first unplayable, bunkers have all gone back to where they were this morning, in very unplayable condition, and we couldn't -- just didn't have the time today to get things back in a playable situation for the golf course, plus there's more -- I just heard a thunderstorm out there.  We knew more weather was coming.  That kind of made the decision of no more play today pretty easy.  Then we met with Mr. Wisler and his group, and due to the forecast tomorrow, which is, one forecaster has us at 70 percent of rain, showers, thunderstorms, and the official forecast of the PGA TOUR has us up to 80 percent.  It's another day tomorrow like today and we felt like that we were in absolutely no position to push 72 holes any further, that we are now kind of trying to get in 54 holes.  We've got approximately two hours of golf left, start ago the 9 o'clock, hopefully in the morning, to complete 54 holes. 


Q.  Basic question, I want to be sure, if something happened and wiped tomorrow's possibility off, you would go back to 36?

BEN NELSON:  If we don't complete 54 holes tomorrow. The only situation, if we get half the field in, in the house tomorrow, on tomorrow's round, we're obligated to complete that round.  If we got out in the morning let's say and it was a complete washout all day, thunderstorms, whatever, then we would be a 36-hole event.  But if we get 50 percent of the field signs their score card, then you're obligated to go and complete the third round, in whatever day it takes, unless -- I won't say that, the Commissioner gets involved.


Q.  Tomorrow's round begins at 9 a.m.?

BEN NELSON:  Right, 9 a.m.


Q.  What does the radar tell you as far as how much window of opportunity you're going to have at 9:00?

BEN NELSON:  That's too far out to get anything on radar.  Our weather people tell us our best chances are early before it heats up and then the thunderstorms come.  That's why we're trying to get out there, 9 o'clock would seem to be the best time, between the course superintendent and giving him ample time to get his golf course ready, everybody else, you know, that just was kind of the fit time.  That's how 9 o'clock was derived rather than 10 o'clock or 8 o'clock. 


Q.  Eight-tenths of an inch yesterday before we left, the four-tenths most recently.  What about that time in between, like overnight and early this morning?

BEN NELSON:  I'd heard we'd had, since Saturday morning, I'd heard that we had almost three inches of rain. That was earlier than today.  So I imagine we're probably pushing three and a half inches since Saturday.


Q.  Since yesterday at this time can either of you talk about conversations, communications that you've had with the USGA people regarding the sectional?

BEN NELSON:  Tom Meeks, the USGA official in charge here is in this locker room now conversing with players that are in his event tomorrow and making other arrangements.  USGA has been extremely cooperative, supportive and I can't say enough for those people.  I hope their qualifying on Tuesday goes without a hitch.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT