ING NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
November 3, 2011
Mary Keitany
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. So after such a great season of personal bests and the half marathon world record, just wondering what had you in mind for New York? 
 MARY KEITANY: Okay, for me I'm happy to come to New York for the second time so I think now I'm really more prepared than last year.

 Q. How has your training been going lately? 
 MARY KEITANY: In my training since May, I think I trained well.

 Q. What do you remember about your first win last year? When you think about this race, what do you remember? 
 MARY KEITANY: So what I remember for last year was that it was my first marathon, and I knew about the half marathon that time. 
 When I tried to run my first marathon, I think the last mile I was pretty tired. I think I will do the same this year as last year.

 Q. How do you feel being considered the favorite going into the race? 
 MARY KEITANY: I'm sorry? I don't understand the question.

 Q. How does it feel to be the favorite, being ranked the best going into the race and most likely to win it. How does that make you feel? 
 MARY KEITANY: Of course, I know I'll be stronger so I'll try to run at least together.

 Q. Has your training changed compared to last year to this year? Have you done more mileage, more speeds work? 
 MARY KEITANY: Yes, of course, because last year I think I was not 14 kilometer, but now I've been running 44 kilometer also which ran this year in London. I understand my time, and I'm a marathoner.

 Q. How many miles or kilometers were you running last year in preparation for this? Is it more, less, how has it changed? 
 MARY KEITANY: For me last year I was training, but I was not hitting -- I was training for 5 kilometer. But after that, when I go back to New York to run the marathon, I go for that. I go from 44, 48, so I can have that.

 Q. Have you already qualified for the Kenyan team for the Olympics for next year? Or do you think you need to win this one in order to make sure you're qualified? 
 MARY KEITANY: I think I'm already on the team because of my time in London. So I think I'm already on the team. Of course, I want to run this one so when I go back again to my manager and my coach and see what's next.

 Q. It's been many years since anyone challenged Paula Radcliff's records, the 2:15 or the 2:17. Do you think you're the kind of runner that can challenge those records eventually? 
 MARY KEITANY: Maybe because now they have the world record to be 2:17, so I think in coming just we will attempt to run to beat Paula Radcliff.

 Q. What do you think about the rule change that does not allow records in races where the men are pacing? What do you think of that rule change? 
 MARY KEITANY: You say the men's pacing the ladies? 

 Q. Yes, they changed the rule in August. 
 MARY KEITANY: Yeah, because now they changed if they say ladies first to ladies to run together will be maybe a bit not strong like the one for men's but of course if you are strong enough, can you go.

 Q. If you are strong enough, can you go? 
 MARY KEITANY: I mean, when you have a pace, like an assistant at the halfway, and then you're at the halfway, if you are strong enough to control your pace and go and move.

 Q. What about the organizers? I mean, there are some races like London or New York where the women's field stars ahead of the men's field, and other races like Berlin, for example, you know the women and the men, they start at the same time. So you think it will be better that always the women's start first or it's a women's-only race or do you prefer to run with men? 
 MARY KEITANY: I think it's wonderful for ladies' versus men's it's quite okay. Because when you left with the ladies' and maybe you get a man with the pace and his pace is the same, it will push you a little bit. So I think it's good.

 Q. Do you like the running with the men better? 
 MARY KEITANY: Yeah, because even when I was standing in the middle, I was paced by the men, so the ladies were behind to me, it was 1:24 but for me it was 1:19:53, so I think it was better because I was with the men.

 Q. Congratulations again on your world record. Did you expect it? I know training was excellent going into that world record, and do you think can you go faster in the half marathon distance? 
 MARY KEITANY: Maybe if I will be a flat course like the one for last year, maybe it's possible. 








END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT