TCS NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
October 29, 2015
Mary Keitany
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Mary, you're back in New York as the defending champ, what's different coming into the race this year for you? 
    MARY KEITANY: I'm happy to be at the New York City Marathon. So when I say that I'm happy, I am happy for this opportunity. Mentally, it's been going well. I hope to do well on Sunday.

Q. What brings you back to New York each year? What do you like about New York? 
    MARY KEITANY: I want to say that I love the New York City Marathon. I love New York. It's a beautiful city. And also I like the people of New York. Also, I like the fans because last year I remember very well when I come to Central Park I was listening, and they were saying go Mary, go Mary. I love the City of New York. It's a wonderful city, and it's a big city also. So I enjoy it. I love the marathon so much.

Q. Mary, I was in London this year, and we all thought you were going to win and run really fast, and it didn't go quite right. Are things better now? What went wrong there, and are they better for here? 
    MARY KEITANY: I want to say that in London it was not good because I had Malaria. Anyway, I still went to London, but for sure I never experienced this in the preparation of New York. So I think I'm well prepared for the New York City Marathon. I've had no problems. Everything has been going well, and I hope to do well this Sunday.

Q. Mary, how do you compare your shape this year to last year? 
    MARY KEITANY: I think I'm better than last year. 

Q. Do you know by how much? You think you're a minute better?
    MARY KEITANY: (Laughter). 

Q. What do you expect to do about tactics? Because one year here you went out very fast. You remember when you had the lead. Will you run it more carefully now or try to run a fast time? 
    MARY KEITANY: I think I have to run very careful because last year I run fast at the end, and I was not able to finish fast because. I think it's not possible to run fast throughout.

Q. Who are you training with at the moment in Kenya? 
    MARY KEITANY: I have a couple of ladies. We are training together in Kenya. One of them was second in Amsterdam. One was in Venice. And some of them will be next week in the races. So some will be here Sunday, and the rest will be competing next week.

Q. How difficult was it to reach your best form after having a baby? 
    MARY KEITANY: It was tough, but as time goes on I got back with my training. But it was really tough at the beginning.

Q. Do you bring your children with you? Are the children with you in New York, or are they home in Kenya? 
    MARY KEITANY: They're in Kenya. I just come alone. 

Q. Do you talk to them on the phone? 
    MARY KEITANY: Yes, I communicate with them. 

Q. Do they run as well? 
    MARY KEITANY: No, they're still young. I don't know if they will run.

Q. Do they understand what you do, or how good you are? 
    MARY KEITANY: Yeah, they understand.

Q. Will they be watching you on TV on Sunday? 
    MARY KEITANY: Yeah, they will be watching. 

Q. Do you feel a bit stronger? A lot of people who have a baby come back and say they're stronger and able to handle more miles. Do you feel that having a baby has made you stronger as an athlete? 
    MARY KEITANY: Being a mother is also good. So sometimes when you're running you remember them. So at least I'm not running for myself, I'm also running for my family. So it's good to be‑‑ to have a family and have children and also to be an athlete. So for me, it's really good.

Q. Would you like to have more after maybe Rio? 
    MARY KEITANY: I have no idea now. 

Q. Are you very motivated by the disappointment in London to make up for it next year at the Olympics? Is that on your mind a lot? 
    MARY KEITANY: Maybe next year, if I will be selected to represent my country. I would love to be in Rio and to get a medal, it would be okay for me. 

Q. Do you live in Iten? 
    MARY KEITANY: Yes, I live in Iten. 

Q. Do you see Wilson Kipsang? 
    MARY KEITANY: Yeah.

Q. So you see him? You see him around? Do you run with him? 
    MARY KEITANY: No, I run with the ladies. But it is not far from my home. 

Q. You're a very good half marathoner as well. The world half marathon championships are in March next year. Would you like to do those? 
    MARY KEITANY: For me, to finish New York first and then I will go home. My manager is with me, so we will communicate, and we will see what will be next.

Q. So you have no plan at the moment for 2016? 
    MARY KEITANY: No, nothing at the moment. Just to get through New York first. 

Q. Do you think it would be a fast pace from the start on Sunday? Or would you think it would be slower and then move? 
    MARY KEITANY: I don't know because sometimes the people in New York changes. I don't know what the pace will be.

Q. Do you think Sally Kipyego will have a good marathon? It's her first marathon on Sunday. 
    MARY KEITANY: I think she will do well on Sunday.

Q. How different is it trying to succeed at the marathon versus the half marathon, in terms of training and adjustment? 
    MARY KEITANY: The half marathon is 21 and the marathon is 42. So the training would be different than for the half marathon. You have to do a lot of long runs in order to finish the 42 kilometer versus the half marathon. 

Q. Do you do long runs over the full marathon distance? Do you run 26 miles in training or more? Very often? 
    MARY KEITANY: I don't run 42 kilometers when I'm in training, but I go for a long run. So sometimes I go 30, sometimes I can go longer. But not going 42 kilometers in my training.

Q. Mary, what does it mean to be back in New York City? How special is it to be back in New York City? 
    MARY KEITANY: I think it's special to me to come back to New York. New York City is amazing to me. It's a wonderful city. So I like the fans here, especially when I come through Central Park.

Q. This field is very competitive, a lot of really big names. How do you think it's going to shake out with this strong of a pack? Or what's your race strategy? What will your tactics be? 
    MARY KEITANY: I have no idea. 

Q. Mary, the first great Kenyan woman here was Tegla, who is here to be into the hall of fame. Do you know her? Was she an inspiration to you when you were younger? 
    MARY KEITANY: Yeah, I know her from the beginning when I was in school. She was very famous to me. I would say maybe one day I'll be just like her. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT