TCS NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
November 2, 2014
Mary Keitany
Sara Moreira
Jemima Sumgong
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   We'd like to introduce Mary Keitany, Jemima Sumgong, Sara Moreira.   
Mary, we were watching, it became a two‑person duel between you and Jemima.   Tell us just a little bit about how your race was today.   
MARY KEITANY:   First of all, I worked hard for this opportunity.   Also, I want to thank the Road Runners of New York for inviting me to this event.   I'm happy because I have a victory today, because I know I've been coming to New York two times, and I was in that position.   So I'm happy today because it was a good day and I win.   So I'm happy, and I thank God for that.   Thank you so much.   
THE MODERATOR:   Jemima, it was a duel in the last part of it after the pack separated itself.   You were a close runner‑up today.   Tell us about what your thoughts were in the closing miles.   
JEMIMA SUMGONG:   In the closing miles, my target was to win, but it was Mary's day.   That was my target when we were pushing with Mary.   That was my target.   It was my target to win.   But at the end, Mary won.   
THE MODERATOR:   Understood.   Sara, you went out, you had a great half marathon PB coming into the race.   This was not only your TCS New York City Marathon debut, it was your marathon debut, but you went out despite the conditions and really made the race.   Talk a little bit about your thoughts being in front for such a long period.   
SARA MOREIRA:   I am very happy for being on the podium in New York City.   This is fantastic to me, and I'm very happy to get back to my personal best and the mark I have reached.  
   
 Q.   This is a question for Sara:   It's your debut marathon, but you led for much of the race.   Was that part of your plan?   How did you have the courage to lead in your first race?   
SARA MOREIRA:   I trained a lot for the last two months since November last year.   I have been training before the last two months, specifically a trained a lot.   Most importantly, the course, I had heard it was difficult, and I knew it was difficult, full of hills and bends.   
I am very happy that I reached this position today.  
   
 Q.   Congratulations to each of the three winners.   Mary, when you were coming towards the end and you were coming behind Jemima, did you think that you could overtake her, or were you just trying to finish the race?   
MARY KEITANY:   For me towards the end, after 40K, I knew Jemima was there, and I thought to close the gap with Jemima, and I would see if I would go or she would go.   
When I was a few kilometers away, I just closed the gap, and I see, if I go, I might win the race.   So I just tried my best and go ahead of Jemima, and it was God's will to end like that.  
   
 Q.   Was your strategy always to go and make a hard move at 20 miles when you did?   
MARY KEITANY:   Sorry.   Come again?  
   
 Q.   You started pushing at 20 miles is really where you and Jemima started to separate.   Was that always your strategy to move at 20 miles?   
MARY KEITANY:   Yeah, because I knew 20 miles we still have only five miles to go.   So I say let me push in and dig in in order to be in good position.   
   
 Q.   Jemima, a question for you:   You've been doing marathons all over the world.   How is the New York Marathon different from all other marathons?   
JEMIMA SUMGONG:   New York Marathon is different than other marathons I have attended, like for example, Chicago.   If I compare maybe to Boston, big marathons, it's a different one.   This one, like today it was windy, very windy.   I've never gone to a race which is very windy like today here.   I have never.   
Compared to other courses, it's a different one than the other marathons which I have attended.   New York, in general, it was beautiful.   It was good.   I enjoyed it.  
   
 Q.   Sara, what gave you the courage to lead the race for so long in your first marathon?   
SARA MOREIRA:   I was very well prepared, and I believe in that.   And yesterday was my son's birthday.   He turned 1.   And I thought firmly to dedicate this win to him.  
   
 Q.   What's his name?   
SARA MOREIRA:   William.  
   
 Q.   When you opened up the gap on Mary, there was about five meters, a couple of miles to go.   Did you think you could win?   Did you think you could win at that point?   You opened up a gap on Mary.   Did you think you had the race won at that point, or did you think she was going to come back on you?   
JEMIMA SUMGONG:   I thought when I opened the gap, I thought Mary would maybe ease up and I go.   When I opened the gap, I was trying to leave Mary and to go win the race, but for sure Mary had a tactics of closing the gap.  
   
 Q.   As you're running the race, what goes through your mind as you're going from mile to mile from the beginning to the end?   Are you thinking strategy?   Are you just trying to make it?   Are you looking at the sights?   Are you concentrating on your opponents?   What are you thinking about?   
JEMIMA SUMGONG:   During the first mile or at mile 26, what comes in my mind is to play some tactics in the race.   Everyone I know plays some tactics in the race.   You don't run without calculating, maybe during the 10 mile or 16 mile or 20 mile, there must be some tactics for how your body respond or how your body is going.   Everybody has a plan during the race.   
SARA MOREIRA:   To me, it's the first time that I've ran a marathon with so many kilometers.   It was a lot, and while I was running, many things came to my mind, but I tried to focus, focus on the pace and look for information that my body would pass to me, telling me how well I was and just trying to believe in myself.  
   
 Q.   Jemima, you had been considering Chicago and then you decided to run New York.   Obviously, a smart move to run New York.   Did the extra couple weeks help in your training for the marathon?   
JEMIMA SUMGONG:   What made me to run in New York than Chicago, that decision was I was well prepared for Chicago, but I had a problem with my muscle, that's my hamstring.   And I called my manager, we talked with my manager, and I tell him I won't make it to go to Chicago due to a problem, or I had an injury.   
So I just decided to reduce my training and that I would catch up in the New York race.   That made me postpone my race to New York.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT