THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 7, 2009
Brad Adamonis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOHN BUSH: If we can just get you to give us some general comments on your round. 
 BRAD ADAMONIS: Yeah, sure. I just got off to a really good start. I got a nice up-and-down on the 11th hole. I haven't been playing that well and I missed a five-footer on the first hole, maybe six feet, so I was like, here we go again. But then I made a nice 20-footer on the 11th hole for birdie, and then I made about a six-footer on 12, and I just -- things seemed to be going my way today. I don't know, it's one of those things. I played pretty well and definitely hit the ball well. 
 I've got to thank my friend Jay Golden, who helped me out with my swing. I've been struggling with that facet of my game, and my chipping and putting has been pretty good all year, so hopefully I can get hot with my ball-striking and maintain what I've been doing chipping and putting.

 Q. Nice to see that putt on 5 roll in?
 BRAD ADAMONIS: Yeah, that was probably the longest putt I've made all year, so to see one of those go in. I got a read off Tim Clark and luckily it went dead center. 

 Q. Not bad for a first official round on the Stadium Course, huh?
 BRAD ADAMONIS: Yeah, I'll take it. It's a tough course. I've played here maybe three times. I didn't play too well. To shoot a 67 is great, great start. Hopefully I can continue the flow. 

 Q. What's it like looking up at the leaderboard and you see your name?
 BRAD ADAMONIS: I don't look at the leaderboard. I try to execute shots. That's my plan. 

 Q. What about tonight, will you let yourself look at the leaderboard tonight?
 BRAD ADAMONIS: Probably not. It's kind of irrelevant. I just want to play four good rounds, and that's kind of where my game -- I haven't had a very good year, and I'm just looking to hit good shots and shoot good scores, and then I'll kind of look at the end hopefully, unless maybe the end is real close or if I'm lucky enough to be in that position, that's kind of my goal, but execute shots and shoot good scores. 

 Q. You said yesterday you try to make this like any other event?
 BRAD ADAMONIS: Yeah, exactly.

 Q. Did you do a good job of that today?
 BRAD ADAMONIS: Yeah, I just tried --

 Q. Were you nervous at all?
 BRAD ADAMONIS: A little bit nervous on the first tee. I hit a pretty good drive, and just kind of like a normal round. I tried to treat it that way and I did a pretty good job. Some of the other big tournaments I've played in I haven't been able to do that, so I guess I'm just getting older and more experienced. 

 Q. You would have taken 67 at the start of the day, wouldn't you?
 BRAD ADAMONIS: For sure, no doubt about it. At the end I think I could have shot actually a couple strokes better but I'll take 67 and I've got a nice early tee time tomorrow and hopefully I can shoot another good round.

 Q. How were the conditions this afternoon?
 BRAD ADAMONIS: Conditions were real good. The wind was pretty -- there wasn't much wind. The greens weren't super firm. It was just pretty good conditions I would say, compared to like -- I know I was watching it last year, and that looked pretty brutal.

 Q. What was the key today?
 BRAD ADAMONIS: My wife gave me a nice little tip at the beginning of the day. She tried telling me just have fun out there and try to stay patient, pick the course apart, just take it one shot at a time, and luckily that's what I did.

 Q. How many family members do you have here watching?
 BRAD ADAMONIS: I've got quite a few, my uncle, my kids -- they're too young to watch, but my mother and father are coming. My dad is here, my wife and some friends, so it was pretty cool.

 Q. Did you WD last week? Was there a health reason?
 BRAD ADAMONIS: Yeah, I hurt my wrist. I hurt it about a week before the tournament, and it was really bothering me, and I wanted to play in this tournament. It was bothering me. That's why I withdrew. But it feels luckily good. Hopefully it's gone. 

 Q. How was your practice coming into today? Did you feel like a good round was coming?
 BRAD ADAMONIS: Yeah, I put in some good work on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday. Once again, I worked with Jay Golden. He's a pro out of Orlando. He helped me out last year when I started playing pretty good, so good things have happened when I've worked with him. I had pretty good practice. Pretty encouraging, because I've been struggling for the last month or so.

 Q. You said yesterday you weren't feeling too good about your game, so something changed quickly. 
 BRAD ADAMONIS: Well, I did feel a little bit better from the practice, but still, I had missed the previous cut, and then last week I had to withdraw, so I didn't feel so great about my game. 67 is good, but I'm just looking -- tomorrow I want to go out and shoot a solid round.

 Q. Does a 67 change anything?
 BRAD ADAMONIS: Not really. It doesn't change anything. That's the one thing, as I play more golf, to try not to like get highs and lows as much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT