JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 12, 2008
Brad Adamonis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   STEWART MOORE: Brad Adamonis, thanks for spending a few minutes with us here in the interview room at the John Deere Classic after a great third round, you jump right into the lead, your Celtics are NBA champions, the Patriots are good, the Red Sox with World Series Champions and everything else is good.   
 BRAD ADAMONIS: Everything is good. My wife is sick, though, that's the problem. She had food poisoning last night. It feels good to get in another 66. Hopefully tomorrow I can do the same and we'll see what happens.  
  
  Q. This is a new experience for you going into tomorrow with the lead?  
 BRAD ADAMONIS: Yeah, I'm just going to go out there and try to do what I did today, take it one shot at a time. I know you hear it all the time. And try to execute my shots and go for my shots, I've got nothing to lose.  
  
  Q. Do you think another 66 will win?   
 BRAD ADAMONIS: Probably, yeah, I think so. It'll be pretty close. I think the pins will be a little tougher, so yeah, I think definitely.   
  
  Q. Talk about the decision for lift, clean and place today.   
 BRAD ADAMONIS: Yeah, it was a good decision. I guess there was quite a few storms last night, and the fairways were really wet. I had a couple mud balls, so I think it was a good decision.  
  
  Q. Did that factor into the low scoring, or how did it factor into the low scoring?   
 BRAD ADAMONIS: I think the wetness of the golf course factored into the low scoring for sure, because I know on one tee shot I pulled it a little bit. If the conditions were firm, it probably would have went in the hazard. Instead it stayed almost in the fairway. Just you have more room to hit the golf ball, so therefore you swing more freely. You'll see a lot lower scores when the conditions are wet.  
  
  Q. How about the greens?  
 BRAD ADAMONIS: Greens are pure, really good, good speed and real receptive to shots. If you hit a good shot, it's going to be close.   
  
  Q. What's the closest you've ever been to the lead on Sunday?  
 BRAD ADAMONIS: For a PGA TOUR event?   
  
  Q. Yeah.   
 BRAD ADAMONIS: I don't know. I think it was probably like four strokes at the Travelers this year.  
  
  Q. Rare air?   
 BRAD ADAMONIS: Well, you know, I don't really look at it in any particular way. I'm just trying to go out and execute tomorrow. That's the way I have to look at it, try and just do the best I can and hopefully it's good enough.   
  
  Q. You talked a lot in the past about patience, but how hard was it to be patient on the back nine as you were kind of making a parade of pars and obviously scoring was low?  
 BRAD ADAMONIS: It was pretty windy out, so I was just pretty happy with some of the pars. You know, I figured I could maybe birdie the 14th hole and then 17. I didn't birdie 14, but 17 was great. I made a nice eagle and it was a good way to finish the day.   
  
  Q. You got your TOUR card last year. Did you envision yourself being in positions like this?  
 BRAD ADAMONIS: Yeah, that's kind of why I play golf, you know, try to do the best I can and maybe win some tournaments someday. Luckily last year I won a Nationwide Tour event, and that was the best thing that ever happened in my golf game. It gave me a lot of confidence, and then qualifying for Q-school. Hopefully I can go out and execute some of the shots I hit for the first three days.  
  
  Q. What's it going to be like playing tomorrow knowing how jam-packed that leaderboard is right now?  
 BRAD ADAMONIS: You know, I'm just not really going to pay attention to it. I'm going to just do my thing and see what happens.  
  
  Q. Considering how Kenny Perry has been playing, is he maybe the one guy on that leaderboard that everyone is going to pay more attention to?  
 BRAD ADAMONIS: I'm sticking to what I do and I don't really care what he does. He's playing great and he's obviously the guy to beat. But for me, as a guy that's only come in 6th place his best finish, what these other guys do just doesn't mean anything to me. It's what I do, you know, that's kind of what I just want to try to go out there and execute the shots, make some putts, maybe even get lucky enough to chip one in.  
  
  Q. When you won on the Nationwide, were you in the lead the last day?  
 BRAD ADAMONIS: No, I came from behind. I think I was like four shots back, and I shot 69 or 70, I can't remember, the last day, and it was real windy out. And then I won in an eight-hole playoff. That was awesome.   
  
  Q. Is your wife going to be a little offended that you can go out and take care of business so well knowing she's back laying there sick?  
 BRAD ADAMONIS: Well, I just hope she's feeling better. I have no comment to that (laughter).  
  
  Q. How do you handle the emotions of your position right now, between now and tomorrow when you tee off?  
 BRAD ADAMONIS: Try not to think about it.  
  
  Q. Seriously?  
 BRAD ADAMONIS: Seriously, just go out and try to play tomorrow like you guys are going out to play a round of golf to do the best you can. That's kind of the way. When I was younger playing a lot, and you add all this emotional stuff to the game, it really, I think, affects you and takes away your mental energy for the next day. That's what I think -- that's how I'm going to approach it.  
  
  Q. Are you able to turn that on and off like a switch?  
 BRAD ADAMONIS: That's kind of what I'm a professional golfer for. That's kind of what you have to do. At least that's the way I try to do it. It's been working out pretty good lately. I haven't done it like that my whole career, obviously, but that's what I'm trying to do.   
  
  Q. This could set up to be a pretty -- talk about tight, a pretty crazy finish. It could be pretty good TV, drama, too. Is it hard when you've had a month or four weeks where everyone has been saying golf season is over, there's no Tiger around?   
 BRAD ADAMONIS: Yeah, it should be a really good finish. There should be a lot of birdies tomorrow. You know, it's hard to replace Tiger, but maybe we can do a good job tomorrow.   
 STEWART MOORE: Brad, thanks so much more coming in. Good luck tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT