TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 20, 2008
Brad Adamonis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   NELSON SILVERIO: Brad, thanks for joining us again. A bogey-free 68 today, great up-and-down on 18, why don't you talk about that up-and-down and your general thoughts on your round.  
 BRAD ADAMONIS: Yeah, I was playing pretty well and I was thinking maybe get one more birdie on the last hole and I hit driver, and I had not even contemplated hitting driver before last year.   
 I didn't trust my swing and hit it in the sand trap and bladed it over the green. I'm thinking maybe it's out-of-bounds, and luckily I had a window where I can get it on the green and I made about a 15-footer and it was a great way to end the day.   
  
  Q. Playing terrifically this year, can you compare your overall game right now to where you were last year?  
 BRAD ADAMONIS: Yeah, definitely hitting the ball a lot better than I was when I came here last year, a lot more consistent, and I had a lot more confidence. I won a tournament on the Nationwide Tour last year, and just the confidence is the biggest thing.   
 You know, being able to play here in the atmosphere last year certainly helped me out for this year.   
  
  Q. Any differences between yesterday and today? I know you didn't have a bogey.   
 BRAD ADAMONIS: Some of the putts fell yesterday I think and I think I got the ball a little closer to the hole on some of the shots. But I hit the ball pretty well today, and I can't complain.   
 I feel like a couple of the putts could have fell, but in general I'm pretty happy with shooting 68. Hopefully tomorrow I can put together a good round again.   
  
  Q. Being from Rhode Island, did you feel the crowd starting to grow around you and taking you on as the hometown guy?  
 BRAD ADAMONIS: Yeah, on I noticed on the last nine, there was more and more people trying to root me on. Too bad I didn't make a couple more birdies, but hopefully tomorrow there will be a couple more people here and I can make some birdies and give them something to cheer for.   
 If I could make a nice 30-footer or a chip-in or do something like that, that would be great.   
  
  Q. Is your family here?  
 BRAD ADAMONIS: Yeah, my mom and dad are here, my brother, my wife and two kids, my in-laws are here, my sister-in-law, got some friends here, so it's pretty cool. And I'm sure there will be a lot more tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Any Yankee fans today?   
 BRAD ADAMONIS: No, that was a little joke. I was just kidding around about that, no problems.  
 NELSON SILVERIO: Thanks, Brad, good luck tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
 
 
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT