TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 19, 2008
Brad Adamonis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   NELSON SILVERIO: Thanks for coming in and spending a few minutes with us, 64 today, eagle on 15. Celtics win, you must be feeling pretty good right now.   
 BRAD ADAMONIS: Life is good. The only thing missing is the Patriots.  
 NELSON SILVERIO: They'll work on that, I'm sure. Why don't you just give us some general comments on your round today.   
 BRAD ADAMONIS: Yeah, I played really solid. My father was honored by Golfweek Magazine this last weekend for Father of the Year, and it was pretty cool, and I got to play with him. It was a lot of fun.   
 Actually he helped me out with my game along with another guy over there, Jay Golden from Orlando, and started hitting the ball a lot better on Sunday, and then Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and here we are Thursday. I owe them some thanks. I hit the ball pretty well and made a few putts.   
  
  Q. Was this over in Rhode Island you were playing a little bit?  
 BRAD ADAMONIS: No, actually it was down in Miami. We had the week off and I'm from Rhode Island, so a more sensible thing would be to prepare around here in Rhode Island, you know, on the right grass. It was down in Miami at Doral.   
  
  Q. Talk about the eagle.   
 BRAD ADAMONIS: Yeah. 15, I was playing real well. I almost eagled on No. 13, and then I bogeyed 14. So to come back and hit a nice shot on 15 was great.   
 But I just tried to cut a driver and it was going right at the hole. I was praying it would sit down. It hit the bank perfectly and it only rolled like three feet up on the green, so it couldn't have been any better. I made about a ten-footer, so that was a good fortune there.   
  
  Q. It wasn't closest to the pin, though.   
 BRAD ADAMONIS: Yeah, I heard a guy hit it a foot.  
  
  Q. Johnson hit it 18 inches.   
 BRAD ADAMONIS: That's pretty solid.  
  
  Q. Did you hit into a fan or a fan was yelling at you on 17? What happened there?  
 BRAD ADAMONIS: Yeah, I was on No. 17 and I was over my shot, and usually I kind of -- I don't really hear anything when I hit a shot, but I did hear a guy yell right in the middle of my swing, and then I looked up and the guy is mouthing off to me, which -- he was bombed, drunk out of his mind, then he started calling me a couple names. That's all right. I mean, that's his problem, not mine.  
  
  Q. It wasn't anybody from Rhode Island, was it?  
 BRAD ADAMONIS: I don't know who it was. It must have been a Yankees fan (laughter), because I'm a Red Sox fan, so it must have been a Yankees fan (laughter).   
  
  Q. You took us through 15. Do you mind taking us through your other birdies and bogeys?   
 BRAD ADAMONIS: Yeah, sure. On No. 2 I hit a pretty nice shot about eight feet straight up the hill.  
 And then on 4 -- I mean, to birdie three of the four par-3s on this golf course is pretty solid. What is it, No. 5 -- yeah, No. 5, I hit a nice 5-iron about 12 feet, made a great putt there.  
 And then on 8, right after making a bogey, I hit a 6-iron about ten feet, made that putt.   
 And then on No. 11, I hit a 9-iron about five feet.  
 Then I birdied No. 12, I hit a nice drive, sand wedge about ten feet, made a nice putt.  
 Then I hit a driver, 3-iron about 15 feet on the par-5 and just missed it, left it short.   
  
  Q. How far did you almost make another eagle?   
 BRAD ADAMONIS: That was on No. 13. It was probably about 15 feet.   
  
  Q. You left it just short?  
 BRAD ADAMONIS: Yeah, it was right in the middle of the hole. But hey, good birdie. I'll take any birdie.   
 Let's see, eagled 15 and then birdied 18, hit a nice drive and a good pitching wedge about 15 feet, made it. It was a good way to end.  
  
  Q. On 17 which shot was that where the fan yelled in your swing?  
 BRAD ADAMONIS: Second shot right over the water. I almost -- I kind of bladed the shot. Luckily it hit the front and went on the green. I think I would have been a little more mad if I hit it in the water. But that's, I guess -- if I was playing baseball or another sport, I mean, that's just the rub of the green, right?   
  
  Q. Did you have 25 feet there?  
 BRAD ADAMONIS: Yeah, I almost made that putt, too. The putter was rolling pretty well, except for I three-putted 16. I actually had an opportunity to make five 2s, which is pretty good, and I left it like four feet short. I was thinking, don't hit it way by. But four 2s is good any day.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT