PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2005
Steve Elkington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JULIUS MASON:  Steve Elkington, ladies and gentlemen.  Steve, we won't keep you very long, but how did it go out there today?
STEVE ELKINGTON:  It's a shame obviously that we didn't get to finish, but I didn't really want to play the last three holes into the wind, either.

You know, it's a bit of a to and fro situation going on out there with about three or four players, and it's a shame that the crowds didn't get to see the finish and CBS on TV.  I know I would have liked to have been watching it.  I had a front seat (laughter).
Q.  What's the challenge of having to wait when you're in the thick of the final round to win a major now, wait until tomorrow?
STEVE ELKINGTON:  Well, it's slightly different, I think, because we only have    I only have three holes left, and two of them are par 5s.  So, you know, my mindset as of right now is I'll probably be the first one with a chance to post a score better than Tiger's, and hopefully it's about 5 under.
Q.  With regard to what you kind of talked about, the shame of not getting this in, are you surprised that CBS did not at least go an hour earlier knowing that there was weather in the forecast?
STEVE ELKINGTON:  You know, it seems like we've had weather in the forecast all week.  We've been lucky.  I never really    I haven't really thought about it to be honest with you.
Q.  When you saw how difficult the conditions were going to be in your first few holes, were you surprised that everybody sort of backed up a little bit and you were able to sort of maintain your position?
STEVE ELKINGTON:  I think the conditions were the most difficult today of the four, just from the standpoint that the wind was a bit stronger and they had a real tight pin at the 4th, and then the 6th and 7th were    played into the wind.  You know, and then everybody wants to win it, obviously, and it's a lot of pressure, so it's hard to hit great shots all the way.
Q.  I just wanted to clarify, where exactly are you on the golf course?  Have you finished a hole and not started another?
STEVE ELKINGTON:  I'm on the 16th tee.
JULIUS MASON:  Steve, thank you very much for coming down.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT