BOOZ ALLEN CLASSIC
June 10, 2005
Steve Elkington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  We thank Steve Elkington for joining us after a second round 67, sits at 7 under after two rounds at the 2005 Booz Allen Classic.

You got off to a great start today with three birdies in your first six holes.
STEVE ELKINGTON:  Yeah, I mean, it's a great course, you know.  We look forward to playing this tournament this year here.  I think seems like the scoring has been pretty low as a whole.  But this course, unlike a lot of courses we play, you have to hit great shots, you have to hit great drives.  There's a lot of tough shots, like the 2nd hole, you know, 240 yard par 3.  You got to get your game in shape.

This was one of the best courses we ever played on the TOUR.  I like this style of golf.  If your game's on, you can do it.  If you're just a little bit off, you're out.
THE MODERATOR:  You made seven of nine cuts this year with a T6 at THE PLAYERS Championship.  Are you happy with the way your year is going, since we are at about the halfway point?
STEVE ELKINGTON:  Yeah, I'm going okay.  I've been on TOUR for a long time.  You know, I'm like a giant mutual fund:  my stock was way up here, went down, maybe I'm kind of coming up a bit more now.  I've got some kids, two children, that I focused on for a few years, had a few health things.  But, you know, I'm playing well at the moment.
THE MODERATOR:  We'll open it up for some questions.
Q.  How often did you play this course?
STEVE ELKINGTON:  I never played here in the tournament, but I came over here and played quite a bit.  I played in The Open here.  I actually qualified for the British Open here last year.  So I know the course pretty well.  But my caddie, Joe Grillo , he's been on tour 30 years, so he caddied in about 18 of them.  He knows the course well.

Hasn't changed really over the years.
Q.  Talk about the strength of the Australians on the TOUR.
STEVE ELKINGTON:  Yeah, I mean, we have so many, we have about 21 guys.  I haven't even got around to introducing myself to all of them yet.  But it used to be the trend was they all went to Europe and played.  Greg Norman and myself played here.  Now that the purses have gone sky high, they're all focusing here.

But we have such good courses in Australia, you've seen them on TV if you haven't been there.  The training grounds to develop young players is good.  We have guys like myself and Greg, let's see, who would be the next oldest, Craig Parry, Stuart Appelby, guys that they can follow.  I was trying to tell a reporter the other day about Australian guys.  As a rule, Australian sportsmen travel really well.  By that I mean they've always done well in the Olympics and big events.  For some reason, Australians can leave their home and compete and do well.  Somehow some countries don't play at a high level when they go away.  The Aussies for some reason, when they go away, do.
Q.  Have you been aware of Robert Allenby's problems with his hands?
STEVE ELKINGTON:  No.  I read about them.  I've got enough problems of my own, mate (laughter).  Hope he has some more problems with his hands.
Q.  Can you go into what some of those injuries were?
STEVE ELKINGTON:  I haven't had anything in the last couple years.  But I've had my problems, yeah.  They're pretty well documented.  But I'm fit now.  I feel great.  I went through a 36 hole qualifier this week at Woodmont to qualify for The Open.  I've lost about 15 pounds this week.  Got to get some new slacks.
THE MODERATOR:  We'll go through your card.
STEVE ELKINGTON:  I birdied the 1st hole.  Hit a real nice wedge in there about eight feet.

Parred 2.

Parred 3.

4, I hit it behind the hole.  A bit of a mistake.  I made about a 40 footer.

5, par.

6, hit a beautiful little wedge about a foot.

Parred 7, 8.

9, I made a bogey.  Hit the wrong club.  Went over the back in the bunker.  Made six.

10, I hit a good drive, 3 iron on the front edge, made about a 30 footer.

11, I hit a 3 wood and a wedge about 10 feet.

That was it.
THE MODERATOR:  Thanks.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT