BELLSOUTH CLASSIC
April 5, 2002
Steve Elkington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Things play any differently than yesterday or everything pretty much the same?
STEVE ELKINGTON: Yeah, a little bit of an easterly wind blowing yesterday; then a bit of a northern this morning.  Quite cool there, but for the most part it's not really changing the course strategy too much.  It is not really affecting the play of the holes too much really.

Q.   Any feeling as to why you have done so well here? You won the Buick Challenge here and you are playing --
STEVE ELKINGTON: I haven't won anything this year.

Q.   I mean, in Georgia, in previous years, anything about it that kind of --
STEVE ELKINGTON: I have won on a lot of good courses on Tour.  I won like -- six of the tournaments I have won have been on -- what is the architect that did the Callaway Garden?  Dick Wilson.  I won twice there.  And then Dick Wilson did La Costa and then Dick Wilson did -- there's another one, Doral he did that one originally.  I don't know.  I won at Riviera, so I like good courses. 
This course here was obviously designed with, like I said yesterday, as a real strong driving course.  You can really let it rip.  Davis Love, I played with him today, he didn't do so well but, boy, really gives him a chance to let it rip. 

Q.   Really is a shot-maker's golf course?
STEVE ELKINGTON: Yes, it is, very precise approach shots.

Q.   Do you think of Greg Norman's game when you think of this course, when you play it?
STEVE ELKINGTON: Not lately.  (Laughter). 

Q.   When he was in his good years?
STEVE ELKINGTON: Sure.  Sure. 

Q.   Yesterday you talked about the fact that you thought it was maybe unfair that someone could win this event like yourself and not be in the event next week.
STEVE ELKINGTON: I said the last two weeks you can win actually both of them and certainly there's that loophole there that's there.  I don't think that's fair, personally.  I think all the guys that win the tournament should be in the Masters, all the majors, that's just my feeling.  I think they should get the top 100 players in.  I think the category should go right up to it.  That's the way it used to be. 

Q.   You are talking about if you were low enough on the money list that even two wins wouldn't put you in the top 3 or  --
STEVE ELKINGTON: Right.  I am saying like if I won the tournament here, I might go to 40, 50 in the rankings and I'd actually be in the tournament by the  --(inaudible)  if the cutoff date was prior -- it doesn't make any sense.  That's a loophole that will probably get fixed. 

Q.   Seems to be like no gray area for the players, every player you talk to says it was a bad idea?
STEVE ELKINGTON: It's terrible.  Used to be so exciting, you know, takes all the drama out of this course out of this tournament' in a way.  I mean, it was so cool a couple of years ago when Gary Nicklaus had a chance to win this tournament and would be able to go down the road with his dad, but there was nothing there for it.  I think they would have to rethink that personally.

Q.   They don't usually backup at Augusta though?
STEVE ELKINGTON: No, and I don't think you guys write real strong opinions against them either (laughs). 

Q.   Do you think they should maybe expand the field a little?
STEVE ELKINGTON: I think they could  -- I think it doesn't really matter how big the field is as long as it doesn't get over about 135.  I don't think they should -- the past champions that aren't playing on the Tour, I don't think they should count against the field probably.  There's probably a dozen guys that play like Arnold Palmer and Jack and George Archer, all those guys, I don't think they should probably count against the number that gets in.  But I do think there's a spot for everyone that won.  People don't realize how hard it is to win.  I mean, is there a guy that wins say a week, wins here, gets in from a guy that hasn't won at all, ever.  But he has had consistent play.  There's argument for both sides. 

Q.   They want to keep the field at that number, they want a 95-man field.
STEVE ELKINGTON: But they never rank high in the best players for the year, so it's either one goal or the other. 

Q.   Since they are going to threesomes anyways now  ---
STEVE ELKINGTON: Doesn't make any difference really.  Wouldn't matter if they played 95 or 120, still going to take the same time to play. 

Q.   Do you think because of the way it's structured and because of the restrictions involved, does it maybe take a little luster off it being a major as it is, obviously there have been majors that are no longer majors, last 100 years Western Golf Association used to have a major.  It's not one anymore, do you think that maybe because the restricted field, the same course all the time, that maybe there should be some discussion if that's fair if a major should in fact allow for a bigger field and have -- and the players should have more control over what happens in regards to determining that field?
STEVE ELKINGTON: Well,  the players aren't going to have any control over what happens at Augusta.  (Laughs) I can tell you that for sure.
But you know like that Craig Perks who won it at THE PLAYERS Championship, I mean the Royal & Ancient gave him a five-year exemption  I think for winning THE PLAYERS.
STEVE ELKINGTON: British Open recognizes  THE PLAYERS Championship and they gave him four years into the British, plus this year, right, this year and four more.  It actually is like a five-year exemption, but the U.S. Open only gives him one.  PGA gives him one and The Masters gives him three.  So the Royal and Ancient, the oldest place recognizes THE PLAYERS Championship so highly that they give the champion a five-year exemption to their tournament just to make sure that they got the best players.

Q.   Speaking of majors any feelings on the Majors Tour, the proposed majors Tour that Fred has talked about?
STEVE ELKINGTON: No, I went to the meeting and talked about it with him, you know, you know, I talked earlier about having three-day tournaments where you can not have -- you can almost do both, but I don't think it's going to work out.  But it may finish up pushing the SENIOR TOUR lower which may be a good thing.

Q.   Talking how hard it is to win, what would it mean to you to win this one?
STEVE ELKINGTON: Wins are great.  Wins are good.  I have won 10 tournaments and I like winning, so I haven't had many opportunities, but I do appreciate them when I get them.  I'd like to play well here.  I'd like to do well here on Saturday and Sunday.

Q.   How many events did you lose over the last couple of years with the problems you have had and all that really helped you tumble down the ratings?
STEVE ELKINGTON: I have had a few things happen but over the course of my career probably I have played 17 years on Tour, I probably lost a year, but I've got no regrets.  I had a great run in the '90s, I won 10 tournaments in the '90s, and I have two young children that I have spent a lot of time with early on, and I am only 39.  I have plenty of time.  I feel fit now, but I think I have got a lot of good golf to be honest with you.  I am strong, I am big, I hit the ball plenty far enough.  I don't see any reason  -- I have got all the experience now and I think that really think that is what helps you out here now.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN: Three birdies out of the gate.  Go over them for us.
STEVE ELKINGTON: 10th hole in the sand  -- greens-side bunker, made a real nice sand shot out to about five feet.  Parred 11.  12, hit a 3-wood and 5-iron about 20 feet made it.  13, I hit -- laid up with a 3-wood, hit a wedge about 15 feet.  On the 6th hole I made an incredible flop-shot over the bunker and made about a 5-footer.  Best shot I have hit of the year. 





End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT