DORAL-RYDER OPEN
March 1, 2000
Steve Elkington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







STEVE ELKINGTON: I like going out on the west coast, like going to Las Vegas; you can't
wait to get there and you can't wait to leave. But I have always enjoyed Doral. I think
Doral sort of starts the golf season for the East Coast. I just like this course. I have
had a lot of success here obviously, and it suits my game, I think.

Q. How is your health?

STEVE ELKINGTON: I am a little tired. We had a roast last night for Jackie Burke in
Houston; went late, had a lot of fun, but a lot of the guys came in for it. Wonderful
night.

Q. Greg Norman said a few years ago everybody knows the season starts at Doral. But is
that more saying that you prepare for The Masters, TPC, this is 
where you really start to fine-tune the game?

STEVE ELKINGTON: Well, Greg may feel like for him it is that here. That is okay. For a
lot of guys -- I mean, Greg wants to win the majors, so it is okay for him to say that.
Some guys -- there is so much money now, it is hard not to go out to the West Coast and
compete now. Guys got a couple of million bucks in the bank, a lot of guys got half a
million dollars in the bank before they even get over here. So can't be bad playing the
West Coast.

Q. It has changed because the courses --

STEVE ELKINGTON: Yes, I think they have upgraded everything, got their big new Match
Play event at Pebble Beach; always one that I have liked. Riviera is a great place. They
have done a good job. The Tour is really on top of that West Coast and everybody is out
there now playing.

Q. When was the last time you caught a vine and swung into the jungle?

STEVE ELKINGTON: Last week I was in there.

Q. I heard you telling a story 1991 when you won TPC about Payne Stewart on the fairway
...

STEVE ELKINGTON: When I won THE PLAYERS Championship in 1991 I was coming to the last
hole -- I was coming to the last hole paired with Curtis Strange and Payne Stewart was the
course commentator for some reason, I think he was hurt. I drove my ball in the divot. He
was up ahead of me and he was looking at that divot with a microphone shaking his head
like, oh, no - I could see him talking into the microphone saying, oh, no, Steve he will
-- he really got a bad break here, he is in a divot; got no chance and I actually hit a
great shot on the green, made a birdie and won the tournament. But I remember being a
little bit nervous, Payne was standing right there and Curtis was standing right there - I
need you guys to back up just a little bit so I can feel a little bit better. Now we don't
have Payne with us, but it will be a memory I have just between me and him. As soon as I
hit that shot, man, he came over, he said, man, that was the greatest shot; God, he said,
that was the greatest shot I have ever seen. Man, that was great.

Q. Made the putt a lot easier?

STEVE ELKINGTON: The putt wasn't easy but I tell you what, the 3-iron out of the divot
wasn't real easy either, so...

Q. Just talk real quick about defending this week and what it is like to be back? 

STEVE ELKINGTON: Well, I have always said I love playing the Doral. I like coming down
here. I like coming to the East Coast and playing. The course suits me, obviously, I have
won here twice. I like the greens here; the wind blowing reminds me a lot of where I grew
up so I feel very comfortable down here.

Q. The wind helps you a little bit; makes you feel at home?

STEVE ELKINGTON: Over time I think the wind helps. I think it helps you shape your
shots well and it makes you strike the ball very well. You got to strike the ball well to
get it through the wind and onto the green where you want it, so...

Q. Talk a little bit about your game coming into this weekend and how it is at this
point?

STEVE ELKINGTON: I feel okay about it. I haven't done anything to write about, so to
speak, but I am okay with it. I have only played four times on the West Coast. As I said,
I don't have anything, but I don't feel like my game is very far away. I am certainly not
on top of my game, but I wasn't when I came in here last year either. This is sort of how
I play. I sort of get going as things go along, so this is where I have done well in the
past. I never have done much out west and I sort of get going when I get over here.

Q. Sort of jump-starts your season for you?

STEVE ELKINGTON: Well, you get all the bandaids out of the way in the West Coast. You
get back to the real stuff. You think you might want to change a few things over
Christmas; they all don't work on the West Coast.

Q. What about this course that suits you so well?

STEVE ELKINGTON: Well, I think with all these bunkers and wind it's created players and
created a lot of problems for players and I have -- I seem to have been be able to avoided
that the two years I have won here. I have not been in all those bunkers. Maybe it the
game plan, I am not saying I got a better plan; maybe I have executed better or I don't
know what it is. But I don't think it is an easy course if the wind blows, but if the wind
is like this, it's going to be record scoring.

Q. Last year I remember you were just getting over the meningitis thing. Have you had
anymore problems with that since then?

STEVE ELKINGTON: No. I am fine now. 100% now.

Q. Is this the first time that you started the season healthy?

STEVE ELKINGTON: I usually start the season healthy; depends how I finish the season is
more important. But I am feeling pretty good now.

Q. Make any changes in the off-season with your game or equipment or --

STEVE ELKINGTON: No.

Q. What is working well for you right now?

STEVE ELKINGTON: Well, we will see, I am starting to drive the ball pretty well and I
think when I get out on the course this afternoon and I think I will be fine as far as --
I certainly remember how to play this course. I know what sort of shots I like to shape,
tee shots and so on, so we will just see how things play out. I think if I can -- usually,
for me, I am not sort of -- I am not the greatest out-of-the-box-type player. I tend to
creep up on everybody and if I can get a few rounds under my belt, early first two rounds,
get into the flow of the tournament a bit, then I think everything will come back to being
real competitive and getting near the top. 

Q. Certainly did that last year with those 6 birdies?

STEVE ELKINGTON: Yeah. That came as a bit of a surprise. I was playing well in 1997
better than I was last year, but as I said, I just sort of sneaked along up a bit.
Sometimes all the people think that you have to -- just because you are leading the
tournament after the first day, doesn't mean -- you know, it is a 72-hole event, I have
always felt like you can always be a fast finisher as well, so...

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT