THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 29, 1997
Steve Elkington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








STEVE ELKINGTON:  You know, my bogey-bogey finish didn't -- I mean, it was not what I wanted, but it didn't upset me if -- I played so well today.  I really felt like I played well.  Didn't spoil my dinner, but it almost did.  Want me to go through the round?

STEVE ELKINGTON:  I started on -- let's see, driver on 1, a sand wedge to two feet, birdie.  2:  A driver and a 3-wood just short of the green. Chipped on to about 6 feet, birdie.  3:  I hit 7-iron to about 10 feet, birdie.  4:  Driver, 9-iron, 2 putts, 30 feet.  5:  Driver, 9-iron, 20 feet, 2 putts.  6:  Driver, wedge, 4 feet birdie.  7:  Driver, 9-iron, 20 feet, 2-putt par.  8:  5-iron, two putts from 20 feet.  9:  Driver, 4-iron, sand wedge just short left, chipped up, 4 feet par.  10:  3-wood, wedge, 2 feet birdie.  11:  Driver, 4-iron, wedge, 10 feet, birdie.  12:  Hit a 3-wood in the recover, went over the green, chipped back to -- bad chip maybe 20 feet, maybe 2-putt bogey.  13:  5-iron to 25 feet, 2-putt par.  14:  Driver, 6-iron, just short in a bad spot; chipped down, 15 feet, par, made that.  15:  Driver 8-iron, 20 feet 2-putt par.  16:  I drove right, hit a wedge out; then a 7-iron about 15 feet, birdie.  17:  I didn't know what to hit on that hole.  9-iron, 40, 50 feet or whatever; 3-putted.  And, 18, I hit a 3-wood, 2-iron -- I mean, a chip down to maybe 10 feet, bogey.

STEVE ELKINGTON:  Okay, I'm gone.  (audience laughter)


Q.  Steve, you were cruising along and actually the weather was kind of cooperating, but the last few holes got pretty tough out there with the wind.  The wind kind of really picked up; didn't it?  What are your thoughts?

STEVE ELKINGTON:  Yeah, it started out gusty for us, and then it seemed like in the middle of the round, it just stopped.  And, then towards the end, it picked up again.  I  think that was probably the -- we probably had the best of it really playing late.  The boys played in the wind all morning. It was probably to our benefit, scoringwise, in the front nine.  The 18th hole is playing long just now.  And, 17, you know, is really tricky.  You never know what to do there.


Q.  You're playing well, but how did it feel when you jumped out to as big a lead as you had at that one point?

STEVE ELKINGTON:  Well, good.


Q.  Surprising, I mean, just kind of like, is this really the way -- am I playing this good?

STEVE ELKINGTON:  Well, I'm just playing my game.  I'm not really concerned about, you know, what everyone else is doing.  You know, I realize that I'm hitting the ball where is ideal.  You know a lot of these holes, I'm staying away from trouble very well and hitting, you know, some great iron-shots, so, I realize that.  I also realize that the scoring is not really doing anything.  So, the guys aren't finding it easy. I'm not finding it easy.  I'm just playing very good and hitting the shots where needed.  You know, it's going to be plenty of work cut out tomorrow.  Tomorrow will be tomorrow.  But, today was, you know, a good day to reflect on me because I played so well.  You know, I basically needed to do what I did today and I was pleased in that regard. 


Q.  Steve, the headline in the local paper today read "Elk Hunt."  You've been playing great since the beginning of this tournament.  Do you feel, even though you had a problem down the stretch today, this is your tournament in your control to either win or lose?

STEVE ELKINGTON:  Like I said, tomorrow is tomorrow. You can't tell what's going to happen.  You know, obviously if I play good, I probably got to beat one guy, you know, one or two guys or three guys.  If I play not so good, then I bring in more.  So, everyone is hoping I'm not playing good tomorrow. So, you know, even the guys that are down there at 6, 7, 8 9, whatever, will have to shoot a hell of a round anyway.  So, I think it's shortened, who can win tomorrow, a little bit by the way I played today; plus the way the other field played.  So, in that regard, it's good.


Q.  Steve, how well are you playing in comparison to the way you played in the past.  I mean, how well are you striking?  Is there another tournament that you can compare it to?

STEVE ELKINGTON:  Not really.  I mean I'm -- you know, I feel like I'm swinging well, and the ball is going pretty much where I'm aiming.  I'm moving it around pretty good.  I'm hitting slices and hooks when I need to.  You know, I feel like it's in pretty good control.


Q.  Is it maybe one of the better ball-striking rounds of  your career?  I mean, tournaments in your career, not rounds but just tournaments?

STEVE ELKINGTON:  You know, it's hard to say.  I'm playing well and I'm doing good putting and good chipping and good thinking.  I've had good tournaments where I've hit the ball well and not done that well, so it's hard to say.


Q.  Steve, you said down at Doral that when you putt well you're in contention.  It seemed like today 'til maybe the last couple of holes, you made everything you should have made.  Can you talk about what you've been doing as far as practice?

STEVE ELKINGTON:  Practicing --


Q.  How much?

STEVE ELKINGTON:  Well, just I've been working on my putting.  I always do.  I think, you know, usually when I'm playing well, I'm putting pretty good.  And, you know, I'm putting good right now.  I think putting, you know, comes and goes a little bit for a lot of players.  And, you know, I feel comfortable with what I'm doing right now.  I mean, it's no secret.


Q.  Steve, you said that the bogey-bogey finish didn't spoil your day, but almost did.  You lost two shots to the lead.  Are you disturbed by that at all?

STEVE ELKINGTON:  No, not really.  I mean, those holes are hard, you know.  You can make bogey-bogey easy coming in  here.  So, it would be different if I was playing, you know, downwind or something, and made the last hole I was playing into the wind, off the left.  I had a 3-wood and a 2-iron, and I was kind of aiming my 2-iron to the right anyway.  I didn't want to go left.  I tried that out on Thursday.  And, you know, I figure the worst I can make is 5, so I'm still in good shape.  I mean, at this point I'm not really protecting the lead.  I'm just trying to finish my round.  I'm not going ruin my round with making a double or whatever.  You know, I made bogey at 17.  But, I hit a pretty good second putt.  It's pretty bumpy up around that hole.  I don't know if you all have been up there.  It gets pretty trampled up on top because everybody on that green has to exit the same way and enter the same way on that green.  So, it gets pretty tracked along my line where I was going in.  I thought it would break right.  It was pretty windy out there too, so it's hard to keep steady.


Q.  How long was the second putt?

STEVE ELKINGTON:  Probably 3 feet, maybe less.


Q.  Steve, talk about your thoughts on Sunday.  You've got a real good scoring average on Sunday tournaments you've won. Is that something you learned over the years or you feel like when you've had something within your grasp, you close it out?

STEVE ELKINGTON:  Well, I think it's always different, you know, I've had some good rounds on Sundays.  You know, it's  hard to tell.  You know, you try to prepare yourself well, and if you get in position, you know, you have to try to take advantage.  I mean, I'm playing well.  I feel like I'm playing well.  There's no reason I'm not going to play well tomorrow. You know, I'll let it rip.  Don't worry.


Q.  Have you led wire-to-wire before?

STEVE ELKINGTON:  I don't know.  I don't know.  I don't think that I have.  I did when I won at the Buick Southern.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT