JOHNNIE WALKER WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
December 16, 1993
Steve Elkington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.   Any interesting happenings?

STEVE ELKINGTON:  Third time I have been down.  I think the course is the best out of the three years I have seen it a bit more generous in the fairways and a bit more generous with the rough height, and the-- of course, we didn't have that, what is that, eastwind or west -- didn't have that blowing today.  I think the scores will show a lot; probably the scores will be better that we have seen here last couple of years, but I played pretty well today.  All the players have been here before; have always played the course with that wind and actually now with the course, still it is taking on a different character.  A lot of the holes that were very easy last year now are much more difficult.  Example is number one, and number 18.  So it is probably-- doesn't hurt the first year players here because they don't know what it was like before.


Q.   Some good performances in the Majors this year apart from team events; not a victory for you. Can you sum the year?

STEVE ELKINGTON:  My year was consistent.  I didn't win.  I have got beaten in a playoff in Greensboro and third place finished THE MASTERS, and I just-- it was just consistent.  I really-- I didn't have the chances.  I wasn't in contention like I was the previous year. Previous year I won them, but I had a lot of chances to win and really didn't have the chances this year.  I don't know whether it was just not playing that well on the weekend or whatever, but I wasn't disappointed.  I have been quite happy, in a way, the last time I missed the couple was in Vegas, tournament '92, so I have got quite a streak of consistent money making, if you will, playing well, but just haven't had that real peak; haven't had a real level.  Maybe I'd rather -- I have had years where I have done more of that and done well, so I don't know what to say really.  It wasn't disappointing, but I wasn't terribly pleased either.


Q.   Do you know how many tournaments you have gone to?

STEVE ELKINGTON:  It is about 26 world-wide, probably in the thirties somewhere.


Q.   You generally like playing in this kind of weather, in the heat like this?

STEVE ELKINGTON:  You know, being from Australia, we play in a lot of wind, you know; it gets windy there, I think doesn't it?  But living in Houston I am used to the heat.  I like the wind; it suits my game.  Of course you are playing against a very selective field here. These guys are going to be good scores.  It is going to be a good week.  The weather looks like it is going to be good.  I think we will see better scores and hopefully I can play well the rest of the week.


Q.   Do you want to play in shorts?

STEVE ELKINGTON:  Be all right with me.  I am not going to say that we should play in shorts.  I am saying if it was, it wouldn't bother me, put it that way.  Probably actually would take away from the atmosphere that they are trying to create here, probably.  I probably should say that it would be better if we didn't, probably, although I'd wear them if they made the rule.  We are trying to make a big tournament here and make it, you know, a good product for TV and basically there are the top players in the world here and we want everybody to be happy with it.


Q.   What is your program after this week, taking  a break?

STEVE ELKINGTON:  Yes.  I will probably -- '94, Phoenix Open, play those on the West Coast and then go to the Australian Masters; then that will be the start of it.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT