PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2010
Steve Elkington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Steve, are you happy with the way you played today, especially the back nine, minus the hiccup on 18?   
 STEVE ELKINGTON: Yeah, I got a little tangled up on 18 but just one of those long days, you know, it was just weird coming out here and then sitting around in the fog. It's a bit of a shame to start off in this fashion but hopefully you can catch backup on tomorrow morning and be back on time for Saturday.  
  
  Q. Do you believe the delay factored into the way people are playing out here today?  
 STEVE ELKINGTON: You know, I don't know what that quite means, but, I think the scoring has been okay. I mean, 4-under is a pretty darned good score. I know myself, I only missed one fairway, that was on 18, and I shot 1-under. So I was in probably the best spot all day, so 4-under is pretty good. There are some hard holes out there, particularly starting right out of the gate there, 2,3,4.   
  
  Q. Overall, your impressions of the course this week?   
 STEVE ELKINGTON: It's a great course. It's hard to believe that they built it like this, really, out of nowhere. But it's just so big, you know. It's huge. It's a huge place. I think it's just like awesome, myself.   
  
  Q. Has the mystique taken out of it?  
 STEVE ELKINGTON: There's fog, is that what you mean? I think the course is -- you know, I think the course has got some ferociousness in it for sure.   
  
  Q. Do you feel like in the majors you've maybe got the best chance because of your experience?   
 STEVE ELKINGTON: Maybe. It's always an advantage to have played in a lot of majors. You've got to know what you're doing, that's for sure.   
  
  Q. What is different about them?   
 STEVE ELKINGTON: There's a bigger prize.   
  
  Q. That's it?  
 STEVE ELKINGTON: Well, the guys have more -- there's more pressure. Most of the guys don't want to live without having their name on one of the big trophies. It takes, you know, it takes a lot of good golf and a lot of nerve to win. We have seen that all year long. Everybody thinks -- well, not everybody, like at the British Open, the U.S. Open this year, two guys that came through that in my view, they just got the job done. They had decided that this was their deal, and they are going to do it.   
 I felt like the same way was for me. You don't get that many chances. At least I've had a few chances but a lot of guys don't get chances at it so they feel like they have to step up.   
  
  Q. Do you feel like you have another chance here?  
 STEVE ELKINGTON: We'll see. I'm always hanging around at the PGA. I'd like to get my hands on a trophy, that's what I'm looking for.   
  
  Q. How different is it at 47, more physical or mental?   
 STEVE ELKINGTON: I think the mental part of it is all right. I think, you know, we know what to do. I think the patience and just the sheer amount of skill I think it takes more than anything. It takes a lot of skill more than anything.   
  
  Q. How do you mean?   
 STEVE ELKINGTON: You've got to hit a lot of skillful shots. I have the experience obviously, but you know, you've got to be -- you've got to have a good season going I think, in my view, and you've got to have some form coming in. It's not very likely you're going to start winning PGAs or majors when you haven't been playing well. I think you've got to be flushing it automatically. You've almost got to have a deep old swing that makes the ball go in the fairway. You pass so much trouble -- you can pass a lot of trouble.   
  
  Q. Is that what you did today?   
 STEVE ELKINGTON: Except for the last hole, but other than that, I was in the fairway.   
  
  Q. A nice up-and-down on 18?  
 STEVE ELKINGTON: Yeah, well, I was in one of those little bunkers, I tried to come down this way and didn't work out for me. I actually came out lucky and it sat in a decent lie and I got it to the front edge. I was thrilled to make par, really.   
  
  Q. What do you think of the design of the 6th hole, the bunker that cleaves the green?   
 STEVE ELKINGTON: I like that hole. I think I'm going to tell Herb Kohler that tonight -- I think they need a pin --  
  
  Q. In the middle?   
 STEVE ELKINGTON: Just in that little bunker there, there needs to be a little pin there.   
  
  Q. Overall, happy with your game today?  
 STEVE ELKINGTON: Yeah, I played well today, considering we had the long delay and my feet are tired and the course is pretty wet, and it was a little bit more wind. You know, just a part of -- the fourth hole was a driver and a wood, and then the 15th hole was a driver and a 3-wood. So there's two good pars right there, that's two birdies. They are playing both four and a half, those two, so that's 1-over for everyone walking out the gate. So that's what they are looking at right now.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT