U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2002
Becky Lucidi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









          

BECKY LUCIDA: It really wasn't good golf.  It wasn't nearly as it had been earlier this week, I have to say that.  Today was the worst I have hit the ball all week.  I made a lot of short putts today which I think was key especially in the second 18 --  I mean, the last three holes I played I made like 6-footers or in to halve the holes, which was pretty big, especially because she just had a -- little tap-ins for par so that is a little more pressure on me toward the end. 
 Q.  Initial thoughts after you won was that it was surreal.  When do you think it will sink in?

BECKY LUCIDA: Probably tonight.  I think tonight once I call my family and I hear them, I am sure it will sink in then. 
 Q.  When when you have a 6 up lead at the turn or at the break and she starts getting it back a little bit, in light of what she had done yesterday, at all are you thinking this doesn't look good or this is getting away from me a little bit?

BECKY LUCIDA:  A little bit.  Not very much.  I knew  -- at one point I think at the turn at 9 on the second 18 I was three up and I told Ed I was like, well we are all square.  Because ever since we started the second 18 I kind of played a little bit defensive.  My swing wasn't as solid.  I wasn't swinging through it.   Wasn't as confident as well as my putting stroke as I was on the first 18 holes and earlier in the week.  So I just -- I pretended like the match was all square at that point and I needed to make birdies rather than just kind of moseying up for par and stuff. 
Q.  Why were you tentative?

BECKY LUCIDA: Because it's the U.S. women's Amateur.
Q.  Did you feel confident all day from tee-to-green or was there anything  ---

BECKY LUCIDA: For the most part I think so.  On a scale of one to 10 probably about an 8. 
 Q.   What does it mean to you to win this event?

BECKY LUCIDA:  It means a lot.  Ever since I saw the U.S. Open this summer and I saw  Juli Inkster win -- well I saw her Meredity Duncan tee up with Juli and Se Ri Pak this year and I said like that's pretty cool, I'd like to do that next summer.  Juli Inkster is my favorite player.  Just knowing that I get to play with her next year is enough for me. 
Q.  Is that the first time that maybe the Women's Amateur Championship became a realistic goal to you?

BECKY LUCIDA: Definitely. 
Q.  After watching the Women's Open?

BECKY LUCIDA: Yes.  After I saw that -- I mean I remember sitting on the couch with my dad I am like, you know, the winner of the U.S. am gets to play with these ladies, these heroes to some people, but these icons, these LPGA Tour professionals I was -- I said I want to there be next year, so that was my -- ever since I saw that that was my goal, up until today.
Q.  Have you ever played with someone of that echelon?

BECKY LUCIDA: No.  
Q.  Are you -- what are your plans as far as after college?  Hoping to turn pro?

BECKY LUCIDA: Yes.
Q.  Do you have a timetable?

BECKY LUCIDA: No.  I really don't.  I know I get to the play in the U.S. Open next year and the Am, so I am not going to give that opportunity up for anything. 
Q.  What did Meredith say to you when she first greeted you?

BECKY LUCIDA:  She just said I was more nervous than you out there, I can't believe it, how good does it feel, and way to go, good job, nothing but the best. 
 Q.  If you had thought about turning pro prior to this tournament what does this do as far as do you feel like, wow, now I can really compete?  I think I have a game considering the people that have won this tournament before does it raises your confidence to a new level?

BECKY LUCIDA: Definitely it does, but tell you the truth, there's never been that thought about turning pro without getting your degree, at least in my family, my parents would maybe disown me if I didn't get my college degree beforehand, but knowing that I did win this, it's definitely an obscene amount of confidence that I have right now. 
Q.  Degree?

BECKY LUCIDA:  B.A. in bachelor of Arts, communications, journalism. 
Q.  Journalism (laughter)?

BECKY LUCIDA:  Communications, journalism.  I shouldn't have said that.  See me after. 
Q.  Your parents are back in California?

BECKY LUCIDA: Yes.
Q.  What do they do?

BECKY LUCIDA:  They are building a horse facility right now, equestrian center. 
Q.  Are you a jumper?

BECKY LUCIDA: No, my mom. My mom pretty much is the only horseperson.  Really, me, for fun I do it whenever I can.  It's pretty time consuming.  It's like golf, you have to put in the time and plus there's an animal involved so you have to take care of that.
Q.  Where is this center?

BECKY LUCIDA: Poway.
Q.  Where?

BECKY LUCIDA: Suburb in north county San Diego. 
Q.  What are their names?

BECKY LUCIDA: Zip is my dad, nickname but he has been called that since he was 2 and Lisa. 
Q.  You have spoken to them since?

BECKY LUCIDA: No, I haven't called them yet because they said they wanted to watch it unfold on TV.
Q.  What time -- oh it's on time delay out there?

BECKY LUCIDA: Yes, probably pretty soon. 
Q.  During the presentation you had some really nice words for Ed, calling him a second father.  Why do you feel that way; you have only known him how many days?

BECKY LUCIDA: Five days, and just you know, when you meet somebody you just click, it was a partnership out there as a team all week, and we didn't really hit a shot until we both agreed, and he's the same age as my dad.  He's just like a father figure, a good hugger. 
Q.  Obviously I mean, it's a lot to entrust in someone you know as far as if they are -- I mean pulling clubs things like that for you?

BECKY LUCIDA: Reading putts.

Q.  To do all that obviously you have a lot of stock in what he had to say?

BECKY LUCIDA: Yeah, well, I trust the guy and he has been here for 42, 43 years, I mean, 41 years, excuse me.  I mean, that says enough right there.  Just the caliber of guy he is. You can just tell.  What you see is what you get.  He wouldn't fail you. 
Q.  Just from a U.S.C level, does this sort of elevate your status at USC?

BECKY LUCIDA: I hope so. 
Q.  Have you heard from the coach?

BECKY LUCIDA: Yeah, she's left me a couple of messages.  We are out in the sticks, so I haven't been able to get much reception.  Yesterday --after I  finished my third match or my fourth match there was 14 messages and yesterday there was 24 and I haven't listened to them yet so I can't even imagine how many are on them now.  But   ---
Q.  24 messages on your phone after a win?

BECKY LUCIDA: Yesterday.  24 new ones really about 38. 
Q.  Want to check your total now?

BECKY LUCIDA: I don't even want to. 

Q.  You haven't checked yesterday's yet?

BECKY LUCIDA: No, because we were driving and we lost reception.
 Q.  Talk about your confidence heading into this year, it's got to be -- I mean, in the college season it's got to be great?

BECKY LUCIDA: It is.  Going into my senior year I mean I have never won a college tournament yet and winning this, I mean, it gives you enormous confidence that you know what if I can win this, I can win a college tournament.  Those are definitely some of my goals to be the top collegiate player in my last year. 
Q.  I am interested in your focus.  Truthfully at the Women's Amateur public links you do seem to horse around more.  And this week you have -- I haven't seen you do that.

BECKY LUCIDA: No.  Maybe it's because deep down I knew I could win, and the public links I guess I had too many close friends there and we had not too many times we were  -- we were unsupervised too much, maybe, and there was a bar at the place.  But no, regardless.  You know, I don't know, I just -- this week was different, and I just focused on golf this week and   ---
Q.  You think you grew up a little bit?

BECKY LUCIDA: Yeah, I do. 
Q.  Why have you not won a college tournament?

BECKY LUCIDA: Why haven't I?  Several  -- it was confidence, lack of -- I just -- I -- recently this summer I changed my putting stroke dramatically.  I switched  putters. I got a lesson down in Scotty Cameron's and I got a putter fit to my stroke, and according to my new stroke and that's helped me immensely.  I have worked on my putting pretty solidly for the last month and a half, and I think that's what was holding me back before, it was my putting.  And now that I have that, you know, like you said before, I have a lot more confidence now.  I think just having that will enabled me to win more tournaments in college. 
Q.  So you went to Scotty Cameron's studio?

BECKY LUCIDA: Yes.
Q.  You got fitted?

BECKY LUCIDA: Correct.
Q.  Tweaked your stroke as well?

BECKY LUCIDA: Yeah, they made it correct. 
Q.  I take it you are using a Scotty Cameron putter?

BECKY LUCIDA: Yes, I am.
Q.  What were your impressions of this venue this course?  Would you like to see -- would it be a good course to have another USGA event at?

BECKY LUCIDA: This is a true test of golf, I really think that.  I remember calling my dad Sunday night and right before stroke-play started and he said, well, how do you feel?  I said, well, I am really nervous.  This is a difficult golf course.  I just played two practice rounds, and it was hot, and humid, and lots of hills, and you know, it's not a short golf course by any means.  Once you get to the green that's not even half the battle you still have to put it in the hole; that's the hardest part out here.  I think that having a golf course like this for a USGA Championship it definitely is a true test of golf so you get to see the best players and how they perform underneath those circumstances and conditions. 
Q.  Even a little bit more, a little bit sweeter because of some of the people you knocked off are decent match players?

BECKY LUCIDA: I definitely -- I had some good matches out there against some good players so that makes it taste a little sweeter. 
Q.  Back to school?

BECKY LUCIDA: 26th.
RHONDA GLENN: Congratulations. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT