NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS vs WARRIORS
June 7, 2018
Tristan Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What is the mindset of this team right now after last night?  
TRISTAN THOMPSON: We definitely gave ourselves a chance.  Put ourselves in a position to win the ballgame.  Obviously, we had some mental collapses in the fourth quarter.  We put three quarters together really well.   
The fourth quarter we had some slippage in terms of two guys running to the corner and leaving Steph open.  So obviously that hurts.  But at the end of the day we've got to move forward and one game at a time.  One game at a time.   
 Q.  You guys have talked about having the blueprint to beat this team, and you've come close.  How frustrating is it to get close and find yourself down 3-0?  
TRISTAN THOMPSON: It's definitely tough.  But like you said, we've got a blueprint.  We definitely watched what Houston did.  We just had mental breakdowns, a couple mishaps where this team, like I said from day one, they capitalize on teams' screw-ups.   
So we've got to find a way in the fourth quarter to limit that.  Whether our guys are fatigued or whatever, you've still got to keep the brain working and you have to dig deep.  Because this team, in order to beat them, you have to have a lot of willpower, and it's going to take a lot of energy.  You've got to be able to find it, and wherever you're going to take it from, whether your spirit or your stomach, you've got to bring it out and be able to do it.   
 Q.  What was the physicality in Game 3 like?  Can you describe the play where the double technical happened and sort of what that was like for you?  
TRISTAN THOMPSON: You know, you're the only one that asks me about all that physical stuff.  It's cool, though.  Like I've said, it's The Finals.  Two guys both want it, and I love it.  I love the physicality.  I love the two techs.  It's well worth it, and that's what we need.   
So that's what I try to bring to this team, give it a little spark and energy, so I love it.  It helps me sleep better at night when it's physical.   
 Q.  What was particularly impressive about Kevin Durant last night that got to you guys?  
TRISTAN THOMPSON: At the end of the day, Kevin Durant's going to go down as probably one of the best scorers this game has ever seen.  The way he can score the ball in so many different ways.  With him being 7-foot and being able to do that is remarkable.   
Big-time players have big-time moments.  We've seen LeBron have big moments in The Finals, and right now we're witnessing K.D., who was able to will his team to victory with Steph and Klay not having the greatest games.  He was able to put the team on his back and lead them to a victory.   
 Q.  What is the biggest challenge coming into Game 4?  
TRISTAN THOMPSON: The challenge is we've got to leave it all out there.  At the end of the day, there are no guarantees.  We know the situation.  It's either win or go home.  So we've got to leave it all out there and represent and do it for our fans.   
 Q.  What can you take from you guys coming back from 3-1 a couple years ago that can help you in this situation?  
TRISTAN THOMPSON: I mean, it's only four guys that have been in that situation.  So obviously we just take it one game at a time, and that's how you have to view it.  One game at a time, leave it all out there and live with the results.   
So if we can do that and put ourselves in a position like we did yesterday and pull out the W and keep this series going longer, that's all we can ask for.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT