NBA FINALS: CLEVELAND VS GOLDEN STATE
June 6, 2017
Tristan Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Because it's KD over there this year does the mountain feel any bigger than it was?  The deficit's the same, but --
TRISTAN THOMPSON: No, no.  Like I said, getting KD they lost some other good pieces that they had.  So at the end of the day this is the team that they have, they got Kevin and he's been playing well for them, but we can play better.  We can still play better and we know we can and we're going to have to do that tomorrow.
Q. There's some debate whether you guys are better off pushing the pace, trying to match them in terms of the pace they would like to play at or maybe slowing it down.  Do you have a feeling on either of those two?
TRISTAN THOMPSON: No, I think that if we get stops on the defensive end and limit their offensive rebound kickouts for the threes, when we push it at them -- if you watch the games, if we push it at them and we space the floor and give Bron and Kyrie room to penetrate, especially with their second unit, when McGee is not in the game they don't have shot blockers, so that's in our favor when we're pushing the tempo and attacking the rim.
Q. It seems like in each game you guys have fallen behind early and Ty has tried to get more shooters on the floor.  What do you guys think about that and your ability to contribute when you're starting from behind?
TRISTAN THOMPSON: If you're down 10 or 15 you got to go with the offense, you need points scored on the board.  So all I can do is, when I'm out there, is just do my job and play hard and compete and play with the energy and play good enough defense where the game is not, we're not down by 10.
Q. You guys haven't played at home since May 23rd.  How much of a jump start do you think this crowd will give you?
TRISTAN THOMPSON: We know they're going to be excited, the energy's going to be at full tilt.  They have our back and they're definitely going to energize us and we got to feed off that, we got to give them the same energy back.  We got to come out and set the tone early, especially on our home court.  Got to defend The Land.
Q. You look through the box scores, the so-called role players haven't contributed as much as you might expect.  Does that change at home?  Do you think that home crowd helps yourself, JR, Deron?
TRISTAN THOMPSON: Every game's different.  Every game is different.  Of course myself, JR and Deron we know we played enough basketball that we know that if we're playing at a high level and we're playing, if we're playing well, that's good for our team.  So I don't want to put too much pressure in terms of our role guys, you have to do this, you have to do that.  Just go out and play, go out and play and have fun and do what we have been doing.  I know what I have to do out there, JR knows what he's got to do, Channing, RJ, we know what we got to bring to the table for our team to be successful.  We got to go out there and do it.  Doesn't stress, don't over think it.  I think when you start doing that, then you put too much pressure on yourself and you start doing things -- just go play.
Q. Do you find that role players tend to play better at home and what's behind that?  Like why is that?
TRISTAN THOMPSON: I don't know if it's true or not.  I don't know.  If I say that role players always play good at home and then I play [poorly], that knocks that out, right?  So I think it's every game's different, just go out and play.  And I guess you could say that at Golden State, if JaVale gets a big dunk or Zaza gets a reverse layup, the crowd goes crazy, so I guess the crowd enjoys when the role players get some easy buckets.
Q. You're going to be reading everywhere defend The Land, so is that going to be something that you're going to stick in your heart and your head during the game?
TRISTAN THOMPSON: Yeah, that's been our motto, our saying since for three years now, defend The Land.  This is our home court, we got to protect it, and we got to set the tone early.
Q. LeBron said that he just needs some food and some wine to feel better and what do you need to feel better for this game?
TRISTAN THOMPSON: What do I need to feel better about this game?
Q. Yes.
TRISTAN THOMPSON: I need tomorrow to get here, so I can go out there and play.  I'm ready to play.  I'm excited.  The food and wine after a game is always good for your soul, so I would have to agree with him.
Q. You take your performance, you have a lot of pride in how you play and it sounds like you're a little frustrated with what you've been able to get done the last couple games.
TRISTAN THOMPSON: Yeah, of course a little frustrated, because I like getting offensive rebounds, haven't been getting as much the last two games.  But it's a new game, you can't stress on the last two games.  I can't think about it, just got to go out there and be greedy and just see ball, get ball mentality and get back to that.
Q. The The Finals have been a great stage for you the last couple years, so you got to be optimistic.
TRISTAN THOMPSON: Yeah, that's how, that's -- you might have a couple of bad games but then you bounce back with a big game.  So, I can't wait for tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT