NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 18, 2016
Tristan Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Would you be surprised if LeBron went out for 41 points again?
TRISTAN THOMPSON: I wouldn't put a cap or a number on his performance tomorrow.  He's a great player.  Him and Kyrie, they were great for us last time here in Game 5.  Tomorrow we'll need everyone to do their job and play at a high level.
Q. All their defensive switching, it seems like you guys have created some pretty favorable matchups.  You've got Curry trying to guard LeBron in a lot of situations.  I think there was one situation where he was even trying to guard you down low.  Are you guys purposely trying to make him work extra hard on the defensive end?
TRISTAN THOMPSON: Not just him.  I think it's everyone on their team.  You guys know how talented that team is as a whole.  We want to attack, try to find mismatches.  They do a great job on the offensive end of attacking.  We want to do the same thing to them.
Q. How would you characterize the mood of the team right now?
TRISTAN THOMPSON: Feel good.  We've worked hard to get ourselves back to this situation.  It's one game left.  One game of basketball.  The crowd is going to be crazy and have a lot of energy.  They're going to play pissed off.  We know that.  So we've got to be ready to play.
Q. You were on the end of some lovely passes from LeBron in Game 6.  Talk a bit about his court vision and awareness to find you on those cuts?
TRISTAN THOMPSON: He's a very good playmaker.  You guys know that.  Since he's been in the NBA, he's always found ways to find his teammates and make tough passes and just get guys involved.  That's one of his gifts.
Q. It seems like a fair point of emphasis for you guys to be physical with them on the cutters and cutting through the lane.  Could you talk about that and how important that is with Golden State's movement?
TRISTAN THOMPSON: We want to put a body on them.  You guys saw in the OKC series whenever they're cutting, whether it's Steven Adams, [Serge] Ibaka, we're just trying to do the same thing.  Always put a body on their guards or even their bigs.  However we can wear them down, tag cutters, that's what we need to do.
Q. Did you ever have a moment growing up thinking about what it would be like to be playing in a Game 7, maybe taking that game-winning shot, anything like that?
TRISTAN THOMPSON: Or get that offensive rebound [Laughing]?  No, growing up as a kid, definitely you live for these moments.  I've been to a Game 7 personally, been there, watched it.  Now being a part of it, it's pretty amazing.  It's what you work for as a kid.  All those extra drills, running outside, suicides, 17s, all those drills that you hated and had to do.  But for moments like this, it's like, you know what, it's all worth it.
Q. It must seem like a long way between now and 5 p.m. tomorrow.  What do you do to keep yourself occupied?
TRISTAN THOMPSON: Treatment and watch film, treatment and watch film.  Just get your body ready.  It's going to be a dogfight.  The whole team's going to come out with everything they've got.  It's the last game of the year.  There is no Game 8.  There is nothing like that.  It's the last game of basketball for the whole NBA season.  You've got to give everything you've got in the tank and just leave it out there.
Q. So it's all business for you.  It's all basketball.  You don't do anything to take your mind off what's going on tomorrow night?
TRISTAN THOMPSON: No.  You're here to play a ballgame and put yourself in position to win.  That's all that matters.  If I'm not thinking about the game or doing stuff to get myself ready, I'll probably be eating some food.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT