NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 15, 2016
Tristan Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How do you get Kevin going?  
TRISTAN THOMPSON: Get Kevin going?  Well, Kevin, if you look at the film, he was great defensively.  He was making plays.  Sometimes the bigs, you do great things that might not show up in the boxscore, but that's part of the game, whatever it takes to win.  I guess our last game he might not have had the big points, but he definitely impacted the game.   
 Q.  I realized he hasn't played a ton of minutes, but how different will it be without Bogut being available?  
TRISTAN THOMPSON: He's been great for them.  He's a rim protector in the NBA.  So guys attacking the rim and him just being there and being a presence, it definitely makes you cautious of where he is and aware of his shot-blocking ability.   
But they have guys that are going to step up.  They have Ezeli, who's played hard.  Andy's made those energy plays, and McAdoo, the young kid.  So I know it's a big loss for them, but they've still got guys that are ready to step up and play for them.   
 Q.  Do you expect them to go small more often?  And if they do, what kind of challenges does that bring?  
TRISTAN THOMPSON: Well, like you said, Bogut starts the game, but during the course of the game they tend to go small, so it's no change for us.  It's the same thing.  They're going to go small with Draymond at the, quote, unquote, five, so we have to be ready for that matchup.  We've dealt with it all series.   
 Q.  Tristan, little bit of a sidebar question:  You guys wore the black jerseys.  Who decided that?  Do you think it had any effect on the team?  
TRISTAN THOMPSON: No.  I like the black jerseys though.  They're pretty cool.  But it was in my locker, so got to throw it on.  Can't rebel, right?  You want to play, you got to put the jersey on.   
 Q.  What did you notice from your point of view the work you're doing in the paint, et cetera, with Draymond out?  You were able to get your 15 rebounds, et cetera, et cetera, did you kind of notice him not being there, if you know what I mean?  
TRISTAN THOMPSON: Did I miss him not in the game?   
 Q.  Yeah.  Were the dynamics of what you were doing different without him there?  
TRISTAN THOMPSON: Well, no.  I mean, I know he's almost a do-it-all player for them.  He rebounds, scores and assists, but when they go small and LeBron -- usually he's on LeBron when LeBron's posting up or LeBron's attacking, I usually have Barnes or Iguodala trying to box me out anyway, so it doesn't make a difference for me.  But of course him not playing was definitely a big key and they definitely miss him, but he's back now.  So I know he's going to play with a chip on his shoulder and with a lot of energy.   
 Q.  You guys had your stars step up in the last game.  Do you need more balance at home and do you expect to get that?  
TRISTAN THOMPSON: In the Playoffs, guys are going to step up in big moments and play great.  Last game, Kyrie and LeBron put the team on their back and had a historical performance.  At home, you don't know whose night it could be.  Tomorrow it could be K Love and J.R. that go crazy and score a lot of points.  That's just how the Playoffs are.  Any night any guy could step up and score a lot of points or grab a lot of rebounds.  That's what makes our team so dangerous.  We have guys that could step up at any moment and put up big numbers.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT