NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 7, 2016
Tristan Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What's most important for you guys as you regroup after some tough losses there?  
TRISTAN THOMPSON: I think just looking back at the film, we've just got to compete.  Also with that, we've got to play smart.  I think there were a couple of possessions, actually a lot of possessions, where we made mental errors, and that's on us.  Going back to the film, we see that and those things that we can get better at.  And I believe we will, especially being home and just with our crowd.  That's what we have to do.   
 Q.  What kind of mental errors were pointed out?  
TRISTAN THOMPSON: Just when they, Iguodala or Klay or Steph come together on the split action, we've just got to communicate and talk.  Whether we're going to switch it or fight over it, we've just got to communicate.  When you talk on the court on the defensive end, it can cover a couple mistakes you might make.  That's what we have to do.   
 Q.  After Game 1, Coach said he wanted to play faster.  Is that still the strategy here, playing faster, or might it shift to going bigger?  
TRISTAN THOMPSON: We definitely want to push the tempo.  We've got great athletes.  We've got guys that get out in transition with Kyrie and LeBron, and if you've got [J.R. Smith] on the wing or Channing and [Richard Jefferson], they can knock down shots.  That's a strength of ours.  We've got to use that, but more importantly, we've got to get stops.  If you don't get stops on the defensive end, you can't push the pace.   
 Q.  I know you're a big, but what's happened at the three-point line for you guys?  I know, that was a strong point for you.  
TRISTAN THOMPSON: We're home now.  It goes like that sometimes when you don't make shots.  But we've got guys that are capable of getting real hot quickly.  We're home now.  It's our net.  We're used to it.  Guys got a lot of extra shots up today, and hopefully they can knock them down.   
 Q.  What kind of pressure comes with being 0-2 in a best-of-seven series?  
TRISTAN THOMPSON: We're home.  They're undefeated at home [the Warriors are 11-1 in the playoffs at home] and we're undefeated at home [7-0 in the playoffs].  So we can win games at home, and that's what we're going to try to do tomorrow.   
 Q.  Have you ever seen such a difference between home and away?  It seems like this year for both teams it's so huge.  
TRISTAN THOMPSON: It's part of the Playoffs.  A lot of teams play better on their home floor.  On the road, it's a little tougher just because of the crowd and the dynamics of the Playoffs.  But we're happy to be home, and we're excited about tomorrow.   
 Q.  How much film do you watch on a regular basis now?  
TRISTAN THOMPSON: All Playoff series.  Film doesn't lie.  You can see everything.  You can see your mistakes, your energy level.  For me, I think it's crucial, especially it's The Finals now.  You have nothing else to do, so why not watch film and lock in and give your all to the team so you can be the best you can be.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT