NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 13, 2015
Tristan Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How much does the fact you guys have seven, eight guys, how much has that really taken its toll on you guys, the fatigue factor?   
TRISTAN THOMPSON:   I don't think we're going to use the fatigue factor as something that's hurting us right now.   I think we have two days off and guys are going to get their rest and be ready to play.   
But at this point in the season, this is Game 101 or whatnot, so there is no excuse to use fatigue as a factor.   There is a week and change left of basketball.   You have to give it all you've got and have the rest of the summer to help you relax.  
   
 Q.   Does the (indiscernible) help at all?   
TRISTAN THOMPSON:   I think it helps.   Everyone, both teams, guys that play heavy minutes.   We've got guys that have played a lot of minutes, myself, Delly, LeBron, of course.   But they have guys on their side that have played a lot of minutes.   
So it helps both teams.   It gives both teams time to recover and get their mind locked in and back ready for Game 5.  
   
 Q.   Will there be a deeper rotation in the next game?   
TRISTAN THOMPSON:   I don't know.   That's a Coach Blatt question to ask.   For me, it's just come in with however many minutes I play, come in, play hard and do my job.  
   
 Q.   How about the mental grind?   How are you handling that so far?   
TRISTAN THOMPSON:   I've been handling it really good.   I'm handling it fine.   Just got to stay locked in.   We've had a lot of mental breakdowns last game.   Couple of offensive rebounds, it led to Steph creating a three and Harrison Barnes the putback down.   So all those little mental errors are things we can't have going into Game 5.  
   
 Q.   How do you feel you're doing on the offensive glass and creating second‑chance points?   It turns out whoever has had the more offensive boards or second‑chance points has actually lost the game in the series.   
TRISTAN THOMPSON:   That's a weird stat right there.  
   
 Q.   Right.   
TRISTAN THOMPSON:   Well, I'm going to keep it in the glass because that's my strength.   So that is a weird stat.   But for us, especially with myself and Timo out there, if they're going to go small like they did last game, we've got to hit the glass to give ourselves a second chance and really put pressure on their bigs, the guys that they have guarding us.  
   
 Q.   It took a while for their rebounding of the Cavs to kind of catch up with the rebounding of the in Game 4, but when it did, guys overtook them, yet you guys fell short in terms of obviously the game.   What do you think needs to happen in this game aside from the boards (indiscernible)?  
TRISTAN THOMPSON:   Besides that, just quick returns and then also just you have Iguodala, you have Harrison Barnes, they made big plays in Game 4.   They made shots.   Iguodala was 8‑for‑15 or he shot a really good percentage, especially from three.   
So we've just got to run guys off the line and free Iguodala.   A late contest.   He had a lot of open threes.   We've got to at least contest and kind of just throw him off a little bit, and hopefully he misses.  
   
 Q.   When you look at the film, what was the secret for their small ball lineup to have success against you guys?   Was it mostly just not being able to get back in transition as well?   
TRISTAN THOMPSON:   I think just having our bigs being in different positions.   We had Timo guarding Iguodala, that's something he's not used to being in the bigs.   So it's good for him to watch film, and he can watch film and learn the positions of where guards have to be in terms of rotations when you do go against a team that's playing small ball.   
But with them going small, they want to push the pace and get a higher scoring match, and that's what they did and that's one of their strengths.   So we have to be able to stop that and get back on defense.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT