NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 10, 2015
Tristan Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You guys have done an unreal job of shutting down Draymond Green.   How have you been able to do that? 
TRISTAN THOMPSON:   Just make it difficult for him.   Draymond has a high motor, one of the best motors in the business.   So for us bigs we take the challenge to just make it tough for him.   He does a little bit of everything.   We're going to try to make him uncomfortable.   Timo's doing one hell of a job against him, especially in last night's game.

Q.   How are you beating the Warriors to the offensive rebound? 
TRISTAN THOMPSON:   That's what I'm here to do.   That's why I'm in the game, just to bring that energy, to try to get extra possessions.   But really just hitting the glass every possession. 
Some guys in this league will pick and choose their times to attack the glass.   For me, it's just going every time.   So I might not get it like four or five times.   That might be that one possession that we need to get us over the top.

Q.   Is that something you guys chart? 
TRISTAN THOMPSON:   Yeah, we take a lot of pride in it.   Our coaching staff preaches keep attacking the glass (indiscernible) tire them out.   And that's what I do for this team.

Q.   How are you guys handling the fatigue of just playing so many minutes back‑to‑back because you know you have a game tomorrow? 
TRISTAN THOMPSON:   There's no more basketball after this.   Everyone's tired, from the coaching staff to 1 through 15, it's been a long season.   But you can't have fatigue be (indiscernible) right now.   You have to do what you have to do to get ready for the next game.   Whether it's treatment, cold tub.   Shoot, I'm 24, I ain't got no excuses, no excuse.

Q.   Knowing at the end of Game 4 and you go back to Golden State up 3‑1 or tied 2‑2, what do you expect from Golden State? 
TRISTAN THOMPSON:   They're going to come out with everything they've got.   They don't want to go home being down 3‑1.   They want to get a win and make it best out of three.   So we know coming in we've got to be ready for whatever they throw at us. 
They're going to come out very aggressive.   Especially Curry.   In the fourth quarter he got on a roll and got his confidence going, so he's going to be feeling good, really good.   So we've got to come out and play our style of basketball, make it ugly, and take care of home court.

Q.   Do you consider this probably the biggest game of your career? 
TRISTAN THOMPSON:   Oh, sure, definitely the biggest game.   Definitely by far.   Especially just because we want to win the game and go up 3‑1.   We've got to go out, ready to play, locked in, focused.

Q.   Andrew Bogut hasn't taken a lot of shots.   How concerned are you of him as an offensive threat when you're out there? 
TRISTAN THOMPSON:   He's a threat.   They run that (indiscernible) play for him at least once a game.   So we're trying to take that away.   But he's a big body.   So we've got to keep him off the glass and take him out of the game offensively.   We've definitely got to take (indiscernible) and keep doing that.

Q.   Are you concerned if there is enough left in the tank when you hear about Delly going to the hospital, and of course Iman dealing with the shoulder issue last night? 
TRISTAN THOMPSON:   Warriors got enough left in the tank.   (Indiscernible) if you think we're down and out, we seem to find a way to come out and keep performing.   So Delly's a Warrior.   He's a fighter.   Whether he's in the hospital or whatever it is, he's going to come out and fight. 
And same with Shump.   Shump checked out of the game, came back in and fought.   We've come too far now to lay down and quit.   So we're going to give it everything we've got.

Q.   You got switched onto Steph Curry on a couple pick‑and‑rolls late in the game.   Was that on purpose to take away David Lee's short roles to the basket, or was that something you kind of improvised on the fly?
TRISTAN THOMPSON:   No, (indiscernible) series there are a lot of times we start on Klay and stuff.   It's Coach's confidence, especially in late situations, switch out on them (indiscernible) get tough twos and (indiscernible). 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT