NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 6, 2015
Tristan Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Now that Kyrie is gone, people are anticipating LeBron's going to be more of a facilitator.   Does that help your job as far as grabbing offensive rebounds and spacing out the floor?   
TRISTAN THOMPSON:   Well, all year LeBron has been a facilitator at times.   Him and Kyrie really kind of split duties, just depends on the course of the game and how teams are playing them.   
For us, I guess it does put myself and Timo in a position to grab more rebounds because LeBron's going to be kind of the floor general, creating for guys and getting guys open.   But we'll be ready.  
   
 Q.   It seems like during the playoffs, and especially Game 1, there were a lot more iso situations.   Do you think that now that will change and we'll see more ball movement offense?   
TRISTAN THOMPSON:   I guess with Delly in or whoever we may add into the starting lineup, there's going to be a little more ball movement just because of the guys we have on the court.   When we're moving the ball and we're sharing it and screening for each other, pinning away, we're tough to guard.   
So we've made our adjustments.   But also, at the same time, if LeBron's on the block, that's almost your best bet right there.  
   
 Q.   LeBron just said a few moments ago if it was regular season he could play 48 minutes, but at The Finals pace that's not being fair to the team or to himself to expect to play 48.   He could play 40, 41, 42.   Could you put into words what that Finals pace is and how intense it is compared to earlier playoff rounds?   
TRISTAN THOMPSON:   By the third quarter, middle of the third quarter, I was feeling a little fatigued.   I've never really said that before.  
   
 Q.   Never?   
TRISTAN THOMPSON:   Yeah, never.   So this is definitely a pace that I've never experienced.   But at the same time, I'm going to give everything I've got and continue to just give a full effort.  
   
 Q.   You were matched up a lot with Draymond Green who is known for being kind of a junkyard dog type.   Does that bring anything out of you, a guy that's built on hustle and that's his game, and you having to go up against that and kind of outwork him?   
TRISTAN THOMPSON:   No.   All year you could say he's a junkyard dog.   I've been a junkyard dog since I came in this league.   That's my job no matter who I'm matched up against.   I'm going to come in and try to outwork them.   My mentality is being the hardest working guy on the court, no matter who I'm matched up against.   I want to work harder than everyone else on the court.   Harder than the refs, harder than my teammates.   That's just my mentality.   It's not really about who I'm matched up against.   
I definitely give Draymond credit.   He's a high‑motor guy.   But at the same time I refuse to let anyone else on the court work harder than me.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT