NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 5, 2015
Tristan Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Tristan, you guys were outrebounding them pretty handily early in the game last night, and then it shifted.   What changed and how do you combat that in Game 2? 
TRISTAN THOMPSON:   I think in the third quarter, beginning of the third, they won a stretch where I think they got two offensive rebounds and I think it was Iguodala hit a three in the corner.   As a big, I take responsibility, myself and Timo, we've got to control the glass. 
If you look at all our previous games, when we win the rebounding match, we win games.   So that's something that we've got to do better next game, and that's on the bigs.

Q.   With Kyrie's health, do you feel the need to score more or change something offensively going into Game 2? 
TRISTAN THOMPSON:   I don't think I have to go out searching for areas for me to score, I think that just comes with the game.   This whole season in the playoffs, no plays have ever been run from me, but I was able to still put double‑doubles up.   Maybe it was just grabbing some offensive rebounds and going up with it. 
But the way I score is within the offense.   I'm not the type of player that I need plays called for me for me to score offensively.   I just do my job and the scoring will come.

Q.   You switched out on Curry a couple times out of the three.   Could you tell me a little bit about that and what you're trying to do when you're out there? 
TRISTAN THOMPSON:   Regarding Curry on late‑clock situation, force him into taking a tough two.   You know, he's a great three‑point shooter, and twos are better than threes, especially for a player like him.   Once he makes a couple threes, you know, he can make it from anywhere on the court. 
So just trying to make it tough for him and have him take contested twos, and just make it difficult for him.

Q.   You've been in front of Kyrie, I'm sure, in practice as a switch defender; now you're in front of Curry at times.   How would you compare their devastating handles to one another? 
TRISTAN THOMPSON:   It's tough.   It's tough.   They're probably the two best ball handlers in our league, and just the way they're able to change directions and change pace, it's at a high level.   But for me I'm fortunate to be able to go against Kyrie in practice for the last four years.   So when I am guarding Steph, I'm feeling a little good.   Obviously he's a very crafty guy.   I think he got me in overtime on the pump fake, which he drew two fouls. 
So I've just got to stay on my feet, use my length, and, like I said, make him take tough twos.

Q.   How would you describe the psyche of the team right now? 
TRISTAN THOMPSON:   Feeling much better than last night.   After watching the film and Coach talking to us and really breaking down the game in different parts, we had a couple mental lapses, or, like I said earlier, in the third quarter where we gave up a couple offensive rebounds.   It was just those little possessions, those key moments that can change the game. 
So we've just got to be better at doing the little things.   I think when it comes to The Finals, the team that executes the little things the best usually will win. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT