NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 3, 2015
Tristan Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You guys have known that Cleveland as a sports town hasn't won a championship since like '64, and LeBron of course going for a title.   Is there a lot of pressure on you guys to win this Finals?   
TRISTAN THOMPSON:   I don't think it's pressure.   I think it's actually more patience.   Like you said, the city of Cleveland has been through ups and downs in terms of professional sports with the Indians (indiscernible) the World Series and LeBron's leaving and Baltimore wins, and for Cleveland being in The Finals, I think it was '07, and LeBron now back.   Definitely had ups and downs, but that just motivates us more to do it for them and do it for northeast Ohio.  
   
 Q.   How well do you know Draymond Green, as far as just bringing energy?   
TRISTAN THOMPSON:   Well, I think that's a talent to just bring energy.   A lot of guys in this league that can have high motors and are able to do that for the course of 48 minutes.   And Draymond for his team definitely is a spark for them and a huge factor and huge part of the team.   
So for me, it's going to be a great match‑up.   Watching film and studying what he's good at and what he brings to the table, just got to be prepared for tomorrow night.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
TRISTAN THOMPSON:   Yeah, it's definitely a key factor.   At the same time you've got to make sure (indiscernible).   We've got to make it tough for them.   And for their other guys, they've just got to have them do things they're not comfortable doing, whether it's shooting or having three‑point shots or being decision‑makers.   
We've kind of just got to make everyone on the court feel uncomfortable and play a style of basketball they're not used to playing.  
   
 Q.   What does it mean getting to these Finals and playing with a guy like LeBron James?   
TRISTAN THOMPSON:   It's very exciting.  
   
 Q.   Professionally for you.   You're still young.   
TRISTAN THOMPSON:   Yeah, it's been a whirlwind just in one year, just in terms of the media attention and in terms of getting everyone's best game every night.   We're here at the top of the mountain now.   It's two teams facing off, and it's one of the best teams in the world.  
   
 Q.   What do you make about playing here in Oakland?   A lot of people talk about how this is the best atmosphere for fans in the NBA and the Warriors and what they bring to the table?  
TRISTAN THOMPSON:   So you're saying they're the best in the NBA?   
   
 Q.   That's what's been said.   
TRISTAN THOMPSON:   You haven't been to Cleveland, Ohio, Quicken Loans Arena.   So they have great fans, but I'm always going to vote for my team that we have the best fans in the NBA.   
But they've got a great fan base.   They're very into the game.   They're very passionate.   And that's what it balances on, everyone being into it (indiscernible).   I know tomorrow's going to be extra loud.  
   
 Q.   I know you talked about the match‑up and the energy that Draymond Green brings to the floor, and that's your forte as well.   Can you talk about the importance of getting on the glass and the second‑chance points and eliminating on the defensive end?   
TRISTAN THOMPSON:   That's my job, to create extra possessions for my teammates and for my team.   And Draymond does the same thing for his team.   So the key is definitely controlling the glass and controlling defensive boards because those are two skills that can definitely deflate your defense.   
If the team has offensive rebounding in the first 24, it's definitely playing into your defense.   So it's not just myself.   It's Timo, LeBron, Shump.   We've all got to rebound collectively and keep them off the glass.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT