NBA FINALS: CLEVELAND VS GOLDEN STATE
June 8, 2017
Tristan Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Sounded like you all didn't get much of a chance to talk after the game last night.  Ty didn't address the team, Bron kind of said that he went home to get some sleep and process it all.  Where do you guys feel like you're at today?  
TRISTAN THOMPSON: Looking at the film, we competed.  We played hard.  Kev, LeBron and Kyrie and J.R., they left it all out there.  We had a few mistakes.  Fouling in the penalty.  Those are kind of some things that we have to cut back on.  And helping off shooters.  There was one possession -- Zaza rolling, and we help off Klay, and he knocks a corner three.  Just those little mistakes.  If we can clean that up, the outcome would have been different.   
 Q.  You guys always say that you're tougher on yourselves than even the outside voices.  Where are you at right now?  It's been a tough few games.  
TRISTAN THOMPSON: Yeah, it's been tough.  Watching myself personally on the film and seeing how I was defensively, that's a positive.  In all these games, you can look at what areas you've done well and keep building off that.  That's what I'm going to do.   
With the Finals, you have to have a short memory.  You can't just keep thinking about the past.  So tomorrow, Game 4, we have to leave it all on the line.   
 Q.  We all know the math, you guys know the math of the you can't win four games at once.  What do you have to tell yourself?  
TRISTAN THOMPSON: One game at a time.  One game at a time.  The game in front of you.  Win Friday.  Win Friday.  And then you can ask me that question Saturday.  So win Friday.   
 Q.  The way they're choosing to handle you, in terms of just kind of walling you off, the guards go after the boards.  Is there anything at all unique about that approach?  Is that something you've seen over the course of the season?  
TRISTAN THOMPSON: I haven't seen it too much.  They're doing a good job of sending two guys -- Zaza and Draymond boxing me out.  But then it frees it up for Kevin [Love].  You saw Kevin in the second half, what did he have?  About three or four offensive rebounds in big times of the games?  If they're keeping me off the glass, that means it's going to open up for Kevin.  And if Kevin is getting the rebound and going up and finishing, it's still a plus for us.  So even though I might not be getting the rebound, if Kev is getting it and he's scoring with it, I'm happy.   
 Q.  Is this team inspired by the challenge?  No team has come back from 3-0 down in NBA history.  You guys have the possibility of creating history.  
TRISTAN THOMPSON: Tomorrow's another opportunity for us to go out on our court and win a ball game.  We know what's on the line.  We know how important this game is.  We're going to come out and give everything we got.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT