US OPEN
August 28, 2002
Alex Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Questions.  
 
 
Q.  Frustrating obviously.  I know you wanted that tiebreaker pretty badly. 
 
ALEX KIM:  It wasn't really the tiebreaker.  I wanted that Love-40 game.  I guess he was serving 3-5  -- no, 4-5.  First I played a weak game with the new balls at 5-3 serving for the third.  I was upset about that.  But I was still  -- I don't know, somehow in the back of my mind, I thought I would have a chance to break him back at 4-5, and I did.  He missed that easy forehand.  That was my chance.  Backhand passing shot that was pretty routine.  I was really disappointed I missed it.  The breaker, yeah, I knew going into it, playing a guy with a serve like Greg's, my chances weren't good.  But it was basically that game when I was up Love-40, pretty disappointing. 
 
Q.  In the beginning of the fourth set, you had two or three of those backhand passes perfectly.  At one point you stopped there.  Where was that? 
 
ALEX KIM:  Exactly.  I needed that last set.  What can you do?  
 
Q.  You didn't have the easiest draw here. 
 
ALEX KIM:  No.  I was supposed to play Canas.  I was definitely not looking forward to that, to get Greg coming off his win in Indy, beating all those players.  But I was definitely not upset that Canas pulled out.  I think it was definitely a better match-up against Greg than with Canas.  Obviously, after he beat guys like Hewitt and stuff, you know, not looking as good. 
 
Q.  You said you learned a lot when you played Agassi here a couple years ago.  Did going through the process this year, did it feel more normal as opposed to back then?
 
ALEX KIM:  Definitely.  I've come a long way since then.  You know, I know I can play with anybody.  It's that simple.  Definitely my experience two years ago, just being around, knowing your way around the site and stuff, the new facilities and everything.  Yeah, I mean, I was really prepared this week.  Maybe one year I'll get a better draw.  
 
Q.  Did you have anybody here to see you? 
 
ALEX KIM:  Some of my friends are working in the city from high school and from Stanford.  I think a couple of them came out.  My coaches were there in my box.  The fans were great.  I love playing.  I had a chance to practice in Louis Armstrong.  I think it's almost better than Arthur Ashe because the fans are right on top of you.  They are definitely very supportive. 
 
Q.  New York experiences this week?
 
ALEX KIM:  Yeah.  I'm staying in a friend's apartment on the upper east side.  It's really nice.  I think this year I really appreciate it more, how great a tournament it is.  After going to all the other tournaments throughout the year, yeah, I had a lot of fun out there.  
 
Q.  Are you staying at the apartment because it's a good way to cut costs?
 
ALEX KIM:  Well, you know, I think that's one thing.  You stay at hotels all year.  It's kind of a drag really.  Anytime you can sleep in a bed  -- I don't know, just a different atmosphere.  Whenever I get a chance, I always try and get like housing or something.  This opportunity came up, so I took it.  
 
Q.  Home cooking?
 
ALEX KIM:  No home cooking, unfortunately.  That was a little too much to ask.  It was just great to be out of a hotel for a week. 
 
Q.  What do you do now?
 
ALEX KIM:  I don't know.  I've got to get ready.  Definitely take a day off.  I've got to get ready for another tournament in Brazil which starts in a couple weeks.  You know, I'm going to go out, have some fun tonight, just keep going.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT