US OPEN
August 28, 2000
Alex Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MODERATOR: Questions for Alex. 

Q. So how was that? 

ALEX KIM: I mean, first of all, just being out there in the stadium, just walking out
there with Andre was just an unbelievable experience. In terms of the tennis, it was a
pretty bad experience (smiling). Andre just didn't give me an inch. I guess that's why
he's so great. 

Q. You did have your moments. Was there anything you could take out of hanging with him
on a few rallies?

ALEX KIM: Not really. I mean, he might have -- he missed a couple shots. But, you know,
I just felt like he was in control the whole time. Yeah, the first set was close through
the score, but I think even still, he was in control.

Q. What was sort of the most intense? Was it the lights? Was it the noise?

ALEX KIM: Mostly the crowd. I had practiced there a couple times during the week. You
know, that definitely helped me just get used to the surroundings. With all those people
in there, there was just so much electricity out there. 

Q. Your return game has been one of your weapons in college and on the Futures circuit.
You find yourself matched up with the best returners, with Connors. Are you sort of
learning from the master?

ALEX KIM: I was hitting pretty good first serves, in my opinion. He was just hitting
them back, you know, like twice as hard, and deep. You know, usually after I hit a good
first serve, I'm kind of able to control the point. After I hit a good first serve, I was
on the defensive, which I'm not used to. Yeah, I mean, he definitely sets the standard for
returns, and a lot of other stuff. 

Q. Long way from Palo Alto?

ALEX KIM: Oh, yeah. I was just sitting there in the third set, "Take me back to
Stanford." 

Q. Do you think you're going to end up going back?

ALEX KIM: You know, if I had to say today, you know, I would go back. But I'm going to
be playing a lot of tournaments in the fall. Hopefully I can get some points and we'll
see. 

Q. So there is a chance you'd play another year at Stanford; it's not out of the
question?

ALEX KIM: Definitely. Definitely. Like I said, if I had to decide today, I would go
back. But, you know, I'm also considering turning pro.

Q. Can you take us through the moment when you knew you got the wildcard into the
tournament, but when you found out you had matched up against Agassi? Did it seem like,
"of all guys"? 

ALEX KIM: You know, it was funny. I got picked up from the airport. The driver was
like, "Who you got?" I was like, "I don't know, they haven't made the draw
yet." He was like, "Do you care who you play?" I was like, "Yeah. I
just hope I could have a chance." He's like, "Well, what would happen if you
drew Andre?" I didn't want that, specifically Andre. I got in the locker room. Guys
were smiling and stuff. Then I found out. Yeah, it was quite a shock. You know, that's the
way the draw goes.

Q. Is it kind of a blessing and a curse, because you could have been playing 11 a.m. on
Court 13? Instead, you got a night match, 7:30 p.m.?

ALEX KIM: In that sense, it was great. It was a great experience. But, you know, I
thought if I had played someone else, you know, maybe at 11 a.m., another court, not quite
as good as Andre, I think I might have had a better chance. In that sense, it wasn't so
good. 

Q. Who all was in the box supporting you? You had a pretty good crowd. 

ALEX KIM: Yeah. It was actually some of my Stanford buddies and my high school buddies,
and my family, of course.

Q. Your parents?

ALEX KIM: Yeah, they were there. 

Q. Brothers and sisters?

ALEX KIM: Yeah, I think they were there. I have two sisters. I know I saw one of them
there.

Q. At least you know what it's like to play a big tournament against a great player.
There's a lot to be said for that. 

ALEX KIM: Exactly. But I would have maybe have liked to do it in the second round
(smiling). 

Q. Did you have some friends up top chanting, "Let's go, Alex." Did you know
them?

ALEX KIM: No. I mean, I couldn't see up there. You know, I wasn't really looking up
there. Probably just some fans, random fans. 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT