UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 3, 2012
Everett Golson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






Q.   Did you, immediately? 
EVERETT GOLSON:   Immediately.   I said that when I got in, and I heard the crowd cheering and stuff like that, it was a good feeling.

Q.   With everything that was going on not necessarily in your favor and all and you still pulled this thing out, how can you explain how you guys never lost confidence being down two possessions? 
EVERETT GOLSON:   To me, it's all God.   It's also my teammates.   I had a teammate in Robby Toma coming up to me saying, "Keep your head in the game."   Guys coming up and saying keep your head in the game.   That's just to name a few.   But a whole bunch of guys.   That's what I've really saw tonight was a whole bunch of guys really working together.

Q.   Going into double overtime, did you feel like there is no way we win at this point? 
EVERETT GOLSON:   I thought as far as our offense, I thought we had a big hop in our step, I guess.   The whole fifth quarter we definitely‑‑ I was proud of the team just coming out and utilizing and feeling we could get this win and coming together and doing it.

Q.   What happened after the quarterback sneak?   You disappeared there. 
EVERETT GOLSON:   Yeah, that's kind of a funny story.   I was talking to and I remember getting up and everybody was celebrating.   And our backs came up and was like good job, good job.   Yeah, we did it and whatnot.   And maybe three seconds later I was like, "All right, now get me out of here.   I've got to get out," because a whole bunch of people were swarming.

Q.   But can you talk about how it feels running down the field? 
EVERETT GOLSON:   Just excited, man.   Just excited that our team really came together tonight to pull off this win.

Q.   Because of the reviews and replays you never celebrate immediately anymore, were you at all concerned they might take it away? 
EVERETT GOLSON:   Not at all.   I felt like I was in.   I was pretty confident.

Q.   Did it give you an opportunity to kind of fight through struggles and not watch Tommy finish the game? 
EVERETT GOLSON:   I felt I needed it bad.   (Indiscernible).

Q.   Getting the game ball, what did you think you did to earn that tonight? 
EVERETT GOLSON:   I think I did a good job of being with the team down the stretch.   Coming out today, I know we came out a little flat.   As far as me personally, I missed a couple of reads that I should have had.   Instead of putting three points on the board, we put six. 
But I felt like down the stretch we came together, and I felt like I did a great job in the end.

Q.   The way you bounced back after the interception, can you talk about that? 
EVERETT GOLSON:   I can't really assess that.   I'm just really happy for my teammates.   Just trusting him and believing in him and being there for me.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
EVERETT GOLSON:   I think it was really immediate.   I'd like to think that this is what a team coming together and handling major adversity, and just coming together both offense and defense and the guys winning.

Q.   How were you able to handle it?   How were you not allowing yourself to get down when you easily could have? 
EVERETT GOLSON:   Like I said, just God and my teammates.   Like I said, my teammates were there through thick and thin for me tonight.   I felt like I had to talk to them.

Q.   Talk about your offensive line? 
EVERETT GOLSON:   Offensive line did a great job tonight, great job.   Down the stretch we're running a lot of outside zones and those guys are really getting the push off.   They did a great job.

Q.   You came back, and Coach said (Indiscernible)?
EVERETT GOLSON:   Yeah, well, at that point I didn't know I would get that chance.   To be honest, I was a little upset just because of the competitor in me just wanted to be out there.   But I think it was good for me that I actually saw it this time.   I think previously in the beginning of the year, I come out and they would end up telling me, but I think that just comes from a lot of film study with coaches.   You know, actually seeing my mistakes and kind of seeing it in the sidelines and seeing what they were doing kind of helped me come back and lead.

Q.   Are you surprised he put you back in? 
EVERETT GOLSON:   Yeah.   I don't know.   I wasn't really surprised.   I think I was gracious for the opportunity to prove myself.

Q.   At that point did you think you'd get the game ball? 
EVERETT GOLSON:   No, not at all.   I wasn't necessarily thinking about the individual award at all.   Just wanted to maybe come back and kind of prove myself to my teammates.   Just really wanted to get the victory.

Q.   Where's the game ball go?   What do you do with it? 
EVERETT GOLSON:   I guess give it to the whole offense.   Because, like I say, we did such a great job handling adversity.   You talk about in the beginning of the game, like I said, we gave up a lot of points that we should have capitalized on.   But everybody sticking together and executing really.   I give it to the whole offense.

Q.   Was it halftime when you knew you were going to go out there or second quarter?   When? 
EVERETT GOLSON:   It was halftime.   They kind of just told me and told Tommy.   The competitor in me didn't like it too much, but my teammates were there just to kind of bring me up and stuff like that, told me to be ready.

Q.   Coach Kelly told you that or who told you?
EVERETT GOLSON:   Yeah, Coach.

Q.   You talk about playing with a chip on your shoulder, so is that another example of where you're like all right.   I'm going to go out here and prove you wrong? 
EVERETT GOLSON:   Yeah.   That's why I like playing away games.   I just play with that chip on my shoulder.   But I definitely felt like it was my chance to prove what I can do.   I was confident that we could do it.

Q.   How does it feel to be the starting quarterback being 9‑0? 
EVERETT GOLSON:   It feels great, really good.   Just got to keep going.   You never want to be comfortable with where you're at.   Personally, I want to be 12‑0 or 13‑0.   So you've got to keep going one game at a time, and kind of look up at the games and see what's there.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
EVERETT GOLSON:   The rest of my life.   Like I said, just my teammates.   I'm proud of how passionate both our offense and defense.   The defense with their backs up against the wall, and Cierre fumbled, and just to have all the diversity and even through that we had guys on the sidelines just saying, "Stay up.   Keep doing what you're doing.   We're going to be good," and stuff like that.   I'm just proud of the character that we have.

Q.   What did you see on that deep ball in regulation to Daniels?   When did you spot him?   He said he was running a dig and you guys made eye contact? 
EVERETT GOLSON:   Yeah, I think the whole week I've been kind of been on DaVaris about when a play breaks down improvise and just getting open, and he did it one time before.   But I was so fortunate that he did that.   You know, that's what I was trying to do was just improvise.

Q.   Did you see him? 
EVERETT GOLSON:   I saw him break.   When I saw him break, my eyes lit up because I saw it was one‑on‑one.   So I just tried to throw it up and give him a chance.

Q.   On the interception in the end zone, it looked like the guy was wide open in the corner or something? 
EVERETT GOLSON:   Oh, yeah.   It was a horrible throw, horrible read.

Q.   Did you see the corner? 
EVERETT GOLSON:   Yeah, I saw him.   I definitely saw him.   It was just a bad pass.   Like I said, it was a horrible read.   I think even with the read I made, if I get that ball up a little bit, it's a touchdown in the end zone. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT