DISCOVER BCS NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP GAME: ALABAMA v  NOTRE DAME
January 5, 2013
Everett Golson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Are you ready for the game?
EVERETT GOLSON:   I think so.   Just being out here today, you know, being in the stadium, it makes you kind of realize that it's really basically here.   Now I'm ready and anxious for it.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
EVERETT GOLSON:   They've been good.   They've been good.   I think the team has been really dialed into what we have going on, you know, and it's just been tremendous for us.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
EVERETT GOLSON:   You know, I don't know, to be honest, because I don't really listen to the naysayers.   I'm just focused on what I can control on the field and with the team. 

Q.   What is your confidence level?
EVERETT GOLSON:   Definitely high.   I feel like it has to be.   Being that I'm the leader of this team, the leader of this offense, it has to be high.   So I'm definitely ready to go, like I said earlier. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
EVERETT GOLSON:   I think just everything I've been through this season.   You know, the progression I've made from game 1 to now, the trust in my teammates and the trust that they have in me, you know, just that type of thing makes me a lot more confident now. 

Q.   How much better is this team now than it was at the start of the season? 
EVERETT GOLSON:   Oh, I think we've seen a lot of progression.   You know, as far as just specifically offense, we struggled in the beginning of the season, and that's due to coaching changes and me being young and going into that starting spot.   But I think we've progressed week in and week out. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
EVERETT GOLSON:   Probably zero.   No, I feel like, like I said, we've progressed a lot, and that's the way to go.   I'm never going to be comfortable with where we're at because I always think we could be so much better.

Q.   Is this a game where you guys can just maintain (inaudible)? 
EVERETT GOLSON:   Well, I think you have to make some big plays.   It's going to be tough because Alabama has a great defense, and they also have a great running attack on offense.   As they make their big plays, we're going to have to make big plays to win this game, too.   I think we know that and the coaches know that.   It's all up to us to just really execute the plan. 

Q.   When you're looking at video, what do you see from them? 
EVERETT GOLSON:   Athletic, great defensive scheme, and they play their responsibilities.   It's going to be real tough.   It's going to be a real challenge for us, but we're ready for this opportunity.

Q.   Is it a lot of reads when you're back that you've got to be aware of when you're facing them? 
EVERETT GOLSON:   Yeah, I think so.   They do little things like something one way and then they'll spin it back the other way, so you have to be ready for that.   When you think you're right, you may be wrong.   Just being ready for that and just preparing for that makes me more confident, ready to go into this game.

Q.   You've stayed pretty steady throughout this process, how have you been able to do that? 
EVERETT GOLSON:   Yeah, well, I think just not riding that wave, just kind of staying level headed, trusting in my teammates, believing in my teammates and just really staying level headed to be honest.

Q.   Talk about the Michigan State game.   What happened for you in that game as far as how it played out in your development and the team's season? 
EVERETT GOLSON:   I think the Michigan State game helped me out a little bit.   I think at that time I was still maybe thinking a little bit too much, but the Michigan State game, it was good.   I think it really built a little more confidence in me from my teammates a little bit more.   And obviously I was kind of upset at the end of the game because I got taken out and whatnot.   But it kind of assured me that I was growing a little bit.

Q.   Was it a test for your team, first road game?
EVERETT GOLSON:   Oh, yeah, it was definitely a test, being that they were No.10, we were No.20.   We were counted out, and we were the underdogs, same similar situation we're in now.   But we just really believed in ourselves, and I think that's what took us over there. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
EVERETT GOLSON:   I did not.   I did not.   I'm asking around, though. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
EVERETT GOLSON:   I think it was necessarily probably‑‑ it would probably be the Miami game for me is where I really settled down and tried to get back to what I do best as a quarterback, and just improvising and kind of just being me.   So I kind of played a little bit looser, and I think as the season went on, that's what you kind of saw in the Oklahoma game, the Pitt game, was just me being myself a little bit and just playing loose. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
EVERETT GOLSON:   I hope so.   Johnny Manziel is a great quarterback, obviously he won the Heisman.   We watched the tape, but it's not only what he does with his legs, it's also how he finally found his match‑ups.   So the coaches have a great plan.   We're definitely just looking to execute that plan.

Q.   Do you think it's an advantage having experience in the BCS Championship game?
EVERETT GOLSON:   I don't think so.   More so we see it as a competition against Alabama.   It's not necessarily what the media makes it out to be as the BCS National Championship.   We understand what we're playing for, but at the same time we can only control what's going on on the field.   That's our plan for Alabama. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
EVERETT GOLSON:   I don't.   You know, being that statistics show that it's the top two defenses in the country, so obviously it's going to be a defensive battle.   As I said before, on offense we want to make big plays.   We think us making big plays will hopefully help us get over. 

Q.   Knowing you're going up against a team like this that doesn't give up a lot of big plays (inaudible)? 
EVERETT GOLSON:   Oh, definitely, definitely.   Like I said before, being that Alabama does play their responsibilities, has a great defensive scheme, everything is not going to be drawn up to plan.   You're going to have to improvise, you're going to have to make plays for yourself, so I think I'm ready for it. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
EVERETT GOLSON:   Yeah.   It was kind of just me from the beginning.   I think what really made me choose No.5 was at the time, probably Donovan McNabb, and I always like Donovan McNabb, he wasn't necessarily the fastest like the Michael Vick types, but he could get yards and he had a great arm. 

Q.   How big are you right now compared to when you went to high school?   Do you feel stronger and more durable?
EVERETT GOLSON:   Oh, I do.   Compared to when I left high school, I think it's kind of night and day a little bit for me.   But no, definitely with my physicality, I think it's definitely a long way to go, and I think that's what we're going to work on in the off‑season is just trying to put on another layer for me. 

Q.   What's your weight?
EVERETT GOLSON:   I can't remember what it was then, and I can't remember the last time I weighed in.   Six feet, 190.

Q.   At least 10 pounds heavier?
EVERETT GOLSON:   Yeah.

Q.   You're from the South, how sick do you get of the SEC talk, six titles going on seven?
EVERETT GOLSON:   Well, I think it would mean a lot, not just because of the history‑‑ well, obviously because of the history of it, but just me being a competitor and wanting to win this game, winning this National Championship.   So I think it would mean a lot to this team.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT