NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: WARRIORS vs ROCKETS
May 18, 2018
Trevor Ariza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  With Steph Curry, how aware do you have to always be going out 27 feet, 28 feet, and contest against those, where you might not against others?  
TREVOR ARIZA: I just think everybody on their team can shoot.  When they're in a scoring position, you just have to give some sort of resistance.  Try to make them think about doing other things.   
 Q.  Is it a different scoring position with him?  You've covered everybody.  Not everybody has that kind of range.  
TREVOR ARIZA: Well, the people that I'm guarding do.  Once they pass half court, it's scoring position for their main scorers.  So it's about putting pressure on them as soon as they come past half court.   
 Q.  Does it help you knowing that you've beaten them on their court?  
TREVOR ARIZA: None of that matters at this point.  That was way earlier in the year.  First game of the season.  They're a different team than they were earlier in the year.  We're a different team.  It's just about how we go out and play.   
 Q.  Is Oracle one of the more difficult places to play?  
TREVOR ARIZA: It's definitely a great place to play.  Their fans are great.  They bring a lot of energy to the game.  At this point there's nothing like playing in that type of environment and try to silence them.   
 Q.  Mike D'Antoni has talked about having a short memory in game.  How hard is that to have a short memory in game?  
TREVOR ARIZA: Well, if you want to be successful, it's not hard at all.  Things are going to happen.  Basketball's a game full of mistakes.  It's about limiting your mistakes.  In order to do that, you have to forget about the mistakes that happened.  Our thing is just move on to the next play as quick as possible.   
 Q.  How hard is it to make a mistake and have it linger?  I know you guys are professional, but it has to be water off a duck's back, right?  
TREVOR ARIZA: We have players on our team that remind us every possession, OK, we've got to move on.  That's why it's so important to have a veteran group.   
 Q.  Whenever you all have so many people contributing and hitting on all cylinders, how difficult are you to be beat?  
TREVOR ARIZA: I think when everybody is playing the way that we did play [in Game 2], it's very tough to beat.  But it's not about the scoring.  It's everybody on the same page, moving with the ball and without the ball and playing for each other.   
 Q.  When you guys talk about communication, how much of that is about switching or not switching and making sure both guys know what they're thinking?  
TREVOR ARIZA: Communicating is just about being on the same page.  Wherever this team is, as long as we communicate, if there's any indecision, the communication will cover that up.   
 Q.  Are the switches the subject 70, 80, 90 percent of the time?  
TREVOR ARIZA: That's what we do.  It's no secret.  They play with a lot of pace and move a lot, so still there is indecision when they move the way they move.  So when you communicate and you're talking to each other, that leaves no room for indecision.   
 Q.  Are you good at fixing communication within a game, especially in the playoffs?  
TREVOR ARIZA: I find our team being good to adjust to anything, not just on the fly.  Whatever it is, I think our team is able to adjust to anything.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT