NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: NUGGETS v LAKERS
May 26, 2009
Trevor Ariza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   TREVOR ARIZA: I mean, I don't know if I'm supposed to say this, but it pisses people off. You hit some shots late in the game, when the game is over, you're setting them off. That's cool. But they played well. 
 They played tougher than us the last game and in the game probably. From the looks of things, they wanted to win and they won. 

 Q. Something that might happen in Westchester Park, the chicken dance?
 TREVOR ARIZA: No, definitely not. Man, I don't know. Westchester, in high school? 

 Q. No, growing up. 
 TREVOR ARIZA: No, I don't think it would be that easy, though.

 Q. (Indiscernible)?
 TREVOR ARIZA: I'm all right. Getting better every day.

 Q. Anything particular about last night's game?
 TREVOR ARIZA: No, I don't think. So just didn't have it yesterday.

 Q. There's an attitude you don't want to let your opponent know it hurts or you're tired or anything like that?
 TREVOR ARIZA: I'm not tired at all. I won't let them know I hurt. I never show that either. 

 Q. You were kind of mad that time when you got hurt and you couldn't deny that it hurt, right, because it hurt so bad you had to come out of the game?
 TREVOR ARIZA: It did hurt. But right now you gotta look past the hurt, try to find another way to get through the pain.

 Q. How do you guys think you're playing right now versus earlier in the playoffs, earlier in the regular season?
 TREVOR ARIZA: It wasn't that we were playing bad. We just didn't make any shots yesterday, the shots that we normally made. We didn't make them yesterday. That was tough.

 Q. Those were the correct, maybe not the right shots to be taken?
 TREVOR ARIZA: No, I don't think so. We take them one at a time. That's how we play. We take shots. They didn't fall, like I said. 

 Q. (Indiscernible)?
 TREVOR ARIZA: I don't think so. A lot went in and out.

 Q. You showed a great deal of -- you guys are really banged up?
 TREVOR ARIZA: A lot of us are banged up, but that's a part of the game. Especially now it's going to be physical. People are going to play tougher and fight through it.

 Q. Last night it got even more physical and borderline dirty?
 TREVOR ARIZA: It's basketball. People play their own certain way. Everybody had their own style.

 Q. Have you they gotten under your skin just a little bit with that kind of play?
 TREVOR ARIZA: No, no emotions from the team.

 Q. What does it take to be a good rebounder? We hear it's all about effort. And we see them outrebound you guys by 18 last night. 
 TREVOR ARIZA: Effort. There was effort. We gotta find the extra effort to go get loose balls and to get rebounds and put bodies on people.

 Q. They played like they were desperate, too. Will you play like you guys are desperate in Game 5?
 TREVOR ARIZA: Definitely. I think we're going to have a different approach from now on. I think so.

 Q. What approach is that, when you guys talk about it with the team, when you say different approach, what do you guys emphasize?
 TREVOR ARIZA: Just making an extra effort. Not just relying on our talent or our execution but making extra effort on the hustle.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT