NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: NUGGETS v LAKERS
May 24, 2009
Trevor Ariza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. The corners, was that like that's one of the main spots or just where --
 TREVOR ARIZA: Watch the tape.

 Q. Did you guys do anything differently defensively on Melo in the second half last night?
 TREVOR ARIZA: I don't think so. Just didn't let him get as many easy looks as he got in the first half. Just tried to push up on him a little more. But other than that, I don't think we did anything else.

 Q. How would you consider him strength-wise with other small forwards?
 TREVOR ARIZA: He's definitely a strong guard. I don't think him as a forward, especially in the back. So in the second half we did a good job.

 Q. Do you visualize making big shots; is that part of what you do when you practice?
 TREVOR ARIZA: I mean, as a kid you always visualize yourself making big shots and making shots that win the game for your team. 

 Q. It didn't help me. (Laughter) look where I am. 
 TREVOR ARIZA: Well, you get to watch them. 

 Q. Do you remember the game-winner, those big ones last night?
 TREVOR ARIZA: I haven't -- the balls and the shots. But every time, I think every kid that played basketball, when they're young playing with someone they're looking up to, making the shots over the opponent.

 Q. What's going through your mind when Kobe hits that 3 with 1-10th left, do you marvel or turn your head?
 TREVOR ARIZA: That's what you gotta do. You can't be concerned or satisfied with a shot that's going to help your team. 
 You've got to play it all the way out, because anything can happen, especially now the way the playoffs have been going, even in the last series, Carmelo hit a big shot to help their team win because he didn't give up on the play. So can't give up.

 Q. Trevor, how are you feeling physically?
 TREVOR ARIZA: I'm feeling better than I felt yesterday. Still a little sore.

 Q. Where is it bothering you? The groin?
 TREVOR ARIZA: In the groin, the hip. In my hip. But I feel better than I did yesterday.

 Q. When you take foul shots at the end of the game, last night, does it feel different than when it's early in the game?
 TREVOR ARIZA: It did, for some strange reason. It shouldn't, but it did. I was definitely more focused on what I had to do with those two free throws. And knocked them down.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT