NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: NUGGETS v LAKERS
May 22, 2009
Trevor Ariza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How do you feel?   
 TREVOR ARIZA: I'm all right. A little sore. But hopefully by tomorrow the soreness will go away.  
  
  Q. Kobe mentioned you guys don't need to reinvent the wheel, close game; what specifically do you point to that needs to be done in a close game, the difference between a win and a loss?  
 TREVOR ARIZA: Just being more patient, being smarter with the ball, trying not to make big plays, try to make basic plays.  
  
  Q. Do you feel in the same situation you were in against the Rockets, how is this challenge going to be a different going to Denver?  
 TREVOR ARIZA: Well, I don't think it's any different. It's just a different team. They have a few more scorers on their team. So we're really going to have to lock in on their defensive end. If we do that, I think everything will take care of itself.  
  
  Q. They played really well in the two games at Staples, how much better do you expect them to play at home?  
 TREVOR ARIZA: I expect them to play a whole lot better especially at home; the crowd's behind them. Used to the baskets and all that. But we still gotta play, too. I feel we can play better.  
  
  Q. What are your feelings on the jump ball at the end of the game?   
 TREVOR ARIZA: Whatever I feel, I don't think it matters at this point because we can't go back on the game. So just gotta move on and be ready for Game 3.  
  
  Q. Do you learn anything from that play, though?  
 TREVOR ARIZA: Did I learn anything from it? Everything you can learn from every situation. So I'll take it and move on.  
  
  Q. Kind of anxious from the standpoint that you guys have the best road record in the NBA. They haven't lost at home since early March.   
 TREVOR ARIZA: Well, there's a first time for everything. Whatever. So we'll be ready to play.  
  
  Q. Along those same lines, how anxious are you to get back on the floor so this team can kind of redeem itself?  
 TREVOR ARIZA: I want to play. If we could play now, I'd be ready to play. I'm sure everybody else would be, too. No, I don't think we worry about anything that's happening.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT