NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: NUGGETS v LAKERS
May 20, 2009
Trevor Ariza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. So real quick, I know you guys had over 100 games right now, I know things have been kind of tight. What do you feel going into this series against the Nuggets?
 TREVOR ARIZA: There's only one way to feel. I mean, excited definitely. We're closer to what we're trying to accomplish. There's definitely -- it's going to be an exciting series. They play hard. We've got things to do. They're a good team. They have a lot of scorers. So it will be fun time.

 Q. With these games, mentally and physically there's got to be somewhere in doubt, but which one do you think is harder to maintain, the mental conditioning or physical conditioning?
 TREVOR ARIZA: I would say the mental probably would be the toughest, because this is what we do. And even when we're not playing in the regular season we're still playing somehow, working on our game or something. 
 So conditioning, I don't think, is a problem. 

 Q. Is that an easy read for you last night, getting that steal?
 TREVOR ARIZA: No, I played good D on the ball. Anthony Carter put a little air into it and I was able to get to it.

 Q. Because you were joking last night saying you had to do something?
 TREVOR ARIZA: I did. I was getting served yesterday. So I had to figure out some kind of way to help my team out.

 Q. Do you have a sense of redemption, then?
 TREVOR ARIZA: Help our team get a win. So a little bit.

 Q. Kobe all but said he thought you guys got away with one. Is that accurate?
 TREVOR ARIZA: I would say so. They was winning the whole game, until the end. And we came out with one.

 Q. You anxious to play this Game 2 against Carmelo?
 TREVOR ARIZA: Yeah, definitely. I watched a little tape on him. We watched film today. And I think I can do a better job now.

 Q. Be even better prepared? Because you didn't have a lot of time to prepare for Game 1. 
 TREVOR ARIZA: I think we'll be better prepared. We're a little rusty -- not rusty, but they were rested. They came out ready to play. And we got away with one we was fortunate to win last night.

 Q. For last night, the game (indiscernible)?
 TREVOR ARIZA: I haven't, but that's still not an excuse. I still gotta figure out how to try to stop them.

 Q. Do you talk to guys a lot, pick up on --
 TREVOR ARIZA: Yeah, I mean, since last night I got a few tips what to do. So I think I'll be better prepared tomorrow.

 Q. Chauncey Billups is saying that you guys pretty much had them against the ropes through the entire game, but it was that final punch that really went and did it for you guys. So would you say that this is the best finishing game of the NBA?
 TREVOR ARIZA: We're just a team that who wants to win. So whatever it takes to win, I think we'll try to do.

 Q. In the last minute --
 TREVOR ARIZA: Whether it's in the last minute or early in the game, we're going to try to win somehow.

 Q. You acknowledge the struggles you were having during the course of the game. How do you keep yourself from --
 TREVOR ARIZA: Just forget about everything that happened the play before and just worry about the next play. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT