NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: ROCKETS v WARRIORS
May 20, 2015
Trevor Ariza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  TREVOR ARIZA:   Like you said, we've dealt with injuries and uncertainty all year, and we've always come out on top of our situation.   It's no different now.   The players just have to step up.   We all have to step up and take a bigger role in what we're doing if Dwight can't go or whatever the case may be.  
   
 Q.   How does it affect your mindset if he's not going to be out there?  
TREVOR ARIZA:   You almost have to.   You can't worry about if he's going to play or not.   Of course he's a big part of what we're doing and a big part of our team, but again, if he can't go, we can't use that as an excuse not to play or to try to win the game.   We have players that can step up.   Clint is going to be big for us.   He's been big for us all postseason, so if he can't go, he'll step in, and I feel like Clint will do a good job in there.  
   
 Q.   What have you felt about Clint's development?  
TREVOR ARIZA:   Well, I think Clint has been very big, from day one.   He's been working hard.   He's worked hard every day, and he's come in and he's given us huge minutes, made big plays for us, and he's a player who learned very fast, and he's willing to do anything to win.  
   
 Q.   How much does it help you that you know you can win here?   
TREVOR ARIZA:   I feel like we can win anywhere, as long as we continue to play hard, do the things that we do well, and get to loose balls and win on the boards.   I feel like we can win anywhere.  
   
 Q.   Talk about what you guys were able to build on the first quarter when Howard was dominating inside.   I think a lot of people feel like this series hinges on his availability and your availability to go big.   
TREVOR ARIZA:   Yeah, well, he's huge in the paint.   That's what he does.   He controls the paint for us.   But if he goes down, we can't allow that to hurt us.   Again, we all have to get in there and do our job better and try to pick up the slack when he's down.  
   
 Q.   How much do you need to be big and physical when it comes to this Warriors team and take them out of what they want to do?  
TREVOR ARIZA:   I think it's important.   The rebounding game for us has been important for us all year.   When we rebound and we keep teams off the offensive glass, you know, our odds are pretty good.  
   
 Q.   When Terrence slides into the five, you guys are very comfortable in that small role, as well, though, you don't need to be the physical‑‑  
TREVOR ARIZA:   Yeah, I feel like we're very versatile.   We can play big and we can go small.   We've been playing small throughout the year when Dwight went down through the year.   We're comfortable doing that, as well.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT