NBA FINALS: MAGIC v LAKERS
June 11, 2009
Trevor Ariza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Los Angeles Lakers - 99
  Orlando Magic - 91 
   
  Q. Trevor, how much did the coach emphasize coming out of the locker room, you guys are down by 12 points. Tell us about the talk that he gave at halftime to inspire you guys to erase that 12-point halftime lead.   
 TREVOR ARIZA: Well, he pretty much said stay focused. As a group we know that their team is not going to let you back in the game because they shoot a lot of threes, and we wanted to come out aggressive early, and that's what we did.  
  
  Q. After you guys, Fisher made that three-point that tied it up, sent it into overtime, were you guys so determined not to lose that game after that big shot?  
 TREVOR ARIZA: After that big shot we just thought that we got this far, we didn't come this far to lose. They gave us an opportunity to win the game, and that's what we wanted to do.   
  
  Q. Day in and day out does Derek have the respect of Kobe that maybe no other teammate could have on the Lakers because of the history they have together?  
 TREVOR ARIZA: They've definitely been together for a long time. They came in together, so they definitely have a good bond, and they show us how to do things. We're a tight team, and all we want to do is win.   
  
  Q. Was Derek in the locker room right after the game talking about that Indiana series? What did he say about that?  
 TREVOR ARIZA: He just said that Kobe got hurt in the game, came back in Game 4, won, and they thought that everything was going to be good, the other team was just going to lay down. And the next game they got beat by 30. He just told us to stay focused because it's not over.   
 The series is 3-1 and the goal is to win four games.   
  
  Q. You make a lot of game/momentum-shifting plays. It's been like that throughout the season, it's happened during the playoffs. I'm interested to know whether or not you put pressure on yourself mentally to make sure that you make several of those plays a game, whereas like a big man says or a point guard says, I have to control the offense. Do you think in your head, I have to make this play that can change the game?  
 TREVOR ARIZA: No, I don't put no pressure on myself, I just go out and play the game. That's when you start messing up, when you put too much pressure on yourself. Just come into the game clear and just try to play hard.  
  
  Q. Whenever they inbounded to Kobe and he got it to you, did you assume they were going to foul you there? This franchise traded you away because supposedly you couldn't shoot and you came back and made some shots tonight.   
 TREVOR ARIZA: I don't cry over the past or worry about spilled milk. I'm just focused on my team and winning the championship. I saw Derek open when Kobe did pass me the ball, and he had a lane, and that was the right play to make because he hit the shot.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about the play of the bench in the second quarter? They played some serious minutes. And then talk about personally your play in that third quarter.   
 TREVOR ARIZA: Well, the bench kept us within striking distance. They played great in the second quarter. In the third quarter I just tried to come out and be aggressive. When I'm aggressive early, it kind of gets our team going.   
 Anything I can do to help my team win, that's what I'm going to try to do.   
  
  Q. You were 0 for 6 shooting in the first half, and right before the start of the second half, the opening of the third quarter, Phil Jackson put his hand behind your head and whispered something to you and then you responded with eight quick points in the first minutes. What did Phil say to give you that confidence coming right out of the gate after a struggle in the first half?  
 TREVOR ARIZA: Just be ready to play, that's all he pretty much said. At halftime I already told myself that I was going to be aggressive, and he reassured me that it's okay to be aggressive, just go out and play and try to make some things happen.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT