NBA FINALS: MAGIC v LAKERS
June 3, 2009
Trevor Ariza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Knowing Dwight as well as you do and having seen him develop, how big of a load is he compared to anybody else in the league right now?  
 TREVOR ARIZA: He's a big, big, big problem down there, especially when he gets the ball in the paint, deep in the paint. You've either going to foul him or foul him. You can't really do nothing else.  
 We've got to concentrate on trying not to let him get the ball so deep down in the post.  
  
  Q. Can you practice fouling?  
 TREVOR ARIZA: No, you can't practice fouling. We don't want to foul, but if we have to, we will. Just try to keep him out of the paint.  
  
  Q. Is there anything you can draw on from your experiences in Orlando coming into this series?  
 TREVOR ARIZA: Anything I can draw on? My experience in Orlando was a good one. I made some good friends. I know they're going to play hard. They're a tough team and well coached.  
  
  Q. As far as match-up-wise, do you feel like you have any sort of inside knowledge on any of these guys?  
 TREVOR ARIZA: I was only in Orlando for a little while when Stan Van Gundy was the coach, so I really don't know too much.  
  
  Q. What was your mindset going into last year's Finals?  
 TREVOR ARIZA: Well, I wasn't playing, so my role was just to support my teammates and try to be the best teammate possible, and if my name was called go out and play as hard as I can for however many minutes.  
  
  Q. Because you were coming off that injury at this time compared to how you are now, describe what the difference is now compared to then.  
 TREVOR ARIZA: I think it's a big difference. It's night and day. Last year I didn't really have any confidence in shooting the ball from outside, behind the three-point line. This year I'm shooting it and it's going in, so that's helped my team out a lot.  
  
  Q. The NBA Finals creates an issue where the league is involved in everything you guys do like practices like this. Does this help you guys, the fact you've been there, or is that a non-issue?  
 TREVOR ARIZA: I just think we've got to block it out and just focus on the task at hand and just worry about our game plan, worry about our opponents.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT