PENN STATE UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 5, 2013
Adrian Amos
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






		  
		  THE MODERATOR:   We have junior cornerback Adrian Amos with us.

Q.   Adrian, Coach talked about quarterback being the more comfortable position.   Have you felt more comfortable since switching back to playing corner? 
ADRIAN AMOS:   Yeah, since I've been in college, that's what I've been playing is cornerback.   Of course it's going to be more natural for me to go back and play corner.   That was always an option, if needed.   So, yeah, I'm comfortable playing corner, and back guy corner.   But as the season goes on, we'll just see how things shape up.

Q.   You and Obeng have been playing back there for three years now.   Can you tell me about him, his personality on the field, in the locker room, things like that? 
ADRIAN AMOS:   Obeng is pretty much a wild boy.   He's out there just all over the field.   He's running around, fiery.   On film after the games, you know, he's always the one that we point out his celebrations after plays and stuff like that.   He's always around the ball, and he made a big change for us as a defense.   He's just an all‑around team player.   Whether it's special teams or moving the linebacker, things like that.

Q.   That celebration was‑‑
ADRIAN AMOS:   I don't know.   I can't really tell.

Q.   How hard is it to move to linebacker like that after being safety for four years?   How hard is it to make that transition? 
ADRIAN AMOS:   Well, I really haven't, you know, played linebacker.   But Obeng, he's pretty big and one of the strongest guys on the team and has good instincts.   So when he moved, he adjusted well.   Just attacking downhill and playing football.

Q.   What was the most challenging aspect of playing safety for you? 
ADRIAN AMOS:   Challenging?   I don't know.   It's just adjusting to a new thing.   It's like basically starting a new position like being a freshman all over again.   Learning the different techniques and what to do in certain situations.   Just getting a feel for it.   You know, switching back and forth.   That was my first couple games playing safety.   I'm starting to get better and getting more used to it.   Even now I'm still getting better at safety learning how to play naturally.   The moves and stuff are easy.   It's just learning within the scheme work of our defense.

Q.   Coach O'Brien said that against Illinois it was probably your best game of the season.   Would you agree with that and why? 
ADRIAN AMOS:   I don't know whether it was the best game of my season or not.   But I think I played pretty well, yeah, we made a lot of mistakes, but overall we played pretty good on defense as a unit with tackling.   We tackled pretty well but, yeah, my first game‑‑ like back in the corner and just out there, just playing football.   I'm trying to get better every week, so hopefully next week will be my best game to date.   Then the week after that will be better than that.

Q.   What changes have you noticed in your teammate Jordan Lucas from this year compared to last year?   Has he taken on a vocal role for these defensive backs? 
ADRIAN AMOS:   Jordan's always been a real physical player.   He's always had athleticism.   He's just getting better every week.   He works really hard in practice and things like that.   He's always been pretty vocal.   As he's getting older, he's going to become even more vocal.   Well, that's what I see he's getting more and more vocal.   So he's been playing very good.   He played well last week too.

Q.   Adrian, you talked earlier about some of the challenges of playing safety.   Was there a most frustrating part for you?   Was there ever a practice or day where you're like, man, I just want to go back to corner?   Did that ever occur? 
ADRIAN AMOS:   I mean, everything's a lot of challenges.   But you know, you can't even look at it like that.   Man, I just want to go back to corner and things like that.   You have to do what your team needs you to do and focus on what the coach is asking you to do and just practice that.

Q.   To follow it up, the other day after the game you said you wanted to kind of get back to having more fun and just kind of playing.   Has that been something you've been focused on this year?   Would you say maybe you've been too tensed up or too focused on trying to make the transition that the game wasn't as fun for you or what did you mean? 
ADRIAN AMOS:   You know, with football this is a game I've been playing since I was young.   So first and foremost, this game is supposed to be fun.   When I'm having fun and out there playing and enjoying myself and just out there playing and know my assignments, but that comes with knowing everything first so you can just let it loose in the game and have fun and enjoy playing.   I want to just enjoy these last four games, play hard, and hopefully finish out 9‑3.

Q.   So do you think you're thinking too much there or trying to make the transition? 
ADRIAN AMOS:   I mean, learn something new in the beginning of the year, you're thinking a lot.   But as you get more comfortable, you know, it allows you to just play.

Q.   What do you like best about playing cornerback?   Where do you think you‑‑ what is your best skill as a corner back would you say? 
ADRIAN AMOS:   Probably getting hands on defenders and making plays on the ball.   That's what I try to work on and being physical at the line of scrimmage.   Making tackles when the ball comes to the edge.

Q.   A random question.   I saw you're a Parks and Tours and Management major.   Why did you decide to study that?   What is your interest in that? 
ADRIAN AMOS:   First, I already enjoy coaching and I want to stay in something recreation alley.   Hopefully one day I want‑‑ I have many different ideas with working with kids and working with youth.   So it's a lot of different things that are running through my mind.   I really don't have a set plan for sure right now.   But it's a lot of things that I want to do with that. 

Q.   What are a couple of the fun ideas that you have, if you don't mind sharing? 
ADRIAN AMOS:   You know, I always say I want to have my own rec center or back in Baltimore or something like that, or somewhere where my family is.   My uncle actually runs tournaments.   He just passed away, but he ran tournaments in Charlotte, NorthCarolina, and I like stuff like that, so that's what really made me want to go into that field.

Q.   Are you a Ravens fan? 
ADRIAN AMOS:   Yes, I'm a Ravens fan.

Q.   Is that an obvious answer being from Baltimore that you're a Ravens fan? 
ADRIAN AMOS:   Yeah, I mean there are some Pittsburgh fans in Baltimore.   I don't understand it.

Q.   Jordan Lucas went to the same high school as one of the Ravens big‑time players, Ray Rice. 
ADRIAN AMOS:   Yeah.

Q.   I know he's worked out with him in the off‑seasons before.   Have you talked with him about that?   Has Jordan ever bragged about that that he works out with Rice in the off‑season? 
ADRIAN AMOS:   No, he never bragged about it.   I knew that Ray race and him went to the same school and worked out.   I knew it was something like that, but he doesn't really bring it up.

Q.   What's Lucas like in the weight room in terms of what he's able to do? 
ADRIAN AMOS:   Oh, yeah, he's strong.   He has a big frame.   He's grown into an even bigger corner.   Yeah, he has passed the eye test when it comes to cornerbacks.

Q.   Could you talk about the challenges Minnesota brings? 
ADRIAN AMOS:   Minnesota, they're playing really well.   They're 7‑2.   Their record speaks for itself, really.   You don't just go 7‑2 being a slouch team.   They're really physical.   We were watching film.   They like to run the ball a lot.   So we have to match the physical play and play smart.   Mostly we have to execute what we have to do and execute our game plan.   That's every week we have to execute what we have to do. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT