NBA DRAFT
June 28, 2006
Randy Foye
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  So Kevin Garnett, how does that feel? 
 RANDY FOYE:  Said it right there.  All I know, it's a great feeling when I went there and worked out for Minnesota, he was there.  He watched most of the workout, and I talked to Kevin McHale and when I went there and played, I just impressed them.  I did a lot of things that they probably think that I couldn't do.  So I'm just happy to be a Timberwolf right now. 

 Q.  First of all, congratulations.  What does this moment mean to you, just being up here and talk about how this night went, first from going from being a Celtic to a Portland Trail Blazer to now the Minnesota Timberwolves? 
 RANDY FOYE:  At first, it was nerve-wracking for me.  I was like, oh, man, like when I see the guys go 1, 2, 3, it was just nerve-wracking. 
 But then like two picks before, my agent and Brandon's agent was making like eye contact and I didn't know what was going on at the time.  And once I saw my agent's face light up, he was like, "Yeah, Boston is going to take you."  
 And then, "Portland is going to take you." And then when they said Minnesota, I was like, okay, good, yeah, bring it on.  
 Q.  Can you look ahead a little bit from what Minnesota has, it seems like a team that you could play for right away, which I know is important to you, as opposed to some other place, a place that you can play? 
 RANDY FOYE:  Playing right away is not a big concern for me.  I'm just willing to go and do anything the team needs me to do.  Just being like a Timberwolf right now is a great feeling for me, just being selected in the NBA draft. 

 Q.  Minnesota is not exactly known for it's balmy climate in winter.  It makes Philadelphia look like Miami in comparison.  Does that enter to the back of your mind? 
 RANDY FOYE:  No, that doesn't matter because I'm not going to be outside.  I'm going to be in the gym. 

 Q.  Have the Timberwolves talked to you about a 1, a 2, a combo, where they see you? 
 RANDY FOYE:  When I spoke to Kevin McHale, he was just like, "I love you because you're a ballplayer.  You can do everything." I guess that he saw that from watching film over the course of his last season, and from me working out there.  So I think that he knew what he wanted from day one when I left the workout. 

 Q.  You played the 1 and the 2 at Villanova.  You're the first point guard taken in the draft; how does that feel and how comfortable do you feel making the point in the NBA? 
 RANDY FOYE:  If feels great to be the first point guard taken.  That is a lot of pressure.  But if you don't live up to the hype, you know, it doesn't really matter, as long as you just play as hard as you can for your teammates. 
 What was the second part of your question? 

 Q.  How comfortable do you feel playing the point? 
 RANDY FOYE:  I feel real comfortable playing it.  I love when the ball is in my hand at the end of the game. 
 For me, it's like I look at it as an opportunity to make a play for my teammates or make a play for myself.  So just having the ball at the end of the game, having the ball in my hand over the course of a game is just like a great feeling. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT