AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: YANKEES VS ASTROS
October 12, 2019
Gleyber Torres
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








New York - 7, Houston - 0
Q. (Question in Spanish.)
GLEYBER TORRES: (Answer in Spanish.)
Q. What do you think has been the key to your success so far this postseason and what does it mean to you to help your team so much in the playoffs?
GLEYBER TORRES: The key is just I got to -- I get really good plan to go to home plate. I mean, how I can feel comfortable because I got really good guys behind me, like LV, and Gary, Stanton, those guys.
I mean, I just go to the home plate believing what I can do. And each opportunity I got I just believe in myself and I just like to help and be confident.
Q. Are you surprised at what you've been able to do at such a young age?
GLEYBER TORRES: I mean, not really. During my career in the minor league I prepared really well myself for every situation last year. I take all the experience and now I just put all the experience in my game. Prepare really well to be here and help my team. So now I got opportunity. I just be patient and just go to the ballpark, play hard, and try to win all the games.
Q. After having such a great game tonight how do you get yourself mentally prepared to play against Verlander tomorrow?
GLEYBER TORRES: Tonight's play already, we won, we celebration, but we focus on tomorrow. I mean I know Verlander pitches pretty well. Always when he faced Yankees he pitched super good. So, I mean, the same for tomorrow, try to attack early, try to make some runs and try to win games. We've got a really good team. We believe in what we can do so we compete tomorrow.
Q. How did you feel being in a different spot in the lineup, being up in the order today, do you think that helped you or how do you think it worked out?
GLEYBER TORRES: I mean during last year and this year I hit every position. Really I think I feel comfortable. Is so great to play with the Yankees and I get the opportunity to play every day. So for me I'm just being focused, each position I just try to help and make some opportunities to me and try to help my team.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT