AL DIVISION SERIES: TWINS VS YANKEES
October 4, 2019
Gleyber Torres
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Yankees - 10, Twins - 4   
 Q.  Gleyber, can you take us through the at-bat against Duffy, especially after you fall behind 0-2 and how you do it, and then fouling that ball off at 3-2, what did you think of your swing there?  
GLEYBER TORRES: Before that at-bat, I got the same situation with bases loaded when I faced Berrios, and he throw me a breaking ball, and I just swing and got a ground ball RBI, but it's not a really good swing to hit with bases loaded. That is the thing that's beautiful about baseball. Baseball always gives you a second opportunity. So I got that opportunity and just try to take a really good ball to put it in play.   
So I swing the first pitch and take the second one, and after that I just feel relaxed. I don't want to feel pressure in that moment. I never feel panic and just try to take really good pitch to put the ball into play, and I help my team. I mean, he throw me a really good slider or breaking ball, I don't know what he throw, but he throws me really good, and I take it. Just waiting for a fastball. He throw me, and I do that.   
 Q.  Gleyber, you said you fell behind 0-2, and you don't panic and don't feel pressure. How is that? How do you keep yourself calm in that situation against a pitcher as good as Duffy has been?  
GLEYBER TORRES: I just try to be comfortable. I know he's got really good stuff. I know I've got really good guys behind me. So that is a moment I just feel comfortable, just be myself, try to, in the few moments, try to be easy and just try to do my job. That is the moment you've got an opportunity to help your team in a big situation, and I just want to do my job.   
 Q.  Gleyber, what was it like as a team just the way it was you guys were trading back and forth. You guys were trailing. You come back. They answer, and you deliver the knockout punch. What was that like for you guys as a team?  
GLEYBER TORRES: That is the special thing about our team. During the regular season, we got too many bad thing, so the special thing about our team is we never give up. During the regular season, we got like, I don't know how many games, but we start to lose, and we finish to win. So tonight they start early, and just we're patient. We know what we've got in our lineup. Just be patient, waiting for the opportunity. Just we get the opportunity, we take advantage of the mistakes and all the really good at-bats everyone takes, and we win the night.   
 Q.  Having played in the postseason last year and getting that first experience in the playoffs, what was different about tonight and starting another postseason?  
GLEYBER TORRES: Last year, we lost really early, and I was the last out in that series. For sure I feel really bad because for sure we want to win, but I just take that last at-bat like experience to me, right? So after that season, I go home, and I never forget that moment. I feel bad. I feel frustration. But I just take that moment too personal and just take advantage of that. During my off-season I prepare really, really, really good to help my team all this season and this moment for sure and just believe.   
Just take all the experience from last year and put it this year in my game and just try to do my job. For sure it's difficult to say I don't feel pressure. If you saw the fans was loud every inning, and just try to enjoy it and try to be in control and do my job.   
 Q.  Gleyber, what does it mean to this ball club to win the first game of this series?  
GLEYBER TORRES: Huge. We know the first game is really, really important for us, and Paxton throw really good. That bullpen got really good control in every inning, and all my players, my guys do a really good job every at-bat.   
We win tonight. Already we played. So we just have a focus on tomorrow and try to do the same thing and try to win again.   
 Q.  It's a two-part question similar to what was asked. What was the approach going into the at-bat, and second what allows you at your young age to excel?  
GLEYBER TORRES: I just try to be in control in that at-bat, and he throw me a really good pitch before and just be patient in that at-bat and looking for the pitch I can hit and try to help my team.   
 Q.  Gleyber, what's the feeling for you after you come through with such a big hit as you did tonight to put the team up?  
GLEYBER TORRES: Good, good, but it's not about me. It's not about the hit. It's about the win. We win tonight. That is the most important for me and my team. For sure I feel really happy because we won, so just come in tomorrow and try to do the same thing.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT