NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: PENGUINS VS SENATORS
May 21, 2017
Nick Bonino
Carter Rowney
Bryan Rust
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Pittsburgh - 7, Ottawa - 0   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Bonino and Rowney, can you talk about your chemistry going from last game to this game, what Rust has added to your line.  
NICK BONINO: Yeah, I thought we had a solid game last game with Shears.  Getting Rusty back is always good for the lineup.  The way he plays, getting it on the forecheck, is how we've wanted to play the last couple games.  I think our goals came from turnovers and good forechecks and good dumps.  We turned one over to get to Olli for a goal, he goes to the net, and I hit it off him.   
Those are plays you need in the playoffs.  It was good to have him back tonight.   
 Q.  Bryan, when you see a shift like the one that was going on prior to the goal you deflected in, is it pressure to keep that going?  Is that encouraging from the bench before you even get out there?  
BRYAN RUST: Yeah, I mean, they gave us a lot of momentum.  We tried to just go in the zone, feed off of that.  They had some guys who were pretty exhausted out there.  We were able to kind of take advantage of that.   
 Q.  Bryan, you seemed to come out with a lot of jump.  Looked like maybe a couple days of rest paid off there.  
BRYAN RUST: Yeah.  I had about five, six days of rest there basically.  My legs felt really good.  Felt 100% out there.  I was just kind of eager to get back out there, and have these guys help me.   
 Q.  Nick, obviously getting a player like Bryan back in the lineup is good from a skills perspective.  What kind of mental boost does it give you guys as you get these injured players back in the lineup?  
NICK BONINO: Yeah, it's good.  It's always good when you have your full lineup.  I think one of the strengths of our organization last year and this year have been the guys who've been able to come in, step in pretty seamlessly and make plays for us.  I didn't know Rusty was back till this morning.  Obviously a couple other guys tried today in the warmup.  Whenever you get them back, it's good.   
At the same time guys like Archi tonight was noticeable out there.  He played really well.  When they get in the lineup, they do really good things and we win games.   
 Q.  Nick, the first three games of this series, you had to fight so hard for every scoring chance.  The last couple games, especially today, what do you think changed?  
NICK BONINO: I think we've been looking at video pretty hard on ways to score.  I think zone time hasn't been an issue for us.  I think the neutral zone hasn't been as much of an issue as we thought it would.  We've been able to get into their zone pretty well.   
Hats off to them, they defend hard, keep to the outside.  I think we looked at ways to get the pucks to the net and get guys to the net.  I think a lot of our goals were that, the goals were right in the middle of the ice, with traffic.   
We definitely looked at video for that.  We came out and we executed the last couple games.  We know how hard it will be Game 6.   
 Q.  Carter, you scored four assists in your first 38 NHL games, had three tonight.  Put into words what it was like to have a game like this and what it's been like to have a week or last eight days like this.  
CARTER ROWNEY: I think we've been playing pretty well here.  I think our line has created some chances.  It's kind of a matter of time, I kind of felt like.  If you keep doing the right things out there, hopefully some chances will capitalize, and you'll get your opportunities.   
A couple of puck luck tonight.  We were able to get a couple in the back of the net.   
It's been something I've been working forward to, to be out there, be consistent, try to play my game.  It's been a good experience so far, just try to take it all in.   
 Q.  Nick, what happened on your ride here today?  Where is your truck right now?  
NICK BONINO: It's at a Ford dealership.  It was weird.  All of a sudden the gas didn't work and the power steering went out in the middle of the highway.  I was able to get it to the side.   
Great teammate Phil Kessel came and picked me up.  I owe a lot to Phil tonight for being here, a great guy.   
 Q.  Carter, your coach has talked about how hard it is to go in and out of the lineup.  You've been yanked in and out a couple times.  How hard is that to get your chance, then for the coaches to show their faith in you the way they have?  
CARTER ROWNEY: It's hard.  We have a lot of depth in this organization.  I think when you're out, you got to stay ready, do little things off the ice to make sure you're ready, give yourself the best opportunity when you do get put in the lineup.   
You want to make sure you're ready because you don't want to let down your teammates.  Got to stay sharp off the ice.  We have a great coaching staff that makes sure you're ready and focused for the opportunity.   
THE MODERATOR: Thanks, guys.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT