VRBO CITRUS BOWL: AUBURN VS NORTHWESTERN
December 30, 2020
Ramaud Chiaokhiao-Bowman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Can you talk about the way that you and Peyton have kind of built your connection over the year and how you've seen that progress from the start of the season to now?
 RAMAUD CHIAOKHIAO-BOWMAN:   Yeah, it's been awesome.  Peyton, I said it time and time again, but Peyton is one of the guys, he was immediately one of the guys before we even really met, just being able to talk to him over text, a couple calls.
 And then obviously off-season workouts during that quarantine time. -- he was driving back and forth between Ohio and Evanston where I was during quarantine in the early spring, early summer.  We were able to get to know one another, keep our distance and throw the ball around and start the relationship there.
 Through the season, it's awesome for me to see, just being able to -- or to have been here for five years now, been a part of the team, just see him not only take control, obviously, as our leader, but just really fall in.  It's almost like he's been here for my four or five years, as well, so it's been awesome.
 Q. Can you talk about, a lot of times during these Bowl games, it comes down to the speed and athleticism of the SEC against the physicality of the Big Ten.  How do you see that match-up playing out from what you've seen of their defensive backs with Auburn?
 RAMAUD CHIAOKHIAO-BOWMAN:   Yeah, Auburn is a good team.  We've been obviously watching them on tape, studying them on tape.  Putting in a game plan to execute and win.  So watching tape, we've been playing some, I can say, pretty decent competition in the Big Ten to say the least.  I think come Friday we're going to be prepared and ready to play and ready to dominate.
 Q. Going back to Coach Jak, Coach Jak when he comes in takes his new offense and creates a new offensive mindset and philosophy for the team.  Was there a play or a game early on where you saw the shift and saw the explosiveness and play making and what it could do?
 RAMAUD CHIAOKHIAO-BOWMAN:   Yeah, I talked about this a little bit a couple weeks ago.  But referencing back to the Maryland game, we got there, our first drive and hurry-up-tempo, kind of just -- it was our first drive of the game, but we were playing like it was two-minute drill.  Just to be out there, catch my second wind, and also see what that tempo does to the defense and the shots and concepts we got going while we're holding that high tempo, you know, it's hard to beat.
 So once I saw that and once I was out there actually running play to play, seeing what it was doing to the defense, I knew there was something special there.
 Q. As a receiver watching your own team's defense, they hold teams to a 182 passing yards in the game, not giving up a lot of points, what do you see as a receiver that makes them so effective against other receivers?
 RAMAUD CHIAOKHIAO-BOWMAN:   I think it comes down to three things.  One, we got dogs, like at our DB positions and even obviously the firm, our three backers in there holding it down.
 But talent, real-deal talent.  And on top of that, they play as a unit.  Starts with Coach Hank doing his thing as always, putting the guys in the right positions.
 But everybody is flying to the ball, so even if the ball is caught, ball is just outside, everybody is flying.  So big gains that are typical big gains turn into minimal gains against our defense.
 And then lastly, we fly around and we have fun.  I see that every day in practice and I see that even in off-season workouts.  I see that in the locker room and the weight room.  The just how our defense holds themselves, holds themselves to a high standard and then scout team DBs hold it to an even higher standard.
 Q. You mentioned a little earlier with Peyton driving down to see you during quarantine, that takes a special kind of character, a special kind of quarterback to drive across the state to throw a football around to you.  What does that say about him that did he that to help build that connection?
 RAMAUD CHIAOKHIAO-BOWMAN:   That speaks volumes about his personality and what he's willing to sacrifice.  It's a lot to be driving hours, alone, really and also just to be there for a day, day and a half to throw a football.  I mean -- talk about his character a high-character guy, but also he cares.  His care factor is through the roof, and he cares about the little details.  He knew the investment he was going to put in, not only for himself but also with the team as a whole, was going to pay off in the long run, and you can see where we are now.
 Q. How much of this Bowl game is about finishing strong, finishing the way you started?  You started 5-0, tough loss in the Big Ten Championship game.  How much can this wrap up a great season for you guys?
 RAMAUD CHIAOKHIAO-BOWMAN:   It's the same as any other week except a little more sunshine.  Our goal is to go 1-0.  We have been preparing to win.  And also it's just a lot better to be doing it in the sun.  Very grateful for the opportunity to come down here a couple days early.
 For the seniors to cap off their career and for this team to put a nice little ribbon on the box, on the present, to finish out the season strong.
 Q. You talked about your connection and your roommate, Kyric and the connection you've had.  What has his friendship meant to you and what do you expect from him down the line when he transfers?
 RAMAUD CHIAOKHIAO-BOWMAN:   He's my guy to say the least.  We kind of joked for this last year and a half, two years, we've been boys since he got on campus, even before he got on campus but for the last two years we've been Siamese twins.  Wherever he goes, I'm at; and where I'm at he goes.  I'm just really happy for him.  The next steps for him and the decisions he's going to make, I know he's going to make the right one and he's going to ball out wherever he's at.
 It was sad to see him go but I know that's like a brother to me, so we'll link up again soon.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT