DAVIS CUP - INDIA vs USA
October 12, 2001
Harsh Mankad
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. How well did you play today? 
 
 HARSH MANKAD: I thought I played well - definitely the first two and a half sets. Third set towards the end I got a -- lost focus a little bit once I lost serve early but then we have to give credit to him the way he served. I thought he served really unbelievable. It was a lot of pressure on me.  
 
Q. What was the toughest thing about returning that serve? 
 
 HARSH MANKAD: Like I never played him before so I didn't know what to expect initially. The players told me he really has a big serve to stay back initially, but then I wasn't really -- I kind of got the pace of it but he has got really good variety. He hit the out wide serve very well. Second serve was jumping up, but I thought for me it was just a different experience. I think that's what helped me for the future, but he's got really good variety on his serve; moves the ball very well. More than the pace, really moves very well in the corners.  
 
Q. Did you think he got a lift from the big crowd? 
 
 HARSH MANKAD: Yeah, I think definitely it helps to play at home and after the first two sets once he went two sets to Love up, I think he played a lot looser, picked up his level.  
 
Q. It looked a lot in the first set, some degree the second, like you were hitting to his backhand as much possible. Is that sort of the book on how to stay with him? 
 
 HARSH MANKAD: I think so. I tried to keep the ball to his backhand once in a while open out the court to the forehand. He likes to run around and hit forehands, so...  
 
Q. Seems when he was able to get into the net he was pretty successful. Did you feel that and also were you kind of a little worried when you'd see him rushing in? 
 
 HARSH MANKAD: Yeah, he came in off some big shots. He likess that. He doesn't really open out the point with a volley. He opens out the point with a groundstroke. So when he came in he came off a good start; it was tough to pass him .  
 
Q. What did you think of the atmosphere in there for tennis? 
 
 HARSH MANKAD: I thought it was great. I had a good time. For me it is a great experience. And I thought it was really nice. The crowd was very nice too. It was fun. Really it was fun playing.  
 
Q. What are the points that you need to improve upon? You played a world class player today, so what do you feel about yourself, where are the departments that you can really move forward on? 
 
 HARSH MANKAD: Well, I mean, it was a great chance for me and I'd like to thank Ramesh for giving me this opportunity to play such a player. There's a lot of positives I can take from this match. I definitely felt like I could keep up with him once the ball got in -- once I got the ball in, but I need to work a lot on certain explosive things. Like I just feel if I can get a little stronger over the years then I can, you know, compete with these guys. Plus the more I play at this level I think that you know, I will be more used to playing players week in and week out, so it's a good experience.  
 
Q. How big of an underdog did you consider yourself? 
 
 HARSH MANKAD: I mean, there was -- on paper he's ranked Top-15 and, I don't know, what my ranking is like 700 because I play only in the summers the professional tournaments. But it felt -- I went into the match thinking that I am going to win. I went with a positive attitude, so believing is important. Of course, no one expected me to win on the team, so there was no pressure on me; just told me to go out and enjoy myself. So I tried to do that.  
 
Q. How much pressure do you think he was feeling and did you notice it at all at any point? 
 
 HARSH MANKAD: First set he was definitely -- you could see it off the ground he wasn't really hitting out that much because he had a lot to lose. He's playing a guy he should beat. I have played guys in college and stuff, when you are supposed to win, so there's a different kind of pressure but I am sure he's used to it. He's on the Tour, so he's probably used to it.  
 
Q. How important was it for US to get this first win, do you think? 
 
 HARSH MANKAD: I think it is important. I think the tie is going to probably be decided, you know, in the singles, so it's probably a good start for them. But at the same time Leander is probably favored in this match. So if we can tie it up then things will be interesting.  
 
Q. How much more realistic is it for you to beat Blake? 
 
 HARSH MANKAD: Well, like I said, if I end up playing him in the fifth match I am just going to go out there and try to play one point at a time and not worry about, you know, if it comes down to that, it's just another tennis match and I am going to try to play my best.  
 
End of FastScripts.... 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT