VALERO TEXAS OPEN
April 15, 2011
Rich Beem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Well, Rich, man, 2-under Paragraph 70 in tough conditions like this. Good playing, man. I guess you're feeling pretty good.
 RICH BEEM: I am not feeling bad which has been quite the opposite of it lately. I feel pretty good out there, you know, able to kind of keep my focus out there which has been pretty helpful but with these conditions it ain't fun.

 Q. Tell me what that's been like for you, man, to finally be able to step on the golf course and go "Wait, there's no pain when I swing. This is weird."
RICH BEEM: It is weird. Yeah. You know, it's nice. Unfortunately, the pain lately hasn't been in my body much less my brain more than anything else. No. 
 I mean this golf course kind of captures your attention. You have to focus on every single hole and every single shot. There's a bunch of stuff going on out there, you know, and so, you know you really got to kind of really -- hate to say one shot at a time but literally if you're not thinking about that shot right then and there, it can come up and bite you, doesn't matter whether you got sand wedge in your hand or 4-iron. This golf course has got your attention all the way through.

 Q. So what is it, you take a couple Tylenol before you tee off and that helps you focus? 
 RICH BEEM: Can't really tell them what I'm taking right now. Keep it down low, brother.

 Q. Tell me about your game and the swing. Have you been changing anything or sticking with what you have?
 RICH BEEM: I'm sticking with what I have. I was actually pretty fortunate, I was in Dallas on Monday and got a chance to see my instructor for 30 minutes in between this outing I was doing. He kind of got me thinking about something a little bit different with my golf swing. I was trying to take it too far inside. Got it a little further outside on the way down. 
 Other than that, I haven't really seen him at all this year. Just kind of grinding away, hitting a lot of golf balls, you know, get on the driving range and hammering golf ball after golf ball. It's finally paying off.

 Q. Keep playing the way you're playing and you'll have to deal with seeing us a whole lot more, man.
 RICH BEEM: You haven't missed too many meals here, my brother.

 Q. Look who is talking.
 RICH BEEM: Easy, easy.

 Q. I know you lost some, too.
 RICH BEEM: Good seeing you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT