JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 17, 2008
Rich Beem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Rich, a bogey-free 65. 
 RICH BEEM: Yeah, I think my friend Steve Elkington gave me an unbelievable tip the other day. I've been really struggling with the speed of my putts for probably about the last ten years or so I've been on TOUR. 
 He just kind of said something that made a lot of sense to me, and so I really -- it really just kind of clicked, and it's always fun when he putt well out here.

 Q. Can you tell us what he said? 
 RICH BEEM: Just kind of how to judge speed a little bit better. It's just one of the things where I'm just trying to hit it to a different spot than I was before, so I'm just thinking about it more than anything else.

 Q. It's the time of the year when we talk about the bubble. Currently 128. Do you think about that, or do you just try to put that out of your mind?
 RICH BEEM: No, I don't think about that at all really. I'm out here to play golf. I play as good as I can, so that's what I -- I mean, I'm aware of it, but I'm not really thinking about it. If you start thinking about that you're in trouble.

 Q. (No microphone.)
 RICH BEEM: Yeah. 

 Q. On the ninth green you had to make a tough putt to save par. Tell me about it.
 RICH BEEM: Yeah, like I said earlier, Steve Elkington helped me out with some of my putting. It's been amazing. It's been very simple for me to kind of think about, and with my speed the last two days I've been absolutely amazed. 
 Yesterday on the 9th green I flubbed that because of my poor chipping, so I just -- time for me to (indiscernible) a little bit. I didn't hit a very good chip out of there. 
 Today I just kind of did the same thing as I did yesterday. I hit the ball better yesterday than I did today. I made three or four bombs each day. Those are always extremely helpful. I mean, you know, those are always nice to see going in, and I'm fortunate to be where I'm at.

 Q. Well, there's such a fine line between up at the top and not. I mean, that's usually the difference, isn't it, guys that drop a couple of bombs? 
 RICH BEEM: Well, yeah, you know, and especially this week. You just got to make putts on these greens. It's jsut a putting contest out here really this week much more so than anything else because the golf course is really good. 
 There's nothing out here, no wind, the pins have been actually been fairly easy, which I, you know, I think it's great for the PGA TOUR staff to do that. Let's make birdies. Who cares if we shoot 28-under par. That's the nature of the game. Hopefully they'll keep doing the same thing. 

 Q. Being the first one in, it's hard to kind of predict what you've accomplished by shooting a 65. Are you in the lead draft at least, or did you keep face? 
 RICH BEEM: I kept face. I'm thinking if I'm confident that's pretty good. I think the guys are going to take it deep. We're first in, but looking at the leaderboard, the guys are 13, 14 under par and they've got six or seven holes to go. I mean, forget about it. 

 Q. Course any easier or tougher then yesterday?
 RICH BEEM: Nah, it's about the same. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT