WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2008
Rich Beem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   RICH BEEM: I've been playing well. I haven't seen the scores show up. It's been awhile. I fought like hell, barely made the cut right on the number and had a real solid round yesterday and knew I could come out with something good today.   
 Every time I looked up the guys were making birdie after birdie after birdie. I kept my head down and kept plugging away. Thankfully I did. That last putt went in on 18, it was just nice, you know. It's always nice.  
  
  Q. We talked to a lot of players, I'm not sure they're honest, don't worry about the FedExCup points, they let it happen, whatever.   
 What about you? Be honest. You are. Did you know the point situation coming in?  
 RICH BEEM: Without a doubt. I needed to have a good week just to make it into the first round of playoffs. So, I got a flight that I'm going to miss going back to Austin right now because I'm going up to New York tomorrow now and, you know, I knew exactly where I was.   
 I knew I had to play my butt off just to make it up there. I didn't want to have four weeks off, you know, and I'm glad at least I got into the first one.   
 I've got a chance for the first one and second on, so on and so forth. I'm there now. You can't win unless you get in it.  
  
  Q. You're playing well so you have some good momentum.  
 RICH BEEM: I feel like I've been playing well. I've been working hard on my putting and chipping and finally the putting came around this week and ball striking. I'm ecstatic.  
  
  Q. Love New York?  
 RICH BEEM: I love New York, baby. Do it.  
  
  Q. Got to be gratifying from Friday on, you scored incredibly. This has got to feel good for you.  
 RICH BEEM: I struggled Thursday. I had like 38 putts or something like that. I barely shot even par the first round.   
 Came out the second round and I was a couple, 2, 3-under par and then gave a couple back and I was even par for the tournament with four holes to go on Friday, you know, looking to get home early and all of a sudden I eagled 15, birdied 16 and parred 17 and 18 to get into the weekend.  
 And yesterday was just a solid round of golf. I had a really good time playing with Joe Ogilvie. Today playing with Eric, just a good buddy.   
 Asked me on 13, "Where are you at the FedExCup points?" "Fight like hell to get in. If I look like I'm a little constipated it's because I'm puckering up pretty hard right now down the stretch."  
It was tough for me out there. There's nothing as rewarding as the finish this week as it is right now.  
  
  Q. Let me ask you about this course now. You've been pleased and what have you heard in the locker room?  
 RICH BEEM: Absolutely. This is fantastic. Hats off to the membership, Sedgefield Country Club. They're fantastic. The golf course is in fantastic shape, you know.   
 Fairways are tight. The greens thankfully this week were a little soft. I would expect next year they'll try to firm them up. Speed was fantastic. Hell of a golf course. The members should be proud.  
  
  Q. Do you think that it's kind of word of mouth thing that it's gotten out? I don't know what the deal is at Forest Oaks.  
 RICH BEEM: I'm sure it will. Guys knew about Forest Oaks and this and that and I think that, you know, Forest Oaks kind of ran its course but I'm really glad we came to this venue. The fans came out in large numbers as I read in the paper, 25,000 people per day, I think. That's absolutely awesome. And, you know, I look forward to coming back next year.  
  
  Q. Do you feel a little bit like last year you got on a roll in the playoffs and everything?  
 RICH BEEM: You know, kind of, sort of. It's kind of the same premise but right now it's totally different because I wasn't even in the playoffs.   
 I had to fight like hell just to get in the playoffs. For me right now I think this is actually a little bit more gratifying to actually make it and then now I can use this as a stepping stone to try to do something a little better going into the playoffs.  
 But, you know, certainly I'm playing well and my confidence there so I'm going to keep working at it and who knows?   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT