WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2008
Rich Beem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. 63. I think you figured out this golf course today.  
 RICH BEEM: Or it's figured out how to adapt to my game, one or the other. I don't know. I struggled the first day with the putter, kind of actually kind of lucky to be here today. I finished really strong yesterday and so I'm very fortunate to be sticking around for the weekend.  
 You know, I was hitting the ball pretty good, and putting it pretty good.  
  
  Q. Start the round with a bogey but then run-off four in a row. What happened?  
 RICH BEEM: Hit it actually too close to the green on the tee shot. Only had 65 yards to the front off a skinny lie. Kind of got it up there 30 feet. Decided I didn't want to two-putt, three-putt it, get some practice in.   
 I hit it close and reeled off a few good putts. Not the start I was looking for but obviously came up the board.  
  
  Q. Putted 15 off the edge of the green. Putt at 18, incredible downhill with a little slide at the end. These greens are something you don't see very many other places.  
 RICH BEEM: I saw them last week.  
  
  Q. Well, yeah.  
 RICH BEEM: Kind of got used to them. In fact, these are a lot easier to putt. A little slower than last week.   
 I kind of grew up on greens like this at El Paso, Country Club. It's not any big deal the me. I try to give a lot of putts. I didn't make it too hard on myself today.  
  
  Q. Last year you got hot right about this time. Got into the playoffs then made the nice run at Barclays and Deutsche Bank.   
 They changed the rules because of you. They made so it guys can make a move deep into the season. You're going to do it again.  
 RICH BEEM: Leave to it me to screw everything up, you know.  
 Yeah. I know I needed to play well and, you know, funny thing is I played well this summer. I made six cuts in a row and didn't have any quality finishes. I kind of put myself behind the 8 ball.   
 I'm still not panicking. It's a process and everybody goes through it, they get hot and cold. I'm starting to get warm again. Hopefully we can carry it on.  
  
  Q. You shoot a 63. You've seen the course. The leaders haven't teed off yet. Right now you're in the hunt. Lot of guys are going to make some birdies today.   
 How far will you be behind come Sunday morning? Do you care?  
 RICH BEEM: I don't care. I'll care tomorrow after I sign my scorecard and see where we end up. Instead of taking a ticket back to Austin, get a ticket up to New York and see some friends.  
  
  Q. Great run.  
 RICH BEEM: Thanks.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT