FORD CHAMPIONSHIP AT DORAL
March 4, 2006
Rich Beem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Nice way to close on 18, particularly with the way some of the other guys are closing on that hole.
RICH BEEM:  What a golf hole.  You've got 17 really hard holes or good holes and one unbelievably hard hole.  Unless you play in the conditions where we're playing it from where we're playing it, it's ridiculously hard out there.  It's fair, but it's hard.  You would not want a steady diet of that hole by any stretch.
Q.  Wind is blowing left to right?
RICH BEEM:  Left to right, hurting you just a little bit.  I only had 186 back in on my second shot is and I hit a pretty stout 5 iron in there which I hit normally over 200.

What a golf hole.  I'm so pleased to have finished the way I did.  It's going to make going back to the room tonight much sweeter.
Q.  Do you free wheel it tomorrow or how do you approach it?
RICH BEEM:  This week I've free wheeled it probably more than I have in the last six months or almost a year.  For some reason I started playing a little bit more conservatively and see if it helped my scores and obviously it didn't.

This week I might be free wheeling it more than I have in the past, just because I feel that much more comfortable about my golf swing now, too.  My putting is ridiculously good.  I'm going to go work on it again some more so I keep ingraining whatever the good things are that I have working right now.  The golf course is lending itself to    you have to make birdies on the holes that are downwind or the shorter holes and just hang on for dear life on some of the tougher ones.
Q.  In terms of trying to go out and trying to post a low number early, do you think that affects Tiger at all, to see somebody in front of him with a low number?
RICH BEEM:  I think the past record shows that not much affects Tiger.  Just try and shoot the lowest possible number you can and hopefully it will stick.  He has earned the right to be No. 1 in the world for a long time and he's going to be tough to beat.
Q.  A lot of people in the mix, so many guys that could jump up there.
RICH BEEM:  You know you've got to shoot a pretty low number tomorrow, or somewhat low number tomorrow depending on what mother nature throws at us as far as how they prepare the greens overnight.  You still have to go out and play the golf course.  It sounds cheesy but you can't worry about the guys around you.  It's not a match play situation, unless it comes down to the last nine holes.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT