DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 29, 2005
Rich Beem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Rich you didn't think much of your first visit to Carnoustie, I presume that one was a bit better?

RICH BEEM: That's actually a good way to play golf out there. We got out there and kind of beat the wind a little bit and it was a lot of fun. I hit the ball well and I putted great. I think your short game has really got save around here and today it did. I made a lot of good up and downs and while I didn't hole a lot of long putts but I hit them solid.
Q. Did you ever wan to come back here after '99?

RICH BEEM:  I did. You know that the course is going to play like that all the time and when you get in conditions that we did today then you just say - who?  The first time I saw it after '99 was last year. I just came out here blind and I have got to tell you that I was still a little gun-shocked pulling the club back because this golf course will do that to you. It might be set up a little bit shorter and easier but if the wind blows it is just brutal.
Q. Did the wind get up as you went around?

RICH BEEM:  It picked up in spots. It was about five miles per hour at the start of the day and then picked up and went down but it was pretty steady all day.
Q. Is this a good day to get Carnoustie out of the way?

RICH BEEM:  This is the perfect day to get Carnoustie out of the way! I think today they said that it was going to be one of the most benign days that we were going to have this week and I think that we played here on the third day last year, so getting it out of the way first gives you a sigh of relief. But you have still got to play St. Andrews which can be tough if it blows and so can Kingsbarns.
Q. What's brought you here this week?

RICH BEEM:  I just love playing links golf. I love it here. My partner and I talked about coming over here last year and I have no regrets -- I loved it. Then we said let's do it again next year and then he actually bailed on me so I called John who played in our group last year and told him that my partner had bailed on me and asked if he wanted to be mine and he said "sure". So right now our friend back home is a little upset that we are both leading -- that's for sure!
Q. How's the season been for you so far?

RICH BEEM:  It started pretty well and then I struggled in the middle part because my putting just killed me. Out of the 203 guys that they rank on the PGA Tour I was 201st, so right after the Open, at my wife's suggestion, I brought a friend over who has helped me with my short game in the past and I went to a completely different putter and it just clicked. I had been playing well but just was getting nothing out of my rounds because I was just putting so bad and that drains you because you feel that you have got to so close to the hole and that f you miss a green you're dead but now it doesn't feel that way at all an d it really frees up my game. I'm excited about playing golf again and it's starting to show.
Q. When did you change the putter?

RICH BEEM:  The day that I got back from The Open. I didn't even bring it back home with me -- it's actually sitting in a pub in St. Andrews. It's in the Castle Pub in two pieces!


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT