CHILDREN'S MIRACLE NETWORK CLASSIC
November 15, 2009
Rich Beem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Do you feel like you held up under the gun out there? Pretty good day, it looked like. 
 RICH BEEM: Yeah. I didn't hold up that well on Friday, that's for sure. But the rest of the week I did pretty good.
 You know, it was a battle, and I wasn't too sure -- it was very -- I must say it was about as odd as I've ever felt. I never expected myself to feel the way that I did, but I was really -- you know, when somebody tells you you can't do your job next year and you know you're so close, that's not such a good feeling. 
 So I didn't handle it very good on Thursday and Friday, I must admit. But then I talked to my instructor on Friday night for a few minutes, and you know, he kind of told me to think about some different things, and it worked out fantastic. I played fantastic this weekend. It was great.

 Q. Were you watching the board and were you aware at all that you were porpoising, for lack of a better term, with what other guys were doing?
 RICH BEEM: Yeah. I figured I was after yesterday, but no, I didn't have any bearing -- I had no idea what I was doing as far as that. 
 I figured that -- coming down the stretch actually, I really wasn't nervous at all, to be brutally honest with you. I felt pretty damn good about everything I was doing today, so I really wasn't thinking about it, to be brutally honest, and I certainly wasn't looking at any scoreboards either. 

 Q. Describe your mindset Thursday, Friday, and then after the confidence Friday night, mindset of the weekend. How were they different? Give us the before and after. 
 RICH BEEM: Yeah. You know, it was really weird, you know. I just don't know what it was, but I just -- kind of panic set in a little bit, I think. I think that's probably a pretty decent word, you know, but I was so fixated on keeping my job and thinking about going to Hawaii and thinking about playing the Bob Hope. I mean I just kept thinking about that. I was kind of fixated on that, and it was really -- I couldn't get my mind off of it. 
 And then my instructor, we talked, and he said, you know what, you don't play defensive golf very well. Go out and get on offense. Go out and make some stuff happen, make some birdies. And so I did. I just told myself to be on the offense. Don't do anything crazy. Don't do anything stupid, but play offensive golf and instead of defensive golf, and I certainly did on the weekend, and you can tell. I played a lot better?

 Q. What's his name?
 RICH BEEM: Cameron Doan, D-O-A-N. 

 Q. Back home?
 RICH BEEM: In Dallas, yeah. Preston Trail. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT