INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY QWEST
August 4, 2002
Rich Beem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







JOAN vT ALEXANDER:   Congratulations, Rich.  You had seven birdies and an eagle and you're standing on 18 with a nine-point lead.  Talk about maybe the longest of your life.
RICH BEEM:   I went out and I played, as far as I could tell, probably the best round of golf I've ever played under any conditions, any pressure situation, anything.  I hit the ball, with the exception of a couple tee shots  -- I don't know if I missed any greens.  I can't think of one. 
Yeah, I played as good as I possibly could all day long.  For the most part, all week long, with the exception of maybe a few spots on Friday when the wind was swirling and whatnot. 
But yeah, watching Steve have the opportunity to win was certainly one of the most stressful times of my life.  But that's the way this format goes.

Q.  You're standing back behind the green, you take your hat off I don't know how many times.  Can you talk about exactly what  that was like?
RICH BEEM:  Those used to be blond, and now I'm sure it's gray. 
When I was sitting there watching, I wasn't really thinking about anything.  I was thinking, hey, there's nothing I can do; that I played as good as I can.  It was out of my control.  So that was probably the most frustrating. 
But also, the most relieving thing was that, hey, I didn't have to go to a playoff if he makes or whatever, it's done, it's over with.  It's such a long and hard day.  I'm glad that everything turned out the way that it did.  You're right, it was the longest ten minutes of my life, but you know what, it was all worth it.  I'm at such a high right now, it's unbelievable.

Q.  Where were you when you heard the noise from 17? 
RICH BEEM:   I was  -- I don't know if I had hit my second shot yet or not on 18.  I think I did.  I think I hit my second shot on 18 and I was walking up and then I saw David Feherty walking up on the right and I put three fingers up and I said, "Did Lowery make three?"  And he goes, no.  He said Lowery made  2. 
And I was like, "Reeeaaally?"  So all of a sudden my nine-point lead goes down to one, and then I somehow gagged it in from  -- the last putt lipped in, and it wasn't like it was center cup.  But that's just the nature of this game. 

Q.  What were your thoughts on Steve's putt?  Did you have the feeling he would make it or miss?
RICH BEEM:   Honestly, I didn't have a feeling one way or the other.  I didn't  -- I knew he had a great opportunity to make it, but I honestly  -- I mean, most of the time you get a gut feeling somebody is going to do something great.  Like Tiger makes the putt at the PGA to get in the playoff with Bob May, you get that sort of gut feeling, but I didn't have any gut feeling.  I honestly was just numb.  I was just watching.  I looked at the hole and it looked like it just burned the top edge but didn't go in. 
I was grateful, relieved.  I can't even run through all of the emotions that were going through my body at that time.  I was a little bit surprised, yes. 

Q.  How did the spectators here compare to your win at Kemper a few years back?
RICH BEEM:   I think they are on two different levels.  The Kemper victory came out of completely nowhere, for everybody involved, including myself to a point.  I had not been playing very well, obviously, my rookie year.  I was working as a club pro for a couple of years, really came out as far as playing-wise and sort of pressure situations on TOUR.  I had no experience to fall back on, just small stuff that I played in where 5,000 was first prize and that was huge.
So this one was a little different, knowing that some of the big players were behind me.  Just focusing on making as many points as I possibly could, but I think this is a little  -- to get the victory, I could savor it a little bit more, because I remember a lot more of it than Kemper.  Because Kemper, I was just focusing focus, focusing.  I can remember most of it and I can savor it, and I can build on what happened today, this week, and take it maybe on to another tournament. 

Q.  You were pretty pumped up leaving 17.  When that putt went in, did you think the tournament was over?
RICH BEEM:   Well, I can say I actually did.  I was counting all of the numbers in my head.  I really honestly thought that I was going to win the tournament. 
But I had to slow myself down.  I was going so hard, so fast.  I mean, I'm surprised that I didn't fall down because I was racing.  Luckily we waited on the group in front of us to hit their second shot on 18, so I could slow myself down.  And Brooks hit first, which was great and that really slowed me down.  I thought about what club I wanted to hit and I made the best swing of the day with a driver that I possibly could.

Q.  Can you talk about the delay, did you lose any momentum?
RICH BEEM:   I lost a little bit of momentum, as far as mindset goes.  I don't think swing-wise or anything like that I lost momentum.  But I think mind-set-wise it's hard to come back out because you have a good feeling for the greens.  I was rolling it beautifully and I lost a little bit of the speed.  On 14, I hit the first one way by and I missed left my next two birdie chances short where I had really gotten almost everything in the hole before then. 
So I was a little weary of the speed of the greens, but obviously the putt on 17 was picture perfect.  And even on 18 it was a little bit slower going down the hill than I thought, because I had a putt on Friday that was just lightning soft.

Q.  Can you give an idea of what it means to have the win? 
RICH BEEM:   The money is huge.  I'm not going to lie to you. $870,000 that's a huge chunk of change.  But I think the victory, I get two and a half, four years exemption.  That gives me more confidence, get back to the winner's category and everything else that goes victory.  I don't think it's just the money.  I think it's everything that goes with it.  It's just so satisfying.  It's not just  -- everybody focusing on the money, leading money winner.  There's just so much more, and now I've just won one tournament, now I've won two. 
There's a guy back in Washington D.C., the Washington Post that -- excuse my language  -- he can kiss my ass.  He told me I didn't belong on TOUR and didn't deserve it after my victory at Kemper and he really irritated me. 
I don't know who it was, but he really smoked me.  So that guy can kiss my butt.  (Laughter.) I'm sorry.  (Laughs) I'm not going to lie. 

Q.  You hit a huge drive on 10, with a sand wedge coming in.  Do you remember the number coming in?
RICH BEEM:   We had adjusted, it was 113 hole, like 125 without the adjustment, but 113 adjusted, and it was just a smooth  -- it was a good sand wedge and I hit it just past the pin on that slope to bring it back, perfectly. 

Q.  On 10, you birdied it the last two days, and it was one of the toughest holes in the tournament.  Even though it was not in the stretch, it certainly set the pace for the back nine that you were not going to come out and play conservatively.  Did you go out both days trying to go out there aggressively?
RICH BEEM:   I tried to go out to this golf course aggressively each day.  That's why Mickelson has 48 points every year, or seems like the winner always has a bunch of points.  Because if you are not aggressive out here guys can pass you by in a hurry. 
Obviously Lowery is a perfect example.  Eagle, bogey, double-eagle, or birdie, eagle, bogey, double-eagle, par finish, he comes from ten back to within three and I extend my lead and then he's right on top of me.  Holy cow, if you're not aggressive out here, it's totally unlike any other TOUR event where par is most of the time your friend coming down the last nine holes.  Here, if you're not making birdies, you're not going to get past, I'm sorry.

Q.  Can you talk about your back problem, what you did this morning before you played the round and what happened afterwards? 
RICH BEEM:   Yeah, I came out to the golf course really early this morning.  Probably about two hours before my tee time.  Actually probably about two and a half hours before my tee time and went into the HealthSouth van.  My back is a little suspect.  
About ten years ago now, I had an infection in my pleural cavity and the doctors went in and took out about an inch and a half section of the rib, and what happens is every once in awhile the rib cage shifts just ever so slightly, just hitting nerves and making the back uncomfortable.  So I felt that coming on.  I still feel it right now, but I don't care. 
But I felt it this morning so I went in and got worked on for about an hour and 20 minutes with the guys in the HealthSouth van.  And I can't thank those guys enough.  I'm  going to buy them dinner, whatever.  They stretched me out a bunch of different ways.  They actually adjusted me a little bit, a electrical stim., Ice, biofreeze on.  I was looking for biofreeze during the rain delay because I could feel it coming on again. 
When I sit around and don't do anything, that's what it kind of acts up.  It was really pretty close out there on 13, once I started walking around on 14, 15 it was more comfortable.

Q.  I heard you had quite a celebration after you won at Kemper.  Can you tell us how you celebrated then and how you will celebrate now?
RICH BEEM:   You know, back then I was a rookie I was young, 28.  Not like I'm old now, but 28, totally out of the blue, and I don't want to say crazy, but it was like winning the lottery.  I mean, I came out of nowhere, didn't do anything really stupid, like buying a couple cars or anything like that, but I just spent a lot of money, whatever I felt like. 
Now I've got a wife, so she's going to spend the money whenever she feels like it  -- no, I'm just kidding.  But it's different.  Like I've already made over 800,000 so far this year.  I've already secured my card, so the money is already in the bank. 
I'm going to go back home and actually I'm looking forward  -- I've got a new big TV, 61-inch plasma.  I told my wife, I'm ready to go home.  I'm going to go play pool with my buddies, have a couple adult beverages, do whatever.  And Thursday we're going to have a party at El Paso Country Club signifying J.P.'s win and my win, and that's going to be  -- that might get a little crazy.  That celebration might get a little crazy. 

Q.  You mentioned the party coming up on Thursday with J.P.  PGA is coming up also in a couple of weeks.  Are you going to be recovered in time?
RICH BEEM:   Absolutely.  Just a one-night deal.  I'm looking forward to the PGA.  I'm going to get up on Sunday afternoon.  Playing a practice round early Monday morning with Pat Perez and going to see about Tuesday, see how we feel about the golf course. 
I'll be focussed in.  Before in years past, after my first victory, I wasn't focused on the next  -- I skipped the Memorial, played Memphis, but I was not focused that week.  The PGA being a major, I'm going to be pretty focused.  I'm excited about it. 

Q.  Can you walk us through  your career; you gave up the game early? 
RICH BEEM:   I followed my fiancee to Seattle and was actually burnt out with golf.  Really didn't want to have anything to do with it.  Just wanted to get away for a while and I really thought that being a club pro was the direction I wanted to go  -- being in the just blue-collar job, whatever, just working. 
After about eight months of that, I got burnt out of that.  Her and I didn't work things out and I decided to come back to golf because golf is my one true passion.  It's the only thing I really am good at. 
My customer service skills -- excuse my language -- suck.  The reason I'm not in the golf business anymore is the head pro told me:  "You're playing good right now.  I'll give you a couple choices.  Quit to go play golf for a living or you can just quit."  (Laughter.)
So I decided to quit and go play golf.  But, yeah, golf is my one true passion. 

Q.  Could you tell us what you and Lowery shared there at the end? 
RICH BEEM:   I just looked him in the eye and I was just smiling.  He was, too.  I'm like, it doesn't get any better than that, does it?  That was great playing.  He congratulated me on the same thing.  It was wild.  I mean, I tell you, besides Nicklaus and Watson doing the last two rounds of the British Open, I don't know of any round where it's just gotten completely hairy like it did today.  It was  -- I've real either way, unbelievable.
I wasn't worried about him holing out another one, but certainly when you have that sort of momentum.  And Steve being a veteran out here and being a winner of a couple events and obviously playing really well, put yourself within 12, 15 feet, obviously better than average chance he's going to make it.  Fortunately for me, it didn't, but unfortunately it didn't.

Q.  Did you look at some of the names out there in contention:  Els, Norman, Garcia, did you think people were betting on you? 
RICH BEEM:   Yeah, right.  (Laughs) whatever.  This morning, I forget the Denver Times, "Sergio is the Guy to Watch," and that's fine.  He is.  He's the guy to watch.  The big names are definitely the guys to watch. 
Honestly, I'm a little surprised.  I mean, I am but I'm not.  I know that I'm capable of doing this, but those guys are the big name, the big guns and they play well under pressure. 
I'm certainly not a household name.  I seem to be somewhat of a fan favorite which is nice, but I mean, to be honest with you, I enjoy watching those guys play.  I loved watching Ernie win the Open.  I love watching the guys play, Sergio especially.
Last Monday, that Battle of Bighorn, that was some good golf.  Did you guys watch that?  That was cool. 

Q.  Inaudible?
RICH BEEM:   Yeah, I can say this now and laugh about it, but when he (J.P. Hayes) won last week, it was really weird.  I don't want to say irritated was the right word, but it bothered me that he won and  -- he had been having an okay year, made close to 400,000, but he was playing well going into last week and then goes and he wins.  I was sitting there and watching him and I'm like, man, I've been playing really consistent all year and can't seem to do it.  And he just goes out  -- his final round last week as awesome.  He missed one green, I think, hit all fairways, and that was fun to watch.  That was really awesome.
But it also sparked me.  I got over it by Monday and I came out, I was focused, I was ready to go.  Honestly, you can't think, "This might be my week."  Winning just happens.  Except for Tiger, Phil, Sergio; they expect to win, but I don't expect to win.  I enjoy getting in the hunt.  If it happens, it happens, great. 
I certainly had in the back of my mind, J.P. winning last week and that was a big insight. 

Q.  Can you talk about your celebration? 
RICH BEEM:   You blow off steam after you win.  You sweat everything out. 
I don't know, I was just very conservative walking down with the Vickers and all of the gentlemen with the green jackets.  I saw the flagsticks still standing and usually the customers come out, take the flag out, and I just started pulling out the flagsticks and waving them around like an idiot  -- checking it out, throw it in the bunker, I don't know.  This is only the second time this has ever happened.  I have no idea what to do.  But I was having fun, that's for sure. 
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:   Can you go through your card.
RICH BEEM:   I had a 6-iron about six inches on 4 for birdie.
8-iron to about 12 feet on 5 and made it.
Hit it in the bunker on 6.  Left bunker sand wedge out to about six feet and made that.
7, down the hill and hit wedge, just hit on the fringe, spun back to about ten feet off the green and made that from off the green, which is a huge boost.  I putted off there.
And then 9, I hit 3-wood off the tee and then I hit 9-iron from I don't even know how far, I totally missed the shot actually.  I was trying to get it past the hole and run it back. 
Then hit a huge drive, hit sand wedge in to about six feet and made that. 
12, hit driver, left.  Hit sand wedge from about 113 adjusted to about 15 feet right and made that.
And then the eagle on 17, hit 3-wood, 6-iron.  6-iron from 186 adjusted, it was about 15 feet past the hole and I made that. 

Q.  You had a ten-point lead.  Were you surprised  at that?
RICH BEEM:   I was a little surprised it was that large.  I wasn't that surprised because the pin placements  -- they were not easy. 
But like I said, I was just  -- coming down, especially starting with holes 12 through 18, there's birdie possibility on every hole.  If you look at the finish yesterday by the guys, I mean, everybody just had to leave for a couple of holes and everybody just kind of ran right by me the last three holes.  And then obviously today, the guys finished pretty strong.  But Steve comes up and almost runs right by me again. 
So I don't think there's really any lead safe here unless you're in the final group and you have a four-stroke group going into 18.




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT