U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 17, 2019
Maxwell Moldovan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So, Max, was there a little bit of emotion going today with your teammate?  
MAXWELL MOLDOVAN: Yeah, it was really cool.  I mean, odds of something like that happening, two kids from the same high school.  I don't think there are two kids from the same high school playing in this tournament, let alone get to play each other in the first round of match play, so it's pretty special.   
 Q.  How far do you guys go back?  
MAXWELL MOLDOVAN: We've been competing with each other since we were nine, ten years old, so it's been a long time.   
 Q.  Are you close friends or do you socialize?  How does that work?  
MAXWELL MOLDOVAN: We're friends.  We don't play together every day, nothing like that.   
 Q.  Sure.  
MAXWELL MOLDOVAN: But we root for each other, I would say.   
 Q.  Was there a moment where you kind of turned to each other and said, Man, I can't believe we're playing each other?  
MAXWELL MOLDOVAN: Yeah, I sent Cade a text last night and I was like, Wow, what are the odds of that?  Let's have fun tomorrow.   
 Q.  What did he say?  
MAXWELL MOLDOVAN: Yeah, good luck.  Should be fun.   
 Q.  Let's get to the match.  Pretty tight there for a while.  What do you think the difference was?  
MAXWELL MOLDOVAN: I would say hitting fairways.  After he was 1-up and I kind of turned the tide and went 1-up, he missed a few fairways that allowed me to just make par and win holes.   
That's how I've been so successful in the match play in the last few weeks, is just hitting fairways and greens and kind of wearing my opponent out.  Especially if you get in the fairway every time.  Got to make them a little mad.   
 Q.  Was there an up and down today that you think was critical to winning the match?  
MAXWELL MOLDOVAN: I missed a short birdie putt on 13 that would've put me 2-up.  And then 14 I hit, just like I said, I hit fairway, green, and he missed it right and made bogey.   
So that one was probably the change, yeah.   
 Q.  And then 16 you made a par to close it out.  
MAXWELL MOLDOVAN: Yep.   
 Q.  How did that happen?  
MAXWELL MOLDOVAN: Just hit 2-iron in the fairway, 9-iron to about 15 feet.  Cade hit it in the fairway as well, but he missed his short-sided right of the green and didn't hit a very good chip and made bogey.   
 Q.  Yeah.  This is you're first USGA championship.  
MAXWELL MOLDOVAN: Yep.   
 Q.  What were your expectations coming in here, especially after win is the Ohio Amateur?  
MAXWELL MOLDOVAN: I definitely expected a lot of myself, definitely to make it to match play.  I mean, match play is a game where anything can happen.  Doesn't matter who you play.  You can play good and lose and you can play bad and win.   
It's what you do against your opponent.   
 Q.  Are you starting to feel comfortable with the course and the format of this championship?  
MAXWELL MOLDOVAN: Yeah.  This is I think my sixth time playing out here, so definitely getting familiar with it, what clubs to hit off tees, where not to miss it, where to hit it, that kind of stuff.  So, yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT