NBA DRAFT 2017
June 22, 2017
Jonathan Isaac
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JONATHAN ISAAC: I am super excited to be picked by Orlando.  It's really -- the moment was so fast.  The dream has come true, and now it's about getting to Orlando and focusing on how can I make the team better, how can I come in and be of assistance.   
 Q.  Jonathan, you're familiar with the region.  How nice is it to come back to Florida and be in a situation with Orlando and be the first draft pick of this new front office that's had a big track record of success?  
JONATHAN ISAAC: Yeah, it feels great.  I know about their track record, and I know they know about turning teams around, and I feel blessed that they thought that I could be a part of that.   
 Q.  You were the first player to be drafted from a state that doesn't have any income tax.  Did your agent give you a high five on that and did any other players express some envy about this?  
JONATHAN ISAAC: Honestly I thought about that before, but I haven't thought about that tonight, so thank you for putting that back in my head.  It feels great.   
 Q.  What do you make of this Orlando core, a lot of young players there, are you excited to play alongside them?  And what's your first impression of the team?  
JONATHAN ISAAC: My first impression is that we're young and we just got younger.  There's a lot of room for growth, and there's a lot of things to do to grow.  Just getting in and seeing what I can do, seeing that I can be the hard worker that comes in and doesn't have an agenda, is humble and can just do whatever he has to do.   
 Q.  John Hammond has had success with guys with a lot of length, Giannis, Thon Maker.  How excited are you to pick his brain a little bit and go somewhere where they're used to length and wingspan?  
JONATHAN ISAAC: It feels great.  I feel like I'm coming home to somebody who knows who I am and what I'm capable of and where I can be in the future.  I think that's huge because my progression is going to be different than a lot of other players, and I know I have a lot of untapped potential, and I feel like I went to the perfect team to untap it.   
 Q.  Speaking of coming home, to come back home to New York City, to be drafted after spending the first 10 years of your life in the Bronx, sentimental for you tonight?  How do you feel about that?  
JONATHAN ISAAC: It feels great.  It is sentimental.  It honestly seems like the perfect story, coming home to get drafted to go back to where you were.  It definitely feels like it's a story written before I was born.   
 Q.  Jonathan, you recently had a growth spurt where you grew six inches.  Do you think that growth spurt has really helped you in spite of your size right now to maintain your guard skills?  
JONATHAN ISAAC: Yeah, it's definitely helped me.  It's made it harder to maintain my guard skills because I was shorter back then, but it's opened other doors, like being able to be a versatile defender and block shots, move my feet, stuff like that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT