QUICKEN LOANS NATIONAL
July 31, 2015
Ryo Ishikawa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  It's been a special week already for Ryo Ishikawa.  Gets an ace on Thursday and then you get that bomb on the 18th hole.   Actually, the final of three consecutive birdies as you finished your round.  How special was that final stretch for you?  RYO ISHIKAWA: It was a great.  It wasn't a great round through like 15 but I hit it great 9-iron into 16, par 3.  It was great shot and I mean I wasn't -- I wasn't comfortable for my iron shot but after 16 tee shot and 17 second shot and obviously 18 putting, it was a great three shots and looking forward to the next two days, yeah.   Q.  What have you been doing well in your opinion so far this week and what you need to do in the final two days to ultimately achieve your goal of winning on the PGA TOUR?  RYO ISHIKAWA: I'm just trying to maybe couple more under each day.  Like my goal this weekend is like 15-under, 16 under.  That's my goal.  And I don't know for other guy like Rickie, I think he's got to play great two days maybe but I'm not sure what the victory number but I just get focused on my number and it's 15-under. So, I'm just here focused on that number.   Q.  Well done so far.  We'll see you over the weekend.  RYO ISHIKAWA: Thanks.   Q.  Ryo, what a great way to finish your 2nd Round, three birdies.  Talk us through those.  RYO ISHIKAWA: It wasn't perfect round through 15 hole but the last three hole was perfect and especially the 16th tee shot, I hit a 9-iron, nice cut and almost Hole-In-One so it was a great moment, and 17 birdie putt and 18 birdie putt, it was kind of like surprise.  So, surprise putt but that was a nice finish, yeah.   Q.  You speak of perfect, you were close to Hole-In-One on 16 today.  You made one on 4 yesterday.  Club, feelings, tell the us about the one.  RYO ISHIKAWA: Today for my iron was not so perfect, not great but the last two shots like 16 tee shot and 17 second shot was a nice iron shot so I just keep doing -- I just want to keep doing that next two days.   Q.  You speak of the next two days, do you have a number or a strategy in mind or what you think might be necessary here to get yourself near the top of the leaderboard?  RYO ISHIKAWA: You know, I'm still 135, 140 on FedExCup so I need something like good number, good points.  My goal is going to be 15-under, 16 under but I'm not sure how many guys coming up so play well the next two days.  So I just want to focus on my number.   Q.  Enjoy it.  Good luck on the weekend.  RYO ISHIKAWA: Thank you  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT