PUERTO RICO OPEN PRESENTED BY SEEPUERTORICO.COM
March 6, 2013
Ryo Ishikawa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  NELSON SILVERIO:   We'd like to welcome Ryo Ishikawa into the media center at the Puerto Rico Open presented by seepuertorico.com. 
Ryo thanks for joining us.   Your runner‑up finish last year almost took the title. 
Why don't you give us your thoughts on your game coming into this week and maybe talk about last year and how close you came to winning the tournament.
RYO ISHIKAWA:   Yeah, first of all, I'm very glad to be came back here.   I'm very excited right now and looking forward to tomorrow's pairing actually with (indiscernible) and George that won last year.
So it's going to be a nice, good week for me.   I'm very comfortable and I'm swinging clubs pretty well right now, so, yeah, I'm ready to play.   Yeah.
NELSON SILVERIO:   Great.   Thank you.   We'll open it up to questions.   English, Japanese, or Spanish. 
Just raise your hand and fire away. 

Q.   How comfortable do you feel with the golf course this time?
RYO ISHIKAWA:   Yeah, the golf course is in great shape again this year.   A little bit of rain a few days ago, but still great, comfortable condition.   Going to be greens faster.   More getting faster.   The wind condition is getting more stronger, I think actually. 
But today it's pretty calm wind.   Last year was much stronger than now.   Last year I hit I think 12‑under on four days, but this year my goal is also 12, 13, 14‑under. 
So I'm going to try to hit 4‑under and 5‑under each day. 
I'm happy with that.   Yeah. 
NELSON SILVERIO:   Do you usually have a target score when you start to play a tournament? 
RYO ISHIKAWA:   Yeah, each day, yeah.   In the morning, I do always imagination and training for the today's 18 hole.   Before the start, I already play 18 on my head, yeah, in my head. 
So, yeah, I'm ready to play. 

Q.   Recently a lot of the younger players have had great success, how does that make you feel as a young player?
RYO ISHIKAWA:   Actually, I never meet Russell Henley, but I know he's huge talent.   I just meet (indiscernible) yesterday and also last week had some conversation.   Yeah, he's my good friend also.   The age also 24, 25, something, so. 
Yeah, I just 21 right now; 22 I would turn 22 in September this year.   But it doesn't matter any age, how old.   I mean, you know, this is not amateur play.   This is not junior.   Because there so much professional golfer and just one or two amateur guys. 
But I always thinking how can I win the tournament, about victory, every week. So it doesn't matter about the age in my head. 

Q.   You were runner-up last year, how did that impact your career? 
RYO ISHIKAWA:   Yeah, the last year's runner‑up was actually best of my career, so was amazing experience for me.   Much more comfortable right now because of last year. 
So I know how can I win this year, how to play the course and how to make course management.   Yeah, I'm very excited right now for the first round.   I'm going to try to win, and hopefully never get runner‑up ever again.   (Laughter.)
NELSON SILVERIO:   Questions?   You all set?   All right.   Thank you, Ryo.
RYO ISHIKAWA:   Thank you very much. 
NELSON SILVERIO:   Good luck.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT