WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 22, 2012
Ryo Ishikawa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  LAURA HILL:   We'd like to welcome Ryo Ishikawa to the interview room, who just dispatched Bill Haas.   A comeback on the last couple of holes.   Just give us your impression of the match and how you turned it around.
RYO ISHIKAWA:   Through the first 13 holes, it had been really tough and I wasn't playing that well.   But the last five holes, I was able to compete with the opponent. 

Q.   What was the best shot you hit today?
RYO ISHIKAWA:   It was the birdie putt on the 17th.

Q.   What iron did you hit?
RYO ISHIKAWA:   It was a 7‑iron, 174 yards, maybe 25 feet.

Q.   Once you got going there toward the end, what role did momentum play in your last five holes?   Could you feel yourself getting more confident in match play is that the name of the game?
RYO ISHIKAWA:   Well the only thing I could do was to be myself, and that's the only thing to be done.   No misses were allowed you in that situation.

Q.   How important is it in match play to respond to that pressure?
RYO ISHIKAWA:   Well, it is different from stroke play.   You will either win or lose or square.   And my bad tendency is to not be able to shake off the previous results.   But I like match play very much.

Q.   The 17th hole has been good to you.   Do you remember who you played when you hit from the bunker to make birdie?   Do you remember who that was? 
RYO ISHIKAWA:   Two years ago? 

Q.   Yes. 
RYO ISHIKAWA:   Maybe Michael Sim.

Q.   You've gone 20 holes, 18 holes, right to the end.   Does this make you feel older, like 25 or something? 
RYO ISHIKAWA:   It was really tough.   Maybe more than myself Bill felt pressure, not comfortable playing.   Especially I am ranked lower in the World Golf ranking, and being a first match of the week, but as far as the match it worked better for me. 

Q.   Coming into the match Haas had the big victory last week.   Before the match started what did you think your chances were and how did you steer yourself for playing against someone who had such a great victory last week?
RYO ISHIKAWA:   Well, if we played on a different course, maybe there was no chance for me to win the match today.   I think this course is suited for me.   I played here, I was able to make it a match against a higher ranked player. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT