WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 7, 2011
Ryo Ishikawa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Just give us your thoughts on today. Good round, but not quite.   
 RYO ISHIKAWA: I was able to play well to be at least on the top for a moment in the first half of the game today. I think the 14th and 15th hole was the hole that separated everything for today.   
  
  Q. Could you talk a little bit about your confidence level going into next week and what this does for you?   
 RYO ISHIKAWA: I have a pretty big tournament coming up next week. Hopefully I'll be able to play with Adam in the elimination games there, meaning before the finals. And in the long run, I would like to be able to play out there for a championship.   
  
  Q. Did you learn anything about yourself today?   
 RYO ISHIKAWA: The reason I lost today was because of the bogeys, obviously. I think it has to do with my putting and my approach shots, the technical side of that.   
  
  Q. It looks like you earned enough money now to be a special temporary member of the PGA TOUR. Have you given any thought to that, what you might do?   
 RYO ISHIKAWA: I don't know any of the details at this point, but I know that there's a big game coming up for me next week, and hopefully we'd like to play well there in order to be a part of the PGA member. We'd like to play 100 percent in that tournament, in the coming tournament.   
  
  Q. It's going to be very hot next week. It was hot today, but it will be even hotter next week. How will you cope with that heat?   
 RYO ISHIKAWA: It has to do a lot with the food. You know, the hot temperature takes away the appetite a whole lot, so I think I should force myself to eat a whole lot in order to be able to play well on the course.   
  
  Q. Do you think it's your putting that you will be concentrating on for next week? You said it was a little bit not there today. Is that what you have to improve on for next week?   
 RYO ISHIKAWA: Basically I'm looking to do exactly what I've been doing this week. As of now, to me there's not something particular that I need to specifically be working on, so just go on and do what I did this week.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT